ON THE AFFINITIES OF THE SIRENIANS.
BY THEODORE GILI M.D. PH.D.
There exist among the placental mammals several welldefined groups combined together and differentiated from all others by the common character of atrophy or entire want of the posterior members as well as pelvis a pisciform shape and adaptation for habitual life in the water.
These common coordinated characters have been supposed by most zoologists to indicate close affinity.
A few however have considered them to be an insufficient index and recognizing that one of these groups was more isolated than the others and its members provided with a less abnormal skull and with a dentition and intestinal canal adapted for a vegetable regimen have approximated that group to the Pachyderm Ungulates.
Such zoologists seem insensibly to have been influenced more especially by teleological considerations adaptation for vegetable food and complexity of the intestinal tract and size.
Appreciating the vague and very vague similarit' between the groups in question the Sirenians and the hoofed mammals coincident with a comparatively large size and thus contrasting with the other herbivorous mammals and further struck with the agreement of the Sirenians with the hoofed mammals Pachjderms distinguished by the negative character of want of a compound stomach they have combined the two into one order.
Unwilling however to confess or even admit to self the influence of such considerations the d p
'iori conclusion reached has been attempted to be substantiated by a selection of characters supposed to be common to forms of the two groups while no exclusive diagnosis has been framed for the common group.
But so strong has been the prepossession in favor of the view of the affinities of the group in question that it permeates and is felt in systems where it is not avowed and tliis influence is evident in works of the latest writers.
Probability of Common Origin.
It is far more credible in the opinion of the author that the ordinary Cetaceans and the Sirenians are derivatives from a common original stock a generalized gyrenccphalic type whose form had alreadj been modified for continued aquatic life by the reduction or atroph of the hinder members and that the existing orders represent the extreme specialization in diverse directions from such a common type tban that the two forms have independently diverged from two ambulatorial tDcs.
Even admitting the utmost differences that have been urged between the two forms and the respective affinities of each to other forms all such are still so indisputably related inter se as alone to suggest suspicions and doubts as to independent origin.
Furtliermore it would appear more probable that such divergence had commenced from a type whose toes were separated and spreading than from one whose digits and corneous appendage had already become specialized as hoofs  the difficulties indeed incident to the view of the development from a hoofed mammal of a mutilate form are so great and obvious that reasons stronger than any yet given will doubtless be required before a general belief in such development or in the very intimate affiuit of the Sireuians and Pachyderms prevails.
It must of course be granted that the pisciform mammals are the derivatives from quadrupedal types for the evidence as to the line of descent from the lowest quadrupedal mammal to the higher is unassailable therefore the terms embryonic' or synthetic are inapplicable to the pisciform mammals  on the contrary those mammals must be considered as in the highest degree developed and specialized t3qes and if the extent of specialization in miy direction were a true test of rank their claims to the first rank would be indisputable.
Character op Progenitor.
As to the common progenitor of tlie Sirenians and Cetaceans the evidence is by no means as clear as would be desirable.
We have in the Pinnipediaa type that has been in a liigh degree compared with ordinary quadrupeds specialized for aquatic life.
The characters common to that type and the Fissipede carnivores ' Prof. Agassiz lias been able to see in tlie mutilate mammals  enibryonic types considering the Cetaceans to be embryonic carnivores and the Sirenians to be genuine  embryonic types of Pachyderms.
See Proc.
Boston Soc.
Nat.
Hist. iii.
p. 309 1850.
264 PROOEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OP and especially such nonadaptive characters as the union of the scaphoid and lunar bones indicate their community of origin and point to the derivation of Pinnipcdias from a specialized carnivorous stock.
The tendencies of the specialization in the Pinnipediaas the great reduction iu size of the milk teeth the decreasing differentiation of the other teeth and the modifications of the form are towards the Cete  the extinct Zeuglodonts and especially the Basilosauridae even indicate the possibility if not probability of the derivation of the Cete from a Pinniped avus
At the most however it can onlbe claimed that no quadrupedal t3pe now exists or has left its remains so far as is 3'et known which so nearly fulfils the conditions of intervention between ordinary quadrupeds and mutilates as the Pinnipedia
It is possible however that the resemblances in question may be adaptive and it must not be forgotten that similar tendencies but in a very minor degree are exhibited by a specialized lutrine type Enh3dris or sea otter.
A careful comparative study of the detailed anatomy and especiall' of the brain in the generalized Educabilia and the Pinnipeds Sirenians and Cetaceans might go far to dissipate the doubts now involving the question and determine the truth one way or another.
It appears however to be demonstrable from what is already known of the brain and the organization generally that the mutilates are at least the oflfshoots from the same common progenitor as the carnivores and other Educabilia  and in view of the near relations even within the limits of the superorder it appears also to be much more probable that the two orders of mutilates have been derived from a common mutilate progenitor than that they have diverged independently from two different types of quadrupeds within such circumscribed limits.
Nor is there any cogent evidence apparently against the descent of the Sirenians from a mutilate descendant of a protoinniped ancestor either as to adaptation for a vegetable regimen or dentition.
The autlior has therefore felt obliged after mature reflection to adopt the views current among most of the special students of the mammals that the Cetaceans and Sirenians are orders more nearly related to each other than is either to auy other order and ' The author has not access to the material at present for such an investigation.
that consequent'
they should be approximated to each other in contrast with any forms to which the should be next placed wherever that may be.
In this respect as already indicated he is at variance with some most learned and accomplished naturalists who have expressed decided views to the contrary it being insisted by them that the Sirenians are most nearly related to the Pachyderm Ungulates and even by some of them that those forms belong to the same special order as the Proboscideans Hyracoids Perissodactyle Ungulates and Omnivora  in other words the Cuverian order Pachydermata modified by the addition to it of the Sirenians.
Relations of Sirenians.
The affinities of the Sirenians and Ungulates have been urged with special emphasis the view repeatedly reiterated in the United States and even generally' adopted by all but special students of mammals and not even excluding all of them and in one of our latest and most approved textbooks on zoology it is remarked  The socalled Herbivorous whales which Cuvier gi'ouped with the Cetaceans are now placed with the Pach'derms with which they undoubtedly belong.
It is therefore by no means a labor of supererogation to examine into the evidence which has seemed to men justh' celebrated for learning and acuteness to justify such a combination.
The best epitome of the arguments in English in favor of snch collocation has been published by Dr. S. Kneeland in a special memoir and for that reason it has been subjected to examination and analysis the data classified no distinction being made as to value or subordination in the memoir and their value weighed.
It may be added before proceeding to this analysis that Dr. J. F. Brandt has also compared at much length the characteristics of the Sirenians with those of the Ungulatesbut he has exhibited their differences as well as certain resemblances and has indeed been much more successful in the former portion of ' The Manatus not a Cetacean but a Pachyderm  by S. Kneeland Jr. of Boston Mass.
Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
Thhd Meeting I80O pp.
4247.
2 Symbols
Sirenologicaj 1868 pp.
lGG304 also pp.
83232G.
18 his work than the latter.
He nevertheless regards the Sirenians as most nearly related to the Pachjderms although entitled to ordinal distinction and even more distinct from tlie Pach3derms than are the Cetaceans from the Carnivores Avhich are connected hy intermediate forms e.g.
Zeuglodonts Seals and Seaotters in this case of value and indicating affinity.'
The analysis of the cited memoir gives the following results  1st.
Characters supposed to differentiate the Manatee from the Cetaceans.
These may be arranged under tliree categories viz a.
Those really differentiating the Manatee from all the Cetaceans to wit the form of the vertebnxi and the absence of ossified epiph3'ses the form of the scapula the structure of the anterior limb the development of the occipital bone and the position of the condyles and the form of the lower jaw.
h. Those not differentiating the Manatee from all the Cetaceans but from peculiar suborders of Cetaceans viz. the absence of a rostrum position of the narial apertures the presence of olfactory nerves the development of tlie nasal bones and  the two bones of the lower jaw not separate at the sympliysis.
' 5 Sirenia in universum quidem nexum plus minusve propinquum CU9 variis mammalium divisionibus nominutis cum PacliydermatibuH potissimuni habent ita ut a reccntiorum phu'ibus adeo pro formis PacJiidennatum aquatibilibus shit declarata.
Forma re vera intermedia tamen qualem inter Mustelina et Phocacina genus Enhydris prabct nee inter Sirenia et Pachydennata ucc inter Sirenia et Caiacea nee inter Zeuglodontes et Sirenia nedum inter Phocacina et Sirenia hucuaquc sunt rcpcrta.
Sirenia potius non solum a Cetaceis et Zeufjlodontibus et Phocinis sed etiam a Pachydermatibus niagis differunt quam Cetacea a Feris quum Cetacea Zeuglodontum ope Phocinis appropinquentur Phocina vero Enhydribus cum Mustelinis cnnnectantur.
6 Sirenia iguitur pro mammalibus mere aquaticis dcclarari potcrunt qua corporis et plurium scclcti partium motubus aquatibus adaptorum figura et structura Cetaceis et Zcvglodontibus sunt connata et Phocinis parnm similia apparent ob indolem phytopbagam non ut in dictis mammalium divisionibus carnivoram et strueturam morpbologicam ei congruam vero Pachydermatibus muUo magis piam aliis mammalibus aflinia observantur nibilominus tamen ob cliarcclercs plurcs ijisis poculiares et formarum intcrmcdiarum absentiam etiam Pachyderniatibm adjungi liaud possunt quare aptius pro tempore saltcm ordinem peculiarcm couslituerunt.
Brandt Symb.
Siren. 18G8 p. 359.
Certain Zeuglodonts are equall characterized by the absence of a rostrum and tlie position of the narial aperture.
The Denticete alone are characterized by the absence of olfactory nerves and the rudimentary condition of the nasal bones.
The Mysticete only are distinguished by the loose connection of the rami of the lower jaw at the symphysis.
c. Those not differentiating from the Cetaceans or even from suborders but onlj' from minor types viz. the nonconsolidation of cervical vertebroe the smaller number of vertebne 50 to 53 against  at least 60 the articulation of the ribs the absence of asymmetry of the bones on each side of the head and the presence of a lachrjmal bone.
The Iniidse Platanistidae and others have as completel3' separated cervical vertebrae as the Manatidae.
The number of vertebra is less in Inia 41 Pontoporia 42 Anarnacus or Hyperoodon 44 to 45 and others and is at the same time of very slight taxonomic value.
The articulation of the ribs is only of family value.
The asymmetry of the cranial bones is most evident in the Plnjseteridse very slight or almost none in many Denticete and is not greater in the Mysticete than in the Sirenians.
The lachrymal bone is evident in the family'' of Ziphiids and in the Mysticete.
Of course then onl' the characters differentiating the Sirenians as a whole from the Cetaceans as a whole can be considered as diagnostic or determinative of differences.
Tlie other alleged distinctions decrease in value in ratio to their restriction to subordinate groups.
But in addition to the characters alleged to differentiate the Sirenians from the Cetaceans others may be found in the modifications of the brain heart etc. and all together ampl' support the validity of the distinction of the ordinal separation of the Sirenians from the Cetaceans but they do not prove the propriety of their ordinal union with an'' Ungulates.
This must be proved by the discovery of at least one character exclusivel common to the Sirenians and Ungulates  we now propose to inquire if there be such.
2d.
Characters common and confined to the Sirenians and the Ungulate animals or to any of the subordinate groups of Ungulates..
These may be examined under several heads.
a.
Characters exclusively shared with all Ungulates.
None.
h. Cliaracters exclusiveljshared with all Pachj'derm Ungulates  that is with the Suiform Artiodactyle Ungulates the Perissodactjle Ungulates and the Proboscideans.
None.
c. Characters exclusively shared with all the Suiform Artiodactyle Ungulates.
None.
d. Characters exclusively shared with all the Perissodactyle Ungulates.
None.
e. Characters exclusively shared with all the Proboscideans.
None.
Thus does it appear that in the whole argument no characters have been adduced which are common to all the Sireuians and the Ungulates or even to them and any of the major subdivisions of the latter group.
It is true that it is especially stated that the Manatee agrees with the Pachyderms and differs from the Cetaceans in the articulation of the ribs with the vertebrae the form of the scapula the position of the occipital condyles and the union above of the parietal bones and the inference might be justifiable from the context that the characters specified were confined to as well as common to the two groups but such is not the case for all the characters in question are shared with quadruped mammals generall'.
Being thus general the characters are not decisive of immediate relation and must be excluded as common property.
It remains to examine into the taxonomic value of the other characters enumerated which are now reduced to types of no more than family and sometimes of inferior value.
.
The Manatee is said to resemble the Hippopotamxis in the 'orbits almost entirely encircled with bone and in the lower jaw that is  in its curved form descending angle and symphysis.
As to the encircled orbits the nearest allies to the Manatee have them open behind and the nearest ally of the Hippopotamus CIiu7osis belonging to the same family and ver' nearly related has them also open behind  therefore the slight taxonomic value of the character becomes at once evident.
As to the similarit' of the lower jaw the writer is unable to perceive it and the related forms of Sirenians and Hippopotamidai differ much in the special characters alluded to.
At any rate any slight superficial resemblance that may be imagined is so completely offset b' the fundamental differences betweeii the two types as to the lovver jaw and the superficial differences in each of those types respectively in the modifications in question as to deprive it of any taxonomic significance.
g. The Manatee is said to resemble the Tapir in the humerus the nasal region and the molars. 
The humerus somewhat resembles the human femur in its upper extremity  in its low'er portion it more nearly resembles both in shape and size the humerus of the Tapir than of anjother Pachyderm.
The likeness is rather confined to size  the similarity in shape is so vague as to make it a matter of opinion whether it is most like the humerus of the Tapir or some other Pach3'derm  the statement may be best met bj'the observation that there is no such definite likeness as there is between the corresponding bones of the Tapir Rhinoceros and Horse compared among themselves. 
In the great length of the nasal opening ... in its horizontal plane .
.
.
and in the shortness of the nasal bones which cover only a small portion of the nasal cavitj' ftie skull of the Manatus comes nearest to the Tapir among living Pachyderms.
It is merely in the length of the  nasal opening that there is any resemblance between the Manatee and Tapir  they differ in tolo in the contiguous bones and especially in the form and relation of the nasal bones.
The molars of Manatus resemble according to Mr. Owen the teeth of some of the fossil tapiroid Pachydermata.
So do they in the same general way resemble the teeth of the Proboscidean Dinotheriids and those of the Marsupial Diprotodonts and they difer strikingly therein from their immediate relatives.
We have therefore double evidence of the slight significance of such resemblances which it is to be remarked is also not a close but a superficial one.
Conclusions.
In fine this analysis of all the characters enumerated as evidence of the affinity of the Manatee and Pachyderms elicits no characters that are at the same time common to and confined to the same types and therefore diagnostic of the combined tjpes.
All the cliaracters are referable to the following categories 1st.
Cliaracters differentiating the Manatee from tlie Cetaceans which after proper restrictions are granted and more tlian granted.
2d.
Characters common to generalized and quadruped mammals and therefore not distinctive.
3d.
Characters confined to distant isolated and specialized types of subordinate value and whose very isolation and specialization are evidence of their slight taxonomic significance.
There is not a question or alternatives as might be supposed from the arguments noticed between the Cetaceans or the Pachderms.
Even if all the differences urged as distinctive of the Sirenians from the Cetaceans were conceded the views here advocated that the Sirenians are a distinct order would loom forth in proportionately more imposing form but such differences cannot be cast into the scale of the Pach3'derms as evidences of affinity with them since tliey are of either a more generalized or specialized value.
The Sirenians not Pachyderms.
In view of these facts it seems evident that we must answer the question proposed From these differences must we not remove the Manatus from Cetacea and place it among Pachydermata where it stands in the same relation as do the seals among the other Carnivora
decidedly in the negative as to the latter and capital clause but affirmatively as to the former and subordinate one.
This we are more prepared to do after having ascertained that the advocate who has found no characters common and confined to the Manatee and the Pachyderms haS found several characters common to and confined to the Manatee and the Cetaceans.
It may be added too that some of the characters which are in a measure shared b' peculiar forms of Sirenians and Ungulates are adaptive or tcleological modifications having reference however to analogous rather than identical ends and even requiring some effort of the imagination to detect the resemblance supposed to exist.
They are special characters gained by highly modified forms whose wellascertained affinities forbid the idea of tlieir inheritance from a common stock and which equally forbid the idea of considering them as indications of affinity or likeness even from a metaphysical point of view.
Further Considerations.
Among other characters supposed by various authors to justify or even render too evident not to be immediately appreciated the relations of the Sirenians and even true Cetaceans to the Pachyderm Ungulates are the considerable relative size and coordinate increase of special parts the thick and naked skin  the variable and irregular teeth as well as station.
The variability and wide range in size and concomitant development within the limits of a strictly natural group is however evidence of the little value of the character the skin is not naked in any Pachyderms and it is not obvious how irrelative variability in dentition is indicative of affinity when it presents no other elements of similarity for comparison.
Finally even conceding the value of station as an element for the determination of ordinal affinities it is not  obvious why the horses the rhinoceroses and allied t3'pes should be regarded as preeminently frequenters of rivers and marshes.
To the writer at least the affinities claimed are not evident.
Genealogy of Sirenians.
The special relations among themselves of the Sirenians at least of those whose skeletal remains are in good part known appear to be tolerably evident thanks to the labors of various zootomists but above all of Prof.
Brandt.
In Halitherium we have the most '  The relationship between the Cetacea  Cete and Sirenia' and the next order 'Parhyderma'''' that offers itself to our notice is too evident not to be immediately appreciated.
The thick and naked skin the gigantic body the massive bones the bulky head and even the variable and irregular teeth that arm the ponderous jaws are all again conspicuous in the PachtDERMATA  and the river and the marsh the localities frequented by the latter as obviously indicate the intermediate position which these animals occupy between the aquatic and the terrestrial mamnialia.
Jones's Thomas Rymer General Outline of the Organization of the Animal Kingdom 4th ed. 1871 p. 809 2201.
 Brandt Johann Friedrich.
SymbohB sirenologicte fasciculus I. quibus praecipue Rhytince historia naturalis illustratur.
.... 1845 Memoires de I'Academie Imperiale des Sciences de St. Fetersbourg.
generalized tjpe manifested as such by the less specialized dentition as well as by such osteological characters among others as the greater development of the representative of the pelvis made known by Kaup and the larger and more approximated nasal bones.
The forms to be approximated to Halitheriiim as the nearest all iSj in tlie present condition of our knowledge a problem concerning which a reasonable difference of opinion ma' prevail Halicore and Manalus Trichechus each having claims to such alliances.
Brandt has however conjoined with it as a more immediate relation the genus Halicore to which naturallysucceeds Rhyiina and has associated the three genera mentioned in a single famil' to which he has given the name Halicoridae The differences between those genera arc however of greater taxonomic value than generic and appear to well merit the distinction of family rank which has been already conferred on them by several naturalists.
With such value therefore those genera iiave been accredited now but as the' form a natural series they have been combined in a special superfamily Hulicoruidea.
The difference between the extremes of that superfamily is at least in some respects greater than between its most generalized t3pe and the remaining wellknown members of the order Trichechidse or Ilanatidee and to mark the limit in a specialized direction of the series the superfamily is adopted.
The Manatidse Trichechidse succeed then not as most nearly related to the extreme term of the preceding series but as so nearl' related to the proximal term as to perhaps even merit further examination whetlier they are not reall' more nearl related to it than the dugongs and consequentljbetter entitled to be associated with it in contradistinction to the others.
The capital character of the Halicoridae of Brandt the Halicoroidea Sixit'me si'ric.
Sciences niatheniatiques physiques et naturelles.
Tome VII.
Secontle partie  Sciences naturelles.
Tome V. .
1849.
Zoologie ct physlologia 1160 pi.
1 5.
Symbohc sirenologicfc.
Fasciculus II.
etIII.
Sireniorum Pachj'dermatum Zeuglotlontum et Cetaceornm onlinis osteologia comparata nee non Sireniorum generum monographije.
..... Petropoli 18G1C8.
Ito. 3 p. 1.
383 1 pp.
9 pL Ib. VIP serie Tome XII. No.
1. '
The outlines of the brain as illustrated by Brandt seem to verify the naturalness of this classification.
of the present arrangement that is the depressed caudal vertebroe and the development of transverse processes has not bqen confirmed as to the Halitheriidae and is applied on the supposition that it is a coordinate of the other characters in which it approximates most to the dugongs.
It must depend on future discovery wliether tlie aggregate of common characters and the taxonomic value of those characters confirm the present combinations.
With respect to the Halicoridse and lihyfinidae the conditions of a natural sequence are apparently best fulfilled by the approximation of the former to the Halitheriidse.
The Rlnjlinidse exhibits a highly specialized modification in several features and especially in the absence of teeth and the length of the intestinal canal  it however affords a more generalized condition than the Halioridee in other respects and notably in the development of the carpal bones and cannot therefore b'e regarded as a derivative from the Halitheridae family as now limited.
But as it exhibits in all respects a less generalized condition than the Halilheridse it must be regarded as the result of development since the culmination oi that type.
The genealogical tree of the order may then be represented as follows  Protosirenian.
Halicoroidea  Trichechoidea Trichechidoe Halitheriidce Halicoridae Rhytinidse.
Various other extinct forms have been referred with more or less reason to the order but they are too little known to be introduced with certainty into the system.
