ON THE ANATOMY AND LINGUAL DENTITION OF Ariolimax AND OTHER Pulmonata
BY W. G. BINNEY.
I have already in connection with my friend Mr. T. Bland given a description of the external characters of Ariolimax Ann.
N. Y. Lye N. H. X.
297 1873.
1 now propose to describe such of its internal organs as I havebeen able to study.
I have examined one specimen of Ariolimax nigerJ.
G.
Coop. preserved in spirit belonging to the state collection of California labelled and presented by Dr. Cooper and in all respects an authentic type.
Agreeing with this type I have other specimens from various California localities so that I believe the species to be well established and generally distributed along the coast of California.
From the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Cambridge Mr. Anthony has sent me a specimen long preserved in alcohol marked from San Mateo California.
For reasons given below I am inclined to consider this the form described by Dr. Cooper as A. Californicus
I have had the opportunity of examining another specimen of this form received from Mr. Stearns who collected it near San Francisco.
From Mr. Henry Hemphill I have received a specimen from San Mateo Co. California which presents most decided specific differences from the lastmentioned form especially in its genitalia.
Having considered the lastmentioned form as A. Californicus am forced to consider this as A. Columbianus the only remaining described species.
It must be borne in mind however that I have never compared it with specimens from more northern regions whence the species was originally described.
The large number of specimens formerly preserved in the Smithsonian tabulated in Land and Fr.
w. Shells Part I. p. 281 were destroyed at the fire in Chicago and I have been unable to obtain elsewhere any specimens from Oregon or AVashington Territory which I can refer to the true Columhianus.
In treating these various forms I have abstained from giving any description of their exterior markings.
Such description would be unreliable as the specimens have been long preserved in alcohol and are evidently in various degrees of contraction.
I will say however that I found in all the blind sac under the mouth well marked though not very deep which is suspected by Dr. Leid' to be the seat of the olfactory nerve.
I can also here refer to several external characters not affected or obliterated by contraction in alcohol.
All the specimens have a distinct locomotive disk to the foot.
In all the orifice of respiration is decidedlj posterior to the middle of the right margin of the mantle.
The position of the anns I found in A. Golumbianus to be posterior and inferior to the respiratory orifice with a gutterlike groove to the edge of the mantle.
Tiie position of the orifice of the generative organs is not so easily decided in alcoholic specimens.
I have no doubt however that in the living animal it is under the mantle not close behind the right tentacle.
In one form Ariolimax Californicushere are beyond doubt two distinct orifices  that of the male being smaller and anterior.
In Dr. Cooper's figure of A. Calif ornicus Proc.
Phila.
Ac.
Xat.
Sc.
1873 pi.
iii.
f. D 3 the two orifices are plainly shown and suggested to me the identity of my specimens with his species especially as the external markings also agreed with his description.
In A. Golumbianus 
also there is no common duct or cloaca as Dr. Leidy calls it to the genitalia though I could not detect more than one exterior orifice.
In A. niger there can be but one common orifice judging from the penis entering into the common cloaca as shown in my fig.
c of plate XI.
The mantle is free on its margin in its whole circumference especially in front and on its sides as far back as the respiratory orifice.
I could detect no concentric lines or other markings on the mantle.
The mantle was greatly produced and swollen on its margins in Mr.
Steam's specimen of A. Calif or Jiicus.
In that and all the specimens examined I found an internal shell varying somewhat in thickness but always well marked calcareons subhexagonal longer than wide.
In the specimen of A. Coluvbianus '
there were decided concentric lines of growth on the shell as will be seen in my fig.
G plate II.
The caudal mucus pore was plainly visible in all the specimens of .
niger which I have examined.
In fig.
a of plate II.
I have figured the pore of this species.
It seems to be in two portions one erect triangular at the end of the body of the animal with another running at right angles with it in a gutterlike excavation towards the extreme end of the tail.
In the form I have referred to A. Columhianus 
the pore was quite different from this as seen in my figure B of plate II.
In this the erect portion of the pore is entirely wanting the carinated body being arched regularly down to and overhanging the foot.
The longitudinal gutterlike pore is however plainly visible.
In the two specimens of the form I have referred to A. Californicushe body is also arched down to and overhangs the foot.
On the tail corresponding to the gutterlike pore of the lastmentioned form there was no sign of any pore but in its place the flesh was spongelike without the markings which are found on the neighboring portions of the foot.
It may be therefore that in these specimens the mucous pore was contracted or closed.
No doubt it exists in the living animal.
Of the internal anatomy I have examined the nervous S3stem in both A. Californicusnd A. Colambianus 
The ganglia present the usual three sets all globular in form and so crowded together in the suboesophageal and supercesophageal as almost to form a continuous chain around the buccal mass.
In these same two forms also I have examined the circulatory and respiratory organs.
Within the respiratory cavity is a large spongy earshaped organ attached only at one point to the roof of the chamber.
This I suppose to be the renal organ surrounding and indeed inclosing the heart though it is not so arranged in any of the genera described by Dr. Leidy.
In Avion hortensis he describes the nearest approach to such an arrangement.
I have examined the digestive system of all the forms and figured that of both A. Californicusnd Columhianus.
In the latter plate II.
fig.
d f the buccal mass 1 is large and round the salivary glands 4 short and broad  the stomach 5 long and large with a decided constriction at its middle and the usual culdesac 6 at its extremity at which point the biliary ducts T 7 enter  from this the stomach passes into the intestine 8 which proceeds first forward almost to the oesophagus thence proceeds backward to the extreme rear of the general cavity of the body and again forward to below the respirator' cavity into which it penetrates upwards as the rectum 9 and through which it passes to the anus whose position is described above.
The intestine in its whole course winds among and is imbedded in the various lobes of the liver which latter organ is arranged as usual in Limax Avion etc.
In A. Calif amicus plate XI.
fig.
e there is a difference in the arrangement of the stomach.
Before reaching the culdesac 6 the stomach is greatly constricted and the culdesac runs at right angles with the stomach in an erect position not lying on its side as I have represented it in order to show the connection between it and the anterior portion of the stomach which connection was entirely concealed by the culdesac in its upright position.
The extreme length of the digestive system is three times that of the whole body of the animal at least in its contracted state.
The jaw in all the forms of Arioliviax is quite thick dark horncolored arcuate  ends but little attenuated blunt  anterior surface with stout ribs denticulating either margin.
I have figured the jaw of A. Golvmhianus' plate II.
fig.
h which has about twelve ribs.
In A. Californicusrom Mr. Anthou there were thirteen ribs to the jaw fourteen in Mr. Hemphill's specimen of the same.
In A. niger Dr. Cooper describes about twenty but in one specimen I found but eight.
In Land and Fr.
w. Shells I. p. 280 I have figured a jaw of the true northern form with eighteen ribs.
The pouch of the lingual membrane is shown in plate II.
fig.
D 5.
The membrane is as usual in the Helicidae with tricuspid central bicuspid lateral and quadrate marginal teeth showing simply a modification of the laterals.
In L. and Fr.
w. Shells I.
.
280 I have figured the lingual membrane of the true northern A. Columbianus.
The marginal teeth are there shown to have one long denticle and a small subobsolete side denticle.
This form of marginal teeth I have found in the form I have referred to '.
Columbianus
see plate II.
fig.
e.
Also in one of Dr. Cooper's tj'pes of A. niger plate XI.
fig.
a and in both the specimens of A. Californicuslate XI.
fig.
g.
This form of marginal tooth may therefore be considered characteristic of the genus though in one specimen supposed to be A. niger I noticed marginal teeth with the outer cusp much more developed and bifid and figured them in Ann.
Lye.
N. H. N. Y. x. pi.
xiii.
fig.
L In plate XI.
fig.
B I have given the central and the adjoining lateral teeth of A. niger.
In fig.
F the central and one adjoining lateral of A. Californicus
There is no retractor muscle to the buccal mass in A. Califor' nicus and A. Golumhianus  but a very stout broad one to the whole head attached to the outer integument below the buccal mass and running along some distance on the floor of the general visceral cavit to which finally it becomes attached.
In describing the genital organs I have used the terras applied to the various organs by Dr. Leid' in the first volume of my father's work on The Terrestrial MoUusks of the United States.
Each form examined presented differences in these organs.
They all agi'ee however in having a very large ovary.
On opening the body of .
niger plate XI.
fig.
c the genitalia are found in the usual place the testicle lying quite at the rear of the visceral cavit' near the extreme point of the upper lobes of the liver hardly imbedded in it connected to the ovary by a long epidid3nnis 2.
The testicle 1 is globular in form composed of black aciniform cfeca.
It contrasts in color with the dirty white of the liver.
Color however I have not found constant in the internal organs of land shells preserved in spirits.
The above described arrangement of the testicle is as usual in Limax Arion and other slugs.
It forms an excellent specific character for A nigei' the position of the testicle being quite difierent in A. Californicusnd 4.
Columbianus a.s will be seen below.
The epididymis 2 is long convoluted at the end nearer the ovary.
The accessory gland is shown in 3.
The ovary 11 is large yellowish.
The oviduct 8 and prostate 4 show no unusual characters.
The genital bladder 9 is large oval with a short duct 16.
The penis is in a short stout sac 5 which has a bulblike swelling at its upper extremity where the vas deferens 7 enters.
The latter organ has nothing of peculiar interest.
A vaginal prostate or perhaps dart sac is shown in 13.
The extei'nal orifice is described above p. 34.
The genital system of A. Californicuss figured in d of plate XI.
The testicle does not lie far away imbedded in or resting on the upper lobes of the liver but lies close against the ovary in the semicircle formed by the recurving of the apex of the ovary upon itself.
In this respect the position of the testicle is diflTerent from that of most slugs and affords an excellent specific character.
The testicle 1 is kidneyshaped as it is covered by its investing membrane.
It appears to consist of closely bound fasciculi of short white tubular not aciniform caeca.
The epididymis 2 is shprt and still more shortened by its excessive convolution.
The accessoiy gland is shown in 3 partiall imledded in the ovaiy.
The ovaiT 11 is large and distinctly lobulated.
The oviduct 8 is narrow ver' long greatly' convoluted.
From the testicle to about the middle of the course of the oviduct is a stout threadlike organ of unknown use to me either a muscle nerve or duct.
It is not figured in my plate as I am not certain of its forming part of the genital S3'stem.
The genital bladder 9 is oval large with a short stout duct 16.
The penis is inclosed in a long tapering sac 5 terminating in a decided flagellum 15 in which I detected no capreolus.
On the end of the flagellum is a large globular bulb.
The retractor muscle of the penis is attached to the roof of the general visceral cavity below the pulmonary chamber.
It joins the penis at the commencement of the flagellum.
The vas deferens 7 is peculiar.
It leaves the prostate gland 4 as usual runs alongside of the vagina to the base of the penis thence runs upwards swelling to an enormous extent so as to equal the breadth of the penis then again becomes gradually reduced to its former size until as the most delicate thread it enters the penis at the end of the flagellum below the bulb.
The penis did not appear in the animal extended as drawn in the plate but was twice recurved upon itself.
There is also a vaginal prostate 13 large earshaped close to the exterior orifice of the female organs which with that of the male is described above p. 34.
On plate II.
fig.
c I have figured the genitalia of A. Columhianus
which also has a xevy large ovar 11 against which the testicle 1 lies as in the preceding form.
The OA'ary is so large as to take up onehalf of the entire visceral cavit extending completel' across the body resting on the floor of the cavitj' its ends recurved upwards so as to rest upon the liver on the upper surface of the viscera.
The body of the animal externally is swollen by the large size of the ovary.
The oviduct 8 is narrow long greatly convoluted ending in an extremely' long convoluted vagina.
The genital bladder 9 is oval large with a short stout duct 16.
The vas deferens 7 unlike that of the preceding form is as nsual in the land shells.
It enters the penis 5 at its summit opposite the retractor muscle 6.
The sac of the penis is very stout long cylindrical.
The external orifice is described above p. 34.
Zonites Isevigatus Pfr. pi.
III. fig i. I have examined numerous specimens but have some liesitation in giving m' figure and description as absolutelj perfect.
I had great difficulty in dissecting the species.
The ovary is short and vagina long.
The genital bladder with its duct forms a short cylindrical saclike organ opening ne.ar the base of tlie vagina and tapering at the apex.
The penis sac is long cylindrical larger at its apex where it receives the vas deferens.
At its base the penis sac has its opening into the vagina with a short stout organ fig.
13 with rounded apex where a retractor muscle seems to be attached.
This organ may be a dart sac or some form of prostate gland.
HempMllia glandulosa Bl.
and Binn. pi.
III. fig.
v. vi.
Tiie testicle is composed of a large globular mass of aciniform caeca.
It lies looseljupon not imbedded in the upper lolies of tlie liver.
The ovary and oviduct are as usual.
The genital bladder is globular very large on a short stout duct entering the vagina near its base.
The penis sac is long C3lindrical larger towards its apex where both tlie retractor muscle and vas deferens enter.
In several specimens examined the penis sac appeared somewhat different.
It had a large globular bulb 5a at its apex.
The vas deferens 1 entered beyond the middle of the length of the sac 5  it was greatly swollen 56 before entering the sac for a distance equalling about onehalf of the length of the sac.
At the commencement of this swelling the retractor muscle 6 was inserted.
This form of penis sac is figured in fig vi.
The balance of the anatomy of Hemphillia seems to be as in the other slugs.
Helix Kelletti Forbes Arionta pi.
III. fig.
iv.
The Catalina Island form.
The ovary is light yellow.
The oviduct is white.
The genital bladder is light yellow.
The prostate is large and jellow.
The whole genital system is long and narroAV.
The genital bladder is small globular on an extremely long and delicate duct which enters the vagina at its npper end.
The duct just below the bladder receives a branch duct very long flagellate three times the diameter of the duct itself.
The penis sac is long stout cylindrical tapering towards its apex and prolonged into a very long delicate flagellum.
The vas deferens enters at the point where the flagellum commences.
The retractor muscle is inserted half way between the vagina and the entrance of the vas deferens.
Opposite the mouth of the penis sac is a small saclike organ probably a dart sac or vaginal prostate.
Helix Mitchelliana Lea fesodon pi.
III. fig.
iii.
The genital system is long and narrow.
The oviduct is greatly convoluted.
The penis sac is long stout cylindrical with a bulblike expansion at its apex at which point both vas deferens and retractor muscle are inserted.
The genital bladder is lengthened ovate not much larger than its duct which is sliort and enters the vachia below the middle of its length.
Helix reticulata Pfr.
Arionta pi.
III. fig.
ii.
The specimens examined have a very globose shell.
The ovary is brownish below yellowish above.
The epididymis and testicle are salmon colored.
The oviduct is white the prostate salmon.
The genital bladder is small oval with an extremely long duct which has a flagellate branch.
The duct enters at the lower end of the vagina.
The penis is narrow cylindrical extremely long with a flagellate extension.
The retractor muscle is inserted beyond the middle of the length of the penis the vas deferens at the commencement of the flagellum.
There is a stout long cylindrical vaginal prostate whose apex is extended into a flagellum which shortly becomes bifurcate there being a bulblike expansion on each branch just beyond the bifurcation.
In some individuals the bulblike expansions are still larger and stouter than in the figure.
The cylindrical extension of the vaginal prostate is abruptly truncated the two flagella entering near the end not at the extreme terminus.
Helix Eoemeri Pfr.
Mesodon .
The genitalia are figured on pi.
lY. fig.
v. The oviduct is scarcely convoluted.
The genital bladder is large oval with a long large duct.
The penis sac is short stout of about equal breadth throughout ending in a stout oval bulb into which the vas deferens enters.
The retractor muscle is inserted above the entrance of the vas deferens.
The specimen examined was collected in Bosque County Texas by Mr. Hugo W. Ericsson.
Helix appressa Say  Triodopsis .
The genitalia are figured on pi.
IV. fig.
IV.
The ovary is long and narrow.
The epididymis is very long convoluted at the end nearer the oviduct.
The lastnamed organ is not much convoluted.
The prostate is scalloped along its edges.
The genital bladder is globular small with a long small duct.
The sac of the penis is extremely long ribbonlike one and onehalf as long as the oviduct.
The vas deferens enters its apex.
The long ribbonlike sac of the penis resembles that figured by Dr. Leidy Terr.
Moll.
U. S.
I.
 of H. Sayii.
There is but little resemblance to the genitalia of H. iJalliata so nearly allied bits' shell.
The specimens examined were collected in eastern Tennessee by Miss Law.
Helix Nickliniana Lea Arionta.
The genitalia are figured on plate IV.
fig.
iii.
The ovary is yellow long narrow concave on one side convex and carinated on the other.
The accessory gland of the epididymis is composed of long white cseca.
The oviduct is extremely long narrow convoluted.
The genital bladder is globular small with an extremely long duct to which is added an accessory duct or branch almost as long as the oviduct.
This branch joins the duct near its end.
It is thicker than the duct.
The duct enters the vagina at its upper part.
The penis sac is long cylindrical small almost equalling in length the oviduct and ovary united.
The retractor muscle is Inserted at about the middle of its length it is attached to the diaphragm  the vas deferens enters about threefourths of its length  beyond the vas deferens is a flagellate extension.
The vagina is long and narrow  near its base opposite the entrance of the sac of the penis is a stout cylindrical long hollow vaginal prostate gradually tapering at its apex and extended into a delicate tube which soon becomes divided into two long flagella.
Just beyond the division on each flagellum is a stout bulblike enlargement.
This complicated form of genitalia hitherto unnoticed in American species has been noticed in European species.
Patula strigosa Gould pi.
IV. fig.
ii.
Represents the genitalia of a Salmon River specimen.
The testicle as usual was in the summit of the upper lobe of the liver.
The epididymis is long convoluted in its half nearer the testicle.
The accessory gland is composed of several long black coeca.
The oviduct is saclike not convoluted containing eight embr'onic 4 shells.
The genital bladder is long with a long narrow dnct entering the upper part of the vagina.
The vagina is short and swollen.
The penis sac is long stout blunt at apex where the retractor muscle is inserted.
The vas deferens becomes greatly swollen before it enters the sac of the penis which it does above the insertion of the retractor muscle.
As the shells of some forms of this species are difficult to distinguish from some forms of Patula solifaria it is interesting to state that the genitalia of a specimen of the latter from the same locality' offer very distinct specific characteristics agreeing with Dr. Leidy's figure in Terr.
Moll.
U. S. I. Macrocyclis Vancouverensis Lea.
The genitalia are figured on pi.
IV. fig.
i.
The epididymis is extremely long and very large forming the peculiar feature of the sjstem.
The genital bladder is oval with a long duct which is very much broader at the end nearer the vagina.
The penis sac is long gradually tapering at its apex where it receives the vas deferens.
Upon the side of the vagina about the middle of its length is a wartlike protuberance which may be a dart sac or a vaginal prostate.
A comparison of Dr. Leidy's figure of the genitalia of M. concava in Terr.
Moll.
U. S. I. shows considerable difference between the two species especially in the epididymis.
Zonites demissus Binney.
The genitalia are like those of Z. intertexhis Binney figured by Dr. Leidy Terr.
Moll.
U. S.
I..
The accessory glands of the dart sac are rather shorter in demissus.
Amphibulima appendiculata Pfr.
Elsewhere Ann.
Lye.
Nat.
Hist. N. Y. x.
206 pi.
ix.
f. 2 6 9 11 we have fully described the external appearance jaw lingual membrane and shell of this species pointing out its differences from Succinea from Pellicula from Omalonyx and all other described genera.
I now give pi.
VIII.
fig.
5 a figure of its genital system with notes on other organs drawn from specimens in alcohol.
The external orifice of generation is behind the right eyepeduncle.
The orifice of respiration is on the right mai'gin of the mantle slightly to the rear of its middle.
There is a distinct locomotive disk to the foot.
The eyepeduucles must be short and stout.
The digestive and nervous systems present no remarkable feature.
The suboesophageal ganglia consist apparently of six closely agglomerated globules.
There are two simple globules to the stomacogastric ganglia.
The genital system pl.VIII.
fig.
5 is quite simple presenting no accessory organs.
Tlie testicle is composed of six or seven fasciculi of long cseca which massed together in a globular form equal the length of the oviduct.
This enormous development of the testicle is the peculiarity of the genital system and no doubt will prove a reliable specific but not generic character.
The epididymis is long convoluted at its middle portion.
The oviduct is long narrow not convoluted.
The vagina is about onefifth the length of the oviduct it is swollen greatly at the entrance of the penis.
The genital bladder is small globular  its duct is narrow longer than the oviduct and enters the vagina at the upper fourth of its length.
The penis sac is short stout blunt at apex where the vas deferens enters and where the retractor muscle is also inserted.
In the paper referred to above we hesitated to decide upon the generic position of this species leaving it temporarily in Pellicula of Fischer not of Heynemann which is Omalijnx.
Since that time I have become acquainted with the jaw of Aniphibulima and find it to be of the same tjpe as in appendicidata.
I would therefore suggest that this species belongs to Amphibulima.
It is true its lingual dentition see pi.
VIII.
fig.
6 more closely resembles that of Simpulopsis sulculosa as far as centrals and perhaps laterals are concerned but in the marginals as described in S. sulculosa and S. Potiornceyisis the resemblance ceases.
Moreover the jaw of Simpulopsis is described as quite different by Shuttleworth.
The species under consideration cannot therefore be placed in Si7npulopsis.
It appears at all events that the shell in this group is an unreliable guide to generic position.
It must be borne in mind that I here describe the anatomy of the shell figured by us I.e..
We believe it to be Succinea apjoendiculata Pfr.
Fischer bases his genus Pellicula on Succinea depressa Rang.
He does indeed place S. appendiculata Pfr. in the synonymy of his species but our specimens of appendiculafa could never be the same as Fischer's specimens of depressa.
His had a jaw with nine decided ribs denticulating the cutting edge and teeth of the usual form of Eelicinae quite different from what In Fischer's plate the references to teeth of Omalonyx unguis aud Pel licula depressa are reversed.
we find in onr S. appendiculata.
His species and ours are therefore distinct.
Pellicula convexa Martens Succinea is quite a distinct species and belongs to tlie genus Omalonyx as sliown by Heynemann's figure of the jaw Mai.
Blatt. xv..
I give also figures of the central and lateral teeth of our species pl.YIII.fig.
6.
Amphibulima patula Brug.
I have elsewhere described in connection with Mr.
Bland the jaw and lingualmembraneof specimens of this species from St.Kitts and Dominica Am.
Journ.
of Conch. YII.
186 pi.
xvii. f. 1 2 Ann.
Lye.
N. H. and N. Y. x.
225 pi.
xi. f 8 Lately the question of identity of these shells with the Guadeloupe jjaJo has been raised see Journal de Conchliologie XXL 12.
I have therefore again carefull' examined the lingual membranes previously described to learn if thegive any difference worthy to be considered of specific value.
1 have figured teeth from each lingual membrane pi.
YIL.
I regret not having had the opportunity of examining Guadeloupe specimens also but have never been able to receive the latter with the animal  indeed it seems to be now found subfossil only.
I can only treat the question of the identity of the St. Kitts and Dominica forms not their identit with Guadeloupe forms.
It will be seen that the Dominica form has sharper cuttingpoints to the large cusps of its central and lateral teeth than that of St. Kitts.
Fig.
B shows a group of laterals of the former in which some variation from the pointed shape is indeed shown but no decided tendenc' that way.
On the other hand the laterals from the St. Kitts form show great constancy in the square truncation of the cutting points.
The teeth of the St. Kitts form are broader in proportion to their length than those of Dominica have a greater curve in their outlines and more developed side cusps which overlap the median cusps.
The Dominica lingual in the onl' row counted had 81187 teeth.
A row of the St. Kitts form 571 5T.
The marginal teeth of the St. Kitts form show a greater tendency to splitting into sharp denticles on the cutting cusps than tliose of Dominica.
It cannot be denied that certain variations may be noticed in the two lingual membranes.
I believe however that these differences are not such as suggest specific distinction especially as the shell furnishes no grounds for doubting the specific identity of the forms.
Nor by the shell alone does there seem to be two species.
Mr.
Bland has given a detailed account of the species in Journal de Conchyliologie XXI.
342 October 1873.
Amphibulima rubescens Desh.
Mr.
Bland and myself are indebted to Governor Rawson for specimens preserved in spirits of Succinea 7ubescens Fer.
of Martinique.
On examination of the jaw and lingual membrane I found the species to be no Succinea but an Amphibulima in which genus it is placed by H. and A. Adams Gen. Rec.
Moll.
 and by Beck Index though PfeifTer treats it as a Succinea and von Martens catalogues it in Succinea s. str.
See note 1 to p. 345 of Journ.
de Conch. Oct. 1873 3d series XIII.
The external appearance of the animal has nothing peculiar.
The head appears blunt and short the tail long and pointed without any mucus pore.
There is no distinctly marked locomotive disk to the foot over the whole breadth of which the transverse muscles pass.
The reticulations of the surface of the animal seem large and coarse in proportion to its size.
As far as can be judged from alcoholic specimens the tentacles and e3epeduncles seem short and stout.
The respiratory and anal orifices are under the mantle on the right side.
The external orifice of generation is behind the right eyepeduncle.
On opening the animal from above the generative system is found as usual lying on the right of the animal.
It occupies the whole of the visceral cavity in front of the shell lying upon the stomach.
The testicle see plate VIII. fig.
4 is a globular mass composed of long ceeca.
It lies imbedded in the liver.
The epididymis is not greatly convoluted.
It passes between the stomach and intestine at the culdesac of the former on its way to the ovary.
The latter organ is as usual tongueshaped.
The oviduct is long and greatly convoluted.
The vagina is short receiving at its lower portion the long duct of the small globular genital bladder.
The penis enters the vagina close to the common opening.
The sac of the penis is not long is stout cylindrical blunt at apex where it receives the vas deferens just above the insertion of the retractor muscle.
There are no accessor' organs.
The genital system is very much the same in its general arrangenient as that of Amphibulima appendiculafa Pfr.
see fig.
5 but dirt'evs among other things in wanting the huge testicle of that species.
The digestive sjstem presents no peculiar characters.
The stomacli is long narrow and ribbonshaped lying under the genital system and extending backward as far as the shell when the animal is extended.
At this point the stomach forms the usual culdesac at its junction with the intestine.
The last organ and the liver are small in proportion as would be anticipated from the short spire of the shell  the liver is dark blue.
There seems to be a retractor muscle to the whole head rather than to the buccal mass.
It lies on the floor of the cavit'.
The buccal mass is large the oesophagus small.
The salivary glands and ducts and pouch of the lingual membrane are as usual.
The jaw is readil' detached from the muscles of the mouth and is not connected with the lingual membrane as usual with our Helices.
 It is thin wide low arched with attenuated bluntly pointed ends  divided by numerous about 63 delicate ribs into separate platelike divisions as in the jaw of Gilindrella Bidimidus etc. the ribs running somewhat obliquely towards the centre of the jaw  there is no decided upper median triangular plate fig.
2 plate VIII..
The lingual membrane plate VII. fig.
3 is long broad composed of numerous rows of 76176 teeth.
Centrals long narrow expanding below with the lower margin squarely excavated as in Succinea  tricuspid the central cusp yQvy long wide with a greatly expanded squarely truncated cutting point reaching beyond the lower margin of the tooth the side cusps short and narrow simply pointed.
The lateral teeth are of same t3'pe as the centrals but unsymmetrical and bicuspid.
The marginals are a simple modification of the laterals with a long bluntly truncated median cusp and obsolete side cusps.
The extreme marginals are irregularly denticulated the outer and inner denticles being more produced especially the outer and greatlj'' curved  the inner denticles usually two in number are quite small.
The jaw agrees perfectly with that of the genus Amphibulima described by us.
Ann.
Lye.
N. H. of N. Y. x. p. .223 pi.
xi. '
Even after boiling the whole buccal mass in potash the lingual membrane and jaw remain attached in most of our Helices of K. A. showing a decided connection between the two.
fig.
8.
The lingual membrane has also the same general arrangement as in that genus with specific differences from that of A. patula see plate YII. fig.
ac especially in the widely expanded blunt median cusp and in the Sicccineaike cutting away of the lower margin of the teeth.
The nervous ganglia are as usual in the Geophila forming a continuous ring in the supraoesophageal and grouped together in one mass in the suboesophageal set.
Plate YIII. fig.
3 gives the central and adjacent lateral teeth with marginals at different intervals to the edge of the membrane.
The notes we have given above will enable a full generic description of the genus Amphibulima to be drawn.
Gonospira and Nanina from Mauritius.
Having received from the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Cambridge a number of specimens in alcohol of Mauritius species collected b' Consul Pike we are able to give the following notes on them.
Gonoftpi7a.
There were several species of this and the allied subgenera allowing an examination of their anatomy.
The soft parts of the animals are colored red.
The species especially examined are G. Newtoni H. Ad and G. palanga Fer.
There seems nothing in the anatomy different from what is usual in the land shells.
The genitalia of G. Neiotoni are figured on plate VIII. fig.
7.
There are no accessory organs.
The genital bladder is long oval with a long narrow duct.
The penis sac is stout long receiving the vas deferens at its summit at which point also the retractor muscle is inserted.
The vagina is long the oviduct not convoluted.
The ovary tongueshaped as usual.
The epididymis is short the testicle as usual lies in the liver.
G. palanga has a similar genital system.
There appears no locomotive disk and no caudal pore.
The lingual membrane of the genus has been photographed by Mr.
Bland and myself Am.
Journ.
of Conch. v. pi.
xi.
fig.
I.
All the species now received have similar dentition.
There is however a difference in the number of teeth in each transverse row.
I counted about 37137 in palanga 616 in G. Newtoni 12112 in G. mauritiana Morelet  25125 in G. modiolus Fer.
Gibbulina v. Martens.
The dentition of this species is also described by Semper Nachr.
Mai.
Ges. II.
103.
21121 in G. Nevilli.
We have elsewhere described the dentition of G. sulcata Miill.
Ann.
N. Y. Lye.
N. H. x.
222.
No jaw was found in any of the above nor in Ennea clavulata Lam This last sjiecies is placed in s. g. Gulella by von Martens.
There were five embryonic shells in the oviduct proving the species to be viviparous.
The dentition is the same as in Gonospira.
There appears to be a median tooth of same form as the laterals.
Of the genus Nanina using the name in the same sense as von Martens in die Heliceen there were several species.
All have the locomotive disk the caudal pore with overhanging hornlike projection the smooth jaw with median projection and the lingual dentition of the genus .
e. centrals tricuspid laterals bicuspid marginals aculeate bluntly bifid.
Such are N. Caldwelli Benson N. Baivsonis Barclay  semicerina Morelet  X. argentea Rve.
 N. implicata Nevill  N. stylodon Pfr. put in Flelix Erepta by von Martens.
Entirely different in the dentition is another species N. philyrina Morelet though the species agrees in other respects with the abovenamed.
The membrane is very broad the teeth exceedingly numerous arranged in oblique rows.
The centrals which I am confident of having seen are small narrow high.
The other teeth are the same in form to the edge of the membrane.
They appear to have the usual aculeate form of the marginal teeth in Nanina but instead of narrowing towards the cutting point they are broadly and obliquely truncated reflected and minutely denticulated.
This lingual membrane is also figured by Semper Phil.
Archip. pi.
vi.
f. 35 but his figures give more the impression of the usual Nanina marginals with denticulated side and bifid jjoints.
The teeth are however so exceedingly numerous and small it is very difficult to understand them.
Elsewhere Ann.
N. Y. Lye.
X. H. x. ITO we have described the lingual of the following Mauritius species  Nanina inversicolor leucostyla rufizonata militaris.
I have examined the genitalia of N. inversicolor.
The oviduct is long narrow saclike j the genital bladder is hardly smaller than its long wide duct the penis sac is long extended into a flagellum receiving the vas deferens near its apex be'ond it having a bulblike termination  the vas deferens is greatly swollen at its middle portion and near the base of the oviduct has a long flagellate appendix.
Glandina semitarum Rang.
 Varicella .
Martinique Governor Rawson.
Lingual membrane as usual in Glandina.
There are about 30130 teeth.
The central is long and narrow sharply pointed.
Glandina Phillipsi Adams  Varicella.
.
Jamaica.
Lingual membrane as in last species.
Helix clausa Say Mesodon.
Whitley Co. Kentuck3 A. G. Wctherby.
Jaw as usual in the subgenus with about 10 stout separate ribs denticulating either margin.
Lingual membrane long and narrow.
Teeth about 4 114 L Centrals and laterals about 11 of the latter as usual in the subgenus see fig.
of those of H. Sayi L. and Fr.
w. Shells I.
154 fig.
265.
Marginals quadrate with one extremely long oblique denticle as in H. thyroides 1. c. fig.
252 p. 148.
Some of the extreme marginals are notched or obsoletely bifid at their point.
The penis resembles that of H. thyroides as figured by Dr. Leidy in Terr.
Moll.
U. S. I. Helix Downieana Bland Mesodon.
Whitley Co. Kentucky.
A. G. Wetherby.
Jaw ribbed as usual in the subgenus.
Lingual membrane as usual in the subgenus see fig.
265 of L. and Fr.
w. Shells N. A. I.
Marginals with one long oblique bluntly bifid inner denticle and two short blunt outer denticles.
Helix Wetherbyi Bland Mesodon.
Whitley Co. Kentucky.
A. G. Wetherby.
Jaw and lingual membrane as usual in the subgenus see ante. H. clavsa the former with about 18 ribs the latter with marginals peculiar for the great development of the inner blunt denticle the outer being short and blunt.
Plate V. fig.
IV 18.
Helix Edvardsi Bland Stenotrema.
Whitley Co. Kentucky.
A. G. Wetherby.
Jaw as usual in the subgenus see L. and Fr.
w. Shells N. A. 1 with about 13 broad crowded ribs denticulating either margin.
Lingual membrane as in H.hirsuta 1. c. 119 fig.
197.
Centrals tricuspid laterals bicuspid marginals wide low with one innei' long oblique bluntly bifid denticle and two outer short blunt denticles.
Helix angulata Fer.
Eurycratera .
Porto Rico.
From the late Mr. Robert Swift.
Jaw stout dark claretcolored low wide ends blunt about 7 very wide crowded decided ribs bluntly denticulating either margin.
Lingual membrane as in the H. crispata plate X. fig.
9 as far as the general arrangement of the teeth but there are decidedly developed points to the side cusps of both centrals and laterals we have therefore figured it plate IX. fig.
5.
Helix Texasianna Mor.
Polygyra .
Bosque Co. Texas.
Mr. H. W. Ericsson.
Jaw wide low slightly arcuate ends blunt with 10 decided ribs denticulatino either marofin.
Lingual membrane plate V. fig.
1 as usual in the subgenus.
Centrals and laterals with a plate about as wide as high the former tricuspid the latter bicuspid cusps long and slender with long sharp points.
Marginals low wide multidentate the two inner denticles long the several outer denticles short and slender.
Of the same type as figured by us for H. auriculata in L. and Fr.
w. Shells L 87.
Helix Luquillensis Shuttl.
Polydorites .
The lingual was received mounted from the late Mr. Robert Swift.
Lingual membrane plate X. fig.
24 as usual in the Helicidae.
Centrals tricuspid laterals bicuspid cusps with long sharp points extending beyond the base of the ilate.
Marginals bicuspid cusps short bluntly rounded the inner one as usual the longer.
We received no jaw of this species.
Helix notabilis Shuttl.
Thelidomus.
Tortola.
Received mounted from the late Mr. Robert Swift.
Jaw arcuate low ends blunt  narrower at the centre  decided separate ribs denticulating either margin.
Lingual membrane already published by us.
Am.
Journ.
Conch. VL 177  see also plate IX. fig.
10.
Centrals tricuspid laterals bicuspid the plates about as wide as high the laiger cusp with a long point extending beyond the lower margin of the plate.
Marginals quadrate of equal width and height with two short wide Munt round cusps the inner one slightly the larger.
Helix discolor Fer.
Thelidomns.
Jaw arcuate thick ends blunt.
Anterior surface with 7 unequal decided stout ribs denticulating either margin.
Lingual membrane plate X.lig.
1 long and narrow.
Centrals with a long narrow plate expanded at the base and bearing at its corners a small reinforcement  base of the plate extending beyond the cusp  bluntl tricuspid the median cusp long stout with a short blunt point  side Cusps subobsolete.
Laterals as in the centrals but unsym metrical and with a shorter plate.
Marginals quadrate wide as higli with two short blunt denticles the inner one slightly the longer.
Helix lima Fer.
Thelidomns .
Porto Iico.
Received mounted from tbe late Mr. Robert Swift.
Jaw arcuate thick high ends blunt  no median projection to the cutting edge.
Anterior surface with 7 stout ribs.
A strong thick muscular attachment to the upper margin.
No lingual membrane received.
Helix marginella Gmel.
Caracohts.
Porto Rico.
Received mounted from the late Mr. Robert Swift.
A portion only of the jaw is preserved on the slide.
It appears to be thick arcuate with strong transverse lines of reinforcement and decided ribs.
Lingual dentition as in H. excellens see plate X. fig.
67.
Helix Chemnitziana Pfr.
Pleiirodonta.
Jamaica.
Received mounted from the late Mr. Robert Swift.
Jaw stout arched ends attenuated blunt  anterior surface with about 6 irregularly disposed ribs stout and denticulating either margin.
No lingual membrane received.
Helix Carmelita Fer.
Pleurodonta.
Jamaica.
Received mounted from the late Mr. Robert Swift.
Jaw arcuate ends blunt anterior surface with about 6 stout ribs denticulating either margin.
Lingual membrane plate X. fig.
5 as usual in the Helicidse.
Central teeth short bluntly pointed on the middle cusps the side cusps subobsolete  laterals like centrals also with obsolete side cusps  marginals with oblique bluntly rounded broad cusps the inner larger one bluntly bifid.
Helix punctata mix dentimlata Born.
Dentellaria.
Martinique.
Governor Rawson.
Jaw stout arched ends blunt catting edge with a blunt median projection one stout decided rib on the centre of the jaw and three less developed separate ribs M each side of it.
Lingual membrane long and narrow plate IX. fig.
8.
Centrals high and narrow with long stout median cusps bearing a point extending nearly to the base of the plate side cusps subobsolete.
Laterals like the centrals but uns3'mraetrical.
Marginals low wide subqiiadrate with one very long broad bluntly bifid oblique denticle and one smaller bluntly rounded side denticle.
Helix nucleola Rang.
Dentellaria.
Martinique.
Governor Rawson.
Jaw thick arched ends blunt  cutting margin with an obtuse median projection.
One central stout rib denticulating either margin.
Lingual membrane as usual in Dentellaria see H. punctata Born above.
Helix formosa Fer.
Dentellaria.
Antigua.
Received mounted from the late Mr. Robert Swift.
Jaw arched ends blunt several strong transverse lines of reinforcement but no ribs  a median projection to cutting edge.
Lingual membrane as usual in the subgenus.
See pi.
IX. fig.
8 of punctata. Born.
Helix badia Fer.
Dentellaria.
Received mounted from Mr.
Swift.
Jaw stout arched  ends blunt with about eight decided ribs.
Lingual membrane as usual in the subgenus.
See pi.
IX. fig.
8 of H. punctata Born.
Pupa rupicola Say.
Ohio.
A. G. Wetherby.
Jaw low wide slightly arcuate ends but little attenuated blunt  no median projection to cutting edge.
Lingual membrane as usual in the genus.
See figures of that of eorticaria pentodon and badia in L.  Fr.
w. N. A. I.
The cusps on the laterals however are very much stouter.
There are five perfect laterals.
StropMa decumana Fer.
Castle Island Bahamas.
On pi.
VIII. fig.
1 will be found figures of the dentition of this species.
For full description see Annals of Ljc.
Nat.
Hist of N. Y. X. p. 348.
Bulimulus chrysalis Pfr.
Martinique.
Gov.
Rawson.
Jaw of the t3'pe common in Bulimulus Cilindrella etc. arcuate low ends blunt thin transparent  with eighteen narrow separated ribs  a transverse central line of reinforcement.
Attached to the upper margin is a strong triangular membrane of the same consistency and material as the jaw itself and equally resisting the action of potash so as readily to be mistaken for the accessory plate of the Succinese.
PI.
Y. fig.
11.
Lingual membrane pi.
Y. fig.
12 13 as usual in the Helicinse.
Centrals about as broad as long tricuspid the median cusp short and stout its short point not extending to the base of the plate.
Laterals like the centrals but bicuspid.
Marginals wide low with one inner long blunt stout oblique denticle and one or two short blunt side denticles.
Bulimulus Vincentimus Pfr. var.

Drymmus Tobago.
Jaw as usual in Bulimulus CyUndr'ella etc. thin transparent with numerous delicate separated narrow ribs.
Lingual membrane as in Bulimulus taiicinctus etc.
see Ann.
N. Y. Lye X. pi.
xi. fig.
1.
Bulimulus Knorri Pfr.
Drymceus.
Porto Cabello Yenezuela ReeeiAed mounted from the late Mr. Robert Swift.
Jaw arched high ends attenuated blunt  an obtuse median projection to cutting edge transverse lines of reinforcement but uo ribs.
An unusual form of jaw in this genus though common in many subgenera of Helix.
Bulimulus Peruvianus Brug.
Plectostylus .
Talcahuana.
Museum Comparative Zoologj Jaw as in Gylindrella etc. with about thirty delicate ribs  upper central plate triangular.
Lingual membrane pi.
Y. fig.
2 combining tlie usual characters of the genus with those peculiar to the group of B. laticinctus referred to above under B. Vincentinus.
The central tooth is higher than wide tricuspid the central cusp short not extending near the base of the tooth.
The laterals 5 in numljer are bicuspid the inner cusp with short subcircular cutting edge.
Marginals of the type of B. laticinctus 1. c.
Bulimus Pachyotus egregius Jay.
Brazil.
J. G. Anthony.
No jaw received.
Lingual membrane as usual in the Helicidae.
Centrals and laterals higher than wide the plates almost extending to the point of the cusps  central with a large median and small side cusps  lateral bicuspid the inner cusp very large and bluntly poiutevl the outer cusp very small and acutely pointed.
Marginals quadrate about as high as wide with one wide very short blunt inner cusp and a similar small outer cusp.
PI.
YI. fig.
1.
Succiuea Barbadeusis Guild.
Barbados.
Jaw and lingual membrane as usual in the genus.
Lithotis rupicola Blanford.
Figs.
36 of plate V. represent the jaw and lingual dentition of this species which are fully described in Ann.
Lye.
Nat.
Hist.
N. Y. X.
346.
Erinna Newcombi A. Adams.
.
Sandwich Islands.
Figs.
710 of plate Y. represent the jaw and lingual dentition of this species which have been fully described in Ann.
of N. Y. Lye.
of Nat.
Hist. X. p. 349.
Before closing this paper I propose reviewing my work on lingual dentition and jaws for the purpose of ascertaining what reliance may be placed on their characters as a basis for subgeueric distinction in the genera Helix and Bulimus.
Oi Buliviulus we cannot 3'et speak with confidence so poor is our material.
Sagda.
The genus is included in the Vitrinea of von Martens but we have shown that it belongs to the JSelicea the marginal teeth being quadrate not aculeate.
The jaw has no anterior ribs.
In H. Jayana there is an approach to a median projection to the cutting edge but not in Haldemaniana or Foremaniana.
The lingual membrane we have examined in connectens Jayana and Haldemaniana.
We figure that of the latter plate IX. fig.
4 with which the others agree.
The centrals have their plates short in comparison to the reflection and broad.
The middle cusp is long with a long slender point.
The side cusps are subobsolete with short acute triangular points.
The laterals are of same type as centrals but bicuspidtheouter cusp more developed than the external cusps of the centrals.
The marginals are wide low with one long oblique blunt narrow inner cusp and one or more side small cusps.
The dentition and jaw of this species are fully described in Am.
Journ.
Conch. VII.
115 S. connectens in Ibid.
175  S. Jayana in Ann.
N. Y. Lye x.
219.
Leucochroa.
We have shown L. Boissieri Charp. to belong to Helicea and not to Vifrinea and expressed our belief that the same will prove true of candidissima.
See Ann.
N. Y. Lye x.
220.
We now figure the dentition plate IX. fig.
3.
The jaw is ribless with a median projection.
Microphysa is put in Helicea by von Martens.
.
minuscula see L. and Fr w. Shells and circumfirmata Redf.
N. Y.
Ann. X.
231 both belong to Vitrinea having aculeate marginal teeth and jaw of Zonites.
H. turhiniformis Pfr.
Ann.
N. Y. Lye x.
79 pi.
ii.
fig.
2 has a jaw as in Cylindrella Bulimulus etc.
i. e. with numerous very delicate distant ribs giving the appearance of separate plates.
It would be put in Goniognatha of Morch though there are no upper triangular median plates.
We here figure the lingual dentition plate IX. fig.
7.
For Pafula Gonostoma Polygyra Polygyrella Stenotrema Triodopsis Mesodon Acanthinida Vallonia Aglaja Ai'ionta Euparypha Tachea Pomatia Glyptostoma see L. and Fr.
w. Shells N. A. I. and our various papers on dentition.
Dorcasia is known to us only by one species H. similaris Fer.
see Am.
Journ.
Conch. VII.
176.
The jaw has eight decided ribs.
I figure the lingual dentition plate IX. fig.
6.
Fruticicola is known to us only by H. griseola Pfr.
see Proc.
Phila.
Ac.
N.
S. 1873 243.
The dentition I now figure plate X. fig.
11.
Goryda.
We have described the lingual membrane only of this subgenus and that in only one species H. Gossei Pfr.
Am.
Journ.
Conch. VII.
177.
We figure it on plate IX. fig.
2.
The centrals have long narrow plates a very short reflection with a short blunt median cusp and obsolete side cusps.
Laterals like centrals but uns3'mmetrical.
Marginals quadrate with one broad oblique long bluntly bifid inner cusp and one or two very short rounded side cusps.
ThelidomiiH.
We have examined H. aspera Fer.
Am.
Journ.
Conch. YI.
204 discolor Fer.
ante p. 51 notahilis Shuttl.
Amer.
Journ.
Conch. VII.
177 Zina Fer.
ante p. 51 and provisoria Pfr.
Ann.
Lye.
N. Y. x.
347.
There are 8 decided stout ribs on the jaw of aspera 7 on that of discolor and lima on provisoria we find 1015 ribs less decided than in the other two species.
I figure the lingual dentition of H. discolor plate X. fig.
1.
H. aspera agrees with it.
The marginal teeth of provisoria and notahilis agree with those of aspera and discolor but as the centrals and laterals differ in the shape of the plates and the development of the cusps I also figure the central and lateral of nofabilis plate IX. fig.
10 with which prouz'soWa agrees.
Cysticopsis we know by tumida Pfr. and pemphigodes Pfr.
For description and figure of the former see Ann N. Y.
L3'C.
N. H. IX.
213 f. 3  Am.
Journ.
Conch. YI.
203 f. 1.
Finding the dentition o pemphigodes to be ditferent Am.
Journ.
Conch. YII.
177 I here figure it plate IX. fig.
1.
Plagioptycha.
We have published iT.
oao7on Pfr. Albersiana Pfi'. monodonta Lea diaphayia Lea and macroglossa.
See Am.
Journ.
Conch. YII.
177 178.
The' all agree in having a ribless jaw with blunt median projection to cutting edge and in dentition such as I figure for H. macroglossa Pfr.
plate X. fig.
10.
Pohjmita We have elsewhere Ann.
N. Y.
L3'C. x.
341 pointed out the necessit of revising this subgenus.
The t3'pical species muscarum and H. pticta which must be removed to it from Liochila have a ribless jaw without median projection to the cutting margin see Am.
Journ.
Conch. YI.
204 pi.
IX. f. 4 10.
The lingual dentition of both species agrees see ibid and Ann.
X. Y.
L3'C. X. pi.
xvi.
fig.
14.
It is entirel3' diflerent from that of an3species now known.
Hemilrochus must be used as the name for the balance of the subgenus Polymila of von Martens.
We have examined varians Mke.
Amer.
Journ.
Conch. YII.
206 and L. and Fr.
w. Shells I.
185  Troscheli Pfr.
Ann.
X. Y.
L3c. x.
343 graminicola.
Ad.
Am.
Journ.
Conch. YII.
178  gallopavonis Yal.
343.
N. Y.
Am.
X.
343.
All agree in having an arched ribless jaw with blunt median projection.
All have lingual dentition such as I figure of graminicola plate X. fig.
8.
Liochila.
As stated already p. 56 H. picta Born must be removed from this subgenus to Poni7a probably also H. sulphurosa. Mor.
Eurycratera has decided stout ribs on its jaw.
We have seen n. crispata Fer.
Am.
Journ.
Conch. YII.
n9 and H. arigulata Fer.
this paper p. 50.
The lingual dentition is essentially the same in each but on account of difference in the development of the points of the side cusp I figure that of each pi.
IX.
fig.
5 pi.
X. fig.
9.
Pohjdontes has the same type of dentition as in the last subgenus as shown in my figure of .
Luquillensis Shuttl.
plate X. fig.
24 the only species examined by us.
Jaw not seen.
Stylodon We have shown H. milifaris Pfr.
to be a Nanina Ann.
N. Y. Lye x.
169.
Other species unexamined by us.
Erepta.
The same may be said of H. stylodon Pfr.
see ante p. 48 and leucostyla Pfr. and rujizonata H. Ad.
Ann.
N. Y. Lye X.
169 all Mauritius species.
Dentellaria We have examined a large proportion of tlie known species.
The jaw varies somewhat so that each description should be studied.
There seems a tendenc3'to a median projection to the cutting edge and to the presence of ribs.
H.pachygastra.
Gray Ann.
N. Y. Lye x.
305 has 7 decided ribs and no median projection.
H. orbiculata Fer.
Am.
Journ.
Conch. VI.
205 pi.
ix.
f. 14 has traces of ribs and no median projection.
H. Isabella Fer.
i.e.
YII.
179 has decided ribs and no median irojection.
H.dentiens Fer.
Am.
Journ.
Conch. YII.
179 has decided rils and no median projection.
H. nueleola Rang ante p. 52 has one decided rib and a median projection.
H. hadia ante p. 52 has 8 decided ribs.
H. formosa Fer.
ante p. 52 has no ribs but a strong median projection.
H. perplexa Fer.
Ann.
X. Y.
Lye. x.
221 has obsolete ribsand median projection.
H. lychnuchus same as last Ann.
N. Y. Lye x.
221 pi.
xiv.
f. 5 7.
H. punctata Born ante p. 52 has median projection and decided ribs.
H. Josephinx Fer.
Ann.
N. Y. Lye x.
306 is strongl arched has no ribs but a median projection.
All the above species agree in their dentition.
See figure of that of lychnuchiis 1. e and of punctata plate IX. fig.
8 of this paper.
5 Pleurodonta The jaw in Ghemnitziana  Pfr.
ante p. 51 has T stout seijarated ribs  Carmelita Few has 6 ante p. 51 acuta.
Lam.
Amer.
Journ.
Conch. VI.
204 has 1 ribs.
Tlie linoual membrane is the same as I fionre for Carmelita plate X. fig.
5 in Schroteriana Amer.
Journ.
Conch. VII.
179 in invalida Ad.
Ann.
N. Y. Ljc x. ITO.
In acuta Lam.
the centrals and laterals are of the same type but the marginals have only one long wide blunt denticle slightly bifid at end.
In this respect it is more like Caracolus than the other species of Pleurodonta examined by us.
Caracolus.
We have shown H. Bermudensis Pfr.
Ann.
N. Y. Lye X.
221 to belong to Vitrininse  H. inversicolor 1. c. x.
169 to Nanina.
The jaw in H. marginella Gmel.
ante p. 51 appears to be ribbed.
I figure plate X fig.
GT the lingual dentition of H. excellens Pfr.
Am.
Journ.
Conch.
VII.
180.
H. marginella Gmel.
agrees with it excepting that the cusps of the marginals are shorter.
Leptoloma.
We have described only H. fuscocincta Ad.
Am.
Journ.
Conch. VII.
180.
The jaw has a median projection but no ribs.
Tiie lingual I figure on plate IX. fig.
9.
Acavus.
H. phcenix Pfr.
has a ribless jaw Am.
Journ.
Conch. VII.
180.
Its dentition is figured on plate IX. fig.
11.
In Bulimus we have examined the following genera Macrodontes we know by B. odontostomos Am.
Journ.
Conch. VI.
209.
The jaw is ribless.
The dentition is figured on plate VI. fig.
1.
Pelecychilus we know from B. au7'issileni Born Ann.
Lye.
N. H. N. Y. X.
229 and B. glaber Gmel.
not before published  both have delicate ribs as in Bulimulus Cylwdrella etc.
The dentition of the former is given on plate VI. fig.
4  of the latter on plate VI. fig.
6.
Anihinus we know from B. multicolor Rang Am.
Journ.
Conch. VI.
208.
The jaw is ribless.
Lingual dentition given on plate VI. fig.
8.
Pachyotus we know from B. egregius Jay see this paper p. 54.
Jaw not examined.
Lingual dentition figured on plate VI. fig.
1.
Bonis.
We have examined B. oblongus Mull.
Its ribbed jaw and lingual dentition are figured by Heynemann Mai.
Blatt. xv..
Of Orphnus we have examined one species B. Hanleyi Pfr.
Ara Jouvn.
Conch. YI.
208.
The jaw is ribless with a median projection.
The lingual dentition is given on plate VI. fig.
5.
Dryptus we have examined in two species B. pardalis Fdr.
Am.
Journ.
Conch. VII.
181 and B. marmoratus Dunk.
1. c.
The jaw of the latter is unknown.
In the former it is ribbed.
The lingual dentition of i.
marmoratus is given on plate VI. fig.
2.
In B. pardalis it has not been examined.
Eurytus we know from only one species B. aiilacosfylus Pfr.
Ann.
Lye.
N. H. N.
Y. x.
282.
The jaw has delicate ribs as in Bulimulus Cylindrella etc.
The lingual dentition is given on plate VI. fig.
3.
A comparison of the figures I have given of the lingual dentition of the subgenera of Bulimus shows a greater constancy in that genus than in Helix especially as regards the marginal teeth.
I add a figure of the dentition of Gochlostyla fulgetrum Brod.
plate v. figs.
1416.
See Am.
Journ.
Conch. VII.
180.
EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES.
Plate II.
A. Ariolimax NIGER J. G. Cooper.
The tail enlarged to show the caudal mucus pore.
From the type in the California State Collection preserved in spirit.
B. Ariolimax Columbianus
The tail slightly enlarged of a specimen from Mr. Hemphill see p. 35 showing the mucus pore.
It must be borne in mind that the specimen has long been preserved in spirit.
C. Ariolimax Columbianus
A specimen from San Mateo Co. California received from Mr. Henry Hemphill see p. 38.
The genitalia about life size.
1.
The testicle.
2.
The epididymis.
3.
The accessory gland of the last 
4.
The prostate gland.
5.
The sac of the penis.
6.
The retractor muscle of the penis.
T. The vas deferens.
8.
The oviduct.
9.
The genital bladder.
10.
The external orifice of the genitalia.
11.
The ovar3  16.
The duct of the genital bladder.
D. A portion of the digestive organs of the same.
1.
The buccal mass.
2.
The oesophagus.
3.
3.
The ducts of the salivarglands.
4.
4.
The salivary glands.
5.
The pouch of tlie lingual membrane.
E. The same an extreme marginal tooth of the lingual membrane.
r. Same as last life size.
14.
See fig.
D. 5.
The stomach.
6.
The blind sac of the same.
T T. The biliar ducts.
8.
The intestine.
9.
The rectum.
G. The same.
The rudimentarj' internal shell.
H. The same.
The jaw.
Plate III.
Fig.
I. ZoNiTES LviGATUS Raf.
The genital S3'stem.
Same references as in pi.
II.
fig.
c. 13.
Dart sac
See p. 39.
Fig.
II.
Helix reticulata Pfr.
 ramentosa Gld.
Genital system.
Same references as in fig.
1.
13.
Yaginal prostate.
13a o. riagella of same.
15.
Flagellum of penis.
16a.
Accessory to duct of genital bladder.
Fig.
III.
Helix Mitchelliana Lea.
Genital system.
Same references as in fig.
I.
Fig.
lY.
Helix Kelletti Forbes.
Genital system.
Same references as in fig.
II.
14.
Dart sac
See page 40.
Fig.
Y. Hemphillia glandulosa.
Genital system.
Same references as in fig.
I.
Fig.
YI.
The same.
See page 39 for 5a and 56.
Plate IV.
Fig.
I. Genitalia of Macrocyclis Vancouverensis Lea.
1.
Testicle.
2.
Epididymis.
3.
Accessory gland.
4.
Prostate.
5.
Sac of penis.
7.
Yas deferens.
8.
Oviduct.
9.
Genital bladder.
10.
External orifice.
11.
Ovary.
14.
Dart sac
vaginal prostate
16.
Duct of genital bladder.
Fig.
II.
Genitalia of Patula strigosa Gld.
Same references as in fig.
I.
Fig.
III.
Genitalia of Helix Nickliniana Lea.
Same references as in fig.
I.
6.
Retractor muscle of penis.
13.
Vaginal prostate.
13a.
Fiagellum to last.
15.
Fiagellum to penis.
16a.
Accessory duct to the genital bladder.
Fig.
IV.
Genitalia of Helix appressa Say.
Same references as in fig.
I. Fior.
V. Genitalia of H. Roemeri Pfr.
Same references as in fig.
I.
Plate V. Fig.
1.
Lingual dentition of Helix Texasiana Mor.
Central lateral and marginal teeth.
Fig.
2.
Same of Bulimulus Peruvianus Brug.
Fig.
3.
LiTHOTis rupicola B1.
Jaw.
Fig.
4.
Same  central and lateral teeth.
Fig.
5.
Same  marginal teeth.
Fig.
6.
Same  extreme marginal teeth.
Fig.
7.
Erinna Newcombi A.
Ad.
Jaw.
Fig.
8.
Same  central and lateral teeth.
Fig.
9.
Same  marginal teeth.
Fig.
10.
Same extreme marginal teeth.
Fig.
11.
BuLiMULUs CHRYSALIS Pfr.
Jaw.
Fig.
12.
Same  central and lateral teeth.
Fig.
13.
Same  nmrginal teeth.
Fig.
14.
CocHLOSTYLA FULGETRUM Brocl.
C anistrum  central and lateral teeth.
Fig.
15.
Same  first marginal teeth.
Fig.
IG.
Same extreme marginal teeth.
Fig.
17.
Helix Wetherbyi Bland  central and lateral teeth.
Fig.
18.
Same marginal teeth.
Plate YI.
Central lateral and marginal teeth of Fig.
1.
BuLiMUS EGREGius Jay Pachyotus.
Fig.
2.
MARMORATUS Dunk.
Dryptus.
Fig.
3.
AULACOSTYLUS Pfr.
Eurytns.
Fig.
4.
AURisSiLENi Born Pelecychilus.
Fig.
5.
Hanleyanus Pfr.
Oiyhnus.
Fig.
6.
GLABER Gmel.
Pelecychilus.
Fig.
7.
ODONTOSTOMus Sowb.
3Iacrodontes.
Fig.
8.
MULTICOLOR Rang.
Anthinus.
Plate VII.
Fig.
A. Amphibulima patula Briig.
Dominica.
Fig.
B.
Same to show variations in cusps of laterals.
Fig.
C. Amphibulima patula.
St. Kitts see p. 44.
Plate YIII.
Fig.
1.
Strophia decumana a.
Central and lateral teeth  b. marginal teeth.
Fig.
2.
Amphibulima rubescens Desh.
Jaw.
Fig.
3.
Same.
Lingual membrane a.
Central and lateral teeth  b. marginal teeth  c. extreme marginal teeth.
Fig.
4.
Same.
Genitalia.
Fig.
5.
Amphibulima appendiculata Pfr.
Genitalia.
Fig.
6.
Same.
Lingual membrane a.
Central and lateral teeth  b. marginal teeth.
Fig.
7.
GoNospiRA Newtoni H. Ad.
Genitalia.
Plate IX.
Lingual dentition  central lateral and marginal teeth of Fig.
1.
Helix pemphigodes Pfr. Gysiicopsis.
Fig 2.
Helix Gossei Pfi. Coryda.
Fig.
3.
Helix Boissieri Cliavp. Leucochroa.
Fig.
4.
Helix Haldemaniana Ad. Sagda.
Fig.
5.
Helix angulata Fr. Eury crater a.
Fig.
6.
Helix similaris Fer. Dorcasia.
Fig.
7.
Helix turbinifornis Ffr. Microphysa.
Fig.
8.
Helix punctata Born Dentellaria.
Fig.
9.
Helix fuscocincta Ad. Leptoloma.
Fig.
10.
Helix notabilis Fer. Thelidomus.
Fig.
11.
Helix phcenix Pfr. Acavua.
Plate X.
Central lateral and marginal teeth of lingual membrane of Fig.
1.
Helix discolor Fer. Thelidomus Fig.
2 3 4.
Helix luguillensis Shuttl. Polydontes.
Fig.
5.
Helix Carmelita Fer. Pleurodonta.
Fig.
6 7.
Helix excellens Pfr. Garacolua.
Fig.
8.
Helix graminicola.
Ad. PoJymita.
Fig.
9.
Helix crispata Fer. Eury crater a.
Fig.
10.
Helix macroglossa Pfr. Plagiopfycha.
Fig.
11.
Helix griseola Pfr. Fruticicola.
Plate XI.
A. Ariolimax NIGER J. G. Coop.
From the type in the California State collection.
Extreme marginal teeth from the lingual membrane.
B.
Same as last.
The central tooth and first lateral teeth.
C. Same as last.
The oenitalia enlarged.
References same as in fig.
C. of plate II.
13.
The vaginal prostate.
D. Ariolimax Californicus
From a specimen from San Mateo Cal. in the Museum of Comparative Zoology.
The genitalia slightly enlarged.
Same references as in last figure excepting 15 the flagellum.
E. Same as last.
The digestive organs life size.
Same references as in fig.
F. of plate II.
F. The same.
1.
Central tooth 2. first lateral tooth of the lingual membrane.
G. The same.
Extreme marginal tooth of the lingual membrane.
