PACIFIC OCEAN WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO THOSE OF ALASKA.
BY DR. R. BERGH COPENHAGEN.
PART II.
Diaulula Bgh.
Diauhila Bgh. Malacolog.
Unters.
Semper Philipp.II ii Ileftxiii 1878 p. 567  Heft xiv 1878 p. xxxv.
Gattungen nordischer Dorideu Arch.
f.
Naturg. xxxv 1 1879 p. 343.
Forma corporis subciepressa.
Dorsum minutissime villosum holosericeum molle.
Tentacula digitiformia
Apertura branchialis rotundata crenulata  folia branchialia tripinnata.
Podarium antice bilabiatum labio superiore medio fisso.
Aimatura labialis nulla
Lingua rhachide nuda pleuris multidentatis dentibus hamatis.
Prostata magua penis inermis.
In their general form the Diaidulx somewhat resemble the Discodorides and the TJwrdisee' although their habitus still is peculiar.
The back is villous as in these genera and especially as in the Thordisse but finer and more velvetlike.
The tentacles are fingershaped smaller than in the Discodorides larger than in the Thordisse.
The branchialflit is rounded crenulated  the branchial leaves tripinnate.
The anterior margin of the foot bilobed the upper lip broader with a median fissure.
As in the Thordisse there is no armature of the lipdisk.
The radula nearly agrees with that of the Diacodorides the rhachis is naked  on the pleurae there is a rather broad series of plates of the usual hookshape.
The stomach is enclosed in the liver not free as in the Discodorides and in the Thordisse.
As in the Discodorides there is a large prostate and an unarmed penis.
Only the following species appears to be hitherto known from the northern Pacific.
1.
D. Sandiegensis Cooper.
 Diaulus medicus of.
Martialis I 48 p. 40.
 Cf.
my Malacolog.
Untersuch.
Semper Philipj II ii Heft xii 1877 p. 518 iDiscodoris  p. 540 Thordisa
1.
D. Sandiegensis Cooper.
Plate V fig.
39.
Doris Aclinocyclus
Sandiegensis Cooper Proc.
of the California Acad of Nat.
Sciences ii 1862 1803 p. 204' iii 18G3 1868 p. 58.
Color corporis e brunneo lutescens annulis nigris maculatus  vel brunneus.
Habitat.
Oceanum Pacificum orient.
San Diego Bay Santa Barbara  Sitka Harbor Puget Sound.
According to Cooper numerous specimens of this species were found from November to May among grass on mud flats in San Diego Bay at or near low water mark  according to Cooper it is a very  active  species  Cooper later obtained two specimens at Santa Barbara Island on rocks at low water.
During the expedition to Alaska a specimen was taken by Dall in Sitka Hai'bor on alg in August 1865 at the depth of six fathoms another in August 1873 in Puget Sound by Dr. Kennerly on algae at low water.
Through the kindness of Dall I have seen the original rather rough drawings of this species by Cooper a colored one represents the back bright chocolatebrown with six black rings of which there are two smaller ones between the rhinophoria  the rhinophoria the gill and the foot seem brightyellowish  one figure shows five another six branchial leaves.
The length of the first specimen sent to me preserved in spirits was about 22.0 mm. the height reaching 9.0 mm. and the breadth 13.0 mm.
 the breadth of the foot reached 10.0 mm. the height of the rhinophoria 2.0 mm. the branchial leaves 3.3 mm.
The color was uniformly brownishgray  nearly symmetrically on each side of the true back was an annular black spot.
The form of the rather soft body elongateoval not much depressed.
The head quite concealed between the mantle and the foot the outer mouth had the form of a vertical slit  at each side a short fingershaped tentacle.
The margin of the rather large rhinophorholes rather prominent crenulate  the rhinophoria strong the club '  Pale brownishyellow with large annular brown spots irregularly scattered varying from twelve to twenty or entirely brown.
Surface slightly rough  sometimes a little tuberculated.
Dorsal tentacles conical retractile  branchiae large rising in five jiarts which become tripinnately divided expanding so as to cover the posterior third of the body like an umbrella.
Mouth proboscidiform with two short lateral tentacles.
Length 3 inches breadth 2 inches height  inch.
 Coopeu 1. c. 4 with about thirty leaves on each side.
The back all over minutely and densely villous fig.
3.
The margin of the rather wide 5.0 mm.
 roundish branchial aperture like the margin of the rhinophorholes prominent finely crenulate  the branchial leaves retracted six in number very strong trior quadripinnate.
The anus strong about 1 5 mm.
high cylindrical closing the branchial ring posteriorly  the renal pore as usual.
The edge of the mantle rather thick projecting about 2.0 mm.
from the body  the sides low.
The genital opening as usual with two distinct apertures at the bottom.
The foot strong broad somewhat narrower towards both ends  in the anterior margin a strong furrow towards the median line deeper and forming two lips  the superior broader and divided in the median line.
The cerebrovisceral ganglia kidneyshaped the visceral larger than the cerebral  the pedal of roundish contour scarcely larger than the visceral.
The buccal ganglia of oval form connected by a short commissure  the gastrooesophageal roundish shortstalked in size about onefifth of the former with one very large and one large cell.
The eyes shortstalked with black pigment and yellowish lens.
The otocysts scarcely smaller than the eyes overcrowded with otokonia of the usual kind.
The leaves of the rhinophoria strengthened with long perpendicular spicula calcified at the surface.
The tentacula with a mass of shorter but otherwise similar spicules lying irregularly.
The villi of the back closely set with perpendicular spicula lig.
3.
The anal papilla with long perpendicular spicules  the stalk of the branchial leaves with many shorter spicula irregularly situated  in the leaves themselves were no spicules.
In the interstitial connective tissue large spicules were seen rather sparsely.
The oral tube was about 1.5 mm.
long wide with strong longitudinal folds.
The bulbus pharyngeus only about 4.0 mm.
long by a htvight of 2.0 mm. and a breadth of 4.0 mm.
 the raspsheath very prominent on the hinder part of the under side of the bulbus  the inner mouth with a yellowish not thin cuticula.
The tongue with nine rows of teeth in the raspsheath also eleven rows of developed and two of not quite developed teeth the total number thus being twentytwo.
In the posterior rows of the tongue the number of plates was twentyeight or twentynine on each side and seemed in the succeeding rows not to surpass thirty.
The color of the teeth hornyellowish  the height of the outermost 0.06 to 0.08 mm. the height rising to about 0.18 mm.
The form of the teeth as usual the wing rather narrow  the innermost fig.
5aa h not very different from the Others fig.
.5 6 the body of the outermost three or four fig.
iaa T as usual of reduced size.
The glanduliE salivales 5.0 or G.O mm.
long in the anterior part about onethird larger than in the rest measuring 1.0 mm.
in diameter yellowish  in the rest of the length much narrower whitish.
The oesophagus is about 9.0 mm.
long rather wide.
The stomach is included in the liver not spacious.
The intestine appears on the surface of the liver in the usual manner passing forwards forming a short flexure and running straight backwards to the anal tube which has in its interior many fine longitudinal folds  the total length of the intestine about 20.0 mm. with fine longitudinal folds through its whole length.
The cavity was empty.
The liver yellowish about 17.0 mm.
long by a breadth of 8.0 mm. and a height of about 6.0 or 7.0 mm.
 the anterior end truncate the posterior end rounded  on the right side of the forepart a flattened impression for the anterior genital mass.
The vesica fellea as usual behind and at the left side of the pylorus elongatepyriform grayish taken together with its duct about 2.5 mm.
in length.
The heart as usual.
The two gland sanguines as usual whitish  the foremost more triangular about 3.5 mm.
long the posterior broader about 2.0 mm.
long.
The gland hermaphrodisiaca with a rather thick yellow layer clothing the greater part of the surface of the liver except the posterior end  in the lobules of the organ were rather large o'jgene cells and masses of zoJsperms The anterior genital mass large compressed about 10.0 mm.
long by a height of 6.3 mm. and a breadth of 3.0 mm.
The ampulla of the hermaphroditic duct strong grayish when unrolled about 250 mm.
long somewhat coiled on the anterior end of the left side of the mass and on its inferior flattened edge behind the large prostate  it reaches a diameter of 1.2 mm.
The male branch of the ampulla fig.
8a thin white passing into the narrow inferior end of the prostate thus forms the foreend of the whole genital mass.
The prostate fig.
86 is of dirty yellow color flattened and irregularly pyriform the length about 6.3 mm. by a breadth of as much as 3.0 mm.
 the spermatoduct fig.
8c issuing from the upper part of the posterior side of the gland in its first thicker part nearly as long as the prostate  in the rest of its length thinner making several coils and passing fig.
9a into the male organ.
The retracted penis fig.
Sd strong about 2.5 mm.
long the praiputium with fine longitudinal folds fig.
9 from the aperture upwards and nearly filled by the glans which had nearly the form of a human penis with a well developed head with round aperture  this head seemed covered with very small low and rounded soft papillae.
The spermatotheca were whitish spherical of the diameter of about 2.3 mm. filled with epithelium fatty matter and altered semen  the chief duct a little longer than the spermatotheca gradually passing into the simple vagina that was about half as much in length and was filled with sperma.
The spermatocysta of violetgray color somewhat flattened of oval outline of the length of about 2.3 mm. filled with sperma.
The posterior half or a little less of the large mucous and albuminous gland chalkwhite  the anterior more than half of grayish or on the left side yellowish color  the structure as usual.
A variety of the species according to Dall it also belongs to this species was moreover obtained by Dr. Kennerly in August 1873 on ulgas at low water in Puget Sound Washington Territory fig.
69.
The single individual was rather large  the length 40.0 mm. by a breadth of 28.0 mm. and a height of 13.0 mm.
 the breadth of the foot 15.0 mm. of the margin of the mantle 11.0 mm.
 the height of the rhinophoria 5.0 mm. of the branchial leaves nearly 5.0 mm.
The color of the upper side obscure olivegray with rather large diameter about 4.0 mm.
black and blackish spots  the under side yellowish.
The general form and the head with the tentacles as above described.
The openings of the rhinophorholes as above the club with about twentyfive leaves.
The branchial opening as above diameter 3.5 mm.
 the retracted branchial leaves six in number  the anal tube nearly 3.0 mm.
high.
The back villous as in the typical individual.
The foot as above.
The peritoneum colorless without larger spicula  but in the region of the ventricle of the heart the pericardium is brownish.
The central nervous system as above  the proximal olfactory ganglia bulbiform a little larger than the buccal  the distal ones smaller than the proximal at the root of the club of the rhinophoria.
The buccal ganglia of oval form  the commissure between them being about onethird of the largest diameter of the ganglia.
The eyes the octocysts the leaves of the rhinophoria and the villi of the back as above.
The oral tube large of a length and diameter of 4 mm.
The bulbus pharyngeus 4.0 mm.
long by a height of 4 and a breadth of 3.5 mm.
 the sheath of the radula less prominent than in the former specimen  the cuticula of the lip disk as above.
The tongue with ten rows of plates further back eleven developed and two younger rows the total number thus twentythree.
In the posterior rows of the tongue there were as many as thirtyfour dental plates on each side of the rhachis  they resembled those above described fig.
6 7.
The salivary glands yellowish ribbonshaped.
The stomach as above.
The anteriorly proceeding part of the intestine 7.0 mm.
long by a diameter of about 2.0 mm.
 the receding part about 20.0 mm.
long by a diameter of 1.5 mm.
In the stomach and the rectum were pieces of a Keratospongia and different Diatomacea.
The liver 23.0 mm.
long by a breadth and a height of 11.0 mm.
 the anterior end truncate with a median deep and narrow slit for the oesophagus and for the intestine  the right anterior half of the liver rather excavated especially beneath  the substance of the liver yellow.
The foremost glandula sanguinea about 4.5 mm.
long by a breadth of 2.5  the posterior 4.0 mm.
long by a breadth of 2.5 mm.
 both very flattened about 0.8 mm.
thick grayishyellow.
The kidney with its whitish network contrasting prettily with the yolkyellow hermaphroditic gland  the urinary chamber not wide  the tube on its floor thin.
The hermaphroditic gland clothing nearly the whole liver with its posterior end as in the former specimen.
The anterior genital mass about 11.5 mm.
long by a height of 9.5 and a breadth of 5.0 mm. the ducts also projecting 3.0 mm.
The ampulla of the hermaphroditic duct yellowishwhite about 35.0 mm.
long by sr diameter of 1.25 mm. running across the upper part of the left side of the genital mass and forming several windings on the anterior part of the upper margin.
The large prostate as above fig.
8b dirty yellow  7.5 mm.
long by a diameter at the upper end of about 4.0 mm.
 the part fig.
Sc from which the spermatoduct proceeds much brighter than the rest of the organ.
The thin spermatoduct forming fig.
8 a little coil at the upper end of the penis when unrolled about 12 mm.
long.
This last fig.
8rf 9 organ strong about 4.0 mm.
long by a diameter of 1.5 mm.
 the prominent orifice in the vestibulum fig.
8e with strong longitudinal folds the glans conical filling nearly half fig.
9 of the cavity of the organ the surface under a power of 350 smooth.
The spermatotheca whitish spherical with a diameter of 3.5 mm.
 the spermatocysta short sausageshaped about 4.0 mm.
long of reddishyellow color.
The duct from the spermatotheca to the vagina rather thick 3.5 mm.
long  the vagina larger than the penis 6.0 mm.
long by a diameter of 2.5  the inside with fine longitudinal folds and with sperma in the cavity.
The mucous gland large 9.0 mm.
long by a height of 7.5 and a thickness of 4.0 mm.
 whitish yellowish chalkwhite and yolkyellow  the duct rather short with the usual strong fold.
The vestibulum with longitudinal folds.
Jorunna Bergh.
Jorunna Bgh. Malacolog.
Unters.
Semper Philipp.
II ii Heft x 1876 p. 414 note.
Gatt.
nord.
Doriden Arch fiir Naturges. xxxv i 1879 p. 34.
Corpus subdepressum  dorsum minutissime granulatum subasperum branchia e foliis tripinnatis formata  tentacula digitiformia  podarium sat latum margine anteriore sulcatum labio superiore latiore et medio fisso.
Armatura labialis nulla
Radula rhachide nuda pleuris multidentatis dentibus hamatis.
Penis stylo armatus  glandula et hasta amatoria.
This genus was established by the author on the D. Johnstoni 1876 in reference to the results of the anatomical examination of Hancock and Embleton  he regarded it as nearly allied to the Kentrodorides just founded by him.
 After the present examination of the D. Johnstoni by the author he is not entirely certain of a generic difference between the Jorunnce and the Kentrodorides.
The latter have been examined only from rather insufficient material and the hasta has not been seen in any of the species only a papilla in connection with a peculiar gland  still the Kentrodorides are of a quite different habitus very soft and the upper lip of the anterior margin of the foot is more developed while the innermost plate of the tongue is somewhat different from the others.
If not identical with the Kentrodorides the Jorunnce are certainly very nearly allied to them.
The Jorunnce are rather depressed  the back finely granulated covered with equal minute papillulog  the retractile gill formed of tripinnate leaves  the tentacles digitifoim  the foot rather broad deeply grooved in the front margin and the upper lip of this larger and cleft in the middle line.
The lipdisk not armed covered with a simple cuticula.
The rhachis of the radula naked the pleurae with many hookformed plates.
In the vestibulum genitale are four apertures   R. Bergh Malacolog.
Unters.
Semper Philipp.
II ii Heft x 1876 p. 413 427 Tab.
XLIXLI.
 Jorunna Bjornis filia
LaxdiilaSaga.
Hafniae 1826 p. 21. one for the penis which is armed with a stylus  another for a hasta amatoria through which opens a peculiar gland quite as in the genus Asteronotus i a third for the vagina and the fourth for the duct of the mucous gland.
Only one species of the genus seems hitherto known belonging to the northern part of the Atlantic Ocean.
The spawn of the species is known from Alder and Hancock but nothing else is known of the biology of the animal.
1.
J. Johnstoni A. et H..
Doris Johnstoni A. et H. Oceauum Atlantic septentr.
Jorunna Johnstoni A. et H..
Plate VIII fig.
19  Plate IX fig.
lll.
Doris Johnstoni Alder et Hanc.
Monogr.
Part I 1845 fam.
1 PI.
.5  Part V 1851 fam.
1 PI.
2. f. 811.
Doris Johnstoni Hanc.
et Embleton Anat.
of Doris.
Philos.
Trans.
1853 II p. 212 215 216 220 233 PI.
XII f. 2 10  PI.
XIV f. 9 10  PI.
XV f. 12  pi.
XVII f. 23.
Doris Johnstoni Forbes and Hanley Hist of Br.
Moll. Ill 1853 p. 564.
.'
Doris tomentosa Cuv. Fischer.
Jouru.
de Conchyl. 3me Ser. x 1870 p. 290 293  XV 1875 p. 211 note.
.'
Doris tomentosa C. Verany catalogo.
1846 p. 1621.
Ver. Hanc.
et Embleton 1. c. 1852 p.
220.
' 
Doris tomentosa C. Philippi En.
Moll.
Sic.
I. 183 p. 104  II 1844 p. 79 Tab.
XIX f. 9.
Color flavescens dorso interdum maculis fuscis seriatis ornatus  rhinophoria fuscomaculata  branchia albescens.
Hab.
Oceanum Atlanticum septentr.
This species that was first described by Johnston under the name of D. ohvelata Miiller was 1845 established by Alder and Hancock.
Hancock gave a series of anatomical remarks upon this very interesting form and of figures referable to it.
Since then nothing new seems to have been published about the species  but a few months ago I 1.
0.
gave a short notice of the generic characters of the group.
Of this form I have only examined a single specimen captured in March 1870 in the neighborhood of Hellebak on the north coast of Seeland Denmark.
 R. Bergh Ueber das Geschlecbt Asteronotus Ehrbg.
Jahrb.
der Deutscheu Malakozool.
Ges. iv 1877 p. 161173 Taf.
III.
 According to Hancock and Embleton 1. c p. 220 the dart hasta amatoria in Doris Johnstoni is straight in D. tomentosa Ver. curved.
The specimen was of a uniform yellowish color  the rhinophoria finely dotted with brown but not the branchial leaves.
The length of the rather contracted and somewhat contorted individual was about 18.0 mm.
by a greatest breadth of 10.0 and a height of about Y.O mm.
 the height of the retracted rhinophoria 2.5 of the tentacles nearly 1.5 of the retracted gill 2.5 mm.
 the greatest breadth of the mantlemargin 3.5 mm. of the foot 5 mm.
The form is elongateoval the mantlemargin rather thick not very broad.
The back covered all over with very minute granules sometimes especially on the middle of the back crowded in irregular and roundish small groups  the under side of the mantlemargin smooth.
The contracted openings of the rhinophorholes appear as a simple transverse slit the granules of the back reaching forward to the opening those in this neighborhood not larger than the rest.
The club of the rhinophoria stout with about thirty broad leaves.
The opening of the gillcavity small transverse triangularcrescentic with the convexity forwards as contracted  the granules of the back reaching to the very margin of the gillslit but not larger than the rest.
The gill consisting of eleven branchial leaves five lateral pairs and an anterior unpaired leaf the anal tube low truncate nearly central the renal pore at its right side.
The head rather small  the tentacles digitiform somewhat flattened.
The sides of the body nearly imperceptible  the genital opening contracted.
 The foot rather strong somewhat pointed at the end  the anterior margin with a deep furrow the superior lip rather strong and prominent cleft in the median line.
The peritoneum with very fine dark points brown black spread everywhere  entirely without true spicules.
The central nervous system showed the cerebrovisceral ganglia somewhat elongate thicker and broader in the posterior part nearly not excavated in the exterior margin  the pedal ones of oval form larger than the visceral.
The olfactory ganglia very shortstalked bulbiform a little smaller than the buccal  a small optic ganglion the optic nerve short.
At the inferior side of the posterior part of the right visceral fig la ganglion is a shortstalked fig.
lb ganglion genitale giving off several nerves one of them has at its root another ganglion fig.
Ic.
The common commissure not longer than the ' Alder and Hancock mention merely ten to fifteen leaves.
 Alder and Hancock mention fifteen leaves. '
The representation of the penis 
1. c. PI.
5 f. 3 by Alder and Haacock cannot be correct.
transverse diameter of the pedal ganglion rather strong.
The buccal ganglia of roundish form connected through a very short commissure  the gastrotiesophageal ganglia shortstalked reaching scarcely onequarter of the size of the former with one very large and some smaller cells.'
The eyes with black pigment and shining hornyellow lens.
The otocysts at the slight emargination at the outer margin of the cerebrovisceral ganglia crammed with otokonia of the usual kind.
The broad leaves of the rhinophoria stiffened in the usual way by long much calcified spicula perpendicular on the free margin of the leaves.
The skin of the back crowded with spicula mostly very large and much calcified in the rather low height 0.5 mm.
granules fig.
2 crowded erect spicules.
In the interstitial tissue of the intestines true spicula are neither many nor large.
The mouthtube about 2.0 mm.
long strong rather wide quite as usual.
The bulbus pharyngeus .3.0 mm.
long with a height of 2.8 and reaching a breadth of 2.5 mm.
 the raspsheath also projecting 1.0 mm.
from the hindermost part of the under side of the bullus.
The form of the bulbus and its retractors as usual  the lipdisk whitish clothed with a yellowish cuticula.
The tongue of usual form  on the shining hornyyellow radula eleven rows of teeth further backwards twelve developed and four younger rows  the total number of rows thus twentyseven.
3 The teeth of yellowish color  the height of the outermost 0.06 of the next 0.08 mm.
 the height reaches at most about 0.22 mm.
The two foremost rows were rather incomplete in the fourth row were twentyfour and the number of teeth then increases to twentyseven. The rhachis fig.
3a rather broad.
The plates of the usual form with the usual winglike expansion of the exterior part of the body and of the root of the hook figs.
4 5  the first fig.
3 with lower hook which on the succeeding teeth slowly 1 This representation of the central nervous system in most points agrees with that of Hancock and Embleton 1. c. p. 233 PI.
XVII tig.
2 3.
2 Collingwood Annals and Mag.
of N.
Hist. 3 Ser. Ill ISjQ p. 462 mentions the spicules of this species from the estuary of the Mersey as very elegant consisting of a broad embossed phte with a double and beautifully serrated edge tei'minating abruiitly in a blunt apex.
 Alder and Hancock mention twentyfour rows whereof eleven were on the tongue.
 Alder and Hancock mention twentyfive plates in the rows.
 Cf.
my Malacolog.
Unters.
Semper Philipp.
II ii Heft XIV. 1878 Asteronotus p. 036. increases in height  then the teeth keep the same height and decrease again in the outer part of the rows fig.
5  the four to six interior teeth are more erect with shorter body and thinner hook figs.
5 G.
The salivary glands long thin whitish. The esophagus about 6 mm.
long rather wide with strong longitudinal folds.The stomach small included in the liver  the biliary apertures as usual.
The intestine issues through the liver behind the region of junction of the first and second third of the liver  the first anteriorly proceeding part lodged in a groove on the superior side of the liver not passing beyond the antei'ior margin of that organ about 2.5 mm.
in length  the rest of the intestine about 10.0 mm.
in length  the diameter of the intestine 0.81.3 mm.
 the longitudinal folds rather strong.
The liver of yellowish color more grayish on the surface 9.0 mm.
in length by a breadth of 5.5 and a height of 4.0 mm.
 the posterior end rounded  more than the anterior half of the under side especially its right part is excavated for the anterior genital mass and behind this is a deep transverse groove.
The vesica fellea lying at the left side of the offshoot of the intestine rather small in height about 1.25 mm. reaching nearly to the surface of the liver nearly cylindrical.
The heart as usual.
The sanguineous glands whitish rather flattened  the anterior obliquely triangular with the point as usual adhering to the under side of the junction of the two cerebral ganglia  in length 2.0 by a breadth of 1.5 mm.
 the posterior transversely elongateoval with a breadth of 3.5 by a length of 1.5 mm.
The renal syrinx melonshaped its largest diameter about 0.75 mm.
 its free duct nearly three times as long  a strong continuation of it passing along the floor of the rather large renal chamber to the region of the pylorus.
The hermaphroditic gland spread in large groups of ramifications over nearly the whole liver and by its brighter yellowish color somewhat contrasted with it  in its lobules were masses of zoJsperHis and rather small ojgene cells.
The anterior genital mass in length 5.0 by a breadth of 2.5 and a height of 4.0 mm.
 the right side rather convex meeting the more flattened left side at the sharp superior margin  They are in this way also mentioned by H. and E. 1. c p. 215 PI XII fig.
2cc .
2 The dilatation on the oesophagus mentioned and figured by H. and E. 1. c p. 215 PI.
XII fig.
2d could not be seen in the specimen examined by me.
 Cf.
the PI.
XIV f. 9 of Hancock and Embleton.
the under side flattened.
The ampulla of the hermaphroditic gland resting on the superior posterior part of the genital mass whitish making a large curve about 5.0 mm.
long with a diameter of nearly 1.5 mm.
The spermatoduct in its first part as near as could be determined rather thick than thin not very long forming fig.
He 7e a little coil on the upper end of the penis.
The penis fig.
7 cylindrical curved about 2.5 mm.
long by a diameter of about 0.8 mm.
 the inside with many longitudinal folds  at the upper end of its cavity a low truncated conical prominence fig.
115 with a rather wide aperture fig.
lib through which opens a little bag fig.
11 whose inside was clothed with a thin yellowish cuticula and contained a hollow nearly colorless tube that could be extended by tension  it was probably pointed the point seemed broken ofl'  its length was about 0.9 mm.
 the spermatoduct opened fig.
11a in the upper part of this bag.
Hancock has 1. c. PI.
XIV fig.
dc 10 PI.
XV fig.
1 2 seen the penis and the stiletto but he too seems 1. c. p. 220 not at all clear about these organs.
At the side of the opening for the penis in the vestibulum genitale was another aperture which led into a bag from whose bottom projected a hard whitish somewhat compressed conical spur fig.
Id 10 that under the influence of nitric acid grew more pellucid but developed very little gas  through the axis of the organ down to the fine aperture on the point passes a slender tube fig.
10 the continuation of the fine coiled duct of the gland of the organ.
 This gland glandula hastatoria fig.
7e Sd overlies the upper part of the vagina fig.
1ai  it is heartshaped of a transverse diameter breadth of 2.0 and a thickness of 1.0 mm.
 the gland did not contain any larger cavity.
The spermatotheca fig.
8a whitish nearly spherical having a largest diameter of 2.5 mm.
 filled with fatty cells and detritus  the two ducts fig.
8e e as usual the vagina rather wide fig.
7a b with longitudinal folds on the inside.
The spermatocysta yellowish spherical 1.5 mm.
in diameter fig.
8b filled with zoV.sperms  shortstalked.
The mucous gland not forming quite half of the anterior genital mass consisting of a smaller anterior biconvex part and a large flattened winglike posterior part  the space between them nearly filled by the spermatotheca  These organs the gland and the spur have also been seen 1. c PI.
XV fig.
9 by Hancock but lie does not mention them in the text and explanation of the figures.
In another of his figures fig.
105 the spur is designated 1. c. p. 248 as male intromittent organ ' and the fig.
lOe  true penis as penislike organ furnished with a stiletto  4 and the spermatocysta the color of the gland yellowishwhite on the left side of the anterior part a central yellow mass the duct of the mucous gland rather short.
All the former genera of Dorididce belonored to the larfje roup of Dorididee cryptohranchiatse  the following are to be registered in the group of Dorididce eleiitherohranchiatse D. phanerohrancliiatse.
This section is also characterized by the nonretractility of the gill by a suckingcrop connected with the bulbus pharyngeus and by a peculiar armature of the tongue consisting usually of a single large lateral plate and a single or several outer plates.
This group seems chiefly limited to nortliern climes and contains at present the genera Akiodoris Acantlwdoris Adalarid LameUidoris Goniodoris and Doridunculus' also Ancula Drepania and Idalia.
AKIODORIS Bcrgh Akiodoris Bgh.
Gattungen nordisclier Dorideu 1. c 1879 p. 354.
Forma ut in LameUidoridibiis.
Nothseum supra granulosum.
Branchia non retractilis e fuliis tripinnatis non multis et ad modum ferri equini positis formata.
Caput latum veliforme  tentaculis brevibus lobiformibus.
Apei turte rhinophoriales integrse.
Discus labialis sine armatura.
Ingluvies buccalis bulbo connata.
Radula rhachide quasi nuda  pleuris dentibus lateralibus depj'essis non multis 1213 quorum duo intimi fortiores quasi subhamati.
Penis glande uncis simplicibus furcatis vel palmatis armatus.
Vagina indumento valloso peculiari instructa.
The animals belonging to this group resemble externally especially the LameUidorides.
The back is finely granulated  the head large veilshaped with short tentacles which are lobate and pointed The openings of the rhinophorholes with plain margins surrounded by several larger papilla.
The non retractile branchia nearly horseshoeshaped consisting of a mediocre number of leaves.
The lipdisk  Cf.
my Gattungen nordisclier Doriden 1. c. p. 341.
 The genu Doridu7iculus of G. O. Sars fMoll.
regionis ai'cticse Xorveg. 1878 p. 309.
Tab.
27 fig.
2ad Tab.
XIV fig.
5 whicli externally approaches Goniodoris and other Dorididce eleutherobranchiaton in the character of the radula is hitherto only known from the northeas'ern part of the Atlantic Lofoten and by a single species D. ecliinulatus S. .
 In the Ancula and Drepanice the penis is armed as in so many Dorididce with a series of small hooks.
without armature.
The tongue with transverse thickenings of the rhacliis  the lateral plates somewhat depressed  the two first different from the rest larger and with a denticle at the root of the hook  the rest without any such the external quite without a liook.
A suckingcrop on the upper side of the bulbus pharyngeus but sessile depressed conical and not consisting of two symmetrical halves.
The large stomach free on the surface of the liver.
The glans of the long penis with a strong and quite peculiar armature consisting of strong hooks partly simple partly bifurcate and partly digitate with strong digitations.
The vagina with a peculiar armature of high palisades.
This interesting genus externally most resembles the LameUidorides both in reference to the nature of the back to the form and size of the gill and in the want of armature of the lipdisk  the region of the openings of the rhinophorholes differ in the want of a glabella and by the presence of a larger number of surrounding papilte.
The genital opening somewhat recalls the Acanthodorides as do also the tripinnate branchial leaves and the suckingcrop but this is not divided in two distinct halves as in this last genus.
The armature of the tongue is very different from that of the LamelUdorides Adalarise and Acanthodorides  the large hookformed lateral plates of these genera are wanting and in their places are two large depressed lateral plates with small hooks  the external plates somewhat recalling those of the Adalarise  the rhachis rather broad with transverse thickenings of the cuticula corresponding to the rows of plates.
In the very peculiar form of armature of the glans penis and by the peculiar clothing of the vagina the Akiodorides differ from all the abovecited genera.
Only a single species of the genus is hitherto known the new one that wnll be described below.
1.
Ak.
lulescens Bgli. n. sp.
Oceanum Pacificum.
1.
Ak.
lutescens Bgh. n. sp.
PI.
IV fig.
3 pi.
V fig.
11U pi.
VI fig.
120 pi.
VII fig.
18 pi.
VIII fig.
12.
Color lutescens.
Habitat.
Oceanum Pacificum septentrion.
Nazan Bay.
Of this form I have had a large single specimen for examination obtained in August 1873 by Dall on stony bottom at low water in Nazan Bay Atka Island Aleutians.
According to Dal the color of the living animal was yellowishwhite preserved in spirits it was of a uniform dirty yellowish color.
The length was 32.0 mm. by a breadth of 19.0 mm. and a height of 13.0 mm  the breadth of the foot 12.5 mm. of the mantlebrim 3.0 mm.
 the height of the rhinophoria 3.0 mm. of the branchial leaves 2.5 mm.
 the length of the genital opening 2.25 mm.
The form was elongateoval somewhat larger than that of the Lam.
hilamellata.
The papillae of the back relatively smaller and more rounded than in that animal.
The openings of the rhinophorholes an oblique oval slit  the margins plain  several six to eight larger papilliB of about 1.0 mm.
in height in the immediate vicinity of the holes  the club of the rhinophoria with about thirty leaves.
The branchia with about ten leaves.
The anal papilla low with a stellate aperture  the renal orifice as usual  the interbranchial space crowded with rather pointed and high papillae.
The head and tentacles as in allied forms.
The genital papilla of oval form with a large longitudinal crescentic slit.
The rather broad foot with the usual anterior marginal furrow.
The peritoneum colorless without spicula.
The central nervous system more flattened than in allied forms  the cerebrovisceral ganglia reniform a little broader in the anterior part  the pedal ganglia less flattened than the former larger than the visceral ones of oval form on the outside of the cerebrovisceral.
The proximal olfactory ganglia a little smaller than the buccal ones bulbiform  distal ganglia could not be found.
The commissure not broad not short.
The buccal ganglia of oval form closely connected  the gastrooesophageal roundish rather longstalked in size about onesixth of the former with one large cell and several three or four smaller ones.
The nervi optici rather long the eyes with yellowish lens and black pigment.
The otocysts in the usual place filled with otokonia of the usual kind.
The leaves of the club of the rhinophoria very richly furnished with thick diameter 0.04 mm.
and long spicula more or less calcareous and very often giving off a thick twig of greater or less length PI V fig.
12  for the most part set perpendicularly or obliquely on the free margin of the leaves.
The axes of the organs and the short stalk stuffed with strong and very much calcified spicules.
In the skin of the back a mass of spicula of the same kind PI.
IV fig.
13 as above or still more hardened  the papillie of the back solidified in the usual way PI.
V fig.
11.
In the interstitial tissue fewer and smaller spicules.
The oral tube rather short wide.
The bulbus pharyngeus of usual form about 5.5 mm long by a height of 4.5 ram. and at the upper part of the suckingcrop of 5.5 mm.
 and a breadth of 4.75 mm.
 the sheath of the radula projecting about 1.3 mm.
backwards and downwards.
The lipdisk large clothed with a thick yellow cuticula  the true mouth forming a narrow vertical slit.
The capshaped suckingcrop almost exactly as in Ac.
pilosa but more conical and without external signs of duplication  on the inside clothed with a yellowish cuticula opening into the buccal cavity through a wide slit.
The tongue rather broad  on the fine reddishyellow colored radula seventeen rows of teeth also on the point of the tongue were traces of six entirely vanished rows  the two first rows very incomplete reduced to some external plates.
Further backwards were seen fortytwo developed and three younger rows or all in all the animal presented sixtytwo rows of teeth.
The most external plate of each row is quite colorless the next two or three pale yellowish the following all of hornyyellow color  the rhachis colorless.
The length of the most external plate about 0.0.35 mm. of the next about 0.05 mm. of the following 0.07 mm.
 the length of the second large plate about 0.2 mm. of the first 0.022 mm.
 the breadth of the rhachis about 0.22 mm.
The rhachis thickened between the rows and forming arched elevations between them PI.
VI fig.
la 3  PI.
VIII fig.
la.
The first two plates rather large PI.
VI fig.
Ibb cc 46 PI.
VIII fig.
16 c  with a short strong hook and a stout denticle at each side of it the outer denticle broader  the hook of the second plate somewhat larger than that of the first  sometimes a slight crenulation on the outer margin of the first plate fig.
5.
All the following ten or eleven plates PI.
VI fig.
2e  PI.
VIII fig.
2a b of the same type by degrees decreasing in size consisting of a quadrilateral basal part from which PI.
VI fig.
713 in most of them rises a strong short broad hook  the two or three outmost plates PI VI fig.
2 PI.
VIII fig.
2 formed of the basal part alone  the rest with the hook gradually more developed The salivary glands yellowishwhite flattened ribbonshaped of about 10.5 mm.
in length reaching to the cardia where they are agglutinated one to another  the breadth in the foremost part about 0.75 mm  in the middle 1.5 mm. the posterior part again somewhat narrower  the duct of the gland rather short.
The oesophagus rather wide about 13.0 mm.
long the inside with rather strong longitudinal folds  it opens into the stomach which lies free in a cleft on the upper side of the liver.
This organ PI.
VI fig.
17a is of oval form of about 3.5 ram.
largest diameter the inside with rather strong longitudinal folds the pylorus fig.
17 in the neighborhood of the cardia.
The intestine advancing from the stomach to the foreend fig.
176 of the liver in this part about 10.0 mm.
long  forming a knee and retrograding to the anal nipple in a length of 23.0 mm.
The contents of the stomach were indeterminable animal matter mixed with some diatomacea.
The liver 20.0 mm.
long by a height of 10.0 mm.
and a breadth of about 12.0 mm.
 the posterior end rounded  a little more than the anterior half of the under side obliquely flattened by the anterior genital mass showing the cardiac end of the a5ophagus and the root of the hermaphroditic duct.
On the anterior part of the upper surface is a cleft for the stomach and for the biliary sac  the color of the surface and of the substance of the liver is grayishyellow.
The biliary sac fig.
17c lying before the stomach on the right side of the intestine large fas the stomach somewhat flattened grayish of rounded outline and about 4.5 mm.
largest diameter  the contents as in the stomach.
The heart as usual.
The sanguineous gland whitish entirely covering the nervous system about G.O mm.
long by a breadth of 4.5 and a height of only 1.0 mm.
The hermaphroditic gland yolkyellow covering the upper side of the liver with a thick layer  in its lobes large o'jgene cells and masses of zoJsperms.
The anterior genital mass large about 14.0 mm.
long by a breadth of 9.0 and a height of 11.0 mm. flattened and a little excavated on the left side with an excavation on the fore side the right side very convex.
The hermaphroditic duct whitish rather thin diameter about 0.751.0 mm.
 passing straight over the left side of the genital mass to its anterior end without formation of any distinct ampulla.
The first part of the spermatoduct whitish forming several long windings on the upper part of the forepart of the mass and passing into the yellowish PI.
VI fig.
18a continuation  this with its numerous coils forms a large flattened layer on the foreend of the right side of the mass  it then rather suddenly passes into a much thinner whitish continuation fig.
I8b about 6 mm.
long that slopes fig.
18c into the penis which retracted was lying on the lowest anterior part of the right side of the mass.
The penis was cylindrical of the length of 11.0 mm.
by a diameter of 1.5 mm.
 the truncated cylindrical yellowish under a magnifier nodulous glans forming PL V fig.
13 14 a prominence of the length of nearly 1.0 mm.
in the vestibulum.
This glans was partly covered on the outer side fig.
13 14 but especially on the margin of the wide gaping orifice and on its inside for a length of about 4.0 mm.
PI.
VII figs.
24 with rather crowded and apparently irregularly set claws.
The claws were very strong and for the most part broad and high fig.
3 4 even reaching a height of about 0.3 mm.
fig.
4.
In the interior of the glans especially in its posterior part fig.
5c the claws were less broad and simply uncinate or bifurcated otherwise mostly broader and with digitations of the margin.
The body of the claws was plain or curved  the end simply pointed bior trifurcate or with digitations sometimes very strangely formed.
They consisted of a cuticula and its matrix  very often especially on the outside of the glans the cuticula was torn off and the fig.
20 rounded or pointed naked matrix was left.
The whitish spherical spermatotheca PL VI fig.
19a was about 3.5 mm.
in diameter laterally communicating tnrough a short petiolus adhering to tne upper end of the vagina with a sinuosity intO' which opens the elongate yellowish spermatocysta fig.
19i which had a length of about 2.0 mm. and from which issues the long duct of the mucous gland fig.
19c.
The grayish vagina very strong fig.
18e.
about 7.0 mm.
long elongateconical the lowest part wide having a diameter of about 3.25 mm.
 the walls thick with a very peculiar internal lining consisting of cylindrical palisades PI.
VII fig.
68 of a height of about 0.4 by a greatest diameter of 0.070.08 mm.
 between the larger were seen smaller and very small ones.
The palisades seemed to be densely clothed fig.
8 with cilia and showed a nearly colorless axis fig.
6 8 up to their points  the axes were often denuded fig.
6 after the sheath has been torn away.
This lining continued up to the superior end of the vagina but not beyond it.
The mucous gland large whitish and yellowishwhite  the anterior half yolkyellow denuded on the foreend of the genital mass  the duct short.
A variety PI.
VI fig.
1420 of this species has also been found by Dall in July 1873 at low water in Kyska Harbor Aleutians.
According to Dall the color of the living animal was  yellowish.
T he animal preserved in spirits was of a uniform light yellowish color.
The length about 18.0 mm.
by a breadth reaching 8.0 mm and a height of 6.0 mm.
 the breadth of the foot at the foreend 5.0 mm. the margin of the mantle freely projecting 1.5 mm.
 the height of the rhinophoria ' 1.5 mm. of the branchial leaves 1.5 mm.
Around the plain margins of the rhinophorholes seven to nine large conical tubercles  the club of the rhinophoria with about twenty leaves Around the branchial 5 ring as well as in the centre of it around the vent rather large conical tubercles 1.5 mm.
in height the branchial leaves fifteen in number as far as could be determined.
The oral tube strong 4.5 mm.
long wide.
The bulbus pharyngeus about 5.5 mm.
long by a height of 3.0 and a breadth of 3.75 mm.
 the raspsheath about 1.75 mm. freely projecting bent upwards.
The cuticula of the lipdisk yellowish.
The tongue with about thirtyfive rows of plates fig.
1416  further backwards twentyfive developed and four younger rows  the total number of rows sixtyfour On the posterior part of the tongue fourteen plates the number increasing backwards to fifteen or sixteen.
The five anterior rows very incomplete only represented by 1 7 9 10 12 plates on each side.
The plates as above.
The breadth of the rhachis reaching to about 0.17 mm.
The glandulae salivales 6.0 mm.
long.
The stomach fig.
17o about 4.0 mm.
long.
The contents of the digestive cavity a mass of sponge.
The vesica fellea fig.
17c about 2.5 mm.
high with strong folds on the inside.
The anterior genital mass quite as above also the spermatotheca and the spermatocysta fig.
19j the penis fig.
18 20 and the vagina fig.
18 19.
LAMELLIDORIS Alder et Hancock.
Lamellidoris A. et H. Monogr.
Brit.
Nudibi.
Moll. Part VII 1855 p. xvii.
Lamellidoris A. et H. R. Beigh Malacolog.
Untersuch.
Semper Philipp.
II ii.
Heft xiv 1878 p. 603615.
Lamellidoris A. et H. R. Bergh Gatt.
nord.
Doriden 1. c 1879 p. 362365.
Corpus vix depressum nothoeo granulate.
Branchia non retractilis e foliis multis simplicita pinnatis ut plurimura in formam ferri equini dispositis formata.
Caput latum semilunare angulis tentacularibus.
Aperturte rhinophoriales margine integro  tuberculis anticis 23 calvitie postica.
Cuticula apertura
oralis infra asserculis duobus incrassata et ante annulus papillarum angustus.
Lingua rhachide lamellis humilibus instructa  pleuris dente interno hamiforrai permaguo et externo compresso lamelliformi unco minuto pradito armatis.
Ingluvies buccalis suctoria petiolo bulbo pharyngeo connata tympaniformis.
Penis apice glaude curvatus non armatus.
Vagina brevis.
The genus Lamellidoris was established 1855 by Alder and Hancock to receive two small groups of Dorididee. one with the D. hilamellata as type to which especially the name of the group is here restricted  and the other characterized by a more depressed form and the naked rhachis of the tongue with the B. depressa A. et H. as type.
Hancock has given some anatomical remarks on the typical form D. bilamellata L.  but nothing else had been since made known about these animals' until my just cited notice and those of G. O. Sars.2 The Lamellidorides approach the Acanthodorides but differ even here externally by the coarsely granulated surface of the back and by the larger number of the branchial leaves which are set in the form of a horseshoe  the openings of the rhinophorholes the tentacles as well as the genital opening are also of a different shape.
More notable still are the anatomical differences  the Lamellidorides want the armature of the lipdisk which is found in the other group  the armature of the tongue is quite different 1 I  1  I 1 and the buccal crop is connected with the bulbus pharyngeus by a stalk.
The penis is quite different from that of the Acanthodorides and without true armature  the vagina is short.
After all the Lamellidorides are much more allied to the Adalarice.
The form of the body as in the Acanthodorides not very depressed.
The back covered all over with semiglobular and short clubformed papillae.
The openings of the rhinophorholes with plain margins and 1 According to H.  A Adams the Gen. of Recent Moll. II 1858 p. 657 Lamellidoris is a synonym of  OncMdoris Blv. which name is employed by Adams for a group whose type should be D. pusilla A. ec H. that scarcely belongs to the true Lamellidorides.
Cf.
also Gray Guide I 1857 p. 307.
The genus Onchidoris of Blainville Man.
de Malac 1825 p. 489 PI.
XLVI f.
8.
 ought to be rejected entirely as founded very likely only on bad observation  the genus figures with nearly impossible characters both in relation to the tentacles quatre teutacules comme dans les Dori outre deux appendices labiaux and to the anus median a la partie inferieure et posterieure du rebord du manteau.
The type of the genus Blainville found in the British Mus.
London where it seemed to have disappeared at least it was not to be found in the collection of nudibranchiates which I looked over in May 1873 while on the coutraiy I found the longlost type of the genus Linguella Blv. in his original glass and so have reestablished the denomination Linguella for the much later 1861 Sancara Bgh.
Cf.
my Malacolog.
Unters. Heft vi 1874 p. 248.
Later Mr. Abraham 1. c. p. 235 seems to have found the original specimen again.
 G. O. Sars Moll.
reg.
arct.
Norv. 1878 p. 306.
Tab.
XIII figs.
5 6  Tab.
XIV fig.
2 3. commonly two larger papillae before and a bare space behind them.
The gill not retractile consisting chiefly of several usually 2030 tripinnate leaves set in the form of a horseshoe.
The head large veilformed semilunar with produced and pointed sideparts which are adherent to the foot nearly to the point.
The genital openings not being a slit but on a large tubercle.
The cuticula of the oral aperture is thickened below near the median line into a ledge  and on the outside is a ring of hard papillae.
The buccal crop connected through a petiolus with the foremost part of the upper side of the bulbus pharyngeus is drumshaped  on the inside clothed with a strong cuticula.
The tongue has on the rhachis short compressed lamellce on each side of these is a very large upright plate with large compressed body and a hook which on the inside is either plain or denticulated j at the outside of this plate is another compressed but much smaller and with a little rudimentary hook.
The salivary glands forming a short coiled mass at each side of the root of the oesophagus.
The oesophagus without diverticle at its origin.
The spermatoduct as in the Acanthodorides very long  the penis short its glans curved and clothed with a rather thick cuticula but otherwise not armed.
The spermatocysta imbedded in the mucous gland   the vagina short.
About the biological relations of the animals belonging to this group very little is hitherto known.
Where the species occur they seem to be rather abundant in individuals cf.
about the Lam.
bilamellata Collingwood in Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist. 3 S. Ill 1859 p. 463.
The spawn of several species L. bilamellata L. diaphana L. inconspicua L. aspera L. depressa L. pusilla has been described by Alder and Hancock and that of a single species Z. muricata by Sars Meyer and Moebius etc.
The first stages of the development of this last form have been followed by Sars  The group seems limited to the northern part of the Atlantic and of the Pacific.
To the same belong with certainty some properly examined species and besides several others mentioned in the literature can with more or less probability be referred to it. '
The spermatocysta has not been seen by Alder and Hancock.
Cf.
1. c 1852.
PI.
XIV fig.
8 p. 219.
2 Archiv.
fur Naturges 1840 p. 210 Tab.
7.
A. I. L. Mlamellata L..
Oc.
Atlant.
2L. varians Bgh. n. sp.
Oc.
Pacif.
3.
L. Jiystricina Bgh. n. sp.
Oc.
Pacif.
4.
L. muricata O. Fr Miiller.
Oc.
Pacif.
5.
L. diaphana Aid.
et Hanc.
Oc.
Atlant.
B. diaphana A. et H. Moiiogr.
Part ii fam.
1 PI.
10  Part vii PL 46 suppl.
fig.
9.
6.
L. aspera A. et H.. Oc.
Atlant.
D. aspera A. et H. 1. e. Part v fam.
1 PI.
2 fig.
15  Part vi fam.
1 PI.
9 fig.
19 Part vii PI.
46 suppl.
text  PI.
48 suppl.
fig.
2.
B.
7.
L. sparsa A. et H..
Oc.
Atlant.
D. sparsa A. et H. 1. c Part iv fara.
1 PI.
14  Part vii PI.
46 supil.
test.
8.
depressa A. et H.j.
Oc.
Atlant.
D. depressa A. et H. 1. c Part v fam.
1 PI.
12 fig.
18  Part vii PI.
46 suppl.
fig 12. f Villiersia scutigera d'Orb. Mag.
de Zool. 1837 p. 15 PI.
109 fig.
14.
9.
L. ineonspicua A. et H. .
Oc.
Atlant.
D. ineonspicua A. et H. 1. c. Part v fam.
1 PI.
12 fig.
916  Part vii PI.
46 suppl.
fig13.
10.
L. oUonga A. et H..
Oc.
Atlant.
D. ohlonga A. et H. 1. c Part v fam.
1 PI.
16 fig.
45 Part vii PI.
46 suppl.
fig.
10.
II.
L. pusilla A. et H..
Oc.
Atlant.
D. pusilla A. et H. 1. c. Part ii fam.
1 PI.
13  Part vii PI.
46 suppl.
text  app.
p. iii.
12.
L. luteocincta M.
Sars.
 Oc.
Atlant.
13.
L.

ulidiana Thomps..
Oc.
Atlant.
D. ulidiana Th. Ann.
Mag. Nat.
Hist. xv 18 p. 31.
D. ulidiana Th. Aid.
et Hanc 1. c. Part vii p. 42 app.
p. ii.
14.
L.

tenella Agassiz.
Oc.
Atlant.
D. tenella Ag. Gould Rep. ou the Inv.
of Massachusetts ed.
Binney 1870 p. 329 PI.
XX fig.
289j 290 293.
15.
L. f pallida Ag..
Oc.
Atlant.
Z.
pallida Ag. Gould 1. c p. 229 PL xx fig.
284 287 288 291. '
According to Morcb Synopsis Moll.
mar.
Daniae Vidensk.
Meddel.
fra naturh.
Foren.
i Kbhvn. 1871 p. 179 this species ought to be identical with the D. muricata of Meyer and Moebius  but this is of course impossible.
 The organs of the bulbus pliaryngeus of this species have just been figured by G. O. Sars MolL reg.
arct.
Norv. 1878 Tab.
xiv fig.
3.
16.
L.

diademata Ag..
6c.
Atlant.
D. diademata Ag. Gould 1. c p. 230 PI.
xxi fig.
298 300 301304.
17.
L.

grisea Stimps.j.
Oc.
Atlaut.
Gould 1. c p. 232 PI.
xx iig.
292 295.
18.
L. f derelicta Fischer.
Oc.
Atlant.
B. derelicta F. Jouiu.
de conch yl. xv 1867 p. 7.
19.
L.

iuberculata Hutton.
Oc.
Pacif.
Nova Zeland..
Onchidoris tuberculatus Hutton cf.
Abraham 1. c p. 226.
20.
L.

eubalia Fischer.
Oc.
Atlant.
Doris eubalia F. Journ.
de couchyl. xx 1872 p. 10.
1.
L. bilamellata L. var.
joociica.
Plate V fig.
10 Plate XT fig 39.
Color albidoflavescens maculis fuscis plus minusve variegatus.
Dentes laterales margine Itevi.
Hab.
Oc.
Pacific sepentr.
Mar.
Beringi.
Six specimens of this variety of the Atlantic species were taken by Dall in Bering Sea Hagmeister Id.
 in August 1874 at low water on a gravel beach.
Three were sacrificed for the anatomical examination.
According to Dall the color of the living animal was yellowishwhite with brown macule.
The length of the specimens preserved in spirits was 1113.0 mm.
by a height of 4.55.5 mm.
and a breadth of 610.0 mm.
 the height of the rhinophoria 1.752.2 of the branchial leaves 11.2 mm  the breadth of the foot at the foreend about .58.0 mm.
 the margin of the mantle projecting freely about 1.52.0 mm.
The color of the individuals on the back was yellowwhite marmorated with light reddishbrown this marbling always occupying the spaces between the tubercles which are nearly white or light yellowirh  the branchial leaves of the same reddish color  the club of the rhinophoria yellowishwhite  the under side of the body yellowishwhite or whitish.
The form was elongateoval.
The head flattened nearly semicircular with the tentacular edges a little prominent.
The vicinity of the posterior margin of the rhinophorholes plain at the anterior two large erect tubercles  the club of the rhinophoria with about twenty leaves the stem rather short.
The back covered all over with semiglobular and short clubshaped rounded tubercles of different sizes mostly small mixed with many larger ones 0.
'I5 mm.
in diameter  the larger tubercles mostly showing a spinous surface PI.
V fig.
10 when magnified.
o 1 Cf.
my Malacolog.
Unters.
Semper II 11 Tab.
LXVIII fig.
1516.
The openings of the rhinophorholes and of the branchial area fig.
Sbb surrounded by large and small tubercles which also were spread over the central part of it fig.
3.
The branchial leaves  fig.
3aa were about twentyfour or twentyfive in number set in a transverse reniform ring  the leaves in the front part much larger than the rest.
The anus as usual scarcely projecting.
The under side of the margin of the mantle quite smooth.
The genital openings always quite contracted.
The foot large with a fine line along its anterior margin.
The cerebrovisceral ganglia shortreniform  the pedal ones not much smaller of oval form set nearly at a right angle to the inferior face of the former  the olfactory ganglia bulbiform or ovoid.
The buccal ganglia rather flattened of roundish contour a little larger than the olfactory ones  the commissure between them very short  the gastrooisophageal ganglia not very shortstalked roundish in size about onequarter of the buccal ganglia with three large cells.
The three commissures very distinct the subcerebral and the pedal connected throughout most of their length  the visceral thin not giving off a genital nerve.
The eyes with black pigment yellowish lens  the nervus opticus nearly as long as half the breadth of the cerebral ganglion.
The otocysts as large as the eyes crowded with otokonia of the usual kind.
The leaves of the rhinophoria without spicules  the axis of these organs on the other hand were filled with such spicules partly circularly and concentrically arranged.
The tubercles of the back stuffed with ordinary spicules fig.
10 in the usual way the larger spicules mostly very prominent on the surface The oral tube as usual.
The bulbus pharyngeus of the usual form about 2.0 mm.
long  the lipdisk with a rather thick yellowish cuticula and inwards with the same belt of about ten to fifteen rows of small denticles as in the L. hystricina cf.
below  the sheath of the radula somewhat bent upwards freely projecting behind the bulbus for as great a length as that of the bulbus itself.
The tongue in the three individuals with ten or eleven series of plates in the sheath ten or eleven developed and tliree younger rows  the total number of rows being thus twenty four or twentyfive.
The plates light jellowish in their thicker parts otherwise nearly colorless.
The length of the median plates reaching about 0.12 mm. the height of the external ones 0.10 mm.
The median fig.
7a and exterior plates fig.
Ih quite as usual  the large ones of the usual forms fig.
Ih sometimes especially the foremost with rather obtuse point fig.
9.
The buccal crop fig.
4 5 as large as the bulbus of quite the usual form rather petiolate.'
The salivary glands forming on each side a large thick whitish mass between the bulbus and the central nervous system with the glanduloe sanguineje.
The oesophagus rather wide.
The stomach and the intestine as usual.
The liver as usual much flattened on the right anterior half The heart rather large.
The gland sanguineae large whitish covering the upper side of the central nervous system the foremost part in one individual very narrow.
The renal syrinx about 1.0 mm.
long with strong longitudinal folds its clothing as usual.
The anterior genital mass 44.5 mm.
long by a breadth of 1.251.5 and a height of 33.3 mm. yellowwhite planoconvex  the anterior and partly the superior portion formed by the coils of the whitish spermatoduct  in one individual one coil embraced the sheath of the radula.
The first part of the spermatoduct strong when unrolled about 25.0 mm.
long  the succeeding part of the length of 45.0 mm. thinner  the rest about 7.0 mm.
in length stronger nearly as in the first part.
In the beginning of this last part the true spermatic duct was rolled up in tight coils the remaining part of its length was nearly straight.
The penis about 1.5 mm.
long with the usual glans in the interior.
The spermatotheca fig.
6a spherical its chief duct nearly twice as long as the bag the vagina short fig.
6e.
The spermatocysta appeared pyriform fig.
Qd In color this form seems to differ from the typical one as that is represented by Alder and Hancock Monogr. Part vi 1854 fam.
3 li.
9 in the anatomical relations no specific differences could be detected.
A specimen of another variety was obtained by Dall on a gravel beach at low water in June 1874 at Port Etches Prince William Sound .
According to Dall the mantle was of brown  color.
The specimen had a length of 13.0 mm by a breadth of 8.0 mm. and a height of 5.0 mm.
 the height of the leaves of the gill was about 1.0 mm.
The color of the back was brownish and yellowish that of the gill as well as of the rhinophoria yellowish.
The number of leaves of the gill was about thirty.
The bulbus pharyngeus about 1.75 mm.
long by a height of 1.5 mm.
 the sheath of the radula nearly as long as the bulbus  the buccal crop  In one specimen the form of this organ was entirely as figured iu my Malacolog.
Untersuch.
Semper Reisen.
Tab.
LXV fig.
2. a little larger than the bulbus.
The radula brownishyellow with nine rows of teeth further back fifteen developed and two younger rows the total number being twentysix.
The teeth quite as above dark horncolored in their thicker parts  the median ones reaching a height of 0.16 mm.
The salivary glands as abovementioned.
The biliary sac uncommonly small.
The black contents of the rectum consisting of undeterminable animal matter mixed with larger and smaller pieces of small Crustacea.
The liver much flattened on the riglit anterior half.
The anterior genital mass large about 7.0 mm.
long 5.0 mm.
high and 3.0 mm.
thick.
The ampulla of the hermaphroditic duct whitish forming a long ansa about 5.0 mm.
long.
The spermatoduct shorter than in the other form otherwise with the penis as in that form.
The spermatotheca yellowish short sacshaped of a largest diameter of 3.0 mm.
 the spermatocysts about 0.3 mm.
long pyriform.
The mucous gland chalkwhite and brownishgray.
Of another variety Dall in August 1872 obtained six specimens in Sanborn Harbor Shumagin Ids.
 on stony bottom at low water.
According to Dall the color of the back of the living animal is  redbrown with whitish papilla3.
The color of the backs of the specimens preserved in spirits was rather uniformly dirty brownyellowish commonly much lighter on the middle the papilliB whitish  the gill and the rhinophoria of the color of the back  the under side of the whole body yellowish  more whitish on the mantle.
The length of the animals varied from 18.0 to 25.0 mm. by a breadth of 11.0 to 16.0 mm. and a height of 8.0 to 12 mm.
 the breadth of the foot '1.5 to 12.0 mm.
 the height of the rhinophoria reaching 3.0 mm. that of the gill 2.0 mm.
The form as usual.
The horseshoe shape of the gill very pronounced the number of leaves twentyeight to thirty.
The gill was surrounded by higher papillae which in the largest specimen reached the height of about 2.5 mm.
 the space inclosed by the gill closely set with similar papillas the largest as large as the above mentioned in the periphery.
The gill can be so deeply drawn back in its groove that these external and internal papillai shut over and quite conceal it  the papilla
of the centre smaller  a crest or some few papilhe in the median line go from the anus backwards between the incurved ends of the gill.
The anus small very slightly prominent  the renal pore on the right side.
The openings of the rhinophorholes as usual before them the two usual papilUc behind them a bare space.
The papilla
of the back quite as in the previously examined form the largest in the largest specimen reaching the height and the diameter of about 1.5 mm. those in the neighborhood of the gill somewhat larger.
Two smaller individuals were dissected the larger being harder than these and not so suitable for that purpose.
The peritoneum was colorless.
The central nervous system just as in the former specimens but the buccal ganglia smaller than the olfactoiy and the gastrooesophageal shortstalked.
The eyes as above.
The otocysts under the glass very distinct as chalkwhite points on the hinder and outermost part of the cerebral ganglia.
The leaves of the rhinophoria without spicula.
The skin and the papillae of the back as above or still more crowded with very hard spicula.
The oral tube large in both individuals about 2.5 mm.
long.
The bulbus pliaryngeus of the usual form in both individuals about 3.0 long by a breadth of 1.8 mm  and the height nearly the same the sheath of the radula projecting straight backwards 2.0 mm.
The buccal crop lying to the left side of the bulbus somewhat compressed of about 3.0 mm.
largest diameter the stalk nearly half as long as the largest diameter of the crop.
The tongue with ten rows of teeth further backwards also eleven or twelve developed and three younger rows the total number thus being twentyfour or twentyfive.
They were entirely as in the form first examined.
The salivary glands the pyloric part of the intestine with its biliary sac and the liver as usual.
The sanguineous gland whitish much flattened covering the whole upper side of the bulbus pharyngeus and the central nervous system  a flattened cavity in its interior.
The hermaphroditic gland through its more reddish color contrasting with the grayish color of the liver.
The anterior genital mass 11.0 to 12.0 mm.
long by a height reaching V.O to 8.0 mm. and a breadth of 4.0 to 4.5 mm.
The ampulla of the hermaphroditic duct lying transversely on the lowest and most anterior part of the back of the mucous gland rather straight or forming nearly a circle about 5.0 to T.O mm.
long whitish.
The spermatoduct making many coils on and before the anterior part of the mucous gland the first part about 35.0 to 45.0 mm.
long the second nearly 25.0 mm.
long  the penis about 1.5 to 2.0 mm. projecting freely from the vestibulum conical  the glans seemed rather short.
The spermatotheca of about 3.0 mm.
diameter whitish.
The spermatocysta fig.
66 quite imbedded in and concealed by the mucous gland only a part of its chief duct free on the surface of this last  the spermatocysta scarcely shorter than the spermatotheca pearsluiped incurved  the duct to the mucous gland fig.
Qd passing from the end of the bag the other strong longer tig.
c opening in the duct of the spermatotheca where it begins to be wider vagina  the vagina fig.
Ge rather wide but short.
The mucous gland whitish yellowish and dirty yellow.
 2.
L. varians Bgh.
PI.
XI fig.
1.3 14 PI.
XIII fig.
1.
L. varians B. R. Bergh Malacol.
Unters.
1. c 1878 p. 613 014.
Color curulescens vel albescens vel flavescens.
Dentes laterales margine interno denticulati fere usque ad apicem Hab.
Oc.
Pacif.
Ins.
Kyska.
Of this species six specimens were taken by Dall in July 1873 at Kyska Island on sandy ground at a depth of 914 fathoms.
Four specimens were sacrificed to the anatomical examination.
According to Dall the color of the living animal is  bluish.
The animals preserved in spirits were of a uniform whitish color so too the rhinophoria and the branchia.
Their length was 912.0 mm.
by a breadth of 5.37.0 and a height of 34.5 mm.
 the breadth of the foremost part of the foot 3.65.0 mm.
The height of the rhinophoria reached about 2.2 mm. of the branchial leaves 1.0 mm.
T he form almost entirely as in the typical form and as in the L. hystricina.
'i he head as in the last species  also the openings of the rhinophorholes with their mostly three larger tubercles set with equal spaces  the club of the rhinophoria Vfith about twelve to fifteen rather thick leaves.
The tubercles of the back as in the L. hystricina  the number of larger ones much exceeding that of the smaller which are scattered between them.
The branchial disk as in the L. hystricina also the branchial leaves whose number did not surpass twelve to twenty.
The foot as usual.
The central nervous system fig.
1 nearly as in the L. hystricina.
The cerebrovisceral ganglia of roundish or oval form as also the pedal ones which were not much smaller than the former.
The com1 In my Malacolog.
Unters.
Semper Philipp.
II ii Ileft xiv 1878 p. 60GG13  Tab.
Ixiv tig.
13 141'  Tab.
Ixv fig.
1.5 G13 I have given some anatomical remarks on the typical L. bilaviellata and ou the Greenlandic variety D. liturata.
Beck.
missura pedalia nearly as long as the diameter of the pedal ganglia  the subcerebral lying rather close up to the pedal  the visceral quite free much thinner.
A very shortstalked smaller ganglion fig.
Ic connected with the under side of the right visceral ganglion gives off a nerve that swells into a new ganglion which sends out three nerves N. genitalis.
The olfactory ganglia shortstalked spindleshaped.
The buccal fig.
Id and the gastrooesophageal ganglia fig.
le nearly as in the L. hystricina  the commissure between the first extremely short the gastrooesophageal somewhat smaller.
The nervi optici one to one and ahalf times as long as the diameter of the cerebral ganglia  the eyes with black pigment yellowish lens.
The otocysts fig.
1 lying rather backwards a little smaller than the eyes  the otokonia of the usual form in number about fifty.
The leaves of the rhinophoria without spicula.
In the skin were almost no spicula and no larger or calcified ones on the surface of the rigid papillag of the back which thus were rather smooth.
In the interstitial connective tissue small calcified cells but no larger spicula.
The mouthtube as in the L. hystricina.
The bulbus pharyngeus as in that species but the sheath of the radula shorter and less prominent bent upwards sideways or down and forwards.
On the intei'ior part of the nearly colorless labial disk the usual belt of about twelve to fifteen rows of small denticles.
The tongue strong rather long with curved superior and nearly straight inferior margin.
In the mature radula twelve to fourteen or sixteen rows of teeth further backwards fifteen or sixteen to eighteen rows of developed and three of partly developed teeth  the total number of rows thus thirty thirtyone or thirtyfive to thirtyseven.
The median plates fig.
14 of nearly the usual form in the under side rather excavated with thickened margins.
The large lateral plates fig.
13 formed nearly as in the L. hystricina but larger reaching a height of 0.12 mm.
 the denticulation of the interior margin of the hook stronger with more about twenty denticles and reaching farther out towards the end of the hook.
The exterior plates nearly of the same form as in the last species reaching to the height of about 6 mm.
The suckingcrop quite as in the former species.
The salivary glands much smaller than in the former species reduced to a large scarcely lobed whitish mass on each side of the root of the ojsophagus.
The oesophagus somewhat spindleshaped.
The stomach included in the liver.
The intestine issuing from the liver behind its middleThe liver of grayishwhite color of the length of about 9.5 mm.
by a breadth of 4 and a height of about 3.75 mm.
 the hinder end rounded the foreend rather truncated the anterior onethird on the upper and right side flattened by the anterior genital mass.
The heart and the renal syrinx as usual  the median renal chamber continued to the foreend of the liver.
The sanguineous glands connected on the upper side of the central nervous system to a flattened whitish mass.
The glandula hermaphrodisiaca clothing the upper side of the liver and scarcely distinct from it in color  in its lobules were large oijgene cells.
The anterior genital mass compressed planoconvex 4.0 mm.
long by a height of about 3.3 and a breadth of 1.2 mm.
The albuminous gland on the left side of the mass and forwards yellowish very finely gyrated on the surface  the mucous gland whitish pellucid.
The spermatoduct as well as the 3.0 mm.
long penis as in the L. echinata.
The spermatotheca rather small spherical.
L. varians var.
To this same species belonged certainly five specimens of a Lamellidoris which were taken by Dall in July 18'73 at Unalashka Island Aleutians at the depth of sixty fathoms on mud and stones.
Nevertheless the color of these animals in the living state was according to Dall  yellowishwhite.
The size and the particular measures accorded with those of the more typical individuals referred to above.
The central nervous system as just mentioned so even the eyes and the otocysts.
The bulbus pharyngeus of the usual form  on the tongue eleven rows of teeth farther backwards twentysix developed and four not quite developed rows the total number thus fortyone.
The plates quite as formerly described.
The suckingcrop quite as in the typical form also the salivary glands.
The whitish sanguineous gland entirely covering the central nervous system.
The penis as usual.
Two specimens of another variety of this form were gotten by Dall In July 1873 at Kyska Island on sandy bottom and at a depth of nine to fourteen fathoms.
In a living state they were according to Dall of yellowish color.
The length of the animals preserved in spirits was 8.5 to 9.0 mm. by a breadth of 6.0 ram. and a height of about 3.5 mm.
The color was uniformly whitish or yellowishwhite.
One individual was dissected.
The central nervous system was as above mentioned and also the eyes their nervi optici rather long and the otocysts the number of the otokonia about one hundred.
The bulbus pharyngeus as usual  on the tongue sixteen rows of teeth farther backwards eighteen rows of developed and four of younger teeth  the total number of rows thirtyeight.
The plates as above  the length of the median plates 005 to 058 mm.
 the height of the anterior large lateral plates about 0.14 mm. of the posterior about 0.17 mm.
 the number of denticles on these plates mostly fifteen to twenty.
The vesica fellea wa
at the left side of the pylorus.
S. L. hystricina Bergh.
L. hystricina Bcrgh Mai.
Untersuch. 1. c 1878 p. 614 Tab.
Ixviii.
fig.
1723.
Color cocrulescens.
Denies laterales margine interno denticulati sed non usque ad apicem.
Habitat.
Oceanum Pacificum insula Kyska.
One specimen of this species was found by Dall at Kyska Island Aleutians on rocky bottom at a depth of ten fathoms in June.
1873.
According to Dall the color of the living animal is bluish.
The specimen preserved in spirits was 9.5 mm.
in length reached a breadth of G mm. and a height of the true body without the papilUe of .3.5 mm.
 the breadth of the foremost part of the foot was 5.3 mm. the height of the rhinophoria was about 2.1 mm. of the branchia about 1.2 mm. of the dorsal papilla 1.2 mm.
The color was uniformly whitish.
The form was oval the back not very convex.
The head rather large formed like a velum that is radiately folded and has its side parts connected with the ends of the anterior margin of the foot  in the middle of the hinder part of the under side of the velum is a transverse slit in which the small mouthpore opens.
The opening of the rhinophorholes was nearly round with the margin rather thin here were three papilla
of the same kind as on the back  the rhinophoria stout the club with about twenty leaves.
The back covered all over with mostly stout clubshaped papilhv apparently set without order and extending nearly out to the very margin of the mantle which is thin and has on the upper side smaller cylindrical or clubshaped papilhe.
The papilht all firmly adherent to the skin the spicules shining through all over on the back and in the papillae.
The branchial disk rather large at the margin set with about fourteen papillae irregularly alternating in size.
The branchia composed of twelve small leaves of the usual kind.
The centre of the disk and the anus as usual.
The foot somewhat shorter and narrower than the back broader in front with the anterior margin rather straight rounded posteriorly.
The cerebrovisceral ganglia showed the visceral part a little larger than the cerebral the pedal somewhat smaller than the visceral the four commissures as usual the offshoot of the nerva genitalis could not be determined.
The buccal ganglia rounded connected through a short commissure  the gastrooesophageal having about onequarter of the size of the latter.
The eyes with very rich black pigment  the nervus opticus not short.
The otocysts as large as the eyes filled with otokonia of the usual kind.
In the thin leaves of the rhinophoria no spicula.
In the skin of the back and in the dorsal papillas an enormous amount of irregular or rounded particles often coalescing together in larger irregular lumps which very often were crowded together in irregular heaps  in the papillse also were long strong and very much calcified spicula often of uneven surface whose points as usual often projected on the surface of the papillie.
In the interstitial connective tissue including the ends of the different ducts of the genital organs vagina mucous gland duct masses of large and long as much as 0.9 mm calcified spicula.
The mouthtube was about 1.0 mm.
long rather wide with strong longitudinal folds.
The bulbus pharyngeus of usual irregular form the bulbus proper of the length of about 1.75 mm.
 the sheath of the radula nearly as long as the bulbus curved downwards.
The labial disk oval at the inner margin of darker color and there showing fig.
17 a narrow belt of small yellowish denticles of a height of 0.007 to 0.015 mm.
' this belt seems continued a short space up in the mouth that is otherwise like the rest of the buccal cavity clothed with a rather thick yellowish cuticula.
Ihe tongue rather long and narrow in the groove on its back sixteen rows of teeth in the sheath eighteen developed and six undeveloped rows the total number consequently forty.
The color of the true lateral teeth yellowish the others nearly colorless  the height of the outer pseudoplates about 0.075 mm.
1 he median pseudoplates elongate narrow fig.
21  the true lateral ' In the outer mouth was found a little Caprella of the length of 3.0 mm.
teeth strong finely denticulated with six to eight denticles on the inner side of the hook and with a strong rounded prominence at the base of this fig.
18a 19 20  the external pseudoplates with the usual curved points fig.
186.
Irregularities in the form of the last were often observed fig.
23. The crop entirely as in the typical species the largest diameter 1.3 mm.
 In the stomach indeterminable animal matter and a little undeterminable worm of the length of 2.0 mm.
The hermaphroditic gland as usual  the lobules filled with sperma.
The anterior genital mass rather large measuring in length 4.5 mm. in height 2.5 mm. and in breadth 2.3 mm.
 the left side flat or a little excavated the right rather convex.
The mucous gland as well as the albuminous gland white and yellowishwhite.
The spermatoduct not very long but rather strong continued in the very strong penis that retracted  forms the foreend of the whole mass.
The penis has a length of about 3.5 mm. by a diameter of 1.3 mm.
 the inferior end rather constricted  the superior threequarters of the organ compact perforated through the axis by the dense coils of the spermatoduct proper  the inferior onethird hollow including the curved and pointed glans.
2.
L. muricata MilUer.
Plate IX.
fig.
18 Plate XI fig.
lOIi.
Doris muricata O. F. Muller.
Zool.
Dan.
Fas.
Ill 1789 p. 7 Tab.
LXXXV f. 2 3 4.
Doris muricata Muller.
Sars forma 5 Loveu Ind.
Moll.
Scand.1846 p. 5.
Dorii muricata Meyer und Moebius.
Fauna der Kieler Buclit I 1865 p. 7375 Taf.
Vc fig.
18. f Lamellidoris muricata Muller.
G. 0.
Sars Moll.
reg.
arct.
Norv. 1878 p. 307 Tab.
Xlll fig.
6.
Color flavidus vel luteoalbus.
Dentes laterales magni hamo denticu'ato sed non usque ad apicem.
Hah.
Oc.
Atlanticum septentr.
The original specimen on which Miiller founded his Doris muricata does not exist and by his incomplete description it is now completely impossible with full certainty to determine what species was meant by his description.
In future the species described by Meyer and Moebius ' From the presence of only one Individual the examination of the radula was extremely difficult and limited as also that of the genital organs.
and by me ought to be called by that name.
To the same is without doubt to be referred the second variety 9 of the D. muricata Miiller Sars of Lovn the first being the D. Lov'ni of Alder.
Of this form and under that name I have had two well conserved specimens for examination kindly sent me by Mr. Friele of Bergen and caught in the neighborhood of that place.
The individuals preserved in spirits were of light yellowish color.'
The length 910 mm.
by a breadth of 56.0 and a height of nearly 8.0 mm.
 the breadth of the foot reaching 3.5 ram.
 the height of the rhinophoria 1.5 of the branchial leaves 1.0 mm.
The form of the animal as usual  the warts of the back not large mostly truncate clavate.
The openings for the rhinophoria as usual with two tubercles before them or one on each side the club with about fifteen to twenty leaves.The branchial leaves about twelve to fourteen as far as could be determined 3 the space inclosed by the gill covered with the usual tubercles  the anus presenting the ordinary features.
The head rather large the side parts adhering to the foot throughout their whole length.
The genital groove with three openings j a foremost round a median spaltformed and a posterior large and round.
Both individuals were dissected  the peritoneum was colorless.
In the central nervous system the cerebrovisceral ganglia appeared rather short reniform  the pedal ones of roundish form somewhat larger than either of the former  the commissures rather short.
The olfactory ganglion shortstalked nearly spherical situated rather posteriorly on the upper side of the cerebral ganglia and nearly as large as the buccal ones.
The buccal ganglia of oval outline connected by a short commissure  the gastrooesophageal nearly spherical in size about onequarter of the former shortstalked a secondary ganglion lying above the last on the oesophagus.
The eyes not shortstalked  with rich black pigment and yellow lens.
The otocysts a little smaller than the eyes filled with otokonia of the common kind.
In the leaves of the rhinophoria rather few but large spicula of the same kind as in the skin more or less perpendicular on the free margin  the axes of the club like the stalk still more richly endowed with smaller and larger spicules.
Under the glass the ' According to Loven the color is yellowish to Meyer and Moebius white or yellowishwhite the rhinophoria orangecolored.
According to Meyer and Moebius the club of the rhinophoria has but nine or ten leaves. '
Meyer and Moebius mention eight leaves as nearly constant.
6 skin between the warts as well as the warts themselves showed the white spicules everywhere shining through  the spicules often projecting from the surface of the warts The spicules for the greater part very large long and reaching a diameter of at least 0.05 mm.
 they were strongly calcified mostly straight or slightly curved the surface nearly even.
In the interstitial tissue were rather many spicules but as in the rhinophoria less calcified than in the skin.
The mouthtube rather wide.
The bulbus pharyngeus of nearly usual form about 1.6 mm.
long  the sheath of the radula moreover projecting backwards about 0.4 mm. bent somewhat upwards or downwards  the lipdisk with a rather thick yellowish cuticula  the suckingcrop large larger than the true bulbus to which it adheres by a very short petiolus.
The tongue with nine rows of teeth further back twenty to thirtytwo developed and three younger rows  the total number of rows thirtytwo to fortyfour. The yellow median plates fig.
10a about 0.05 mm.
long of the usual form.
The large lateral plates yellow of about 0.12 mm.
height  the form as usual  the hook with about fifteen to sixteen fine denticles and a strong tooth at the inside of the base fig.
lObb.
The external plate colorless about 0.04 mm.
in height with the usual rudiment of a hook fig.
10c llb. The salivary glands white rather thick making two or three short coils at the sides of the oesophagus.
The oesophagus as usual.
The intestine emerging from the liver at about the middle of its length  the biliary sac fig.
18 is at the pyloric part of it situated deeply scarcely showing itself on the surface of the liver and opening fig.
18a into the stomach close to the pylorus.
The liver about 6.5 mm.
long by a breadth of 3.0 mm.
and a height of 2.0 mm. deeply excavated in the anterior third of its right side and of light yellow color.
The sanguineous gland much flattened whitish heartformed of about 1.5 mm.
largest diameter.
The renal chamber rather wide the tube on its floor strong. '
Meyer and Moebius 1. c. p. 73 mention twentynine rows  Alder and Hancock thirty.
The representations of the external plate by Meyer and Moebius 1. e. fig.
2 6 are not natural.
Alder and Hanc.
1. c Part VII p. ii PI.
46 supplem.
text mention two external plates in their D. muricata as in their D. diaphana  either the D. muricata of A. and H. must be another species or they must have fallen into error from the particular view which is sometimes had in certain positions of the hind ends of the large lateral teeth with the external ones. 
.
The lobes of the hermaphroditic gland without developed sexual elements.
The anterior genital mass about 2.53.0 mm.
in length by a height of 2.0 mm.
and a breadth of 1.01.5 mm.
The ampulla of the hermaphroditic duct of yellowish color rather thick   0.75 mm.
diameter making a wide curve about 2.5 mm.
long.
The spermatoduct long  its first part thinner about 9.0 mm.
long then through a stricture of the length of nearly 1 mm. passing into the thicker part which in its last half increases in thickness and all in all has the length of about 6.0 mm.
by a diameter of 0.75 mm.
 the last part fig.
12c passes into the penis' in whose cavity fig.
12bb the glans fig.
12 projects as a short club the proper seminal duct passing down to the gland in nearly continual corkscrew windings and often shining through the walls of the external coat.
The spermatotheca whitish nearly spherical of about 1.3 mm.
diameter filled with seminal matter and detritus  the spermatocysta elongate nearly twice as long as the former yellowish deeply imbedded in the mucous gland filled with ripe semen  its duct somewhat longer than the cysta.
The vagina short. The mucous gland yellowish and yellow.
The species approaches to the L. hystricina and L. varians of the Pacific but differs entirely in its colors still the possibility cannot be denied that further investigations may show both the Pacific  species  to be merely varieties of the old Lamellidoris muricata of the Atlantic.
ADALARIA Bergb.
Adalaria R Bergh.
Malacolog.
Unters.
Semper Philipp.
II ii.
Heft XIV 1878 p. xl.
Adalaria R. Bergh.
Gattungen nord.
Doriden 1. c. 1879 p. 360.
Forma corporis fere ut in Lamellidoridibus.
Nothaum papillulatum vel subgranulosum.
Branchia non retractilis e foliis vix multis in formam ferri equini ut plurimum dispositis formata.
Caput ut n Lamellidoridibus latum semilunare teutaculis vix uUis vel brevissimis lobiformibus.
Aperturse rhinophoriales integral tuberculis anticis 23 calvitie postica.
Discus labialis non armatus.
Lingua rhachide lamellis depressis instructa  pleuris dente laterali interno hamiformi majore et serie ' The exserted penis is figured by Meyer and Moebius 1. c. taf.
fig.
4 and mentioned as cylindricoconical.
The upper end of the vagina seemed to present a particular diverticle.
dentium externorum sat applanatorum pneditis.
Ingluvies buccalis bulbo pharyngeo petiolo connata.
Penis glande parva inermi.
Vagina brevis.
 The genus has been established by the author 1878 to receive the D. proxima and its allies.
The Adalarice externally approach nearest to the Lamellidorides  their branchial leaves are also disposed mostly in horseshoe form but fewer in number.
The head and the' tentacles are more as in the Aeanthodorides.
The back is nearly as in the Lamellidorides but the granules are sometimes more pointed.
The opening for the rhinophoria as in the Lamellidorides with plain margin  before them two to three tubercles behind them the glabella.
The lipdisk only covered by a strong cuticula.
The armature of the tongue approaching to that of the Acanthodorides.
The rhachis of the tongue carries depressed small yellow plates  at each side of these a large hookformed yellow plate and further outwards a series of smaller nearly colorless plates of which the inner ones are more compressed the rest depressed.
The suckingcrop as in the Lamellidorides through a petiolus fixed to the bulbus.
The salivary glands as in the Lamellidorides.
The oesophagus wider at its root.
The penis unarmed  the vagina short.
The Adalarice are Lamellidorides with a tongue resembling that of the Acanthodorides  they form a sort of connecting link between these two groups.
Of the typical species the spawn is known through Alder and Hancock and some few notices have been published about their biology through Meyer and Moebius  Sars mentions' the swimming of Ad.
Loveni.
The genus seems to belong to the northern oceans  only five species .seem hitherto known.
1.
Ad.
proxima A. et H..
Oc.
Atlanticus sept. 'Z.
Ad.
pacifica Bgh. n. sp.
Oc.
Pacif.
J.
Ad.
virescens Bgh. n. sp.
Oc.
Pacif.
4.
Ad.
albopapi'losa Dall.
Oc.
Pacif.
5.
Ad.
Loveni A. et H..
Oc.
Atlant.
sept. 1.
Adalaria proxima Alder et Hancock.
PI.
IX fig.
1215.
Doris proxima A. et H. Monogr.
Part VI 1854.
Fam 1 PI .
9 fig..
101 G  Part VII 1855.
PI.
46 suppl.
f. 8.
Doris proxima Meyer u. Moebius Fauna der Kieler Bucht I 1865.
P. 6971  taf.
V b fig.
18. '
Sars Bidr.
til Soedyrenes.
Naturhist.
1829 p 17.
Color flavus vel e rubro flavus.
Dentes laterales magni hamo edentulo  externi numero 10.
Hab.
Oc.
Atlant.
septentr.
Of this form I have had for examination three specimens of nearly equal size kindly sent me by Prof. Moebius in Kiel and caught in the neighborhood of that town.
The individuals wpre of a uniform whitish color the liver shining reddishgray through the foot.
Alder and Hancock have already remarked this shining through of the liver.
The length was 708.0 mm. by a breadth of 5.05.5 and a height of about 3.5 mm the height of the rhinophoria about 1.25 of the branchial leaves 0.75 mm.
The form nearly as in the Ad.
pacijica also the tubercles fig.
12 of the back and the surroundings of the rhinophorholes  the branchial leaves nine to ten in number.
The number of branchial leaves according to Alder and Hancock is eleven according to Meyer and Moebius eight or nine.
The rhinophoria with about fifteen to twenty leaves.
The lateral parts of the head nearly connate with the foot.
and only slight traces of true pointed tentacles.
The foot as in the next species.
The three individuals were anatomically examined.
The peritoneum colorless.
The central nervous system as in the Ad.
pacifica but less depressed.
The eyes and otocysts as in that species  the last with about 200 otokonia of very varying diameter reaching about 0.02 mm.
The spicula of the skin as described by English and German authors  a rather large quantity spread in the skin of the head.
The bulbus pharyngeus with the crop of the length of about 1.5 mm. by a height of 1.5 and a breadth of 0.8 mm.
 the crop making about half of the bulbus the lipdisk with strong yellowish cuticula  the sheath of the radula a little prominent bent more or less upwards.
The tongue narrow and pointed with seven to nine rows of teeth further backwards thirty or thirtyone rows of developed and three of younger teeth  the total number thus amounts to forty or fortythree.'
The teeth as in the Ad.
pacifica.
The large lateral yellowish the rest nearly colorless.
The length of the median teeth about 0.025 to 0.03 mm.
'1 he large lateral fig 1366 14 showed the prominence ' Alder and Hancock notice fortyone Meyer and Moebius tbirtynine rows of plates.
ut the inside of the root of the hook quite as in the Ad.
pacifica.
The external teeth fig.
15 only nine or ten in number fewer than in that species always absent on more than half the tongue.
The salivary glands as in the next species also the oesophagus the stomach and the intestine.
The liver also of nearly the same form the inferior part of the posterior end continued as a little cone  the surface especially of the back part yellowishwhite  the substance yellow.
The vesica fellea in its usual place small.
The heart as usual also the sanguineous gland.
The renal syrinx and the urinary chamber as usual.
The anterior genital mass rather compressed of angularroundish outline of about 1.15 mm.
largest diameter.
The spermatoduct seemed shorter than in the next species especially the second part  the penis short.
The spermatotheca pyriform  the spermatocysta of more oval form having only about onequarter of the size of the former and fiUed with sperma.
The mucous gland whitish and yellowish.
2.
Adalaria paciflca Bergh n.
sp. PI.
IX fig.
17 j PI.
X fig.
13 PI.
XI fig.
1.
Color lutescens.
Denies laterales magni hamo edentulo  externi numero 15.
Habitat.
Oceanum Pacificum Unalashka.
Of this species Dall caught three specimens in September 1874 at Unalashka on a bottom of mud and shells.
According to Dall the color of the living animal is  yellowish  ' the specimens preserved in spirits were of a uniform yellowish color.
The length of the two larger specimens about 12.0 to 14.0 mm. by a breadth of 8.0 to 9.0 mm  and a height reaching 4.5 to 5.0 mm.
 the breadth of the foot 6.0 mm. the height of the rhinophoria about 1.5 mm. of the branchial leaves 1.2 mm.
The form as in the Ad.
proxivia a little broader anteriorly.
The back covered all over with a mass of rather stout subglobose and subpetiolate tubercles quite as in the typical species mixed with much fewer smaller ones.
The larger ones under magnification showing the perpendicular spicula shining through while other spicula were detected irregularly scattered in the intervals between the tubercles.
The rhinophorholes nearly without projecting margin  the adjoining part of the back behind smooth  immediately before the holes on  The number of external plates is according to Alder and Hancock ten to Meyer and Moebius eight or nine.
the contrary two or three larger tubercles  the club of the rhinophoria with about thirty leaves.
The branchial area surrounded by larger tubercles.
The branchial leaves in number eleven or twelve  immediately before the two hindermost was the slightly prominent anus and at its right Bide the renal pore  in the space between the anus and the branchial leaves three or four larger and two or three smaller tubercles.
The head large  the tentacles short pointed.
The foot broad rounded behind a little broader in front  the furrow on the anterior margin very indistinct.
The three individuals were all dissected.
The peritoneum was colorless.
The central nervous system rather flattened  the cerebral ganglia larger than the visceral which were lying at their outer margin and were a little larger than the pedal ones  the proximal olfactory ganglia bulbiform less large than the buccal ones which were of short oval form connected through a very short commissure  the gastrooesophageal ganglia shortstalked rounded nearly half as large as the former with a very large cell.
The subcerebral and the pedal commissures conneted the visceral free.
The eyes with coalblack pigment yellow lens  the nervus opticus in one individual with black pigment.
The otocysts under a magnifier very distinct as chalkwhite points at the hinder margin of the cerebral ganglia nearly as large as the eyes filled with ordinary otokonia.
In the leaves of the rhinophoria scanty scattered spicules perpendicular on the free margin not much more calcified than in the skin  in the stalk of the organ the spicules larger and less scanty.
The skin especially its tubercles with many long spicules and calcified cells and groups of such cells  the form of the spicules different from that of the Doris proxima as figured by Alder and Hancock Monogr. Part vi fam.
1 PL 9 fig.
15 and by Meyer and Moebius 1. c figs.
8 9 much less calcified more straight and of more uniform shape.
In the interstitial connective tissue of the chief ducts of the anterior genital mass were scattered large spicules.
The mouthtube wide about 1.3 mm.
long.
The bulbus pharyngeus of rather compressed form about 2.0 mm.
long the sheath of the radula strongly projecting from the hinder end nearly as long as the bulbus more or less curved upwards  the lipdisk oval with a very strong yellowish cuticula.
The tongue with ten or eleven rows of plates further back twentynine to thirtyfour rows of developed and three of younger plates  the total number thus fortytwo fortythree forty seven.
The median plate PI.
IX fig.
ITa  PIX fig.
1 yellowi'gh of a length of about 0.045 mm. with a median furrow along the upper side and with thickened margins.
The large laterals hornyellow in color reaching the height of about 0.1 mm.
PI.
IX fig.
lib PL X fig.
2aa hookshaped with a strong roimded prominence at the inside of the root of the hook fig.
17.
On each side PI.
X fig.
2b c of the two large plates in two individuals constantly fifteen smaller nearly colorless plates of a length of about 0.06 mm.
These plates were all somewhat depressed  the five inner ones smaller somewhat compressed  fig.
2 3a 15   the others fig.
2 3 broader with the upper edge broad and irregularly toothed  the outermost fig.
2c a little smaller than the adjoining plates.
The bases in each of thee fifteen plates large forming nearly half or at least making more than a third of the size of the whole plate.'
The crop of the bulbus of the usual form as large or a little larger than the bulbus itself with a very short stalk with strong longitudinal musculature its aperture opening immediately behind the lipdisk.
The salivary glands large white very elongate in their foremost part broader and with several coils filling the space left between the crop the bulbus and the cesophagus.
The oesophagus long.
The stomach small enclosed in the liver  the intestine rather short forming its knee behind the foreend of the liver.
The large posterior visceral mass about 9.0 mm.
long by a breadth of 4.3 and a height of 3.5 mm.
 the posterior end somewhat pointed though rounded  the foreend broader perpendicular somewhat flattened on the right side  the color of the surface hermaphroditic gland ashgray the interior the liver brown or black brown or quite yellow.
The heart as usual.
The sanguineous gland irregularly reniform situated somewhat more towards the left side rather thick whitish covering the central nervous system and a large part of the bulbus pharyngeus from above.
The renal syrinx as usual.
The hermaphroditic gland without developed sexual elements.
The anterior genital mass proper rather small compressed of about 2.5 mm.
largest diameter but the loop of the spermatoduct and the penis nearly as large as the rest of the mass.
The spermatoduct long in its first part white rather strong  nearly as long as the second in which it passes through a stricture  this last part is thicker cylindrical elongated about 5.0 nm. long passing without exact limits into the ' In both individuals the three to five foremost rows were without the smaller plates and the following two or three very incomplete in this respect.
short penis.
The spermatotheca pyriform about 1.3 mm.
long the ppermatocysta not having onefourth of the size of the last  botli empty.
The mucous gland whitish and yellowwhitish.
This seems even externally to differ somewhat from the typical form of which it nevertheless may prove to be but a variety.
Neither Alder and Hancock nor Meyer and Moebius saw more than eight to nine ten external plates on the tongue of Ad.
proxima while this Pacific form always presented fifteen.
3.
Adalaria viresoeas Bgh. n. sp.
Plate X ti.
 5.
Color virescens.
Dentes laterales magni hamo edentulo  externi numero 15.
Hab.
Oc.
Pacific septentr.
Unalashka.
Of this species Dall found four specimens at Unalashku on gravel in a depth of nine to fifteen fathoms in September 1874.
According to Dall the color of the living animal was  greenish and the animals preserved in spirits showed remains of the same color as a uniform grayish green.
The length of these was 11.512.0 mm. by a breadth of 8.0 mm.
and a height of 5.0 mm  the height of the rhinophoria about 2.0 of the branchial leaves about 1.0 mm.
The form as well as the rhinophoropenings were quite as usual  the club of the rhinophoria with about thirtyfive leaves.
The gill not large with nine to twelve leaves  the space within the gill as usual also the arms and the renal pore.
The back covered with granulations and short clubs.
The head with the tentaculaj and the genital opening as usual.
Three individuals were dissected  the peritoneum was colorless.
The central nervous system showed the cerebral ganglia larger than the visceral which were lying on the outside of and behind the former very distinct from them  the pedal ones being intermediate in size between the cerebral and the visceral ganglia.
On the exterior part of each cerebral ganglion a little shortstalked ganglion gang opticum
was easily visible under a hand magnifier.
The proximal olfactory ganglia bulbiform shortstalked a little larger than the buccal ganglia which were shortoval connected through a very short commissure  the gastroojsophageal being about onefourth to onefifth of the size of the former.
In the neighborhood of the penis a little oval ganglion g. penis having a largest diameter of about 0.25 mm.
fig.
5 containing only rather small cells.
The eyes with black pigment  the otocysts with not very many and not much calcified otokonia.
No distal olfactory ganglion as far as could be seen  no spicula in the leaves of the rhinophoria.
The skin as in other species  the spicula projecting on the surface of the granulations of the back.
The bulbus pharyngeus about 11.5 mm.
in length  the sheath ot the radula projecting 0.751.0 mm. bent upwards the suckingcrop a little larger than the bulbus itself shortstalked  the lipdisk as usual.
The tongue compressed rather prominent with six eight and nine rows of teeth also further back twentyfour thirtytwo and thirtythree developed and three younger rows  the total number of rows thus being thirtyfive fortyone fortyfive.
The median plates the large lateral and the fifteen external ones scarcely different from those of the last species.
The salivary glands rather strong with two or three short coils filling the space at the sides of the oesophagus fig.
4 white.
The esophagus fig.
4a wide in its upper part the rest narrow.
The anteriorly proceeding part of the intestine 2.0 mm.
long the other retroceding part .0 mm.
long  no biliary sac could be found either at the pylorus or higher up.
The liver about 9 mm.
long by a breadth of 4.2 and a height of 4.0 mm.
 of brownishgray color  the anterior end truncate inclined downwards and backwards  the anterior onethird of the right side flattened for the anterior genital mass  the posterior end somewhat pointed rounded at the point.
The sanguineous gland whitish covering the anterior end of the bulbus pharyngeus and the foremost part of the central nervous system or this last and the hinder part of the bulbus.
The anterior genital mass about 3.5 mm.
long by a breadth of 0.75 and a height of 1.5 mm. a very large part of it formed by the thick part of the spermatoduct.
The ampulla of the hermaphroditic duct about 2.0 mm.
long rathf r thin whitish.
The spermatoduct long  the first part thinner about 8.0 mm.
long  the rest making a large curve about 5.5 mm.
long about three times as thick as the first with a diameter of 0.6 mm.
 the spermatoduct proper making many coils in its interior course downwards to the penis which shows a little unarmed glans in the bottom of its orifice  in one individual the penis was exserted as a conical prominence of the height of 1.0 mm.
The spermatotheca pyriform about 10 mm.
long of grayish color the spermatocysta a little less large spherical  the vagina rather short.
The mucous gland rather small.
Even this species might perhaps be merely a variety of the former  still it is of a quite different color and the back much more coarsely jranulated 4 Adalaria albopapillosa Dall.
PL IX.
H.
Ifi PI.
X fig.
911.
Alderia 

albopapillosa Dall Amer.
Journ.
of Conch. vii 2 1873 p. 137.
Color pallide flavescens papillis dorsalibus niveis.
Dentes laterales magni hamo basi denticulato.
Habitat.
Oceanum Pacificum septentrion.
Sitka.
Of this curious animal Dall caught three specimens in company with the Doris Archidoris Montereyensis and the jEolidia Hermissenda opalesceiis' in July 1865 on algte at the depth of six fathoms at Sitka Alaska.
According to the drawings of Dall the color of the living animal is very pale yellow the back all over covered with chalkwhite papillae  the length was 3 the breadth 2 lines.
The three original specimens preserved in spirits were of a length of 5.5 to 7.0 mm. of a gieatest breadth of 4.0 to 4.5 mm. and a height of 2.75 mm.
1 he color was uniformly translucent grayish and yellowish whitish.
The form of the animal was oval the mantle a little larger than and hiding the rest of the body.
'I he back convex covered all over with a multitude of cylindrical or fusiform relatively rather large papilla reaching to the height of a full millimetre and with some few small ones spread between them.
The rhinophoropenings at their usual place having as usual with retracted organs  thin margins  before them always two larger papillae behind them a little naked space. The club of the yellowish rhinophoria with about twentyfive leaves.
The gill rather small the branchial leaves yellowish as usual set in horseshoe form lower or at least not higher than the dorsal papillte in number ten to twelve  the anal papilla rather low with one of the ordinary papilla
before and one behind it  the space between the ' Of an opaque white the remainder of the animal except the eyes being translucent yellowish.
 Dall.
Dall did not detect the retracted rhinophoria tentacles none  the black eyes sessile on the anterior surface of the body near the mantle margin did not exist in the figure but in one individual two black sandparticles were lying there.
The true eyes of the animal could not be detected through the skin and were lying more backwards.
branchial leaves and the anus otherwise naked.
 The genital opening as usual.
The foot rather large with a very fine furrow in the anterior margin.
The head as usual  the tentacles relatively rather large The three individuals were dissected.
The peritoneum was colorless.
The central nervous system quite as in the former species the visceral ganglions lying outside of the cerebral  no distal olfactory ganglion could be detected  the buccal ganglia connected through a commissure at least as long as the diameter of the ganglion  the gastroocsophageal ganglia and the eyes as in the former species.
The otocysts could not be detected.
In the leaves of the rhinophoria the spicula much more scanty.
In the skin the same kind of not much calcified spicula as in the former species  the papillae of the back very richly endowed with such and commonly with a mass of them projecting with their points PI.
IX fig.
16 on the surface of the papilke.
The bulbus pharyngeus as in the former species  the length about 1.5 mm. twofifths of which is the straight backwards projecting sheath of the radula  the cuticula of the lipdisk as usual  the buccal crop somewhat compressed with rather long pedicel.
The tongue with nine or ten rows of plates farther backwards sixteen or seventeen developed and three younger rows  the total number of them twentynine or thirty.
The median plates fig.
9a 10a nearly as in the former species or a little shorter.
The large lateral plates fig.
9b 106 rising to the height of 0.12 mm. yellow  their form as in the former species but at the inside of the hook at its root were three to six or seven to eight small denticles.
The external lateral plates fig.
lOcd 11 farther backwards in number constantly eight the outermost fig.
11a very small the others as in the former species.
The salivary glands as far as could be determined were as in the last species  so also the oesophagus and crop  also the stomach and the intestine which seemed to have the usual bag pancreas biliary sac at the pyloric part.
The sanguineous gland flattened grayish cordate.
The liver of brownishgray color.
In the hermaphroditic gland no ripe elements were found and the anterior genital mass was very small  According to Dall the  anus is terminal under the edge of the mantle.
This was erroneous.
He did not see the gill but regarded the dorsal papillae as branchial appendages.
The species is easy to distinguish from the former by its color and especially by the denticulated hook of the large lateral plates.
5 Adalaria Loveni Aldir et Hancock.
PI.
X fig.
6S. Doris muricata
O. F. Miiller Sars Bidr.
til Soedyreues Naturb. 1829 p. 15.
Tab.
11 fig.
7 8.
Doris Loveni Alder et Hanc.
Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist. 3 Ser. X 182 p. 262.
 Lamellidoris Loveni Friele et Arm.
Hansen 1. c. p. 3.
Lameliidoris Loveni G. O. Sars.
Moll.
reg.
arct.
Norv. 1878 p. 364.
Tab.
XIV fig.
1. 
Lamellidoris muricata Mull.
Abildgaard.
Morch Faunula Moll.
Ins.
Fiiroens.
Naturb.
Foren.
Yidsk.
Meddel. 1867 p.
75.'
Doris muricata Miiller Sars ' Loven lud.
Moll. 1846 p. 5.
Doris muricata M. Sars.
Reise i Lofoten og Fiumarken 1851 p. 75.
Color dorsi et rhinophoriarum e brunneo lutescens paginal inferioris et branchiae lutescens.
Dentes laterales magni hamo edentulo  externi linguae numero 12.
Hob.
Oc.
Atlant.
septentr.
This species was first noticed by Sars who hesitatingly regarded it as perhaps the Doris imiricata of Mueller.
It is moreover the principal form of the Doris muricata  Mueller Sars  of Lovt'n his second variety being the true L. muricata  has been established 1862 as a species by Alder and Hancock and has as such been adopted by Friele and Hansen as well as by G. O. Sars who lately gave figures of the teeth on the tongue.
The species has been much confounded with the ' D. muricata which is a Lamellidoris  it is certainly distinct from the Ad.
proximn and seems also to differ from the other described species.
Of this form I have had fifteen individuals for examination kindly sent me by Mr. Friele of Bergen and dredged in the neighborhood of that place. '
According to Morch Rink.
Gronland I 1857.
Tillaig 4 p. 78 the D. muricata Sars should bo the D. liturata Beck  this last is a mere variety of the Lamellidoris bilamellata and with this should on the other hand accoidiug to Morch Faunula Mollusc.
Isl.
Naturh Foren.
Vidensk.
Meddel. 1868 p. 203 the D. proximo of Meyer and Moebius be synonymous which belongs to the quite diflferent genus Adalaria.
An example more  if such were needed  of the way in which the Nudibranchiata have been .synonymized and systematized.
The color of the animals preserved in spirits was uniformly yellowish.
The length was 1315.0 mm. by a breadth of 8.59.5 and a height of 45.0 mm.
 the breadth of the foot 6 mm.
 the height of the rhinophoria about 2.5 mm. of the branchial leaves 1.01.3 mm.
 according to M. Sars the height of the rhinophoria is four to five times that of the tubercles of the back 1. c. p. 16 also in one of his figures fig 7.
The form as usual  the back .covered all over with large rounded tubercles which rose to the height of 1.5 mm. and were of a similar breadth  they were sessile or more or less subpedunculate sometimes set in indistinct longitudinal rows  between the larger tubercles everywhere were smaller ones of different sizes  on the margin of the back were tubercles of middle size or smaller  the spicula rather indistinct between and in the tubercles.
The rhinophoropenings as usual two large tubercles before them  the club of the organs with about twentyfive leaves.
The gill with eight to twelve leaves  according to M. Sars the number of branchial leaves is ten  to LovL'n eight to ten.
A large high tubercle between the hindermost leaves before it the low anal papilla and to the right side the renal pore  some few smaller papillae were spread over the space between the anus and the branchial leaves The head large broad  the short tentaculje pointed.
The genital opening as usual.
Six individuals were dissected.
The peritoneum was colorless.
The central nervous system rather flattened especially the visceral ganglia which lay on the outer side of and behind the cerebral ones' which were a little larger  the pedal ones larger than either of the other ganglia situated perpendicularly upon the former.
The proximal olfactory ganglia bulbiform a little smaller than the buccal ones  no distal could be found.
The length of the commissures equal to the largest diameter of the pedal ganglia  the subcerebropedal about three times as thick as the visceral.
'
he buccal ganglia of oval form connected through a short commissure  the gastrooesophageal about onesixth of the former in size with one very large cell.
The eyes with black pigment yellow lens  the nervus opticus about as long as the largest diameter of the cerebral ganglion.
'he otocyst of the same size as the eyes situated externally at the junction of the cerebral and the visceral ganglia  with about fifty ordinary otokonia but among them four to six larger ones of a diameter of about 0.025 mm.
The leaves of te rhinophoria nearly without spicula  in the axes and especially in the stalks on the contrary an enormous quantity of large spicula in great part transversely situated.
In the skin a rather large quantity of spicula.
The broad centres of the warts of the back chalkwhite in transverse section on account of the mass of strong spicula which ascend in bundles through the axes of the warts their peripheral parts being free from spicula.
The spicula for the most part staffshaped or cruciate reaching a diameter of about 0.08 mm.
 small and large rounded ones were also very common  the spicula mostly very strongly calcified.
In the interstitial tissue calcified cells were seen scantily.
The mouthtube was 1.5 mm.
long  the bulbus pharyngeus about I.
.5 mm.
long the sheath of the radula projecting about 75 mm. bent upwards  the suckingcrop nearly as large as the proper bulbus shortstalked.
The Hpdisk with the cuticula rather thick especially at the inferior median line here sometimes prominent and reminding one of the two blades in the AcantJwdorides.
The tongue in the six individuals examined with seven to nine rows of teeth  further backwards twentynine thirtyone or thirtyfour in three individuals developed and three younger rows  the total number of rows was thus fortytwo to fortysix.
The median plates fig.
8a and the large lateral fig.
6a Y 86 ones quite as in the Ad.
Pac'fica also the external ones fig.
6 J 8c but the number of those never surpassed ten or twelve  frequently all gone from the tongue and only existing in the two to four posterior rows  the height of the large lateral plates rising to about 0.09 mm.
The salivary glands as usual white.
The oesophagus somewhat wider in its first part  the stomach as usual  the liver of usual form its substance of yellow color  on the first quarter of the right side an impression for the anterior genital mass.
The vesica fellea rather smaller on the right side of and a little behind the pyloric part of the intestine with its upper end appearing on the surface of the liver  the duct nearly as long as the bag opening in the stomach.
The sanguineous gland of subquadratic form the largest diameter about 2.3 mm. very much flattened whitish.
The tube on the floor of the renal chamber rather strong.
The hermaphroditic gland clothing the liver with a thin whitishgray layer.
The anterior genital mass small nearly undeveloped much compressed of about 1.75 mm.
in length the height a little less.
The ampulla of the hermaphroditic gland thin otherwise as usual. '
According to Friele and Hansen 1. c. p. 3 the number of external plates is twelve  the figure of these authors Tab II fig.
1 is rather bad.
G. O. Sars has eleven to twelve external plates in his figure.
The spermatoduct as usual also the penis.
 The spermatotheca and the spermatocysta as usual.
The mucous gland very small whitish and yellow.
ACANTHODOEIS Graj.
Acanthodoris Gray Figs of Moll.
Animals iv 1850 p. 103 Guide Moll.
Brit.
Mas.
1857 p. 207.
AeaniJiodoris Alder and Hancock Mon.
Brit.
Nud.
Moll. vii 1855 p. 43 app.
p. xvii.
G. O. Sars Moll.
reg.
arct.
Norvegise 1878 p. 308 Tab.
xiv fig.
4.
Acanthodoris R. Bergh Gattung.
Nord.
Doriden 1. c 1879 p. 35G360.
Forma corporis subdepressa.
Nothaeum supra sat grosse villosum.
Branchia non retractilis e foliis tripinnatis non multis et in orbem positis formata.
Caput latum veliforme  tentaculis brevibus lobiformibus.
Margo aperturum rhinophorialium lobatus.
Discus labialis armatura e hamulis minutis formata et infra cuticula incrassata prominenti instructus.
Lingua rhachide nuda  pleuris angustis dente laterali hamiformi permagno et dentibus externie minutis48.
Ingluvies buccalis bulbo pharyngeo connata.
Penis armatura e hamulis minutis formata instruetus.
Vagina lonsissima.
'oThe genus Acanthodoris was established by Gray to receive the Doris pilosa with its nonretractile gill.
Alder and Hancock adopted the genus made an anatomical examination of the typical form and gave it natural characters which were then adopted by Gray.
In several new malacological publications of a systematic nature the genus has been omitted and in the last twenty years no new information has been published until G. O. Sars lately gave some notes on the bulbus pharyngeus.
The Acanthodorides approach the Lamellidorides yet differ externally in the scattered soft villosities of the back and in the smaller number of the leaves of the gill which are arranged in a circle.
Internally they differ still more in the presence of a strong oral armature in a different dentition 4  8410  1814 by a pecu' Sars 1. c. p. 16 mentions and figures fig.
8 the penis as a large white conical  organ.
liarly armed penis and by the imbedding in the pharyngeal bulbus of the buccal crop The Acanihodorides are not much depressed.
The back is covered with soft villi or papillte  the openings for the rhinophoria have lobed margins.
The gill is not retractile and consists of several generally seven to nine tripinnate leaves quite distinct from one another. The labial disk is provided with a densely set armature of small hooks passing backward on the cuticula of the mouth.
This last also in the lowest part of the mouth at each side of the median line is thickened and projects like two thin lancetshaped blades over the bare space left between the lower parts of the prehensile collar. The form of the bulbus pharyngeus is as in the Lamellidorides but the buccal crop is imbedded in the upper wall of the bulbus opening into it through a slit and is not connected with it by a short stalk.
The tongue is not broad but nearly fills the buccal cavity with a flat furrow for the radula.
This last has a naked rhachis with a low and narrow longitudinal fold.
The pleuraj contain a very large compressed upright lateral plate with a large body and a rather short strong hook denticulated or plain along the inner margin  at the outer side of the large plate are several four to eight small external plates increasing in number backwards.
The salivary glands long thicker in their foremost part.
The oesophagus with a little croplike diverticle at its root.
Above the pyloric part of the intestine opens a ' The genus Calycidoris of Abraham Notes on some new genera of Nudibranchiate Moll. Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist. 4th ser. xviii 1876 p. 132  and Revision of the Anthobranchiate Nudibr.
Moll. P. Z. S. 1877 p. 224 j which is said to be allied to the Acantlwdorides and Lamellidorides still differs by its  subretractile  gill with simple pinnate leaves and does not possess external plates on the radula.
The genus is very probably apocryphal  iu the phauerobranchiate Dorididm it often happens that the gill appears as if more or less retracted in a cavity.
A single new species is mentioned of unknown habitat the C. OuniJieri Abr. 1. c. p. 133 PL vi fig.
1.
' Alder and Hancock mention and figure 1. c PI.
15 fig.
2 3 the branchial leaves as united at the base  so do Meyer and Moebius 1. c p. 65  this is not the case.
The leaves are quite isolated but there are usually one or two foliola standing between them which might simulate a coherence of the leaves cf.
also PI.
xv fig.
6 A. and H.. '
These thickenings of the cuticle have been regarded both by Alder and Hancock and more lately by Meyer and Moebius 1. c p. 64 taf.
v A fig.
8 K 9 as jaws but have hardly anything in common with those organs properly so called.
7 little sac which seems to be homologous with the biliary sac pancreas autt.
of other Dorididse.
Alder and Hancock therefore have denominated that part of the digestive tract as  stomach although it in no essential respect differs from the rest of the intestine and is just like that part in the Chromodorides and should be undoubtedly regarded as the pyloric part of the intestine when that sac opened lower down as in the Chromodorides in the cavity which is included in the liver and seems to be the true stomach.
The spermatoduct and the chief duct of the spermatotheca vagina are of very considerable  length  the former consisting of two different parts a superior softer and an inferior very muscular part internally clothed with an armature which is continuous through the penis.
This last is rather short the superior part solid and projecting as an armed glans into the inferior hollow part prseputium.
The armature consists of rows of hooks continued in the interior of the organ and as mentioned above farther upwards  quite like that of the Polyceridse Fhyllidiidse and Doriopsidae.
 About the biological relations of these forms very little is yet known and that only with reference to the typical species through Alder and Hancock as well as Meyer and Moebius.
The spawn is figured by Alder and Hancock 1. c PI.
15 fig.
9 and by Meyer and Moebius 1. c fig.
13 14  about the development nothing is yet known.
The few known species of this genus seem limited to the northern parts of the Atlantic and of the Pacific.
1.
Acanthodoris pilosa O F. Miiller.
Oceanum Atlanticum et Pacificum Doris pilosa Cuv.
Doris stellata 6m.
 Cuv.
  Cf.
my Malacolog.
Unters.
Semper Philipp. II ii Heft xi 1877 p. 464494  Neue Nacktschnecken der Siidsee 11 Journ.
der Mus.
Godeffroy Heft viii 1875 p. 7282  idem iv 1. c Heft xiv 1879 p. 121.
2 Cf.
my Malacolog.
Uuters.
Semper Philipp. II ii Heft xi 1877 Trevelyana.
Nembrotha.
 Cf.
my Bidr.
til en Monogr.
af Phyllidierne Naturh. Tidskr.
3 R. V. 1869  Malacolog.
Unters.
Semper Philipp. II ii Heft x 1876 p. 377387.
 Cf. 1. c Heffc X 1876 p. 384387  Journ.
der Mus.
Godeffroy Heft viii 1875 p. 82 94.
 According to Fischer Note sur quelques especes du G. Doris decrites par Cuvier Journ de Conchyl.
3 ser.
x 1870 p. 290 the Doris stellata Cuv. and the D Icevis Cuv. are identical with his D. pilosa and this with the typical form of Miiller.
The D. stellata of Philippi seems a quite different form a Platydoris Doris Imvis Cuv.

Doris fv sea O. F.
Mull. Zool.
Dan.
descr..'

Doris tomentosa Loven Index Moll.
1846 p. 4.
3.
A. subquadrata Aid.
et Hanc.
Oceanum Atlanticum.
Doris subquadrata A. et H.
Monogr. Part.
V 1851 fam.
1 Plate 10 f. 13  Part VII 1855 p. 43 and III PI.
46 Suppl.
f. 14. 
D. stdlata Cuv.
.
Lebert Beob.
iiber die Mundung einiger Gasteropoden J. Muller Arch. 1846 p. 441446 Taf.
XII fig.
1013. S. A. cmrulescens Bgh. n. sp.
Oceanum Pacificum.
4.
A ornata Verrill.
Notice of recent additions to the mar.
fauna of the eastern coast of North Amer.
XXXVIII  Amer.
Journ.
of Sc.
and Arts XVI 1878 p. 318.
Oc.
Atlant.
5.
A. siellata Gm.
 Verr. 1. c p. 313 D. bifida Verr.
Oc.
Atlant.
6.
A. citrina Verr. 1. c p. 313.
Oc.
Atlant.
7.
A. f mollicella Abraham 1. c 1877 p. 228 PI.
XXX fig.
14.
Oc.
Pacincum.
8.
A. 
globosa Abr. 1. c 1877 p. 228 PI.
XXX fig.
59.
Oc.
Pacif.
I. Acanthodoris pilosa 0.
F. MUller.
Plate X fig.
1215 Plate XI fig.
12 Pl.te XII Plate XIII fig.
25.
Acanthodoris pilosa O. F. Muller Alder and Hancock.
Monogr.
Br.
Nudibr.
Moll. Part V 1851 fam.
1 Plate I f. 1 35 12 Plate 2 f. 26 Plate 15 Part VII 1855 Plate 46 Supph Plate 48 f. 1.
Doris pilosa O. F. Miiller Meyer und Moebius Fauna der Kieler Bucht I 1865 p. 6367 c.
tab.
 taf.
V A. 
Color pagin'cB superioris corporis albus vel luteus vel fuscus vel griseus vel rubrobrunneus vel niger.
Dentes radute barao pro parte denticulato.
Hab.
Oceanum Atlanticum septentr. Pacific septentr.
 Platyd.
FMlippii Bgh..
Cf.
my Malacolog.
Untersuch.
Semper Philipp.
II ii..
Heft xii 1877 p. 507. '
It is in most cases a quite useless task to try to elucidate the species of Dorides of the elder authors  their examinations vrere all too superficial and their descriptions don't contain the data necessary for their verification.
The best way would be to wholly cancel these names D. fusca M. D loRtis L. etc.
which have given later authors so much trouble.
On the Doris fusca of O. Fabricius Morch has even formed a genus Proctaporia Rink.
Gronland.
I 1857.
Tillag.
4 p. 78 that must be cancelled too.
 The short statements of Lebert about form and color of the animal examined by him can scarcely entirely prohibit the identification of it with the species described by Alder and Hancock.
The figures of the tongue teeth given by Lebert rough as they are suffice on the other hand to secure the identification with the D. subquadrata or at least with a nearly related species.
Of this species I have had a lot of specimens for examination all preserved in spirits partly two from the neighborhood of Bergen Norway kindly sent by Mr. Friele partly one from the Frith of Kiel sent by Prof. Moebius  but particularly seventeen from the coast of Denmark Striib lille Bait.
The individuals varied much in color.
The variability of the color is noted by Alder and Hancock They were whitish or whitish sprinkled with brownish or dark bluish gray or yellowish or brownish or reddishbrown on the back with whitish or yellowish sides and foot.
The length reaching 12.0 mm. by a breadth of 80 and a height of 5.0 mm.
 the foot then about 4.0 mm.
broad the branchial leaves reaching to the height of about 1.0 mm.
The back covered all over with the soft slender conical and pointed erect or curved papillas of very different sizes most of them small  between these are larger ones  some of the largest divided into two or three points and some of them connate and forming small crests divided above into two or three points.
The margins of the sheaths of the rhinophoria rather prominent divided into several six to eight smaller and larger pointed lobes  the club of the rhinophoria with about twelve to twenty leaves. The branchia in both Norwegian specimens with eight tripinnate leaves otherwise with seven to nine as mentioned by Meyer and Moebius.
The anal papilla low with several papillulag and a starshaped aperture  on a low crest issuing from its posterior is a strong papilla.
The head and the tentacles Plate X fig.
lib as figured by Alder and Hancock 1. c Plate 15 fig.
1.
The anterior margin of the foot with a fine transverse furrow Plate X fig.
14a.
The genital opening is a longitudinal slit Plate XI fig.
2.
The peritoneum was mostly of reddishbrown color.
The central nervous system showed the cerebral ganglia roundedtriangular not much flattened a little larger than the more rounded visceral which lie behind and on the outside of them and show a slight notch in the outside  on the inferior side of the visceral ganglia the pedal ones are set nearly perpendicular on the latter connected by the  Alder and Hancock also Meyer and Moebius give eighteen to twenty leaves.
Cf.
the figures 78 of Meyer and Moebius.
 Collingwood Ann.
Mag.
N H. 3 ser.
vi 1859 p. 463 remarks that it  when not in motion bears a great resemblance to a miniature hedgehog.
 The representation of the system given by Hancock and Embleton On the anatomy of Doris Philos.
Transact.
MDCCCLH Plate 17 f. 8 is not very like nature.
three distinct commissures which are nearly as long as the diameter of the ganglia.
From the outer part of the right visceral ganglion issues a nerve nearly as long as the transverse diameter of the whole central nervous system and swelling to a rather large ganglion gangl.
penis at the root of the penis  this ganglion contains only rather small cells and gives off three or four strong and several thinner nerves Plate X fig.
15.
The part of the brain which gives off the nervus opticus simulates a ganglion.
The proximal ganglia olfactcia bulbiform somewhat smaller than the buccal ganglia but much larger than the distal ganglia olfactoria  the buccal ganglia flattened rounded connected by a rather short commissure  the ganglia gastrooesophagalia rounded having about onefifth of the size of the last containing one very large cell and a few smaller.
The eyes with black pigment and yellowish lens.
The otocysts lying at the hinder part of the cerebral ganolia as large as the eyes  with numerous small otokonia which in the specimens from Kiel were not much calcified.
No trace of spicula in the leaves or other parts of the riiinophoria.
The spicula of the skin were so to speak limited to the margins of the mantle and of the foot  in the last they were chiefly arranged perpendicularly or obliquely against the margin except that in the foremost and hinder part of the sole some few spicula were seen scattered.
The amount of spicula in the skin seems to vary notably in the Acanthodoris piJosa as seems to be the case in general in different forms of Dorididce especially as far as hitherto known in the Polyceratidce Polycera Ancula.
Cf.
Meyer and Moebius Fauna der Kieler Bucht I 1865 pp.
52 60.
Frey and Leuckart Beitr.
zur Kenntn.
wirbellose Thiere 1847 p. 145  described a very regular position of the spicula but not as it seems in accordance with nature.
In the margin of the mantle the spicula were arranged as figured by Alder and Hanc. 1. c. Part VII PI.
48 supplem.
fig.
1 only more concentrically at the transition from the margin to the side of the body a narrow belt of spicula crossed the back before the region of the gill.
Some spicula were also seen in the tentacles.
The spicula reached a notable length at least 0.6 mm. in old individuals they were more calcified than in younger ones.
The skin was filled with unicellular glands especially in the dorsal papilla.'
The mouthtube was wide and strong about 1.5 mm.
long the bulbus pharyngeus in the largest individuals about 2.75 mm.
long by  Cf.
the not very good fig.
6 by Meyer and Moebius.
a breadth of 2.0 and a height of about 3.0 mm.
 the sheath of the radula projecting backward nearly 1.0 mm.
 the lipdisk sometimes surrounded by a ring of black pigment.
The armature of the lipdisk entirely as shown PI.
XII figs.
14 1011 by me in the form from the Pacific also the crop PI.
XIII fig.
2 of the bulbus.'
The tongue in the eight specimens examined was provided with five seven eight nine rows of plates farther backwards also sixteen to twenty developed and three younger rows the total number amounting thus to from twentyseven to thirty. The large lateial teeth yellow in the body especially in the anteriorinferior part with commonly five to eight denticles on the inside of the hook  sometimes especially in the younger plates the number of denticles rose from eleven to fifteen sometimes the three to four outermost denticles were much larger than the rest sometimes the denticulation was quite irregular  the height of this plate reached 0.4 mm.
The outer plates PI.
XI fig.
1 commonly four to six seldom seven to eight  in a series of four on the hinder part of the tongue the outermost measured about 0.05 the next 0.09 0.11 0.125 mm.
 they were quite colorless compressed with the upper side flattened and rather erect.
The salivary glands as in the purplecolored form from the Pacific.
No constant dilatation of the middle of the oesophagus as figured PI.
I f. 12' by Alder and Hancock but a strong particular one at the root as figured 1. c. PI.
I f. 12j by Alder and Hancock and by me Gatt.
nordischer Doriden 1. c. Taf.
XIX fig.
14r.
The stomach as in the Pacific form  the intestine sometimes dilated in its first part sometimes absolutely of the same caliber as the rest and neither externally nor internally different from it  a little bag biliary sac which has been noticed by Alder and Hancock 1. c. PI I fig.
12' opening into the right side of this part of the intestine.
The posterior visceral mass liver flattened and excavated on the anteriorinferior right half.
The sanguineous gland whitish convexoconcave short and irregularly kidneyformed with the excavation  The first specimens of the Nortliern Atlantic left at my disposition being too small and too few for a thorough examination I am obliged to refer to my examination given herewith of the form fiom the Pacific.
Cf.
moreover my figures iu Gatt.
uord.
Doriden 1. c. PI.
XIX figs.
10 11.
The crop is rather well figured by Alder and Hanc.
1. c. PI.
I f 12c.
 According to Meyer and Moebius the number of plates of the radula is thirtyone to Alder and Hancock twentyseven.
 Cf.
my Gattungeu nordischer Doriden 1 c. Taf.
XIX fig.
12. forwards transversely situated with a largest diameter of 3.0 mm.
The renal chamber and the syrinx as in the form from the Pacific.
The hermaphroditic gland as in this last variety its white color contrasting with the hue of the liver.
The anterior genital mass of short pyramidal form with the point outwards about 4.75 mm.
long the breadth and the height a little less.
The ampulla of the hermaphroditic gland yellowishwhite forming a single ansa about 4.0 mm.
long by a diameter of 0.75 mm.
lying on the upper part of the back of the mucous gland.
The spermatoduct yellowish about 15.0 mm.
long constricted a little above the middle of its length  strong sloping into the penis which is about 1.0 mm.
long.
The armature of the penis entirely as in the form from the Pacific continued backwards in the interior of the spermatoduct for a length of 6.0 mm.
 the hooks rising to the height of about 0.035 mm. nearly colorless. The spermatotheca PI.
XIII fig.
5a spherical of a diameter of about 2 mm. greenish or whitish  the spermatocysta fig.
56 much smaller pyriform yellowish  both filled with sperma The chief duct the vagina fig.
5dd very long with several four longitudinal folds which are folded again transversely  the structure seemed to resemble entirely the form from the Pacific  in the cavity was more or less sperma.
The mucous gland yellow and yellowishwhite  the fold of the duct with brownishgray points but no black pigment on the lower part of the vagina or penis.
One specimen of this typical form with brown mantle and in all respects agreeing with the Atlantic was dredged by Dall at Kyska in June 1873 on rocky bottom at the depth of ten fathoms.
An individual of a in living state  yellowishwhite  variety was dredged by Dall in Popoff Strait Shumagin Islands on rocky bottom at a depth of six fathoms.
The animal preserved in spirits was 10.0 mm.
long by a breadth of 6.0 and a height of 4.5 mm.
 the rhinophoria 1.5 mm.
high the eill 1.0 mm. the foot 3.0 mm.
broad.
The color yellowishwhite.
In the club of the rhinophoria about thirty leaves  nine branchial leaves  the anal papill.i with three small protuberances  the renal pore very distinct on the right side.
The genital opening very wide  the bulbus pharyngeus 2.0 mm.
long  the tongue with seven rows of plates the total number of these twentysix 16  3  five external  The armature of the penis has been first seen by H. Friele and G. Armauer Hansen Bidr.
til Kundsk.
om de Norske Nudibranchiar.
Christiania Vidsk.
Selsk.
Forh. 1875 extras p. 4.
plates.
The diverticle of the oesophagus nearly as large as the true bulbus.
The spermatoduct and the penis as usual also the vagina  the spermatotheca of 1.6 mm.
largest diameter.
No trace of pigment on the vagina or penis and the peritoneum was colorless.
Another variety of the species with  brown mantle and yellowishwhite papilljB was dredged by Dall in Yukon Harbor Shumagins in August 18t4 on sand and stones at a depth of six to twenty fathoms.
The individual preserved in spirits was 9.0 mm.
long by a breadth of 6.5 mm. and a height of 4.5 mm.
 the breadth of the foot 4.0 mm. the height of the gill 1.5 mm.
The back of the animal densely browndotted especially the circumference of the gill and the free area left in the middle of the gill  the dorsal papillae all whitish  the stalk of the rhinophoria and the inferior part of the club densely dotted with brown also in a somewhat slighter degree the outside of the branchial leaves.
The under side of the mantle and the upper side of the margin of the foot and in a slighter degree the sides of the body and the sole of the foot dotted with an enormous quantity of brownishgray points.
The form as usual.
The gill with nine leaves of which the two posterior were much smaller than the others.
The central nervous system as usual  the otocysts very conspicuous under the magnifier as chalkwhite points.
The mouthtube 2.0 mm.
long.
The bulbus pharyngeus 2.0 mm.
long  the sheath of the radula projecting 2.0 mm. bent downwards.
The armature of the lipdisk PI.
XII fig.
10 m very like that of the var.
albescens cf.
PI.
XIII fig.
4.
The buccal crop as usual.
The tongue with nine rows of plates the total number of rows twentyfive 13 f 3.
The large lateral plates as usual  the djnticulations rather long and somewhat irregular.
The number of the external plates fig.
12 reaching to six.
The salivary glands the oesophagus with its diverticle the pyloric part of the intestine with its bag biliary sac and the liver as usual.
The sanguineous gland rather large covering besides the central nervous system the whole of the bulbus pharyngeus.
In the lobes of the hermaphroditic gland masses of zojsperms.
The anterior genital mass of the usual form  the ampulla of the hermaphroditic duct somewhat larger.
The spermatoduct as usual  so too the penis with its armature  the length of the glans about 0.5 mm.
The spermatotheca and the spermatocjsta as usual also the chief duct vagina the cavity of the last filled with sperma.
The mucous gland yellowishwhite and in the centre albuminous gland brownishyellow.
Very scanty black pigment on the inferior part of the vagina and of the penis  the peritoneum of the back on the contrary very lark brown.
2.
Acanthodoris pilosa 0.
F. MUUer var.
albescens PL X fig.
14 15  PI.
XI fig.
2  PI.
XII fig.
1316.
Color flavescentealbidus.
Hamus dentium lingua edentulus vel parce denticulatus.
Habitat.
Oceanum Pacificum septentrion.
Aleutian Islands.
Two rather large specimens of this variety have been dredged by Dall in June and July 1813 at Kyska Harbor Aleutians on sand or on rocky bottom at a depth of nine to fourteen fathoms.
According to Dall the color of the living animal was yellowishwhite   that of the specimens preserved in spirits was so too but very likely much more whitish.
The length was 16.0 or 17.0 mm. by a breadth of 6.5 to 8.0 mm. and a height of 6.5 mm.
 the hight of the rhinophoria 2.5 to 3.0 mm. of the gill 3.0 to 4.0 mm.
 the breadth of the foot 5 or 6.0 mm. the length of the genital opening 2.0 or 3.0 mm.
The form as in the typical D. jnlosa the rhinophoria showed about twentyfive broad leaves in the club  there were nine branchial leaves  the anal papilla very low  the renal pore rather large.
The central nervous system as previously described.
The distal olfactory ganglion small  a large diameter 0.4 mm.
ganglion penis fig.
15.
The eyes with rich coalblack pigment  the otocysts visible under a lens as chalkwhite points with about one hundred and fifty otokonia.
The bulbus pharyngeus 8.5 mm.
long with the sheath of the radula projecting 1.3 to 1.5 mm.
 the height of the bulbus with the crop 4.0 to 4.5 mm. its breadth 2.5 to 3.0 mm.
The older elements of the lipplate PI.
XII figs.
13 14 agreeing in form with those of the typical species but oftener showing a granulated interior  the said elements reaching a length of about 0.04 mm.
The diameter of the disk and mouth about 3.0 mm.
The breadth of either half of the disk 0.66 mm.
The tongue showed nine or ten rows of teeth  the whole number of rows twentynine 16 or 1743.
The large lateral teeth were as in the typical species reaching 0.65 mm.
in height PI.
XII fig.
15 16 without or with only a very slight denticulation of the hook fig.
15.
The number of the outer teeth three to five.'
' Cf.
my Gatt.
nordischer Doriden 1. c Taf.
xix fig.
13.
The salivary glands deeply imbedded in the cavity for the oesophagus at the foreend of the liver.
The oesophagus with its rather large 1.5 mm.
long diverticle the stomach the intestine with its little 1.0 mm.
long bag as above.
The liver 7.0 to 9.0 mm.
long 5.0 to G.O mm.
broad 5.0 to 6.25 mm.
high of yellowishgray color.
The sanguineous gland of irregular oval form of a largest diameter of 4.0 mm. by a thickness of 1.0 mm. and of grayish color.
The renal syrinx about 0.75 mm.
long.
The anterior genital mass Q.O or 7.0 mm.
long 4.0 to 6.0 mm.
high and 3.0 or 4.0 mm.
thick.
The ampulla as usual also the about 40.0 mm.
long spermatoduct and the nearly 2.0 mm.
long penis with its armature  the hooks often set in pairs.
The spermatotheca diameter 4.0 mm.
and the spermatocysta diameter 1.5 mm.
as above  the chief duct with the vagina about 23.0 mm.
long by a diameter of 0.4 to 1.0 mm.
 as usual and also its internal cellular clothing PI.
X fig.
13  the yellow nucleoli somewhat brighter the cavity nearly filled with sperma.
The mucous gland as usual.
No black pigment on the inferior part of the vagina or on the penis.
S. Acanthodoris pilosa 0.
F. MUller mr. purpvrea PI.
XII fig.
19.
Color e purpureo brunneus et flavescentealbidus.
Habitat.
Oceanum Pacificum septentrion.
Insula
Aleutiana
Unalashka.
Only two specimens of this species were dredged by Dall in September 1874 on mud and stones at a depth of about sixty fathoms.
The color of the living animal was according to Dall ' purplebrown and jellowishwhite.
The length of the animals preserved in spirits was 24.0 or 25.0 mm. by a breadth of 9.0 or 10.0 mm. and a height of 7.5 mm.
 the foot 6.0 mm.
broad the height of the rhinophoria about 3.0 mm. of the branchial leaves 2.3 mm.
The color of the back reddishbrown  the stalk of the rhinophoria brownish the club yellowish  the branchial leaves yellowishwhite the last brownish at the rhachis  the under side of the mantle margin with the sides of the body the head and the foot yellowishwhite dotted with brownishgray all over the color much more scanty on the sides of the foot and still more so on the head and on the sole of the foot.
The form was somewhat elongate.
The back covered all over with pointed rather 0.75 mm  high digitiform soft papilla3 and with inter mixed smaller ones.
The margin of the rhinophorholes with several pointed projecting digitiform processes  the stout club of the rhinophoria with about twenty leaves.
The branchial leaves stronjr in both individuals eiglit in number the two hindermost separateil by a narrow crest which rises into a larger papilla  before this the anal papilla covered with some papilloe at its right side is the rnal pore  on the space before it were several smaller papilla.
The under side of the free margin of the mantle about 2.0 mm broad smooth.
The head large the tentacles short.
The genital opening a rather large crescentic orifice.
The foot rounded behind.
The peritoneum was richly dotted on the back with brownishred.
The central nervous system nearly quite as in Ac.
pilosa the proximal olfactory ganglia of oval form true distal ones could not be detected in the root of the rhinophoria but only a fusiform swelling of the nerve with scattered nervous cells.
The subcerebral and pedal commissures connected the visceral isolated.
The buccal ganglia larger than the olfactory of oval form connected by a commissure nearly as long as each ganglion  the gastro oesophageal ganglia developed on the side of the nerve which is a little longer than the ganglion and in size about onefifth of the former  the contents one very large cell three or four smaller and several quite small ones.
On the upper part of the penis the large ganglion genitale of about the diameter of 03 mm. rounded partly covered with black pigment consisting of only rather small cells  in the first parts of the nerves given off from the ganglion one or two rows of nervous cells of the same kind as in the ganglion.
The eyes with black pigment yellow lens  the optic nerve rather long.
As chalkwhite points the otocysts were situated on the hinder part of the cerebral ganglia where they touched the pedal ones  they were filled with solid yellowish otokonia of about the usual form and size but in both respects rather irregular.
In the leaves of the rhinophoria no spicula.
In the margin of the mantle and of the foot almost no spicula at all but everywhere in the skin especially on the back and the papilla were an enormous quantity of large and small glandular openings.
In the interstitial connective tissue were hardly any calcified cells at all.
The mouthtube was about 2.3 ram.
long wide with a glandular belt on the outside not closed below  on the inside lined with a yellowish cuticula.
The bulbus pharyngeus strong about 4.0 mm.
long and the sheath of the radula projecting nearly 10 mm.
from the posterior part of the under side directed straight backwards or downwards  the height through the buccal crop 4.0 mm. the breadth 2.5 mm.
The buccal crop making nearly half of the whole bulbus and of the usual form  the walls very thick  the compressed and rather small cavity communicating through a long cleft with the anterior half of the small buccal cavity.
The lipdisk fig.
1 of rounded contour clothed throughout its whole breadth on each side to about 0.5 mm.
with the light hornyellow colored armature  the lowest part of this as usual in the Acanthodorides injured or wanting  the breadth of the belt decreasing towards the upper end where it is interrupted in the middle line also at the lower end.
The armature fig.
2 36 4 composed of hooks whose points are directed forwards towards the opening of the mouth nearly like but still differing a little from those in the typical Ac.
piloHO reaching the height of about 0.04 mm. yellowish with rounded bifid or irregularly cleft points.
The lancetshaped fig.
la 2a 3a blades at the inferior angle of the mouth as usual.
The tongue with nine or ten sei'ies of plates farther backwards thirteen to fifteen developed and three undeveloped series  the total number in this way twentyfive to twentyeight.
The large lateral plates relatively larger than in the Ac.
pilosa and fig.
5 6 less thick in the anteriorinferior part of the body with relatively larger hook  the denticulation of this last much weaker and much more irregular  in one specimen generally two to four denticles sometimes only a few vei'y insignificant ones or none at all fig.
6  and this was the case with the other specimen in which only some few plates showed two small denticles.
 The outer lateral plates as in the typical form scarcely more than from four to six.
The salivary glands whitish rather strong at their short first part in the rest of their length thin fig.
7 accompanying the oesophagus to the cardia  the duct rather short fig.
7a.
The oesophagus forming a little crop with thin walls and longitudinal folds on the inside in the rest of its length rather thin.
The stomach rather small with the usual biliary apertures.
The intestine fig.
8a somewhat inflated in its first part with many rather strong folds and one particularly thick  a little over the point where it appears on the surface of the visceral mass on the right side a little scarcely pedunculated bag fig.
8 of the length of 1.0 to 1.25 mm. with fine longitudinal folds  the rest of the intestine fig.
8c somewhat narrower the total length of the intestine about 12.0 to 13.0  Although very like the plates of the Atlantic form they still bore a somewhat peculiar aspect.
 Cf my Gattungen uordischer Doriden 1. c Taf.
xix fig.
14.
mm. by a diameter of 1.0 to 1.5 mm.
The contents of the stomach and of the intestine indeterminable animal matter mixed with an enormous quantity of different and partly very handsome forms of Diatomacese with some polylhalamia and some small copepoda and fragments of the same.
The liver about 99.5 mm.
long by a breadth at the forepart of 6.55.5 and a height of 6.256.0 mm.
 the posterior half somewhat pointed the anterior notably flattened and excavated on the right side  around the cardia the liver appeared naked not covered by the hermaphroditic gland of greenish gray color in sections it was yellowish.
The ramifications of the aorta nearly as in the typical Dorididce the root of the posterior aorta still longer and the Art.
syringis renalis stronger and more ramified.
The sanguineous gland yellowishwhite rather flattened of irregular triangular form lobulated about 3.5 mm.
long.
The renal chamber large  the yellowishwhite renal syrinx about 0.75 mm.
long its tube somewhat more than twice as long immediately continuous with the tube on the floor of the renal chamber.
The hermaphroditic gland easily distinguishable from the liver through its more whitish color the secondary ovigerous lobes rather small in the lobes zodsperms and large oogene cells.
The anterior genital mass of planoconvex heartshape with the point down and backwards the length about 5.0 mm.
by a breadth of 4.0 and a height of 5.0 mm.
The ampulla of the very thin and white hermaphroditic duct resting on the upper posterior part of the mucous gland yellow short and thick 4.0 mm.
long by a diameter of about 1.25 mm.
forming a simple ansa.
The vas deferens yellowish strong resting upon the upper side of the genital mass with its large coils and freely descending before its anterior margin to the penis constricted about the fig.
9c middle of its total length 30.035.0 mm..
The penis forming the end of the spermatoduct somewhat thicker about 2.0 mm.
long somewhat curved  its lower part hollow the rest solid and prominent in the cavity of the former as a cylindrical glans of the length of about 6 mm.
The glans with about ten series of yellowish hooks which from a rather large basis raised to the height of about 0.04 mm.
 the continuation of the armature reaching through the interior of the glans and of the spermatoduct nearly up to the stricture of the last but the  Cf.
my Malacolog.
Unters.
Semper Philipp.
Tab.
XLVIH fig.
11. number of sei'ies here smaller about five to eight.
The spermatotheca whitish forming an oval bag of 3.0 mm.
largest diameter  the spermatocysta yellowish of 1.31.5 mm.
largest diameter the ducts as in the typical Ac.
pilosa.
The chief duct too very about 25.0 mm.
long rolled up in many coils partly spiral the diameter varying between about 0.3 and 0.15 mm.
 the last fourth of the duct vagina with scattered black pigment somewhat narrower and with a rather strong retractor muscle at its commencement  the interior of this duct with some few strong longitudinal folds clothed with a cuticula and under the same a very fine layer of round and angulated cells with a large round or oval nucleus of the diameter of about 0.4 mm.
and a rather large yellow nucleolus PI.
X fig.
13.
In the cavity of the vagina more or less sperma.i The mucous gland yellowish and white  the central mass albuminous gland yellow  the duct with scattered black pigment on the outside also on the outside of the lower part of the penis with the usual fold.
The vestibulum genitale with black pigment on the folds the same pignaent was seen in the lowest part of the cavity of the penis and of the vagina and on the folds of the duct of the mucous gland.
A very similar animal but  with brown mantle'' was dredged by Dall in Kyska Harbor Aleutians in July 1873 on sand at a depth of nine to fourteen fathoms.
It was of large size  the length 21.0 mm. by a breadth of 11.0 and a height of 9.0 mm.
 the margin of the mantle 2.0 mm.
broad the foot 6.0 mm.
broad  the height of the rhinophoria and of the gill 3 mm.
 the genital aperture 3.0 mm.
broad.
The color dirty brown on the upper side  the rhinophoria and the branchial leaves yellowish dotted with grayish especially on the stalk of the rhinophoria  the sole of the foot yellowish the under side of the animal whitish  the under side everywhere with an enormous quantity of gray and black dots.
The number of branchial leaves nine.
The peritoneum blackbrown  the central nervous system eyes otocysts as previously described.
The bulbus pharyngeus of the length of 4.5 mm.
by a breadth of 3.0 and a height with the crop of 4T5 mm.
 the sheath of the radula projecting 1.25 mm.
 the crop alone of the height of 2.3 mm.
and 3.25 mm.
broad.
The lipdisk as above the thickenings in the lowest part of the mouth 1.2 mm.
long of which nearly half freely projected.
On the tongue nine rows of ' The length of the spermatoduct and the duct of the spermatotheca vagina was much more considerable than in the typical form.
plates farther backwards eighteen developed and three younger rows the total number thirty the plates denticulated as previously mentioned the height of the large plates rising to 07 mm.
 the number of external plates four to five.
The oesophageal diverticle of a largest diameter of about 3.0 mm.
The pars pylorica of the intestine of about 4.5 mm.
length with higher folds than in the rest of the intestine which had a length of about 15.0 mm.
 the bag at the first part of the intestine 1.5 mm.
long.
The liver 12.0 mm.
long by a breadth of 8.0 and a height of 6.0 mm.
The sanguineous glands whitish 5.0 mm.
long by a breadth of 6.0 mm.
and 2.0 mm.
thick convexoconcave the foreend flattened by the buccal crop the hinder end with two transverse furrows produced by two coils of the spermatoduct  the anterior genital mass 8.0 mm.
long by a breadth of 3.5 and a height of 7.5 mm.
The ampulla of the hermaphroditic duct 5.0 mm.
long whitish.
The coils of the spermatoduct and of the vagina in this individual covering the upper side of the mucous gland and ascending to the back between the pharyngeal bulbus and the liver  a coil of the former embraced the sheath of the radula.
The first part of the spermatoduct 12.0 mm.
long the last of the length of about 25.0 mm  the penis about 3.5 mm.
long the armature as usual.
The spermatotheca nearly spherical of 3.5 mm.
diameter  the spermatocysta yellowish round with a diameter of 1.5 mm.
 the chief duct vagina 33.0 mm.
long with a general diameter of 1.2 mm.
 the structure of the wall as above  the last narrower part from the m. retractor downwards 5.0 mm.
long.
'J he vestibulum as well as the inferior part of the vagina and of the penis with very scanty black pigment.
4.
Acanthodoris caerulescens Bgh. n. sp.
Plate XIII fig.
67  Plato XIV fig.
16.
Color paginas superioris corporis caerulescens.
Dentes radulae hamo per totam fere longitudinem deuticulato.
Hah.
Mare Beringianum Nunivak Island.
One specimen of this species was found by Dall at the north end of Nunivak Island Bering Sea in July 1874 on stony bottom at the depth of eight fathoms.
According to Dall the color of the living animal was bluish.
The animal preserved in alcohol had the length of 14.0 mm.
by a height of 5.0 and a breadth of 8.0 mm.
 the length of the foot was 12.5 mm.
by a breadth of 6.5 mm.
 the height of the rhinophoria 2.0 of the branchial leaves 1.5 ram.
The color uniformly yellowishwhite with the back of a slightly bluiah hue.
The form elongateoval.
The back covered all over with irregular the greatest height reaching about 1.5 mm.
 conical rather soft and flexible papillte in general larger than in the typical species.
The margin of the rhinophorholes thin somewhat prominent with two anterior strong tubercles and a posterior much smaller one  the stalk of the club rather low the latter with about twentyfive to thirty leaves.
The branchia consisting of nine to ten leaves the adjacent border set with several strong tubercles  the branchial leaves quite isolated at their base apparently simply pinnate.
The anus prominent before the same a small tubercle behind it a much larger one.
The margin of the mantle rather thin on the upper side covered with a mass of smaller and larger papillse and tubercles the under side smooth.
The head broad flat with prominent rounded flattened tentacula.
The foot broad rounded behind.
The central nervous system as in the typical species  the buccal ganglia rounded the commissure between them very short.
The eyes with black pigment and yellow lens.
The otocysts a little smaller than the eyes with numerous otokonia of the usual form and reaching a length of 0.03 mm.
The leaves of the rhinophoria without spicula  in the axes of the organs large molecularly calcified cells and groups of smaller calcified cells.
In the papillae of the skin of the back were no spicula at all on their surface the usual large quantity of glandular cells  in the skin beneath the papillte cells and groups of cells as in the case of the rhinophoria.
The mouthtube rather wide with strong cuticula.
The bulbus pharyngeus formed apparently as in the typical species  the lipplate composed of many rows of rather low the height rising to about 0.02 mm.
 very fig.
6 finely striated columns.
The tongue with ten rows of teeth  further back twentysix developed and three undeveloped rows  the total number thus thirtynine.
The lateral plates large yellow of usual form with a series of denticles along nearly the whole of the inner margin of the hook fig.
16a.
The external plates colorless eight in number somewhat depressed fig.
7 16 obKquely rising from the cuticula of the tongue fig.
7 of nearly equal size excepting the outermost fig.
16 which is much smaller.
The salivary glands seemed of the usual form.
The oesophagus and the stomach as usual.
The intestine issuing from the liver at the middle of its length on the left side rather short.
The liver of the length of about 9.0 mm.
by a breadth and a height of about 4.2 mm.
 the right anterior half excavated on account of the anterior genita mass  the color brownishgray.
The heart and the sanguineous gland as usual also the renal chamber and the renal syrinx.
The hermaphroditic gland by its yellowish color contrasting with the liver clothing the under side part of the left side and its right anterior half.
The anterior genital mass rather compressed about 6.0 mm.
long by a breadth of 2.0 mm.
The ampulla of the hermaphroditic duct rather short sausageshaped about 2.3 mm.
long curved and whitish.
The larger part of the penis was gone but hooks were seen in the remaining part as in the typical species.
The sperma totheca rather large bagshaped about 3.5 mm.
long  the vagina rather wide about 10.0 ram.
long.
The mucous gland white and the albuminous gland yello wishwhite.
 This species seems very distinct from the typical one by its color and by the different form of denticulation of the large plates of the tongue.
POLYCERATID.
This large family so rich in generic forms was found represented in the northern Pacific only by two generic types Polycera and Iriopha.
POLYCERA Cuvier.
Polycera.
Cuvier 1812
 Regneanitn. 1817 ii p. 390. Regneanim. ed.
2 ill p. 52.
Themisto Oken Lehrb.
der Zool. 1815 p. 278.
Cufaa Leach Moll.
Britann.
Synopsis 1852 p. 21.
Polycera C Aid.
and Hanc Observ.
on the genus Polycera Ann.
Mag.
of Nat.
Hist. vi 1841 p. 337342 PI.
IX.
Limacia O. Fr.
Miiller Zool.
Dan. i 1781 p. 6568. Phanerobranchus A. Fredol MoquinTandon Le monde de la mer 1864 PI.
xii figs.
1 2.
 The anterior genital mass was so hardened and altered tliat the nature of its different components could not be determined with certainty.
2 According to a note of Hermaunsen under the genus Themisto Oken Ind.
Gen. Malacoz primordia ii 1849 p. 572 the genus Polycera was established by Cuvier 1812 but this is probably a typographical error since under the genus Polycera itself he indicates only the year 1817  Dall cf. 1. c p. 314. '
Limacia Hartm. Neue Alpina i 1821 p. 208 Arion Fer..
8 Limbus frontalis digitatus vel tuberculatus.
Branchia SYfoliata.
Appendices dorsales extrabranchiales 13.
Tentacula brevia lobiformia.
Lamelhe mandibulares laterales forte sat applanataj.
Radula rhachide nuda  pleuris dentibus lateralibus hamatis duobus margine Isevi interne minore externo majore et dentibus externus 48.
Prostata magna  pleuris ut in omnibus Polyceratis.
The genus Polycera was established by Cuvier 1812 
 to receive the Doris quadrilineata of Miiller and in 1830 allied forms  a few years afterwards 1815 and not knowing the genus of Cuvier Oken formed his Themisto nearly identical with the Polycera of Cuvier.
 The Gufeea of Leach 1852 is entirety congeneric with the genera of Cuvier and Oken as is also very likely the Phanerobranchus of A. Fredol MoquinTandon.
The Limacia of 0.
Fr.
Muller 1781 contains a whole series of different Nudibranchiata among them the D. quadrilineata and as firstnamed species the D. verrucosa the name cannot therefore be employed here.
Although tlirough Cuvier and Alder 1841 their external characters were somewhat made known still Polycera like so many other Nudibranchiata remained very superficially known until the laroe monograph of Alder and Hancock  that first really unveiled their external and internal structure although Frey and Leuckarf'' had given some anatomical notices of these animals.
Lately more light has been spread over the northern species of the group through the investigations of Meyer and Moebius and of G. O.
Sars.
 The true Polycera shows a form of body common to the whole family.
The welldeveloped frontal margin is more or less curved in  A careful search has failed to find any other ground for supposing that Cuvier described the genus Polycera in 1812 or at any date before 1817 so that the 1812 of Hermaunsen is almost certainly merely a misprint.
The name Themisto of Oken if congeneric should therefore take precedence.
 Dall.
1 Alder and Hancock Monogr.
Brit.
Nudibr.
Moll. Part 2 1846 fam.
1 PI.
23  Part 4 1848 fam.
1 PI.
24  Part 5 1851 fam.
1 PI.
22  Part 6 1854 fam.
1 PI.
17 anat.

 Part 7 1855 PI.
46 supplem.
figs.
20 21.
' Frey and Leuckart Beitr.
zur Kenntn.
wirbellose Thiere 1847 p. 6670 taf.
i fig.
1 13.
3 Meyer and Moebius Fauna der Kieler Bucht i 1865 p. 4957 m. 2 taf.
uud taf.
iv.
A B.
 G. 0.
Sars Moll.
reg.
arct.
Norv. 1878 p. 312 813 Tab.
xiv fig.
1416. the middle with its free margin tuberculated or digitate.
The frontal veil is continued in a more or less tuberculated ridge that limits the true back and posteriorly ends in a single strong or in several smaller dorsal branchial appendices on the outside of and behind the region of the gill.
The true back with longitudinal rows of more or less developed connected tubercles sometimes forming low longitudinal ridges.
The number of leaves in the club of the rhinophoria is not large.
The gill is composed of a moderate number five to seven of leaves which are either simply pinnate or composite bior tripinnate.
The tentacles are small flattened or auriculate.
The jaws or mandibular plates in form somewhat recall those of the uolidiidce strong flattened sometimes with a peculiar superior process.
The rhachis of the radula naked  on the pleura
two large hookformed lateral teeth of which the outer is much larger than the inner  at the outside of the laterals are four to eight somewhat flattened uncina.
A large prostate gives the genital apparatus a particular feature  the armature of the penis is of the usual kind.
About the biological relations of Polycera very little is known as usual among the Nudibranchiata.
The spawn of the most common northern species is known and a part of the developmental history has been investigated by Ray Lankester.'
A small number of species have been described by different authors in the course of years.
Alder and Hancock Monogr.
part T 1855 p. 45 XVIII established and rather well characterized two groups of Polycera  according to these authors Gray soon after Guide I 1857 p. 213 denominated these groups Polycera typical and Palio which perhaps might be conserved as subgenera.
L POLYCERA stricte.
Marge limbi frontalis digitatus.
Folia branchialia simpliciter pinnata  appendices dorsales branchiales singula
majores.
Lamellae mandibulares processu superiori aliBformi.
1.
F. quadrilineata O. F. Miiller.
M. Atlanticum  Mediterraneum.
2.
P. horrida Hesse.
Joum.
de Conchyliol.3 S. XIII 4 1873 p. 345.
M. Atlanticum. '
Ray Lankester Contrib.
to the Developm.
hist of Moll. Philos.
Trans. MDCCCLXXV p. 29 PI.
10 f. 19.
Meyer and Moebius have moreover given a figure of the shell of the embryo of their Pol.
ocellata 1. c fig.
10 j.
3.
P. plebeia Loven.
Index Moll. 1846 p. 6. M. Atlanticum.
4.
P. doriformis Quatref..
Phanerobrancbe doriforme.
MoquinTandon pseud.
A. Fredol Le monde de la mer. 1864 PI.
XII fig.
1.
M. Mediterraneum.
5.
P. eanteriata Quatref.
Phanerobrancbe a chevrons.
MoquinTandon do 1. c pi.
XII f. 2.
M. Mediterraneum.
II.
PALIO Gray.
Marge limbi frontalis tuberculatus.
Folia branchialia bivel tripinnata  appendices dorsales branchiales niinores complures.
Lamellae mandibulares simplices sine processu superiori.
6.
P. Lessonii d'Orb..
Pol.
ocellata A. et H. M. Atlanticum.
7.
P. pudica Loven.
Ind.
Moll. 1846 p. 6.
M. Atlanticum.
8.
P. pallida.
Bgh.. n. sp.
M. Pacificum.
9.
P. diibia Sars.
Bidr til Soedyrenes.
Naturh. 1829 p. 13.
Tab.
3 fig.
5 6.
Loven Ind.
Moll. 1846 p. 6.
M. Atlanticum sept. 10.
P. 
Cookii Angas.
Journ.
de Conchyl. 3 S. IV 1 1864 p. 58  PI.
V f .
6.
M. Pacificum.
11.
P. 
Capensis Quoy et Gaim.
Voy.
de I'Uranie.
Zool. 1824 p. 417  PI.
66 f. 4.
M. Capense.2 P. pallida Bgh. n. sp.
Plate XV fig.
14  Plate XVI fig.
19.
Color flavescens.
Branchia sexfoliata.
Lamellie mandibulares fere ut in FoL Lessonii sed magis elongatae.
Armatura lingualis fere ut in Pol.
Lessonii denies externi 5.
JIab.
Oc.
Pacificum septentr.
Of this form Dall dredged a single individual in June 18t3 at Kyska Harbor Aleutians at the depth of ten fathoms on rocky bottom.
According to Dall the color of the living animal was  yellowishwhite.
The length of the animal preserved in spirits was 7.0 mm. with a height of 4.0 and a breadth of 3.0 mm.
 the height of the branchial leaves about 1.0 mm. also that of the rhinophoria  the breadth of the 1 Viridifusca sulpliureo maculata papillis frontis 10 brancliiali utrinque una postica majore  11 mm.
Bohus Loven.
This as well as the other new Polycera of Loven has not since been seen Cf.
G. O. Sars Moll.
reg.
arct.
Norv. 1878 p. 313.
2 Of the three not too naturally represented Polycerse  of A. Fredol MoquinTandon the one 1. c. PI.
XII fig.
6 seems to be the Pel.
Lessonii the other two fig.
3 4 belong undoubtedly to the genus Thecacera.
foot 2.0 mm.
The color of the animal whitish that of the rhinophoria and the branchial leaves more yellow  the margin of the foot white.
'The form as usual.
The head rounded with a prominence on the upper lateral part  the mouth a vertical slit.
The margin of the rhinophorgrooves plain.
The stalk of the rhinophoria nearly as high as the club cylindrical  the club rather flattened with about fifteen leaves before the rhinophoria a low transverse frontal veil with scarcely more than two prominences  the veil continued backwards as a rather indistinct prominent line on each side of the smooth rounded back  the pericardial region a little prominent  behind the middle of the length of the back the gill with six tripinnate leaves in a slight curve  behind them the quite low anal nipple and towards the right side the renal pore  behind the gill a little flattened space with a slight crest on each side with three papilliB.
The sides of the body rather high.
In the region of the anterior angles of the foot the genital papilla with the everted penis without its recurved point 0.75 mm.
high and below it a folded lamella the duct of the mucous gland.
The foot rather narrow of nearly the same breadth  the rounded anterior angles somewhat prominent  a fine furrow in the anterior margin.
The intestines indistinctly appearing through the walls of the body.
The peritoneum colorless nearly without spicula.
The central nervous system fig.
1 very depressed the cerebral ganglia of roundedtriangular form a little larger than the more rounded visceral fig.
la the pedal ones more pyriforra a little larger than the last  the proximal olfactory ganglia bulbifonn not quite as large as the buccal ones which were fig.
lb of rounded form connected by a not very short commissure  the gastrooesophageal ganglia of about oneeighth of the size of the former rounded. The three inferior  subcerebral visceral and pedal commissures or at least the visceral one free.
The eyes fig.
1 shortstalked with black pigment and pale yellowish lens.
The otocysts fig.
1  in their usual place very shortstalked with about eighty otokonia of the ordinary kind.
In the stalk of the rhinophoria some scattered yellowish thick spicula of the same kind as in the skin of the back  none on the contrary in the leaves of the club.
In the skin some scattered yellowish thick straight or curved spicula mostly of about 0.150.3 mm.
in length and of the usual form.
In the interstitial tissue very few larger spicula.
 In the other species of Polycera I have examined I never saw gastroCBSophageal ganglia nor any in Ewplocamui or iu Plocamopherus .
The oral tube whitish of about 1.0 mm.
length wide.
The bulbus pharyngeus clear brownishyellow somewhat pyriform with oblique flattened posterior end in length about 1.6 by a height of nearly 1.3 and a breadth of 1.5 mm.
 the sheath of the radula a little prominent downwards and to the left from the hindermost part of the under side of the bulbus.
The lipdisk clothed with a brownishyellow cuticula that is continued into the two mandibular plates behind the lipdisk at the entrance of the oral cavity the form of the mandible could not be determined with certainty  a yellowish cuticula clothes the rest of the cavity.
The tongue with ten rows of plates further backwards six developed and two younger rows  the total number eighteen. The rhachis fig.
2 not very narrow.
The plates yellow.
The length of the first plate about 0.11 of the second 0.20 of the inmost of the external plates 0.14 of the following 0.12 0.10 08 and 0.06 mm.
all from the hinder part of the sheath.
The first lateral plate fig.
'laa 5 6 formed somewhat as in the P. Lessouii the hook still smaller  the second of the same form but larger fig.
2i 3 the hooks much larger especially the anterior which is broader and excavated fig.
T.
More outwards five external plates fig.
2cc all with a crest which is larger in the two innermost  adjoining the outermost of these plates several longitudinal folds of the lingual cuticula which sometimes simulate one to two plates more fig.
2.
The salivary glands whitish elongate.
The oesophagus rather wide the stomach inclosed in the liver.
The intestine appearing at the middle of the length of the liver a little to the left at the bottom of a deep and large cavity in the upper side of the liver  the pyloric part ' According to Alder and Hancock Monog.
Part VII 1855 PI 41 supplement fig.
20 21 the number of rows was fifteen in the Polycera qnadrilineata sixteen in tlie P. ocellata.
thirteen in the P. Lessonii  Alder and Hancock saw 1. c. four external plates in the Pol.
quadrilineata five in P. ocellata and six in P. Lessonii.
Meyer and Moebius saw five to seven external plates in their Polycera ocellata whilst the number of rows 1. c. PI.
50 is noted as thirteen to fifteen  in the P. quadrilineata they found four to five external plates and twelve to thiiteen rows.
In four specimens of Pol.
quadrilineata I saw six to eight rows on the tongue more backwards six to seven developed and one not quite developed row  the total number of rows was fourteen to fifteen.
In all specimens there were but four external plates.
In four specimens of Pol.
Lessonii I saw nine to ten rows on the tongue more backwards eight to seven or five developed and a single not developed row the total number of rows was sixteen to eighteen.
In all the specimens there were eight external plates.
of the intestine rather wide its curve reaching to the bulbus pharyngeus.
The liver about 5.0 mm.
long by a breadth of 3.5 and a height of 3.25 mm.
 the form conical the posterior end rounded the anterior much broader flattened and adjoining another flattening on the inferior part of the right side of the organ  the color was yellowish.
The sanguineous gland of quadrangular form of a diameter of about 1.5 mm. whitish.
The hermaphroditic gland with its yellowishwhite lobes covering nearly the whole surface of the liver  in the lobes large oJgene cells.
The anterior genital mass of the length of about 4.0 mm.
by a height of 3.0 and a breadth of 1.5 mm.
The ampulla of the hermaphroditic dact resting on the inferior margin of the genital mass whitish straight of the length of 3.0 mm by a diameter of about 0.5 mm.
At the anterior end of the ampulla a flattened body prostate that freely projects before the anterior margin of the rest of the genital mass  it was of about the same length as the ampulla but nearly twice as broad  the cavity of the organ rather large and the walls rather thin.
The prostate slopes gradually into the thin but strong spermatoduct which is about 6.0 mm.
long and terminates in the penis which was short conical fig.
8 9 about 0.75 mm.
long and terminated in a somewhat flexible yellowish glans fig.
8 9 14 of the length of about 0.37 mm.
by a diameter at the base of about 0.09 and at the point of 0.037 mm.
 through the largest part of its length it was covered with in all about twelve series of small chitinized crests which did not surpass the height of about 0.0025 mm.
fig.
14 i the armature only continued through a short part of the interior of the spermatoduct.
The spermatotheca spherical  the spermatocysta pyriform filled with sperma.
The cordate mucous gland whitish and yellowishwhite fig.
8b.
This species approaches to the Pol.
Lessonn but seems even different in color from that and the other Atlantic forms and also differs in the slight development of the frontal veil and of the lateral crests of the back as well as in the number of the external plates of tongue and' in the nature of the armature of the penis.
 The armature of the penis of Polyc.
quadrilineata hitherto the only species in which an armature has been described as figured by Friele and Hansen 1. c. Tab.
II fig.
3 is very different from that of the Pacific species and that difference has been confirmed by my examination of typical specimens.
TEIOPHA Bergh n. gen. Forma corporis fere ut in Triopis sicut quoque margo frontalis  margo dorsalis appendicibus nonnullis nodosis vel breve ramosis.
Tentacula eompressopoculiformes auriformia  rhinophoria retractilia clavo perfoliato.
Branchia quinqnefoliata foliis tripinnatis.
Os lamellis dnabus fortioribus e baculis rainutis eompositis armatum.
Lingua rbachide dentibus spuriis 4 pleuris dentibus lateralibus 34 corpore processu alaiformi et hamo applanato instractis et serie dentium externorum 1011 armatis.
Prostata 
This interesting form that forms a link between Polycera and Triopa on one side and the Euplocami on the other approaches more nearly to the latter than to the former.
In the exterior the TriophE resemble the Trio'pce but still differ in some points sufflcienth'.
The appendices of the back are more composite  the tentacles seem different from those of the Triope which have them folded lengthwise and obtuse at the end see for comparison PL XV fig.
12 they are compressed cupshaped or auriculate.
The gill contains five leaves.
Whilst the Triojoce want an armature of the true mouth  the Triojphce are provided with two strong plates composed of densely set staffs.
Whilst the rhachis of the tongue in the TriopcB is naked the Trio2hce show four false plates bosses of Dall simple thickenings of the base membrane of the radula here  instead of the two peculiarly formed lateral plates on the pleural in the Triopa the Triophm have three or four lateral plates with a winglike process of the bod and a depressed hook  with on the outside of these a series of ten to eleven uncinal plates nearly as in the Triopce.
After all the Triophce are closely allied to the Colgce and essentiall differ from these  Having at first and rather superficially examined the exterior I first regarded the animal as a Triopa and called it so s. part I p. 138 73 and the Plates XIV XV.
 See for comparison PI.
XIII fig.
19.
 See for comparison PI.
XIV fig.
31 22.
 The diagnosis of the Colgce would be  Forma corporis fere ut in Triopis.
Vaginae rhinophoriales calyciformes obliquse  rhinophoria retractilia clavo perfoliato.
Tentacula auriformia.
only in the armature of the tongue which in the Oolgce exhibits only a single series of false rhachidian plates and on each side two lateral plates in form approaching those of Polyceia.
The nature of the prostate is unknown  the armature of the penis not differing much from that ordinary in the large group of the PohjceratidcB.
Although somewhat approaching to the Euplocami in the form of the appendices of the back in the armature of the true mouth and of tlie pleura of the tongue the Triophce still cntirel differ in the form of the tentacles in the number of the branchial leaves and very likely in the nature of the prostate.
The TriophE have hitherto been only found in the Pacific Ocean.
1.
Tr.
modesta Bgh.
n. sp.
Oc.
Pacificum.
2.
Tr.
Carpenteri Stearns.
Proc.
of the Cal.
Acad of Sci. April 7 1873 p. 2 fig.
2.
Oc .
Pacificum California.
Tr.
modesta Bgh.
n. sp.
PI.
XIV.
fig.
1720 PI.
XV fig.
110. f Triopa Carpenteri Stearns.
L c. p. 2 fig.
2 Color e flavido albescens.
Appendices dorsales paucpe  folia branchialia 5.
Hah.
Oc.
Pacif.
septentr.
Of this form Dall has obtained a single individual at Yukon Harbor Shumagins in August 1874 at a depth of six to twenty fathoms on a bottom of sand and stones.
The color of the living animal was according to Dall  yellowishwhite.
The animal preserved in spirits was of whitish color  the dorsal appendices the gill and the rhinophoria more yellowish.
The length of the animal 16.0 mm. b a height of 7.0 and a Dorsum papilligerum prsesertim margo frontalis et dorsalis.
Branchia pauci 45 I foliata Mandibulse triangulares fortes.
Radula fere ut in Polyceratis dentibus lateralibus 3 et externis 7 sed prseterea dentibus medianis spuriis instinicta.
Meiely one species of the genus is yet known one of the first described Nudibranchiata the Doris lacera of Abildgaard Zool.
Dan. IV 1806 p. 23 Tab.
CXXXVIII fig.
3 4 which has been found too on the coast of America Cf.
Verrill notice of recent addit.
to the Mar.
Fauna of North Am. XXXVIII.
Amer.
Jour of Sc.
and Arts XVI 1878 p. 211.
breadth of 5.5 mm.
 the height of the branchial leaves 1.25 of the rhinophoria 2.0 mm.
 the breadth of the foot 3.5 mm.
The form as usual.
The head flattened in front semilunar the tentacles compressedcupshaped rather short about 1.0 mm.
long truncated at the end longitudinally folded and open at the outer side.
The frontal margin not projecting much with many smaller and larger short digitations and crenulatious  in front in the median line were two small conical papillse before the region of the rhinophoria.
The margin of the rhinophorholes somcAvhat projecting smooth  the deeply retracted rhinophoria with rather short stalk  the club with thirtyfive to forty rather broad and thin leaves.
The back rounded over from side to side without certain limits letween it and the sides of the body.
At the lateral parts of the back on each side five appendices  the first standing a little behind the end of the frontal margin the next about in the middle of the space between the first and third  this last a little before the region of the gill  farther backwards were also two similar ones.
The appendices were clubshaped with simple or composite nodosities spread upon their bodies and especially at their bases  the third was the largest reaching the height of about 2.5 mm.
 all the others a little smaller and all of about the same size.
Much smaller conical or clubformed simple pfipilloB were scantily and irregularly scattered on the back.
The gill consisting of five strong tripinnate quite separate leaves a single anterior and two lateral pairs.
The anal nipjDle nearly in the centre of the posteriorly open branchial circle a blunted nearly cylindrical prominence about 0.5 mm.
in height  at its base on the right side and a little forwards was the very distinct renal pore.
The sides of the body rather high and smooth  the genital bpening a short longitudinal slit lying rather forwards with two openings at its bottom.
The foot not very narrow of nearly the same breadth throughout its whole length  the anterior border emarginated in the middle with a fine line.
The intestines did not shine through the integuments.
The peritoneum was colorless without spieula.
 The central nervous system PI.
XV fig.
1 flattened  the cerebrovisceral ganglia fig.
la reniforra a little narrower at the foreend  the pedal ones fig.
Ibb rounded scarcely larger than the visceral  the large commissure fig.
1 as usual  small optic ganglia fig.
1.
The proximal olfactoiy ganglia fig.
Ic bulbiforra the n. olfactorii not very long the distal olfactory ganglia inverse pyriform.
The buccal ganglia fig.
Idd ovoid connected nearly without commissure  the gastrooesophageal ganglia small fig.
le with one large cell.
The eyes fig.
1 with coalblack pigment and yellow lens. The otocysts at the usual place on the under side of the cerebrovisceral ganglionic mass crowded with otokonia of the usual kind fig.
1.
In the leaves of the rhinophoria no spicula  in the axes and in the stalk on the contrary spicula of the same kind as in the skin or often larger.
The skin with few and small spicula and calcified rounded cells here and there lying in groups.
The marginal dorsal appendices covered all over with abovementioned nodosities  at their points perhaps a similar but empty bag as in the typical species Cf.
PI.
XIII fig.
16 17.
The anal tube large 3.0 mm.
long.
The bulbus pharyngeus strong of the length of 4.0 by a height of 3.0 and a breadth of 3.3 mm.
 the radulasheath projecting about 1.0 mm.
from the hinder part of the under side of the bulbus.
The lipdisk rather convex with vertical oral slit PI.
XY fig.
2 clothed with a pale 3'ellow cuticula that behind the oral slit on each side is continued in a triangular brownishyellow lipplate of a greatest breadth of 1.0 ram fig.
3 narrow at the inferior end broader at the supei'ior and composed of simple somewhat curved erect stag's fig.
4 5 about 0.18 mm.
in height fig.
4.
The tongue broad  in the amberyellow radula thirteen rows of plates further backwards in the sheath six developed and two younger rows  the total number thus twentyone.
The three foremost rows of the tongue very incomplete reduced to the outermost four to five six to seven nine to eleven uncinal plates.
The rhachis rather broad bearing two quadrangular thickenings of the cuticula PI.
XV fig.
6a of the length of about 0.180.2 mm. more thickened and jellowish in the anterior margin otlierwise colorless.
At the outer side of these median plates is a somewhat shorter and narrower plate fig.
66 of yellowish color  in the posterior rows PI.
XIV fig.
20 much broader.
The three succeeding plates brownishjellow hookshaped all nearly of the same form and of the same but outwardly slowly ' Alder and Hancock 1. c. part VI also saw small optic gauglia in the Triopa clavigera.
decreasing size PI.
XY fig.
Gcd  the fourth lateral plate on the tongue especially with a small hook fig.
7a that is more developed backwards and in the four youngest rows is developed quite PI.
XI Y fig.
IT as in the three plates mentioned.
On the lateral parts of the pleuroe ten to eleven external uncinal plates the four to five interior fig.
7 8a6 10  llbc with a more developed crest the rest fig.
lb narrower.
The salivary glands PI.
XY fig.
11a nearly as long as the duct fig.
116  both together about 5. 5 mm.
long descending along the whole back side of the bulbus pharyngeus  the gland whitish smooth.
The oesophagus rather long 6.5 mm.
 and Avide especially in the posterior part diameter 2.0 mm.
 entering into the inferior part of the liver  with rather strong and numerous folds  the contents as in the intestine spongiary masses and different Badiolarise of a diameter of 0.09 mm.
The intestine issuinaf from the liver a little before the middle of the upper side of this organ  the anteriorly proceeding part reaching the anterior margin of the liver and about 4.5 mm.
long by a diameter of 1.5 mm.
 the retrocessive part Y.O mm.
long by a diameter of 0.75 mm.
The liver divided b' a deep furrow from the right margin into two halves of nearly equal size 6.0 mm.
long by a breadth of 3.75 and a height of 3.4 mm.
 the posterior extremity rounded  the anterior half of the inferior side obliquely flattened  the color yellowishgray  the cavity of the interior rather small.
The pericardium of oval form large having the length of 3.5 mm.
The sanguineous gland whitish of the length of 2.5 mm.
by a breadth at the anterior end of 2.5 mm.
The renal syrinx shortpyriform  the tube of the organ strong.
The hermaphroditic gland not much developed paler than the liver with large oogene cells.
The anterior genital mass small about 1.5 mm.
long by a height of 0.75 and a breadth of about 0.5 mm.
The ampulla of the hermaphroditic duct yellowish rather long forming corkscrewlike windings.
The spermatoduct not long passing into the short penis.
This with its armature of very minute hooks the spermatotheca the spermatocysta and the vagina as far as could be determined as in the typical Triopa The gland whitish. '
See for comparison PI.
XY fig.
13.
This species ma' perhaps be the Triopa Garpenteri of Stearns  it has like that five branchial leaves and does not differ much in the number of the dorsal appendices six or the form of the frontal margin  but the dorsal nodosities of the last species are orangecolored and the rhinophoria the dorsal appendices and the branchial leaves tipped with orange.
Through the great kindness of Mr. Dall I have seen a drawing of the animal of Stearns from specimens secured after those he had described but they do not give more details than the original description  and Stearns seems not to possess the original specimens which very likely are lost forever.
On the other side it must be remembered that Sars Beretn.
om en i Sommeren 1849 forctagen zoolog.
Reise i Lofoten og Finmarken 1851 p. T4 found the young individuals of Triopa lacera M. entirely white also on the tentacles and gills merely the liver shines brownish through the skin.
EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES.
An asterisk denotes that the drawing is by camera lucida the fraction denotes the magnification.
The serial numbers of the plates Part I plates iviii Part II plates ixxvi are solelreferred to throughout the text.
As Part II appears in another volume of the Proceedings of the Academy the plates of Part II have been for that reason renumbered with a second set of numbers Plate ix being Plate i Plate x being Plate ii etc. in the new volume.
The serial numbers referred to in the text follow the new numbers for Part II in parentheses throughout this explanation.
Plate I IX.
Jorunna Johnstoni A. and H. 1. a stalk of the 6 gangl.
genitale c gangl.
genit.
secundarium .
2.
Granules of the back stiffened by spicula f.
3.
Part of the middle of the radula with the two innermost lateral plates  a rhachis f .
i.
The hook of a plate from the back s. 5.
Outer part of two series of plates with 8 plates f aa outermost.
6.
Outer part of another series with 3 plates .
7. a6 vagina c gland hastatoria d opening of the bag of the spur e spermatoduct   penis '.
89.
Spermatotheca  c its chief duct d gland hastatoria  h. spermatocysta  e duct to the mucous gland .
10. a Duct of the gland hastatoria b the bag of the spur c opening of the bag .
11. a spermatoduct  opening of the bag at the bottom of the penis  in the interior a dart 
 4Adalaria p7'0xima A. and H..
12.
Tubercles of the back.
13.
A part of the rhachis from above a median plates 6 large lateral plates .
14.
Part of the radula obliquely from the side  the hooks of the large lateral plates of both sides f.
15.
Two series of 9 external plates  a the innermost  b the outermost f.
Adalaria albopapillosa Dall.
16.
Part of the surface of a tubercle of the back .
Adalaria pacijica Bergh.
17. a median plate  6 large lateral plates from the side . 
Lamellidoris muricata 0.
Fr.
Miiller.
1 8.
The vesica fellea  a its duct.
Plate II X.
Adalaria pacifica Bergh.
1.
Median pseudoplate or boss from the upper side .
2.
2.
Part of the radula with series of 57 lateral plates  aa 12 complete rows of 15 external plates and 12 incomplete rows  66 innermost plates of the row  ce outermost f.
3.
Outer part of a row with 9 erect plates  a innermost .
Adalaria virescens Bergh.
4. a esophagus with its dilatation  b salivary gland  e its duct.
5.
Ganglion penis j.
Adalai'ia Loveni A. and H..
6.
Median part of the radula from above with aa large lateral plates  66 innermost part of two rows of external plates with 15 plates .
1.
Large lateral plate from the side .
8.
Piece of the left part of the radula f a two median pseudoplates or bosses  6 large lateral plates  c two incomplete rows with 67 plates.
Adalaria albopapillosa Dall.
9. a 2 median pseudoplates  66 23 large lateral plates of both sides K 10. a 3 median pseudoplates 66 24 large lateral plates of both sides  c innermost part of three right rows of external plates with 34 plates  Z left row of 7 external plates K 11.
Four outermost plates of a row  a outermost f.
Acanthodoris pilosa 0.
Fr.
Mtiller.
12.
End of the everted penis  a opening f.
13.
Epithelium of the vagina f.
 Acanthodoris pilosa var.
albescens Pacijica.
14. a anterior margin of the foot  6 edge of the tentacle.
15.
Ganglion genitale from the penis if.
Plate III XI.
Acanthodoris pilosa Miiller.
1.
Three external plates a outermost f.
Acanthodoris pilosa var.
albescens.
2.
The genital opening with its everted margin  a the two foremost apertures.
Lamellidoris hilamellata L. var.
Pacifica.
3.
Part of tlie branchial area with aa some branchial leaves  66 some of the larger surrounding tubercles.
In the centre the anal nipple the renal pore and interbranchial tubercles.
4.
The Slicking crop from the edge.
5.
The half of the same from the inside  a stalk.
6. a spermafotheca  6 spermatocysta  c duct of the last  d duct to the mucous gland  e vagina.
7. a two median pseudoplates  6 a latei'al plate  cc three external plates f.
8.
External plate from the side f.
9.
Two of the foremost lateral plates with blunted end .
Lamellidoris muricata Miiller.
10. a Median pseudoplate shining through the left of the lateral plates 66  c three external plates f .
11. aa Basal edge of three lateral plates  6 external plates 4.
12. a Glans penis  66 praeputium  e spermatoduct Jf.
Lamellidoris varians Bergh.
13.
Lateral plate from the side f.
14.
Median pseudoplate from above f.
Adalaria Pacijica Bergh.
15.
Innermost part of two rows of external plates f a two innermost 6 the third failing in the anterior row c eighth.
Plate IV XII.
Acanthodoris pilosa 0.
F. Miiller var.
purpurea.
1.
Labial disk with a the lancetformed blades projecting in the lowest part of the mouth proper.
2.
The lancetformed blades a with the adjoining part 6 of the armature of the mouth J.
3. a.
The right lancetformed blade  6 the adjoining part of the armature .
4.
Elements of the armature .
5.
Lateral plate from the side f.
.
The hook of a pltite from the side.
 f.
7.
Salivary gland  a duct  6 posterior end.
8. a pa7's pylorica intestini  b vesica fellea c intestinum descendens.
9.
Part of the vas deferens with its stricture J.
Acanthodoris pilosa M. rar.
hrunnea albopapillosa.
10. ab Lancetformed blades from the under side i.
11. ff Part of left 6 of right lancetformed blade c adjoining part of the armature of the mouth f.
12. aa Upper part of three lateral plates  bb two series of external plates  from the sheath of the radula f .
Acanthodoris pilosa M. var.
albescens.
13.
Elements of the armature of the mouth f.
14.
Isolated element f.
1..
Upper part of a lateral plate from the outside .
1 6.
Upper part of a lateral plate from the inside f .
Plate V XIII.
Lamellidoris varians Bergh.
1.
The central nervous system obliquely from the under side.
 5j5 .
d ganglia cerebrovisceralia bb ganglia pedalia c gangl.
penis and gangl.
genitale d ganglia buccalia ee ganglia gastrocesophagalia.
The eyes and the otocysts visible.
Acanthodoris pilosa M. var.
albescens.
2.
The bulbus pharngeus from the side  a cuticula and the lancetformed blades 66 mm.
retractores bulbi  c the suckingcrop  c salivary gland above this the right buccal and gastrooesophageal ganglion  e the sheath of the radula  the crop of the oesophagus  g continuation of the oesophagus.
3.
Lateral plates from the outside fi.
4.
Partof the armature of the spermatod net with its hooks  .
9 Acanthodoris pilosa M..
5. a spermatotheca  b spermatocysta  c duct to the mucous gland  dd duct to the vagina Acanthodoris csei'ulescens Bergh.
6.
Part of the armature of the mouth f.
7.
External plates from the side  f a innermost.
Chromodoris Dalli Bergh.
8.
The upper part of a branchial laf J.
9.
Part of the lipplate from above f.
10.
Elements of the lipplate K 11.
Part of the rhachis with three bosses or false plates p.
12. a false plate obliquely from the side f.
13.
The 13th plate from the side if.
14.
The 9th plate from the side .
Triopa clavigera 0.
Fr.
Miiller.
15.
Tubercles of the back.
16.
Vertical section of one of the appendices of the back  a bag at the point.
n. Elements of this last bag.
18.
Spicula of the skin.
 1 9.
Lowest part of the mouth with its cuticula  a the free margin f.
20.
Hindermost part of the bulbus  a tongue 6 sheath of the radula.
 Plate YI XIV.
Chromodoris Dalli Bergh.
1.
The buccal a and gastrooesophageal b ganglia s. 2.
Part of the median portion of the radula  a false plates on each side the 23 innermost lateral plates .
3.
Outer part of two series of plates with 11 plates a outermost b eighteenth f.
4. a spermatotheca  b spermatocysta c duct to the vagina d duct to the mucous gland .
Ghromodoris Calif orniensis Bergh.
5.
Hinder part of the body from the under side with 6 knot on the mantlemargin  a foot f .
6.
Upper median part of the true mouth .
7.
Part of 4 series of hooks of the lipplate from above f.. 810.
Elements of the same in different positions .
11.
Three innermost plates  a the first f.
12.
One of the largest plates .
13.
Hook of 3 larger plates obliquely from the foreside f.
14.
Four outermost plates a outermost f.
15.
Two irregular outermost  plates  a outermost f.
Acanthodoris cxjulescens Bergh. 16.
Series of plates a two lateral plates 6 the outermost of the external plates .
Triopha modesta Bergh.
17.
Part of one of the hindermost series of plates in the slieath with a 4 lateral plates and b c 2 external plates f.
18. o second and  third large lateral plates from above and from the back K 19. a fourth  h fifth plate as in fig.
18 from the tongue .
20.
Outer false plate of the rhachis from the sheath 3.
Triopa clavigeja M..
21. a second lateral plate 6 two external plates f.
22.
First lateral plate .
Plate YII XV.
Triopha modest a Bgh.
1.
Central nervous system 4 .
q ganglia cerebrovisceralia  bb pedal ganglia  e ganglia olfactoria proximalia  dd buccal ganglia  e gangl.
gastrowsophagal.
2.
The labial disk with the true mouth.
8.
Upper commissure of the lipplates Y.
4.
Elements of the lipplate K .'.
Upper ends of two elements f .
6.
Median part of a series of the teeth  a false median plates of the rhachis 66 external plate of the same ce first lateral plate  c third lateral plate K 1.
Continuation of the former a fourth plate 6 outermost plate .
8.
Four inner uncinal plates  a the second  b the fifth .
0.
First lateral plate f.
1 0.
Seventh and eighth external plates .
11.
Salivary gland a gland  b duct YTriopa clamgera M..
12.
Tentacle.
1 3.
Part of the armature of the penis.
 f .
Polycera pallida Bergh.
14.
The glans penis .
Plate VIII XVI.
Polycera pallida Bergh.
1.
Central nervous system from the upper side Y aa visceral ganglia 6 ganglia buccalia and gastrooesojyhagalia.
'J.
Part of the radula with two rows  aa interior  66 exterior lateral plates  cc uncinal plates f 3.
Exterior lateral plate from the side .
4.
Under side of the two lateral plates aa and 6 as in fig 2.
 35 1  35 5.
First lateral plate from the side 4' H. The same from above 3..
7.
Hook of the second lateral plate .
8.
Genital papilla and everted penis with its glans  6 prominent fold of the duct of the mucous gland.
0.
Glans of the penis with the end of 6 the spermatoduct f   a point of the glans.
Archidoris Monfereyensis Cooper.
10.
Large lateral plate from the side f.
JI.
Outer part of two series of plates with 4 plates aa outermost y.
Aphelodoris Antillensis Bergh.
Cf.
Malakozoolog.
Blatter N S. i 1879 p. 107113.
12. a ganglia huccalia with 6 ganglia gastroossophagalia  c. secondary ganglion  200 1 3.
Median part of two series of plates  aa innermost  66 second plates .
14.
A large lateral plate f.
15.
Outermost double plates of two series .
16.
Outer part of two series with two plates  aa outermost 11 7.
The sixth plate from the outer margin of the radula f .

8.
Outer part of three series with 3 plates  a outermost .
Polycera Holbolli Moll..
1 9 The genital papillae from the front.
20 The same from the side.
21.
First lateral plate from above y.
January.
1880.
ERRATA FOR PART I.
On account of the inability of the author to read the proofs and from certain obscurities in the manuscript some errors crept into the first part of this paper and the arrangement of the paragraphs was somewhat confused by the printer.
The delicacy and beauty of the plates in their original state liaving been destroyed by the printer the present ones have been steelsurfaced to avoid if possible a similar misfortune.
The specific name Calif orniensis  Ghromodoris was substituted in the printed text for Calensis which appeared on the plate and ill the manuscript under the idea that the latter was intended merely as an abbreviation.
The following list of errata has been received from the author  it is believed that the present concluding part of the paper is much less in need of such corrections.
Page 128  72 line 15  for Triopa modesta B. read Triopha viodesta B. 
129  73 line 22  for mandibulse read .
Mandibulte. ''
130  74 line 2  for genus read penis.
' 132  76 line 30  a comma to be put before the parenthesis and the comma after the parenthesis to be cancelled.
Page 135  79 line 11  for dentibus medianis denticulati read dentibus medianis denticulatis. 
135  79 line 18  for caducous read not caducous.
' 135  79' line 19  a semicolon is needed before the foot.
' 136  8 line 5  the comma after laterales  to be cancelled. 
136  80 line 17  a comma is needed after  1 5  the comma after  rhinophoria  to be cancelled.
 138  82 line 5  for Plate I fig.
9 read PI I. fig.
912. 
140  84 line 39  for fig.
11 one to fourj read fpl.
I. f. 11  pi.
II f. 14. 
141  8i line 1  for The intestines are read The intestine is. 
141  85 line 3  for anal papillae read anal papilla. 
141  85 line 34  for 2 w. pi.
read w. 2 pi. 
141  85 line 35  for 2te Heft read 2tes Heft. 
141  85 line 41  for ab read ob. 
142  86 line 6  or denticalis rerti denticulis. 
144  88 line 16  for M. retractoris read M. retractor. 
145  89 line   for Z R. J. read 3 R. I. 
145  89 line 27  for Dentes medianse read D. mediani. 
145  89 line 27  for altamen read attamen. 
146  90 line 22  for mantle read muzzle. 
147  91 line 11  for anal read oral.
 150  94 line 4  for Animal read Color animalis. 
150  94 line 3  before Dendron.
Dalli B. insert 2.
' ' 152  96 line 27  for side the read side.
The. 
153  97 S line 17  for Dalzell read Dalyell. 
153  97.
line 27  for Tr.
glaucse read Tr.
glamae. '
' 154  98  line 15  for cucculata read cucuUata. 
154  98 line 19  for Duvancelia read Duvaucelia. 
155  90 line 8  for of the papillae read of the papilla. 
156 100 line 11  for is contracted read was contracted. 
156 100 line 16  
 The larger mucous gland read The larger opening of the mucous gland. 
156 100 line 19  for before which read  below which. 
156 100 line 38  for in the hinder part read between the binder parts. 
159 103 line 20  for The cardia were wide etc. read the cavity was etc. 
159 103 line 26  for but backward at the front and end read bent backward at the frontal end. 
160 104 line 1  for Fig.
65 a rend 15 a. 
161 105 line 33  for bulbus and read bulbus or. 
161 105  line 38  for Beitr.
read Bidr.
' 162 106 line 17  for dentates read dentatis. 
163 107 line 33  for leaves 80 read leaves 8. 
163 107 line 9  for Fig.
6 7 read Fig.
10 11.
 165 109 line 25  for Fig.
17 read Fig.
814.
Page 166 110 line 19  for Fig.
1 read Fig.
8.
167 111 line 4  for Fig.
2 read Fig.
9.
167 ill line 6  for Fig.
3 read Fig.
10.
167 111 line 15  for Fig.
4 read Fig.
11.
167 111 line 10  for Fig.
1 a read Fig.
2 a.
167 111 line 16  for Fig.
5 read Fig 12.
167 111 line 19  for Fig.
4 5 read Fig.
11 12.
167 111 line 23  for Fig.
6 7 8 read Fig.
13 14 3 b.
168 112 line 5  for Plate XII read PI.
XIV.
168 112 line 6  for punctus read punctis.
170 114 line 5  for Fig.
13 read Fig.
15.
170 114 line 24  for latiuni read latum.
170 114 line 26  for minutissimus read minutissimis.
170 114 line 33  for the gills read the gill.
171 115 line 34  for Branchiae read Branchia.
172 116 line 17  for Samso read Samso.
173 117 line 30  substitute a semicolon for the period.
173 117 line 31  substitute a period for the semicolon.
175 119 line 23  for 1.3 read 13.
175 119 line 23  for 7 7.0 read 77.8.
175 119 line 24  for the light read the right.
176 120 line 7  for individual read individuals.
176 120 line 21  for leg read bag.
177 121  line 1  for branchiae read branchia.
177 121 line 32  for of the right hand are read of the right hand one is.
180 124 line 10  for spermatocysts read spermatocyst.
180 124 line 33  substitute a semicolon for the period.
183 137 line 3  for c read a.
183 127 line 18  for F. read O. F.
Miill.
183 127 line 21  for inside read outside.
183 127 line 23  for the same read the same from the inside.
184 128 line 13  for d read a.
184 128 line 16  for b read a.
186 130 line 12  for of read f. 186 130 line 26  for 2. read 2 2.
186 130 line 33  for e read c. 187 131 line 37  for to the twelfth read to b the twelfth.
188 132 line 12  for cuticle read skin.
R. BERGH.
128 proceedings of the academy of 1880 February 3.
Mr. Meehan VicePresident in the chair.
Twenty one persons present.
February 10.
The President Dr. Ruschenberoer in the chair.
Twentysix persons present.
The death of Adolph E. Borie a member was announced.
Sartorius Muscle of the Gorilla.
 Mr. Howard A. Kelly described the sartorius muscle in the right leg of the Gorilla troglodytes young from the Ogode river West Africa partially dissected and described bDr. Chapman in the Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Soi. Phila. 1879.
The muscle is 10 inches long and  inch broad.
Tendinous for about  inch at its origin and its insertion.
It arises from the iliac bone at the beginning of the middle third of the distance from between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis.
Its insertion is on to the inner face of the tibia which is 5i inches long 3 inches below the knee joint.
Six inches from its origin the muscle is reinforced by a muscular slip  inch in breadth.
This slip arises at the lower part of the middle third of the femur between the origin of the quadriceps extensor and the insertion of the adductors it joins the sartorius muscle opposite the knee joint.
In consulting the literature on the myology of the Gorilla wo reference to any such slip has been found.
Among all the numerous anomalies recorded of this muscle in the human subject no corresonding variation has been found.
February IT.
The President Dr. Rusghenberger in the chair.
Thirtythree persons present.
A paper entitled  Description of a New Crustacean from the Upper Silurian of Georgia with remarks upon Calymene Clivtoni''' by Anthony W. Vogdes was presented for publication.
Germination in Acorns.
 Mr. Thomas Meehan referred to some intei'esting facts in the germination of Quercus virens as brought to his attention by W. St. J. Mazyck of Georgetown South Carolina.
It was generall' known that in this species the cotyledon did not divide into two lobes as usual in acorns but seemed to be of one solid mass without any trace of a division.
In germination however two petioles were developed as in other aconis but instead of these being veiy short indeed nearly sessile as in the ordinary white oak thej' were produced apparenth' in the much advanced specimens sent by Mr. Mazj'ck to 1 inches in length before the plumule and hypocotyledonary portions of the embrj'o commenced their growth.
In respect to the latter a small ovate striate tuber apparent'
as one might judge from the shrivelled specimens on hand nearly onefourth the size of the acorn was formed and from this tuber the radicle proceeded and afterwards the plumule on its upward growth.
Mr. Meehan said he had since examined sprouting acorns of Quercus alba Q. nibra Q. arenaria and Q. prinoidea noticing a very slight tendencv to a tuberous condition onl'in the last named.
But in regard to the lengthening of the petioles he was surprised to find a variation in each species.
In Quercus privoides the petioles were nearlyan inch in length.
He believed the discovery would be of great value to sj'stematic botanists in the determination of species in this very difficult genus and should examine and report after an examination of manv other species but thought proper to call the attention of the Academy to the matter in this early stage that due credit might be recorded to Mr. Maz'ck for his interesting discovery.
Mr. Edw Potts at the request of Mr. Meehan had made sections of both the acorn and the spindleshaped radicle with the result of finding the cell structure of the latter an almost exact counterpart of that in the nut L e. subspherical cells of uniform size gorged with starch grains.
So similar were they that it would be nearly impossible for an observer to say which he was examining but for the cortical tissue surrounding the root.
It seemed that the food supply of the young plant had been thns withdrawn from a position exposed to hot sun and drying winds to one protected by the earth and in the direct line of growth.
No line of specialized cells could be discovered in the sections of the nut indicating the possibilitj' of a separation as in other species into two cotyledons  so that to all intents and purposes it might be called monocotjledonous.
February 24.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twent3nine persons present.
A paper entitled  Carcinological Notes No.
3 by J. S. Kingsley was presented for publication.
The death of John Rice a member was announced.
R. S. Hiiidekoper M. D. David Townsend John B.
Wood Thos.
Miles Frances Emily White M. D. and John S. Capp were elected members.
The following were elected correspondents   Robert Caspary of Konigsberg Agostino Todaro of Palermo J. E. Bommer of Brussels Teodoro Caruel of Pisa H. T. Geylerof FrankfortontheMaine Robert Schomburg.
of Adelaide and A. Inostranzeff.
of St. Petersburgh.
March 2.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twentyeight persons present.
The death of Wm.
Maxwell Wood M. D. a correspondent was announced.
On a Filaria Reported to have come from a Man.
 Prof. Leidy exhibited a large threadworm which had been submitted to his examination by Dr. J. J. Woodward U. S. A.
It was recently presented to the Army Medical Museum at Washington by Dr. C. L. Garnett of Buffalo Putnam Co. West Virginia.
Accompanying the specimen is the copy of a letter from Dr. Garnett to Dr. Woodward from which the following is an abstract   During the winter of 18t6 a man a common laborer aged about fiftj presented himself to me for treatment having a gleety discharge from the urethra with a burning sensation during and after micturition.
Previously he had been treated for gonorrhoea and I prescribed accordingly.
The patient not improving applied to other practitioners.
In April 1878 he came to me with a round vividred worm twentysix inches in length the specimen you now possess which was alive and very active in its movements instantly coiling up like a watchspring on being touched.
Having no work on helminthology for reference the only description I found which appeared to answer to the worm was that of Strongylua gigas in Niemeyer vol.
II p. 41.
The patient is an illiterate man with no motive for deception.
He informed me that he discovered the worm protruding from his penis and drew it out without pain or difficulty.
He was in much agitation and alarm about the occurrence fearing as he said that there might be more behind that one.
For a few days previous to its passage his urine was of a milky hue and some time subsequently of a yellow cast and slightly tinged with blood and mingled with mucus.
The man is truthful and no doubt exists in my mind or in the minds of his neighbors as to the correctness of his statements.
I regret exceedingly that I did not appreciate the scientific interest of the subject and send you the specimen in a fresh state but the busy routine of a country practitioner's life leaves no time for the study of other than subjects of practical value in one's every day experience.
The worm preserved in alcohol is much coiled of a clay color and opaque or only feebly translucent but more so at the head end.
If it is really a human parasite it appears to differ from all those heretofore described and also seems different from other known parasites.
It certainly is neither Eusfrongylus gigo nor is it the Guineaworm Filaria medinensis though nearly related to this.
Its characters are as follows  Body long restiform nearly uniformly cylindrical smooth shining elastic tough without evident annulation other than transverse wrinkling with the anterior extremity evenly tapering in the continuous head the end of which is rounded and smooth or without appendages of any kind  the posterior extremity not tapering with the caudal end incurved bluntly rounded without apFig.
1.
Fig.
2. pendages and imperforate or without evident 1.
Cephalic extremity  2. anal or genital apcrturc.
Mouth a terminal Caudal extremity  the diaso..  iii  .
nai marking indicates the porc without lips papillte or ai'maturc 01 any retegume'l''Teram'.
md.
Tharyux Cylindrical and opening into ters.
a straight cylindrical intestine apparently ending in a blind pouch.
Generative organs unobserved.
Length of worm 26 inches greatest thickness TS mm.
Width of head just behind the rounded extremity 0'375 mm.
 opposite the commencement of the intestine 0625 mm.
 at the middle 15 mm.
 at the incurved caudal extremity 15 mm.
Length of oesophagus 1125.
The worm of exceedingly simple character is clearl' neither a Gordius nor a Meimis and though apparently more nearly allied to Filaria a more intimate knowledge of its structure may prove it to be different.
For the present it was proposed to distinguish it with the name of Filaria restiformis.
On Rochelia patens.
 Mr. J. II.
Redfield remarked at the meeting of the Botanical Section that Rochelia patens was founded by Nuttall upon a plant collected by Weth on Flat Head River in the Rocky Mountains and was described in the Journal of the Academy 1st series.
Vol.
YII p. 44 in 1834.
Dr. Gray in the Synoptical Flora of North America II p. 197 remarks concerning the plant that it may be an Eritrichium but has not been identified nor was it in the Academy's Herbarium.
Mr. R. stated that this specimen had been recently found among the Academy's specimens of Echinospermum and had been pronounced by Dr. Gray to be Echinospernnnn florihundum Lehm. a species widely diffused in Western North America.
The following report iipon the plants introduced through the medium of the Centennial Exhibition was read  EEPORT ON PLANTS INTEODUCED BY MEANS OF THE INTEENATIONAL EXHIBITION isre.
The committee appointed on the 10th of October IStG at the request of the United States Centennial Commission to examine and report upon the subject of the introduction of insects and plants through the medium of foreign exhibits respectfully reports that it has delayed reporting on the plants till now in the belief that some solitary plants might be ovei'looked which producing seed and increasing in following seasons might be then discovered by their greater numbers.
But only those named in the list have been found and only in isolated specimens showing no disposition whatever to spread and remain with us.
So far therefore as the object of the committee appointment is concerned it may be said in effect that no plant has been introduced to our knowledge by the agency of the exhibition.
It is but justice to say that the plants have been collected by our esteemed fellow member Mr. Isaac Burk whose familiarity with the botany of Fairmount Park rendered him particularly fitted to detect any new introduction.
Some of the few plants named are from the western portion of our country others from Europe and a few from Japan.
Lepidium sativum L. Killingia pumila  Mic.
Bunias Erucago L. Fimbrutylis miliacea Muhl.
Crepu tectorum L. Cyperus diandrus Torr.
Centaurea nigra L. Triticum viUosum Beand.
HypochcRris radicata L. Triticum clavatum Stedl.
Desmodium tomentosum D. C. Leucoea Langsdorffiana Steudl.
Cycloloma platyphylla Moq.
Respectfully submitted.
John L. LeConte Geo.
H. Horn Joseph Leidy J. Gibbons Hunt Thomas Meehan Committee.
The report upon the insects was printed in the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Scienees of Philadelphia for 1876 page 267.
1880.j natural sciences of philadelphia.
133 March 9.
The President Dr. Rusohenberoer in the chair.
Twentythree persons present.
Mammary Glarids of Bats.
 Dr. H. Allen exhibited specimens of bats dissected to show the position and peculiarities of the mammary glands.
These bodies have been described as postaxillary and two in number.
For Desmodus this account is correct.
For PhyUorhina Nycferis and the common red bnt of this country Atalapha  Lasiurvs novehoracensu it is incorrect.
In the first two the glands answering to the axilla are low down and have their nipples on a line with the middle of the clavicle.
In the common red bat the gland answering to the socalled postaxillary is outside and below the axilla but on a line with it.
It occupies indeed the lower third of the side of the chest and borders upon the inferior line of the chest.
In addition to this there is constantly present a pectoral gland situated as in Quadrumana and the human species.
These glands resemble one another in general appearance and size being circular in form without hair of a dull yellow color possessing a welldeveloped nipple and measuring 3 lines in diameter.
It is interesting to observe that the specimens of nonlactating bats show no external signs of mammse.
The mammary regions are covered with fur of the same character as seen elsewhere.
Neither in a female with embryos 2 lines in length is there any external development.
If such a specimen be dissected the locality of a rudiment of the gland can be detected by the position of a small circle of thin dark skin with a central white spot such structures representing the patch of modified skin and nipple ready to receive the future developing active gland.
No mammary structure in this stage is anywhere visible nor is there any subcutaneous fat.
Dissection of the body of the lactating female on the other hand shows the mamma to be as large as the external conformation and the pectoral and lateral thoiacic regions to be occupied by a large but sharply limited mass of fat which runs up into the axilla and encroaches upon the dorsal surface of the trunk.
The rest of the under surface of the animal is without fat.
It is likely that there exists in the bat the same provision noted in analogous structures of many lower animals  namely the presence of secondary sexual characters among which the milk gland may be placed which practically disappear in the periods between sexual activity.
134 proceedings of the academy of 1880.
March 16.
Mr. Vaux VicePresident in the chair.
Thirtyfive persons present.
A paper entitled  Carcinologieal Notes No.
IV by J. S. Kingsley.
The death of Dr.
Win.
M King U. S. N. a member was announced.
March 23.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
One hundred and fifteen persons piesent.
The following papers were presented for publication    On the Gestation and Generative Apparatus of the Elephant by H. C. Chapman M. D.  On a New Species of Hemitripterus from Alaska by W. N. TiOckington.
The death of Hector Tyndale a member was announced.
March 30.
Mr. Vaux VicePresident in the chair.
Thirt'eight persons present.
The death of Jacob Stauffer a correspondent was announced.
Paris Halderaan Geo.
B. Heckel and Emlen Physic M. D. were elected members.
The following were ordered to be printed   CAECINOLOGICAL NOTES No.
II. EEVISION OF THE GELASIMI.
BY J. S. KINGSLEY.
I have endeavored in this paper to straighten out the species of the  Fiddler Crabs basing my work on the large collections of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and of the Peabody Academy of Sciences at Salem Mass.
My material has been ample embracing more than half the known forms among which are types of Smith Guerin Eydoux Leconte and Sa with other specimens from Guerin's collection which were identified by comparison with the types of Milne Edwards.
I have reduced considerably the number of specific forms and in so doing I have been actuated not by any desire to overturn the work of others but merely to arrive at the true limits of the species.
A similar reduction in other genera must be made and will be made by any one who attempts to stud' the forms of the whole world and does not limit himself to those of a small portion of its surface.
Among the important features of this paper is the extension of the range of many forms which has been accomplished either by finding new localities among the specimens studied or by a union of two or more socalled species which bore different names in different portions of the world.
I have endeavored to give descriptions and figures of all known forms of Gelasimi and when possible I have taken them from the specimens themselves  when I had no specimens I have given a description compiled fromsome other carcinologist and have followed it by the initial of his name.
The same remark will apply to the figures.
Localities from which I have examined specimens are followed by an exclamation point 
 and the museum in which the forms are preserved is indicated by an abbreviation  these abbreviations are  Phila.
Acad. Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia Pa.  Peab.
Acad. Peabody Academy of Sciences Salem Mass.
 U C Union College Schenectad' N. Y. Genus GELASIMUS Latreille.
Cancer pars.
Linne Herbst Fabricius De Geer.
Ocypoda pars Bosc Histoire Naturelle des Crustaces ii p. 240 1828' Latreille ' I have never seen a copy of the first edition of this work published in the An X  of the first French Republic 18023 of accepted chronology and my references are either quoted from the second edition by Desraarest or at second hand from Milne Edwards or some other author.
u Histoire des Crustaces et de la Insects vi p. 27  An.
XI  18034.
Uca Leach Trans.
Linn.
Soc London xi p. 309 1815.
Gelasimus Latreille Nouvelle Dictionnaire d'Histoire Naturelle xii p. 517 1817  Henri MilneEdwards Histoire Naturelle des Crustaces ii p. 49 1837  Annales des Sciences Naturelles III serie xviii p. 144 1853  Dana Crustacea of the United States Exploring Expedition pp.
312 and 315 1852  Hess Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte xxxi Pt.
II p. 145 1865 Alphonse MilneEdward.s Nouvelle Archives du Museum d'Histoire Naturelle xi p. 271 1873  Oonoplax pars.
Lamarck Histoire Animaux sans Vertebres v. p. 353 1818.
The genus Oelasimus belongs to Cyclometopa Ocypodoidea of Dana family Macrophthalniidse Dana and subfamily Ocypodinae of the same author.
It is characterized by the rhomboidal carapax broader in front the elongate ocular pedicels the eyes proper being placed at the extremity and by the great inequality of the chelipeds in the male.
In my studies I have found the characters derived from the larger cheliped of the male to be the most constant vrhile the I'elative proportions of the carapax the front and the margins of the orbit are of but slight importance and very variable.
But two species ever referred to this genus b' authors are now referred to other genera  Gelasimus cordiformis forming the type of the genus Helcecius of Dana and Gelasimus telescopicus Owen which belongs to the genus Macrophthalmus.
The genus may be divided into two groups possibly of subgeneric value according as the front between the eyes is wide or narrow and the wide fronted section again according as the male abdomen is seven or five jointed.
 A.
Front very narroiv between the eyes.
1.
Gelasimus maracoani Latreille.
PI.
is f. 1.
Ocypoda maracoani Latreille Hist.
Crust et Ins. vi p. 46 1803.
Oelasimus maracoani luAtveiWe Did.
AWxst.
Nat. xii p. 519 1817 Desmarest.
Coneid.
pars p. 133 1835 Edw. Hist.
Nat.
Crust. ii p. 51 1837  Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xviii p. 144 pi.
Ill f. 1 1852  Dana U. S. Ex.
Ex Crust. p. 318 1853  White List.
Crust.
Brit Mus. p 85 1847.
Gonoplax maracoani Lamarck Hist.
An.
Sans Vert. v p. 354 1818.
Oelasimus armatus Smith Trans.
Conn.
Acad. ii p. 133 pi ii f 5 pi.
iii f. 4 1870  Report Peabody Acad.
Sci. iii p 91 1871.
Regions distinct each branchial ornamented with a longitudinal ridge from which branch off smaller ones.
Ischium of larger cheliped with a prominent tooth below  meros with a tooth on posterior margin at the artieukition with the carpus otherwise smooth and rounded its upper and lower margins with spiniform teeth which are more prominent above  carpus elongate with iniistinct tubercles.
Hand very large compressed externally tuberculate on the basal portion above with several teeth like those of meros inferior margin proximaLy tuberculate outer surface of thumb with large shallow punctte the lower portion being marginate.
Occludent margin with three rows of tubercles the middle one forming a prominence at the basal twofifths the other rows undulating extremity contorted acute  inner surface nearly smooth with a tubercular ridge running from the articulation of dactylus to the middle of lower margin of the palm  dactylus lamellate externally granulate lower margin nearly straight upper margin arcuate basally tuberculate tip acute and nearly at right angles with occludent margin inner surface nearly smooth somewhat concave with a longitudinal tuberculate ridge near the occludent margin.
Bahia Brazil
Dr. Wilson.
Natal
f Dr. Wilson labeled G. natalensis.
South America 
Phila.
Acad.
West Coast of Nicaragua 
McNiel Smith's types in Peab.
Acad..
Cayenne Latr.
Edw.
 Brazil Latr.
White West Indies White' Eio Janeiro Dana.
The only differences between Smith's types and specimens from other localities are the more crowded spines on the upper border of the meros and the more sparse tuberculation of tiie basal portion of the hand characters surely not of specific importance.
2.
Gelasimus heterccheles Kingsley.
PI.
ix f. 2.
Seba Thesaurus iii pi.
xviii f. 8 1758  Cancer vocans major Herbst Naturgesch.
Krabben und Krebse pi.
i f. 1 after Seba 1790.
Ocypoda heterocheles Bosc Edit.
I torn ii p. 197 1802 teste Auct.
 Edit.
II i p. 250 1828  Cancer iika Shaw Naturalist's Miscellany.
XIV pi.
588 after Seba.i Gelasimus maracouni pars Desmarest 1. c p. 123  1825.
Gelasimus platydactylus Edw. Hist.
Nat.
des Crust. ii p. 51 1837  Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xviii p. ' I have been unable to ascertain the date of this volujne.
The first volume of the series bears the date 1790 the twentyfourth and last 1813 but no others are dated  it would however seem probable that the fourteenth volume appeared in 1803 while the ''.n X in which Bosc's first edition appeared embraced parts of 1802 and 1803.
10 144 pi.
iii f. 2 1852  Savissure Revue et Magazin de Zoologie II V p. 362 1853  Smith Trans.
Coun.
Acad. ii p. 122 1870.
Gelasimus princeps Smith 1. c p. 120 pi.
ii f. 10 pi.
iii f. 33e '1870  Report Peab.
Acad. iii p. 91 1871  Lockington Proc.
California Acad. vii p. 145 1877.
Carapax transversely iiearl flat  meros of larger cheliped rounded posteriori its lower margin crenulate its upper produced into a broad arcuate laminiform dentate crest  carpus elongate externally tuberculate inner margin crenulate the inner surface with one or two tubercles.
Hand large compressed palmar portion swollen upper and lower margins tuberculate external surface of palm tuberculate of thumb smooth except a crenulated ridge below.
The inner surface smooth with a tuberculate ridge winning from the lower margin at the base of the thumb obliquely upward and backward and meeting a similar ridge from the base of the dactjdus  occludent margins of thumb with three rows of tubercles the middle the most prominent and somewhat angulated beyond the middle.
Dactylus with the upper margin and outer basal portion tuberculate the occludent margin rather prominent in the middle.
Mexico
GuerinMeneville.
Jamaica
Dr. Wilson Phila.
Acad.
Cayenne Edw.
W. Coast Nicaragua 
McNiel Smith's types Peab Acad..
Lower California Lockington.
Mazatla.n Saussure Seba's figure represents the carapax as granulate and the front rather broad in these respects he has been followed by Herbst and Shaw otherwise his figure answers well.
Bosc says that the species is black 
Smith's types agree well with the Jamaica specimens which I have seen except that the meral crest in the Nicaraguan specimens is more distinctl' den.tate.
3.
Gelasimus bellator White.
PI.
ix f. i.
Petiver Opera i PI.
78 f. 5 1767  Gelasimus bellator White Catalogue British Musenm Crustacea p. 36 1847  sine descr. 
Voyage of H. M. S. Samarang Crustacea p. 49 1848  Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xviii p. 146 1852.
Carapax arcuate front but little enlarged below tlie eyes.
Meros of larger cheliped posteriorly with an oblique rounded ridge its ijiipper and lower margins crenulate the former even denticulate  carpus externally polished above granulate inner margin denticulate outside of palm and basal portion of dactylus granulate. inside of palm granulate but without tubercular ridges except a short curved one near the occludent margin  thumb externally margined below its occludent margin forming a prominence at the distal third  dactylus with the margins nearly parallel the occludent one with scattered larger tubercles tip acute.
Australia 
Dr. T. B. Wilson Phila.
Acad.
Luzon Petiver Philippines White.
4.
Gelasimus styliferus Edw.
PI.
ix f. 4.
Gelasimus platydactylus Edw. 111.
Edit.
Regne Animal Crustaces pi.
xviii f  1 a without date .
Gelasimus styliferus Edw. Am.
Sci.
Nat.
Ill xviii p. 145 pi.
iii f. 3 1852  Smith Trans.
Conn.
Acad. ii p. 118 1870.
A species very near G. platydaciilus but liaving the marginal crest of the arm less developed and the eye stalks terminated by a small stylet as in the Ocypodaa Edw..
Is possibly but a variety of heterochelos.
Ouayaquil Equador Edw..
5.
Gelasimus heterophthalmus Smith.
PI.
is f. 5.
Oelasimus heterophthalmus Smith Trans.
Conn. Acad ii p. 116 pi.
11 f. 6 pi.
iii f. 1 1870  Rep. Peab.
Acad.
Sci.
iii p. 91 1871.
Meros of larger cheliped with posterior margin rounded the inferior crenulate superior with a broad ci'cst carpus with the upper outer surface granulate elsewhere smooth.
Hand inflated basal portion of palm externall' granulate thumb punctate with an external elevated ridge.
Inner surface of palm smooth with two rows of tubercles much as in G. heterocheles.
Fingers compressed the thumb with a deep emargination at the base and a prominent tubercle just beyond occludent margin of finger nearly straight.
Oulf of Fonseca West Coast of Nicaragua .'
McNiel Smith's types in Peab.
Acad..
This species is closely allied to G. heterocheles.
When I examined the specimens the prolongations of the ocular peduncles described by Prof Smith were broken off.
6.
Gelasimus heteropleurus Smith.
PI.
is f. 6.
Gelasimus heteropleiirus Smith Trans.
Conn.
Acad. ii p. 118 pi ii f. 7 pi.
iii f. 2 1870  Rep. Peab.
Acad. iii p. 71 1871.
Carapax but slightly convex one side produced laterally.
One eye with a stylet about as long as the cornea similar to those found in certain Ocypodse.
Meros of larger cheliped with the margins denticulate the upper one produced distally into a crest carpus granulate above.
Hand externally granulate on the basal portion the upper and lower margins denticulate  the inner surface of the palm has an oblique line of tubercles running obliquely upward and backward from the lower margin at the base of the thumb to near the articulation with the carpus.
Fingers short compressed the thumb with the lower margin regularly arcuate  the upper margin of dactylus nearly straight as are the occludent margins of each.
Gulf of Fonseca 
McNiel Peab.
Acad. Smith's types.
7.
Gelasimus cultrimanus White.
PI.
ix f. 7.
Gekmmus vocans Edw. Annales des Sci.
Xat. Ill xviii p. 145 PI.
Ill f. 4 1852  Stimpson Proc.
Phila.
Acad. 1858 p. 99 1858  Heller Reise der Novara Crustacea p. 37 1865  Hilgendorf iu van der Decken's Reise p. 83 1867  Alplionse MilneEdwards Nouv.
Arch du Mus.
d'Hist.
Nat. ix p. 273 1873.
Gelasimus cultrimanus White Catalogue Brit.
Mus.
Crust. p. 35 sine descr.
1847  Voyage of the Samarang Crust. p. 49 1848.
Gelasimus nitidus Dana U. S. Expl.
Exped.
Crust p. 316 PI.
X f. 5 1852.
Carapax smooth arcuate.
Meros of larger cheliped witli an oblique ridge on the upier posterior surface which gradually disappears before the articulation with the carpus  the inner margin somewhat cristate distally with a prominent tooth and sometimes traces of a second  carpus externally granulate a portion near the articulation with the meros smooth inner surface with a strong spiniform tubercle.
Palmar portion of hand swollen and externally granulate gi'anules larger below.
On the inner surface there is an oblique tubercvxlar crest near the lower margin but not extending to it and a second near the occludent margin.
Thumb with an impressed line on the outer surfoce the lower margin granulous the occludent margin broadly excavate  this excavation is sometimes regularl' curved but generally shows traces of a division into two sinuses  the distal fourth bends abruptly downward to meet the inferior margin.
Finger granulate above near the base occludent margin nearly straight Philippines
Dr. T. B. Wilson Phila.
Acad.
 Moreton Bay Australia
E Wilson Phila.
Acad.
 Coast of Malabar 
Guerin's Collection Phila.
Acad..
This specimen labelled  G. crassimanus Coll.
Mus.
has the excavation of the thumb of the larger cheliped plainly divided into two paits.
Java Malabar Edw.
 Nicobars Heller  Zanzibar Hilgendorf  New Caledonia A.
M.Edw..
There is a considerable confusion regarding this species.
pdwards considers this as the Jancer vocans of Linne.
Linne in his tenth edition .p.
i2  175Y quotes Rumphius PI.
XIV f. E.  and Catesby's Carolina ii PI.
XXV.
Rumphius' figure of a specimen from Amboina represents a form with the fingers regularly tapering and resembling G. tetragonon more nearly than any other species with which I am acquainted but the figure is not accurate enough to have an systematic value.
Catesby's figure is the wellknown Ocypoda arenaiia of North America.
Linne in the Amoenitates Academici vi p. 416 gives a description which does not at all apply to this species and quotes in addition Marcgrave Piso Rumphius Catesby and Seba in the order given showing a still greater confusion.
In his 12th edition p1041 Gronovius and Petiver are added to the list but no hints showing what should be regarded as the Cancer vocanii.
As there exists such confusion it is impossible to apply the name vocana with certainty to an' species and for that reason I have thought.
it best to allow it to lapse into sj'nonymy and take the first recognis ible description for this species.
8.
Gelasimas marionis Desmarest.
PI.
ix f. 8.
Oelasimus marionis Desm. Consid.
sur le Crust. p. 124 PI.
XIII f. 1 1825  Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xviii p. 145 1852.
Carapax smooth and with each margin terminated by an acute angle directed forward an H shaped impression on the carapax.
Ocular peduncles slightly enlarged at the extremity and without a terminal point.
Inferior border of the orbit creuulate.
Right hand greatly larger than the left greatly' compressed basallv granulate finger straight its sides smooth its occludent margin granulate  thumb arcuate below with its internal border broadly excavate in the middle and armed with fine teeth.
Length 8 lines  breadth one inch Desmarest.
Manilla Desm..
Malabar 'Edw.''.
I have not seen any form corresponding to this description or figure.
S. Gelasimus dubius Stimpson.
Gelasimux dubius Stra. Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phlla. 1858 p. 99.
Carapax and front as in G. cultrimanus.
Inferior margin of orbit crenulate externally angulate.
Meros of larger cheliped spinulose hand stout externally granulate or tuberculate  internally with crests as in G. cuUrimanus but less prominent.
Digits rather broad externally sulcata  inner margin nearly straight irregularlj' dentate two or three teeth larger than the others Stm..
Loo Ghoo Stm..
10.
Gelasimus forcipatus White.
PI.
ix f. 9.
Qelanmus forcipatus White Catalogue Brit.
Mus.
Crust. p. 36 sine descr.
1847  Voyage Samarang Crust. p. 50 1848.
Gelasimun coarctatus Edwards Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xviii p. 146 PI.
Ill f. 6 1853  Heller Crustaceen Sud.
Europas p. 100 1863  Alph.
MilneEdwards Nouv.
Arch du Mus.
d'Hist.
Nat. IX p. 272 PI.
XII f. 4 1873.
Carapax convex naiTOwed behind.
Meros of larger cheliped externally granulate its margins denticulate.
Carpus granulate inner margin produced but without a prominent tooth.
Palm externally granulate its upper border slightly margined its lower tuberculate  on the inside a few tubercles in a curved line near the base of the dactjdus and an oblique line from the lower margin runs up to the articulation with the carpus dactylus granulate at the base otherwise the hand and fingers are smooth.
Thumb regularly tapering with an external impressed line its occludent margin regularly arcuate with genei'ally a prominent tubercle near the middle.
Dactylus with a prominent distal dentate lobe.
1 Odessa Guerin Phil.
Acad..
Philippines
Drs.
Wilson and Burroughs Phil Acad..
Australia
E. Wilson Phil.
Acad..
Borneo Adams and White.
Odessa Edw.
.
New Caledonia A.
M.Edw..
I have united these two nominal species from an actual comparison of specimens.
In the collection of GuerinMeneville now in the possession of the Philadelphia Academy is a specimen labelled  Gelasimus coarctatus Edw. Cat.
Mus. Paris Odessa and which was probably one of the original specimens which was the foundation of Edward's description.
I am strongly inclined to doubt of the authenticity of the locality  Odessa as I have been unable to find any other authority than that of Edwards.
Marcussen in his Fauna of the Black Sea Archiv.
fur Naturgeschichte xxxiii pp.
.358363 1867 does not mention it.
His subsequent paper and that of Uljanin I have not seen.
Heller merely quotes from MilneEdwards.
11.
Gelasimns arouatus De Haan.
PI.
ix f. 10.
Ocypode  Gelasimns arcuata De Haan Fauna Japonica Crustacea p. 53 PI.
VII f. 2 1835.
Gelasimns arcuatus M.Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat.
Ill xviii p. 146 1852  j Krauss siid Afrikanische Crustaceeu p. 39 1843  A.
M.Edw. Nouv.
Arch du Mus. ix p. 373 187'.
Carapax with sides carinate carina acute scarcel.y granulate inferior margin of orbit granulate.
Meros of larger cheliped above concave below flat  internally with an acute granular ridge.
Carpus externally convex above flat hand twice the breadth of the carapax  fingers compressed smooth externally longitudinally sulcate De Haan.
Japan De Haan.
JSew Caledonia A.
M.Edw..
J Natal Bay Krauss.
12.
Gelasimns tetragonon Ruppell.
PI.
ix f. 11.
Seba Thesaurus iii PL XIX f. 15. 
Cancer serratan Forskal Descr.
Animalium etc. p. 87 1775.
Cancer tetragonon Herbst 1. c i p. 257 PI.
XX f. 110 1790.
Gelasimns tetragonon Ruppell Beschreibung und Abbildung 24 Krabbeu des rothes Meeres p. 25 PL Y f. 5 1836  Edw. Hist.
Crust. ii p. 52 1837  Ann.
Sci.
Nat.
Ill xviii p. 147 PI.
Ill f. 9 1859  White Cat.
B. M. Crust p. 3G 1847  Guerin Voyage Coquille p. 10 1839'  Heller Reise der Novara p. 37 1868  Hilgendorf in van der Decken p. 84 1867  Kossman Reise nach rothen Meeren p. 52 1877.
Gelasimns duperreyi Gueviu 1 c PL I 1826  Dana U. S. Ex.
Ex.
Crust. p. 317 1852.
Gelasimns desjardinii Guerin MS. Gelasimns tetragonon var spinicarpa Kossmann 1. c p. 52.
Kossman gives a reference to a paper by Poulson but as the title is written in Russian I have not been able to verify it.
Carapax strongly arcuate front not expanded below the eyes Meros of the larger cheliped with the upper margin terminating distally in a strong spine carpus smooth the inner margin acute its basal portion sometimes expanded into a strong tooth.
Hand compressed externally finely granulate a shallow pit with coarse punctffi near the base of the thumb  internally granulate but without tubercular ridges  thumb with two prominences on the distal lialf  the finger regularly tapering.
Mauritius 
Dr. WiLson Guerin's Collection  Tongatabou 
Wilkes Expedition Tahiti
A. Garrett  Sandwich Is 
Dr. W. N. Jones ' The title page of the volume bears the date 1830 but the introduction to the Crustacea and Aiachnida is dated 15 Novembre 1838 so that it is probable that the volume did not appear complete until 1839.
The plates bear date 1826.
Phila.
Acad Tahiti and Sandwich Is..' A. Garrett Peab.
Acad.
 Red Sea and Nicoiar Is.
Heller Zanzibar HilgCndorf  Bourbon Edwards  New Caledonia A. MilneEdwards.
13.
Gelasimus acutns Sfm.
Gelashnus acutus Stm. Proc.
Phila.
Acad. 1858 p. 99.
Carapax narrowed behind anterolateral angles prominent acute marginal line distinct.
P'ront narrow not constricted inferior margin of orbit crenulate externally acute internal suborbital lobe convex  a crest on the subhepatic region parallel to the inferior margin of the orbit the included surface smooth.
Larger hand coarsely granulate a tubercular ridge on the inner surface.
Fingers not longer than the palm externally sulcate inner margin dentate median tooth larger but no subterminal tooth Stimpson.
Macao Stimpson.
14.
Gelasimus forceps MilneEdwards.
PI.
ix f. 12.
Oelasimus forceps Edw. Hist.
Nat.
des Cmst. ii p. 52 1837  Annales des Sciences Naturelles III serie tome xviii p. 148 PI.
Ill f. 11 1852  White Cat.
Brit.
Mus.
Crust. p. 36 1847.
Cavapax narrowed behind lateral angles prominent acute orbits below with two denticulate margins.
Meros and carpus smooth the lower margin of the meros crenulate upper cristate finely dentate  hand smooth or indistinctly granulate fingers long slender finely denticulate the thumb with a distal lobe Edwards.
Australia Edwards White.
I have not forms referable to the two foregoing species.
15.
Gelasimus longidigitum nov..
PI.
ix f. 13.
Closely allied to forceps in shape of carapax orbits below with a simple smooth margin.
Meros and carpus smooth the inner margin of the carpus acute crenulate.
Basal portion of the hand externally obscurely granulate  internally with an oblique tubercular ridge and a few tubercles near the base of the fingers.
Fingers compressed long finely denticulate and narrower near the base than at the middle point.
Moreton Bay Australia 
E. Wilson.
16.
Gelasimus smitMi nov..
PI.
ix f. 14.
Carapax gibbous front narrow  meros with a strong oblique ridge on the upper outer surface the inner upper mnrgin produced into a prominent vertical crest.
Carpus externally nearlj' smooth.
the inner margin slightly produced and denticulate.
I'ulni externally granulate above smooth below its upper margin granulate and indistinctly indicated by an impressed line on the outer surfice and its inner surface smooth without tubercular ridges except one at the base of the fingers.
Fingers long slender slightly compressed and regularly tapering the extremity of the dactylus somewhat expanded and excavate.
Natal
E. Wilsou Phila.
Acad..
Named in honor of my friend Prof. S. I. Smith of Yale College who has monographed the Amei'ican species of this genus.
17.
Gelasimus urvillei M.Edw.
PI.
i. f. 15.
GeUisiinus urvillei M.Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xviii i.
148 PI.
Ill f. 10 1852.
Resembles closely G. forceps but has the mediofrontal sulcus nearly linear and the fingers shorter the anterior border of the meros of the larger cheliped obtuse and granulate M.Edw..
Vanikoro M.Edw..
18.
Gelasimus dussamieri M.Edw.
PI.
x f. 16.
Gelasimus dussumieri M.dw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xviii PI.
IV f. 12 1852
Hilgendorf in van der Decken's Reise in Ost Afrika Crustaceen p. 84 PI.
IV f. 1 1867  Alph.
M Edw. Nouv.
Arch da Mus.
d'Hist.
Nat.
IX p. 274 1873.
Resembles closely G. urvillei but the accessory suborbital lobe is less marked the median sulcus of the front entirely linear and the anterior border of the meros of the larger cheliped denticulate.
Chela verlarge G. rubripes is closely allied but appears to be distinguished by the form of the fingers of the larger hand the larger tubercles of the carpus etc. Ex.
auct..
Malabar and Samarang Edw.
 New Caledonia A.
M.Edw.
 Zanzibar Hilgendorf.
19.
Gelasimus rubripes Jacq.
and Lucas.
PI.
x f. 17.
Geliisimus rubripes Jacquinot and Lucas Voyage des Astrolabe et Zelee Crustacea p. 66 PI.
VI f. 2 1853  Heller Reise der Novara Crustaceen p. 38 1867.
Orbits granulate above and below carpus of larger cheliped with the external portion granulate its margins finely denticulate.
Hand prominently granulate internally smooth except fine granulations at the origin of the thumb  below strongl dentate finger smooth except at the base where it is granulate the inner margin of the thumb with three large teeth the intervals between which are finely denticulate.
Thumb smooth below its inner margin with several rows of granulations and a prominent tooth near the middle J. et L..
Unknown J. and L.  Nicobars Heller.
20.
Gelasimus signatus Hess.
PI.
x f. 18.
Oelasimus signatus Hess Archiv fur Naturgeschichte xxxi p. 146 PI.
VI f. 6 1865. 
Front between the eyes not so small as a G. variatns cheliped one and a half times the breadth of the body arm carpus and hand bright red fingers white.
Arm below with two rows of pearlj' tubercles fingers with an elevation at the middle of the inner border distallj' arcuate and pointed  Hess.
Sydney Australia Hess.
21.
Gelasimus crassipes White.
PI.
x f. 19.
Oelasimus crassipes White Cat.
B. M.
Crust. p. 36 sine descr.
 Adams and White Voyage Samarang Crustacea p. 49 1848.

0. brevipes Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xviii p. 146 1852. 
Carapace very much arched suddenly narrowed behind front with a lobe without narrow stalk.
Four hind pairs of legs thicker and stronger than in the other species  Ad.
and White.
Philippine Islands White.
There have been described three other species  belonging to the narrowfronted section one of which has been made the type of the genus AcanthopJax by Milne Edwards.
A fourth species from Bahia Brazil is in the collection of the Philadelphia Academy.
So far as 1 am aware these are all females and are represented by only a single specimen each and as I am strongly inclined to consider them the females of wellknown forms I omit descriptions of them.
 Oelasimus insignis Smitli Trans.
Conn.
Acad. ii p. 126 1870.
Acayithoplaxinsignis'Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xviii p. 151 PI.
IV f 23 1852  Archives des Museum vii p. 162 PI.
II f. 1 1854. Chili Edw..
Oelasimus ornatus Smith Trans.
Conn.
Acad. ii p. 125 PL II f. 9 PI.
Iir f. 5 1870  Report Peabody Acad.
Science iii p. 91 1871. West Coast Nicaragua
McNiel Peab.
Acad..
Acanthoplax excellens Gerstiicker Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte xxii p. 138  1856.
No locality.
 B.
Front broad between the orbits.
 Male abdomen sevenjointed.
22.
Gelasimus vocator Martens.
PI.
x f. 20.
Cancer vocator Herbst Bd.
iii h. iv p. 1 PI.
LIX f. 1 1804.
Gelasimus vocans Edw. Hist.
Nat.
Crust. ii p. 54 1837  111.
Edit.
Regne Animal Cru.stacea PI.
XVIII f. 1 no date  White Cat.
B. M.
Crust. p. 36 sine synon.
 1847.
Gelmimus vocans pars Gould luvertebrata of Mass p. 325 1841.
Oelasimus vocans var.
a Dekay N. Y. Fauna Crustacea p. 14 PI.
VI f. 10 1844.
Gelasim2is palustrisBdyr. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xviii p. 148 PI.
IV f. 13 1852  Stimpson Annals N. Y. Lyceum Nat.
Hist. p. 62 1860 Smith Trans.
Conn.
Acad. ii p. 127 1870.
Gelasimus pugillator Leconte Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Philadelphia 1855 p. 403.
Gelasimus brevifrons Stimps. Ann.
N. Y. Lyceum vii p. 229 1860  Smith Trans.
Conn.
Acad. ii p. 131 1870  Lockington Proc.
Cal.
Acad. vii p. 147 1877.
Gelasimus sp.
Saussure Memoirs Societe Phys.
et Hist.
Nat.
Geneve xiv p. 440 18581.
Gelasimus vocator Martens Archiv fiir Naturgesch. xxxv p 1 1869  xxxviii p. 104 1872  Kingsley Proc.
Phila.
Acad. 1879 p. 400.
Gelasimus pugnax mordax et rapax Smith Trans.
Conn.
Acad. ii pp.
131 135 134 Pis.
II f. 1 2 3 IV 2 3 4 1870.
Gelasimus affinis Streets Proc.
Phila.
Acad. 1872 p. 131.
Gelasimus crenulatus Lockington Proc.
Cal.
Acad. vii p. 149 1877.
Carapax smooth meros of the larger eheliped with its margins denticulate or tuberculate caipus externally granulate internally with an oblique tubercular ridge.
Hand tuberculate its inner surface with a ridge running up from lower margin to carpal groove  in front of this are scattered granules.
Thumb straight extremity obliquely truncate finger strongl arcuate longer than the thumb.
East Coast of America from Cape Cod
to Para Brazil
West Indies
and Aspinwall 
West Coast of Mexico 
Panama
The localities from which I have examined specimens number over thirty and embrace several hundred specimens.
I find in the Guerin Collection two specimens from Mauritius which closely resemble Cuban forms.
This is without much doubt the species intended by Herbst  Edwards quotes the Cancer jMlustris of Sloane as this species but aside from the fact that his History of Jamaica was published in 1125 And his name is therefore anteLinnean and is also polynomial Sloane gives not the slightest description but says thit it agrees perfectly with the figure of Marcgrave which is the G.. maracoani of authors.
I think that any one studying as I have large series of specimens will agree with me in uniting these various forms under one specific name as the characters which separate them are variable and not of specific importance.
Probably G. minax should also be included here as suggested by Professor Smith.
23.
Gelasimus minax LeConte.
PI.
x f. 21.
Gelamnus minax LeConte PixC. Phila.
Acad. vii p. 403 1855  Smith Trans.
Conn.
Acad. ii p. 128 PL II f. 4 PI.
IV f. 1 1870  Rep. U. S. Fish Commission for 187172 p. 545 1875 Kingsley Proc.
Phila.
Acad. 1879. p. 400.
Carapax strongly arcuate longitudinally the branchial regions granulate anteriorly.
Meros of larger chelipeds with the upper and lower margins tubei'culate as is the upper portion of carpus  inner margin of carpus with prominent tubercles its inner surface with an oblique tubercular ridge.
Palm cristate above externally with large depressed tubercles above smaller below inner surface also tuberculate and with a ridge of tubercles running obliquely up from the lower margin at the base of the thumb to the depression into which the carpus folds and a second curved one near the base of the fingers.
Fingers long slender regularly tapering finger longer than the thumb and distally strongly' arcuate.
Beesley's Point Dennis Creek N.J..' S. Ashmead Phila.
Acad. LeConte's types  Bhiffton S. G. 
Dr. Mellichamp Peab.
Acad.
 Northampton Co. Va.  H. E. Websier Union College New Haven Conn. and St. Avgustine Fla. Smith.
24.
Gelasimus annulipes M.Edw.
PI.
x f. 22.
Oekisimus annulipes M.Edw. Hist.
Nat.
Crust. II p. 55 PI.
18 1.
1013 18371  White Cat.
B. M.
Crust. p 36 1847'  Edw.. Ann.
Sci.
Nat.
Ill xviii p. 149 PI.
IV f. 45 1852  Dana U. S. Ex.
Ex.
Crust. 317 1853  Heller Reise der Novara Crustacea p. 88 1867 Hilgendorf in Baron Decken's Reise p. 85 1867  Monatsberichte Berliner Akademie 1878 p. 803 Kossmann Reise nach rothen Meeren p. 53 187  Spence Bate in J. K. Lord's Naturalist in Vancouver.
Gelasimus macrodactylus Edwards and Lucas in D'Orbigny's Voyage 27 PI.
XI f. 3 1843  Nicollet in Gay's Hist.
Chili Zool. iii 165 1840 Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xviii 149 1852 Gelasimus lacteus Krauss Sud.
Af.
Crust. p. 39 teste Hilgendorf j. Gelasimus pidchellus UtiTaitsou Proc.
Phila.
Acad. 1858 p. 100.
Gelasimus annulipes av albiinana kossmann I.e.. Gelmimus rectilatus Lockington Proc.
California Acad.
Sci. p. 148 1877 I Carapax transversely nearly flat  inferior margin of orbit crenulate.
Meros of larger cheliped smooth angles rounded carpus the same with a few obsolete granulations on the upper surface.
Hand smooth submarginate below an oblique row of tubercles on the inner surface running up and back from near the lower margin half way to articulation with the carpus and two sitttilar cuived lines near the articulation of the dactylus.
Thumb regularly tapering a prominent tubercle near the middle extremity subexcavate.
Dactylus distally strongly curved extending slightly beyond the thumb.
Australia
E. Wilson Singapore
Dr. McCartee Phila.
Acad.
 Zanzibar
C. Cooke N. W. Boundary Survey A. Campbell Commr. Dr. C. B. Kennerly 
Peabody Acad.
 Seas of India and Asia Edw.
 Ceylon Nicobars Madras Heller Mozambique Inhambeni Hilgendorf  Pondicherry White  Valparaiso Edw.
and Lucas  Vancouver Bate  Lower California Lockington  Tahiti im.
 Red Sea Kossmann.
25.
Gelasimus laoteas DeHaan.
PI.
x f. 28.
Ocypode Gelasimua lacteus DeHaan Fauna Japonica Crust. p. 54 PI.
XV f. 5 183.3.
Oelasimus lacteus Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xviii 150 PI.
IV f. 16 1852  Stm. Proc.
Phila.
Acad. 1858 100 Miers Proc.
Zool.
Poc 1879 p. 36.
Carapax longitudinally strongly arcuate transversely nearly f.at anterolateral angles prominent meros of larger cheliped externally granulate a constriction of the upper margin near the articulation with the carpus lower crenulate or even denticulate.
Carpus externally smooth inner edge acute denticulate  hand externally finely granulate above more plainlj so  a crenulated ridge near the inner lower margin and one or two near the fingers.
Fingers elevated strongly compressed the thumb suddenly narrowed near the apex.
Japan
E. Wilson  Pondicherry 
Dr. T. B. Wilson fPhila.
Acad.
 Japan DeHaan  China Edw.
Stm..
33. aelasimas splendidas Stm.
Qelasiinus splendidus Stm. Proc.
Phila.
Acad. 1858 p. 99.
Inferior margin of orbit crenulate externally rounded.
Larger hand nearly smooth internally with an oblique tubercular crest.
Crest at the base of the fingers nearly obsolete.
Fingers long slender slightly denticulate.
Thumb with the apex excavate Stm..
Hong Kong Stm..
I have not seen this species  it however appears to be very near annuHpes.
27.
Gelasimus minor Owen.
Gelasimus minor Owen in Beechey's Voyage of the Blossom  Appendix  Crustacea p. 76 PI.
XXIV f. 2 1831.
Oahu Sandwich Is.
Owen.
Tliis species is very near the annuHpes of Edwards the only difference being the larger teeth of the fingers of tlie cheliped.
28.
Gelasimus triangularis A. M.Edw.
Oelasimus triangularis A.
M.EJw. Nouv.
Arch du Mus. IX p. 275 1873.
Is distinguished from ctdtrimanus forcipafns arcuatus tetragonon duiisiimieri perjlexus i latreiUei by the carapax greatly larger in front and smaller behind  the lateral angles are spiniform and directed strongly forward the front between the eyes is large and rounded.
Larger cheliped externall smooth palmar portion long and proximally inflated.
Inner surface with a granular ridge inner margin of fingers dentate finger a little longer than the thumb.
This species is allied to G. winor by the form of the hand but is distinguished by the more triangular carapax A. M.E..
New Caledonia A. M.Edw.
29.
Gelasimus gaimardi Edw.
PI.
x f. 23.
Gelasirmis gaimardi Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat.
Ill xviii.
lijO PI.
IV f. 17 1852  Heller Reise Novara Crust. p. 38 1867.
Very near annuHpes but having the front more prolonged and more rounded below and the external internal 
crest of the hand obtuse and not denticulate resembling that of G. Jatreillei Edw.
Tongatabou Edw.
 Tahiti Heller.
30.
Gelasimus panamensis Stm PI.
x f. 24.
Gelasimus pan amensis Stm. Ann.
Lye VII p. 63 I860 Smith Trans Conn.
Acad. II 137 PI.
IV f. 5 1870 Carapax depressed.
Anterior and inferior margins of the meros of the larger cheliped crenulated posterior rounded.
Carpus very short smooth  hand smooth externally and internally fingers regularly tapering.
Gulf of Fonseca
McNiel Peab.
Acad..
31.
Gelasimus pugillator.
Ocypoda pugillator Bosc Hist.
Xat.
Crust. Edit.
I i p. 197 18023 teste Auct.
Edit.
II i p. 2501828  Latr.
Hist.
Crust et Ins.
vi 47 18034 Ocypoda pugillator pars. Sa.j Jour.
Phila.
Acad.
I 71 and 443 181718.
Oelasimus pugillator Latr. Nouv.
Diet d'Hist.
Nat.
Edit.
II p. 519 1817  Desmarest Consid.
123 1825 Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat.
torn.
cit.
p. PI.
IV f. 14 1852  Stm.
Ann.
N. Y. Lye.
VII p. 62 1859  Smith Trans.
Conn. Acad.
II p 136 PI.
IV f. 7 1870  Rep. U. S. Fish Comm.
187172 p. 545 1875.
Gelastmus uocans pars.
 Gould Invertebrata of Massachusetts p. 325 1841  Dekay N. Y. Fauna Crust. 14 PI.
VI f. 9 1844.
Carapax polished swollen nearly quadrate.
Meros of the larger cheliped with the outer surface rugose upper and lower margins crenulate.
Carpus granulate externally its inner margin acute hand inflated the basal portion granulate and margined above and below  inner surface rounded granulate but without any trace of a tuberculate ridge except one formed by a continuation of the inner margin of the thumb.
Thumb nearly straight a ridge on the outer surface a large tubercle near the middle of the inner margin the extremity obliquely truncate.
The finger is longer than the thumb iegularly tapering and distally strongly arcuate.
There is a specimen in the collection of the Philadelphia Academy from Surinam which appears to be intermediate in the characters of the hand between this and G. vocator.
The fingers are shorter the granules on the outside of the palm much more prominent than in typical pugillator and there are traces though faintly indicated of a tubercular ridge on the inside of the palm.
JVew Jersey 
T. Say Wm.
Wood  Manatee River 
S. Ashmead  Mauritius 
Guerin's Collection  Greenpoint L. I. 
S. F. Baird  Boston Earborf J. H. Slack Phila.
Acad.
 Nantucket and Key West Fla. 
A. S. Packard  Bluffton S. G. 
Dr. Mellichamp  Savannah Ga. 
no collector's name given Peab.
Acad.
 Beaufort N. a H. E. Webster Union College  New Haven Conn. Egmont Key and St. Augustine Fla. Smith  South Carolina and Cayenne Edw..
32.
Gelasimus chlorophthalmus Edw.
PI.
x f. 2B 27.
Gelasimus chlorophthalmus Edw. Hist.
Nat.
Crust.
II 54 1837  Ann.
Sci.
Nat.
torn.
cit.
150 PI.
IV f. 19 1852 McLeay in Smith's Zool.
S. Africa p. 64 1838  White Cat.
B. M.
Crust. p. 36 1847 Guerin Iconog.
Crust. PI.
IV f. 3 Hilgendorf in Decken's Reise Crust p. 85 1867 Monatsberichte Berlin Akad. 1878 p. 803 Gelasimus marionis Edw. Hist.
Nat.
Crust. II 53 1837  Gelasimus perplexus Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat.
torn cit. 150 PI.
IV.
f. 18 1852  Heller Novara Crust p. 38 PI.
V f. 4 1867  A. M.Edw.
Nouv.
Arch.
Mus.
IX 274 1873  teste Hilgendorf.
Carapax arcuate.
Larger hand small joints all smooth fingers short frequently shorter than the palm  the ridges on the inside of the pahn either smooth or obsoletely granulate  fingers denticulate regularly arcuate.
Island of Bourou 
Guerin's Collection Phila.
Academy Mauritius Edw White Zanzibar Mozambique and Mascarenes Hilgendorf  Java Edw.
 Ceylon and Madras Heller Neic Caledonia A. M.
Edw..
I also understand that Maillard found this species at Reunion Injt I have not seen the work.
Hilgendorf from an actual comparison of specimens says that the perpJexus and chlorophthahnus of Edwards are the same.
The r. stenodactylus of Lockington Proc.
California Acad. vii p. 148 1877 from West Coast of Lower California would appear from the description and a rough figure of the hand sent me by the author to be near this species  it certainly is not stenodactylus of Edwards and Lucas.
33.
Gelasimus subcylindricus Stimpson.
PI.
x f. 29.
Gelasiiius subcylindricus Stimpson Ann.
N. Y. Lye vii p. 63 1859 Smith Trans.
Conn.
Acad. ii p. 137 PI.
IV f. 6 1870 Carapax obscurely granulate.
Margins of meios of larger raeliped granulous.
Hand internally without tubercular ridge t'xcept two or thi'ee parallel curved rows near the base of the Singers externally granulate.
Fingers closely resembling those of G. vocator the common east coast form Smith.
Matamoras on the Rio Grande Smith Stm..
3.
Gelasimus latreillei E Iw.
PI.
x f. 31.
Gelasimus latreillei Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xviii p. 150 PI.
IV f. 20 1852  A. M. Edw  Nouv.
Arch.
Mus. ix 1873.
Carapax smooth lateral angles far behind the front.
Greater cheliped smooth  meros with the upper and posterior margins rounded the upper ending in a prominent tubercle the lower crenulate and prominent.
Inner upper margin of carpus minutely crenulate the others rounded.
Hand cristate above externally microscopically granulate internally with a smooth ridge near the lower margin no tubercles present  fingers slender slightly compressed regularly arcuate with fine tuberculations on the cccludent margins the extremity of the thumb subexcavate.
Philippines f Dr. T. B. Wilson Phila.
Academy Isle of Borabora Edw.
 New Caledonia A. M.
Edw..
Froc.
Ji.
r.
S. PhOid'.
2880.
1 JtrdiAr TL .
my JJi Torimjuv JoAnjfoTu fA.ei.
J2J AJalciricu proccifruz fA.ttS.
XDal's JAvpi tn fnhcv.
Froc.
.JV.
S. Fhilud.
I880.
IlJ AuzSr.
JPL jr. ' Oy JO.
Jt rA Q Jl.
d.
aZhopapillosa l..
12 l3.
4ctnt7iod .
pzlostv M.
..
JUy.u.
.U..AU I'tvc.
.JS.
Fhla.
JS80.
III.
Mr TIM.
J.6.
39 J..umJ ffrMhi Z..
J.iJ4.
Z rariins .
J I'roo.
.2V.
6 Jhicz.
J880.
IVJ jfuM  3.
'.
J.
t JlfJA  J.
J6'.
.r7tfiJriifjr f.M. 
trr .
f Froc.ji.N.S.
Piilcui.J''if'K Vj jr7r J xi 47.ns Avpl.
in AJak.
P7OC.
Ji.Jr.S.
PhUa.
1880.
VI J Mbr .
Jl.TT.
JJ  20 .
Tripa TnodfM .
JB .
2122.
Ttr7ttieray  Jf.
.
J JO.
Triopi rruirta.. Ji M 3 Tr r747tifera jU 14.
Jhl.
ptntii .
B. jhaLr rpl.
in .6 f Proc .4.MS.
FhUod.
1880.
VIII J Jfi7rJ xn.
J  Poto pafuiti  li IOJl.
rcltftl .
JfonffreifnjzjC.
rjJ8.
ApJirUf .
inttV  H. Jp2.
Fo7y .
JTohoffi Jf.J.
PROC.A NS 1880 PL IX KINGSLEYONCELASIMI.
PROC.
A N. S 1880.
KINGSLEYONGELASIML 35.
Gelasimus tangieri Eydous.
PI.
x f. 30.
Oelasimus taiigieri Eydoux Magazin de Zoologic 1835 clvii PL XVII Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. 1852 p. 151 PI.
IV f. 21 Heller Crustaceeu des siidlichen Europas p. 101 1863j.
Carapax transversely nearly flat the sides of the branchial regions strongly arcuate  above everywhere granulate  lower margin of orbit bimarginate.
Meros of larger cheliped externally roughened the upper margin produced into an arcuate crest which is fringed with hairs the lower margin with two rows of tubercles.
Carpus elongate externally with prominent tubercles an oblique ridge on the inner surface with a slender obtuse spine at about the middle.
Palm margined above and armed with spiniform tubercles externally with depressed tubercles inferior margin denticulate to the tip of the thumb  internally a row of tubercles near the base of the fingers a second runs obliquely upward from the lower mai'gin meeting a third running backward from the articulation of the finger elsewhere internally smooth.
Fingers elevated strongh' compressed.
Dactylus Avith the upper margin and outer basal surface tuberculate  the rest of the outer surface finely granulate.
Occludent margins of both fingers with three rows of tubercles the margin of the finger regularly arcuate that of the thumb with a prominence near the middle Meral joints of the ambulatory feet denticulate above and below.
Tangier
Guerin's Collection Eydoux's Types West Africa
Duchaillu 
Bahia 
E. Wilson Phila.
Acad.
 Cadiz and Coasts of Morocco Edwards.
Edwards' figure is very poor.
36.
Gelasimus perlatus Herklots PI s f 25.
Gelasimus perlatus Herklots Additamenta ad Famiam p 16 1851' Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xviii p. 151 1852 Hilgendorf Monatsberichte Berlin.
Akad. 1878 p. 806.
Carapax arcuate in both directions above with patches of oranules more prominent on the anterolateral portions.
Larger cheliped much smaller than is usual in the genus.
Meros granulate the posterior margin rounded the anterior produced in an arcuate crest carpus and hand externally granulate.
Hand cristate above internally without tubercular ridges fingers compressed.
Guinea
E. Wilson Phila.
Academy Boutry West Const of Africa Herklots Loando Chinchoxo Liberia Hilgendorf.
11 This species is closely allied to tangieri but differs in the proportionately smaller cheliped without tubercular ridges on the inner surface and in the more sparse tuberculation of the carapax.
  Male Abdomen fivejointed 37.
Gelasimus stenodactylus Edw.
et Lucas.
PI.
x f. 3335.
GJagimus gtenodactylus Edw.
and Lucas in D'Orbigny's Voyage Crust p. 26 PI.
XI f. 2 1843  Nicollet in Gay's Hist of Chili Zoologie iii p. 105 1849 Edw.
Ann.
Sci.
Nat.
Ill xviii 149 1852.
Gelasimus gibbosus Smith Trans.
Conn.
Acad. II p. 141 PI.
II f. 11 PL IV f. 8 1870 Lockington 1. c. Gelasimus leptodactylus et poeyi Giieriu MS. Carapax smooth transversely flat the regions sti'6ngly gibbous.
Meros and carpus of larger cheliped elongate meros smooth its angles rounded carpus externally unconspicuously granulate its inner margin acute denticulate.
Hand externally smooth or granulate a tubercular ridge on the inside of the palm running obliquely from the lower margin to the groove in which the carpus folds.
Fingers much longer than the palm internally denticulate.
Mexico 
Cuba
Brazil 
Guerin's Collection Phila.
Acad.
 Gulf of Fonseca
McNiel Peab.
Acad.
 Gulf of California I W. N. Lockington Brown University  Valparaiso Edw.
and Luc.
Of the following species I can say but little.
I have not seen specimens which would answer to the descriptions and figui'es while the descriptions are so meagre that I cannot decide regarding their affinities.
38.
Gelasimus variegatus Heller Verhandlung der Zool.
Bot.
Gesellschaft Wien 1862 p. 521. 
G. annulari affinis sed brachium chelipedum ad raarginem superiorem carinatum et dentatum index dactylo paulo brevior acuminatus.
Madras.
'' This is described as one of the specimens collected b' the Novara in her voyage around the world but in Dr. Heller's final memoir on the Crustacea of that expedition this species is not mentioned.
39.
Gelasimus variatus Hess Archiv.
fiir Naturgeschiclite XXXT 146 PI.
VI f. 7 1865.
PI X f. 32.
Cephalothorax smooth greatly swollen.
Front between the eyes small.
Greater cheliped of male somewhat longer than the breadth of the carapax.
There is a large triangular depression at the base of the index finger  the index finger is somewhat bent tlie thumb is straight  both are tuberculate on the inner margin.
Sydney Australia .
40.
Gelasimus porcellanus White Cat.
B. M.
Crust. p. 36 sine descr.
 Adams and White Voyage of the Samarang Crustacea p. 50 1848 Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill .wiii p. 151 1852. 
Eye pedicels veiy long frontal portion of earapax not narrowed at the base  hind part of earapax much longer than the sides.
Forelegs with the lower claws thickened at the end the inner margins of both claws with four larger tubercles amongst the smaller crenules.
Hab. Borneo.''''
Adams and White.
41.
Gelasimus inversus Hoffmann Recb.
Faun. Madagascar p. 29 Pl.
IV f. 232G.
Madagascar.
I have never seen this work the quotation being taken from the Zoological Record.
EXPLANATION OF PLATES.
1.
G. maracoani.
19.
G. brevipes after 5IilneEdw..
2.
G. heterocheles.
20.
G. vocator.
3.
G. bellator.
21.
G. minai drawn from type.
4.
G'.
ser.s after MilneEdw.
22.
G. annuHpes.
5.
G. heterophthalmus.
23.
G. gaimardi.
6.
G. heteropleurus.
24.
G. panamensis.
7.
G. cultrimaau.
25.
G. perlatus.
8.
G. marionis after Desmarest.
26.
G. chlorophtkalmus.
9.
G. forcipatus.
27.
G. perplexus after Edwards.
10.
G. arcuatus.
 28.
G. lacteun.
11.
G. tetragonon.
29.
G. subcglindricus after Smith.
12.
G'.orcfJs after MilneEdwards.
30.
G. taagieri irova.
ty.
13.
G. longidigitum.
31.
G. latreillei.
14.
G. smithii.
32.
G. variaius .after Hess.
15.
G. Mi'i7e2' after MilneEdw..
33.
G. sert.odaclyhtshon'QvA.zi.
16.
G. dussiimieri after MilneEdw..
34.
G. stenodactylus after Edwards 17.
G. rubripes after Hombron et et Lucas.
Jacquinot.
35.
G. stenodactylus from ISIekico.
18.
G. signatus after Hess.
156 proceedings of the academy of 1880.
April 6.
The Tresideiit Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Forty two persons present.
The death of Wm.
Theodore Eoepper a correspondent was announced.
April 13.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twentyeight persons present.
A paper entitled  Description of a New Species of Catostomus C. cypho from the Colorado River by Wm.
X. Lockington was presented for publication.
The death of M. Laporte Count de Castelnau a correspondent was aimounced.
Remarks on Pond Life.
 Prof. Leidy remarked that at the invitation of Mr. Joseph W. Griscom he had recently visited some little ponds in the vicinity of AVoodbury New Jersey which were remarkable for the profusion of minute invertebrate life.
The ponds oceup' hollows in the woods and consist mostly of accumulated rain water though several are likewise supplied by springs.
Several are completely di'ied up during the summer.
Mr. Griscom says they continue rich in animal life even during the winter.
Of animals entomostracans are.
exceedingly numerous and varied.
Amonosome of the most beautiful and conspicuous were noticed abundance of Brancliipus of which two species from the same locality have been recently described by Mr. Ryder under the names of Chirocephalus holmanii and Streptucejihalus sealii.
There are also wonderful multitudes of many species of copepods ostracods and cladoceres several of which are conspicuous for their large size and bright red color.
In one of the ponds a bright green Hydra was frequent and in another a pinkish one was abundant.
These appear to be the H. gracilis and H. carnea of Agassiz but it is a question whether they are not the same as the H. viridis and H. fusca of Europe.
Some of the Hydras were of a bright red color and Mr. Griscom intimated that this was due to the pinkish variety feeding on red entomostracans.
This was confirmed by some of the pink ones which were brought home and kept in a jar with abundance of red Cyclops becomiug after a few clays as a result of feedingon the latter of the same orangered hue.
Subsequently when food became scarce the red Hj'dras lost their bright color.
In one of the ponds the stems of rushes and dead branches of trees were invested with a bright grassgreen stratum consisting of a bright green Vorticella probably the V. fasciculafa of Midler.
The green color is dependent on chloroph'l granules as an element of the structure and not on food.
The body of the animal ranged from O'lOS mm.
long by 0Ofi mm.
broad to 0'12 mm.
long by 0'09 mm.
broad.
A few measured were 0'1.5 mm.
long by 0102 mm.
broad at the peristome.
In a large active bunch most of them measured 009 mm.
long and broad.
The pedicels were from five to eioht times the length of the bodv.
In another pond the water was rendered turbid from the profusion of Volrox glohator.
In a bay of this pond filled with dead leaves a portion of water taken into a jar appeared opalescent from the quantity of minute white flakes it contained.
These on examination proved to be Spirostomum amhiguum.
In the same pond the Spatterdock Nuphar ad vena was just about unfolding its leaves and mau of these were thickly invested with a clear jelly dotted with bright green spots.
These proved to be Sfentor yjolymorphus.
On the underside of a few open leaves on the surface of the water were many spots of bright green and dull reddish.
The former consisted of groups of the green Vorticella before mentioned the other consisted of attached groups of a lilacor amethystinecolored Stent07 probably S. igneus.
Similar groups of this Stenfor were observed on a floating log which had been in the water since last 3'ear as it exhibited attached many statoblasts of a Plumafella.
Ehrenberg describes S. igneus as bright yellow or vermilion  Stein as blood red or often lilaccolored or vermilion to brownish red.
Ehrenberg found it attached to Hottonia.
Stein says he never saw it fixed but alwaj'S swimmmg.
The Woodbury variety which might be named S. amethystinus was abundant and invariably found in conspicuous groups visible to the unaided eye and when detached thougli the animals swam about actively they were not onl' disposed to become fixed but they actualh gathered together in groups.
They all contained an abundance of chloropbyl apparently derived from food but the exterior structure was invariably of a distinct amethystine hue dependent on fine molecules.
The color was more pronounced in the longitudinal bands approaching the peristome.
The nucleus was spherical.
In the attached state when the animal was fullj extended and presented a trumpet shape it was 06 mm.
long by 018 mm.
wide at the peristome.
This was a common size but some measured were O'Si mm.
long.
In the conical form when swimming individuals ranged from 0'2r to 045 mm.
long.
In the most contracted condition of oval shape they measured 018 mm.
long by 015 mm.
broad.
The nucleus 003 mm.
in diameter.
Ehrenberg and Stein give for S. igneus onesixth of a line length so that the variety indicated would appear to be much longer.
April 20.
Mr. Thomas Meehan VicePresident in the chair.
Twentynine persons present.
April 27The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Thirtyfour persons present.
Lionel S. Beale of London was elected a correspondent.
May 4.
Mr. Thomas Meehan TicePresident in the chair.
Twenty eight persons present.
May 11.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twentytwo persons present.
The following papers were ordered to be printed in the Journal of the Academ'. 
The Terrestrial Mollusca inhabiting the Cooks or Harvey Islands by Andrew Garrett. 
The Placenta and Generative Apparatus of the Elephant by Henry C. Chapman M. D.
1880.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
159 May 18.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twentysix persons present.
A paper entitled  On the Structure of the Oraug Outang by Henrj' C. Chapman M. D. was presented for publication.
The death of Wm.
Logan Fox a member was announced.
A fine portrait in oil by Uhle of Isaac Lea LL.
D. was presented to the Academy and the following iesolution was unanimously adopted  Re.Holved That the thanks of the Academy be presented to Dr. Isaac Lea for his gift of an admirable portrait of himself which has been long desired by the societ' and especially by the senior members who are cognizant of his valuable contributions to science as well as towards the prosperit of the Academy.
May 25.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twentytwo persons present.
The  Proceedings of the Mineralogical and Geological Section of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia for the years 18lt18t8 and 1879 was presented for publication.
Henry S. Gratz R. S. Peabody Mrs. R. S. Peabody and William Barbeck were elected members.
Adolf E. Nordenskiold of Stockholm Carl Ochsenius of Marburg Oscar Hertwig and Richard Hertwig of Jena were elected correspondents.
The following were ordered to be printed   ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE ORA.NG OUTANG.
BY HENRY C. CHAPMAN M. D. Tarious parts of the Orang Siniia satyi'iis L. have Ibeen dissected described and figured bj Tiedemann Owen Saiidilbrt Cuvier Schroeder yan der Kolk and Yrolik Rolleston Selb'' Huxley Bischoff Barnard'' Langer Gratiolet Spitzka and others.
It was hardly to be expected the subject having been investigated by such eminent observers that I could hope to find anj'thing particularly new to science.
It occurred to me however that it might not be altogether useless to bring to the notice of the Academy a general resume of the results of jny dissection of the Orang that died at the Philadelphia Zoological Garden in Februarj last more especially as the memoirs referred to below are scattered through the journals and are often limited to descriptions of certain parts of the animal only such as the brain muscular svstem etc.
My Orang was a j'oung male supposed to be about three years old.
The following measurements were taken  From vertex to rump 16 inches  upper extremity 20 inches  arm 7 inches  forearm 8 inches hand 5j inches lower extremity 17 inches thigh 5 inches  leg 6 inches  foot 6 inches.
What struck me at once was the length of the upper extremitj it being 3 inches longer 1 Tiedemann Zeit.
Phys.
Darmstadt 1837.
2 Oweu Proc.
Zool.
Soc i 1830 1831.
 Saudifort Ontleerlavindige Beschryving Leideu 1840.
 Cuvier and Laurillard Planches 1849.
 Schroeder van der Kolk and Vrolik Verhandelingen Kou.
Nied.
Inst.
 1849 Verslagen Kon.
Acad. 1862. fi Rolleston Nat.
Hist.
Rev. 1861.
 Selby Nat.
Hist.
Rev. 1861.
 Huxley Med.
Times 1864.
 Bischoff Munich Abhand.
1870.
 Barnard Proc.
American Assoc 1876. ''
Langer Sitzungsberichte Wien 1879.
' Gratiolet Plis Cerebraux des Primates no date. 
Spitzka Journal of Mental and Nervous Diseases 1879.
Note.
 I regret that when dissecting the Gorilla I was unacquainted with Mr. Macalister's valuable paper in the Proceedings of Royal Irish Academy for 1873.
tlian the lower one the Orang agreeing nearly in this respect with the Gorilla' which 1 dissected the difference in the extremities in that animal being Sj inches whereas in the ChimpanzeeI found only a difference of If inches.
The foot in the Orang however was i inch larger than the hand whereas in the Gorilla the hand Avas   inch larger than the foot  in the Chimpanzee the difference in this respect was f inch in favor of the foot.
The foot in the Orang however resembled superficially a hand much more than it does in the Gorilla.
Indeed the distinctness of hand and foot superficiall is more marked in the Gorilla than in the other anthropoids.
I found the thoracic abdominal and pelvic viscerae perfectly healthy.
The animal seemed to have died from congestion of the brain  there was also some cerebritis.
As the osteology of the Orang has been thoroughl described by Prof. Owen and others it will not be worth while for me to dwell on that part of its organization.
I will pass therefore to the muscular system and more particularly to that of the extremities as being the most interesting as compared with man.
Muscular Systems  In Prof. Bischoff 's paper on the Gorilla an excellent figure is given of the muscles of the face of the Orang from a preparation by Rudinger.
These muscles were described by Prof. Owen but not figured.
The same facial muscles are found in man and the Orang with the exception that there is but one zygomaticus possibly corresponding to the zygomaticus minor of man though on account of its size it may represent both the z3'gomaticus major and minor.
The facial muscles in the Orang are not as well differentiated as in man rather hanging together.
I noticed that the digastricus had only the posterior head.
There was nothing peculiar however about the sterno cleido mastoid omohyoid or the scaleni.
The omocervicalis or elevator claviculte passed from the transverse process of the atlas to the acromial end of the clavicle as I found it in the Chimpanzee and in the Gorilla.
The pectoralis major arose in three portions  the first from sternum and first intercostal space  the second from sternal part of thiixl fourth fifth and sixth ribs and the third from costal ' Proc.
of Acad of Nat.
Sciences Philadelphia 1878.
Proc.
of Acad of Nat.
Sciences Philadelphia 1879.
 Trans of Zool.
Society 1835.
 Beitrage Munich Abhand. 1879.
 Proc.
of Zool.
Society i 1830 p. 28. portion of fourth fifth sixth and seventh ribs.
This distinction in origin is partly visible even in man.
There was nothing noticeable about the pectoralis minor or subclavius supraspinati or teres.
The latissimus dorsi as in all monkeys gave off the slip the latissimo condyloides which however in the Orang scarcely reached the condyle and was pierced hy the ulnar nerve.
The biceps triceps and brachialis anticus were well developed and the external cutaneous nerve passed through the coracobracllialis as in man.
The anterior aspect of the forearm was quite human.
The pronator radii teres arose b two heads between which passed the median nerve.
The flexor carpi radialis and ulnaris and the palmaris longus were well developed.
The flexor sublimis did not differ from that of man.
The flexor profundus was rather separated into two portions one for the under and the other for the remaining fingers.
There was no trace of a flexor longus pollicis either as a distinct muscle or as a slip from the flexor profundus.
The abductor flexor brevis adductor and opponens pollicis abductor flexor brevis and opponens minimi digiti and the lumbricales were all present.
As regards the back of the forearm the supinator longus arose higher than in man.
The supinator brevis and extensor radialis longior and brevior extensor ossi metacarpi pollicis and exterior secundi internodii pollicis did not differ from those in man.
The absence of an extensor primi internodii pollicis was noticeable as was also the fact of the extensor indicis giving a slip to the middle finger and the extensor minimi digiti one to the ring finger making eight tendons supplying the back of the fingers with the four from the extensor communis digitorum.
The interossei were the same as in man.
Briefly' the upper extremity of the Orang in its muscles differed essentially from that of man in the absence of the flexus longus and primi internodii pollicis and in the presence of the additional tendons to the ring and middle fingers.
The Orang agreed with the Gorilla in not having a flexor longus pollicis but disagreed with it in having the pronator radii teres arising by two heads in the presence of a palmaris longus in the additional tendons for ring and middle fingers and in not having the extensor primi internodii pollicis.
As compared with the Chimpanzee the Orang agreed in reference to the pronator radii teres and palmaris longus but in the extensor ossi metacarpi pollicis being single and in the absence of the flexor longus pollicis as a slip from the profundus and in the presence of the additional extensor tendons it differed.
As might be expected from the elongated form of the pelvis and the absence of the round ligament of the hipjoint in the Orang the glutei muscles differ somewhat from those of man.
The glutseus magnus PI.
12 e in the Orang  not as large or as fleshy as its gluteus medius  is inserted together with the tensor vaginae femoris which is scantily developed if at all into the fascia lata of the thigh the glutieus medius being inserted into the great trochanter.
Parallel with the lower edge of the glutteus medius PI.
12 c is seen a small muscle rising from the edge of the great sciatic notch and inserted into the great trochanter PI.
12 b.
This muscle seems to correspond to part of the pyriformis in man the sacral portion of the muscle not being developed in the Orang.
The glutseus minimus is represented by a muscle arising from the external edge of the ileum and passing almost verticall downwards until inserted into the great trochanter close to the pyriformis PI.
12 a.
At first sight this muscle seems much displaced if it is the gluteus minimus but if one can imagine the ileum PI.
12 d in the Orang to be widened outwardly to the same extent as seen in man there would be little or nothing anomalous about the muscle.
From the position of the glutwus minimus in the Orang it would seem that this muscle would supplement to a certain extent the want of the ligamentum teres which it Avill be remembered is absent in this ape.
In the Chimpanzee there is so little that is peculiar about the gluteus minimus that I had no difficulty in identifying it and the same can be said of the Gorilla.
In the account of the Chimpanzee by TrailP however the glutreus minimus is described as a distinct new muscle the scansorius  the muscle I have described as pyriformis Traill regarded as the glutanis minimus the pyriformis according to Traill being absent.
Since then this socalled scansorius muscle has been referred to b Bischoff Owen Huxley and others as a distinct muscle.
With all deference to such eminent anatomists I cannot see any essential difference betAveen the scansorius of Traill and the glutaeus minimus in man. 1 Wernerian Transactions p. 18 1821.
 On looking up the literature upon the anatomy of the Orang I find t'liat in 1876 Prof Baruard o.
cit. considered the scansorius as being homologous with the glutaius minimus and mentioned in his paper that The obturators gemelli and qiiadratus femoris were well developed.
There was nothing peculiar about the muscles of the thigh either on the anterior or posterior surface  the rectus arose liowever only from the inferior spine of the ileum.
In the leg anteriorly I noticed the tibialis anticus divided into two tendons  otherwise the muscles were as in man.
The peroneus longus and brevis were well developed but there was no peroneus tertius.
The soleus as usual in monkey's had only the plantar head and there was no trace of a plantaris although according to Sandifort it is present.
The flexor longus digitorum supplied the perforating tendons for the second and fifth the flexor longus hallucis those for the third and fourth digits.
There was no slip from the longus hallucis for the big toe that muscle therefore except from its origin scarcely deserves that name.
The flexor brevis digitorum supplied the perforated tendons for the second and third toes.
Those for the fourth and fifth came off from the flexor longus digitorum.
The tendon for the fifth toe was not perforated.
There was a connecting slip between the third and fourth tendons.
The external head only of the flexor accessorius was pi'esent.
In addition to the abductor flexor brevis and adductor of the hallux there was a wellmarked opponens hallucis.
The lumbricales for the second and fifth digits came from the flexor longus digitorum those for the third and fourth digits from the flexor longus hallucis.
The abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti were well developed but there was no transversus pedis.
The interossei were like those of the hand Briefl as compared with man the leg and foot of the Orang difl'er in the absence of the peroneus tertius plantaris flexor longus hallucis and transversus pedis in the fibular origin of the soleus and external origin of accessorius onl in the distribution of the perforating and perforated tendons for the toes in the interossei and in the presence of an opponens for the big toe.
In this latter respect the Orang differs not only from man but from all the other monkeys and anthropoids the foot having a verj' handlike appearance as compared with that of the Gorilla and Chimpanzee.
The foot of the Orang differs further in the absence of a special Prof. Humphrey held essentially the same opinion.
I was not aware until I had finished my dissection of the views previously published by these anatomists and am glad to have been able independently to come to the same conclusion.
flexor for the big toe.
This is supplemented to a certain extent by the opponeus and in a parti' developed accessorius.
The perforated tendon for the fifth toe in the Gorilla came from the flexor longus hallucis whereas in the Chimpanzee and Orang it is supplied hy the tendon of the longus digitorum.
If Prof. Huxley's canon be accepted that the distinction between a hand and a foot consists in the latter possessing tarsal bones the peroneus longus and brevis the short extensor and short flexor muscles then the posterior extremity of the Orang terminates in a foot.
It appears to me however that the difference between the hand and foot in man the Gorilla Chimpanzee and the lower monkejs is greater than that observed between the corresponding members of the Orang Alimentary Canal etc.
 It is usually stated that the uvula is absent in the Orang and on looking into the mouth at first sight this appears to be the case as it does not hang down as in man between the pillars of the fances  nevertheless it exists.
I found it pointing directly backwards in a straight line from the posterior palatine spine.
It contained the azygos uvula
muscle.
Prof. Bischofl mentions also finding the uvula in the Orang The circumvallate papillae of the tongue are disposed in the form of a   as in man  I found this to be the case in the female Chimpanzeeof which I gave an account and also in a male which I had the opportunity recentl' of dissecting.
The salivar glands with their ducts were well developed the submaxillary being verlarge both relatively and absolutel'  as compared with man.
The stomach in the Orang PI.
ISjfig.
1 is not so human in its form as that of either the Gorilla or the Chimpanzee the cardiac portion twothirds of the stomach beinsf more elongated and constricted from the pyloric part which was tubular.
The greater curvature measured 6 inches the less 4.
The small intestine was 8 feet 4 inches in length the large 4 feet.
The constant presene of valvula
conniventes in the small intestine of the Orang appears even at the present day questionable b' some anatomists.
In speaking of these folds occurring in the Gorilla Bischoff refers to Owen not finding them in the Orang while they are said to exist by Saudifort.
Majer and Barkow.
As to his own opinion on the subject he expresses himself as folloAvs   Die beiden jetzt auf's Neue 1 Beitrage sur Gorilla p. 37  Op cit. p 57.
 Op cit. pp.
40 41 von mir untersiichten Diinndai'me cles Orangs aiis Dresden nnd aus der hiesioen Z00I02.
Sammlnnosowie der eines Zweiten Chimpanzee aus Dresden zeigen keine Spur der genannten Falten.
Ich halte nach alle diesem ihre Gegenwart beim Orang nnd Chimpanzee fur zweifelhaft  beim Gorilla wenn gleich in schwaeher Entwicklung fiir gewiss  individuelle Yerseheidenheiten sind doch in einem solchen Punekte nicht wahrscheinlich.
I foimd indications of valvuhie conniventes in the Orang but of the most rudimentary character as compared with man.
In places they run parallel with the long axis of the intestine PI.
14 fig.
2 then transversely as in man PI.
14 fig.
3 then again as at first and afterwards again transversel3 They are found in parts of the jejunum and ileum.
The valvulse conniventes I found very well developed in the male Chimpanzee PI.
14 fig.
4 but not at all in the female.
I noticed in the Orang the villi and solitary glands  the Peter's glands were very well developed.
I counted fifteen some of which measured 4 inches in length.
The coecum and ileocolic valve did not ditfer from the same parts in man.
The vermiform appendix attained a length of 6 inches absolutely and was relatively much larger than that of man reminding one of the condition of this structure in the human embryo.
As regards the large intestine the only noticeable peculiarities were the large size of the solitary glands and the fact that the mucous membrane of the ascending colon was thrown into wellmarked longitudinal folds with transverse connecting ones exhibi tingquite a reticulated appearance PI.
14 fig.
1.
This is not the case in the Chimpanzee.
The peritoneum was disposed as in man.
The transverse colon was connected with the stomach as was also the case in the Chimpanzee and Prof. Bischoff' noticed that this obtains also in the Gorilla.
As is well known the transverse colon in the monkeys can be raised entirely without drawing up with it the stomach with the exception sometimes of the Macacques in which I have noticed a slight peritoneal connection between pyloric part of stomach and colon indicating a beginning of a gastrocolic omentum 
I did not notice anything peculiar about the spleen or pancreas.
The quadrate lobe of liver was absent  the spigelian lobe however was very well developed  the hepatic duct opened at a little distance from the pancreatic.
I found in the small intestine five fine specimens of 1 Op.
cit. p. 39. the Ascaris lumhricoides and one in the large and in the coecum a Trichocephalus dispar.
I believe this is the first time these entozoa have been found in the same anthropoid.
According to Diesingi the Ti'ichocephahis is found in the Orang and Cobboldstates that Murie sent him aa Ascaris from the Chimpanzee.
Respiratory System.
 In the Orang as in the Gorilla and Chimpanzee particularly in the males the ventricles of the larjnx are prolonged into the socalled laryngeal pouches.
In 3' oung specimens of the anthropoids these pouches though not so well developed as in the adults can usually however be perfectly identified.
In dissecting m3 Orang after removing the skin in the cervical region I noticed what appeared to me to be the laryngeal pouches and by passing a tube into one of the ventricles of the larjnx the pouch of that side could be readily inflated.
On tracing however the anterior wall of the pouch dowuiward I noticed that it was attached to the front of the sternum and clavicle and on opening the pouch and following its posterior wall I found it attached to the back of the sternum and first rib.
Thus the interior of the jDouch corresponded with the space between the two lajers of the cervical fascia in man usually filled with fat and absorbent glands but in the Orang it is empty and communicating with the interior of the larynx.
The pouch was not lined with mucous membrane resembling the remaining fascia which was indeed continuous with it.
Supposing that mj dissection reallyrepresented the true relation of these parts then morphologicallyspeaking the larj'ngeal pouch in the anthropoids would be homologous with and replace the two lajers of the cervical fascia in man so familiar to the surgeon.
There was nothing especially noticeable about the vocal cords epiglottis or trachea.
The lungs PL 13 fig.
2 however were not divided into lobes as in the Gorilla and Chimpanzee.
Vascular System.
 I did not notice about the heart anything especially different from the human.
In reference to the origin of the vessels however the innominate gave off the left carotid and continuing an eighth of an inch then divided into the right carotid and right subclavian the left subclavian coming oflT separately from the aorta PI.
13 fig.
2.
In the Gorilla and male Chimpanzee I found the disposition of these vessels the same as in man which is the case in the Orang according to Sandifort.
In the female Chimpanzee there were two innominates a long and a  Helm. vol.
ii p. 534.
2 Entozoa p. 291. short one the latter dividing into left carotid and subclavian.
The arteries and veins of the extremities did not differ from those of the Gorilla and Chimpanzee.
I found in the Orang as in them the  long saphenous artery  accompanying the nerve and vein of same name.
The mesenteric vessels exhibited loops along the borders of intestine.
Genitourinarij Apparatus.
 The general appearance of these structures resembled strikingly those of man PL 15.
The kidne'measured 1 inches in length and exhibits only one papilla.
The ureters were 5 inches long.
The bladder was 2 inches in length and 1 in diameter.
The testicles measured  of an inch in length and were situated near the inguinal canal.
The cavity of the tunica vaginalis testes was shut off from the general peritoneal cavity.
The vas deferens was 4 inches in length the seminal vesicle 1 inch  the seminal duct was yery short.
The caput gallinaginis was well developed as was also the prostate.
The penis measured 2 inches in length the glans was of cylindrical shape.
There was no bone in the penis.
The Cowper's glands were relatively large.
Nervous System  The brain of the Orang has been figured by Tiedemann Sandifort Schroeder van der Kolk and Yrolik Gratiolet Kolleston etc.
On account however of the few illustrations extant and of the importance of the subject I avail myself of the opportunity of presenting several views of my Orang's brain Pi's 16 and 11 which was removed from the skull only a few hours after death.
The membranes were in a high state of congestion and a little of the surface of the left hemisphere had been disorganized by disease otherwise the brain was in good condition.
It weighed exactly 10 ounces.
The brain of tlie Orang in its oeneral contour resembled that of man more than those of either of the Chimpanzees which I examined.
In these the brain was more elonaated.
The general character of the folds and fissures in the brain of the Orang Chimpanzee and man are the same there are certain minor differences however in their disposition in all three.
The fissure of Silvius in the Orang runs up and down the posterior branch pursuing only a slightly backward direction the anterior branch is small.
The fissure of Rolando or central fissure quite apparent is however situated slightly more forward in the Orang than in man.
It differentiates the frontal from the parietal lobe.
The parietooccipital fissure is well marked bordered externally bj the first occipital fold it descends internally on the mesial side of the hemisphere separating the parietal from the occipital lobes.
In the Oraiig the parietooccipital fissure does not reach the calcarine being separated from it by the  deuxieme plis de passage interne  of Gratiolet or  untere innere ScheitelbogenWindung of Bischofl'.
I have noticed this separation as an anomaly more than once in man.
According to Bischoff this disposition obtains in the Gorilla and seems to be usual also in the Chimpanzee.
In the female Chimpanzee however on the left side I found the parietooccipital fissure passing into the calcarine as in man.
The frontal lobe is easily distinguished from the parietal by the fissure of Rolando and from the temporal by the fissure of Sjdvius.
In the Orang it is higher wider and more arched than in the Chimpanzee.
The anterior central convolution in front of the central fissure runs into the postcentral convolution above and below as in man.
It is difficult however to identify the three frontal convolutions seen in man and the Chimpanzee the frontal lobe of the Orang dividing ratlier into two convolutions the middle one being badly defined.
This is due somewhat to the length of the precentral fissure which is as long as the fissure of Rolando extending farther upward than in man.
There was nothing particularly noticeable about the base of the frontal lobe  on the mesial surface it ran into the parietal.
The part above the callosomarginal fissure in the Orang is not as distinctly divided into convolutions as in man though these are not constantly present even in all human brains.
The parietal lobe is separated from the frontal by the central fissure from the occipital and temporal incompletely by the parietooccipital and Sylvian fissures.
The posteriorcentral convolution is well defined.
The parietal fissure in the Orang is more striking than that of man resembling the Gorilla's  it is twice as long as the corresponding fissure in the Chimpanzee extending from the transverse occipital fissure as is sometimes the case in man almost into the fissure of Rolando.
It is unbridged and without a break and divides the parietal lobe completely into upper and lower parietal lobules.
The upper parietal lobule is bounded externally by the parietal fissure  posteriorly it is separated from the occipital lobe internally by the parietooccipital fissure  externall' it is continuous with the occipital lobe as the first occipital gyrus anteriorlj' it is sepa12 rated from the posterior central convolution more completely than in man by a fissure which runs parallel with the central fissure.
There is in the Orang also a fissure running parallel with the parietal which subdivides the upper parietal lobule into inner and outer portions.
The precuneus or the space on the mesial side of the parietal lobe between the parietooccipital fissures and the ascending branches of the callosomarginal is well defined.
The lower parietal lobule in the Orang divides naturally into the supramarginal and angular gyri.
The supramarginal fold curves around the upper end of the posterior branch of the fissure of Sylvius and runs into the superior temloral g3'rus.
The angular gyrus which is very evident arches around the first temporal fissure and becoming continuous with the second occipital fold passes then into the upper temporal gyrus.
The occipital lobe separated from the parietal internally by the parietooccipital fissure is continuous with upper parietal lobule through the first occipital gyrus and by the second occipital gyrus with the angular.
There are no sharp lines of demarkation between the occipital and temporal lobes.
In the occipital lobe of my Orang the transverse occipital fissure was present and received the parietal fissure.
The calcarine fissure was well marked but was separated in the Orang from the pai'ietooccipital fissure by the  deuxieme plis de passage interne  of Gratiolet the  untere innere ScheitelbogenWindung  of Bischofl The cuneus of the Orang is therefore somewhat different from that of man.
In man I have seen these two fissures separated as an anomal.
The calcarine passed into the hippocampal fissure so tliat in the Orang as in monkeys generally the gyrus fornicatus was separated from the hippocampal gyrus  whereas in man these convolutions are continuous.
This disposition has been noticed in the Hylobates in Ateles and in one Chimpanzee where the calcarine did not reach the hippocampal.
The first occipital gyrus is very well developed and as the late Professor Gratiolet observed is one of the most strildng convolutions in tlie brain of the Orang.
It rises so to the surface that the internal perpendicular fissure or external part of the parietooccipital fissure is almost entirely bridged over the operculum so characteristic of the monkey almost disappearing.
It is continuous with the upper parietal lobule arching around the parietooccipital fissure.
This convolution comes to the surface in the H3'lolates and Ateles almost to the same extent as in the Orang but it is more developed in the latter than in the Chimpanzee.
It is called also the premier plis de passage externe by Gratiolet the  obere innere ScheitelbogenWindung'' by Bischott the ' lirst annectant gyrus' Xy Huxley and  first bridging convolution by Turner.
The second occipital convolution connects the occipital lobe with the angular gyrus.
In my Orang it was partl concealed bjthe first occipital.
It was not as superficial as in man.
The third occipital gj'rus is continuous with that part of tlie temporal lobe below the first temporal fissure.
I noticed also in my Orang the  quatrieme plis de passage  of Gratiolet.
On the mesial side of the occipital lobe in ny Orang was well seen the  deuxieme 'plis de passage interne of Gratiolet the  untere innere ScheitelbogenWindung  of BischofF which separates the ealcarine from the parietooccipital fissure  and in both the Orang and Chimpanzee more especially on the left side I had no difficult' in recognizing the  premier plis de passage interne '' of Gratiolet its convexity turning inwards while that of the first occipital gyrus or the  premier plis de passage externe turns outward.
These two convolutions the first occipital gyrus and the  premier plis de passage interne in my Orang were continuous.
They are regarded as one by Bischott' forming his  obere innere ScheitelbogenWindung but as two b Gratiolet constituting his  premier plis de passage externe et interne.
The temporal lobe in the Orang is much less convoluted than in man or even in the Chimpanzee.
Tlie first temporal fissure and first temporal convolution are well marked but the second and third are badly defined.
The fusiform and lingual lobes are separated b the inferior occipitotemporal fissures the collateral fissures of Huxley.
The island of Reil was perfectly covered in both the Chimpanzee and the Orang by the operculum but was not convoluted in my Orang.
The surface in places was slightlroughened.
I noticed however three or four convolutions in the Chimpanzee.
On making a section of the left hemisphere of the Orang I noticed that the corpus callosum was relativeh smaller than in man but that the ventricle exhibited an anterior middle and posterior cornu the corpus striatum trenia semicircularis thalamus opticus and fornix were well developed the hippocampus major with corpus fimbriatum were perfectly evident and the hippocampus minor larger relatively than in man.
I did not see a trace of the emmenentia collateralis  this is often however absent in man.
The cerebellum in my Orang was relatively larger than that of man but smaller than that of either the Chimpanzees I have dissected and was just covered and no more by the posterior lobes of the cerebrum.
This relation is still retained in my Orang though the brain has been lying in alcohol for three months since it was taken out of the chloride of zinc in which it was placed until the pia mater could be removed.
During this period it has been subject to the conditions such as the want of the support of the membranes the eftect of pressure etc. urged by Gratiolet Huxley Rolleston Marshall etc. as sufficient to explain why after death the cerebellum was uncovered by the cerebrum in the Orang and Chimanzee as held by Owen Schroeder van der Kolk and Vrolik and BischotT.
Every anatomist knows that the brain after removal from the skull especiall' without the membrane if left to itself very soon loses its shape.
It is absolutely necessary therefore to examine the brain in situ and after removal from skull to place it in some hardening fluid in which it will float.
Even with these precautions through the change of the surroundings shrinkage etc. the brain is alwa3's somewhat altered.
It happens however that I have had lying in alcohol for some 3'ears a number of human and monkey brains.
Among the latter examples of the genera Gebus Ateles Mavacus Cynocephalus Cercopithecus etc. taken out of the skull suflBciently carefully but preserved in the rudest manner Avithout any regard to the above precautions.
Now while all of these brains have somewhat lost their natural contour the' are not so changed that in a single one human or monkey do I find the cerebellum uncovered by the cerebrum and in every instance the posterior lobes overlap the cerebellum to a greater extent than I find is the ease in my Orang.
If the cerebrum and cerebellum in the Orang and Chimpanzee invariably bear the same proportion to each other as they do in man and the monkeys why should not the brain of an Orang or Chimpanzee after lying in alcohol for some years exhibit the cerebellum covered ly the cerebrum as in them
Why sliould it be necessary to replace the brain of the Chimpanzee or the Orang in the skull to make plaster casts etc. if there is no difference between their brains and those of man and the monkeys for there is no necessit' of having recourse to such measures to prove that the cerebellum is covered in the latter
In the account I gave of the female Chimpanzee' I stated that I found the cerebellum uncovered.
I had the opportunit a short time since of verifjnng that statement in the male noticing in 'itu that the cerebellum was uncovered b the posterior lobes.
This was found to be the case b Mr. Arthur Browne the Superintendent of the Phila.
Zool.
Garden in a third Chimpanzee which died there.
With all deference to Prof Marshall's  photograph of a plaster cast of the brain of a Chimpanzee and however it may truthfully represent the relations of the cerebellum in his specimen I must say that it would be simply monstrous if accepted as an illustration of either of mine and with profound respect for Prof. Huxley's opinion regarding the interior of the skull being a guide for the determination of the proportion between posterior lobe and cerebellum I find it an3'thing but a safe one as regards the anthropoid apes.
For the space between posterior lobes of brain and dura mater and bone both posteriorly and laterally I find very variable in situ due to the state of the blood vessels and amount of fluid in arachnoid and subarachnoid cnvities.
In speaking of the Gorilla Prof. Bischotf  observes p. 100  Das es bei ersterem am wenigsten von oben Hinterlappen der grossen Hemisphiire bedecktwird und bei der Betrachtung des Schiidel gewiss von oben mit seinem hinterern Rande sichtbar wird.
And in reference to the Chimpanzee p. 95  Die Hinterhauptslappen des grossen Gehirns bei diesem Affen wie bei dem Menschen das kleine Gehirn iiberzogen und von oben fast ganz bedecken.'
And Vrolik states p. Y of the Orang   Ce lobe posterieur ne se prolonge pas autant que chez I'homme  il ne recourve pas si bien le cervelet du moins il ne cache pas completement surtout vers les cotes.
The fact of the cerebellum being covered by the posterior lobes in my Orang and that figured bGratiolet and but slightly uncovered in that of Vrolik's is no more strange than that Bischoff should find it covered in one Hylobates and Prof. Huxle'  having stated it to be uncovered in another.
I did not observe anything particularly noticeable about the 1 Proceed of Acad. 1879.
 Natural History Review 1861.
 Man's place in Nature p. 97.
 Das Gehirn des Gorillas 1877.
 Gehirn des Chimpanzee 1871. 
Amsterdam Verslagen Deel 13 1862. '
Beitrage zur Hylobates 1870.
 Vertebrate Anatomy p. 411. pons or medulla except that in the latter the olivary bodies are not as distinct as in man.
As regards the peripheral nervous system it was essentially the same as the human.
As the brain of the Orang which I have just endeavored to describe is the property of the Academy the animal having been bought and presented by Mr. Wm.
S. Yaux and as it was desirable to preserve it in its present condition I could not make use of it to examine the structure minutely.
I would refer those interested in the histology of the anthropoid brain to Dr. Spitzka's paper. What can be inferred from the general oiganization of the Orang as to its relation to the other primates 
The Orang like man has twelve ribs whereas the Gorilla and Chimpanzee have thirteen  on the other hand the carpal and tarsal bones are nine in number in the Orang while the Chimpanzee and Gorilla agree with man in having eight.
The upper extremity of the Orang resembles that of the Gorilla in the absence of the flexor longus pollicis.
The Chimpanzee and man are alike in this respect at least the slip from the flexor longus digitorum in the former is functionally a flexor longus.
In the absence of a flexor longus hallucis and in the presence of an opponens hallucis the Orang difl'ers from man the anthropoids and all the monkeys.
The great bloodvessels arise from the arch of aorta in the Gorilla and man in the same way  the same disposition is usually seen in the Chimpanzee rarely in the Orang.
The lungs in the Orang are not divided into lobes as in the Gorilla Chimpanzee and man.
The stomach in the Gorilla and Chimpanzee is human in its form  in the Orang however it is quite different.
The peritoneum in the Gorilla Chimpanzee and Orang is like that of man  in the lower monkevs it is different.
The brain of the Orangin its globular form in the cerebellum being usually covered by the cerebrum and in the development of the first occipital gyrus resembles man more than that of the Gorilla and Chimpanzee.
On the other hand the frontal and temporal lobes in the Orang are not as much convoluted as in the Chimpanzee and still less than in man and the island of Reil is not convoluted at all at least in my Orang.
It will be seen from the above illustrations of which many others might be given that the Gorilla and man in some respects agree with and differ from the Chimpanzee and Orang  while 1 Op.
cit.
from other points of view the Orang approaches man more closelj'than either the Gorilla or Chimpanzee and that as regards certain muscles man and the lower monkeys agree in having them while they are absent in the anthropoids.
From these facts we majreasonabl infer that the ancestral form of man Avas intermediate in character as compared with the living anthropoids or lower monkeys agreeing with them in some respects and differing from them in others.
The Orang is closely allied to the Gribbons the Chimpanzee to the Macacques and the gap between these and the Senviopithecus is bridged over by the Mesojnthecus of Graudr.
Until' however the paleontologist will have procured more material like that from Pikermi and interpreted it as ably it will seem to me premature to oifer any detailed genealogical tree of the Primates.
DESCRIPTION OF A NEW CRUSTACEAN FROM THE UPPER SILURIAN OF GEORGIA WITH REMARKS UPON CALYMENE CLINTONI.
BY ANTHONY W. VOGDES U. S. A. Calymene rostrata Vogdes.
This species differs in one aspect from the usual forms classed under the genus Calymene in having a projecting process arising directly from the cephalic shield in front of the glabella and in this respect resembles Homalonotus rhinotrojns of Angelin a species which has been referred by Salter in his monograph of British Trilobites to H. Knightii.
Salter says the front margin 'a1is of most singular structure and may be described as tricuspid.
The narrow edge is so deeply indented and at the same time folded that the front portion overhangs the rostral shield forms one projecting angle flanked by two smaller projections Calymene rostrata Vogdes.
The glabella and fixed cheeks Opposite the axial furrows exactly like the showing the projecting pro.
   .
  r. .
cess.
salient and reentering angles of a fortification.
Our species has only the central triangular projection the margins of which are deflected and the marginal border unites and forms a triangular projection directly in front and on the median line.
The following characteristics are drawn from three specimens consisting of the glabella and fixed cheeks and many pgidia found associated with them at the same locality.
The glabella is convex and widens out posteriorly beingcontracted in front  the sides are marked with three lobes the basal one large the middle lobe nearly spherical the third is somewhat obscurely defined.
The fixed cheeks are separated from the glabella by deep dorsal furrows but opposite the eyes the furrows are restricted hy a buttress thrown across it nearly touching the middle side lobes  the cheeks are gibbous but not elevated above the glabella they are narrow along the sides of the glabella and widen out laterally from the eyes.
The facial sutures cut the posterior angles of the head but anteriorl from the eyes these lines run almost straight with a slight tendencoutward and pass over the margin.
The neck furrow is continued nearly to the posterior angles of the head.
The frontal limb is triangnlar in outline and prolonged into a prominent projection the bourrelet of the limb is defined by a triangular ridge which forms the base of the projection.
The projection is formed by the thickening of the crust and by the union of the outer marginal borders along the median line it is pointed and has its sides deflected.
The space between the front of the glabella and the base of the projection is somewhat depressed.
The p3'gidium is obtusel triangular with the front greatly arched in uncrushed specimens but this character seems to be confined to the mediumsized specimens  the larger forms are not so much arched and correspond in this respect to typical pygidia of G. hlumenbachii.
The axis occupies along the anterior border about onethird of the width of the tail and gradually tapers posteriorly into an obtuse point  it is marked with about eight or nine articulations the anterior one being slightly arched forwards but the others are extended almost straight rig.
2. across it.
The dorsal furrows are well defined.
The lateral lobes are marked with five pairs of ribs four of which are grooved and double halfway up  they are contracted along the dorsal furrows but widen out laterally.
The ribs curve caiymene rostrata  Vogdes.
The pygidownwards and backwards and are separated dium usually found associated with the from each other by welldefined grooves the head.
last pair unite and form a ridge extending around the posterior termination of the axis.
Geological Position.
 Clinton Group Taylor's Ridge near Catoosa Station  and also at Dug Gap Georgia.
Among the trilobite specimens wbicli I have collected in Georgia there are three movable cheeks and one pygidium showing a strong resemblance to the same parts of Galymene Glintoni as figured by Prof. Hall in Pal.
N. Y. vol.
ii pi.
61 a fig.
5.
These fragments were found associated with two glabella having characteristics not shown by the illustrations of the species just referred to therefore for the purpose of comparison I carried the specimens to the American Museum and through the courtesy of Prof. Whitfield was enabled to study the trilobites found in the Clinton Group of New York.
The Georgia forms are almost identical with those of New York but show some lYS 1880.
Fis.
3. variations from the typical C. Clint oni  I shall therefore describe these fragments.
Calymene Clintoni Vanuxem.
Glabella slightly convex the base broad so as to form a nearly equilateral triangle.
The sides are marked with three lobes the posterior one being twice as large as the middle lobe but the anterior one is illdefined.
The dorsal furrows are deep.
The occipital ring triangular in front and narrowing out laterall'.
The frontal limb is broad and equal to half the length of the glabella and arched in front.
It is worthy of remark that this character is not common to the minute glabella found in the same beds.
The fixed cheeks have a buttress thrown across them extending along the sides of the glabella but this does not elevate them above it.
The movable cheeks are triangular in outline and posteriorly extended into spines and correspond to tliose figured by Prof. Hall Pal.
N. Y. vol.
ii pi.
66 a fig.
5 c. The are convex laterally along their inner half and grooved near the outer margin which is defined by a raised border.
The pj'gidium is Vanuxem.
The triangular in outline and resembles the figure of glabella and fixed  ' '  .
cheeks showingthe this part given by Prof. Hall Pal.
N. Y. vol.
ii pi.
66 a fig.
5 a d except in size.
The axis is marked with about eight articulations.
The lateral lobes are not marked with ribs as usual in Calymene and in this respect the pygidium bears some resemblance to that of C. arago and C. salteri two European forms found in the Lower Silurian and described bRousault in 1849.
Geological Position.
 Clinton Group Catoosa Calymene Clintoni Station also in the Hematitic bed at Dug Gap Vanuxem.
The movable cheek.
Calymene Clintoni wide Irontal limb.
Fig.
4.
Geox'gia.
CAECINOLOGICAL NOTES No.
3. REVISION OF THE GENUS OCYPODA.
BY J. S. KINGSLEY.
The following paper is based on the Collections of the Academy.
I have observed the rule adopted in previous papers of following the locality from which I have seen specimens hy an exclamation point.
In all other cases the name of the person who has reported a species from any place follows that of the locality.
The same conservative spirit which pervades m paper on the  Fiddler Crabs  Gelasimi will be found in this.
Many of the characters given by authors prove to be of no specific value but I liave not ventured to unite forms unless I had specimens which corresponded to each nominal species.
OCYPODA Fabiicius.
Cancer I. c Fabr.
Ocypoda Fabr. Suppl.
Eut.
Syst.. 347 1798  Edw. Hist.
Nat.
Crust. 11 p. 41 1837j  Dana U. S. Ex.
Ex.
Crust. p. 324 1853.
Carapax transverse rhomboidal or nearly square.
Eyes stout the cornea occupjing the larger portion.
Meros of external maxillipeds shorter than ischium.
Chelipeds unequal.
In many species there is a stridulating organ composed of a row of tubercles on the inner surface of the palm which by being drawn across a ridge on the ischium of the cheliped produces a noise.
 1.
Ocular pedicels prolonged beyond the cornea as a spine or style.
1.
0. ceratophthalma Fabr.
Cancer ceratoplithalmus Pallas Splcelegia p. 83 PI.
V f. 171772.
Ocypoda ceratophthalma Fabr. 1. c 347 1788  Latreille Hist.
Crust et Ins. vi 47 18034  Encyc.
Meth. x Pi.
274 f. 1  Lamarck Hist.
Aulmaux sans Vert. v 252 1818  Desmarest Consid.
sur le Crustaces 121 PI.
XII f. 1 1825  Edw. Hist.
Nat.
Crust. 11 p. 48 1837 III.
Edit.
Regne Animal PI.
XVII f. 1  Ann.
Scl.
Nat. in xvlii p. 141 1852j  Krauss S. African Crust. p. 41 1843  Btimpsou Proc.
Phlla.
Acad. 1858 p. 100  Hess Archlv.
fiir Naturgeschicbte XXXI 143 1865 Martens Verhandl.
Zool Bot.
Gesellsch.
Wlen 1806 p. 381  Heller Relse Novara Crust. p. 42 1867  Hllgendorf In v. Decken's Relse Crust. p. 82 1867  A.
M.Edw. Nouv.
Arch du Mus. Ix p. 270 1873.
Cancer cursor Herbst. PI.
I f. 89 1790.
Ocypoda brevicornis Edw. Hist.
Crust. ii 48 1837  Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xviii 142 1852  Dana U. S. Ex.
Ex.
Crust. p. 326 PI.
XX f. 3 1853.
Ocypoda brevicornis var longicornuta Dana 1. c 337 PI.
XX f. 4 1853.
Ocypoda agyptica Gerstaecker Archiv.
fur Naturgescliichte xxii 134 1856  Heller Sitzungsbericbte Wien Akad. xliii p. 361 1861  Hoffmann Recli.
Fauna Madagascar Crust. p. 14 1874 teste Zool.
Record  Miers Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist. V ii 409 1878.
Carapax nearly square granulate front strongly deflexed orbits sinuate oblique the lateral angles being far behind the front.
These angles are nearly right angles.
Orbits with an indistinct fissure below.
Eyes terminated with a st3de which in most cases is long and cylindrical extending far beyond the orbits.
In the young however it is small and in some cases even wanting  that form when small and conical characterizes the nominal species brevico7mis  maxillipeds granulate.
Meros of larger cheliped with the margins armed with spiniform tubercles more prominent on the anterior margins.
Carpus granulate with internally one or two teeth.
Hand externally acute tuberculate serrate below the inner surface with scattered tubercles.
Stridulating ridge at some distance from the base of the fingers straight and composed of rounded tubercles.
Ambulatory feet with acute granules which exhibit a tendency to arrange themseh'es in rugfe.
fatal 
E. Wilson  Mauritius 
Guerin's Collection  Anjir Ternate Amhoina Adenare Zanzibar Benkula Hilgendorf  Sandwich Is. Tahiti Bonin Loo Choo Hong Kong Ouisma Stm.
 Egypt Mauritius Bombay Australia  Edw. 
 Ceylon and Nicobars Heller  Madagascar Hoffmann  Tongatabu Dana.
A specimen collected by the Wilkes Expedition '' East Indies  has the carapax intermediate between this species and cursor.
The ocular styles are wanting.
MilneEdwards' figure in the Regne Animal is diff'erent from any specimens that I have seen.
I agree with Kossmann in considering segyptica as but a variety of ceratophthalma.
2.
0. platytarsis Edw.
Ocypoda platytarsis Edw. Ann.
Sci Nat. Ill xviii p. 141 1853  Heller Reise Novara Crust. p. 43 1867.
Carapax wider than is usual in this genus and covered with large granules.
Superior margin of orbit sinuate the external angles rounded  sides parallel about onefourth of their length.
Orbits with an indistinct fissure below.
Eyes spined as in ceratophthalma teste Edw. the single specimen I have seen has the ejes broken.
External maxillipeds granulate  meros of larger cheliped with the upper margin produced and dentate the lower spined the posterior with transverse granular rugae carpus granulate  hand with large granules serrate below stridulating ridges carved and composed of crowded granules.
Ambulatorsfeet with rugre and subspiniform tubercles dactyli broad.
Pondiclierry  Guerin's Collection labelled by Guerin Ocypoda platytarsis Edw. Cat.
Mus. Paris and probably one of the original specimens.
Tahiti and Nicobars Heller.
3.
0. urvillei Guerin.
Ocypoda urvillei Guerin Voyage Cofiuille Crust p. 9 PI.
I f. 1 1836 Edw.
Hist.
Crust. H p. 49 1837 Ann.
Sci.
Nat.
HI xviii p. 141 1852 Owen in Beechey's Voyage Crust. p. 80 1839 Dana U. S. Ex.
Exp.
Crust. 328 PI.
XX f. 5 1852.
Carapax wider than long superior margin of orbit sinuate angles acute.
Ejes moderate ocular spines short extending only to angles of orbit.
Meros of larger cheliped rounded above its two other margins denticulate.
Carpus with a strong internal spine.
Hand externally granulate serrate above and below  the stridulating ridge nearly straight a little remote from the fingers and extending from the lower margin of the hand twothirds of the wa' to the upper.
Guerin.
Tau'i Guerin  Me Bouron Edw.
 Sanduoich Is.
Dana.
4.
0. macrocera Edw.
Ocypoda macrocera Edw.
Hist.
Nat.
Crust. II 49 1837 Ann.
Sci.
Nat.
IV xviii p. 142 1852 Heller Novara Crust. p. 142 tl8G7.
Orbits wide oblique angle obtuse ejes with a spine as in 0. ceratophthahna.
Larger hand very short broad and a little spinose above  its palmar portion broader than long.
The fingers of the smaller hand lamellate and very broad at their extremities.
Ambulatory feet roughened above.
Edw.
E. Indies Pondiclierry 
Brazil Edw.
 Tahiti Nicobars Heller.
5.
0. gaudichaudi Edwards et Lucas.
Ocypoda gaudichaudi Edw.
et Lucas in D'Orbigny's Voyage Crust. p. 26 PI.
XI f. 4 1843' Edw.
Ann.
Sci.
Nat.
Ill xviii 142 1832 Nicollet in Gay's Chili Zool.
Ill p. 163 1849 Stimpson Ann.
N.Y. Lye.
Nat.
Hist. VII p. 61 1859  Smith Rep. Peab.
Acad.
Sci. Ill p. 91 1871  Streets Proc.
Phila.
Acad. 1872 p. 240 Carapax longitudinallstrongly arcuate distal portion of front nearl vertical.
Superior border of orbit sinuate internally its external threefourths nearly straight and directed slightl backwards.
Lateral angles nearly right angles the sides behind them being concave for about a fifth of the length of the carapax  oi'bits with a deep median fissure below.
Eyes with a short conical stjde reaching to or slightl beyond the angle of the orbit.
External maxillipeds nearly smooth or with a few inconspicuous granules.
Meros of larger cheliped with the upper and lower margins spinotuberculate the posterior with transverse rugaj.
Carpus granulate  hand subspinose above finely serrate below internally granulate and with a wellmarked transverse stridulating ridge fingers lamellate the extremities truncate.
Chili  Guerin  Panama 
Capt.
Field and McNiel Pliila.
Acad.
 Gulf of Fonseca 
McNiel Peab.
Acad.
 CallaoE6.vf.
et Lucas  Valparaiso Dana.
6.
0. fabricii E Iw.
Oeipodafabricii 'Edw. Hist.
Nat.
Crust. 11 p. 47 1837 Ann.
Sci.
Nat.
XVIII p. 143 1853 Hilgendorf in Decken's Reise Crust. 83 PI.
Ill f. 1 1867.
Carapax convex finely granulate front strongly deflexed orbits strongl' sinuate  lateral angles acute and some distance posterior to the base of the rostrum  sides parallel for about a third of the lengtli of the carapax.
Orbits witliout emargination below  e3'es with a short conical style not reaching beyond the orbital angle.
Anterior margin of meios of larger cheliped crenulate distally spinose posterior margin rounded rugose.
Carpus granulate as is the outside of the hand  inner surface of the hand polished with minute scattered granules  stridulating ridge straight composed of small closelj'' set granules  lower margin of hand finely serrate  fingers of moderate length.
Joints of ambulatory feet with transverse rugoe.
Australia 
E. Wilson Natal 
E. Wilson  Oceanica Edw.
 Zanzibar Hilgendorf 7.
0. cursor.
Cancer cursor Linn. Syst.
Nat.
Edit. xii p. 1039 1766.
Ocypoda ippeus Olivier Voyage p. 334 PI.
XXX f. 1 1807 Savigny Egypt PI.
I f. 1 Lamarck An.
sans Vert. v p. 353 1817 Desm. Consid.
Crust. p. 131 1835 Edw. Hist.
Crust. ii p. 47 1837 Moseley Notes by a Naturalist on the Challenger pp.
4849 woodcut 1879.
Ocypoda cursor DeHaan Fauna Japonica Crust. p. 89 Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xviii p. 143 1853 Stm. Proc.
Phila.
Acad. 1858 p. 100 Heller Crust.
S. Europa p. 99 1863.
Carapax arcuate front strong'
depressed.
Upper margin of orbits but slightly sinuate and nearly transverse.
Lateral angles acute the sides converging posteriorly making the carapax widest at the angles.
Orbits below with a slight median fissure.
Ejes terminated bj' a short conical style armed with pencil of hairs.
Meral joint of cheliped with the spines and rugse much less prominent than in 0. ceratophthalma.
Carpus internally' with a denticulated tooth.
Hands small externally with depressed granules the lower margin finely serrate the upper rounded and without spiniform tubercles.
Internally the hand is nearly smooth except below where there are granules similar to those of the outside.
The stridulating ridge is ver' near the fingers and is crossed by numerous fine striae.
The propodal joints of the ambulator' feet spined below the dactyli of the second pair hair3 Senegal
Guerin
 Syria Egypt Edw.
 Cape Verdes Auct.
 Greece Guerin.
This is probabl' the species described by Hasselquist Iter Palestinum p. 433 1T57 under the name Cancer anomalus but he gives many characters which will appl' to no known decapod and so to avoid confusion I refrain from applying his name to this species.
McLeay in Smith's Zoology of South Africa mentions 'Ceratophthalma cursor DeHaan an expression not to be found in the pages of that Dutch Carcinologist.
8.
0. ryderi Nov. Carapax coarsel granulate the upper margins of the orbits sinuate transverse lateral angles acute sides arcuate the carapax being widest at the anterior third as in 0. arenaria the lateral margins anteriorly finely serrate.
Eyes not reaching the extremities of the orbits terminated by a minute spine.
Chelipeds like those of 0. arenaria  ambulatory feet roughened by subspiniform granules.
Natal
E. Wilson.
This species is closely allied to the Ocypoda arenaria of the coasts of America but is readily separated by the ocular spines and the oranulations on the ambulatorv feet.
It is dedicated to m friend John A. Ryder of the Academy of Natural Sciences of PhiladeliDhia.
 II.
Eyes without an ocular spine.
9.
0 arenaria Sny.
Cancer arenarius Catesby History of the Carolinas ii PI.
35 1731 and 1771.
Cancer quadratus Fabr. Ent.
Syst. ii p. 439 1793.
Ocypoda quadraia Fab. Suppl. p. 847 1798 Bosc.
Edit. 1 i p. 194 teste Auct.
Edit. II i p. 247 1828 Latr. Hist.
Crust et ' Ins. vi p. 49 18034.
Ocypoda arenaria Say Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. i p. 69 1817 Edw. Hist.
Nat.
Crust. ii p. 44 PI.
XIX f. 1314 1837 DeKay N. Y. Fauna Crust. p. 13 1841 Gibbes Proc.
Am.
Assoc iii p. 180 1851 Gerstilcker Arch fiir Naturg. xxii p. 36 1856  Guerin in La Sagra's Hist.
Cuba Crust. p. 7 1857 Martens Arch fiir Naturges. xxxviii p. 103 1872 Smith.
U. S. Fish Coram.
Report for 187172 p. 545 1875 Kingsley Proc.
Phila.
Acad. 1878 p. 322.
Ocypoda albicans Latr. Encyc.
Meth. X PI.
285 f. 1 after Catesby vix 0. albicans Bosc.
Ocypoda rhombea Edw. Hist.
Nat.
Crust. ii p. 46 1837 Ann.
Sci Nat. Ill xviii p. 143 1852 Gibbes 1. c p. 180 1851 Dana U.S. Ex.
Exp.Crust.p.322Pl.XIXf.81852HellerReiseNovara Crust. p. 42 1867 Smith Trans.
Conn.
Acad. ii p. 135 1870 Streets Proc.
Phila.
Acad. 1873 p. 240.
Monolepis inermis Say 1. c p. 57 Megalops.
Carapax convex gi'anulate above front but little deflexed  lateral angles of carapax acute extending as far forward as the middle of the front.
Lateral margin crenulate arcuate the carapax being widest at the anterior third.
Orbits below with spiniform tubercles and occasionally a distinct emargination.
Eyes with the extremities rounded and not reaching to the extremity of the orbit.
Chelipeds with spines and tubercles  the meros with the upper and lower margins spined the posterior rounded and crossed by tubercular rugaj.
Carpus with the tubercles obsolete above but pronounced near the margins the inner margin armed with one or more strong spiniform teeth.
Hands tuberculate the upper margin spined the lower serrate.
A tubercular stridulating ridge on the inside near the fingers.
Fingers strongly inflexed.
Ambulatory feet compressed hairy their sides smooth the upper portion margined and crossed by transverse rugse.
o  There were at least two editions of Catesby published bearing dates respectively as above and as the second is postLinnean the names employed by him must hold.
I think that another edition exists in the libraiy of the Essex Institute at Salem Mass. the date of which is between those quoted above but I have nothing at hand by which to decide the matter.
Young specimens less than 10 mm.
broad have the lateral angle further back than in the adult while the spines of the chelipeds are wanting or but faintly indicated.
The 0. albicans of Bosc Lamarck and Desmarest has the eyes terminated by a style a feature I have never observed in anspecimen of 0. arenaria.
The locality given is South Carolina.
The 0. rhombea of Fabricius is not this species as his expression  Carpus ut7'inque unidentatis manibus sublaevis  will not apply to this form but agrees better with 0. forcUmana.
Fabricius gives no localityfor his specimens.
The Brazilian forms rhombea Auct.
show no differences from northern specimens.
I haAe seen specimens from over thirtlocalities embraced in the limits of Great Egg Harbor N. J.
Says types to Rio Janeiro Brazil and also specimens from the west coast of Mexico Dr. W. H. Jones.
10.
0. convexus Quoy and Gaimard.
Ocypoda convexus Quoy et Gaimard Yoy.
Uranie Zool. iii p. 535 PI.
LXXII f. 2 1828 Edw. Hist.
Crust. ii p. 49 1837j.
Carapax granulate sides arcuate front deflexed orbits sinuate lateral angles behind the base of the rostrum acute.
Meros internall' entire distally tuberculate  carpus tnberculate its inner surface with a bifid tubercle.
Hands cordate externally granulate serrate above and below.
This brief description is taken from the figure of MM.
Quo' and Gaimard.
I have never seen the species.
It is said to have come from Australia.
11.
0. cordimana Desm.

Ocypoda rhombea Fabr. Suppl.
Eut.
Syst. p. 348 1798.
Ocypoda cordimana Desm Consid.
sur les Crustaces p. 121 1825 Edw. Hist.
Nat.
Crust. ii p. 45 1837 Ann.
Sci.
Nat.
Ill xviii p. 143 1852 Jacquinot et Lucas Voy.
Astrolabe et Zelee p. 64 Heller Reise Novara Crust. p. 42 1867 A. M.
Edw. Nouv.
Arch.
Mus. ix p. 271 1872.
Ocypoda rhombea 
Desmarest 1. c. p. 122 Randall Jour.
Phila.
Acad. viii p. 123.
Ocypoda pallidula Jacquinot et Lucas 1. c PI.
VI f. 4.
Ocypoda laevis Dana U. S. Expl.
Exped. Crust. p. 325 PI.
XX f .
2 1852.

Ocypoda convexa Stm. Proc.
Phila.
Acad. 1858 p. 100.
Carapax arcuate evenh' granulate.
Front strongly deflexed.
Orbits sinuate above  lateral angles acute but not extending as far forward as the base of the front.
Sides in the adult slightly 13 arcuate but iu the young the are parallel or even concave converging behind.
Eyes without st3liform process and extending nearly or quite to the orbital angle.
Meros of chelipeds with its anterior margin crenulate in the young in the adult with spinifonn tubercles.
Carpus externally granulate.
Hand short broad cordate granulate internally and externally its lower margin serrate the stridulating ridge nearly obsolete.
Fingers short compressed the thumb slightly hooked at the extremity.
Meral joints of the ambulatory feet with transverse rugae.
Carpal and propodal joints similarly roughened and covered with a short pubescence.
New Zealand 
Mauritius 
Guerin  Australia 
E. Wilson Sandwich Is.

J. K. Townsend  Tahiti A. Garrett  Mozambique and Zanzibar Hilgendorf  Red Sea Manilla Nicobars Heller  Hong Kong Loo Choo Stm. 
 Japan Edw..
The following are not true members of the genus  0. angulatus Latr.
 Gonoplax angulatus.
0. aurantia Bosc.
ex Herbst  Thelphusa aurantia.
0. carnifex Latr.
ex Herbst  Cardiosoma carnifex.
0. hcterochelos Bosc.
 Gelasimus heterochelos.
0. hispana Bosc.
ex Herbst  Sesarma sp.
0. hyJrodromus Latr.
ex Herbst  Thelphusa hydrodromus.
0. longimana Latr.
 Gonoplax rhomboidalis.
0. viaracoani Latr.
 Gelasimus maracoani.
0. macrocheles Bosc.
 
Macrophthalmus sp.
Q. pugillalor Bosc.
 Gelasimus pug illat or.
O. quadrata Bosc.
 Sesama sp.
0. rufopunctata Latr.
ex Herbst  Trapezia rufopunctata.
0. senex Latr.
ex Fabr.
 Thelphusa sp.
0. teirago7ion Bosc.
ex Herbst  Gelasimus tetragonon.
0. tridens Latr.
ex Fabr.
 
Pachygrapsus sp 0. vocans Latr.
 Gelasimus sp.
I have not been able to identify O. granulata Bosc.
Edit ii p. 247.
0. viacleayana Hess Archiv.
fiir Naturgesch. XXXI p 143 PI.
VI f. S 1865.
Australia.
O. unispinosa Rafinesque Precis de decouvertes Semiologiques p. 21 No.
35 1814.
CAKCINOLOGICAL NOTES No.
IV. SYNOPSIS OF THE GRAPSID.ffi.
BY J. S. KINQSLEY.
The following paper is a continuation of my studies of the Catometopa contained in the Museum of the Academjof Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
In it I have endeavored to embrace every known species of the family with sufficient references to their geographical distribution.
To aid in the identifications of species I have compiled anal3'tical tables for most of the genera but descriptions are given of onlthose species of which I have examined specimens.
I have reduced considerably the number of nominal species but believe that I am fully wananted in relegating to synon3'my mau socalled species founded on size color geographical distribution or variations of minor importance.
All localities from which I have examined specimens are marked with an exclamation point .
The classification employed is mainly that of Dana in the U. S. Exploring Expedition Crustacea 1852  those of MilneEdwards Annales des Sciences Naturelles III Series Zoologie tome xx pp.
163200 1853 and Kossmann Zoologische Ergebnisse Reise in die Kiistengebiete des rothen Meeres 18YT being comparatively'worthless.
Owing to the limited amount of space at my disposal the synonymy and bibliography have been condensed as far as possible.
Family GRAPSID.31 Dana.
Orapsoidiem M.
Edw..
Carapax subquadrate depressed.
Front generally broad.
Eyes short.
Antennulge transversely plicate.
Epistome short sometimes linear.
Meros of the external maxillipeds bearing the palpus at the summit or at its external angle.
Second joint of the abdomen of the male nearly as wide as the adjacent portion of the sternum.
The Orapsidee are all inhabitants of the temperate or tropical waters and generally iQ near the shores.
A few however e.g.
Nautilograpsus and Varuna live on the high seas.
The familymay conveniently be dinded into two subfamilies by characters derived from the antennae.
In the Grapsinse the antennae are ' The characters given by Dana for the Sesarraiuae I do not consider of sufficient importance to warrant its retention as a sub family and would rather consider it as a group of the Grapsinse.
covered by the front  in the Plagusinse they are received into notches in the front and are visible from above.
Analytical Key to the Genera of the Grapsidse.
Antennse covered by the front.
GRAPSIN.
External maxillipeds without a piliferous ridge.
Grapsini.
External maxillipeds widely gaping.
Antennse excluded from the orbit.
Meros of the external maxillipeds as long as the ischium.
Goniopsis.
Meros of the external maxillipeds shorter than the ischium.
Metopograpsus.
Antennae entering the orbit.
Front less than half the width of the carapax.
No tooth behind the orbital angle.
Epigrapsus.
One tooth behind the orbital angle.
Fingers of cheliped excavate.
Grapsus.
Fingers acuminate.
Sides straight.
Orthograpsus.
Sides arcuate in front.
Geograpsus.
Two teeth behind the orbital angle.
Leptograpsus.
More than two teeth behind the angle of the orbit.
Male abdomen fivejointed anteunulse transverse front straight.
Grapsodes.
Male abdomen sevenjointed antennulse oblique front excavate .
Cyrtograpsus.
Front more than half the width of the carapax.
Carapax transverse.
Paehy grapsus.
Carapax longer than broad.
Nautilograpsus.
External maxillipeds without a rhomboidal gape.
Palpus articulating with the inner angle of the meros of the external maxillipeds.
One tooth behind the orbital angle.
Br acliy grapsus.
Several teeth behind the orbital angle.
EucMrograpsus.
Palpus articulating with middle of the anterior margin of the meros of the external maxillipeds.
Exognath of external maxillipeds very broad.
PtycJiognaihus.
Exognath much narrower than the ischium.
Sides of carapax entire.
Acmceopleura.
Sides of carapax dentate.
External distal angle of the meros of the external maxillipeds expanded.
Joints of ambulatory feet rounded dactyli styliform.
Pseudograpsus.
Ambulatory feet compressed dactyli flattened natatorial.
Varuna.
Meros of external maxillipeds not expanded.
Meros of external maxillipeds broader than long.
Meros as long as ischium.
Glyptogra'psus.
Meros shorter than ischium.
Utica.
Meros as long or longer than broad.
Front nearly half as wide as carapax.
Heterograpsus.
Front not over onethird as wide as carapax.
Eriocheir.
Palpus articulating with the outer angle of the meros of the external maxilliped.
One tooth behind the orbital angle.
Perig7'ipsus.
More than one tooth behind the orbital angle.
Platygrapsvs.
External maxillipeds with an oblique piliferous ridge.
Sesarmini.
Meros of external maxilliped elongate its apex rounded.
Antennae excluded from the orbit.
Metasesdrma.
Antennae not excluded from the orbit.
Carapax subquadrate sides ai'cuate.
Joints of ambulatoiy feet entire.
Sarmatium.
Joints of ambulatory feet dentate.
Bhaconotus.
Carapax quadrate sides straight.
Sesarma.
Carapax elongate narrowed behind.
Aratus.
Mei'os of external maxilliped short its distal border truncate or even excavate and bearing the palpus.
Antennae excluded from the orbit.
Clistocoeloma.
Antennae entering the orbit.
Sides of carapax straight.
Helice.
Sides arcuate.
Sides entire.
Cyclograpsns.
Sides emarginate or toothed.
Chasmagnathus.
Antennae lodged in notches in the front and visible from above.
PLAGUSm.
Meros of external maxillipeds large as broad as ischium.
Plagisia.
Meros small and much narrower than ischium.
Leiolophus.
Subfamily Grapsinse Grapsinm et Sesarmince Dana.
Antennulse more or less transverse and covered by the front.
Tribe GRAPSINI Subfamily Grapsinse Dana.
 External maxillipeds without an oblique piliferous ridge on the ischial and meral joints.
Genus GONIOPSIS De Haan 1835 Goniograpsus pars Dana 1851.
Carapax flat  front vertical over half as wide as carapax  sides straight onetoothed.
Suborbital lobe broad reaching the front and excluding the antenna from the orbit.
External maxillipeds slender  meral and ischial joints of equal length.
1.
G. cruentatus De Hann ex Latreille.
Cancer rvricola De Geer.
Memoirs pour seivir a I'Hist.
Insectes vii 417 PL XXV 1778 non Linne.
Orapsxis criientattts Latreille.
Histcrire Naturelle des Crust et Ins. vi p. 70 18034.
Goniopsis cruentatus Ie Haan.
Fauna .Japonica Crust. p. 33 1835.
Grapsus longipes Randall.
Jour.
Pliila.
Acad. viii p. 125 1839.
Goniopsis ruricola White.
List Brit.
Mus.
Crust. p. 40 1847.
'Grajysus pelU Herklots.
Additamenta ad Faunam Carcinologicam AfricjB Occidentalis 8 PI.
I f. 67 1851.
'Goniograpsus cruentatus Dana.
U. S. Expl.
Exped.
Crust. p. 342 PL XXI f. 7 1852.
Front granulate suprafrontal lobes four margins crenulate oi'bits entire above distally emarginate.
Carapax with oblique transverse ridges.
Anterior margin of nieros of chelipeds expanded dentate the upper and lower margins with spiniform tubercles as is also the upper margin of carpus.
Hands with spiniform tubercles above and below the middle of the outer surface smooth the inner surface with scattered prominent granules.
Thumb and finger subexcavate the latter spinose above.
Ambulatory feet compressed and armed with still' black bristles.
Posterior angle of meros of last pair rounded in the other feet dentate.
Floridti.
H. E. Webster in Union College Museum  Bahamas
Cuba
H.F.Baker Surmam
Dr. Hering Randall's type of G. longipes  Gaboon W. Africa Du Chaillu  West Coast of Nicaragtia
J.
A. McNiel in Museum of Peabody Academy Tropical Seas of America Auct  Genus METOPOGRAPSUS M.Edw. 1858.
Front more than half the width of carapax deflexed.
Sides straight.
Internal suborbital lobe very broad reaching the front and excluding the antenna from the orbit.
Meros of external maxilliped short much broader than long.
Key to Species.
Anterolateral margin entire.
Frontal margin sinuate.
messor.
Frontal margin straight.
latifrons.
Anterolateral margin toothed.
oceanicus.
M. messor Edwards ex ForskaL Cancer messor ForskaL Descr.
An.
in Itin.
Observ. p. 88 1775.
Grapsus gaimardii Andouin Expl.
PL Savigny teste Edw..
Grctpsus messor Avf  Hist.
Nat Crust. ii p. 88 1837.
Grapsus thukuJiar Owen.
In Beechey's Voyage Zoology p. 80 Tl.
XXIV f. 3 1839.
Grapsis paniUelus Randall.
.Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila.
viii p. 127 1839.
Metopograpsus messor timkuliar eydouxi et intermedius Edw.
Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill XX p. 165 1853.
Carapax slightly narrowed behind plications and rugse more or less distinct.
Frontal lobes rather prominent frontal margin sinuate smooth or crenulate at the angles.
Meros of chelipeds with the posterior surfiice rugose the anterior margin expanded and distally truncate a few spinose teeth near the base and several on the truncate margin.
Carpus externall' rugose internallj' with a prominent bifid or quadrifid tubercle.
Hands with oblique folds above and below and a longitudinal ridge on the lower outer surface.
Fingers subexcavate.
Last joint of male abdomen but slightly narrower than penult joint.
Sandwich Is.

Nuttall Pease Jones Wilkes' Expedition Tahiti
A.J.
Garrett Avstralia  E. Wilson Mauritius Guerin Aden 
Natal
Dr. T. B. AVilson  Indian and Pacific Oceans Auct.
M. latifrons Edwards ex White.
Oi'apsus latifrons White in Jukes' Voyage of the Fly ii p. 337 PI.
II f. 2 1847j.
Metopograpsus latifrens et maculatus'Eidw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat.
Ill xx pp.
166 and 165 PI.
VII f. 1 1853.
Metopograpsus pictus A M.Edw. Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
France vii p. 283 1867  Nouv.
Arch du Mus. ix p. 289 PI.
XIII f. 2 1873.
Carapax narrowed behind plications indistinct  frontal lobes granulate on the edge.
Front broad nearly straight mai'gin denticulate.
Chelipeds similar to those of M. messor.
Base of last joint of male abdomen much narrower than the extremity of penult joint.
Batavia 
Dr. Wilson Singapore White Java Edw New Caledonia A.
M.Edw..
M. oceanicus Jacq.
et Lucas.
Metopograpsus Grapsus oceanicus Jacqiiinot et Lucas Voyage Astrolabe et Zeelee Crust. p. 73 PI.
VI f. 9 Text 1853 Plates 184253.
Metopograpsus quadridentatus Stimpson Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philadelphia 1858 p. 102.
Pulo Han J. et L. near Hong Kong Stm.
 Nicobar Is.
Heller.
Geuus EPIGEAPSUS Ileller 1S621 Nedograpsus Heller 1865.
Sides arcuate entire orbits externally open  external maxillipeds gaping meros shorter than the ischium rather broad abdomen of the male five of the female sevenjointed.
E. politus Helltr.
Epigrapsus politus Heller Verb.
Z.
B Ges.
Wien 1862 p. 522.
Nectograpsus politus Heller Reise der Novara Crustaceen p. 57 PI.
V f. a 1805.
Nicobars  T7i Heller.
Genus GEAPStJS Lamarck restrict.
Sides arcuate with one tooth behind the orbital angle front narrow deflexed  antennae entering the orbit.
External maxillipeds slender gaping  meros oblong.
Fingers of chelipeds excavate.
G. maculatus Edwards ex Catesby.
Pagttrus maculatus Catesby Nat.
Hist of the Carolinas ii Plate XXXVI f. 1 1743 et 1771.  Dr. Heller in his preliminary account of the Crustacea collected by the Novara Expedition Verbandl.
Zool.
Bot.
Gesellscbaft Wien 1862 pp.
519528 characterizes several genera and species of which no mention is made in the final report.
These are MenmtJiius brevirostris which is probably Acantlionyx consobrinus A. Edw.
 of the final report  Xantho tetraodon is Eudora tetraodon Carpilodes granulatus appears to be C. tristis Dana.
Lupa Mrsuta was probably referred to Neptunus sanguinolentus.
Thelphusa willlerstorfl appears to be .
leschenmidii Parathelphusa dentipes to be P. tridentata Eelcecius areolatus to be H. cordiformis Metaplax Jiirtipes is apparently referred to a new genus Orapsus depressus is probably Oeograpsus crinipes Orapsus dedivifrons is apparently rechristened Pachygrapsus iniermedius Eeterograpsus barbigerus has its specific name altered to barhimanus Epigrapsus nov. gen. reappears as Nectograpsus nov. gen. with no reason assigned for the change.
Metasesarma granulatus is redescribed as new under the name rugulosa.
Plagusetes elatus is probably as pointed out by Mr. Miers Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist. ix p. 147 1878 Acuntliocydus gayiof the final report.
Oelasmls vcmegatus appears to have been finally referred to G. annulipes.
Palinurus paulensis was afterward apparently referred to P. lalandii and Pelias notatus is refened to Anchistia.
All this shuffling of names is made without the slightest hint to aid one in correlating the two papers and is a proceeding which cannot be too strongly condemned.
There were at least two editions of Catesby bearing dates as above and as the second appeared thirteen years after the tenth edition of the Syslema Natures oiJAmw and five after the twelfth edition the names employed by Catesby will hold.
Cancer grapsus Liim. Syst.
Nat. Edit. x p. 630 1758.
Qrapsus pictus Latieille Hist.
Crust etiiis. vi p. 69 PI.
XL VII f. 3 18034.
Goniopsis pictus De Haan Fauna Japonica Crust. p. 33 1835.
Grapsus strigosus Brulle in Webb et Berthelot Hist Canaries ii PI.
II  Crustacea p. 15 183644 teste'Edw.'
Grapsus maculatus webbi ornaius et pharaonis Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat.
pp.
1678 PI.
VI f. 1 1853.
Grapsus aUifrons Stimpson Annals N. Y. Lyceum Nat.
Hist. vii p. 230 1860.
Carapax depressed transversel plicate folds anteriorly broken lip into squamiform tubercles.
Frontal crest fourlobed median lobes the larger their margins subtuberculate.
Frontal margins crenulate regularly arcuate.
Lateral margin arcuate.
Inferior border of orbit with a deep fissure.
Anterior border of ischium and meros of cheliped spinose the lower margin of the meros spinotuberculate the posterior surface plicate.
Carpus with distant tubercles its interior margin with a laminate spine.
Hand above tuberculate externally with longitudinal ridges below with oblique folds.
On the inner surface the tubercles and folds are less prominent.
Fingers short tips excavate.
Ambulatory feet compressed propodal and dactylic joint spinose.
Florida Keys
Webster Ashmead  West Indies Lawrence Wood Wilson Goes Lea  San Lorenzo I Wilkes' Expedition  Pernambuco
Dr. Wilson Tahiti
A. Garrett W. Coast Mexico
Dr. Jones Central America I McNiel  New Zealand
Dr. Wilson Mauritius
Guerin  Natal
Dr. Wilson Georgia California Peru St. Helena and Cape Verde Is.
Miers  Paumotu and Hawaian Is.
Dana  Honduras
no collector's name.
The genus Grajsus as well as several others is divided into sections by MilneEdwards characterized either by having the posterior distal angle of the meros of the last pair of ambulatory feet regularly rounded or dentate  but in specimens of G. maculatus. I have occasionally found this angle on one side entire and the other dentate.
G. maculatus var.
tenuicristatus Alartens ex Herbst.
Cancer' tenuicristatus Herbst.
Krabbeu und Krebse PI.
Ill f. 3334 1790 teste Martens.
Grapsus rudis Edw. Hist.
Nat.
Crust. il p. 87 1837.
Grapsus hirtus Randall Jour.
Phila.
Acad. viii p. 124 1839.
 Brulle gives not the slightest description which will distinguish his specimens from either maculatus or strigosus.
Is distinguished from the typical forms of G. maculatus only by the hairy carapax and nieral joints of the ambulatory limbs and the narrower carpal spine.
All other characters Avhich have been given prove inconstant.
Dr. Martens by an examination of Herbst's type has shown the identity of Herbst's teniiicriatafus and Edwards' rudis.
Hfiwaian Is.
J. K. Townseiid Randall's type  OoJiu
Dr. W. H. Jones  Ceylon Heller  Bonin Stm..
G. Strigosus Latreille ex Herbst.
Cancer strigosus Herbst PL XLVII f. 7 17991.
Orapsus strigosus Latr. Hist.
Crust et Ins. vi p. 70 18034.
Grapsus alboUneatus Lamarck Hist.
Animaux sans Vertebres v p. 2491817.
Ooniopsis strigosus De Haan Fauna Japonica Crust. p. 33 1835.
Grcqysus granrtlosus peronii et pelagicus Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill XX.
p. 169 1853.
.
Grapsus longipes et suhquadratus Stimpson Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philadelphia 1858 pp.
102 et 103.
Carapax but little convex posteriori' with oblique transverse lines anteriorly with sqnamiform tubercles.
Frontal lobes moderate frontal margin crenulate.
Orbits with a deep fissure below.
Epistome short.
Meros spined anteriorly its other margins rounded the posterior surface with transverse rugaeCarpus granulate and bearing internally a slender spine.
Hands much as in G. maculatus.
Posterior distal angle of meros of last pair of ambulatory feet denticulate.
Natal
Australia
Dr. T. B. Wilson  Sandtdch Is.
in Peabody Acad..
Its distribution is embraced within the above limits and Hong Kong Stimpson.
G. gracilipes MilneEdwards.
Grapsus gracilipes Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xx p. 168 1853.
China Edwards.
Subgenus Orthograpsus nov. Carapax transverse broadest behind.
Sides straight with one tooth behind the orbital angle.
Antennas entering the orbit.
Fingers of chelipeds acute.
0. hillii nov. Carapax depressed plications faint.
Suprafrontal lobes moderate  front straight narrow deflexed.
Sides of carapax straight postorbital tooth small.
Meros of external maxilliped a little longer than broad.
Chelipeds much as in Metopograpsus onessor the hand granulate above fingers acuminate.
Posterior distal angle of meral joints of ambulator feet rounded entire or finely serrate there being a variation in the sides of the same specimen.
West Indies 
Dr. Wilson  Key West Fla. 
Dr. A. S. Packard Jr. Peab.
Acad.
0. longitarsis Kingslcy ex Dana.
Grapsus longitavsis Dana Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. 1851 p. 249.
U. S. Expl.
Exped.
Crust. p. 339 PI.
XXI f. 4 1852.
Pmmiotu Archipelago Dana.
Genus GEOGEAPSTJS Stimpson 1868 Biscoplax Am.
Ed. 1867.
Carapax depressed sides curved in front straight behind one tooth behind the angle of the orbit.
Front narrow strongly deflexed.
Internal suborbital lobe large.
Antennae entering the orbit.
Dactyli of chelipeds acuminate.
Synopsis of Species.
Meros of chelipeds with a laminiform expansion of the anterior margin.
Front nearly straight.
Folds of carapax transverse.
Udidus.
Folds of carapax oblique.
gvayi.
Front arcuate.
crinipes Meros not expanded carapax tuberculate anteriorly.
longipes.
G. lividus Stimpson ex MilneEdwards.
Orapsus lividus Edwards Hist.
Nat.
Crust. ii p. 85 1837.
Grapsus brevipes Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xx p. 170 1853.
Geograpsus litidus Stimpson Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philadelphia 1858 p. 101.
Geograpsus occidentalis Stimpson Annals N. Y. Lye vii p. 230 1860.
Carapax much broader than long depressed.
Plications nearly transverse.
Frontal lobes prominent front deflexed its margin nearly straight.
Sides of carapax slightly arcuate.
Orbit with a deep fissure below.
Meros of chelipeds above and below with transverse rugae its anterior margin expanded proxiraall denticulate distall' the teeth are larger.
Carpus granulate and with a short spine on the inner margin.
Hand and dactylus tuberculate above externally and below with short oblique rugae  fingers acuminate.
Distal angle of meral joints of the last pair of ambulatory feet rounded.
Isle Bartholomeio W. I.
A.
Goes  Chili
Guerin  West Indies Auct.
 Cape St. Lucas Stm..
G criuipes Stimpson ex Dana.
Grapsus crinipes Dana Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci Philadelphia 1851 p. 249.
U. S. Expl.
Exped.
Crust. p. 341 PI.
XXI f. 6 1852.
Geograpsus crinipes Stimpson Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philadelphia 1858 p. 101.
Grapsus depressus Heller Verh.
Z.
B. Gess.
Wien 1862 p. 521.
Carapax depressed the sides nearly parallel folds of the carapax oblique frontal lobes but little prominent front arcuate.
Ischial joint of cheliped spined in front  meros with the anterior margins expanded finely serrate proximally more coarsely so at the apex  carpus and hand roughened above a few inconspicuous lines on the lower outer surface of the palm.
Distal angle of meros of the last pair of ambulatory feet rounded.
Sandioich Is.

Dr. W. H. JonesJ  Tahiti Heller.
G. grayi A. MilneEdwards ex H. MilneEdwards.
Grapsus grayi Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xx p. 170 1853.
Geograpsus ruhidus Stimpson Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci Philadelphia 1858 p. 103.
Geograpsus grayi A.
M.Edw. Nouv.
Arch du Mus. ix p. 288 1873.
Carapax somewhat inflated its folds oblique  frontal lobes prominent front nearl straight.
Orbit with a slight fissure below  chelipeds much as in G. ciHnipes.
Distal angle of meros of last pair of feet rounded entire or dentate.
This is probabl' the adult of the preceding species.
Tahiti
A. Garrett Australia Mauritius Zanzibar Hilgendorf  Madagascar India Bonin New Caledonia A.
M.Edw..
G. longipes Kingsley ex A. MilneEdwards.
Discoplax longipes A.
M.Edw. Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
France vii p. 284 1867.
Nouv.
Arch du Mus. ix p. 294 PI.
XV 1873.
New Caledonia A.
M.Edw..
Genus LEPTOGRAPSTJS M. Edwards pars 1853 Stimpson.
Carapax with the sides arcuate twotoothed.
Front less than half the width of the carapax not deflexed.
Internal suborbital  lobe small antennae entering the orbit.
Meros of external maxillipeds as broad as long but shorter than the ischium.
Leptograpsus variegatus Milne Edwards ex Fabricius.
Cancer varkgatus Fabr. Ent.
Syst. ii p. 450 1793.
Grapsus marginatus Latr. Hist.
Crust et Ins. vi p. 71 18034.
Grapsus personatus Lamarck Hist.
An.
sans Vert. v 249 1817.
Grapsus jyictus Quoy et Gaimai'd Voyage Uranie et Physiciene p. 523 PI.
LXXVI f. 2 1824.
Grapsvs strigillatus White in Gray's Zoological Miscellany p. 78 1843.
Grapsus variegatus Edwards et Lucas in d'Orbigny's Voyage p. 27 1849.
Grapsus planifrons Dana Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philadelphia 1851 p. 249.
U. S. Expl.
Exped.
Crust. p. 638 PL XXII f. 3 1852.
Leptograpsus variegatus Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xx p. 171 1853.
Leptogiapsus hertheloti xerreauxi ansoni et gaii Edw. 1. c p. 172 1853.
Carapax nearl' flat transversely plicate.
Protogastric region concave with squamose tubercles protogastric lobes but little prominent.
Front slightl depressed its margin crenulate and nearly straight.
Orbits with a narrow deep external fissure.
Meros of chelipeds with the anterior border expanded dentate  the other angles rounded the posterior surface rugose.
Carpus tuberculate and with a short spine on the internal surface.
Hand tuberculate above externall'' smooth.
In the 3'oung there is an elevated line along the outside of the palm.
Ambulatory feet with stiff setae.
Pernambuco  Dr. Wilson Chili Wilkes' Expedition  Australia  E. Wilson JVeic So.
Wales
Capt.
Putnam Peabody Academy  Isle Guam Quoy and Gaimard  Canaries Edw.
 Norfolk I.
Miers  Shanghai Heller.
Genus GEAPSOPES Heller 1865.
Carapax depressed sides arcuate and dentate in front behind straight.
Front less than half the width of the carapax strongly deflexed.
Orbits externally open.
Internal suborbital lobe small antennae entering the orbit.
Meros of external maxilliped longer than broad.
Male abdomen fivejointed.
G. notatus Heller.
Grapsodes notatus Heller Novara Crust. p. 58 PI.
V f. 2 1865.
Nieobars Heller.
Genus CYETOGRAPSUS Dana 1851.1  Carapax broader than long front narrow excavate sides arcuate with three teeth behind the orbital angle.
External maxillipeds widely gaping without a piliferous ridge.
Epistome very 1 For some reason Prof. Smith in his paper on Brazilian Crustacea Transactions of the Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences Vol.
ii pp.
142 1869 and in his notes on Ocypodoidea 1. c p. 154 refers several times to this genus and always as Cryptograpsus.
short.
AnteniiiB entering the oi'bit.
Male abdomen sevenjointed the second joint verj short.
 C. angulatas Dana.
Cyrtograpsus angulatus Dana Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1851 p.  250.
U. S. Expl.
Exped. p. 352 PI.
22 f. 6 1852.
Cryptograpsus angulatus Smith Trans.
Conn.
Acad. ii p. 37 1869.
Carapax uneven granulate.
Sides threetoothed second tooth small.
Orbits with a slight fissure above.
Feet all granulate.
Hands inflated fingers acuminate.
Rio Negro Patagonia
U. S. Expl.
Exped..
C. cirripes Kingsley ex Smith.
Cryptograpsus cirripes Smith Trans.
Conn. Acad ii p. 11 PI.
I f. 3 1869.
.
Carapax depressed areolate  front narrow slightly excavate.
Sides of carapax strongl' arcuate with four teeth behind the angle of the orbit the second and last teeth much smaller than the others  all of the borders of the carapax are crenulate.
Chelipeds stout granular.
Propodal joints of first second and fourth and dactylus and carpus of fourth pair of ambulatory feet haired.
Bio Janeiro
Captain Harrington Peabody Academy of Science Salem Mass. types.
Genus PACHYGRAPSUS Randall 1839 Stimpson 1858.
Carapax somewhat narrowed behind and with transverse striae.
Front more than half the width of the carapax sides entire or with one or two teeth  inner suborbital lobe small allowing the antennae to enter the orbit.
External maxillipeds widelj' gaping meros as broad as long.
Type P. crassipes.
Synopsis of Species.
Sides entire.
Front straight or nearly so.
Numerous transverse folds on carapax  lower margin of hand spined.
corrugatls.
Carapax but little plicate hands smooth below.
mthiopicis.
Front strongly sinuate.
Hands smooth.
minutus.
Hands externally with longitudinal ridges.
j''''Sides with one tooth behind the orbital angle.
Posterior distal angle of meros of fifth pair of feet rounded.
Front with a prominent tooth at angle.
crassipes.
Front slightly sinuate without prominent teeth.
maurtis.
Posterior distal angle of meros of fifth feet dentate.
Fingers of cheliped smooth.
transversus.
Fingers dentate or spined above.
gracilis.
Bides twotoothed.
Transverse lines of carapax naked.
marmoratus.
Transverse lines of earapax haired.
pubeseens.
Unknown to me.
latipes.
P. crassipes Randall.
Paehygrapms crassipes Randall Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philadelphia viiip.
127 1839.
Grapsus eydouxi dw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xx p. 170 1853.
Leptograpsus gonagrus Edw. L c p. 173 1853.
Carapax somewhat arcuate sides with a single tooth behind the orbital angle  frontal lobes prominent  front deflexed its margin nearly straight the angles with a prominent tooth.
Meros of Ghelipeds with the anterior margin produced distally truncate and dentate.
Hands inflated margined above and with a longitudinal ridge on the lower outer surface  fingers excavate.
Distal angle of meros of posterior ambulatory feet roimded  dactyli of the ambulatory feet spinulose.

Sandwich Is.

T. Nuttall Randall's type California from San Francisco
to San Diego 
Many coUectoi's  
New Providence W. I. 
H. C. Wood Jr. Tolcohama Tozzetti.
P. maarus Lucas.
P achy grapsus maurus Lucas Expl.
Algiers Crust. p. 20 PL II f. 5 1849.
Ooniograpsus simplex Dana Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1851 p. 24'J  U. S. Expl.
Exped.
Crust p. 344 PI.
XXXI f. 8 1852.
Pachygrapsus simplex Stimpson Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1858 p. 102.
Algiers Lucas  Madeira Dana Bio Janeiro Dana Heller.
P. transversus Gibbes.
Pachygrapsus transversus Gibbes Proc.
Am.
Assoc.
Adv.
Science iii p. 182 1850.
Ooniograpsus innotatus Dana Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1851 i.
249  U. S. Expl.
Exped.
Crust. p. 345 PI.
XXI f. 9 1852.
Leptograpsus rugulosus Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat.
Ill xx p. 172 1853.
Pachygrapsus lavimanus Stimpson Proc.
Phila.
Acad. 1858 p. 102.
Metopograpsus duhiusetminiatus Saussure Mem.
Soc.
Phys etd'Hist.
Nat.
Geneve xiv pp.
444445 PI.
II f. 16 17 1858.
Grapsus declivifrons Heller Verhandl.
Z.
B. Gesellschaft Wien 1862 p. 521.
Pachygrapsus intcrmedius Heller Novara Crust p. 44 1865.
Pachygrapsus socius Stm. Ann.
N. Y. Lye.
x p. 114 1871.
Pachygrapsus advena Catta Ann.
Sci.
Nat.
VI iii No.
1. p. 7 PI.
I 1876.
Carapax depressed shining witli transverse plicae oblique on the branchial region.
Sides generally slightly arcuate with one tooth behind the orbital angle.
Frontal lobes prominent front sinuate.
Meros of chelipeds with transverse rugse the inner margin dentate  carpus rugose with an internal rounded tubercle.
Hand minutely granulate a longitudinal ridge on the lower outer surface margins rounded dactylus with the upper margin smooth.
Posterodistal angle of the meros of last pair of ambulatory feet dentate.
Florida
K.. S. Packard Peab.
Acad.
 Brown Univ.
 H. E. Webster Union College  West Indies
S. G. Morton H. C. Wood Jr. Brazil
Dr. T. B. Wilson California
J. L. Leconte New Zealand 
E. Wilson Tahiti h.. Garrett W. Coast Nicaragua
J.
A. McNiel Peab.
Acad.
 Australia Stm.
 Mio Janeiro Heller Madeira Stm..
P. gracilis Stimpson ex Saussure.
Metopograpsus gracilis Saussure 1. c p. 443 PI.
II f 15 1858 Orapsus guadulpensis Desbonne et Schramm Crustaces de la Guadaloupe p. 48 1867.
Pachygrapsus gracilis Stimpson Ann.
N. Y. Lye x p. 113 1871.
Orapsus Leptograpsus rugulosus Martens Archiv fiir Naturgescliichte xxxviii p. 102 1873.
Carapax much as in P. transversus but with no folds on the cardiac region lateral margins nearly straight onetoothed.
Frontal lobes nearly obsolete  front nearly horizontal regularly arcuate and minutely crenulate.
Chelipeds and ambulatory feet nearly as in P. transversus the hand and dactylus however being spined or toothed above.
Florida
A. S. Packard Jr. Peab.
Acad.
 West Indies Auct..
P. corrugatus Kingsley ex Martens.
Orapsus Leptograpsus corrugatus Martens 1. c p. 107 PI.
IV f .
8 1872.
Cuia Martens.
P. aetMopicus Hilgendorf.
Orapsus Pachygrapsus a'thiopicus Hilgendorf in von der Decken's Reisen in OstAfrika Crust. p. 88 PI.
IV f. 2 1869.
Ugurunga Fast Africa Hilgendorf.
P. plicatus Stimpson ex MilacEdwards.
Orapsus plicatus Edwards Hist.
Nat.
Crust. ii p. 89 1837.
Orapsus Arffsw Edwards Ann.
Sci Nat.
HI xx p. 170 1853.
Pachygrapsus plicatus Stimpson Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. p. 102 1858.
Pachygrapsus striatus A.
M.Edw. Journal Museum Godeflfroy iv.
p. 82 1873.
Carapax broader than long everywhere crossed b' plications which are bordered by short hairs  frontal lobes prominent front sinuate.
Sides of carapax entire.
Meros and carpus of chelipeds externally' plicate inner margin of meros expanded proximally denticulate distallwith spiniform teeth.
Carpus Avith a prominent internal spine.
Hand and dactjdus granulate above externally the hand bears several longitudinal rugie.
Fingers short gaping extremities excavate.
Oahu
Dr. W. H. Jones Tafdti
A. Garrett Peab.
Acad.
 New Caledonia Samoan Is.
A. M.Edw.j Natal Krauss Loo Choo Stimpson.
P. marmoratus Stimpson ex Fabriciup.
Cancer marmoratus Fabrieius Ent.
Syst. ii p.
4.
'0 1793.
Grapsus varius Latreille Hist.
Crust et Ins.
vi p. 69 18034i.
Grapsus marmoratus Desmorest Considerations p. 131 1825.
Leptograpus marmoratus Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat.
Ill xx p. 171 1853.
Pachygrapsus marmoratus Stimpson Proc Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila. 1858 p. 102.
Carapax depressed naked transversely plicate frontal lobes prominent front depressed slightlv arcuate or sometimes a little sinuate.
Sides with two teeth behind the angle of the orbit.
Meros of chelipeds expanded in front expansion distally truncate and dentate.
Carpus and hand tuberculate above the former with a prominent internal tooth.
Fingers slightly excavate.
Posterior distal angle of meros of last pair of feet rounded entire.
France.
Guerin  Bospliorus 
Smithsonian  Mediterranean  Auct. 
 Madeira Stm..
P. pubescens Heller.
Pachygrapsus pubescens Heller Novara Crust p. 45 PI.
IV f. 4 1865.
CMU Heller.
P. minutus A. M. Edwards.
Pachygrapsus minutus A.
M.Edw. Nouv.
Arch du Mus. ix p. 292 PI.
XIV f. 21873.
New Caledonia A.
M.Edw..
P. simplex Kingsley ex Herklots.
Grapsus simplex Herklots Additamenta etc. p. 9 PI.
I f 8 1851.
Boutry West Coast of Africa Kevklot.
Genus NAUTILOGRAPSITS Edwards Planes BelP.
Carapax narrow regularl' arcuate sides slightly convex and bearing a rudimentary tooth behind the orbital angle.
Front ' The genus Planes is a MS. one of Leach.
Bowdich in his  Excursion to Madeira and Porto Santo p. 15 f. 2 1825 figuies and mentions a spe14 more than half the width of the carapax.
External maxillipeds broad meros broader than long.
Posterior feet compressed.
N. minutus Edwards ex Linne.
Cancer minutus Linne Syst.
Nat.
Edit xii p. 1048 1766.
Grapsus minutus Latreille Hist.
Crust et Ins. vi p. 68 18034.
Grapsus cinereus Say Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
i p. 99 1817.
Grapsus pelagiciis Say 1. c p. 443 1818 Planes clypeatns Bowdich 1. c p. 15 PI.
f. 2 1835.
Grapsns testudineum et pelagicus Roux Crust.
Med. PI.
VI f67 183830.
Ocypoda  Grapsus pusillus De Haan op.
cit. p. 59 PI.
XVI f. 2 1835.
Naiitilograisus minutus Edw. Hist.
Nat.
Crust ii p. 90 1837.
Grapsus divis Costa Fauna Napoli Crustaces PI.
IV f. 1 18381851.
Planes mvtmtus Wliite Cat.
Brit.
Mus.
Crust p. 43 1847 Kautilograpsiis Major et Smithii McLeay in Smith Zool. South Africa Annulosa pp.
6667 1849.
Planes Unneana Bell British Stalkeyed Ciiistacea p. 135 1851.
Planes eyaneus Dana Proc.
Phil.
Acad. 1851 p. 250.
Wautilograpsus angustatus Stimpson Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila. 1858 p. 103.
Carapax smooth arcuate in both directions  front nearly straight postorbital tooth small sometimes obsolete.
Sides arcuate.
Meros of chelipeds with its inner distal border dentate  Carpus with a tubercle on the inner surface  hand smooth fingers deflexed.
Ambulatorj feet compressed ciliate.
Gulf Stream
Many Collectors West Indies
Dr. Griffith Surinam
Dr. Hering Falkland Is.
Dr. Wilson Peru
Dr. Ruschenberger  West Coast of Mexico 
Alaska 
Dr. W. H. Jones  China
Capt.
Putnam Nn Zealand
Natal
Dr. Wilson Rio Ganibia
J. Cassin Mediterranean Dr. Wilson France
Guerin  toutes des me78' Guerin.
Guerin's ideas of the distribution leave nothing more to be said.
Genus EUCHIROGRAPSUS M.Edwards 1853.
Carapax depressed subquadrate sides slightlj' arcuate with three teeth behind the orlital angle  orbits entire.
Antennae long cies in these words   A small crab f. 3 a and b which I conceive to be a new species of Planes was found in gieat numbers amongst the anatiferse.
In a footnote the species is described as follows  It was of a delicate but bright rosecolor  from the symmetrical form of its test notched so regularly as to increase the projection and distinctness of its chaperon it may be called P.
clypeafis.
This can hardly be considered as a sufficient description to establish the genus and hence I prefer to retain the commonly accepted name.
entering the orbit Meros of the external maxillipeds about half the length of the ischium its outer distal angle rounded its inner excavate and bearing the palpas.
E. liguricus Edwards.
EuclnrograptiitK Uguneus Edwards Archives du Museum vii p. 153 PI.
X f 2 1853.
Nice Edwards.
Genus BRACHYGRAPSUS nov. Carapax broader than long arcuate without transverse lineation sides nearlj straight with one tooth behind the angle of the orbit.
Meros of the external maxillipeds shorter than broad its external distal angle prominent the internal one bearing the palpus. B. Isevis nov. Front straight external angles of orbit not prominent tooth of lateral margin spiniform.
Meros of cheliped triquetral bearing an obtuse tooth on the upper border.
Carpus with an acute internal spine.
Hands inflated smooth  fingers acute.
Ambulatory feet elongate slender but slightly compressed the dactjdi longer than the propodal joints.
New Zealand 
E. Wilson.
Genus PTYCHOGNATHUS Stimpson 185S Gxnihoffrajims A. M.Edwards.
Carapax flat lateral border emarginate.
External maxillipeds verj' broad nearly meeting the exoguatli fully as broad as the ischium.
The carpus bears the palpus at the middle of the anterior margin and has the external distal angle strongly produced.
Sijnojsis of Species.
Exognath of external maxilliped extending to or exceeding the external distal angle of the ineros.
riedelii.
Exognath extending only to the middle of the meros.
Oblique portion of branchial ridge bounded by a granulated ridge.
jnlipes.
Oblique portion without a prominent boundary.
pvsUlus.
Insufficiently characterized.
glaher.
P. glaber Stimpson.
Ptychognathns jlahcr Stimpson.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philadelphia 1858 p. 104.
Bonin I.
Stm. 
1 I am not certain as to the exact position of this genus as it appears to combine the characters of both the Cydometopa and Catometopa.
In the form of carapax and structure of the external maxillipeds it closely resembles Trapezia.
In the male genital appendages it is allied to the Grapsidce where for the present I prefer to allow it to remain.
Dr. Stimpson's short diagnosis presents no characters which are not held in common by both P. riedelii and pilipes excepting the nonpilose hand which in other species of the genus is only of sexual importance.
P. riedelii Kingsley ex A. MilneEdwards.
Gnathograiisus riedelii A.
M.Edw. Nouv.
Arch du Museum iv p. 182 PI.
XXVII f. 10 1868.
Celebes A.
M.Edw..
P. pusillus Heller.
 ' Pfichognathns pusillus Heller Riese der Novara Crustaceen p. 60 1867.
Onathograpsus barbatiis A.
M.Edw. Nouv.
Arch du Museum ix p. 316 PL XVII f. 4 1872.
Carapax depressed nearly smooth with a few shallow impressions anteriorly.
Front slightly sinuate.
Anterolateral margin with two indistinct teeth behind the orbital angle.
Chelipeds finely granulate but without spines or tubercles.
Hands of the male with a lanose spot on the outside at the base of the fingers  in the female this is wanting.
The exognath of the external maxillipeds reaches only to the middle of the meros.
Ambulatory feet slender compressed.
Mauritius
Guerin' Nicohars Heller New Caledonia A. M.Edw. 
P. pilipes Kingsley ex A. Milne Edwards.
Onathograpsus pilipes A.
M.Edw. Nouv.
Arch du Museum iv 184 PI.
XXVII f. 610 1868.
This species is scarcely more than a variety of P. pusillus but I prefer for the present to leave them separate.
Philippines and Celebes A.
M.Edw..
Genus ACMOPLEUEA Stimpson 1858.
Carapax depressed the anterolateral margins entire.
External maxillipeds nearly meeting the meros bearing the palpus on the middle of the anterior margin  the exognath narrow.
A. parvula Stimpson.
Acmceopleura parvula Stimpson Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philadelphia 1858 p. 105.
Japan Stimpson.
Genus PSEUDOGRAPSUS M. Edwards 1837 reatr.
Carapax depressed transverse  sides arcuate with two teeth behind the orbital angle.
Front less than half the width of the 1 These were labeled by Guerin  Sesarnia penicillata sp.
ined.
carapax.
Meros of external maxillipeds broader than long shorter than the ischium and with its external distal angle strongly produced.
Synopsis of Species.
Hands inflated without elevated lines.
Fingers with many long hairs carapax inflated.
setosus.
Hairs on the hand between the bases of the fingers short carapax flat.
albus.
Hands with an elevated line on the lower outer surface fingers without hairs.
craisus.
P. setosus.
Cancer barbatus Rumph. PI.
X No.
2 1705.
Cancer setosus Fabricius Suppl Ent Syst. p. 339 1798.
Grapsus penicilliger Latr. Reg.
An I Edit.
 iii p. 16 PL XII f. 1 1817.
Eriocheir
penicilliger De Haan Fauna Japonica Crust p. 31 1835 Pseudograpsus penicilliger Edw. Hist.
Crust. ii p. 83 1837.
Pseudogrupsus barbatus Edw. Ann Sci.
Nat. Ill xx p. 191 1853.
Eastern Seas Auct.
P. albus Stimpson.
Pseudograpsus albus Stimpson Proc.
Acad.
Nat Sci. Phila. 1858 p. 104 Japan Stimpson  New Caledonia A MEdwards P. crassus A MilneEdwards.
Pseudograpsus crassus A M.Edw. Nouv.
Arch du Mus. iv p. 176 PI XXVI f. 610 1868 Celebes A. MEdw Genus VARUNA Edwards 1830 Trichopus De Haan 1835.
Carapax depressed sides arcuate twotoothed.
Antennulae oblique.
Antennae entering the orbit  external maxillipeds slightly gaping.
Meros much shorter than the ischium its external distal angle expanded.
Palpus articulating with the middle of the anterior margin.
Exognath half as wide as ischium.
Ambulatory feet compressed natatorial V. litterata MilneEdwards ex Fabricius.
Cancer litterata Fabr. Suppl.
Ent.
Syst. p. 342 1798.
Trichopus litterata De Haan Fauna Japonica Crust. p. 32 1835.
Vaiuna litterata Edw Diet.
Class.
d'Hist.
Nat. xvi p. 511 1830.
Hist Nat Crust. ii p 95 1837 Carapax smooth cardiac region partly circumscribed.
Front straight orbits fissured above lateral teeth sepaiated bj' slight fissures.
Posterior margin of meros of chelipeds acute the inferior granulate the anterior with spiniform tubercles.
Carpus with a prominent internal spine and one or two smaller ones.
Hands inflated rough an elevated line on the lower outer margin.
Ambulatory feet strongly compressed margins ciliate.
In a specimen from New Zealand the carpal spines are wanting.
Philippines  E.  T. B. Wilson  Indian Ocean Guerin  New Zealand
E.Wilson China
Capt.
Putnam Peab.
Acad.
 Fenang
J.P.Ward Peab.
Acad.
 Japan Miers Mauritius A.
M.Edw..
Genus TITICA White 1847.
Carapax depressed sides more or less arcuate twotoothed.
Antennulse oblique.
Antennae entering the orbit.
Meros of external shorter than the ischium its external angle not expanded.
Posterior feet compressed.
Synopsis of Sjiecies.
Inner margins of fingers strongly haired.
hariimanus.
Hands naked.
Angles of front acute.
gracilipes.
Angles of front rounded.
glabra.
v. gracilipes White.
Utica gracilipes White Proc.
Zool.
Soc 1847 p. 86.
Adams and White Voyage Samarang Crust. p. 53 PI.
XIII f. 6 1850.
Philippines  White. 
U. glabra A. MilneEdwards.
Utica glabra A.
M.Edw. Nouv.
Arch du Mus. ix p. 296 PI.
XIV f. 3 1878.
New Caledonia A.
M.Edw..
U. barbimanus A. MilneEdwards Utica barbimanus A.
M.Edw. 1. c p. 297 PL XIV f. 4 1873.
New Caledonia A.
M.Edw.
Genus GLYPTOGEAPSUS Smith 1870.
Carapax transverse distinctly areolate sides arcuate threetoothed.
AntennfE entering the orbit.
Exteinal masillipeds nearly meeting.
Ischium and meros nearly equal in length very broad the meros being broader than long its external distal angle not expanded.
Ambulatory feet elongate the dactyli quadrangular and spinose.
G. impressus Smith.
Glyptograpsus impressus Smith Trans.
Conn.
Acad. ii p. 154 1870.
Acajutla West Coast of Central America Smith.
Genus HETEROGRAPSUS Lucas 1849.
Paeudograpsus pars Edw. Dana Hemujrapsus Dana.
Carapax arcuate front inclined anterolateral margins dentateExternal maxillipeds nearly closing.
The meros as long or longer than broad and bearing the palpus on the middle of its anterior border the exognath narrow.
As the distinctions between the species are mainly comparative and the descriptions of authors are very brief no sj'nopsis can be given.
The species may however be divided into two sections according to the number of teeth on the anterolateral margin.
A. Anterolateral margin inth tico teeth behind the orbital angle.
H. Incasii Edwards.
Heterograpsus sexdentatus Lucas Exploration Algiers 1 p. 19 PI.
II f. 4 1849 nee Edwards.
Heterograpsus lucasii Edwards Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xx p. 193 1853.
Carapax regularly arcuate epigastric lobes but slightly indicated.
Front fourlobed.
Anterolateral margin with two prominent narrow acute teeth.
Chelipeds without spines or tubercles the hands of the male are smooth and rounded in the female thej' have a double crest above and two elevated lines on the outer surface.
1 Ambulator' feet slender naked  dactyli long and slender.
Algiers
Dr. T. B. Wilson  Candiu Edwards.
H. sexdentatus Edwards.
Cyclograpsus sexdentatus Edwards Hist.
Nat.
Crust. ii p. 79 1837.
Hemigrapsus sexdentatus Dana U. S. Expl.
Exped. Crustacea p. 348 PI.
XXII f. 2 2850.
Heterograpsus sexdentatts Edwards Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xx p. 192 PI.
vii f. 7 1853.
Carapax arcuate surface uneven laterally granulate.
Epigastric lobes prominent.
Front straight.
Anterolateral margin with two teeth behind the orbital angle the teeth broad the emarginations narrow.
Chelipeds without spines or tubercles.
Hands small fingers excavate.
Ambulatory feet moderate naked  dactyli short and stout.
Australia
E. Wilson  Neic Zealand
Dr. T. B. Wilson  Bay of Islands Dana.
1 MilneEdwards 1. c p. 192 divides this section of the genus into two groups one with the hands roiuided and without longitudinal cre.sts the other with cre.sts a division which evidently cannot be maintained.
H. sanguineus Edwards ex De Haan.
Grapsus sanguineus De Haan Fauna Japonica Crustacea p. 58 PL XVI f. 3 1835.
Orapsus marmoratus White Cat.
Brit.
Museum Crust. p. 41 1847  sine descr. 
.
Pseudograpsus nudus Dana Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila 1851 p. 349 Expl.
Exped. Crust. p. 335 PI.
XX f. 7 1852.
Heterograpsus sanguineus marmoratus et maculatus Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Iir XX p. 193 1853.
Heterograpsus nudus Stimpson Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1858 p. 104.
Carapax posteriori nearly flat in front arcuate with scattered punctae and a carved line of larger depressions running inward from the last tooth of the lateral margin.
Front obsoletely twolobed  anterolateral margin with two teeth closely similar to those of H. sexdentatus.
Chelipeds smooth with small red spots which persist in alcoholic or dried specimens.
Hands with an external crest becoming obsolescent with age  fingers excavate.
Ambulatory feet short stout naked punctate  the dactyli very stout.
California 
many localities and collectors  Vancouver Is.

Dr. A. S. .Packard Jr. in Peabody Acad.
Science San Lorenzo Gulf of California
Wilkes' Expedition Australia
E. Wilson  Japan De Haan  Punipet and Auckland Heller  Hong Kong Stimpson  Sitka White  Polynesia Edwards.
H. crassimanus Kinsley ex Dana.
Hemigrapsus' crassimanus Dana Proc.
Phila.
Acad. 1851 p. 250.
U. S. Ex.
Exped. Crust. p. 349 PI.
XXII f. 4 1852.
Hawaian Is.
Dana.
H. crenulatus Edwards ex GuTin.
Grapsus crenulatus Guerin Voy.
Coquille ii pt.
i p. 15 1838.'
Cyclograpsus crenulatus Edw. Hist.
Nat.
Crust. ii p. 80 1837.
Hemigrapsus crenulatus Dana U. S. Ex.
Ex. Crust. p. 349 PI.
XXII f. 3 1852.
Heterograpsus crenulatus Edward.s Ann.
Sci.
Nat.
Ill xx p. 193 1853.
Heterograpsus barbigerus Heller Yerh.
Z.
B. Gesellschaft Wien 1862 p. 522.
Heterograpsus barbimanus Heller Novara Crustacea p. 53 PI.
IV f. 5 1867.
Australia Guerin  Mic Zealand Edwards  Bay of Islands Dana  Punipet and Auckland Heller.
1 The title bears the date 1830 the introduction to the Crustacea and Arachnida 15 Novembre 1838 and the plates 1826.
Guerin in his description refers to MilneEdwards' classic work as then in manuscript.
H. elongatus A M.Edw.
IIeterorajsus elongatus Alpb.
MilneEdwards Nouv.
Arch du Museum ix p. 317 PI.
XVII f. 5 1873.
Ifew Caledonia A.
M.Edw.
H oregonensis Stimpson ex Dana.
Pseudograpsus oregonensis Dana Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philadelphia 1851 p. 248.
Expl.
Exped.
Crust. p. 334 PI.
XX f. 6 1852.
Heterograpsus oregonensis Stimpson Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philadelphia 1858 p. 104.
Carapax depiessed anteriorlj' iriegularly roughened  protogastric lobes defined.
Front fourlobed the inner lobes the more prominent.
Anterolateral margin with two prominent teeth.
Chelipeds without spines or tubercles.
Hands with an elevated line on the lower outer surface the inner surface of the hand of the male with a pilose spot.
Ambulatory feet moderate ciliate.
Pacific Coast of North America from Puget Sound
Geo.
Davidson to Santa Cruz
Miss Hecox.
There are two si3ecimens belonging to this species in the Museum of the Academy bearing the label  New Providence W. I. Dr. H. C. Wood Jr. H. penicillatus Stimpson ex De Haan.
Briocheir penicillatus De Haan op.
cit. p. 60 PI.
XI f. 6 1835.
Heterograpsus penicillatus Stimpson Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philadelphia 1858 p. 104.
Japan De Haan.
H erythraeus Kingsley ex Kossmann.
Pseudograpsus erythra'us Kossmann Reise in den Kiistengebiete des rothen Meeres p. 61 PI.
1 f. 5 1877.
Bed Sea Kossmann.
H. pallipes MilneEdwards.
Pseudograpsus pallipes Edw. Hist.
Crust. ii p. 82 1837.
Heterograpsus pallipes Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xx p. 194 1858.
Atistralia Edw..
B. Anterolateral margin with three teeth behind the orbital angle.
H. octodentatus Edwards.
Cyclograpsus octodentatus Edwards Hist.
Nat.
Crust. ii p. 80 1837.
Heterograpsus octodentatus Edwards Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xx p. 194 1853.
Locality unknown.
H. affinis Kingsley ex Dana.
Hemigrapsus affinis Dana Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philadelphia 1851 p. 250.
U. S. Exp.
Exped. Crustacea p. 350 PI.
XXII f. 5 1852.
Patagonia Dana.
H. spinosns Edw.
Heterograpsus spinosus Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xx.
p. 194 1853.
Vanikoro Edw.
 Australia A. M.Edw.
Genus ERIOCHEIR De Haan 1835.
Carapax quadrate anterolateral margin twotoothed.
Front much less than half the width of the carapax.
Antennulffi oblique.
Antennae not excluded from the orbit.
External maxillipeds nearly closing.
Meros as long as broad the external distal angle not expanded and the carpus articulating with the middle of its anterior border.
Synopsis of Species.
Sides convex.
Mesial frontal lobes rounded.
japonkus.
Frontal lobes acute.
sinensis.
Sides straight.
rectus.
E. japonicus De Haan.
Eriocheir japonicus De Haan op.
cit. p. 59 PI.
XVII 1835.
Carapax nearly flat surface uneven.
Front fourlobed mesial lobes rounded outer lobes acute  protogastric lobes prominent granulate.
Anterolateral border twotoothed with indications of a third.
Meros of chelipeds with the margins granulate the posterior terminating in an acute tooth.
Carpus with a prominent internal spine  distal margin of the carpus and external surface of the hand with thickly set long hair  the inner surface of the palm with a short horizontal line of granules.
Fingers subexcavate.
Ambulatory feet hairj above.
Japan
no donor's name.
E. sinensis.
EriocJieirlxsl sinensis Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xx p. 177 1853.
Arch du Mus. vii p. 146 PI.
IX f. 1 1854.
Gdna Edw..
E. rectus.
Eriocheir rectus Stirapson Proc.
Acad.
Nat Sci.
Phila. 1858 p. 103.
Macao Stimpson.
Genus PERIGRAPSUS Heller 1862.
Carapax convex sides arcuate with one tooth behind the angle of the orbit.
Front narrower than half the width of the carapax.
Meros of the external maxilliped a little longer than broad and beai'ing the palpus on the external angle.
Dactyli of ambulatory feet spined.
P. excelsus Heller.
Perigrapsus excelsus Heller Verb.
Zool.
Bot.
Ges.
Wien 1862 p. 522.
Novara Crust. p. 50 PI.
V f. 1 1865.
TaUti Heller.
Genus PLATYGRAPSTJS Stimpson 1858 Platynotus De Haan 18.35 preocc.
Carapax flat.
Front horizontal.
Sides nearly straight with two teeth behind the angle of the oi'bit.
Meros of the external maxilliped longer than the ischium and bearing the palpus on the external angle.
P. depressus Stimpson ex De Haan.
Platynotus depressus De Haau Fauna Japonica Crust. p. 63 PI.
VIII f. 2 1835.
Platygrapsus depressus et convexiusculus Stimpson Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1858 p. 104.
Carapax depressed smooth front horizontal  fourlobed  mesial lobes the larger sides with two teeth behind the angle of the orbit the posterior tooth indistinct.
Chelipeds smooth and unarmed  meros with the anterior margin acute  carpus without spines or tubercles  hand with an elevated line on the lower outer surface  fingers slender gaping.
Ambulatory feet elongate.
Japan
no donor's name Hong Kong Heller LooChoo Stimpson.
Tribe Sesarmini Subfamily SesarmincB Dana.
Meros and ischium of the external maxillipecls crossed obliqueljby a piliferous ridge.
Genus METASESARMA Edw 1853.
Carapax quadrate sides but slightly arcuate entire  front broad deflexed.
Suborbital lobe large meeting the front and excluding the antennae from the orbit.
Meros of external maxilliped greatl elongate its apex rounded.
Sinojjsis of Species.
Hands smooth externally and above.
roiisseauxi.
Hand roughened above.
granulans.
Haud roughened above and externally.
trapezium.
M. rousseauxi Edw.
Metasesarma rousseauxi Edw. Ann Sci.
Nat. Ill xx p. 88 1853.
Arch du Mus. vii p. 158 PI.
X f. 1 1854.
Zanzibar Edw..
M granulans Heller.
Metasesarma granularis Heller Verb.
Z.
B. Ges.
Wien 1863 p. 523.
Metasesarma rugulosa Heller Novara Crust. p. 65 1865.
TaUU Heller.
M. trapezium Stimpson ex Dana.
Sesarma trapeziu7n Dana U. S. Expl.
Exped.
p. 354 PI.
XXII f. 8 1852.
Metasesarma trapezium Stimpsou Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pbila. 1861 p. 373.
Sandioich Is.
Dana.
Genus SARMATIXJM Dana 1851 Metagrapsua Edw. 1853.
Carapax convex sides arcuate entire or toothed.
Front inclined less than half the width of the carapax.
External maxillipeds nearly as in Sesarma.
Ambulatory feet with the margins entire.
Synopsis of Species.
Sides of carapax with two teeth behind the orbital angle.
Hands externally smooth and rounded.
Carapax smooth band transversely plicate above.
crassum.
Carapax areolate hand smooth above.
curvatum.
Hands externally roughened.
Hands externally bearing a pectinate crest.
pectinatum.
Hands without a prominent external crest.
Hands with an internal granulate ridge.
punctatum.
Hands entire within.
indicum.
Sides of carapax entire.
integrum S. crassum Dana.
Sarmatium crassum Dana Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1851 p. U. S. Expl.
Exped. Crust. p. 358 PI.
XXIII f. 1 1852.
Samoan Is.
Dana.
S. curvatum Kingsley ex MilneEdwards.
Sesarma curvata Edw. Hist.
Crust. ii p. 75 1837.
Metagrapsus curvatus M.Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat.
Ill xx p. 189 1853.
Arch du Mus. vii p. IGO PI.
X f. 3 1854.
Senegal Edw..
S. pectinatum Kingsley ex MilneEdwards.
Metagrapsus pectinatus Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat.
Ill xx p. 189 1853.
Martinique Edw..
S. punctatum Kingsley ex A. MilneEdwards.
Metagrapsus punctatus A.
M.Edw. Nouv.
Arch du Mus. ix p. 308 PI.
XVII f. 2 1873.
Neio Caledonia A.
M.Edw.. '
I have here as in other places employed the earlier name  what reason Dr. Heller had for the change I cannot imagine.
S. indicum Kingsley ex A. MilneEdwards.
Mctagra'psus indicus A.
M.Edw. Nouv.
Arch dii Mus. iv p. 174 XXVI f. 15 1868.
Celebes A.
M.Edw..
S integrum Kingsley ex A. MilneEdwards.
Metagrapsiis integer A.
M.Edw. Nouv.
Arch du Mus. ix p. 309 PL XVII f. 3 1873.
New Caledonia A.
M.Edw..
Genus RHACONOTTJS Gtrstsecker 1866.
Carapax subquadrate sides areuate toothed.
Front narrow about onethird the width of the carapax.
Mei'os of external maxillipeds nearlyas broad as long and about half the length of the ischium.
Ambulatory feet compressed the margins of the joints serrate.
B. crenulatus Gerstrecker.
Rhaconotus crenulatus Gerstsecker Arcliiv fiir Naturgeschicbte xxi p. 142 1856.
Locality unknown.
Genus SESARMA Say 1818.
Pachysoma De Haan 1835.
Holometopus Edw. 1853..
Carapax thick quadrate lateral margins straight entire or toothed.
External maxillipeds with an oblique piliferous ridge crossing the ischium and meros  the meros elongate its apex rounded.
Antenna
entering the orbit.
I have not attempted to revise the species of this genus on account of a lack of sufficient material.
I merely give a list of the described' species indicating in a few cases the synonymy but leaving the task of comparing a large number of poor descriptions to some future carcinologist.
S. aflBnis Edw.
 
quadrata.
Orapsus Pachysoma affinis De Haan op.
cit. p. 61 PI.
XVIII f. 5 1835.
Sesarma affinis Edwards Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xx p. 183 1853.
Japan De Haan  China Edw.
 Natal Krauss.
S. africana Edwards.
Sesarma africana Edw. Hist.
Nat.
Crust. ii p. 73 1837.
Senegal Edw..
S. americana Saussure.
Sesarma americana Saixssure Mem.
Soc.
Phys.
et Hist.
Nat. xiv p. 441 1858.
St. Thomas W I.
Saussure.
S. angolensis Capello.
Sesarma angolensis Capello Descr.
tres sp.
Nov. Crust du Africa Occident p. 4 f. 2 1864.
Angola West Africa Capello.
S. angusta Smith.
Sesarma angusta Smith Trans.
Conn.
Acad. ii p. 159 1870.
Panama Smith.
S. angustifrons A. MilneEdwards.
Sesarma angustifrons A.
M.Edw. Noiiv.
Arch du Mus.
Bulletin v p. 26 1869.
Sandwich Is.
A.
M.Edw..
S angustipes Dana.
Sesarma angustipes Dana U. S. Expl.
Exped. Crust. p. 853 PI.
XXII f. 7 1853.
Florida 
West Indies 
Brazil 
S. aspera Heller.
Sesarma aspera Heller Novara Crust. p. 63 PI.
VI f. 3 1865.
Nicohars Ceylon Madras Heller.
S. atrorubens Hess.
Sesarma atrorubens Hess Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte xxxi p. 149 PI.
VI f. 13 1865.
Sydney Australia Hess.
S. aubryi A. MilneEdwards.
Sesarma aubryi A.
M.Edw. Nouv.
Arch. Bulletin v p. 35 1869.
Nouv.
Arch. ix p. 307 PI.
XVI f. 3 1873.
JS'ew Caledonia A.
M.Edw..
S. bidens MilneEdwards ex De Haan. '
Grapsus Pachysoma bidens De Haan op.
cit. p. 60 PI.
XVI f. 4 PL XI f. 4 1835.
Sesarma bidens Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xx p. 185 1853.
Japan De Haan Hong Kong Nicobars Heller Friendly Is.
Dana  Ceylon Zanzibar Hilgendorf.
S. boucourti A. MilneEdwards.
Sesarma boucourti A.
M.Edw. Bulletin 1. c p. 38 1869.
Siam A.
M.Edw..
S. chirogona Tozzetti.
Sesarma chirogona TargioniTozzetti Zoologia del Viaggio della Magenta p. 186 PI.
IX 1877.
Yokohama Tozzetti.
S. cinereus Say ex Bosc.
Grapsus cinereus Bosc Hist.
Nat.
Crust. i p. 204 PI.
V f. 1 18023 teste Auct.
.
Sesarma cinerea Say Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. i p. 443 1818K Virginia 
to Florida 
and the West Indies I S. dentifrons A. MilneEdwards.
Sesarma dentifrons A.
M.Edw. Bulletin 1. c p. 31 1869.
Samoan Is.
A.
M.Edw..
S. dehaani MilneEdwards.
Grapsus Pachysoma guadratus De Haan op.
cit.
p. 63 PI.
VIII f. 3 1835.
Sesarma dehaani Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xx p. 184 1853.
Japan De Haan.
S. dusumieri MilneEdwards  S. bidens.
Sesarma duswiieri Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xx p. 185 1853.
Bombay Edw..
S. elegans Herklots.
Sesarma elegans Herklots Addit.
ad Fauuam Afric.
Occident. p. 10 PI.
I f. 10 1851.
Boutry West Africa Herklots.
S. elongata A. MilneEdward.
Sesarma elongatum A. M.Edw Bulletin 1. c p. 30 1869.
Madagascar A. M.Edw.
S. erythrodactyla Hess.
Sesarma erythrodactyla Hess Arch fiir Naturges. xxxi p. 151 PI.
VI f. 10 1865.
Sydney Australia Hess.
S eydouxi MilneEdwards.
Sesarma eydouxi Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xx p. 184 1853.
Cochin China Edw.
 Madras Heller.
S. fascicularis Hilgendorf ex Herbst Cancer fascicularis Herbst Krabben nnd Krebse PI.
XLVH f. 5 1795.
Sesarma mederl'E.dyv Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xx p. 185 1853 teste Hilgendorf.
Batavia Edw..
S. frontale A. MilneEdwards.
Sesarma frontale A.
M.Edw. Bulletin 1. c p. 27 1869.
Madagascar A.
M.Edw..
S. germani A. MilneEdwards.
Sesarma germani K. M.Edw Bulletin 1. c p. 28 1869.
Poulo Condore.
S. gracilipes A. MilneEdwards.
Sesarma inipressa jiin.
Homb.
et Jacq. Voy.
Ast.
et Zelee Crust. PI.
VI.
f. 5.
Sesarma gracilipes Edw. Ann.
Sci Nat. Ill xx p. 182 1853.
Vaoa Edw.
 Nicobars Heller.
S. guerini MilneEdwards.
Sesarma guerini Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xx p. 183 1853.
Locality unknown.
S. gattatum A.MilueEdwards.
Sesarma guttatum A.
M.Edw. Bulletin 1. c p. 26 1869.
Zanzibar A.
M.Edw..
S. haematocheir Kingsley e. De Haan.
Orapsus Pachysoma hcematocJieir De Haan op.
cit.
p. 67 PI.
VII f. 4 1837.
Holometopus hamatocheir Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xx p. 188 1853.
Japan De Haan.
 M. MilneEdwards has elevated this species to distinct generic rank on what seem to me wholly inadequate characters.
A similar proceeding with other Sesarmm would result in the creation of nearly a dozen genera.
S. impressa MilneEdwards.
Sesarma impressa Edw. HLst.
Nat Crust ii p. 74 1837.
Locality unknown.
S indica MilneEdwards.
Sesarma indica Edw. Hist.
Nat.
Crust. i i p. 74 1837.
Indian Seas Edw.
 Ceylon and Nicobars Heller.
S. intermedia MilneEdwards ex De Haan.
Grapszis PacJiysoma intermedia De Haan op.
cit. p. 61 PI.
XVI f. 5 1835.
Sesarma intermedia Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xx p. 186 1853.
Sesarma Iceve A.
M.Edw. Bulletin 1. c p. 27 1869.
Japan De Haan Sliangliai Hong Kong Heller Arrow Is.
A.
M.Edw..
S. lafondi .Tacquinot et Lucas.
Sesarma lafondi Jacquinot et Lucas Voyage Astrolabe et Zelee Crast. p. 70 PI.
VI f. 4 1853.
Batavia J. and L..
S. leptosoma Hilgendorf.
Sesarma leptosoma Hilgendorf in Decken's Reise p. 91 PL VI f. 1 1869.
Zanzibar Hilgendorf.
S. lividv.m A. MilneEdwards.
Sesarma lividum A.
M.Edw. Bulletin 1. c p. 25 1869 N.
Arch. ix p. 303 PI.
XVI f. 2 1873.
Iew Caledonia A.
M.Edw..
S. longipes Krauss.
Sesarma longipes Krauss Slid Afric.
Crust. p. 444 PI.
Ill f. 2 1843 Umlass River S. Africa Krauss.
S. Mullerii A. MilneEdwards.
Sesarma mulleri A.
M.Edw. Bulletin 1. c p. 29 1869.
.
Desterro Brazil A.
M.Edw..
S. obesum Dana.
Sesarma obesum Dana Proc.
Pliiia.
Acad. 1851 p. 250 U. S. Expl.
Exped. Crust. p. 35d PI.
XXII f. 10.
Balabac Straits Dana.
S. oblonga Martens.
Sesarma oblonga Martens Monatsber.
Akad.
Wiss.
Berlin 1868 p. 611.
Philippines Martens S. obtusifrons Dana.
Sesarma obtusifrons Dana Proc.
Phila.
Acad 1851 p. 250  U S Expl.
Exped. Crust. p. 355 PI.
XXII f. 9 1852.
Sandwich Is.
Dana.
S. occidentalis Smith.
Sesarma occideyitalis Smith Trans.
Conn Acad ii p. 158 1870 West Coast of Central America Smith.
S. pentagona Hutton .
S. tetragona.
Sesarma pentagona Hutton Trans New Zealand lust 1875 p 279 Neci Zealand Hutton.
S. quadrata MilneEdwards ex Fabricius.
Ca7icer quadratus Fahr. Suppl.
Ent.
Syst. p. 341 1798.
Ocypoda plicata Bosc op.
cit. i p. 198 18033 teste A 3I.Edw..
Orapsus Pachysoma pictus et affinis De Haaii op.
cit. pp.
6166 183537.
Sesarma quadrata Edw. Hist.
Xat.
Crust. ii p. 75 1837.
Sesarma picta Krauss op.
cit. p. 45 1843 j. Japan De Haan  New Caledonia A.
M.Edw.
 Zanzibar Hilgendorfj.
S. recta Randall.
Sesarma recta Randall Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Pliila. viii p 123 1839.
Surinam
Randall.
S. reticulata Say.
Sesarma reticulata Say Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Pliila. i pp.
73 76 et 442 PI.
IV f. 6 1818.
Sesarma cinerea De Kay N. Y. Fauna Crust. p. 15 1842.
Virginia 
to Florida 
S. ricordi MilneEdwards.
Sesarma ricordi Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xx p. 183 ISoS.
Hayti Edw..
S. roberti MilneEJwards.
Sesarma reticulata McLeay in Smith Zool.
S. Africa p. 65 18  vix Say.
.
Sesarma roberti 'Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xx p. 183 1853.
Gori
Dr. Wilson  So.
Africa McLeay.
S. rotundata Hess.
Sesarma rotundata Hess 1. c p. 149 PI.
VI f. 9 1865.
Sydney Hess.
S. rotundifrons A. MilneEdwards.
Sesarma rotundifrons A.
M.Ed. Bulletin c. p. 30 1869.
Samoan Is.
A.
M.Edw..
S rupicola Stimpson.
Sesarma rupicola Stimpson Proc.
Phila.
Acad. 1858 p. 106.
Japan Stimpson.
S. schiittei Iless.
Sesarma schuttei Hess 1. c p. 150 PI.
VI f. 11 1865.
Sydney Australia Hess S. similis Hess  S. atrorubens.
Sesarma similis Hess 1. c p. 150 1865.
Sydney Australia.
S. sinensis MilneEdwards.
Sesarma sinensis Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xx p. 186 1853.
C7iina Edw..
.
S. smithii MilneEdwards.
Sesarma smithii Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xx p. 187 1853 Arch du Mus. vii p. 149 PI.
IX f. 2 1854.
Natal Edw.
 New Galedonia A.
M.Edw..
15 S. sulcata Smith.
Sesarma sulcata Smith Trans.
Coun.
Acad. ii p. 156 riSTO.
Corinto Nicaragua 
i .J.
A. McNiel Peab.
Acad.
S. taeniolata Miers ej White MS. Sesarma tceniolata White MS. Miers Proc.
Zool.
Soc. London 1877 p. 137.
Philippines
Dr. Wilson with White's label.
S. tetragona MilneE.lwards ex Fab icius.
Cancer tetragonon Fabriciiis Suppl.
Ent.
Syst. p. 341 fl798.
Grapautt tetragonon Latr. Hist.
Crust et Ins. vi p. 71 18034.
Sesarma tetragona Edw. Hist.
Nat.
Crust. ii p. 73 1837.
Zanzibar Hilgendorfj to New Caledonia A.
M.Edw..
S. trapezoida MilneEdwards.
Sesarma trapezoida Edw. Hist.
Nat.
Crust. ii p. 74 1837.
Locality unJcnown.
S. ungulata MilneEdwarJ.
Sesarma ungulata Edw. Ann Sci.
Nat.
IK xx p. 184 1853.
Celebes Edw..
S. vestita Stimpson Sesarma vestita Stimpson Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1858 p. 106.
Japan Stimpson.
S. villosum A. MilneEdwards.
Sesarma villosum A.
M.Edw. Bulletin 1. c p. 31 1869.
Samoan Is.
A.
M.Edw..
S. violacea Herklots.
Semrma violacea Herklots op.
cit. p. 10 PI.
I f. 9 1851.
West Africa
Du Chaillu.
Genus ARATTJS M.Edw. 1853.
Carapax trapezoidal elongate narrow behind sides straight entire  front deflexed verjbroad.
External maxillipeds as in Sesarma.
Ambulatoryfeet compressed the dactyli very shortA. pisoni MilneEdwards.
Sesarma ino Edw.. Hist.
Crust. ii p. 76 PI.
XVI f .
45 1837.
Ar a tus 2isoni Fidw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xx p. 187 1853.
Carapax transversely arcuate the branchial regions obliquely plicate.
Front vertical its margin twolobed.
Meros of chelipeds triquetral the margins denticulate the anterior one slightlexpanded distally.
Carpus externally granulate.
Hands everywhere granulate the fingers ornamented with pencils of stiff black hairs.
Florida
H. E. Webster Union College West Indies
many collectors and localities West Coast of Nicaragua
J.
A. McNiel Peab.
Acad Bio Janeiro Heller i  Praya Brazil Martens.
Genus CLISTOCCELOMA A. M.Edwards 1873.
Cavapax subquadrate sides dentate.
Subocular lobe large united to the front and excluding the antenna
from the orbit.
Meros of external maxillipeds short and rounded.
C. balansae A. MilneEdward.
Clistoca'lomn balanscv A.
M.Edw. Nouv.
Arch du Mus. ix p. 311 PI.
XVII f. 1 il873j.
New Caledonia A.
M.Edw..
Genus HELICE De Haan 1835.
Carapax quadrate front deflexed sides straight with one two or three teeth behind the orbital angle.
Antennaj entering the orbit.
Meros of external maxillipeds as long as or longer than the ischium its external distal angle prominent its distal border truncate.
Synopsis of Species.
Lateral margin with three teeth behind the angle of the orbit.
Ambulatory feet with a single distal spine on the meros.
A transverse ridge on the branchial regions.
tridens.
No transveree crest on the branchial regions.
Hands smooth.
spinicarpa.
Hands roughened.
latreiUei.
Meral joints of ambulatory feet with several spines.
dentipes.
Lateral margin twotoothed.
Hand strongly granulate.
gdiuUchaudi.
Hand nearly smooth.
Meral joints of ambulatory feet with a spine on the upper distal margin the hands of the male with a pilose spot at the base of the fingers.
pilimana.
Meral joints without spines hands of male without pilose spots.
crassa.
Lateral margin onetoothed.
gibba.
Imperfectly characterized.
leachii.
H. tridens De Hnan.
Helice tridens De Haan op.
cit. p. 57 PI.
XI f. 2 PI.
XVI f. 6 1835.
Carapax longitudinallstrongly convex punctate front curved downward its anterior border sinuate when vicAved from above.
Superior margin of the orbit sinuate oblique  lateral margin with three teeth behind the orbital angle the posterior tooth rudimentary.
Branchial regions with an oblique iidge running inward from this tooth.
Orbits coarsel' crenulate below.
Inferior borders of the meral joints of the cheliieds with small tubercles.
Carpus spined on the inside.
Hands externally smooth siibcristate and granulate above internally granulate  fingers excavate.
Carpal and propodal joints of the first two pairs of ambulatory feet pilose in front.
Japan
H. spinicarpa Edward.
H. spinicarpa Edwards Ami.
Sci.
Nat.
Ill xx p. 190 1853.
Locality unknown.
H. dentipes Heller.
Eelice dentipes Heller Novara Crust. p. 62 PI.
V f. 5.
Ceylon Heller.
H. latreillei Edwards.
Cyclogrupsus latreillei 'EvnwAs Hist.
Nat.
Crust. ii p. 80 1837.
Eelice Zamto Edwards Ann.
Sci.
Nat.
Ill xx p. 190 1853.
Mauritius Edwards.
H. gaudichaudi Edwards.
Eelice gaudichaudi Edwards Ann.
Sci.
Nat.
Ill xx p. 190 PI.
VII f. 6 1853.
Sumatra Edwards.
H. pilimana A. MilneEdwards.
Eelice pilimana Alph.
MilneEdwards Nouv.
Arch du Mus. ix p. 313 PI.
XVIII f. 1 1872.
New Caledonia A.
M.Edw..
H. orassa Dana.
Eelice crasm Dana Proe.
Phila.
Acad.
1851 p. 252 U.S. Ex.
Exp. Crust. p. 367 PI.
XXIII f. 8 1853.
E. lucasii Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat.
Ill xx p. 190 1853.
Carapax closely resembling that of B. tridens but with but two teeth behind the orbital angle.
Carpus of cheliped without an internal spine hands externally microscopically granulate more coarsely so internall the upper margin acute.
Carpal and propodal joints of the first two iairs of ambulator' feet pilose.
This is probably but a variety of H. tridens.
Small females show the elevated line on the hand characterizing H. lucasii.
New Zealand
Dr. Wilson Aukland Heller Australia Dana.
H. leachii Hess.
Eelice leacMi Hess Arcliiv fiir Naturgeschichte xxxi p. 153 1865.
Sydney Australia Hess.
Genus CYCLOGRAPSUS Edw.
1837restrict.
Gnathochasmus McLeay.
Carapax depressed sides arcuate entire front about half the width of the carapax.
Antenna not excluded from the orbit.
Meros of the external maxillipeds short about as long as the ischium its external angle well marked the palpus articulating with the anterior margin.
C. punctatus MilneEdwards.
Cyclograpsui punctatus Edw. Hist.
Nat.
Crust. ii p. 78 1837.
Gnathochasmus barbatus McLeay in Smith Zool.
S. Africa p. 65 1838.
Sesarma barbata Krauss Svid Af.
Crust. p. 45 PI.
Ill f. 3 1843.
Cyclograpsus audouinii lavauxit whitei granulosus et reynaudi Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat.
Ill xx p. 197 1853.
Cyclograpsus Imvis Hess Archiv fiir Naturjescliicbte xxxi p. 152 1865.
Oarapax smooth or slightl' granulate  sides arcuate in front straight behind.
Front broad nearly straight.
Orbits externally broadlemarginate the emarginatiou continuing backward as a groove for some distance.
Hands externallj' smooth internally with a prominent longitudinal ridge.
Male abdomen triangular regularly taiering from the third to the sixth joints the seventh much narrower than the sixth.
Neio Zealand
Guerin Australia
E. Wilson and Wiikes' Expedition
 Cape of Good Hope Madras Java Heller  New Guinea Edw..
C. granulatus Dana.
Cyclograpsus granulatus Dana Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1851 p. 251  U. S. Ex.
Exp.
Crust. p. 361 PL XXIII f. 4 1852.
Sandwich Is.
Dana.
C. cinereus Dana.
Cyclograpsus cinereus Dana Proc.
Acad.
1851 p. 251  U. S. Ex.
Exp.
Crust. p. 360 PI.
XXIII f. 3 1852.
Cyclograpsus eydouxiYdvf. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Ill xx p. 198 1853 Valparaiso and Sandwich Is.
Dana.
C. longipes Stimpson.
Cyclograpsus longipes Stimpson Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1858 p. 105.
Bo7iin Is.
Stimpson'.
C. integer MilneEdward.
Cyclograpsui integer Edw. Hist.
Nat.
Crust. ii p. 79 1837.
Florida
A. S. Packard Jr. Peab.
Acad.
 Brazil Edw..
Genus CHASMAGNATHUS DeHaan 1835.
Paraijrapsns Edw..
Carapax convex sides arcuate dentate front curved downward Antenna not excluded fi'om the orbit.
Meros of external maxillipeds longer than broad widest distall its anterior border slightly excavate the palpus medially articulated.
Sijnojjsis of Species.
Lateral margin with three tef th behind the orbital angle the posterior tooth inconspicuous.
convexus.
Lateral margin with two teeth.
Front rounded.
nrvillet.
Front nearly straight.
gaimardii.
Front excavate.
Carapax and chelipeds granulate.
granulatus.
Carapax and chelipeds smooth.
Epigastric lobes prominent.
Icevis.
Epigastric lobes inconspicuous.
suhquadratu Lateral margin with one post orbital totth.
quctdridentatui C. convexus DeHaan.
CMamagnatlms eonvexus DeHaan Fanna Japonica p. 55 PL VII f. 5 1835.
Jcifiin DeHaan  Eastern Seas Adams and White.
C. subquadratns Dunn.
CJiasmagnatTms siibquadratns Dana Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1851 p. 251  U. S. Fx.
Exp. Crust. p. 363 PL XXIIT f. 5 1852.
Ne
Zeulaiidf Avstraliaf Dana.
C laevis Dana 
C.
subqnadratus.
ChasmngnntMs laris Dana Proc.
Acad p. 252  Ex.
Exp. p. 365 PI.
XXIII f. 7 182.
Paraginpsus verremixi 'Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. HI xx p. 195 1853.
Paragrnpsus lavis Heller Novara Crust p. 55 1865.
Carapax slightly convex punctate  regions not defined.
Epigastric lobes prominenf.
Front deeply excavate in the middle when viewed from ahove.
Anterolateral teeth separated by narrow fissures.
Chelipeds everywliere smooth.
Anterior surface of carpus and propodus of first pair of ambnlatory feet tomentose.
Australia
Guerin  Nee Zealand Miers.
C. urvillei Kingsly ex MiTneEduaids.
Paragrapsus iirvillei'Edyf. Ann.
Sci.
Xat. Ill xx p. 196 1853.
Va n ikoro I.
 E d w.  .
C. granulatus Dara.
Clucsmognathns granulatus Dana Proc.
Acad. 1851 p. 251  U. S. Ex.
Exp. Crust. p. 364 PL XXIII f. 6 1852.
Helice granulata Heller Novara Crust. p. 61 1865.
Carapax convex distinctly areolate granulate  the granules on the branchial regions being larger  epigastric lobes obsolete.
Front curved downward and viewed from aboA'e deeply excavate.
Sides of carapax acute the fissures between the teeth being very slight  all of the border of the carapax finely crenulate.
Chelipeds externally granulate.
Carpus produced internally  the inner surface of the hand with a patch of granules on the inner surface.
Carpal joints of the ambulatorfeet longitudiually sulcate.
Bio Janeiro I Wilkes' Expedition Bio Grande Brazil
Capt.
Harrington Peabody Academy.
C gaimardi Milne Edwards.
Cydograpsus gaimardi'Edw. Hist.
Nat.
Crust. iip.
79 1837.
Paragrapsus gaimardi 'Edw. Ann.
Sci Nat.
Ill xx p. 196 1853 .
Australia Edwards.
C quadridentatus Kingsley  MilneEiUvards.
Paragrapsiis quadridentatus Edw. Ann.
Sci.
Nat. IH xx p 19.
1853.
Australia Edw..
Sub family Plagusinse Dana.'
Carapax flattened antennula
longitudinally plicate lodged in sinuses of the front and visible from above.
Gtnus PLAGUSIA Latr. 18ij restrict.
Meros of external maxilliped well developed as broad as the ischium.
P. speciosa Dana.
Caiapax arcuate covered everywhere with sqnamiform tubercles the inter paces being clothed with a short pubescence these tubercles Ijeing similar iu their arrangement to those of P. depressa Sa but much more depressed than in that species.
The margins of the interantennular portion of the front is simple.
Inferior margin of the orbit acute minutely denticulate.
Sides of carapax with two equal acute spiuiform teeth behind the angle of the orbit.
Feet closelresembling those of P.
depressa. the ornamentatio being similar but not so prominent.
The hands however are external
marked by six longitudinal impressed lines the lowest of them being on the inferior margin.
The fingers are widely gaping the extremities deeply excavate.
The dentiform process 1 This sub family having recently been revised by Mr. Miers Annals and Magazine of Natural Ilistoiy V ix pp.
147154 February 1878 and as I agree with his determinations and ideas of specific bmits I omit the synopsis of species from this paper merely giving a few notes on the more uncommon forms.
Oil the coxa of the third pair of aiiibulatoiy feet is niinutelj' denticulate.
The only additional character in the female is that the squainag of the carapax are more depressed.
Mr. Miers 1. c p. 151 remarks Only a carapax of this species is known.
The carapax referred to Dana's type was destroyed in the Chicago fire.
The Academy possesses two specimens male and female sent b Mr. Andrew Garrett from Tahiti.
Genus LEILOPHUS 1 Mirs 1876.
Acanthnpus DeHaan.
Meros of external maxillipeds very small and much narrower than the ischium.
L. pilimanus Miers ex A. M.Edw.
Specimens of this rare species are in the museum of the Academy from the Sandwich Is.
J. K. Townsend and Tahiti A. Garrett.
So far as I am aware the only other specimen in an collection is the type in Jardin des Plantes at Paris.
The British Museum has no specimens.
I am unable either from the poorness of the descriptions or possible inaccurac' of the figures to assign the following species to their proper generic positions.
Cyclograpsus 
tasmanicus Jacquiiiot et Lucas Voyage Astrolabe et Zelee Crustaces p. 76 PI.
VI f. 6 184253.
Tasmania J. et L..
Cyclograpsus minutus J. et L. 1. c p. To PI.
VI f. 8 184253.
Chili S. et L..
Grapsus inornaius Hess Archiv fiir Naturgescliichte xxxi p. 148 PI.
VI f. 11 1865.
Sydney Australia Hess.
Grapsus Tiuzardi Desmarest Consld.
sur les Crust. p. 131 1825.
Senegal Desmarest.
Cancer tridens Fabricius Suppl.
Eiit.
Syst. p. 340 1798.
E. Indies Fabricius.
Cancer Mspanus Herbst PI.
XXXVII f. 1 1796.
Goniograpsus pulcher Lockington Proc.
Cal.
Acad. vii p. 152 1876.
Lower California Lockington.
M. Henri MilneEdwards Archives du Museum vii p. 158 1854 mentions a genus Holograpsus possibly intending Holonietopus.
 In the dismemberment of the genus Plugusia of Latreille the name Plagusia should have been retained for this section.
June 1.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twentynine persons present.
A paper entitled  Description of a Partula supposed to be new from the Island of Moorea bj' W. D. Hartman M. D. was presented for publication.
The Treasurer having announced the reception of a gift of twenty thousand dollars from Jos.
Jeanes acting for the heirs of the late Joshua T. Jeanes who in an unsigned codicil to his will had indicated his intention of bequeathing that amount to the Academy the following preamble and resolutions were unanimously adopted  Whereas The late Mr. Joshua T. Jeanes in a codicil to his will bequeathed to tlie Academy twenty thousand doHars an act which may be regarded as significant of his appreciation and approval of the objects of the Society but left this codicil without his signature and therefore legally inoperative  and Whereas His executors have placed in possession of the Treasurer of the Academy the sum named thus manifesting their respect for the intention of their late brother in a most generous and affectionate manner  be it Eesolved That the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia highly appreciates and gratefully acknowledges the generosity of the executors of the late Joshua T. Jeanes in bestowing on the Academytwenty thousand dollars in compliance with his wish simply indicated.
Resolved That the money thus bountifully given to the Society be invested securely in the name of the Academyof Natuial Sciences of Philadelphia to constitute a distinct and permanent fund which shall be named the Joshua T. Jeanes Fund and the income thereof shall be applied towards defraj'ing the ordinary expenses of the Society.
Seiyenline Belts of Radnor ToirnsJup.
Delaware Co.  At the last meeting of the Mineralogical and Geological Section of the Academy' of Natural Sciences Theodore D. Rand read a paper on the Serientine Belts of Radnor Township Delaware Countj' and the adjacent rocks.
He adduced facts which he thought incompatible with Mr. Charles E. Hall's view that the middle belt consists of altei'ed Hudson River shales and stated that the belt was not continuous but was a succession of outcrops nearly east and west from each oUier the strike of which was wherever observable more N. E. and S. W. than the line joining them thus agreeing in stnicture with what Prof. Rogers states of the trap dykes north of the serpentine in Chester County.
He also called attention to the existence of two trap dykes or two branches of that extending through the Gulf Valley and to curious markings in quartz rock in the vicinity' suggestive of fossils in a formation reaarded as azoic.
o June 8.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twentjtwo persons jtresent.
A paper entitled  On the Development of Lemna minor by Wm.
Barbeck was presented for publication.
June 15.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Eighteen persons present.
A paper entitled  A Bibliographical Catalogue of the Genus Partula with observations on the Species b' W. D. Hartman M. D. was presented for publication.
June 22.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Eighteen persons present.
The deaths of AVni.
G. E. Agnew and Morris L. Ilallowell members were announced.
June 29.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Eleven persons present.
The deaths of B. F Lautenbach M. D. and Wm.
Kent Gilbert M. D. members were announced.
On some Hoviologies in Bnnodont Dentition  Dr. Harrison Allen in speaking of the teeth of the Carnivora Insectivora and Chiroptera dwelt upon the forms of the canines and premolars as being valuable guides in interpreting the plan of the molars.
He traced the shapes of the lastnamed teeth from the subconical form of the canine with its associated cusplets or cingules characterizing the canines up to the complicated figures of the molars.
Among the seals Leptonyx exhibits to the best advantage the figure resulting from the pronounced development of the anteroposterior cusplets and is of still greater interest inasmuch as the molars retain in all essential features the same parts.
In genera where the form of the molars is not so retained the manner after which the departure takes place in the upper jaw is as follows  1.
The buccal cingulum becomes developed.
2.
The buccal surface of the main' cusp is directed obliquelj backward and inward and at the same time becomes concave.
3.
In genera having the Wshaped pattern the first V answers to the concave obliquel placed buccal surface of the main cusp.
The second V is a vegetative repetition of the first and is formed from the posterior cusplet of the canine.
The W thus formed is a conspicuous feature in the molars of most Insectivora and Chiroptera.
It can be traced through its several stages of development from the Carnivora.
The genera of the Procyonidjne exhibit the transition adYantageously.
Tiie W of the upper jaw while forming a portion of the free undersurface of the crown is not functionally active as part of the grinder but is an extremeJij ohiiquehj placed portion of the ihearing buccal surface and is not articular.
The V V seen from the palatal side of tooth form the summits of two downwardprojecting prismoidal shearing columns.
Examined in relief from before backwards these columns are seen to be of different relative lengths.
In Vespertilio and Antrozous for example where the appearance of the under free surfaces of the crowns are almost identical conspicuous differences in the lengths of the columns are detected when the teeth are examined with the columns in anteroposterior relief.
Tiie elevations placed to the palatal side of the base of the columns are developments from the palatal fold of the cingulum of the caniniforni tooth.
If oue cingule be alone developed it lies to the median side of the first V. Should a second be present it lies in an analogous position to the second V and is much less pronounced than the first.
The differences in the forms of the lower molars are traceable to similar modifications of tlie simple cone and associated cusplets.
The second V is incomplete the anterior limb not joining the first to form a true W. There is no disposition to form a lingual outgrowth.
In its stead a tendency to backward projection from the base of the second V exists.
This projection is conveniently called the  heel  of the tooth and is always articular.
The forms of the canines and premolars are not as simple and imiform as theyat first sight appear.
They often present remarkable differences in their details.
This is especially true of these teeth in the Chiroptera.
The buccal approximal and median surfaces should be carefully studied in the different genera.
Full descriptions of these differences would be out of place in a communication of this kind.
One notable feature of many as seen in the canines is especially well developed in the bats viz. the junction of the buccal and palatal surfaces resulting in forming a thin compressed posterior edge.
This may receive the name of the  sabre  edge.
It is repeated and exaggerated in the last premolar and forms at least in Chiroptera other than the Pteropidse the  sectorial  surface of the tooth.
It constitutes a sharp obliquelj'placed ridge which is parallel with the last stroke of the first V and is doubtless serially homologous therewith.
The following were ordered to be printed 
