LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS.
With reference to the several articles contributed by each.
For Verbal Communications see Greneral Index.
Arango Rafael.
Description ef new species of Terrestrial MoUusca of Cuba 15 Buckley S. B. Quercus Durandii Buckley 121 Quercus rubra L. var.
Texana 123 Rhus cotinoides Nutt 125 Chapman Henry C M. D. Observations upon the Hippopotamus 126 On a Foetal Kangaroo and its Membranes 468 Heilprin Angelo.
Notes on the Tertiary Geology of the Southern United States  157 A Revision of the CisMississippi Tertiary Species of the United States 416 Remarks on the Molluscan Genera Hippagus Verticordia and Pecchiolia 423 Note on the Approximate Position of the Eocene Deposits of Maryland 444 A revision of the Tertiary Species of Area of the Eastern and Southern United States 448 Lockington W. N. List of the Fishes collected by Mr. W. J. Fisher upon the coast of Lower California 187677 with descriptions of new Species 113 McCook Rev.
H. C. The Honey Ants of the Garden of the Gods 17 The snare of the Ray Spider Epeira radiosa a new form of Orbweb 163 Ryder John A.
The Structure AfBnities and Species of Scolopendrella
79 Stearns R. E. C. Observations on Planorbis 92 Wachsmuth Chas.
and Frank Springer.
Revision of the Palseocrinoidea.
Part II Family Spheeroidocrinidse 177  S b 1  OF THE OP 1881.
January 4 1881.
Dr. Jos.
Leidy in the chair.
Twenty persons present.
Bhizopods as Food for Young Fishes.
 Prof. Leidy remarked that last September he had received a letter from Mr. S. A. Forbes of the Illinois State Laboratory of Natural History Normal Illinois stating that the 3'onng of some of the suckers Catastomidse Hijjentelium Myxostoma etc.  have the intestines packed with tests of Difflugia and Arcella Later Mr. Forbes sent two slides with some of the intestinal contents for examination.
The slide with food from the intestine of the largescaled Mullet Myxostoma macrolepidotum from Macinaw Creek contained the following species DiFPLiTGiA Globulosa
Shell of rather coarse sand with laroer orains around the mouth  mostly in the shape of the segment of an oval with the oral pole truncated.
Most numerous form.
Measurements of a number were cs follows  1.
Shell 0.18 mm.
long  0.162 broad  oral end 0.103 broad.
0.18 0.156 0.174 0.198 0.198 0.156 0.15 0.156 0.168 0.31 0.103 0.073 0.09 0.096 108 Difflugia acuminata
Shell mostly slightly unsymmetrical  some with a slight neck straight or slightly everted at the mouth  a few with 3 two points to the summit  usually of minute sand and comparatively smooth.
One oblique form noticed No.
G approaching D. constricfa.
1.
Shell 0.18 mm.
long  0.108 broad  oral end 0.06 broad.
2.
Shell of same size but with a short neck slightly erected and undulant at the border.
3.
Shell 0.18 mm.
long  0.114 broad  oral end 0.048 broad.
4. 
0.198   0.103   0.06  5. 
0.18   0.114   0.06  6.
' 0.163   0.09   0.06  Nos.
13 of fine sand and smooth  Nos.
46 of coarser sand.
The slide with food of Eremyzon succetta.
The material apparently consisted of the superficial sediment of the water and contained entomostracans rotifers dipterous larvae desmids diatoms etc. together with the following  DiPFLUGiA GLOBOLOSA.
Shell 0.15 mm.
long 0.138 broad oral end 0.078 broad.
Difflugia L0B08T0MA.
Shell with trilobed mouth 0.09 mm.
long 0.078 broad  mouth 0.03 wide.
Several measvired of the same size  others slightly smaller.
The most common species present.
Difflugia PYRiFORMis.
Shell 0.43 mm.
long 0.31 broad at mouth 0.09 broad.
Arcella vulgaris.
Variety with pitted shell.
Arcella discoides.
Shell 0.18 mm.
broad mouth 0.036 wide.
Another specimen 0.15 broad with mouth 0.054 wide.
Another rhizopod shell observed was diflferent from any previously noticed.
The shell had the form of that of Arcella discoides with no trace of the structure characteristic of that of Arcella but composed of a nearly colorless or pale yellowish chitinoid substance incorporated with minute spherical granules of uniform size darkly outlined scattered irregularl isolated or in little groups or chains straight or irregular and in pairs or up to five in number.
The specimens measured about 0.105 mm.
broad with the mouth 0.03 wide.
A chain of five granules of the shell measured 0.009 mm.
long.
It is certainly an interesting observation of Mr. Forbes to discover that the young suckers should use the rhizopod shells to olitain as nutriment their little stores of delicate protoplasm.
January 11.
Dr. John L. Le Conte in the chair.
Eighteen persons present.
A paper entitled Descriptions of new species of Terrestrial Mollusca of Cuba by Rafael Arango was presented for publication.
1881.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
11 January 18.
The President Dr. Ruschenberqer in the chair.
Twenty persons present.
January 25.
The President Dr. Ruschenberqer in the chair.
Twentyone persons present.
Jos.
J. Knox and Geo.
H. Rex M. D. were elected members.
Chas.
Velain of Paris was elected a correspondent.
February 1.
Mr. Geo.
W. Tryon Jr. in the chair.
Ten persons present.
February 8.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twentyseven persons present.
Note on Treeless Prairies.
 Mr. Thomas Meehan remarked that the absence of timber or arborescent growth on the grassy prairies of America still continued to be a matter of controversy but he believed that in the light of accumulating evidence we mipht now come to a positive decision in regard to the question.
The most prevalent belief had been that trees would not grow on these prairies  and we have had theories relating to soil or climate to show why they could not grow.
Then there were others who believed that trees did grow there in ancient times but had been burnt off and kept burnt off by annual fires.
Mr. Meehan considered in detail the authors who had propounded various theories and the distinguished men who had advocated them and said that it was evident climate could have nothing to do with the question because in these prairie regions there were often large belts of timber lands projected like huge arms into the grassy regions with precisely the same climatal conditions over both.
That the soil was not unfavorable was proved now by the artificial plantations everywhere successful and that the soil was unfavorable to the germination of tree seed as suggested by Prof. Whitney was on the face of it untenable from the foct that it required but the same conditions for the seeds of trees as for those of lierbaceous plants the number of species of which on the prairies was well known to be very large.
Another great gain to our present knowledge was that since the annual firing of the grass prairies had been discontinued by the advance of civilization the timber was everywhere encroaching on them.
Among the facts which he otfered in proof of this was a reference to p. 505 of the Yth Report of the Geological Survey of Indiana where Dr. Schneck shows how land which was once grassy prairie is now covered with a luxuriant growth of forest trees  to the evidence of Major Hotchkiss Geologist of Staunton Virginia that the Shenandoah Vallej' now heavily timbered was clear of trees in the early history of Virginia  to the discovery of buffalo bones in caves near Stroudsburg Pa. by Dr. Joseph Leidy  now a timbered region the buffalo only existing in open grassy countries   and to various traditions of settlers in some valleys now timbered that the land was originally clear of trees.
He pointed out that in all known parts of the United States at the present time except the arid regions where only droughtloving plants could exist the natural result of freedom was the succession of forest growth.
Seeds were scattered by winds or animals over acres of cleared land  if such land became neglected these again seeding in time extended the forest area continually'.
The tallest growing vegetation lilic trees crowded out the weaker and the forest naturally crowded out the lower growing and weaker herbaceous plants.
He illustrated this by reference to the neglected cottonfields of the Southern States.
From all this the speaker said that it was evident that there was nothing in Nature either now or in the past to prevent the gradual encroachment of the forest over the grassy plains till long before the white man came here the whole would have been completely covered by arborescent growth.
Were there any artificial causes equal to the exclusion of trees and jet permitting an herbaceous growth 
If we were to sow a piece of land in the autumn with some tree seed and some seeds of annuals the latter would be up flower mature and scatter their seed to the ground before the next autumn and many of these seeds would be washed into the earth or drawn into the eai'th by insects or small animals.
But tree seed would make young trees which would not again produce seed for ten or more years.
If now at the end of this first season a fire swept over the tract the seeds of the annuals which had found a slight earthy protection would come up again the next summer again seeding and extending the area.
The trees would be burned down and though perhaps many would sprout successive buinings would keep them confined to one place.
In short under annual burnings herbaceous plants could  Since the reading of the paper it has been brought to the attention of the author that the bones may have belonged to the Wood Buffalo.
still increase their area annually but trees could never get far beyond the line they had reached when the annual fire first commenced.
There could be no doubt that an annual burning in a tract destitute of forest growth would certainly prevent the spread of timber or of any plant that required more than a year to mature seed from the time of sowing.
Now if we look at the actual facts we find that the Indians did annually fire the prairies.
Father Hennepin the earliest writer on Indian habits noted that it was the practice in his time.
There is little doubt but this practice of annual burning has been one extending long into the past.
What object had they in these annual burnings 
They must have known that the buflTalo and other animals on which they were largely dependent for a living throve only on huge grassy plains and that it was to their interest to preserve these plains by every means in their power.
Low as their power of reasoning may be they could not but have perceived that while grassy herbage throve in spite of fires perhaps improved under the fiery ordeal trees could not follow on burned laud.
What could be more natural than that they would burn the prairies with the object of retaining food for their wild animals 
If we have no difficulty in reaching a positive conclusion so far we may now take a glance at the early geological times.
Mr. Meehan then referred to the researches of Worthen Whittlesley and others in Ohio Illinois and other prairie regions.
On the retreat of the great glacier the higher lands and drift formation were probably high and dry long before the immense lakes formed from the melting and turbid waters ceased to be.
It was tolerably well understood that many species of trees and other plants which required a temperate atmosphere retreated southward
 with the advance of the glacier and advanced to higher latitudes on the glacier's retreat.
Thus these higher ridges would become timbered long before the lower lands became dry.
Evidence accumulates that man existed on this continent in the far west not long after the glacier retreated though 'not long in a geological sense may mean many hundreds of years.
The lakes of glacial water would gradually become shallower from the deposit of the highly comminuted material brought down from higher land from the wearing away of rocky breastwoi'ks as in South Pass Illinois as well as from the openings which would continually occur from nature's ever varying plan of streams under ground.
In all events the drying of these lakes would be from their outward edges first.
Aquatics would give way to marsh grasses and these to vegetation such as we now find generally spread over the prairie region.
If now we can conceive of human beings such as we know the Indian races to be already in more southern latttudes  having learned the fact that firing would keep down trees and aid in the preservation of the chase  following the retreat of the glacier to the higher lands and still as they advanced northwardly firing the plains up to the water's edge it would certainly account for tlie absence of arboreal vegetation from these immense lacustrine lands from the verbeginning of their formation.
Of course with this view we should have to look for some evidences of man's existence both on the lands which were once under water as well as those which were timber lands at his first appearance there.
He did not know how many such evidences have been or ma be found.
Man's traces in the past are at best but rare and they would naturally be much more scarce in the lacustrine regions than in lands dry at the same epoch.
At any rate this part of his remarks he said must be taken as mere speculation  but as we could see on the basis of sound scientific investigation why there could be no trees on these grassy prairies within the range of indubitable history it was a fair inference that some such cause had continued from the beginning namely that annual fires had ever been the reason why arborescent vegetation had never had an existence there.
The resignation of Mr. Edw.
S. Whelen as a member of the Council and Finance Committee was read and accepted.
February 15.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Nineteen persons present.
A paper entitled  The Honey Ants of the Garden of the Gods by Rev.
Henry C. McCook D. D. was presented for publication.
February 22.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Thirtysix persons present.
The death of Harry C. Hart M. D. a member was announced.
Mr. Isaac C. Martindale was elected a member of the Finance Committee to fill a vacancy caused by the resignation of Mr. Edw.
S. Whelen.
Mr. Charles P. Perot was elected a member of the Council for the unexpired term of Mr. Whelen.
Robert P. Field was elected a member.
John Brazier of Sydne N. S. W.  Rafael Arango of Habana and Chas.
Mohr of Mobile Ala. were elected correspondents.
The following were ordered to be printed   1881.
15 DESCKIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF TERRESTRIAL MOLLUSCA OF CUBA.
BY RAFAEL ARANGO.
Choanopoma acervatnm Arango.
Testa obtecteumbilicata ovatooblonga plerumque decollata tenuis plicis transversis irregulariter et costulis spiralibus distantibus undulatiin et acervatiminterruptis lamellata albida anfractus 6 superstites 34 convexi lente acrescentes ad suturam canaliculatam ob plicarum extremitatem denticulati ultimus aufractui coutigui callo adnatus  apertura eircularis peritrema duplicatum interniim rectum externum patens concentrice striatum et ob costulas spirales testae undulatum ad anfractum contiguum Galium tbrmans turn umbilicum lamina lata fornicata tegens.
Long.
89  diam.
45 mill.
Differt ab Choan.
Tryoni Arango primo visu costulis spiralibus ab sordido imprimis plicis testas undulata interrupta.
Habitat.
 Las Lagunitas prope Pinar del Rio partis occidentalis in plantatione dicta  Yega de D. Manuel de Jesus Hernandez.
Cylindrella paradoza Arango.
Testa sine umbilico fusiformiturrita solidula albida costis subrectis confertis munita Integra apice obtusiuscula anfractus 1213 convexi penultimus longitudinaliter in medio canaliculatus ejusdem pars superior reliquis anfractibus igualis quoad sculpturam inferior angustior reducta costulis magis aproximatis dein dilatata et umbilicum tegens.
Apertura piriformis obliqua superne angustior ob carinam salientem partis superioris anfractus.
Peritrema continuum undique ffiqualiter expansum.
Columna interna simplex.
Long.
12  diam.
2 mill.
Habitat.
 Guane in loco  Puerta de la Muralla  dicto.
Cylindrella incerta Arango.
Testa quoad sculpturam et columnam internam simillima Cylindrellse cserulans Poey sed forma ventrosocylindracea et anfr.
superst.
8 in testa Integra 14.
Long.
18  diam.
4 testa Integra.
Long.
14i  diam.
4 testa fracta.
Habitat.
 Guane in loco  Puerta de la Muralla  dicto Ctenopoma nodiferum Arango n. sp.
Testa clausoperforata cylinclraceoturrita decollata tenuis plicis aequaliter distantibus et liris debilibus decussata cineracentialbida anfr.
34 superstites convexi lente accrescentes ad suturam canaliculatam subdenticulati  ultimus subdisjunctis pone aperturam callo lato cum penultimo anfractu junctus  apertura verticalis obliqua ovalis  peritrema duplicatum internum rectum externum subaequaliter patens sed superne dilatatum anfractum contiguum attingens et umbilicum claudens.
Operculum typicum generis.
Long testse truncatae 8  diam.
3  apert.
2 mill.
Simile Ctenopomati nodulato  sed differt testa plicis aequaliter distantibus nee acervatim approximatis et liras decussata.
Habitat.
 Sub lapidibus circa oppitum Santo Gristo de la Salud prope Bejucal.
Ctenopoma Wrightianam Gundl.
n. sp.
Testa subperforata cylindraceoturrita decollata costis sequaliter distantibus obtusis et liris subtilissimis decussata cineracentialbida anfr.
de superstites convexi lente accrescentes ad suturam canaliculatam denticulati  ultimus subdisjunctus pone aperturam callo lato cum penultimo anfractu junctus  apertura verticalis oblique ovalirotundato  peritrema duplicatum internum rectum externum subaequaliter patens sed superne non dilatatum itaque anfractum penultimum non attingens.
Operculum typicum generis.
Long testae truncatte 11  diam.
5  apert.
2 mill.
Proximum Ctenopomati ruguloso sed distinctum costis testse obtusis nee acutis et liris decussata.
Habitat.
 Sub lapidibus loci Punta de la Jaula dicti in Proviucia Pinar del Rio partis occidentalis.
THE HONEY ANTS OF THE GARDEN OF THE GODS.
By Rev.
Henry C. McCook D. D. I.
 Geographical Distribution The peculiarity in the Honey Ants Myrmecocystus melliger which has attracted the especial attention of naturalists is that one of the castes or worker forms has the abdomen distended to the size and form of a currant or small grape and entirely filled with grapesugar or  honey.
Yery little of their habits has heretofore been known and onl the forms of the hone3bearer and workermajor.
In order if possible to remove this reproach from Entomology I started in the early part of July A D. 18T9 for New Mexico as the honeyants have been found in the neighborliood of Santa Fe and even as far north as Abiquiu on the Big Chama River. During a brief visit at the cottage of Gen. Charles Adams  of Manitou Colorado which is located in the mouth of the Garden of the gods in the course of some observations made upon the ants of the vicinit' a nest was discovered whose external architecture was new to me.
The sentinels were called out hy the application of a straw and their general appearance raised the suspicion that they might be Honey Ants which as I had never seen specimens were known to me only b description.
The nest was opened and the delightful fact revealed that the objects of my search were before me.
I thereupon made an exploration of the vicinity and found that the nests were present in sufficient numbers for purposes of study  whereupon I abandoned m' New Mexico outfit encamped in the Garden of the gods and began the observations of which the following paper is the record.
Up to the time of my discovery it had not been known that the Honey Ants were distributed as far north as Colorado.
I found no formicaries at any other point in the State although the opportunity to search for them was limited.
There is little doubt  At the latter point Prof. Edward D. Cope informed me that he had seen them.
Dr. Loew and Ir.
Krummeck saw them near Santa Fe.
 Gen. Adams has recently been widely known by his intrepid venture among the hostile White River Ute Indians and rescue of their unhappy prisoners Mrs. Meeker and others at the risk of his own life.
As a recognition of this service he has been appointed Minister Plenipotentiary for the United States to the Republic of Bolivia 2 Matamoras Mex. 50  Lanostroth however that they ma be found in favorable locations in the entire soutliern portion of the state and perhaps also north of the latitude of Pike's Peak. Mexico New Mexico and southern Colorado may certainly be designated as the natural habitat of the Honey Ants.
It is probable however that they may be found throughout the entire southwestern portions of North America especiall the uplands.
They will doubtless be found west of the Rockj' Mountains as I have recently found one female of this species among a collection of Hymenoptera sent to Mr. Cresson from southern California.
The following facts can be presented concerning the vertical distribution   LiOOAiiTY.
Elevation.
Observer.
City of Mexico .
.
.
T482 feet Llave.
Brownsville U. S.  ' Santa Fe 7047  Loew Kummeck.
Abiquiu 5930  Cope.
Garden of the gods .
.
6181  McCook.
It will thus be seen that the points at which these insects have heretofore been found lie for the most part upon uplands ranging from 6000 to 7500 feet in height above sea level.
Mr. Langstroth's find is recorded as in the vicinity of Matamoras.
 If this means the near vicinity the fact prevents the generalization which one might otherwise have been tempted to form limiting the ants to the upland for Matamoras has but a slight elevation.
II.
 Nest Sites and Exterior Architecture.
The Honey Ants are domiciled in large numbers throughout the section of country known as the Garden of the gods.
The conformation of the surface here appears to be an important element in determining the habitat of the insects and deserves a brief notice.
The Garden of the gods embraces a 1 The matter of their distribution is a point to which the attention of entomologists and other naturalists is called and any information bearing thereupon will be of value.
 I could not lay hands upon the elevations of Matamoras which cannot vary much from that of Brownsville Texas on the opposite side of the river.
3 Proceed.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. vol.
vi 1852 p. 71.
1881.
19 space of about two miles in length by one in width the surface of which is broken into ridges crossing each other at various angles and crowned or bordered at the top by the red sandstone and conglomerate rocks whose peculiar shapes and likenesses to heathen deities have probabljsuggested the name given to this bit of landscape.
A rude idea of the topography may be had by drawing a horseshoe the toe toward the north  within the mouth of this let a second horseshoe be described occupying about onehalf the space in width and onethird in length.
Unite the toes of HV' 'ihri 'vfff.'w' Fis.
1. Sketchmap of the Garden of the gods.
the two shoes by a zigzag line and draw lines east and west on either side from the interior figure.
The western line of the outside shoe will represent the Manitou ridge which starts at the base of Pike's Peak.
The eastern line will indicate the cretaceous wall of the tableland known as the Mesa and the two walls of the Red Canyon.
The inner shoe has for its western line the Von Hagen ridge for its eastern the Adams ridge  the east and west lines will represent the general course of theridges which drop down from these two from the broken central ridge Prospect ridge represented hy the zigzag line and from the eastern face of Manitou ridge.
These ridges are composed of red sandstone which crops out freely forming vast ledges and cliffs.
The top soil where the rock is not exposed is a heavy gravel upon which grow tufts of gramma grass straggling bunches of grease wood Spanish bayonet low cedars and pine and in the little vales or nooks wild sunflowers wild roses and numerous small thickets and clusters ol' a scrub oak Quercus undulata.
These localities are indicated diagramatically in the sketchmap at Fig.
1.
All along the tops of these ridges and on the eastern and southeastern slopes the nests of the Honey Ants arc located PL I fig.
2 .
About ninety per cent of those found were on the tops of the ridges and every one on or near the summit or central line of the top.
The choosing of such a site may therefore be inferred to be a fixed habit of the ant.
The advantage of this location is apparent at least in the points of dryness and warmth.
I made several observations of the effects of the heavy July and August rain storms upon the exterior architecture which is a low gravelcovered moundlet penetrated at the centre by a tubular gallery or gate threefourths of an inch in diameter PI.
II figs 3 4.
The large gravelcovered mounds of the Occidental Ant Pogonomyrmex occidentalism Cresson numbers of which were built in the vallej of the Boiling Fountain Creek and in the nooks between the ridges were more or less damaged by the wash of the water.
Some were seriously injured one wholly swept away.
The only damage wrought upon the Honey Ant nests was a little beating down of the pellets of gravel within the gate.
There was no injury from the wash of the water and apparently no likelihood of any beyond that which the momentum of the raindrops could inflict as they dashed upon the nest and within the gate.
Throughout one storm during the entii'c progress of which a nest was watched several ants were stationed like sentinels within the gate around the upper margin PI.
Y fig.
25.
They were evidently on the look out for any damages to their home.
The disarrangement of a few pellets moved two of these sentinels to bring up bits of gravel and attempt repairs.
But there was little occasion for this although the force of the rain was great enough to cause a good deal of discomfort to the observer.
In half an hour the rain ceased the sun came out over Pike's Peak and a rainbow girdled the Mesa.
One workermajor crawled upon the crest of the nest stretched herself reared her head as though to snuff the fresh air then 1 This is a sketch of my camp from the point at which the Adams and Von Hagen ridges meet.
One of the antnests is seen in the foreground  others are indicated by the white circles on the crests of the ridges.
hurried down the gravel side and started at a swinging pace along the trail to a neighboring oak copse.
An hour afterward she had not returned and not another ant had left the net.
Several howcAer came out hut apparently were disturbed by a gale which followed the rain and returned.
On another occasion the slight disarrangement of the nest made bj' the rain was repaired immediately after the storm.
It amounted to a closing up of the greater part of the entrance by some of the displaced gravelstones along the crater.
The exterior architecture has been referred to as a small mouudlet of gravel. The largest seen was one on one of the ridges quite within the Garden  it measured arouhd the base thirtytwo inches in height three and onehalf inches length of northern slope four and onehalf inches PI.
II fig.
3.
The average dimension of the nests is something less than this.
The base diameter varies from ten to three and onethird inches the greatest number of nests measuring six and seven inches. The ordinarheight is from two to three inches.
The shape of the nests is a truncated cone.
The section across the top is about two inches in diameter.
In the centre is a tubular opening or gate fiom threefourths to seveneighths inch in diameter . III  Position or HoneyBearers in the JsTest.
Leaving the details of the architecture to a later period that habit which attaches the greatest interest to this insect viz.
 the storing of honey may be considered.
The first nest that was opened and called the  Bessie  nest for convenience of notation is on the terminal slope of Adams' ridge looking due south and quite near to the valley of the creek Fontaine qui Bouille.
The gravel had  Dr. Oscar Loew American Naturalist 1874 says of Melligera collected near Santa Fe that they make no hills like other ants.
A structure like a crater indicates where they live underground.
Every formicary seen by me had a decided elevation.
 I succeeded in bringing one of these mounds home nearly entire having fixed the gravel contents by liquid cement.
 Dr. Loew says of the nests near Santa Fe that the openings were the size of a quill.
It seems strange that such a difference should exist within localities so near each other.
 A little girl Bessie Root a guest in Gen. Adams' cottage whom I had enlisted in the search for anthills first reported to me the nest in which I found the lelligers.
not been penetrated to a depth oi more than six inches before a honojchamber was uncovered and the presence of the honeybearers indicated that a home of the true Hone' Ant had been found PL III fig.
5.
Within a domeroofed vault about three inches in width and threequarters to one inch in height hung the honebearers clinging by their feet to the roof.
Their yellow bodies stretched along the ceiling but the rotund abdomens hung down almost perfect globules of transpalrent tissue through which the ambercolored honey showed.
They looked like a cluster of small Delaware grapes or large currants.
Most of the abdomens were quite round but they were in various stages of fullness.
Upon some the external membrane of the abdomen was gathered in folds.
A few of the abdomens and especially those but little distended were of a white instead of amber color.
I have observed that the honeybearers in my artificial nests show the honey which has been gathered from white sugar quite white and translucent.
It is probable that the color becomes amber and even a wine color with age.
When the abdomen is full it fairly shines reflecting the light that falls upon it from the lamp.
With most of the honeybearers the abdomens hang downward without touching the ceiling except at the rotundity near the base and often not even at that point.
With some however the whole lower part of the abdomen rests against the roof PI.
IV fig.
13.
This appears to depend chiefly upon the contour of the perch and not upon the relative degree of comfort to the ant in the two positions.
The roof of the honeychamber is different in structure from the floor the latter being comparatively smooth while the former is rough being the natural granulated surface left after the picking away of the sandy soil.
This character of course enables the honeybearer to cling more easily and securely to her perch.
This position is not held by the mandibles clasping the rugose dome with their sharp teeth but almost exclusively by the feet whose claws hairs and pulvuli all doubtless contribute to the effect.
Judging from observations upon artificial nests and from the utter unwieldiness and helplessness of the fully charged bearers they are not much disposed to change their roost after once taking it at least after they have reached a considerable degree of rotundity.
But the statements generally made by writers that they are wholly unable to move and never change position are inferences without the facts.
They are not unable to move and in point of fact do occasionally move their positions.
Those whose abdomens are but half or even twothirds the full globose I have frequently seen coming out of their chambers ascending the galleries and moving freely about the surface.
Those with full globes can move about with no little agility when placed upon a table or when exposed in their nests to some unusual danger or alarm.
In the nests they slide along from point to point moving their feet sidewise and so make changes of position.
Fallen Honeybearers Helpless.
 If once they loosen their hold however and fall to the floor they seem ordinarily helpless to recover.
Numbers of my full honeybearers dropping from various causes or shaken down by thoughtless visitors laid upon the floor helpless resting upon the rotund abdomen bodies up antennae and feet in motion and seeming exceedingly uncomfortable.
Those who so fell as to have some object upon which to lay their feet as a clod or the surface of the jar fared better.
In very favorable positions a few recovered their roost.
But as a rule they were helpless remained stationary and so passed their lives which were evidently shortened by their position although some of them lived thus several months see PI.
YI fig.
32.
lY.
 Source of HoneySupply.
The rotunds do not elaborate the honey as has frequently been asserted.
I was not for a moment misled by this fancy being satisfied that in the nature of things they were sedentary and that their immense abdomens were charged by regurgitation from the workers who were the honey gatherers.
But whence do they obtain their supplies 
Not from Aphides at this season of the year at least.
I searched every bush and shrub in the vicinity including large numbers of wild rose bushes but failed to find any of these familiar and useful Emmet  herds.
Certainly at least the honey ants were not there drawing supplies from them.
It was not possible to trace the ants to these or other sources of food supply during the day for I found very soon that they were nocturnal insects.
Their nests were as silent and to all appearance empty as an abandoned habitation during the daytime.
I accordingly stationed myself beside a nest to await the nightfall.
This nest was located upon the summit of a ridge which from a peculiar formation of a rock upon it I named Eaglehead ridge and the nest Eaglehead nest.
At T.30 P. M. the sun was set and darkness had begun to gather.
A few ants appeared within the gate.
They advanced to the top followed by others  they puslied out upon the gravelled sides of the mound over which a goodly swarm of yellow insects was soon gathered.
There were no rotunds or semirotunds among these mustering squadrons  all were workers with normal abdomens.
Presently an ant left the mound and started over the ridge northward.
Another  several  a score followed until within a brief time a vast column was seen trailed along the ridge all moving in the same direction.
The evening had now become so far advanced that it was ditBcult to trace the column but b' stooping down close to the earth and using care not to alarm the ants I was able to do so.
The trail was somewhat winding but on the whole seemed to be chosen with some regard to avoiding the inequalities of the ridge.
I was not impressed however with the engineering skill of the insects in this matter.
At the distance of about fifty feet from the nest the column turned down the slope and entered a copse of scrub oak  Quercus undidata var.
 I traced a number of ants to a bush several feet within the thicket but failed to unravel the secret that night.
The next night a similar experience awaited me.
After a long careful but vain search I retired to my tent baffled.
The third night July 29 the ants of Eagle head next came out at 7.23 P. M. Those on Toadstone ridge to which I had assigned my assistant Johnson came out at 1.25 P. M. but did not begin to move until 7.44.
Johnson followed them but failed to find their feeding ground.
They moved north and eastward as did those of the Eagle head.
These latter began to move almost as soon as they came out.
Thej followed the same trail as on the previous evening the track having beem marked by me.
The movement was somewhat slower than before perhaps because the trail had been washed by a heavy rain during the afternoon.
There was no leader.
A dwarf worker kept in advance over the greater part of the track then a worker minor took the head of the column.
The two were separated from each other and the van of the column about eight to ten inches.
There was however not the slightest evidence of any leadership at any time in any part of the moving line although I carefully looked for such.
The ants directed tlieir movements to the same tree as on former forays reaching it in seventeen minutes at 7.40 P M. They distributed themselves along the tree hunting trunk branches leaves.
I could trace their forms but when it is remembered that I was wedged in among the thick low branches of this dwarf oak holding up a lantern with one hand and using the other to clear space for it  that the necessity' to avoid alarming the timid insects compelled me to retain ver'' inconvenient positions for a long time it will riot seem strange that I could find nothing satisfactory until between nine and ten o'clock.
At last in course of the slow investigations I reached the extreme end of a branch on the south side of the tree and found a number of ants engaged upon clusters of brownishred galls.
The ants were moving from gall to gall not tarrying for any length of time upon any.
They applied their mouth organs to the galls frequently.
The dimness of the light and the distance which I was compelled to keep prevented me from seeing anything more than this.
But it was plain that the were obtaining honey stores for in the lantern light it could be seen that their abdomens were alreadj much distended by the sweets which they had lapped.
The branch was carefully cut off without disturbing the ants taken to my tent and the movements of the insects observed during the remainder of the night the branch having been so placed as to prevent the escape of the ants who were 3'et easily under view.
They however were so preoccupied with their honey gathering that they made little effort to escape.
Directing attention to the galls it was seen that some of them were gradually exuding minute globules of a white transparent liquid which the ants greedily licked.
I tasted the liquor and found that it was verj' sweet and pleasant.
The object of the nocturn'al expedition of the ants and the source of their hone'supply were thus revealed.
These galls are of various sizes from that of a currant downward.
Most of them were of a Turk'shead shape some flattened spheres.
They are placed in groups of two and more along the stems of the branches  they are commonly of reddishbrown color marked with black patches but some of them are of a brighter tint almost rosecolor some of a livid yellow marked with black some almost green.
By cutting off a few of the clusters and removing them from the ants I saw that the sugar' sap issued from several points upon the gall which in some cases became beaded with six or more globules several times larger than a pinhead.
By removing these beads successively I found that during the night one gall gave out at least three series.
The continual flitting of the ants from branch to branch and gall to gall was thus explained  the successive exudations invited their frequent return to the galls from which they had formerly fed.
When the branch had first been brought to the tent some of the gallbearing twigs had been clipped off and placed within the artificial nests but received no attention from the ants.
Some of the bleeding galls were now introduced which were instantly covered by the ants and soon cleaned of their beaded sweets.
An examination of the first galls explained the reason for their neglect  they were sapless.
Nectarproducing Galls.
 A number of galls of various sorts and sizes was collected for dissection.
They were readily divided into two classes 1 the livid and greenish galls which were soft and entire  2 the darker colored ones which were hard unjnelding to the touch and pierced at one side by a small smooth regular cylindrical cavity.
It soon appeared that the bleeding of honey sap was confined to the first class.
Upon cutting away the soft pulpy fruit if it may be so termed a hard whitishgreen ovoid cell not unlike a cherry seed was found at the centre.
It was about oneeighth inch in diameter.
Lying outside of and against this in a little cavity I found in one gall a minute livinggrub PI.
Ill fig.
12.
The body was white of eleven segments the head tipped with a brownish hue.
The inner cell when opened showed a spherical cavity in which was a very minute gelatinous pyriform object which adhered to the side of the cavity.
I had no microscope with me and in lieu of facts can only conjecture that this may have been an embryonic form of an insect which matures later in the season.
 The hard galls were next dissected.
They are all pierced on one side invariably near the base figs.
10 11 by a circular opening made by the matured gallinsect in its escape.
Fig.
11 represents one of these a turbanshaped gall magnified about three times the natural size.
A section view of the gall fig.
10 shows that the exit hole eh penetrates the interior cellease which must therefore serve as the cocoon in which the pupa transforms.
Inside of some of these cells I found traces of a flossy texture.
The cells are commonly spherical but as in fig.
10 sometimes eggshaped.
They are separate from the rest of the gall from which they quite differ in appearance and are of a firmer substance.
In fig 10 the gall is threesixteenths of an inch in length of which the cell occupies twothirds that is oneeighth of an inch.
The largest gall observed had an outside measurement of threeeights inch long and the same across the top.
In one of the galls opened I found an imperfect insect imago which is identified b' Mr. E. T. Cresson as of the genus Cynips a true gallfl3 The specimen would not permit further identifitification.
At the meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science held in 1880 at Boston I had the pleasure of presenting the substance of this paper to the Entomological Section.
My account of the extravasation of the galls as above caused much comment the result of which was to confirm the accurac' of the observation which had been challenged.
Prof. C. V. Riley well known as an entomologist declared upon his own observations that many galls exude saccharine matter citing among others those of certain Phylloxerae on Hickory one of which he had named caryaegummosa on account of the abundance and stickiness of the exudation.
Mr. H. F. Bassett who has made extensive and careful studies of galls said that he had found many species of galls visited by ants  Specimens of the oakgall visited b' Melliger were sent to Mr. Riley concerning which he sa.js  The gall is one that is found quite commonly in the Rocky Mountain region on Quercus undu American Entomologist Dec 1880.
The following additional remarks will be interesting in this connection  Mr. E. P. Austin remarked that the chemical composition of sugar and woody fibre are the same and that sugar could be produced by conversion from woody fibre in the plant.
Dr. J. Li Le Conte said that he understood tannin to be a conjugation of gallic acid and sugar.
Mr. B. P. Mann suggested that some light might be thrown upon this foodsupply of the ants by the nature of much of the moisture which appears occasionally at night in great abundance on the leaves and other portions of plants and which is usually mistaken for dew.
This moisture it is said diflers from dew in being produced under circumstances which would not account for the formation of dew and in containing a perceptible quantity of sugar.
It is the ordinary watery excretion from the surface of the plant which under favorable conditions of the atmosphere collects in beads or in drops instead of evaporating as rapidly as it is formed.
lata as determined by Dr. Engelmann who sent me the same gall in 1874 though I had previonsl' collected it myself.
It is undoubtedl an undescribed gall and a Aery similar one occurs on the Quercus macrocarpa in the Mississippi vallej'.
It has the ordinary woody texture that belongs to so many Cynipidous oakstem galls and the architect develops in a paler cell that occupies a large part of the interior of the gall.
When fresh the gall is quite brightcolored inclining to crimson or scarlet.
It seldom attains a larger size than an ordinary pea and differs from similar galls in my cabinet by having frequently a rather broad flattened crown though this character is b' no means constant. NocTUENAL Habits.
 It has already been said that the ants collect the oakgall nectar by night.
Observations daily repeated upon a number of nests determined that they leave their nests for the oak thickets at or near V.30 o'clock P. M. and between that hour and 8 o'clock which is about the time of sunset in July and August.
PreAious to the departure the crater gate and exterior of the mound become graduall covered with swarms of insects whose yellow bodies quite hide the red gravel surface of the nest.
The marching of the honeygatherers has already been described but always there remained a very numerous force at home who were seen at all hours of the night on guard within and around the gate.
PI.
V fig.
25.
The return home began about or a little before midnight and continued until between four and five which was near da'light at that season.
One or two extracts from my field notes will indicate the facts on this point. 
11.30 P. M. Some ants returning home  the movement ver' slow and deliberate.
.
.
.
12.30.
Quite a number are now returning.
Some are also still going outward.
Numbers of workers patrol the moimd and vicinity challenging nearl' all incomers who have to stand the test and give the required satisfaction.
What is the antennal password 
None of the returning repletes are tolled bj the home sentries.
.
.
.
This morning at 410 A. M. the ants were seen coming in from the oak bushes most of them well laden but others not so full.
There are evidentl degrees of success in honeygathering among them.
Some of the dwarfs had very full abdomens.
.
.
.
4.30 A. M.  He suggests for the gall the name Cynips quercuBmellarm.
Am Ento Dec. 1880.
The ants are returning in numbers and rapidly moving from tlie brush to the nest.
It is about da3'light.
In these night observations the light of the lantern seemed to cause the ants in column no little disturbance.
They would go toward the lantern as it sat on the ground near the trail appear to examine it then move away.
It really seemed to confuse their ideas of locality and shake their confidence as to the site of the trail although no one was finally thrown off the track therebj'.
The sentries at home were alwaj's more or less excited by the light and delicate manipulation was everywhere required in order to preserve the natural conditions and get the natural behavior.
At no time were the ants seen during the day except when it rained and then onl' a few sentinels appeared at the gate.
Ordinarily the entrance as far as the eye could see was entireh' abandoned.
It is doubtful if Melliger can endure a great amount of sunlight and heat.
While excavating a nest a number of specimens were collected in a large empty glass bottle which was set aside fvr further use.
Not more than three minutes afterward when I took up the vessel to insert more specimens those already collected were dead.
The sun had killed them.
I was surprised at this uick fatal issue and tried to revive the insects  but no they Avere quite dead.
The sun was of the usual August temperature but the bottle was large and such a result in so brief a time argues extreme sensitiveness to the heat.
I have observed that the agricultural ants always avoided the noonda' heats of Texas which are certainlintense  and indeed all ants appear to me to shun more or less the midday fervor of the sun.
But Melliger doubtless is more susceptible to solar influences than most of her felloAvs.
It cannot therefore be wondered at that she seeks her food under the shelter of night.
Y.
Quality op the Ant Honey.
A number of the honeybearers were unavoidabl' injured and their abdomens broken during the excavations of the nests and I observed from these the qualitj' of the hone3 It is verpleasant with a peculiar aromatic flavor suggestive of beehone' and quite agreeable to me.
Dr. Loew describes it as having  an agreeable taste slightly acid in summer from a trace of formic acid but perfectly neutral in autumn and winter.''
It contains according 1 Op.
cit. p. 18. to this writer a little more water than the honey of bees and has therefore somewhat greater limpidity.
Fortunately the comosition of this anthoney has been subjected to a thorough chemical anal'sis by a competent authority Dr. Chas.
M. Wetherill. The experiments were made at the request of Dr. liCid' from specimens of 31. melligermexicanus collected hy Mr. Langstroth at Matamoras Mexico. These ants showed the variations observed b me in the distension of the abdomen and the amount and color of the honey.
Six of the averagesized honeybearers were weighed and showed the average weight of the honeybearer's bod alone without honey to be 0048 grammes and the average of hone'' in a single ant 0'3942 grammes.
The amount of honej was therefore 82 times greater in weight than the bod without tlie hone3 The density calculated for the ants filled with honey was 128 and for the bodies alone r05.
Dr. WetherilFs calculations expressed in English Troy weight would allow about six grains for the weight of each honeybearer.
It would thus require about one thousand 960 honeybearers to 3'ield one pound of honey Troy weight or about twelve hundred 1166 to yield a market or avoirdupois pound.
The sj'rup extracted from the ants had an agreeable sweet taste and an odor like that of the syrup of squills.
When set aside as removed it showed no trace of crystallization to the naked ee or under the microscope.
Under high powers fragments of organic tissue were seen.
When evaporated by the heat of steam it dried to a gumni mass which did not exhibit traces of crystallization after standing for a couple of weeks.
This mass was yery hydroscopic becoming quickly soft from the absorption of water from the atmosphere.
It dissolved without residue in ordinary alcohol leaving a residue in nearly absolute alcohol.
These solutions did not crystallize when set aside.
They had exactly the smell of perfumed bay rum.
After various tests which are described.
Dr. Wetherill analyzed by combustion with oxide of copper and chlorate of potassa a portion of the gum.ke substance which resulted after the anthonej had been left in vacuo for two weeks.
As this was not perfectly hard but of a sticky nature it was necessary to introduce it into the combustion 1 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philad. Vol.
VI pp.
Ill 112 1852.
' I have some of these still in good condition after twentynine years' preservation in alcohol.
tube upon a piece of glass.
049T of honey gave 0.306 of water and 0.684 of carbonic acid corresponding to a percentage of C  87535 H  6.841 O by loss 55634.
This corresponds as nearly as could be expected under the circumstances of the analysis with the formula of crystallized grape sugar C Hj OuDr. Wetherill who in this analysis was especially seeking light upon the origin of the anthoney thus announces his conclusion   It results I think from these experiments that the honej' contained in the Mexican ant is a nearly pure solution of the sugar so called of fruits which is in a state of hydration isomeric with grapesugar C12 Hu Ou and differing from grapesugar in not crystallizing.
It is certainly an interesting confirmation of the value of this reasoning from analjsis that the ants have been proved by field observations to have collected their honeydew as Dr. Wetherill concluded from the nectar of plants.
Thus the methods of cabinet and laboratorj and the objective studies of the field confirm and complete each other.
With regard to the acidity of the anthoney which has been referred to Dr. Wetherill found that it reacted slightly acid to blue litmus paper but want of material prevented satisfactory experiments.
He was in doubt as to whether it was formic acid or acetic from the oxidation of the alcohol in which the ants were preserved.
A portion of the alcohol reacting acid like the honey neutralized hj caustic potassa when distilled with sulphuric acid gave an aqueous acid liquid which on addition of nitrate of silver gave a whitish precipitate becoming black on boiling rendering the supposition of formic acid probable.
The uses to which the Mexicans and Indians put this anthonej' are various.
That they eat it freely and regard it as a delicate morsel is beyond doubt.
Prof.
Cope when in New Mexico had the ants offered to him upon a dish as a dainty relish.
The Mexicans Loew press the insects and use the gathered honey at their meals.
They also are said to prepare from it by fermentation an alcoholic liquor.
Again they are said Eclwards to apply the honey to bruised and swollen limbs ascribing to it great healing properties.
Dr. Loew's suggestion to beekeepers to test the commercial value of these ants as honey producers is wholly impracticable.
The difficulties of farming the colonies gathering the supplj' and the limited quantity of the product would prevent a profitable industiy.
The greatest number of honeybearers in a large colony taking ni' observations as a standard will not exceed six hundred which counting six grains of honej to the ant would be little more than onehalf pound avoirdupois.
Besides the sentiment against the use of honey thus taken from living insects which is worthy of all respect would not be overcome.
The Mexicans and Indians will therefore probably not be disturbed in their monopoly of the honeyproduct of the nests of Melliger.
YI.
Interior Architecture.
Gate Architecture.
 In order to determine the gate architecture  a term by which I characterize the structure of the nest nearest to the entrance  several formicaries were carefully opened and studied.
Four of these are here given as fair types of all.
It will be seen from these that a general similaritof plan prevails.
The gate itself is a single tubular opening in the centre of the mound from threefourths to seveneighths of an inch in diameter.
It is smooth within and penetrates the mound and the earth perpendicularly to a depth varying from three and onehalf to six inches.
This gate is funnelshaped at the top and the funnel PI.
lY  fig 14 F is gravellined differing therein from the lower part or nozzle of the gate fig.
18 N.
The nozgle descends perpendicularlj or with a slight slope for three inches more or less and then deflects at an angle more or less abrupt forming an arm A usually shorter than the nozzle.
This leads into a series of radiating galleries and rooms and the point of deflection may be called the vestibule Y.
These galleries and rooms appear to extend quite habituallj beneath and chiefl' in 'one direction from the gate.
There are indeed galleries immediately surrounding the gate on every side  but these appear to be limited except in the one direction within a radius of about eight to ten inches and to the same distance in depth.
These general statements may be illustrated and expanded by the following details of particular nests.
1.
Nest No.
7 fig.
19 was a small nest three and onethird inches in diameter.
The gate had a perpendicular depth from the surface of three inches.
Thence at nearly a right angle it bent southeast for two and onehalf inches forming the arm A and meeting at Y a series of branching galleries a 6 e d. Galler a bore westward terminating under the gate  6 bore southwest appearing to run upward toward the surface  c extended downward and southward at a sharp inclination entering a long roobo E was a small circular chamber at one end of which was a beautiful gallery running deep downward and inclining slightly west.
It was entered near by and above by another gallery d running toward the surface.
2.
Nest jSTo.
6 fig.
18.
The depth of the gate G was three inches  the length of the arm A two inches.
The gallery into which A opened toward b divided at one end with two branches separated at their mouths by a little column of two stones resting one upon the other.
The gallery c could be traced at least six inches downward and a gallery opened directly downward at a.
3.
Nest on Eaglehead Ridge PI.
V fig.
20.
This nest from Avhich many of my night studies were made was finally opened and the section view fig.
20 taken.
The vestibule as in the above examples also opened into a main gallery  which led to the northeast and joined a circular gallery which passed around the vestibule and terminated in an oval room A.
At the other end it entered a circle which widened upon one side into a bayroom and sent off a couple of branches one of which c was a chamber.
Two galleries g g opened downward.
Beyond this southward was a long waved gallery D D which ended at e e and branched at h. Galleries g g in this series also led downward.
No.
4.
Fig.
23 Nest No.
4 on Adams Ridge.
The diameter of this mound was three and onehalf inches at the top and seven inches at the bottom.
The vestibule sloped eastward from the summit downward three inches to the main gallery which had three branches x y and z  x was followed six inches northeast and upward  y extended sovithwest and downward  2 southeast and downward.
A gallery 1 ran upward from z and connected with X.
Another 2 opened on the southwest into a room.
A six inches long and three inches wide at the west end of which were galleries dividing north and south.
A third gallery separated from z at 3 and bent northward apparently uniting with a room A five inches long.
This room was entered again by a widened mouth.
Be about onehalf inch above z.
At the vestibule and upper part of z were a number of cocoons.
The room.
A was five inches below the surface of the ground at G. Galleries and HoneyRooms.
 The last figure gives an idea of the relation of some of the honeyrooms to the gate and the upper series of galleries.
These rooms lie at least as near to the surface as six and eight inclies.
Tliey vary in size but for the most part are about five or six inches in length and three or four in width.
They are irregular in their outlines but have a general tendency toward the oval.
One of tiie most irregular is figured at PI.
Y fig.
'21 HR a large chamber which lay nearly underneath the gate.
The gallery g g into which the vestibule opened debouched into tliis room and a portion of the gallery roof unbroken is shown at ug.
At B appeared a bayroom or enlargement of a gallery which penetrated the earth horizontally at one end and at the other seemed to wind into the vestibule.
The height of the rooms at the walls or sides is from onehalf to threefourths of an inch.
The roof is vaulted thus causing the height to increase gradually until at the centre it is one and onehalf inches which is the greatest distance that I measured.
Floors and Roof.
 The floors and walls are well nigli invariably smooth quite smooth some of them.
The roof on the contrary is rough presenting the natural condition after the sandy pellets of earth and the little pebbles had been picked out by the workers.
This can hardly be otherwise than b' purpose precisely as with the smoothness of the floors.
The roughness of the roof evidently greatly favors the use to which the honeybearers put it as a perch.
So the smoothness of the floor and walls much better adapts them for the use of gangways.
The amount of travel to and fro must be enormous it is true in a large formicary  but I cannot think that the resulting friction will account for the smoothness independently of the purposed masonry of the ants.
In the galleries the entire surface above and below is smooth a condition which might be anticipated on the ground of adaptation.
Galleries and Rooms.
 The galleries are tubular openings varying somewhat in size from onehalf to threefourths of an inch and even more in diameter.
A vertical section however uniformly shows a quite perfect circle.
The underground formicary ma be described in general terms as a system of galleries and rooms arranged in several horizontal series one above another approximating the order of  stories  in a house and intercommunicating at many points by vertical galleries.
The chai'acter of the interior architecture can perhaps be best shown further by giving somewhat in detail my studies of one nest.
The nest selected for exhaustive exploration was situated upon the summit of Adams Ridge just above the nook within which my camp was located.
Three entire days besides other portions of time were spent in this work by myself and assistant.
The nest interior sloped eastward and toward the base of the hill and occupied a space in round numbers eight feet long three feet high and one and onehalf feet wide the whole tunneled through the soft red sandstone rock of which the ridge consists.
This rock is much of it quite friable crumbling readily under the pressure of the hand but packs tightly under the stroke of mallet and chisel thus making difficult mining for men if not for ants.
Most of our work was done with the chisel and the galleries and rooms had to be worked out with knives.
 These thirtysix cubic feet of rock were fairly honeycombed by the series of galleries and chambers above referred to.
The dimensions of the exterior nest are as follows see PI.
IV fig.
15 Height north side 2i inches west side.
If inches east side.
If inches south side 1 inches distance across the top a e  10 inches distance around the base a  e c  29 inches  distance around the crater m o n r  S inches  eastern ridge of the crater v n  1inches  western ridge of crater m s   inch  distance across the gate at a 2  1 inch at s v  f inch  depth of the gate before bending 4 inches.
The mouth as appears from measurement was ovate PI.
IV fig.
14 but the entrance beyond was a circular tube.
The mound was removed and the soil carefully scraped away.
Close to the surface at the distance of onehalf to threefourths of an inch openings were found of various sizes from onefourth to one inch in diameter.
These openings occurred at various distances from the gate on all sides four and onehalf five five and onehalf eight eight and onehalf inches and upwards to ten inches on the northwest side eighteen inches on the south side and eightytwo inches on the southeast in which direction the formicary extended.
Toward the termination of the nest however thej' did not appear so near to the surface.
Section views were next had by cutting across the nest.
On the north side I found no galleries at a greater depth than eight inches.
On the south side the first cutting was made east and  While engaged upon this part of my work I was pleasantly surprised by a brief visit of Prof. A.
 Packard.
I am glad to be able thus to refer to his valuable testimony in confirmation of some of the statements of this paper.
west and thereafter the rock cleared away outwardly  until the end of the nest when the cutting was made inwardly from the starting point toward the gate.
The character of the architecture is the same throughout the entire nest so that the following views will suffice to typify all the interior.
The figures PI.
YI fig.
35 and PL Y figs.
16 17 give views of vertical and horizontal sections made from the gate southeast the lottom of the section being twentyone inches below the surface and the distance of the furthest point from the gate twentythree and onehalf inches.
Fig.
.3.5 PL YI is a front view of galleries looking south and exhibits a surface about seventeen inches in length by seven in height. The main series of galleries within this area are accurately shown but the connecting vertical galleries were broken away in the excavation and are not figured.
Fig.
16 is a vertical section showing the southwest and southeast sides of the excavation at the same point as the preceding figure part of which is included in this view. There are here shown the general tendency of the galleries   g toward stories arranged one above another  the relative position of the honeyrooms R R and the relation of the series to the large honeyrooms C D E shown fully at fig.
17.
The broken lines c I d and e h k show a series of rooms some of which were occupied by larvae and some by honejbearers.
The large rooms C D E Fig.
17 belong to the lowest series and are figured and described as fairly typical of all the honeyrooms and other chambers.
They were carefully uncovered by chisel and knife and after being sketched a plaster cast was taken of them which is preserved in my collection.''
These rooms were of ' Detailed measurements.
 a to G oj inches  G to d  11 inches  e to  10 inches  hto i  11 inches  k to 1  11 inches  m to   3 inches  b to e  2 inches  o to Z4 inches  p to q  14 inches  g to A  2X inches  t to Z  2 inches  o to r  3X inches  Ito    inches.
 Fig.
16 measurements.  to J  4 inches  c to d  10 inches  e to  4 inches  h to i  4X inches  i to k  A inches c to j  10 inches.
The gallery j appeared to connect upward with the lowest series of rooms efhk. '
I succeeded by vast painstaking and labor in securing a number of fine specimens of the architecture which were carefully packed in Vjoxes and committed to the Express Company at Colorado Springs.
The company received a heavy bill for transfjortation and delivered my beautiful and an irregular oval shape  in length five three and onehalf and six inches successively C D. E and were of an average width of about four inches Thev were not boilt upon a level the origin of C at h being three and onehalf inches above the middle point of D and six inches above the termination of E. A side gallery g g skirted two of the rooms and appeared to open upon a fourth chamber at F which however was too much broken in the digging to be identified.
Of course only the floor and part of the side walls of the rooms are shown but the roofs were vaulted and rough as already described and rose to the height of threefourths to one and onefourth inches.
Within them clinging to the roofs were packed the rotunds.
The number in each room averaged about thirty  and as there were at least ten chambers thus occupied the number of rotunds in the nest was certainly not less than three hundred.
Of far the greater proportion of these the abdomens were distended to a perfect sphere.
The Queen Room.
 I had the good fortune to capture the fertile queen of this colony.
She was found quite near the extreme end of the formicary in a nearly circular room four inches in diameter.
The series of galleries and honeyrooms which composed the formicary terminated in a single gallery fig.
22 g g g.
about eighteen inches long threefourths inch wide and onefourth inch deep.
The gallery sloped sharply with the slope of the hillside on which the nest was made.
Xear the middle part thereof was the queenroom C being seventytwo inches from the central gate and twentyeight and onehalf inches below the surface of the hiU.
Besides the queen the room contained a large number of naked grubs callows honeybearers and workers.
It is not improbable that the queen habitually dwelt in or near this room but it may be that during the successive attacks upon the nest the workers bore their queen still further and further from the point of danger until the limit was reached.
Ten inches below the queenroom the gallery g g g was continued until it finally terminated in a small circular chamber E or bay on the one side and on the opposite side a narrow galleryt g.
which curved upward.
This was the end of the formicary.
costly specimens at the Academy broken in pieces 
It was an act of gross carelessness which merits this notice as some specimens brooght home in my trunk survived even the baggage smashers.
It was eightytwo inches from the central gate forty and onehalf inches below the level of the main nest gate and twentynine and onehalf inches below the level of the hillside.
The entire length of the formicary from northwest to southeast was thus seven feet eight inches. VII.
QuEEisr Life.
The captured queen of the large excavated nest was transported to Philadelphia placed in one of my artificial nests a large glass globe and afforded several interesting observations npon her habits.
Her BodyGuard.
 After the usual custom of ants she was continually surrounded by a guard of workers PI.
VI fig.
29 var'iug in number but usually as many as twelve or twenty.
These attendants quite enclosed her and restricted her movements apparently watching and guarding her with great carefulness.
On one occasion when she escaped to the upper surface of the nest she was followed and seized by a workermijor who interlocked her mandibles with the queen's PI.
VI fig.
26 and dragged her down the gateway into the interior.
The royal lad gave only a passive resistance holding back somewhat heavily.
Depositing Eggs.
 I quote from my notes the description of this process the various stages of which I was also able to sketch. 
The queen has been laying a small heap of eggs.
She is now on a little elevation of earth surrounded by a number of workers of all castes some of whom lick her abdomen especially beneath and at the apex.
One meanwhile gives her food in the usual wa by regurgitation.
I see the tongues of the two insects overlap in the 1 While preparing clay models of some of the above examples of ant architecture for my cabinet of Insect Architecture in the Academy of Natural Sciences it was suggested that moulds be made from which plaster casts could be taken for the benefit of such other scientific collections and public museums as they might be wished for.
This I had done and the moulds are now in the hands of the Curator in charge of the Academy by whom they will be furnished ujion proper order at the cost of reproduction and packing as nearly as may be.
Five sjjecimeus are castviz. those figured at PL II fig.
4 and PL V figs.
IG 17 22 and 23.
They are cast natural size except fig.
16 which is half size.
The cost painted natural coloi' will be SIO fmthe set unpainted 6.
Orders should be sent to Charles F. Parker Curator in charge Academy of Natural Sciences Philadelphia Pa. U. S. A. act.
The queen's abdomen is raised high her head is stooped she lifts the abdomen up and down.
The workers have clustered under her body giving her somewhat the appearance of a successful candidate undergoing ' a chairing.'
She has changed her position  tlie workers follow quite surrounding her.
Two are beneath the abdomen which is depressed now the head being elevated.
The attendants sit down patiently to watch.
The keep their antennie moving continually while they amuse themselves by cleansing their persons.
The queen moves  a dwarf seizes a forefoot and attempts to control her course.
This and nipping  with the mandibles is the common mode by which the guard directs the queen's motions.
The eggs laid are in an irregular mass about oneeighth of an inch thick.
There are twenty to thirty minute yellowish ovoid objects which adhereto each other.
The workers surround the mass some appeared to lick it.
The queen straggles over the eggs places a foot upon the mass.
A dwarf seizes the foot hastily and draws it back while another worker catches up the eggmass and draws it aside.
The observation was made at 11.20 P.M. at 1 A. M. when I retired no change had occurred.
This is as much of this interesting behavior as I was able to observe in this female.
I have however seen the actual deposition of the eggs bj' a queen of Camponotus pennsylvanicus.
 VIII.
Acts of Beneficence.
In the natural sites the workers showed great interest in the preservation and removal of the rotunds dealing with them very much as with the larvae.
As the honeyrooms were opened and the rotunds disturbed from their roosts the workers of all castes rushed eagerl to them and dragged them into the unbroken interiors.
Sometimes several ants would join in removing one rotund pushing and pulling her along.
One sketch PI.
YI fig.
27 made in my notes represents a major pulling a rotund whom she has seized with her mandibles by the outer abdominal wall wliile a dwarfworker is mounted upon the globe standing upon her hind legs  atiptoe as it were pushing lustily.
Another sketch PL YI fig.
36 caught on the spot represents a workermajor dragging a rotund honeybearer up the perpendicular face 1 See a note in Proceed.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
of Pliila. 1879 p. 140. of a cutting made in the excavation of the nest.
The mandibles of the two insects were interlocked and the worker backed up the steep successfully drawing her protege.
This interest is maintained in the daily life of the formicar3 The workers were continually seen hovering about the rotunds as they hung from the roof of my nests or as they lay upon the floor cleansing their bodies.
It is evident that these creatures are regarded as dependents and as with the queen virgin females males and larvte are fed and tended by the active members of the community.
In all these cases the same communal instinct would of course control action giving at least the semblance of beneficence.
Lack of Individual Beneficence  But a great number of examples fell under notice which go to throw doubt upon the possession of any personal or individual sentiment as towards special cases of need outside of the above limit.
Some of these may deserve permanent record.
1.
In making up my artificial nests I placed in the natural soil which was closely packed down and then introduced the ants knowing that they would work out their own habitations.
The hone3'bearers were thus mingled upon the surface with the workers upon whom fell the entire task of digging galleries.
In this work and in the distribution of the excavated pellets there was much room for the exhibition of individual carefulness and tenderness toward the honeybearers.
Not a single such instance was noted although I watched closely and with some anxiety to discover such excellencies in my little friends.
On the contrary the exhibitions of an apparent cruel neglect and positive cruelty were many.
The grains of sand and soil were heaped around the rotunds PI.
YI fig.
31 until the poor creatures were literally buried alive.
It would have been easy for the busy masons to draw their fellows aside and thus carry on their work.
But it either never occurred to them to do so or the disposition was wanting.
2.
Again as the openings were made into the earth most of the rotunds not prevented as above managed to roll down the galleries and secure a place in the honeyrooms.
They were not observed to be aided in this by the workers and I believe that they attained their perches unaided.
Some of them on the route became fastened in the gangway in most uncomfortable positions.
heads downwards bodies awiy etc.
The workers passed by and over them continually for many days witliout the slightest apparent concern and certainly without a single observed effort to relieve their comrades who could readily have been extricated and drawn into the chambers.
3 .
1 1 frequently happened that the rotunds dropped or were shaken down from their perch against tlie roof to the floor.
These creatures remained in the positions in wliich they fell except when they chanced to so fall as to be able to clasp with their claws some clod of earth or bit of gravel or the rough surface of the projecting walls or roof.
In such case they either recovered their perch or placed themselves in comparatively comfortable postures.
The gieater number however fell upon the round abdomen in such wise tliat tlie body stood up quite erect PI.
YI fig.
32 leaving the legs thrust out unsuppoi'ted.
These unfortunates were faitlifully attended often cleansed and caressed but in no single instance did the workers attempt to right them and restore them to the roof.
Yet they were abundantly able to do so with little effort and the fallen rotunds were in sore need of help.
Some of these lived for two months and longer in this awkward position but it was ver CAndent that they were extremely uncomfortable.
When it was practicable to extend m' help to those near the surface it was eagerlj' accepted the offered stick or quill clasped by the mandibles sometimes assisted b the feet so firmhas to enable me to transfer the heav' creatures to any point even to lift them out of the nest.
Here again the idea or at least the act of helpfulness was lacking.
If we are to suppose the power of communicating their distress and desires to have been possessed by the bearers we must think the workers even yet more lacking in feeling and intelligence.
4.
One honej'bearer was partly buried under her perch that portion of the roof having fallen.
Her abdomen was quite covered by the fine sand' particles at the margin of the little landslide.
The task of rescuing her would have been easy to the workers but it was never undertaken A sketch PI.
YI fig.
28 was made shortly after the occurrence which shows one workerminor standing before the rotund with head and bod' erect antennae atent with evermark of curious interest in her deportment.
She watched the struggles and mute appeals as it seemed to me of her unhappy comrade who by great exertion had suc4 ceeded in heaving up the clod and then  passed by on the other side.''
Meanwhile a second worker Avas perched atop of the clod coolly and cosily comhing her backhair and antennae 
This tableau is simply characteristic of the ordinary behavior of the workers.
An aparent exception was noted in the case of a semirotund who was overtaken in a gangway by water with which I was supplying the community and stuck fast in a bed of mud.
For a long time the ivorkers who were incited to masonry as usual by the water suppl dug and traveled around and over the imbedded ant without notice of any sort.
Finally one stopped and licked the antennae and head of the prisoner who began to struggle and so dropped down a little into the gangway.
Meanwhile the firstcomer had left.
A second ant stopped applied the tongue a moment gave a little tug at the unfortunate and was off.
Still the stream of workers passed on.
Finally an additional pull from below was given by a concealed worker but when I closed the observation the ant was still imbedded in the mud within the gangway.
It was impossible to decide in this case whether the helpers noted were moved b' personal kindness or rather as is most likely by the same impulse which directs them in ordinary mason operations and toward supposed dead comrades.
Sir John Lubbock who has made interesting experiments and observations with a view to testing the presence of benevolent feeling in ants does not have a very high opinion of emmet charity but concludes that there are  individual differences and that among ants as with men there are Priests and Levites as well as Good Samaritans.
I am much inclined to the view that anything like individual benevolence as distinguished from tribal or communal benevolence does not exist.
The apparent special cases of beneficence outside the instinctive actions which lie within the line of formicary routine are so rare and so doubtful as to their cause that however loth I must decide against anything like a personal benevolent character on the part of my honeyants.
Such an example indeed as one of those cited by Lubbock viz. the neglect on the part of coformicarians to remove the decapitated heads of enemies from the limbs to which they are firmlj' clasped does not seem to me as remarkable as it does to 1 Journal of the Linnsean Society Zoology Vol.
XII p. 497.
2 Op.
cit.
p. 492.
Sir John.
I have often observed the same fact among various species and knowing by experience the difficulty of imloosing those formidable jaws clasped by their immense muscles in the rigor of death would charge it to inability rather than indisposition that these adhering death'sheads are not removed bj kindly offices of comrades.
But such examples as are here recorded together with kindred ones given by Lubbock may fairly be quoted against the existence of a personal benevolent character in ants.
However the question can by no means be regarded as settled.
Cleansing and Feeding Larv.
 One or two miscellaneous observations may perhaps be allowed a place in this connection.
The solicitude of the workers for the helpless larvje was a matter for continual admiration.
The offices of nurse do not seem to be confined to any one caste but the burden of dut appeared to be assumed bj' the dwarfs and next to them the minors.
When the grub is to be cleansed it is taken in the mouth turned by the fore pair of legs the antennae meanwhile touching and apparently aiding while the mandibles are applied over the grub their teeth apparentl working chieflj within the annular divisions of the several joints.
Doubtless this motion is accompanied by a free use of the tongue but this I did not observe.
When the grubs are to be fed the workers pass from one to another striding over them and standing among them PL YI fig.
34 as the lie in little groups.
The wee white things perk up their brownish yellow heads which thej' stretch out and move around evidently soliciting food.
Their nurses move from one to another apply the mouth for a moment and pass on.
At the slightest alarm the grubs are seized and hurried into the recesses of the nest.
Their position is frequently changed from higher to lower from outer to inner rooms and the reverse without any purpose which I could discover or imagine.
When this sort of transfer was not going on the nurses would often be engaged in shifting the position of their charges flitting restlessly among them picking them up turning them around putting them down again with an aimless uneasiness that bore an amusing likeness to the dandling which human infants undergo at the hands of certain joung mothers.
Toilet Habits.
 It has been said that the honebearers are cleansed by the workers.
This is the rule  bxit the rotunds are not wlioll dependent for this nion their fellows.
In one of m' formicaries the rotunds when placed within the light began to cleanse themselves without leaving their perch.
They held en to the roof by the two hind legs and one of the middle pair and used the other middle and the two fore legs in the usual manner of ants.i They were quite able thus to draw a leg through the spui'comb of one of the forefeet  to brush the head etc.
In one case I even saw a honeybearer performing the offices of the toilet upon a worker.
The latter held her mandibles apart while the rotund licked the mouth parts  and from thence proceeded to the vertex of the head.
Both insects were in a semirampant posture the meanwhile.
Fraternal Relations with Sister Colonies.
 A few experiments upon several nests quite widely separated showed that as in the case of some other ants the inmates of the same species fraternized completely and engaged within the artificial nests in the care of the larvae cocoons honeybearers and in all other formicary duties.
IX.
Economy of the HoneyBearers.
What is the economy of the remarkable structure and habit presented in the honeybearer 
The naturalist is shut out from all observations in natural site that might give answer to this question.
But from studies thus far made upon my artificial formicaries from structure and from reasonable analogy I hae little hesitation in saying that the economy is precisel that of the bee in storing honey within the comb.
The difference lies in the fact that the bee puts her store within inorganic the ant within organic matter  the bee within the waxen cell which her industry constructs the ant within the living tissue of her sister formicarian provided to her hands by the Creator.
The honey is held in reserve within its globular storeroom of animal tissue for times when the workers fail to gather food or the supply fails in Nature.
The queen the virgin females the males the teeming nursery of white grubs are all and always altogether dependent upon others for nurture.
During the winter months and in seasons when the honey supply is scant or wholly fails 1 See Toilet Habits of Ants in Agricultural Ants of Texas Ch.
VIII p. 135.
2 MoundMaking Ants of the Alleghenies p. 281. perhaps during the long rain seasons the entire famih must have food.
Precisely as the bee goes to the honeycomb in such emergencies the hone3ant goes to the honebearer.
There is to be sure a corresponding difference in the mode of eliciting the stored sweets.
The bee brealcs the cell and laps the honey.
The hungry ant places her mouth to that of the bearer from whose mouth it is received as it is regurgitated from the hone' crop.
The muscles of the abdomen act upon that organ as does the pressure of a lady's hand upon the eaudecologne within the elastic bulb of a toilet jet or spraying bottle.
It is forced up gathers in a little globule a honeydewdrop upon the filamentlike maxillse under the jaw whence it is lapped off by the waiting pensioners.
The admirable adaptation by which the ant's structure is fitted for this function will be noted further on.
It may be well to state such facts as appeared in various efforts to arrive at the truth of the above opinion viz. that the honej'bearers serve as storehouses of food for the inmates of the nest.
If these facts fall short of a complete deraonstiation they at least form a chain of evidence which creates a verv stronoprobability.
1.
Regurgitation of Honey.
 On the occasion of the discovery that the ants collected nectar from the oakgalls a branch upon wliich the foragers were at work was removed to my tent for stud'.
First however it was taken to the home site and a dwarf worker coaxed upon a leaf and laid on the nest.
She seemed much confused and evidently did not at first recoonize the fact that she was at home.
The workers around the gall who .were quite easily distinguished b' the smaller size of their abdomens also showed marks of surprise at this im expected arrival.
However two dwarfs and a minor soon sufficiently recovered their equanimity to arrest their fellow and  take toll  from her mouth of the syrup with which her crop was well charged.
PI.
Y fig.
24.
The mode was that which is common among ants and has been fulty described. A worker major was next transferred from the bush to the nest and showed the same confusion at this unexpected  railroading  home.
She also was tolled b the ants clustering upon the mound.
In both cases I saw the drop of liquid honey sparlding as it passed a lantern having been placed on each side thus throwing light fullupon  See MoundMaking Ants p. 275. the oroup.
The major after her first confuseTl hesitation seeiued inclined to start again on the trail but after being tolled entered the gate.
It thus appeared at the outset that the honey collected by the foraging parties is served out to the sentinels working parties and others at the nest precisely as has been fully shown in the case of the moundmaking ants of the Alleghenies.
 2.
The act of receiving supplies from the hone'bearer was observed by me soon after the transfer of the ants to an artificial nest.
The rotund threw her head up raised her thorax and regurgitated a large drop of amber liquid which hung upon the mouth and palps.
At first two ants were feeding  a major who was in a position similar to that of the rotund and a dwarf who stood upon her hind legs and reached up from below.
During the feeding another major was attracted to the banquet and obtained her share by reaching over the back of the first worker indeed partly standing upon her and thrusting her mouth into the common  dish.
PI.
Y fig.
24.
The mandibles and maxillge of the pensioners serve as a sort of dish upon which a particle of honey is taken and afterward is licked oft more at leisure.
3.
Workers fond of the stored Honey  The fondness of the workers for the store within the rotunds was strikingly shown during the excavation of a nest.
Necessaril in breaking down the rooms the distended abdomens of some of the honey bearers were ruptured.
The high state of excitement which pervaded the colony the ordinary instinct to defend the nest and preserve the larvae cocoons and other dependents were at once suspended in the presence of this delicious temptation and amid the ruins of their home the workers paused clustered in large groups around the unfortunate comrade and greedily lapped the sweets from the honeymoistened spot.
It was a pitiful sight to see and was noted with a mild sort of indignation and to the disparagement of the ants until I remembered that history has often recorded' and indeed I myself have seen the humiliating fact that human beings have exhibited a like greed and ignoble selfgratification amid the perils and threatened wreck of their country and homes.
Treatment of Dead Rotunds.
 Over against this fact may be placed one seemingly more to the credit of our Melligera.
From time to time the honejbeai'ers died.
The bodies of those who perished upon their perch would hang to the roof for dajs before 1 Op.
cit. p. 377. the deathgrip finally relaxed and they fell.
It happened more than once that the workers failed to perceive the change and for some time a day or more after death continued to cleanse and tend them with the accustomed solicitude.
When the fact was at last perceived and the dead removed the round abdomen was first severed from the thorax by clipping the petiole then the parts were separately removed to the  cemetery that common dumpingground for the dead which these ants like all others whom I have observed invariably maintained.
In view of the fact last recorded it seemed curious that the stored treasures of these  honeypots  were not secured by cutting the sealing tissue.
In point of fact this was never seen to be done and the amber globes were pulled up galleries rolled along rooms and bowled into the graveyard along with the juiceless legs heads and other members.
I verily believe that they were never once deliberately opened in spite of their tempting contents.
If this act were the result of an instinctive sentiment by which Nature guarantees protection to the living honeybearer and this indeed is likely it must soem to us very beautiful and praiseworthy.
But what if it were only the consequence of a mentalism so low and fixed within its instinctive ruts as to hinder even a suggestion of utilizing the wasting store by opening the abdomen 
4.
Effects of Withholding Food  In order to determine be3'ond doubt the relations of the honey bearers to the other ants I made a number of experiments which I regret to say led to no decided conclusion.
 One or two of them however gave results of some value.
A number of rotunds and workers were placed in a nest' and denied all food.
A little water was allowed them but for more than four months their fast was not otherwise broken.
 Au unusual press of professional and domestic duties during the winter of '7980 absorbed even my eveniugs and those leisure hours which I feel at liberty to devote to natural history.
I was thus unable to give to my little friends that attention which might have assured a complete success.
On one occasion just as a long series of preparations promised satisfactory results a family bereavement intervened and when it was possible to resume observations the hour of advantage had passed.
Then followed the untimely destruction of my captives as will be related hereafter and the estopment of all study.
Naturalists at least will know how to estimate the various ordinary as well as extraordinary interruptions and hindrances with which the observer has to contend and which often prevent the most satisfactory results.
It was 1113hope that this prolonged separation from external food supplies would compel the workers to resort to the hone'bearers for food and thus afford the positive proof that the latter were the natural storehouses of the colonj'.
Most provokin.
the perverse Melligei'S made the room of the hone'bearers within the very heart of the nest and no strategy of mine could tempt more than one or two of the rotunds into a position under m' e3'es.
I was therefore limited to such inferences as might be drawn fi'om the general condition of the inmates during and at the close of the fast.
During the entire four months the workers whose movements were of course observable were in perfect health and good condition.
Indeed it was very evident that they were in a more healthy state more vigorous and active than the inmates of the other nests.
When the nest was finally opened the remaining workers had wellfilled abdomens all of them looking more like foragers freshly returned from a banquet of nectar among the oak galls than like the victims of a fourmonths' seige.
The abdomens of the honeybearers were undoubtedh' diminished but presented little appearance of having been largely drawn upon by hungry workers.
The complement of this experiment over a nest of workers who were wholly separated from honeybearers and denied food came to an untimely end.
The purpose had been to make such a comparison between the two sets of workers as would have shown what effect the presence of houejbeaArs had upon the abdomens.
5.
Covering obnoxious matter.
 Two other formicaries were established with the special purpose of determining whether the workers habitually transferred food to the sedentary insects upon the roof.
One colony was fed syrup mixed with carmine the expectation being that if the ants ate this and fed it to the honeybearers the color would show through their abdomens or be discovered by dissection.
The experiment failed as to its main  lurpose but was the occasion of uncovering an interesting trait.
Che carmiuesj'rup was obnoxious to the ants.
Some tasted it turned awa' and rubbed their mouth parts upon the earth with evident tokens of dislike.
Others tested it with their antennje and although they had been prepared for a banquet by previous fasting refused to eat.
Moreover they instantly deliberateh' and with one accord set to work to cover up the offensive material.
The syrup had been placed upon large corks hollowed out atop into little dishes and set in the soil.
One cork projected an inch above the surface and up this the workers climbed carrj'iug pellets of earth and gravel from the Aery bottom of the nest four inches below the surface.
These pellets they dropped into the syrup until the dish was filled and heaped up high.
Some of the bits of gravel were quite large of greater bulk and several times heavier than the ants.
As the nests were made of their native soil I thus saw the ease with which the workers carrup the gravel stones that cover their mounds PI.
YI fig 30.
A broad trail of srup was forced down one side of the cork and it also was covered.
This required more delicate management as the ants weie forced to support themselves upon the perpendicular surface of the cork and working sidewise daub the dirt into the syrup and fix it there 
The whole trail was thus covered from top to bottom.
The sjrup was fed to another formicary with precisely the same results.
This was not the only occasion on which food given the ants was thus served.
A crushed grape and a juicj' bit of a pear were covered in the sajne way in four of the nests.
The fruit did not seem to be relished hy the ants yet I am not sure that the juice may not afterwards have been lapped from the soil which absorbed it.
White sugar the ants took freely  bees' honey was not so much relished.
In the meanwhile during the progress of these observations I found that the semirotunds at least were not wholly dependent for food upon the workers as they partook freely of the sugar.
But I never saw a honevbearer one of full rotundity taking food or drink.
 One might imagine that they are quite independent of outside supplies after thehave once reached that state and could spend the remainder of their lives unless greatly prolonged without eating.
The question of chief interest here is  are thej' brought to that state b' the deliberate action of workers in feeding them 
I believe that after a certain point of distension this is the case.
But the belief does not yet rest upon positive demonstration.
We now proceed to the anatomy of the creature which may aflford some additional light upon this question.
 I substituted for carmine Pmssian blue which Dr. Forel had used for staining living ants Fouvmis de la Suisse p. 110 but had no better success although some of the ants fed upon the colored sweets.
50 PRO0EEDINO8 OP THE ACADEMY OP 1881.
X. Anatomy op the Alimentary Canal in the HoneyAnt.
These questions closely related required answer  I.
Are the honejbearers a distinct caste 
II.
How is the peculiar dilated condition of the abdomen to be accounted for 
III.
What is the condition of the digestive organs in the abdomen of the hone3bearer 
There are some field observations that have a bearing upon these questions  1.
The workers observed returning from foraging excursions had largely inflated abdomens.
This is an ordinary experience with ants  the workers of Foi'mica exsectoides our movintain moundbuilders for example returning from attendance upon the Aphides with their props very much swollen.
The workers of Melliger however seem to have an especial elasticity of the crop which gave the abdomens of some of the returning repletes a nearly semirotundity.
2.
These repletes and semirotunds in my artificial nests adopted in a measure the sedentary habits of the honey bearers and perched upon the roofs where they hung quite persistently.
They were often very sluggish but more ready to move than the rotunds and at times showed much activit' though not greatl' disposed to work.
See PI.
Ill fig.
6.
3.
In the formicaries opened in natural site I observed what Llave had seen from his specimens that there were several degrees in the sizes of the honeybearers in the honejrooms.
4.
There was an apparent growth in the abdomens of the sedentary' workers in the artificial nests.
As early as September 7th 18T9 1 made this record in m notebook It begins to dawn upon me that the worker majors become honeybearers.
Many of them hang in the nests to the honeyrooms.
In 'B ' nest the entire line along the upper margin of the large room is composed of this rank.
Honey bearers with abdomens distended from onehalf to twothirds the full size were continually noted and I could onljinfer that they were recruited from the number of the sedentary majors.
In fact it became difficult to mark the individuals in whom the sedentary major ceased and the honeybearer began.
5.
A series of experiments was attempted to solve this point.
Semirotunds or sedentary majors were separated freely fed and their growth noted.
They never exceeded the condition of about twothirds the usual spherical abdomen.
What the result would have been had the'' lived the entire year and how long it would have taken them to attain the rotund condition can only be guessed. 6.
Among the callows or young ants collected I could find no evidence at all of a separate honeybearer caste.
Among the larvae there were some large broad grubs that differed much from the others which I supposed to be queengrubs.
I was not able to hatch these and the cocoons and observe results a process which would probably determine the whole inquiry.
The cocoons collected were all of three sizes corresponding in length to the workers major minor and dwarf or minim as this smallest caste might perhaps be called.
Y.
A comparison of the workers with the honey bearer shows that there is absolutel' no difference between them except in the distended condition of the abdomen.
The measurements as to length and size of head length of legs and thorax are precisely the same.
This appears to be true also of some of the smaller rotunds and the minors.
My conclusion from the above facts is that the worker majors for the most part and sometimes the minors are transformed by the gradual distention of the crop and expansion of the abdomen into the honeybearers and that the latter do not compose a distinct caste.
 It is probable however that some of the majors have a special tendency to this change by reason of some peculiar structure or form of the intestine and abdominal walls.
8.
Finally I undertook an anatomical comparison of the honeybearers and workers.
I made a large number of dissections which were carefully studied and compared and these observations  Some observer upon the field might readily take up these and other experiments and carry them to a satisfactory conclusion.
There are invalids at Colorado Springs and Manitou who might follow the admirable example of the late Mr. Moggridge at Mentone and find both enjoyment and prolonged life in some such studies. '
I am glad to be confirmed in this opinion by Dr. Aug. Forel to whom I early sent specimens and notes and who has shown a gratifying interest in these studies and has cordially aided them by valuable suggestions.
See a communication to the MorphologicoPhysiological Society of Munich in Aerztlichen IntelligenzBlatte Jan'y 1880. strengthened I niiobt almost say entirely confirmed my opinion.'
Some of the results thus obtained will have value to many students and they are therefore briefly presented here.
Without entering fully into anatomical and histological details enough will be given to confirm and explain the facts related and opinions stated above.
The Alimentary or Intestinal Canal.
 The whole eoui'se of the alimentary tract from the mouth to the anus was carefully worked out in many dissections.
Less attention was given to the head  the pharynx and mouth parts were however worked out.
Attention Avas of course chiefly directed to the abdomen and contents.
The intestinal canal is composed of the following parts  I.
Within the head there are   1.
The mouth and the mouthparts viz.
 the mandibles Plate VII figs.
37 38 w6.which are armed with teeth of irregular size  the maxillse mx and maxillary palps mx.
p  the labium Ib. and lower lip the labial palps lb.
p. and the tongue to.
 2.
The buccal sac fig.
51 6c.s a spherical expansion at the anterior part of the pharynx in the middle of the front part of the head.
Its function is not determined. It is frequently found filled or partly filled with various amorphous particles the debris of food etc.
Brants who first discovered it in the wasps supposes that it may serve those insects in the preparation of their papernests.
Forel conjectures that it may serve the purpose of a special digestion for the anterior part of the body.
Lubbock once found in it an entire worm.
It would appear to be a sort of anatomical  Botany bay for the temporary seclusion of such food material as may not be prepared to yield the juices which alone pass into the crop. '
I mounted many of my preparations for more leisui'ely study under the microscope and they have been submitted to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
I acknowledge here the assistance and advice of Prof. J. Gibbons Hunt M. D in these studies whose unrivaled skill as a microscopist was cordially placed at my disposal.
 The referencesymbols are uniform in all the figures and are for the most part such abbreviations of the names of the parts as may aid the memory in studying the plates.
See the key to reference symbols.
 2 See Forel Swiss Ants p. 109  Lubbock Microscop.
Jour. London 1877 p. 139  Agricultural Ants of Texas p. 119.
 .3.
The phannx fig.
51 px.
a strongly miisculav vrall situated within tlie head in front of the neck nk.
II.
Within the body there is the oesophagus ce.
fig 52 a muscular tube or canal which passes through the neck and petiole and connects the head with the abdomen.
III.
The parts within the abdomen which most concern us are  1.
Segmental Plates of Abdomen.
 It is first necessary to understand the structure of the wall of the abdomen.
This consists of ten strongly chitinous segmental plates five dorsal and five ventral PI.
Til figs.
53 54.
These overlap one another like scales from the base toward the apex and the dorsal plates overlap the ventral.
The last plates which guard the cloacal cavit' are known as the pA'gidium py and the h3'pop3'gium hy.
The anus in Melliger is surrounded by a circle of strong bristlelike hairs.
These plates in the normal condition of the abdomen are set upon if I may so say a stronglmuscular inner wall which is highlj elastic in all ants particularly of the Formicida.
This elasticity' appears to reach its extreme point in Melliger.
In ordinary excessive feeding the distension of the crop causes the expansion of the muscular coat between the plates which are thus forced apart at various degrees of separation according to the amount of food taken until in the case of the honeybearer of Melliger the three middle plates Nos.
2 3 4 are wholl isolated appearing as Forel has well said like little islands on the terselstretched light colored abdominal membrane.
Plate YII fio.
54 D2 3 V2 3 Plate X figs.
72 73.
Plates Dl Yl retain their normal position and plates D4 Y4 are not so wideh' separated from D5 Y5 as from their next anterior plates.
We may now view the abdominal portion of the intestinal tract in order to understand what happens in the growth of the honevbearer.
 2.
The Crop or Ingluvies.
 The crop is the anterior and superior subdivision of the abdominal portion of the alimentarcanal.
It is simply an expansion of the jesophagus within the abdomen.
The normal condition of the crop was determined bv examination of the workers with undistended abdomens and more readil' from the stud' of a virgin queen PL YIII fig.
59 'Forel quoting Meinert speaks of the muscularization as feeble  but in Melliger at least the muscles appear to be sufficiently strono.
The ocspliagiis ce is there seen passing through and bent over the hard ring J71 which forms the junction of the petiole and abdomen.
The oesophagus is seen as continued ce c within the abdomen where it has precisely the same structure as within the thorax.
The crop or ingluvies contains a moderate amount of food and is fairl distended.
The exterior coat of the crop is a network of muscles which present the branched character sometimes found in insects PI.
VII fig.
45.
Another section of the crop showing tlie character of this muscularization is given at Fig.
46.
This enlarged view is taken from the object shown at PI.
YIII fig.
55 and is made at the margin.
The spherical crop is thus seen to be hung within the muscular netting something like an inflated balloon within its net bag.
Forel thinks that the muscles of the segmental walls of the abdomen alone are concerned in the act of regurgitation but I see no ground for this opinion except possibly with the honeybearers whose abdominal muscles alone might suffice to expel the contents of the crop.
Such a remarkably efficient structure as is here demonstrated and illustrated can hardly be without its proper function.
Before proceeding to demonstrate the main point in hand it will be well to follow the alimentary canal to its termination.
 3.
The Gizzard or Pboventriculus.
 The crop is continued posteriorly by the gizzard gz PI.
VIII figs.
55 56 57 59 a singular and complicated organ in ants which has given rise to conjectures the most diverse.
Meinert regards it as serving to regulate the movement of the aliments.
Forel thinks it certain that it serves above all to close and for the most part hermetically the digestive canal between the crop and the stomach.The gizzard properly belongs to the anterior part of the intestinal canal its internal cuticle tunica intima being a direct continuation of the crop oesophagus pharynx and mouth.
It consists in Myrmecocystus and the entire subfamily Camponotidse of three parts.
 Swiss Ants p. 111.
 The gizzard varies largely among ants and the variations form generic characters of great value which Dr. Forel has shown first in his ' ' Fourmis de la Suisse p. 112 seq. and afterward more fully and clearly in his Etudes Myrmecologiques Bulletin de la Soc.
Vaudois d. Sci.
Nat. Vol.
XV 1878pp.
337 392.
This last study of this organ is one of the most admirable contributions yet made to niyrmecological histology.
1.
The anterior part or gizzard proper a lilyshaped organ composed of a spherical bowl b.gz and four blades or sepals s.gz.
It is strongly chitinous appears intact in all dissections and is easily seen.
The crop contracts at the posterior end within the four sepals of the gizzard which thus appear to act as valves to regulate or moderate the flow of aliment from the crop to the stomach.
What if any action it may have upon the food is not known  it can hardh' have the usual function of trituration as ants do not receive solid food into the crop. 2.
The middle part of the gizzard or cylinder cy.gz is a straight cylinder with a fine transparent internal cuticle whose matrix is surrounded by a compact coat of transverse striated muscles.
Exteriorly the cylinder appears to merge directly into the stomach.
Only the muscular coat however is thus directly continued and expanded into the fine muscular bagnet of the stomach PI.
VIII fig.
b1.
3.
The internal cuticle of the gizzard traverses the walls of the stomach accompanied bits matrix and projects within the cavity of the stomach terminating in an elongated bulb which is the button bn.gz.
fig.
51 bn.
fig.
59  or posterior part of the gizzard.
The anterior and posterior parts of the gizzard are always found in ants the first varying greath the latter scarcely at all.
The cylinder on the contrary is wholly wanting in many genera and in others undergoes great variations of length.
The entire organ is united to the crop externally by a strong muscular netting so that the two might be compared to a balloon crop and the car gizzard and the enfolding muscles to the network swinging between the two.
 4.
The Stomach.
 The stomach stm PI.
YIIIfigs.
55 56 like the gizzard is alwaj'S easily discernible inasmuch as a quantit of solid amorphous matter within it of a dark brown or blackish color betrajs its presence even through the segmental plates.
It is commonly spherical or ovate in shape.
 5.
Malpighian Tubes.
 Around the posterior pole of the stomach are grouped the Malpighian vessels mpg figs.
56 60 twelve in number.
1 The various sections of the bowl appeared to me to have upon their interior edges certain toothlike inequalities which suggested at least the office of triturating or agitating the passing food.
These may be however nothing more than longitudinal flutiugs upon the external surface.
 6.
The Intestine  The location and appearance of the intestine is seen in fig.
ST more clearly in fig.
.60.
The ileum il passes from the posterioipole of the abdomen and appears to be united to the colon col by a fold which I have ventured to refer to as the ileosecal valve il.v.
The rectal glands re.gl appear upon the colon and the rectum 
'e a strongly chitinous and muscuhir structure terminates in tlie ciHated anus an.
Finally PI.
YIII fig.
58  will show the relative positions of all the organs opening into the cloaca.
See Explanation of Plates fig.
58.
We may now construct for further illustration the synthetic figure PI.
IX fig.
61 giving a side view of the entire intestinal canal in situ.
This will indicate the normal position of the crop relative to the abdomen and the other alimentary organs.
It will be seen that it occupies a position anterior and superior to these.
The natural tendency of the pressure caused b the expansion of the crop as it fills the abdominal cavit' would be to force the remainder of the tract backward and downward.
In point of fact it is so fourfd.
A number of workers with abdomens in various degrees of distension wei'e examined and the condition and site of the digestive organs noted.
A few outlines of these abdomens are given  The series begins with Fig.
63 PI.
IX where the crop is shown in nearly normal site and well filled.
The same condition is indicated at Fig.
66 except that the crop shows marks of having once been quite distended and afterward emptied.
Fig.
64 shows a worker whose crop about half fills the abdomen.
The gizzard gfz is forced downward ventral J and has the anterior poles of the sepals turned upward dorsad.
The effect of subsequent pressure should the crop have expanded in forcing the stomach etc. backward and downward into the cloacal cavity can readily be predicted from the figure.
In Figs.
62 and 65 the abdomens of workers in the semirotund state the distension has advanced a little further so as to push the stomacli in one case 62 as far ns in the other 65 partly beyond the fourth segmental plates compressing the intestine proportionatel3 1 Adapted from Forel Der Giftapparat und die Aurddriisen der Ameisen Zeitschrlftf.
wiss.
Zool. Bd.
XXX.
That the same results follow in all the worker castes may be seen in Fig.
67 the abfloraen of a minim or dwarf worker.
Turning to tlie honej'bearers we find precisely the same condition of the abdomen except that the distention of the crop has greatly increased pushing its walls in all directions quite up against the inner walls of the abdomen forcing the latter into rotundity and compressing the other organs into the smaller space.
Fig.
69 is the abdomen of a honejbearer which appeared to be a little short of the full rotundity.
The crop filled the entire cavity but the gizzard stomach and intestine instead of beingcrowded together upon each other were in their normal relations and appeared to be in an entirely healthy state.
The aspect of man of the bearers raised the query whether the anus might not be sealed by the organs forced against it thus stopping all excretion and making the animal simply a vital honeypot.
The above individual at least had every appearance of normal condition and action of all the organs.
In the next example fig.
70 the gizzard stomach malpighian vessels and intestine are forced down quite within the compass of the fourth pairs of segmental plates and directly over the cloacal vent.
For the most part these organs are situated ventral but here they are partly dorsal of this cleft.
The most usual position of the stomach in the honeybearers is between and quite close to the fifth and fourth ventral plates.
The gizzard is a little anterior of this the sepals which mark the posterior pole or entrance of the crop within the gizzard being directed downward upward downward and backward upward and backward or forward at haphazard.
Another illustration is given fig.
68 in which the crop of a honeybearer is seen in the act of contraction after having been punctured through a slit s in the abdomen.
When one holds a rotund up to the light and looks into the semitransparent abdomen it is not possible to distinguish the crop from the abdominal membrane.
But in the example here figured as the honey flowed out from the pierced crop the slowly contracting and thickeninofolds of the partly emptied organ were thus revealed.
Nothinocould demonstrate more clearly than this experiment and figure that it is the crojj alone which fills the distended abdomen.
I venture to add a final illustratioji to tliis series.
I was enabled to separate a crop entire from the abdomen and mount it for microscopic examination.
In this delicate woi'k which could not otherwise have been done I was aided by some morbid condition of the abdomen.
I occasionally noticed both in the natural and artificial nests honejbearers whose abdomens had the appearance of cones PI.
VI fig.
3.3 and the outer membrane hung in folds.
 The seemed to have suflTered some injury which apparently had affected the crop.
It was from one of these that the crop PI.
VIII fig.
55 was taken.
These studies point to the following conclusions  I.
First  and absolutely that it is the crop alone which contains the nectar received at the mouth which immensely distended thereby fills the rounded abdomen of the honeybearer.
II.
Second and absolutel the organs of the abdominal portion of the alimentary canal in the honeybrearers are ordinarilj in a natural state except in so far as their position has been changed by the downward and backward pressure of the expanding crop.
This condition of the abdomen is fiequent in a greater or less degree among ants.
There has been much error and loose statement on this point among authors.
So eminent an anatomist as Dr. Joseph Leidy supposed that the honey was contained within the stomach  that all the other viscera of the stomach were obliterated and that even the tracheal Aessels had entirely disappeared. Dr. Oscar Loew makes some correct notices of the honey ant as seen at Santa Fe New Mexico but permits himself to recognize  the intestine .
.
as a narrow canal winding through the rounded and puffed up abdomen.
This could only in any sense be affirmed of a small part of the abdomen the posterior portion into which as we have seen the intestine is crowded.
It is possible that the dorsal ves1 I do not credit the statement Loew that many of the rotunds burst by force of the pressure upon the crop.
Probably this never occurs in nature.
The spots of moistened clay seen by observers rather mark the wreck of ants crushed by pressure upon the chambers and galleries during excavation or ruptured by falling from the roosts.
2 Proceedings Academy Natural Science Vol.
VI 1853 p. 72.
This however was twentynine years ago.
 Chemist and mineralogist to Lieut.
Wheeler's Exploring Expedition American Naturalist Vol.
VIII 1874 p. 3656. sel may have been mistaken for the intestine as this may be seen in some specimens very plainly.
Dr. James Blake  has published a brief report in which he falls upon an error quite the reverse of Dr Loew.  The intestine of the insect he says  is not continued beyond the thorax so that there is no way in which the remains of the food can be expelled from the body except by the mouth.
It follows of course that with this view he should further err in supposing the honeybag to be formed simply by the expansion of the abdominal segments.
The illustrations above figured on the contrary show that the intestinal canal has neither been ruptured nor resorbed nor otherwise disposed of than is quite natural. III.
Third it is seen that the process by which the rotundity of the honeybearers has probably been produced has its exact counterpart in the ordinary distension of the crop in overfed ants  that at least the condition of the alimentarcanal in all the castes is the same differing only in degree and therefore the probability is very great that the honeyhearer is simply a worker with an overgroivn abdomen.
If this last conclusion has not been fully demonstrated it has at least been shown that there is no anatomical or physiological obstacle thereto but very much confirmatory thereof.
The Australian HoneyAnt.
 An exceedingly interesting discovery of a new species of honeyant adds to the probability of this last conclusion.
Sir John Lubbock has described this species as Gamponotus ijijlatus from specimens collected at Adelaide Australia.
I received examples through the courtesy of Mr. Gerald Waller last summer which enabled me even in advance of Lubbock's admirable description to note that a con Proceedings California Academy Science 1873 part II page 98.
2 Dr. Forel in the communication to the Morphologic physiological Society of Munich already alluded to appears to me to have misunderstood Dr. Loew's published statement.
Dr. L. erred in seeing too much intestine instead of none at all.
 It is not worth while to more than mention here the opinion which has leen largely circulated that the workers bite and wound the ends of the ahdomens producing thereby an inflammation which seals up the anus stops all excretion and so causes the reiletion of the abdomen.
 Journal Linn.
Soc.
Zoology 1880 Vol.. XV p. 185 seq.
dition supposed to be peculiar to our American Melliger obtained in an Australian species belonging to a genus quite removed from Myrmecocystus.
Mr. Waller could tell me nothing of the habits or luibitat of C. inflatus and Lubbock has no account of an'.
But tlie congeners of the Australian insect are  Carpenter ants quite generally making tlieir formicaries in the roots and trunks of trees and thus in economy as well as structure differ from M. hortusdeorum.
This widening of the range within which this hitherto phenomenonal condition of the abdomen is found not only raises the suggestion which Sir John makes of an independent origin of the modification in the two species but also adds to the probability that the modification may have qriginated in the natural mode which I have described.
It is to be regretted that Lubbock did not make an examination of the alimentary canal of his species which with tlie material and resources at his command would doubtless have been highly satisfactory.
However I undertook from my limited material to make at least so mucli of a stud of the digestive organs as would permit some comparison with results obtained from Hortusdeorum.
I had but one perfect specimen which is figured Plate X fig.
74.
The abdomen of this example was removed and carefully mounted without rupturing the abdominal walls.
The result is shown at Plate IX fig.
71 and as will at once be seen corresponds with those obtained fully from Hortusdeorum and as far as pursued from Mexicanus also.
The crop fig.
71 fills the cavity of the abdomen and the rest of the digestive organs are seen crowded into the anal region.
The gizzard has the general features of that of Hortusdeorum but has marked characteristics quite identical with those of the genus Camponotus as pointed out by Forel.'
The sepals are not deflected at the anterior pole as in the lilyshaped sepals of Hortusdeorum but are clavate and straight.
This fact certainly strengthens the conclusion arrived at concerning the American species of honeybearer viz. that the rotund has been developed by natural habit from the ordinary worker and that the possibilities of such a condition exist in the structure and functions of all nectarfeeding ants.
Why the extraordinarily distended crop seen in the honeyant should be limited to two ' Etudes Myrmecologiques Bull.
Soc.
Vaud.
de Sci.
Nat.
1878.
PI XXIII fig.
1. species so far as known and why so limited a number of workers in the formicaries of these two species should develop the round abdomen are questions that provoke sufficient wonder but jield scant satisfaction.
XI.
Possible Organs of Stridl'lation in Ants.
The segmental plates of the abdomen are composed of numerous hexagonal epithelial scales PI.
YII fig.
48 which present a very beautiful appearance as of delicate mosaics when viewed througli a microscope.
When a profile view of one of these plates is exposed to the lens as at fig.
49 the scales are seen to be imbricated that is to overlap each other like tiles on a house roof and show the serrate edge figured in the cuts figs.
49 and 50.
The former 49 is drawn from a section of Gamponotus inflatus and the latter 50 from Hortusdeorum.
This serrate edge not only shows upon the external part of the plate e. ab.
pL but upon the imbricated portion i. ab.
pi.
By referring to the manner in which the one part overlaps the other shown at figs.
53 54 it may be seen that a backward and forward motion of the plates iipon each other might produce a faint rasping sound.
That this motion is entirely possible can hardly be doubted.
The abdominal plates are continually though gradually sliding out and in like the parts of a telescope under the expansion and contraction of the crop as the ant feeds or regurgitates the contained nectar.
All that is required to have the complete conditions for stridulation seems therefore to be the muscular ability to perform this action rapidly which it appears to me ants certainly possess.
I have often noticed the peculiar hisszzz 
which arises from an excited colonj or column of ants a sound which grows in intensity according to the degree of excitement.
I have also met an opinion prevalent among ordinary observers that the ants produce this sound by some organ analogous to some one of those by which other insects produce musical notes or noises  in short to use the popular phrase that ants sing.
But I have heretofore been disposed to consider the noise referred to simply as the result of friction of a great multitude of insects moving rapidly over the surface of the earth the litter of leaves twigs etc. and against the hard shelllike bodies of their fellows or possibly also b' the gratings of the hard toothlike mandibles upon each other.
I am not yet prepared to abandon this opinion nor to affirm that ants do produce audible sounds by proper stridulating organs  but simply record the structural possibility of such behavior.
Since making the above note Mr. Swinton's work on Insect Variety   has reached me.
The author records an example of what seemed to be an act of stridulation by a small yellow ant Myrmica ruginodis.
This insect was observed stationed near the edge of an inverted wine glass underneath which it had been confined its head downward rapidly vibrating its abdomen vertically from the pedicle and simultaneously giving out a continuous singing sound in color and intensity resembling the sharp whining of the little dipteron Syrilla pipens.
Concluding that the rhythmical motion accompanying the music indicated this ant as a stridulator the author undertook a microscopic stud of its anatomy from which the following facts appear   The ant belongs to the family Myrmicid which are distinguished from the Formicid to which our honey ant belongs by having two knots or nodes to the petiole.
The second or posterior knot is commonly the larger and is placed quite near to the anterior pole of the abdomen.
Upon the insertion of the abdomen into this node were observed twelve minute yet regular annular striae.
PI.
X fig.
81.
This stria'ion was produced but less distinctly upon the articulation of this the second node with the first anterior node.
It was conjectured that the rapid movement of these joints of the petiole back and forward upon each other and upon the abdomen like the jointed tubes of a telescope produced the sound above described.
As the nodes are to be regarded as abbreviated segments of the abdomen and as the abdominal segments have already been shown to be capable of movement one upon another Mr. Swinton's interesting observation gives new value to the suggestion above made concerning the structural possibility of stridulation in the honey ant and others of like organism.
1 Insect Variety its Propagation and Distribution by A. H. Swinton member of the Entomological Society of London p. 106 and PI.
VI fig.
7.
2 The writer's account is somewhat confused by false punctuation and he falls into the error of conjecturing that the small worker may have been a male.
I have given my understanding of the structure as derived chiefly from the figure which I reproduce with some alteration.
XII.
Destruction of the Ants by Mites.
The untimely end of my artificial colonies is worthy of a passing note.
The ants were brought from Colorado in large jars domiciled in their native soil.
Every precaution which circumstances would allow was taken to preserve their health but after a confinement of over seven months during which mau of the observations noted above were made they became infested with mites.
These parasites or their germs were probably brought from Colorado with the insects although I did not observe them until late in their imprisoment.
However I have seen the same or similar parasites upon other ants while in their homenest and more than once have suffered the loss of colonized formicaries from their inroads.
In the case of the honeants I was powerless to give relief of any kind and witnessed with real grief the helpless little sufferei's in their struggles to free themselves from their destroyers.
I have figured the head of an ant thus infested at PI.
VII fig.
39 where the mites ma be seen clinging to the cheek mandibles and antennae.
I have spared the feelings of my readers so far as to figure but a few of the pests.
In point of fact they literally covered the moiith parts where they were chiefly congregated although the' were attached to other parts of the bod.
The poor  host although so admirably provided with implements for cleansing her person  such as the mandibles mouth and tarsal comb found all efforts to rid herself of her  guests  futil.
Even that friendly aid in toilet service which one emmet is wont to extend to another was vain.
Graduall the poor victim yielded life to the parasitic swarm that sucked at her vital juices.
The charnelhouse  the little cemetery centre at one side of the formicar'  gained many inmates daily  the galleries and chambers thinned of their busy populace and grew lonely  at last as in some plaguestricken human commonwealth the dead were suffered to lie where they fell for the living were themselves sealed to death and unable to give their comrades sepulture.
So my nests faded away until unwilling longer to witness their sufferings I gave them all a painless death.
My studies were seriously interfered with by this calamit as many of my wellnigh ripened experiments thus came to nought.
But one cannot complain for Nature and Destiny pursue ants also and that this iarticular form of insect doom is unhappily not rare has long ago been voiced in tlie familiar couplet    Great fleas have little fleas they smaller fleas to bite 'em  Smaller fleas have lesser fleas and so ad infinitum'' One might pass to the opposite pole of the zoological series  TVIan  and add the I'eflection of Quintus Serenus upon the death of the Dictator Sylla   ' Great Sylla too the fatal scourge hath known  Slain by a host far mightier than his own It might be supposed at least I had so thought that the presence of these parasites would greatly irritate the ants and produce an excited behavior and animated struggles to be rid of their guests.
On the contrary they endured the affliction with wonderful patience.
It seemed to me although one must allow in such cases for the anthropomorphic color upon his observations that the unfortunate creatures were quite conscious of their doom of the hopelessness of contending against it and had yielded tliemselves in a philosophic resignation.
The mites are in color white almost transparent and are about one millimetre in length.
I am not certain as to the species but present correct drawings of the animals from wdiich they ma' be determined by a competent authority.
See PI.
VII figs.
40 41.
Greatly magnified views in several degrees of expansion of the sucking organs by which the mites cling to their host are shown at figs.
42 43 44.
XIII.
Previous Accounts of the HoneyAnt.
The first account of the Honeyant was given to the world by Dr. Pablo de Llave in the year A. D. 1832 in a Mexican journal.'
A translation into French of the substance of this paper was given by Monsieur H. Lucas in the French Review and Magazine of Zoology June 1860. Meanwhile 1838 M. Wesmael had published a description of the ant with figures without knowledge of the above paper of Llave establishing for it the Genus MyrmecoCYSTUS.
Wesmael 's generic name remains but his specific name  Registro trimestre o collecion de Memorias de Historia literatura ciencias y Artes 1832.
2 Revue et Magazin de Zoologie Tome XII 18G0 p. 271.
Mexicanus has of course yielded to that of Llave modified liowever from MeUigera to MelUger.
The Colorado insects upon which the studies of this paper are based I have ventured to regard as a new variety and have named Myrmecocystus liortusdeorum and thus have retained Wesmael's name as a variety name.
It will be well to state briefly the facts in the economy of these insects indicated in the foregoing and other papers in order to mark precisely the new facts which have now been communicated here.
Llave 's information was all at second hand he having made no personal observations of the habits of Melliger.
From a person living at Dolores a village in the vicinitj of the cit of Mexico he learned  1.
That the ants were popularly known under the name of Busileras 2.
That they do not erect heaps of earth at the entrance to their nests  3.
That on opening the nest a species of gallerj' is reached to the roof of which certain ants are suspended packed one against the other  4.
That these ants cover the roof as well as the wall of the gallery.
5.
The women and children of the valley know these nests perfectly well and frequently open them for the sake of the honeybearers or rotunds.
The honej' is sucked from the abdomen of the rotunds with great relish at the nests  or if it is wished to preserve them they are lifted by the head and thorax and placed upon plates in which they grace the village feasts and are eaten as delicacies.
6.
The rotunds when thus placed together stir around lay hold of and tear one another and finally end life by bursting.
7.
The skin of the abdomen which binds the segments together is so thin and the upper coat so distended on account of the quantity of honey which it encloses that the least pressure suffices to cause the ants to disgorge.
8.
When they do not so disgorge that is by elevating the head and thorax the honey diminishes and the ants eat it.
9.
Dr. Llave observed moreover from specimens of the ants sent to him that there were difterent castes of workers and degrees of distension in the abdomens and 10.
That the honey in the rotunds varied in color from a crystal whiteness to a winecolor.
Several of the above statements as has been seen are without foundation but the majority of them are confirmed in whole or part b my observations.
Wesmael who made his study from specimens sent him from Mexico bj the Belgian Envoy Baron Normann records his credence of the theory announced by that gentleman viz. that the honeybearer elaborates the honey and deposits it in certain reservoirs analogous to the cells of bees for the nurture of the formicary.
Baron Normann was unable to obtain examples of these reservoirs to send to Europe or rather failed to do so under the conviction that they would be destroyed during shipment.
In point of fact such reservoirs exist only in imagination.
One of the most perplexing accounts of the honeyant is that of Mr. Henry Edwards. The statements recorded are made at second hand from the verbal narrative of a Capt.
W. B. Fleeson whose observations were made at or near Santa Fe.
They are so extraordinary and contradictor' of my own experiences that I am compelled to withhold credence until some experienced observer shall have corroborated them a result of which I have little expectation.
According to this account no exterior moundlet surmounts the formicary but simply two openings into the earth.
Within the nest at a depth of about three feet a small excavation is reached across which is spread in the form of a spider's web a network of squares spread by the insects the squares being about onequarter inch across and the ends of the web fastened firmly to the earth at the sides of the hollowed space which forms the bottom of the excavation.
In each one of the sqiiares supported by the web sits one of the honeymaking workers apparently in the condition of a prisoner as it does not appear that these creatures ever quit the nest.
But the marvels of this strange story are not exhausted. 
The 1 Bulletin de 1' Acad.
Roy.
des Sci.
et Belles lettre de Bruxelles Tome V p. 770.
PI.
XIX figs.
14.
2 Proceed.
California Acad of Sciences Vol.
V. 1873 p. 72   Notes on the Honeymaking Ants of Texas and New Mexico.
 Of course this is pure fiction as no ant makes a web or anything that could well suggest one.
The cutting ant does make out of fragments of leaves a comb of more or less regular cells resembling the nests of the papermaking wasps.
inmates of the formicaiy are composed of two distinct species apparently even of different genera of ants.
There are the ordinary yellow workers and houeybearers of Melliger and besides black workers who act as guards and purveyors.
One column of the blacks surrounds the openings on three sides attacking driving off or destroj'ing all intruding insects.
Another column bears through the unguarded side of the hollow square fragments of flowers aromatic leaves and pollen which adds our author by a process analogous to that of the bee the honej'makers convert into honej'.
One can hardly refrain from the thought that Capt.
Fleeson was testing the credulity of the writer by one of those jokes of which naturalists are occasionally the victims.
But if the narrative is to be taken in good faith I can onl explain the facts by supposing first that the observer happened upon a nest of cuttingants Atta fervens within whose boundaries a nest of Melliger had chanced to be established and had confounded the habits of the two as those of one formicary or second that the cuttingant or some other species of similar economy has really acquired the habit of kidnapping and domesticating the honej'ant for the sake of its treasured sweets precisely as man ants domesticate aphides  or as the slavemaking ants Formica sanguinea and Folyergus lucidus domesticate Formica fusca and F. Schauffusxi. One of the latest accounts of the honeyant and so far as it goes one of the best is that of Mr Saunders the editor of the Canadian Entomologist who communicates to his journal some observations made by Mr. Kummeck at Santa Fe. According to this observer considerable numbers of these insects are found in the mountains of that vicinity.
He sat by a nest six or seven 1 One may not be over rash in refusing belief even to facts that go counter to all past experiences for the marvels of Nature are ever widening within our view.
While therefore I am inclined to reject the whole story I await the observation of some trained naturalist giving the account the benefit of the above possible explanations.
2 Can.
Entom. 1875 Vol.
VII pp.
1213.
 I may be permitted to explain why I did not go to New Mexico to attempt on the spot a solution of some of the questions raised by these accounts.
I had made every arrangement to do so after my studies in the Gardenofthegods were completed but on the morning that I was to break camp was taken with a sudden and violent illness which compelled me to abandon my journey.
hours and noticed the workers carry home leaves of different plants to feed as he supposed the others that produce the honey This would seem to conhrm the leafbearing habit quoted by Mr. Edwards from Capt.
Fleeson.
The inference as to the use of these leaves is however quite unwarranted as the portage of leaves etc. into nests is not an uncommon habit among ants of divers species.
Without stopping to discuss the question whether such material may contribute to the food suppl' of the formicary it may be remarked that its most probable and ordinary use is for purposes of architecture or nestbuilding Mr. Kurameck also makes the remark which I had not seen at the time my own conclusions had been reached that  in early life none of these insects present any unusual distension of the body but when arrived at a certain period of maturity some individuals begin to show a distended abdomen.
The ant honey has no commercial value among the New Mexicans.
It has a place however as a remedy in the domestic therapeutics of the native Indians who compound a drink by mixing three to four drachms of the honey with six ounces of water.
The drink is used in cases of fever.
The honey is also applied as an unguent in eye diseases especially cataract.
To the above may properly be added two accounts of my own studies published in the London Jownal of Science These are reports made hy Mr. Morris of the verbal communications in which my observations were originally announced to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
They were made and printed without any oversight or responsibility on my part but are admirably and in the main accurately done.
They have been reproduced with various degrees of fulness in other journals.
Such other notices of this ant as I have been able to find and have had occasion to use will be found properly referred to in the text of this paper where those who are interested in the literature can readil find them.
1 .Tour.
Sci. February 1880 '' Living Honey Comb  a novel phase of Ant Life.
By Mr C Morris.
Ibid.
July 1880 Habits and Anatomy of the Honeybearing Ant.
By Charles Morris.
XIV.
Description of Species.
FORMICARI.E.
Family FORMICIDJE.
Subfamily CAMPOXOTID Forel.
Genus MYRMECOCYSTUS Wesmael CataglypMs Foerster Vevli.
d Nat.
Ver.
d.
Rheinl. 1850  Mayr Europ.
Formic 1861 Norton Wheeler's Report Vol.
V Zool. p. 734.
Monocumbus Mayr Verb.
d. Zool.bot.
Ver.
in Wien 1855.
Myrmecocystus Forel Etudes Myrmecologiques Bull.
Soc.
Vaud.
de Sci.
Nat.
M. melliger Llave.
1.
Var.
mexicanus Wesm.
2.
Var.
hortusdeorum McCook.
Workers.
 Three castes major minor and minim or dwarf.
Color a uniform light yellow  the body is covered quite tliickly the legs more thickl' with short yellow hairs.
The maxillary palps are very long sixjointed third joint longest  they are covered especially beneath with long hairs curved backward.
Lfbial palps four joints  mandibles with nine teeth.
The head is quadrate in the workermajor more rounded at the sides than with the minor and dwarf wider than the thorax.
Clypeus smooth rounded slightly flattened in front of the frontal area.
Frontal area smooth shining triangular somewliat truncated posteriorly.
Ocelli sufficiently prominent  a tuft of hairs on the face beneath directed forward.
The body is of good length narrow and compressed beneath at the mesothorax  metanotum as high as or slightly higher than the pronotum.
The node cordate cleft at the tip thickened at the base set perpendicularly upon the petiole.
Anns strong'
ciliated.
Length workermajor 8 mm.
 workerminor 7 mm  workerminim 5 mm.
Honeybearers A sedentary class or caste distinguished by alxloraens distended into spherical form by expansion of the crop filled with grapesugar.
The length including abdomen is 13 mm.
onehalf inch  the proportions and description of the head and body are those of the workermajor of which it may be a developed form.
Female Virgin queen total length 13 mm. as follows  Mandibles 1 m.  head 2 mm.
 body 5 mm.
 abdomen 5 mm.
Width 70 1881. of abdomen 3 mm.
 of prothorax 2 mm.
Color livid yellow.
Forewing 14 mm.
long venation as in PI.
X fig.
17.
Male.
 Length 5 mm.
 length of forewing 5 mm.
Color livid yellow  the head upper part of thorax and dorsum of abdomen blackish.
The mandible has one feeble tooth at the tip and two others shorter and feebler.
Habitat.
 Southern Colorado occupying subterranean formicaries with small gravelcovered exterior moundlet pierced by one central gallery.
ALPHABETICAL KEY TO REFERENCES IN THE PLATES.
The references are uniform in application throughout all the figures.
References which occur only once and are explained in the  Explanation of Plates are not placed in the Key.
6. abdomen.
ab.
pi. abdominal plate.
ah.
pi.
Z abdominal plate dorsal.
ah.
pl.
I' abdominal plate ventral a
 anus.
an.
sp scape of antenna.
ant antennse.
he.
s buccal or mouth sac.
h. gz bowl of gizzard.
hn.
gz button of gizzard.
h. ms branched muscles.
CL Clypeus.
G. ms crop muscles.
Col colon.
Cy.
gz cylinder of gizzard.
D dorsal.
E epithelium.
E. I. s epithelium imbricated serrate edge.
E. ab.
pi exterior abdominal plate.
Epc epicranium.
f. ar frontal area.
fe77i femora.
Jig flagellum of antenna.
fm foramen.
yz gizzard.
hy hypopygium.
i. ah.
pZ interior abdominal plate.
il ileum.
il.
V ileosecal valve.
in intestine.
lb labium.
lb.
p labial paljjs.
Ibm labrum.
vih mandibles mo mouth.
mpg malpighian tubes.
pr.
th prothorax.
VIS muscles.
py pygidium.
m. th mesothorax.
px pharynx met.
th metathorax.
m. tr metatarsus.
' mx maxilla.
h rectal glands.
mx.
p maxillary palpi.
g  gplg f gizzard.
stm stomach.
nd node of petiole 7ik neck.
str striae.
su sucker.
009 occiput.
tib tibia.
' ocelli.
i tongue ffi esophagus.
t. tarsus.
2.
ms pharjngeal muscle.
V ventral.
EXPLANATIOX OF PLATES. Plate I.
Fig.
2.
Yiew of my camp in the Garden of the gods showing the site of some of the nests of the honey ants studied.
The view is taken from the rocks at the junction of Adams and Yon Hagen ridges see Fig.
1 p. 19 and looks towards the south and the eastern face of Pike's Peak.
One of the nests is shown in the foreground and the sites of others are indicated by the white circles on the tops of the ridges.
My tent and booth are seen near the centre of the sketch and just opposite on the right is the oak copse in which the ants were discovered feeding on the exudations of galls.
Page 19.
Plate II.
Fig.
3.
Elevated gravel cone of a honeyant nest  the gravel is of red sandstone and the rocks around are bits of quartz of several colors giving a prett effect.
This nest is the largest seen and measures three and onehalf inches high and thirtytwo inches around the base.
Page 21  Mr. Joseph Jeanes a member of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia contributed the money required for the illustration of this paper and thus has greatly added to whatever value it may possess.
Fig.
4.
A nest built partly around a tuft of gramma grass and less conical in shape than the above Plate III.
Fig.
5.
View of honeybearers as seen in natural site clinging to the roof of a honeyroom.
About natural size.
Page 22.
Fig.
6.
View of honey bearers in same position drawn from one of m' artificial nests.
Mingled with them are seen ordinary workers and semirotunds or workers apparently in process of transformation into honeybearers.
About natural size.
Plate IV.
Fig.
7.
Sprig of dwarf oak Quercus undulata with galls of Cynips quercusmellaria showing the beads of sweet sap.
Page 25.
Fig.
8.
The same galls enlarged.
Fig.
9.
Another cluster of the same galls.
Fig 10.
Section of gall showing the inside cell c and the exit hole of .the gallfly eh.
Page 26.
Fig.
11.
Turk'shead'gall showing exithole eh.
Fig.
12.
View of inside of a gall showing a globular cell and a small grub domiciled against it.
Page 27.
Fig.
13.
A honeybearer clinging by her feet to the wall of a honeyroom.
Page 22.
Fig.
14.
The crater of a gate to an ant's nest showing the graveled funnel F and the smooth nozzle N. Page 32.
Fig.
15.
Outline of the elevation of a formicary.
Page 35.
Plate V. Fig.
16.
Double section view of the interior of a nest drawn from a point in the excavaticm twentyone inches below the surface.
Nest made in soft red sandstone g y g galleries arranged in stories.
R R R vertical sections through hone3rooms and chambers for nursery purposes.
C D E the floors of a suite of honeyrooms showing their connection with the general S3'stem.
Page 86.
Fig.
17.
The three honeyrooms C D E above referred to and the indication of a fourth F. Length of C from a to 6  5 inches  D from c to d  3 inches  E from e to i  4 inches.
Elevation of h above x  B inches  of b above e  6 inches.
A little stairway united D with C and F  gg a gallery.
Page 36.
Fig.
18.
Section through middle of nest showing the gate architecture.
G gate X nozzle A arm of the gate gallery terminating in the vestibule V. a 6 c branching galleries.
Page 32.
Fig.
10.
A similar section of another nest.
Letters as above E a small room with gallery leading downward.
Fig.
20.
Similar section of another nest.
The main gallerj branches to the right and passes behind the gate b  6 into room A. E C small bays or rooms D D ee curved and branched gallery on the same plane with openings downward g gr g. Page 33.
Fig.
21.
A honeyroom HR  g gallery leading into the gate gallery G  ug unbroken part of same  B small bay room.
Page 34.
Fig.
22.
Termination of excavated nest 6 feet 10 inches from gate.
2 feet 5 inches below surface.
 y galler entrance C Queenroom 4 inches diameter.
E Small bayroom apparently beginning of a chamber  t  terminal gallerj running upwards as though the ants were in process of excavating a room resembling C. Page 36.
Fig.
23.
Sloping section through middle of nest showing relation of gate to the upper series of galleries and rooms.
A B hone3M'Ooms  ar y z main galleries 1 2 3 side openings.
Page 33.
Fig.
24.
A honeybearer regurgitating hone' from her crop at the solicitation of hungry workers.
Page 46.
Fig.
25.
Sentinels on guai'd at the gate.
Page 20.
Plate YI.
Fig.
26.
A queen dragged home b a worker.
Page 38.
Fig.
27.
A honejbearer dragged and pushed by a workermajor and dwarf from a broken room into a galler Page 39.
Fig.
28.
A honey bearer under a  land.slide one worker looking on curious but inactiA'e another on the clod at her toilet.
Page 41.
Fig.
29.
Queen surrounded b' her court  or bodygunvd of attendant workers.
Page 38.
Fig.
30.
Workers carrying a pebble up the mound.
Fig.
31.
Honeybearer parti' buried alive under pellets brought up by mining workers.
Page 40.
6 Fig.
32.
Honeybearer fallen from her perch being cleansed by a worker who reaches down from the wall.
Page 40 Fig.
33.
Ilonej'bearer with apparently morbid abdomen.
Page 58.
Fig.
34.
Worker nurses feeding and cleansing larvfe.
Page 43.
Fig.
35.
Yiew of vertical section of a nest showing galleries arranged in stories.
See PI.
V fig.
16.
G location of gate  a   e  z k  Z galleries  R R sections of honeyrooms.
Page 36 and footnote.
Fig.
36.
A worker dragging a honeybearer up a perpendicular surface into a galler Page 39.
Plate YII.
Fig.
37.
Yiew of the under side of the head of Myrmecocystus hortusdeorum showing the mouth organs.
X 20 Page 20.
The letterreferences in this and subsequent anatomical figures are imiform throughout.
The Key to References therefore p. 70 will apply to all figures.
Fig.
38.
Face sculpture of same.
X 20 Page 20.
Fig.
39 Side view of head of worker to show parasitic mites clinging thereto.
The mites are about natural size.
Page 63.
Fig.
40 Dorsal view of mites greatly enlarged.
Fig.
41.
Yentral view of same.
Fig.
42.
One of the suckers su contracted.
Figs.
43 and 44 the same further drawn out.
Fig.
45.
Muscles of the honey crop showing their netted and branched character.
X 30 Page 54.
Fig.
46.
The same from margin of the crop.
G. ws crop muscles  b. ms branched muscles.
Fig.
47.
Third leg of 31.
7ioruseorwm workerminor.
X 10.
Fig.
48.
Section of segmental plate of abdomen of honey ant showing hexagonal cells of epithelium and a bristlelike hair or seta arising therefrom.
Fig.
49.
Profile view of segmental plates of Camponotus vijlatus showing the overlapping of the same and the imbricated epithelial cells forming a rachetlike structure which suggests the possibility of a soundproducing organism e. ab.
pl exterior abdominal plate  i ab.
pi interior ditto.
Page 61.
Fig.
50.
Profile view of abdominal plate of M. hortusdeorum to show the same.
 Fig.
51.
After Lubbock.
Section through the head of Lasius niger to show site of buccal sac he.
s the pharynx j9 and its muscles p. ms. X 36 Page 52.
Fig.
52.
View of the cesophagus of a worker of M. hortusdeorum.
One side of the thorax and petiole are cut awaj' in order to show the oesophagus in site.
X 18 Page 53.
Fig.
53.
Abdomem of hone ant showing the segmental plates both dorsal D and ventral V in normal conditim of the crop.
X 16 Page 53.
Fig.
54.
Same when separated by partly expanded crop.
Page 53.
Plate YIII.
Fig.
55.
Entire crop with gizzard and stomach.
Dissected from a honey bearer with morbid abdomen.
X 14 Page 53.
Fig.
56.
Crop gizzard stomach malpighian tubes and intestine.
From honeybearer.
X 14 Page 54.
Fig.
51.
Enlarged view of gizzard.
X 50 Page 55.
Fig.
58.
After Forel.
Topographic somewhat diagrammatic representation of the organs opening into the cloaca of Botliriomyrmex meridionalis g enlarged 18 times.
4 5 and 6 optical section of the tergal chitinous pieces of what are reallj the 4th 5th and 6th abdominal segments nodes of the petiolus reckoned as one segment.
Opposite and beneath there are shown the sterna of the corresponding segments.
Zo dorsal vessel an.
u right anal vesicle an.
gl right anal gland Can intestinal canal intestine and rectum  po.
v poison vesicle with gland  ac.
gl accessory gland of the poison apparatus  Ou rudimentary ovaries with vagina  ab.
g the last three abdominal ganglia of the ventral cord with their commissures.
Between 6 and the corresponding sternal plate 6' lies a cleft shown wide open in the figure which leads into the cavity of the cloaca.
In this cavity one finds reckoning downwards from 6 to 6' 1.
0 the common openiiig of the anal vesicles.
2. an anus opening of rectum.
3. r. st rudimentar sting into which the poison vesicle opens and then lower down the accessory gland of the poison apparatus.
4. o. sa opening of the rudimentary fgmale sexual apparatus.
Fig.
59.
Crop in normal condition from a virgin queen.
The junction j of the abdomen with the petiole is bent over showing a part of the asophagus as drawn from the petiole.
The continuation of the same ce.
c within tlie abdomen is shown  also the relation of gizzard to both crop and stomach.
X 14 Page 53.
Fig.
60.
View of the intestine from the posterior pole of the abdomen to the anus.
X 35 Page 56.
Plate IX.
Fig.
61.
S'nthetic figure exhibiting the entire course of the ' alimentary canal from mouth to anus.
Page 56.
Figs.
620 compose a series illustrating the progressive distension of the crop from the normal condition to that of the honeybearer.
Page 56.
The series begins Avith Figs.
63 and 66 where the crop is normal  in fig.
66 the crop has shrunken after distension.
Fig.
64.
Worker crop half filling abdomen.
Figs.
62 65.
Workersmajor or semirotunds with distension of crop still further adA'anced.
Fig.
67.
Abdomen of a workerminor showing same process ot distension.
Fig.
68.
Abdomen of a honej'bearer opened at.
the slit s to puncture the crop and exhibit by its shrinking away the fact that the crop fills the cavity of the abdomen.
Page 57 Fig.
69.
Full crop of honeybearer with the lower part of the alimentary canal shown through the abdominal wall against which it is pressed and evidently in healthy condition.
Page 57.
Fig.
70 Abdomen of honeybearer the full crop pressing the gizzard stomach etc. into the cloacal cavity.
Page 578.
Fig 71 Abdomen of the Australian carpenterant Camponotus inflatus exhibiting the characteristic distension of M. hortusdeorum.
Drawn from an alcoholic speimen.
The figure is somewhat flattened by pressure  other abdomens in my possession are quite spherical.
The gizzard stomach ruptured and stretched and intestine are shown in the same relative position as in the honey ant.
Page 58.
Plate X.
Fig.
72.
Side view of honejbearer M. hortusdeorum.
X 3.
Fig 73.
Dorsal view of same.
X 3 Page 69.
Fig.
74.
Honeybearer of Camponotus injiatus dorsal view X 3 Page 59.
Figs.
75 76.
Male of M. hortusdeorum.
X 5.
Figs.
71 78.
Winged female or virgin qneen of tlie same.
X 3.
Fig.
79.
Workerminor of If.
lorMStZeorwrn.
X 5.
The workersmajor and minor or dwarf are exactly similar in form only longer in the proportions given in the description.
Page 69.
Figs.
80 81.
Node or scale of the petiole queen of hone ant side and front views.
X 10.
Fig.
82.
In part after Swinton  to show the stria s
' supposed stidulating organs upon the junction of the abdomen and second node 2. nd and also on junction of second node with the first 1. ml of Myrmica ruginodis.
MA'kCH 1.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Eighteen persons present.
March 8.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Fiftyeight persons present.
A paper entitled  On the Structure Affinities and Species of Scolopendrellaby J.
A. Ryder was presented for publication.
Prof. Angelo Heilprin delivered the introductory to his course of lectures on Invertebrate Paleontology.
March 15.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Prof. Henry Carvill Lewis delivered the introductor3to his course of lectures on Mineralogy.
The following was ordered to be printed   THE STRTJCTURE AFFINITIES AND SPECIES OF SCOLOPENDRELLA.
BY JOHN A. RYDER Inasmuch as a notice published by nie in the American Naturalist for May 1880 has awakened renewed interest in relation to these singular types and because the ordinal division proposed by me for their reception has apparently'' been accepted by Dr. LatzeP in his revision of the AustroHungarian species of Myria2oda I venture to offer the results of m' studies for the use of those interested.
Since the publication of m notice above referred to I have met with a paper unknown to me at the time mine was written which in many respects anticipates the observations made by the writer and relied upon as characters of ordinal value.
The publication here alluded to is entitled  Myriapodender Umgegend von Danzig  by Menge in which the author discusses at length the anatomy of the Scolopendrellaimmaculata Newp.
From his plates and text I find that while he confirms mobservations in man' respects in others his interpretations conflict with mine.
Not only is this the fact with regard to my observations but also with those of others who have studied the genus.
Taken as a whole the monograph of Menge is however by far the most valuable which has yet appeared.
The following synopsis of Menge's observations will I think be found useful.
I will preserve as nearly as possible the phraseolog3' of the German text which has reference to S. immaculata. 
Head compressed ovoid little longer than wide  antenua3 4042 articulate inserted immediately behind the labrum the joints compressed fusiform urnshaped the basal ones thicker than long becoming gradually longer towards the tip so that the apical joints are more than twice as long as thick  terminal joint acornshaped.
Each joint is encircled at its middle by a circlet of outwardly divergent hairs Behind the insertion of the antennae at the sides are two little prominences on the epicranium and alongside and above them on each side is placed a round black eje visible onlj'under the microscope.
  Scolopendrellaas the type of a new order of Articulates Symphyla.
 R. Latzel  Die Myriapoden der oesterreichischungariscli Mouarchie.
Erste Halfte.
Die Chilopoden pp.
228 Pis.
10 8vo.
Vienna 1880.
 Neuste Schriften der naturforscheuden Gesellschaft in Danzig IV 4tes Heft 4to.
1851. 
Mo nth parts arranged for biting Lalirum forming the anterior portion of the epioranium and divided into two rounded extremities anteriorly by a mesial emargination both liahes terminated by three pairs of teeth directed towards each other.
Mandibles beneath labrum somewhat exserted one jointed elongate curved inwards the outer side finely pubescent the apex armed with four large and five small hard brown teeth.
Maxillse twojointed basal joint C3lindrical curving slightly inwards surmounted by two apical pieces the outer longest and most slender piece may be regarded as repiesenting a palpus while the inner one which is shorter terminating in a series of bristles may be regarded as the second joint of the maxilla.
The labium is an oblong plate divided in the middle ba suture.
The anterior margin of each half bears three conical teeth. 
The bod consists of twent'three somites twelve principal ones to which the legs are attached and ten smaller intermediate and a caudal somite.
Each principal or legbearing somite has a quadrate sternum which is divided in the middle into two halves by a median furrow  the narrower intermediate somites have an elongate undivided sternum while the sides are covered by a triangular chitinous piece Attached to everj legbearing somite except the first behind and alongside of the insertion of the legs are a pair of simple hairj appendages.
The anal opening is on the ventral side of the bodcovered hy a rhomboidal almost semicircular plate the lateral extremities of which extend somewhat beyond the edges of the last dorsal scute.
The dorsal surface is covered b' fifteen scutes which are slightly imbricated.
The hind margins of the scutes are but slightly emarginated.
.
. 
Legs in twelve pairs or three less than the number of dorsal scutes  no pairs of legs corresponding to the fifth and eighth dorsal and the caudal scutes.
The first pair of legs are the smallest and including the tarsal joint are fourjointed.
The fourth joint is the longest the tarsal the shortest.
The latter is simply a little conical prominence on the outer face of which there are attached two hooked claws  The conical caudal appendages are simply an eflerent apparatus connected with two long caecal pouches which are filled with a viscous spinning material.
The eflerent duct ends between two terminal bristles. 
Besides the dorsal and sternal scutes there are pairs of ligamentous bauds which join the terga and sterna  in the hinder somites these bands are joined together dorsally and form an arch.
The anterior ones are joined medially below lhiteral processes.
They also exist in the head. 
Tlie digestive apparatus consists of a straight canal which extends from the mouth to the anus.
The phaiynx passes between the ligamentous bands of the upper cephalic plates.
The aisophagus is provided with annular folds and longitudinal and annular muscles The stomach is decidedlwidened and consists of an elongated cylindrical sac and is covered with brownish hepatic cells  these cells have finely granular contents.
There are no cilia on the inner surface of the stomach or alimentar canal.
The stomach is usually of a 3'ellowish brown color because of the contained food which consists of particles of brown mould or humus which could not be taken in by a sucking apparatus.
The cavit' of the small intestine is vermuch more contracted than tliat of the stomach and at its commencement four vermicularly coiled malpighian tubules open into it. 
Immediately above the anus lies the opening of the oviduct and ovary the latter consisting of a simple cdindrical canal with thin transparent walls.
Eggs in different stages of development may usually be found therein. 
I did not see the male sexual organs as all of the specimens dissected were females. 
I was not able to study the nervous sj'stem satisfactorily.
From the head a simple cord passes backwards which has scarcely noticeable ganglionic swellings at every somite from which simple pairs of nerves pass to the legs.
The vascular sjstem consists of a simple straight canal just below the dorsal scutes beginning just behind the head and passing backwards to the caudal appendages where it divides each branch ending blindl in the latter.
The presence of valves in the dorsal vessel trachea or tracheal openings was not revealed by an amplification of 4.50 diameters with a Nobert microscope of fine qualitv. ''
The function of the ventral and caudal appendages is not certainly known.
I have on several occasions found specimens of Machilis which had eggs attached to the caudal styles and I have supposed that these appendages in Scolopendrellahave the same use.
If a needle is brought into contact with the tips of either of these appendages at the opening of the spinning organ a long thrond nia bo drawn out.
It is believed that this spinning apparatus is used in fixing or attaching the eggs of the animal. 
The pairs of legs and the number of joints in the antenute are variable.
I found but eleven pairs of legs and seventeen joints in a young animal.
Tlie first pair of legs was wanting.
In other specimens with twelve pairs of feet I found twentyfive in others tliirt3'two and in others still fortytwo joints in the antennae the last seems to be the number in fullgrown specimens.
.
.
.
In conclusion our author observes that  It Avill have been concluded from what has been said that Scolopendrellais distinguished from Lithobius as well as from Geophilus b' the very different manducatory apparatus the double tarsal claws the ventral and the caudal appendages with the spinning apparatus and that it does not naturally fall into the same family with either of those genera.
On the contrary the animal agrees in its principal characters excepting the spinning organs and especially in its habits with Gampodea  is distinguished from it however by the greater niimber of pairs of legs and the dorsal scutes.
I believe accordingly that Scolopendrellamay be regarded as the type of a genus or family intermediate between the sixfooted Lepmnidse and the Scolopendriddey The foregoing paragraph shows how very nearly Menge had concluded thirty years ago that these singular animals should be separated from the Myriapods proper.
The parallel between his conclusions and my own are very striking as will be seen from the following words from my notice already alluded to. 
This form as interpreted above becomes of the highest interest to the zoologist and if the writer is not mistaken the biunguiculate legs and their nearly complete correspondence in number with rudimentary abdominal and functional thoracic limbs of the Thysanura especially 3Iachilis and Lepisma which also have basal appendages to the legs indicate as much affinity with insects as with myriapods and may indeed be looked upon perhaps as representing the last survival of the form from which insects may be supposed to have descended.
I name the new group Symphyla in reference to the singular combination of myriapodous insectean and thj'sanurous characters wliicli it presents.
Our conclusions as to its zoological position being nearly the same upon the details of the anatomy we disagree.
I stated in my note my interpretation of the ventral openings on the third or fourth Ijody segment.
The first condition occurs in immature specimens with less than twelve pairs of legs the last in adults.
' Genital orifice orf the ventral side of the body opening on the third or fourth bodysegment in both sexes.
In one sex the opening is a simple pore in the other a longitudinal cleft closed b means of an oblong chitinous piece on either side the two together occupying a subquadrate space.
Heart dorsal  traclieal sj'stem lepresented by a series of simple tubular arches without a spiral filament wliich arise from openings on tlie ventral surface of the animal inside the bases of the legs widening and passing upwards to and apparently in close relation with the dorsal vessel.
Intestine straight with two ver long tortuous Malpighian tubules opening into it at the posterior third S. notacantha. The main points of disagreement are in regard to the position of the genital organs and the supposed tracheal arches.
Menge states that the oviduct opens posteriorly and abovethe anus and claims to have seen the eggs in the latter and the ovary.
As to this point I did not confirm his observations although I do not deny that he may have seen real ova.
Nor do I now affirm positively that the ventral opening seen b' me is genital  the only evidence being the circumstance that I found two kinds in different individuals.
Its function maj' be that of the ventral sucker of CoUemhola.
Menge also sa3s he saw no males which is a curious fact.
His statement that the caudal stylets will adhere to a sharp point brought into contact with their tips I can confirm and I have also seen a thread drawn from them in S'.
notacantlia.
He is confident that what I took for tracheal arches are simph chitinous rods or ligaments which serve to join the sterna and the scutes.
He is mistaken however when he affirms that the posterior ones form a continuous arch since in all the specimens examined by me the arch was broken at the dorsal vessel the widened ends of the opposite halves of the arches seeming to lie against its sides.
The walls of these arched tubes showed double contours under the microscope which proves them to be hollow.
He also finds four Malpighian tubules in S. immaculata whereas I find but two in S. notacantlia.
He finds as few as seventeen joints in the antennas to as manj' as fortjtwo.
I find from four.
teen to twentj'eight in two species.
Newport speaking of the species studied by Menge finds the joints of the antenme to vary 1 onograijli of the Class Myriapoda Order Chilopoda.
Trans.
Liuu.
Soc.
XIX pp.
349439 1 PI.
1845. from twelve to twent3'eiglit and finds specimens of different ages with nine ten eleven and twelve pairs of legs.
This variability in the number of pairs of legs I have noticed m both the American forms studied by m'self.
Newport also at first thought the creature was nearly related to Geophilus but afterwards placed it between Lithobius and Scolopendra but he at last considered it the type of a family a conclusion which Gervais did not accept.
Wood says he never saAV any specimens of the famih and gives the characters assigned by Newport.
The first species described was by Gervais in 1839 from specimens found in the environs of Paris.
This species was made the type of the genus.
In his description he disagrees with Menge in the distribution of the legs.
This ma' however be on account of the difference of the species.
Order SYMPHYLA.
Amer.
Nat.
XIV p. 3756.
Head antennre and mouth parts thysanuriform.
Trachea as tubular arches without spiral filament.
Spiracles within the bases of the legs.
An orifice on the ventral side of the bod' opening on the third young or fourth adult body segment  present in some individuals as a pore in others as a longitudinal cleft closed by means of an oblong chitinous piece on either side the two together occupying a subquadrate space.
Two Malpighian tubules four Menge.
Legs fivejointed terminated by a pair of claws.
Ventral appendages at the bases of each pair of legs except the first.
Caudal stylets containing spinning glands which open at their tips.
Ovary lying dorsad of the rectum Menge.
Family SCOLOPENDRELLIDJE.
Newp.
Transac Linn.
Society XIX p. 374.
SCOLOPENDRELLA Gerv.
Comptes Eendns 1839.
S. notacantha Gerv.
Apteres IV 301 PI.
39 fig.7  Ann.
Sei.
Nat. Zool.
II 1844 p. 70 PI.
5 figs.
1517 Ryder Am.
Nat. p. 375 1880.
Hab.
France and 
Pa. and Md.
S. immaculata Newport.
Trans.
Linn.
Soe.
XIX pp.
373374 PI.
XL figs'.
4 4a b c Menge Neuste Schr.
d. naturf.
Gesell.
Danzig IV 1861 Pis.
2 Hab.
England and Germany.
 Apteres.
Suite a Buflfon Walckenaer et Gervais t. IV p. 301308.
Paris 1847.
Monogr.
North American Myriap. Trans.
Am.
Philos.
Soc XIII.
New Series 1869.
1881.
85 S. americana Packard.
Hab.
Salem Mass.
S. gratiae Ryder.
Am.
Nat.. XIV p. Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist. XVI p. Ill 1873.
Name only.
Fia S. gratia.
75 1880.
Name only.
This species Figure 1.
 may be distinguished from S. immnculata by the presence of a pair of stout hairs which diverge outwards from the sides of the body at each segment.
Head wider than bod not cordate but subpentagonal from above.
A single pair of eyes on the sides of the head behind the antennae not visible from above.
AntenniB twentonearticulate.
Length 2 to 25 mm.
Habitats Fairmonnt Park Philada  Havre de Grace Md.
 Washington D. C Franklin Co. Pa.
Under stones sticks and in damp mould.
I dedicate this handsome species to my sister.
S. microcolpa Muhr.
Zoolog.
Anzeiger IV 1881 pp.
5961 figs.
1 2 and 4.
Enlarged 25 times.
Is near S. notacantha but is said to have no ventral appendages at the bases of the legs.
I would remark however that in the specimens thought to be notacantha I find these appendages present but they are extremely small and maj' easily be overlooked.
Muhr's paper is a valuable contribution however to the anatomy of the mouth parts of a form near the species first described.
Habitat Prague Bohemia.
Figure 2 representing an American specimen of the same or nearly the same as S. notacamha has a veiy suggestive resemblance to Japijx in the shape of the body whether this is more than a resemblance I forbear to suggest.
Xo doubt now remains in my mind that dissimilar as LejAsma Machilis Lepismina Nicoletia Gampodea and Japyx at first appear upon comparison with each other their principal characters suggest in Fig.
2.
 S. notacantlia.
Enlarged 25 times.
the most forcible manner an affiliation with Scolopendrella
This is most strongly indicated in the mouth parts legs variability in the nuHiber of antcnnal joints and habits of life in all of which Scolopendrellaexhibits the strongest resemblances to the Thysanura with very marked affinities to the Myriapods as well.
The position of the ovary is that in Geophilus hut spinning organs are also characteristic of the male Geophilus and Polydesmus  a female specimen of the latter while being kept in confinement spun a web about its eggs in a jar in which I had confined it.
I never noticed that any American female Geojjhilas spun webs about their nests though I have frequently encountered masses of their beautiful amethystinecolored eggs over which they kept faithful watch.
Whether the proposed order Symphyla is sufficiently well characterized may be a matter of doubt  this can only be decided by a more elaborate investigation of its anatomy which the writer hopes to be able to carry out at no distant day.
1881.
natural sciences of philadelphia 8y March 22.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twentysix persons present.
The death of Jos.
A. Cla a member was announced.
March 29.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twenty persons present.
April 5.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Thirteen persons present.
The deaths of John Gould of London a correspondent and of Thos.
W. Starr a member were announced.
April 12.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twent'four persons present.
The death of Col. T. M. Br3'an of Yincenttown X. J. a correspondent was announced.
April 19.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twenty persons present.
A paper entitled  Observations on Planorbis by R. E. C. Stearns was presented for publication.
On the Variations of Acmsea jelfd Escholtz.
 Mr. Tryon read a portion of a letter from Mr. Henry Hemphill of Oakland California referring to certain specimens of Acmaea collected b' him.
and presented to the Academy this evening. 
I will now call your attention to Xos.
457 458 459 and 460.
I have made two trips to Monterey Cal. this winter.
During mv first visit I collected a few specimens of Acmvea pelta and its vars. and when I returned home and began to clean the specimens I was ver' much puzzled over some specimens of No.
458.
SeA'eral years ago I had collected shells of No.
459 at Monterey which at that time I called Nacelki imtabilis but these half and half varieties did not appear at that time.
After a little reflection on the matter I began to suspect the true condition of the subject and became so much interested in it that I concluded to go to Monterey again and try to work it up and I think I have done so.
It is simply a question of station. 
When the 3'Oung of A. pel I a stations itself on the kelp Fhyllospora 3Ienziesii g it assumes the aspect of Nacella and as long as it remains on the kelp it does not change its color in the least and only varies its form to suit the shape of the stems of the kelp to which it attaches itself.
But when from an cause it leaves the kelp and takes to the rocks it seems to begin immediately to paint np and ornament itself after tlie fashion of the specimens I have sent yon. 
When it remains on the kelp a long time and completes its growth we then have Nacella instabilis and if living in an exposed position its apex becomes worn the sculpture faint etc.
When the 3'oung station themselves on the rocks they do not assume the Nacella aspect at all but commence immediately to adorn themselves in gay and beautiful eoloi'S as you will see by the fine series of No.
457.
Now for the facts and reasons why 1 came to this conclusion.
I collected about 200 living specimens on the kelp in all stages of growth and out of the 200 I found but two specimens that varied their color at all  one was a very young and small secimen with a few light dots on or near the apex and the other was a large specimen with a tesselateil border on the inside I also collected about 200 on the rocks and ever one was more or less variegated with eitlier the square dots or alternate rays of white and black while those that had evidently been on the kelp had their tesselated borders well advanced.
We must also take into consideration the fact that Monterey is the most southern point at wliich Nacella instabilis has been found and it is quoted by Dnll as rare there.
The water of the bay where these half and half No.
458 are found and also others is comparatively smooth to Avhat it is on the outside where the typical Nacella is found which will account for the preservation of the apex and sculpture and may have something to do with the form and undoubtedly is the cause why it is rare at Monterey.
To show the effe.ct of station with probably other causes I send you a full series of a very pretty var.
of A. pelta from Olympia Puget Sound W. T. 461 to 46'i inclusive that I collected last summer.
Station on Mytilus edulis. 
This very pretty var has almost the exact form and looks like a hnge Nacella peltoideii Dall and is a very interesting addition to our limets.
1881.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
89 April 26.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in tlie chair.
Twentysix persons present.
A paper entitled  List of Fishes collected by Mr. W. J. Fisher npon the coasts of Lower California 181677 with descriptions of new species hy W. X. Lockington was presented for publication.
The death of Dr. J. Dickinson Logan a member was announced.
Motility in Plants.
 Mr. Thomas Meehan remarked that comparatively little knowledge of motion had been gained since the time of Linnteus.
The recent work of Mr. Darwin on the motions of plants was a A'aluable contribution to the subject though confined to motion in roots and leaves.
He thought it would serve the cause of science to note that the presence or absence of light in itself could not as so often assumed account for all the phenomena of motion.
He had made numerous and careful observations this season on motility in Draha verna which plant so far as he knew had not been observed to have an' peculiarities.
The petals are usually closed during the early season though the pedicels are erect in the daytime di'ooping so as to form almost a perfect circle at night.
These pedicels become erect about three hours after sunrise when there is about twelve hours of sun in the day commencing to droop at about two o'clock in the afternoon.'
This diurnal motion in the pedicels continues some da's after the petals have fallen and apparentl as long as the silicic continues to grow.
Later in the season on clear days the petals commence to open early in the morning contemporaneoush' with the rising of the pedicel  by the time this was erect the petals Avould be nearlj' expanded.
The expansion when the sun rose at halfpast five or six would be complete by nine A. M. Strange to say no matter how clearlj the sun might continue to shine the petals commence to close about noon and b' about two P. M are completeh' closed.
During the course of his observations there was a period of four da3's cloudy and no attempt at expansion was made.
The fourth day however was so slightly cloud that the eye could scarcely look at the sun through the thin cloudj veil The amount of absolute light could be little less than on some days earlier in the season when the sun was wholly unclouded but still there was no attempt at expansion of the petals.
Continued observations seemed to show that not mere light but clear sunlight was necessarj' to the opening of the flower.
One evening there was a heavy thunder shower  the next da7 i was densely cloudy warm and moist but the flowers of the Draha expanded just as well as under the bright sun of previous days 
These facts show that we cannot refer the opening of the flowers either to light or sunlight alone.
Mr. Meehan believed that plants not onl behaved differently at different times but in different countries and as no one not even Mr. Darwin seems to have noted the expansion of the petals of the Draba in England it is possible that under those cloudy skies they do not expand at all.
So far as he had noted here the selffertilized flowers of the closed Drabas produced seed just as well as the expanded ones which might possibly be occasionally crossfertilized by the small sand wasps which visited the open flowers freely for pollen.
How habits change at times Mr. Meehan illustrated  specimens of Lamium aviplexicanle a common introduced weed in gardens.
Dr. Bromfleld in his Flora of the Isle of Wight notices that the flowers vary in size during the season but that the earliest ones are the largest.
Here it is reversed.
The specimens exhibited had already flowered from six verticels and had mature seeds in many but the flowers had never expanded in any case.
Indeed very rarely had the closed corollas been produced beyond the calyx.
They were essentially cleistogene.
As showing how unceriain were the laws influencing this condition when usually about the end of April the perfect flowers appeared some plants would have them a week or more before others alongside produced any.
To all appearances external influences were the same.
As somewhat bearing on the laws of motion the angle of divergence in branches was referred to.
Mr. M. exhibited branches of tSaJix capiea.
Normally the branches separated from each other at a very acute angle but the fertile anient on these branches was pendulous.
Under no external influence so far as we could tell an individual appears with pendulous branches.
This has been increased by grafting and is known in nurseries as the Kilmarnock weeping willow.
But the aments have retained their normal condition as regards the bi'anch.
The catkins are erect on the pendulous branches while pendulous on the erect ones.
Morphologically a catkin is but a modifled  an arrested  branch but we see by this that whatever cause induced the change from the normal condition of divergence it vas purely local and ceased to exist before it reached the arrested branch or ament.
These facts were offered to show that in studjing motility in the vaiious parts of plants it would be well to remember that external causes had but a limited influence and that in these cases a combination of circumstances often controlled the influences attributed to one.
As therefore the ficts would vary with various observations those of one observer sometimes seeming rather to conflict with than to confirm another  it was too soon to form any just conclusion as to the motive cause.
What was desired was not so much these speculations but an increase in the number of observers and a correct record of well authenticated facts.
The resignation of Dr. Henry C. Chapman as a member of the Council was read and accepted.
Jesse S. Walton and Harrj Skinner were elected members.
The following Avas ordered to be published  OBSERVATIONS ON PLANORBIS.
BY ROBERT E. C. STEARNS.
I.
Are the Shells of Planorbis Dextral or Sinistral 
Incidental to an investigation into the relations of certain freshwater snails upon looking through the books I find that authorities differ on the point whether the shells of Planorbis are dextral or sinistral.
While Say Swainsou G. B. Sowerby Jr. and Reeve  regard them as sinistral or reversed and properly figure the shells in their works in a sinistral position and not  upside down as in many of the books Macgillivray says ''the shell is dextral as several observers have proved not sinistral as many have alleged and Woodward H. and A. Adams'' W. G. Binney' and others also describe it or refer to it as being dextral.
Dall remarks in a footnote to his paper  On the Genus Pompholyx and its Allies  if we consider the shells of this group as dextral they oflfer the peculiarity of having the genitalia as in most sinistral shells  Pompholyx presents the same conditions and is certainly dextral.
Dr. Philip P. Carpenter referring to Planorbis says  it lives in a reversed position.
'' It will be observed from the above that eminent writers are divided and that we have substantial authority on both sides of the question.
My own observations thus far prove the shells to be generally sinistral but as I have examined but comparativel' few of the whole number of species it may be that the shells in some species are dextral and in other species sinistral.
1 Say ex Binney L. and F. W. Shells of N. A Part II p. 103.
Treatise on Malacology p. 337.
 Conchological Manual p. 245.
 Conchologia Systematica PI.
CXC.
 Molluscous Animals of Scotland p. 114. 
Manual of MoUusca second ed. p. 302.
 Genera of Recent Mollusca Vol.
II p. 260.
' Smithsonian Miss.
Pub.
No.
143 p. 103. a Annals of Lyceum of Nat.
History of N. Y. Vol.
IX March 1870.
'0 Lectures on Mollusca S. I.
Report 1860. 
The figures of Say's larger species in Gould's luvertebrata of Mass. first ed. are most excellent.
G. B. Sowerbj'  Jr. in comparing Planorbis with certain Ampullariffi Marisa says  It is further to be remarked that the discoidal Ampulhirife are dextral shells and the Planorbes are sinistral or reversed  and although the latter are sometimes so flat and orbicular that it is difficult to know which is the spiral side it may nevertheless always be ascertained b' a careful examination.
i While the anatomy of Planorhiii in its principal characters is presumed to be sinistral and indicates with the sum of other characters including habitat a most intimate relationship to Pnjsa which has as is well known a sinistral shell yet some of the authors who affirm the sinistral character of the soft parts or body say also that the species of this genus Planorbis have a dextral sliell an inclusive and broad statement which applies to all of the species and apparently repeat this tradition or else assume that it is so because the great majorit' of gasteropodous moUusks which have shells at all have dextral shells the exceptions being comparativeh' few.
If we consider what are regarded as apical characters in forms about which there is no question and it is permitted to reason from analogy in this connection it will be seen that some species of Planorbis have sinistral shells and I submit as examples sustaining this position the larger West American forms known as P. amnion fig.
1 Gould  P. Traskii Lea P. trivolvis fig.
2 Say 2  4P. var.
occidentalism Cp.
MSS.
 P. lumens Cpr. P. subcrenafus figs.
33a Cpr. P.corpulentus figs.
44a Say and P. tumidus Pfr. from Nicaragua also P. corneas.
L. Britain as shown in authentic specimens received from an experienced and  Concliological Manual p. 345.
Pacific Coast specimens.
 This species more nearly resembles P. corneus than does any other American form.
Many of the smaller socalled species A.mevican are exceedingly close to the smaller forms of Europe and it is not unlikely a careful investigation would place some of them under the names previously made by the earlier authors.
Mr. W. G. Binney writes of Physa hypnorum it is one of the species common to the three continents  and of Limmca he says  It seems certain that the boreal regions are inhabited by several species common to similar latitudes in A.sia and Europe such as L. stagnalis and L. palmtris. This remark will ultimately be found to apply with equal truth to species of Planorbis.
I 94 1881. trustworthy correspondent near London.
This latter is the only large European species I am familiar with.
While it is neither proven nor asserted herein that all species of Planorbis liave sinistral shells neither is it known that the anatomy of all the species is sinistral.
The relations of Planorbis to Limnsea are not so remote as to make it altogether unwarrantable to look for a divergence in that direction.
The extreme variableness of Planorbis has undoubtedly led to the making of too many species  specimens which are conceded Fig.
1 Fig.
37.
P. trivolvis.
Say.
P. suhcrenatus Cpr.
Fig.
4.
Fig.
4a.
P. ammon Gld.
P. subcrenatus Cpr.
P. corpulentus Say.
to be of the same species from difierent though adjacent ponds etc. vary more or less and this is particularly the case with West American forms which are in various degrees affected by the character of the water temperature etc.
While it is quite certain that the specific names herein given would be reduced b' a careful and philosophical comparison at this time I can onl refer to them as they now stand in the books  I may mention P. tumens from near Petaluma as a dwarfed variety of P. corpulentus  varieties of the latter are frequently confused with P. ammon.
1881.
95 It may here be remarked that Macgillivra an enthusiastic observer Avho has described some of the.
British species with great fidelity lays much stress on the shape of the mouth comparing it with those of Helix and Zonites as conclusive of the dextial character of the shells in Planorhis If analogies in form of mouth are worthy of consideration though this point may not have much weight without otlier and corroborative evidence we have in this character a stronger argument the other way b more propeiiy a comparison between nearer related forms like Physa that is the more globose species and most of the forms of Planorhia I have given holding the latter in a normal sinistral position when the tendency to the phsoid moutli tlie ovate shape and sag of the aperture will be readily noticed.
Frequently immature halfgrown and less than halfgrown shells of Planorhis have been brought to me by collectors who were quite confident they had made new discoveries and it is not improbable that j'oung shells as above have been described and published as new species of Physa.
Fig.
6.
Fig.
5.
Fig.
7.
Ameria scalaris Jay.
Physa globosa Physa hiimerosa Gld.
Hald.
Fig.
8 Fig.
9.
Physa ancillaria Say.
Physa ampullacca Gld.
I would further suggest a comparison of the apertures of our larger Californian adult shells of Planorhis held in a sinistral position with Ameria scalaris fig.
5  Paludina scalaris Jay a curious Florida form  Physella globosa fig.
6 Hald. a Tennessee  It is presumable that the shells of Planorhis by which Macgillivray was impressed and which were the most familiar to him were the small species of his own country which are flat symmetrically coiled regular in form and gradual in growth being in striking contrast with the sturdier ventricose West American forms I have cited which also more conspicuously exhibit sinistral characters.
Dall says  A careful examination of a number of specimens of this singular form shows that it is distinct and not a young Planorhis as has 96 PROCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OP 1881. species also with other species of PJiysa like P. hvmerom fig.
7 P. ancillaria fig.
8 P. ampullacea fig.
9' etc. ct sic de similihus.
We shall however find more satisfactory testimony on the sinistral point by analyzing the apical characters.
If as in other shells we consider that to be the upper end or spire in which we can follow tlie volutions through the entire shell from tip or nucleus to the ultimate or basal whorl and mouth  then it is impossible to avoid the conclusion that some species of Planorbis have sinistral shells.
In some of the smaller forms like P. vortex P. conforfus P. glaber P. carinatus and P. spirorbis all of which are British species and in which the whorls are in comparison with larger American forms quite evenly coiled and in which also the increase in size of whorl is quite gradual the difference between the two sides of the shell apical and umbilical is not as readily perceived.
The largest British species P. corneus confirms my view being sinistral.
The rapid enlargement of the whorls in some of the West American species is in marked contrast with even the shells of P. corneus of the same diameter  the height of the latter as compared to P. corjnilentus being as 31 to 54 while the length of the aperture is in still greater contrast being as 42 to YG.
These measurements were made from averagesized perfect specimens of both species placed apex up with the mouth to the left It is easy to perceive that in those forms where the ratio of increase is great as between the last whorl and the preceding Arolution and so on whorl compared with whorl through the whole as for instance in P. ammon that the depression of both spire and umbilicus is most marked  but nevertheless the umbilicus is the more profound as may easily be proved by counting the volutions first on one side and then on the other.
Again if additional proof is wanted take any one of the larger forms of the species herein named and carefully by degrees burn off the under side which can easily be done by pouring a little been suspected. rtrt7s N. T. Lyceum Nat.
Hist. Vol.
IX p. 35G  footnote.
1 As distorted individuals with the volutions exceedingly irregular are of frequent occurrence in making the test suggested such monstrosities should be rejected as they would as often unduly favor one side of the question as the other.
acid in a saucer or watchglass until the shell is eaten off to a line which obliterates the umbilicus when the nucleus of the spire the tip and half a whorl to a whorl and ahalf will be found remaining.
Those who insist on the dextral character of the shells in Planorhis unless the' except the species I have named are thus compelled to demonstrate how in the sequence of growth the umbilicus can precede the nucleus.
Though specimens of the forms under discussion in various embryonic stages have frequently excited my attention jet the material so far as adolescence is connected with the present line of inquiiy was at the moment unfortvinatel inaccessible.
I have therefore been compelled in order to present such structural features of the shells as are related to the direction right or left of the volutions the form of the aperture etc. to use adult specimens and by breaking back piece by piece and whorl after whorl towards the nucleus until the larger whorls are sufflcientl removed so that the apex or spire ceases to be either concave or depressed and is simply flat.
It would be almost if not quite impossible to do this with the smaller species owing to their diminutive size and exceeding fragility and difficult to obtain the necessar sections for illustration herein by the use of acid.
The figures 10 are drawn from specimens of Planorhis coiyulentus collected in Oregon also in Clear Lake Fig.
10.
California by that indefatigable collector Mr. C. D. Yoy.
Before manipulation they measured as follows  Plan corpuientusLargest diameter .
.
94 inch.
nuclear whorls.
Height.
.
.
.
 .
38 inch.
Number of whorls four and ahalf which were broken back to one and ahalf whorls with a diameter of 10 inch.
 height 15 inch.
The umbilicus in one instance was still discernible  in the others destrojed.
This species is widely distributed and occupies an extensive geographical area on the western side of the continent from the Columbia River in the north  easterly to Lake Winnipeg  and southerly to Cape St. Lucas.
 Binney says  F. corpulentus is catalogued from Guatemala b Mr. Tristram  Prof. Geo.
Davidson collected specimens at this place.
98 1881.
Fig.
11.
Plan tumidusnnoleixr whorls.
P. Traskii Lea whicli Mr. Binney makes a synonym of P. ammon belongs to the western corpulentus form.
While the forcooing figures 10 show the shells of one species reduced to one and ahalf whorls the following figures exhibit the form of Planorhis tumidus Pfr. which measured in Largest diameter .
.
.
.
'68 inch with five whorls reduced by breaking down to two and ahalf whorls and a diameter of '16 inch.
This last is a more southern species .
numerous specimens were collected by the late Thos.
Bridges who found them abundant in elevated pools small lakes etc. amid the forest slopes of Mombacho in Nicaragua.
It closely resembles more northern forms and should hardly be called a species.
It will be observed in the figures 10 that we have in the embryonic shells of Planorhis corpulentus a near approach to Physa a close resemblance to a Physa with a flattened spire  suggesting such physoid forms as P. humerosa while the adolescent stage of Planorhis tumidus at half its adult size also suggests an umbilicated Physa with a flattened spire somewhat like N. W. American Physa Lordi fig.
12 with the spire cut off and an umbilicus punched in back of the mouth.
The first figures 10 explain De Kay's  Physa jAanorbula  fig.
13 and also suggestively point towards Ameria scalaris.
These figures also exhibit the phj'soid mouth and show that there is neither necessity nor propriety ysa or i.
. leaving closely related forms for more distant analogies.
In this connection it should also be kept in mind that certain species of Physa included in Ehrenberg's subgenus Isido7'a are more or less umbilicated.
Of the smaller species of Planorhis which have passed under ray examination I have seldom found it difficult to determine the sinistral characters b a comparison of the two sides of the shell.
If we could unroll a specimen of say Planorhis sjnrorhis and Fig.
13.
Physa 2lanorbula.
1881.J 99 then straighten it out it woukl resemble in minatiire an acutely elongated conical tube in a general way like the following figure  Fig.
14.
X  s '   N Fig.
of which N represents the nucleus A the aperture or mouth and ML a median line.
Xow it will readil be seen that such a tube if simply wound up or made into a flat coil and during the process of winding kept horizontalh and laterally in plane with the central or median line which divides the tube into equal parts would in an exceedingly small shell make it somewhat difficult to determine which was the apical or the umbilical that is the upper or under side of the shell as the nucleus and nuclear whorls in such a case would be equall' as perceptible on one side of the shell as on the other and the concavit or depression of both sides would be the same bejng equal to onehalf of the diameter of the tube as seen at X.
The Californiau species to which I have referred instead of being represented b an attenuated tube like the preceding figure which very slowly increases in circumference from nucleus to aperture would if unwound give us a more robust form a more rapidly enlarging conical tube like this fig.
15  X being the nucleus A the aperture and ML the median line.
It will be seen that if this tube commencing at X the nucleus was evenly coiled upon the median line the nucleus as in the first instance though very much more depressed owing to the greater diameter of the tube as seen at X could be equallywell seen on the two sides the umbilical and apical depressions being the same.
When the line of coil is other than median and the greater portion of the tube or shell is below the line of coil as is the case with the species I find to be sinistral then of course the umbilicus is the more and the apex the less depressed and therefore the latter is more easily discerned.
Another point too important to be overlooked is the form of the tube as exliibited in a transverse or cross section  whether circular semilunar or horizontally or perpendicularly ovate.
Some of the larger species have tubes which in cross section are of the latter shape hence the physoid aspect of the aperture both in adult and embryonic specimens.
Since the foregoing was written the shells which appear in the list appended hereto as from Lake Simcoe came to hand.
The lot embraced three species of Planorhis.
Several specimens of rather small size of P. trivolvis are of the western P. corpulentus character and sinistral.
Twentyfive specimens of P. campanulatus Say are also sinistral as described by that author and three specimens of P. bicarinatus are dextral though described as sinistral b' Say.
Of the smaller American species glanced at by me in the course of investigation I find P. vermicularis from Utah Lake U. T. is sometimes dextral.
From what is presented above it will I think be admitted that some species of Planorbes have shells whose structure is in harmony with the sinistral characters of the anatomy as might reasonably be presumed and it is not unlikely that such will prove to be the rule and not the exception when an extended and critical examination of the whole group has been made.
I do not propose at this time to inquire into the origin of the related forms referred to in this paper  but the suggestions which have incidentally occurred in or grown out of the consideration of the simpler points discussed impress me as inviting investigation.
The following species of Planorhis from the localities stated have been especially examined in connection herewith.
 P. trivolois Erie Canal N. Y.
  Tinker's Creek Lake Co. Willoughby O    Foot's Pond Woodburn near Cincinnati Ohio   Lake Winnebago Wisconsin.
  Wabash River Posey Co. Indiana.
 '' Covington Kentucky f  Washoe Lake Nevada.
Note.
 I am indebted to the courtesy of the Smithsonian Institution for all of the figures herein except 10 11 14 and 15 which are original.
1881.
101 Near Salt Lake Utah T. Utah Lake U. T. Carthage Ohio.
Cumbeiland Co. Tennessee.
Cumberland Co. Tennessee.
Tuolumne Meadows Tuolumne Co. Cal.
Indian River Texas.
Bexar County Texas.
Miami Florida.
Lake Simcoe Canada.
Near Portland Oregon.
Lake Simcoe Canada.
Traskii Clear Lake Lake Co. Cal. 
Oregon Mus.
Stearns.
Cp.
Russian River near Ukiah Cal.
King's River Cal.
Mountain Lake near San Francisco Cal.
Santa Cruz Cal.
Los Angeles Cal Nicaragua.
East Tennessee.
Erie Canal N. Y. McHenry County Ills Portland Oregon.
Lake Simcoe Canada.
Clear Lakes of Indian River Florida.
Orono Maine.
Henry County Ills.
Salinas River Cal.
Great Britain many localities.
The note marks above refer to the following parties from whom the material examined was received   Prof. A. G. Wetherbj'  t C. D. Voj  t Henry Hemphill  ft 'Crawford   Dr. Edward Palmer  the late Thomas Bridges  0.
Button   the late W. W. Walpole Esq. from all of whom I have received most generous assistance.
As to the validity of the species or determinations as above it is not necessarj' to discuss the matter in this paper as it is not pertinent to the objective point but as may naturally be supposed b' any one who has had occasion to examine into the literature relating to the group and to make a critical comparison of mateX P. ti'ivolvis    P. between Icntus and glabratus.
 P. approaching glabratus.
 P. approaching lentus.
X P. near ttimens  P. near corpulentus   .
  '  tt K  X P. corpulentus tt n t  var.
X P. var.
occidentalis tt .
'  tt  .
 t  u X P. tumens XX P. tumidus  P. glabratus  P. bicarinata  n X u tt u  P. lentus.
 P. campamdatus.
 n II P. ammon IT p. corneus rial I have found much that is unsatisfactory and it is not asserting too much to say that too many species have been made and that a careful revision is required  and in this connection which shows the wellknown variability of the group I may mention the examination of a parcel of specimens from a single  pond back of Covington Kentucky kindly furnished by Professor Wetherby which admits of a separation resulting in three species and a remainder which readily connects all three  for this reason I do not claim that the determinations as given are always consistent though carefully considered  as before remarked however the point I have endeavored to present is not affected thereby.
II.
On certain Aspects of Variation in American Planorbes.
In the course of the preceding inquiry various aspects of variation as exhibited in the material under examination were constantly recurring.
Without presuming to explain such phenomena which would quite likely be a difficult matter even if all the peculiarities of environment in each case or of each lot of shells examined were known and without such data quite hypothetical yet a few notes and comments suggested by the forms referred to may be worth a passing notice.
The larger socalled species of Planorbis may for convenience in discussion be grouped as follows  First.
Those in which the whorls are rounded  that is to say Figs.
16 and 17. if the tube or cone as represented in the preceding paper was cut trans versel the section would show a rounded not round outline.
Examples The typical P. corneus L. of Europe P. Guadaloupensis Shj.f P. suhcrenatus figs.
16 It Cpr. and P. tumidus Pfr.' of Nicaragua a quite persistent form not however quite as rounded as the others.
Second.
Those in which the whorls are either planulate angulated carinated or subpTsubaenatus Cpr
carinatcd which includes most of the larger 1 Woodward's Manual PI.
XII fig.
34  Sby.
's Manual PI.
XIV fig.
311  Keeve Conch.
System. PI.
CXC fig.
1.
' Ibid fig.
2.
' Binney L. and F. W. Shells N. A. Part II figs.
176 178.
1881.
103 Xorth American species riGS.
18 and V..
Examples  P. corpidentus figs.
18 19 Saj' P.Traskii Lea. P occidentalism Cp. and P. hicarinatus fig.
20 Sa3 In these the tube if cut transversely would present an outline more or less angulated.
Forms like P. trivolvis fig.
21 Say connect the two groups  for while in some inst'nees this species exhibits the rounded whorls of the first it imperceptibh differentiates from the above to obtuse angulation and p. corpuientus Say.
q to the subcarinate forms of the second bicarinatiLS Say.
jronp P. amnion fig Fig.
21.
Fig.
22.
P. irivolvis.
Say.
22 Gould must be mentioned here as it illustrates another aspect of variation that of a more rapid enlargement of the whorls the result of a more obtuse cone than in trivolvis this when flattened above or angulated gives us the form P Traskii the most striking of all the American Planorbes  it is the extreme or culmination of the flattened or planulated aspect in the second group of species of which P. corpidentus is a well known form and more wideljdistributed than the other  Dr. Cooper's P. occidentalis being an intermediate link between t'pical P. tricoluis and ordinary average specimens of P. corpidentus.
Southern specimens of trivolvis seem to be nearer the southern form of P. lentus than do average specimens of these alleged species from northern stations  and both of the above from soutlierlstations approach more closelto the European corneus than do northern specimens of the same  the same mav be said of the Xicarasfuan P. tumidus.
p. ammon GIJ.
 Biiineys figures ibid.
P. hicarinatus the cone of which is less robust than that of P. amnion oi' P. Traskii being in that respect nearer to the typical trivolvis exhibits the culmination of the carinated or keeled character of the second group and appears to mark tlie limit in this direction having reached what may be termed a permanent point.
This species is usually quite persistent as to plane of coil  though in Binney it is reported from a single station as far south as Northern Georgia  it seems to prefer northerly regions.
It is apparently of rare occurrence west of the Rocky Mountains.
Mr. Hemphill informed me that he detected two or three individuals at Antioch California a station peculiar in its enviromental characters being at a point where the Sacramento and San Joaquin Rivers meet and unite the drainage waters of the two great valleys of the same names mingling in combined volume their fresh water with the salt tidalwater from San Francisco Bay.
Other forms are sometimes found at this point  they seem unable to obtain a foothold or to establish a permanent colony or settlement.
The region is one of marshes which sustain a rank growth of coarse vegetation especially what is known as tales whicli sift as it were the waters and hold for a time forms which during the great floods of excessively wet winters are swept from their native haunts through the submersion or overflow of the ponds lakes and streams of a vast interior region.
Thus Mr. Carlton found a few juvenile specimens of Carinifex here in May 1869 which like Mr. Hemphill's specimens of P. bicarinatus had never before nor so far as I can learn have never since been reported from this place nor any point in the adjoining region.
In fact the only habitat west of the Rocky Mountains I believe from which this Planorbis is reported on good authority is Oregon  I have specimens from Portland collected by Mr. Hemphill.
A frequent aspect of variation in the forms falling within the first gi'oup is that of occasional bulgings or swellings as seen in P. glabratus Say and P. tuinens Cpr. suggesting periodicity in growth or rather periods of hibernation or rest and periods of activit' at the termination of which a mouth or expansion of the 1 Proc.
Cal.
Acad. Vol.
IV p. 50 aperture analagous to a varix is formed  and this repeated as the animal advances towards maturity imparts to the shell its special feature.
It will be readily seen by this that any of these forms scattered or distributed over a wide region in northerly or extremely elevated stations where the season of cold reaches a maximum against which protection must be sought by hibernation might in some of their colonies be subjected to such conditions and hibernation be the only protection as in the land snails of arid regions against seasons of excessive drought and in other regions against the cold of winter  and bulged or varicose variation be produced in a perfectly simple way that is in harmony with or through the operation of a general law  and this variation be perpetuated for some time in colonies migrating from such stations to a more genial habitat  until after awhile some of the descendants of these varicose ancestors reach places where hibernation is unnecessary by reason of a permanency or mean of conditions  temperature suppl' and quality of water being in equilibrium with the usual requirements of these animals  and the ordinary smooth evenlygrown shells again prevail through reversion to the original form.
To return to the groups as above the Covington Pond specimens referred to in part first connect said groups being what may be called  trivolvis with variations   that species or general form being through its plasticit' the connecting link.
Still another aspect of variation is shown in Ingersoll's  P. plexata from St. Maiy's Lake Antelope Park Colorado.
Here we have a variation not unusual in the various Planorbes and not confined to any of the larger species that of irregularity in winding as if through extreme torsion the coil cockled  the whorls twisting off the line or plane of volution.
P. plexata is an eccentrically coiled trivolvis the deviation from plane of volution having somewhat of regularity of occurrence and not improbably owing to the same cause as that to which I attribute the bulging in the glabratus form namel  to recurring seasons of hibernation and activity when the new growth hardly makes a  good joint  as a mechanic might say with the edges of the previous mouth  the heavy water plants at the bottom of the lake described by Mr. Ingersoll quite likely perform a part in causing or contributing to the irregular winding of the shell at  See Hayden's Reports Teriitorial Surveys 1874 p. 402. the time when a new growth comniences  when tlie shell which is to be is liardly more tiian plastic membrane not backed up with a still'ening ol' lime as it is after the fabric is perfected.
In Mountain Lake near San Francisco a few miles west of said city curionsly distorted pond snails of the genus Physa occur which at one time some years ago excited attention.
The season of their growth is the summer and its generative warmth is accompanied with the trade winds which blow across the lake with considerable violence  the plastic shells of the Ph3'sa are forced against plants chips and various fragments odds and ends atloat in or around the lake  and the outer lip thus gets dented and bent giving a curious twist to many of the individuals.
A figure 128 illustrating a distorted specimen from the foregoing locality is given by Mr. Binney in his L. and F. W. Shells of North America.
However I have no reason to believe that this deformit is transmitted as only a small proportion of the multitude are affected.
The specimens on which Mr. Ingersoll's species is based were found by him as stated in a snowfed pond of small size between or among high cliffs.
As before implied the vacillations in plane of coil may be owing to interruption of growth by recurringperiods of hibernation the characters in the environment mentioned by Mr. Ingersoll affording a reasonable solution of the phenomena.
Such ponds are subject to marked climatic contingencies  and sometimes or rather in some years their basins are nearly pr quite dry  and again fluctuations of temperature according to the volume of water which is an important factor are far more critical in small ponds than in lakes or large bodies of water where the extremes of temperature as well as other conditions as quality of water are less variable or extreme.
These two aspects of variation bulging and irregularity in coiling are exhibited with more or less frequency in all of the larger American species and in a greater or less degree throughout the entire area inhabited by Planorbis  occurring oftener perhaps among colonies which inhabit elevated stations than with those living at altitudes nearer the level of the sea.
I am of the belief too that these aspects of variation are less frequent among colonies inhabiting southerly and semitropical regions.
All of the variations referred to are when present more conspicuous in the larger forms west of the Rocky Mountains for the reason that some of them reach a size very much in excess of the largest individuals of the same species from points east of said range.
The carinated and planulate forms seem to be freer from the bulging or variceal peculiarity than the others.
As to the relations of the various species to each other or their interrelations it is quite evident that many of them have an immediate common ancestry.
P. trivolvis  Ptrivolvis var.
fallax  P. lentus of the American species appears to be the dominant stockform and maj' be regarded as Americanized Cornells if a seraipolitical term may be used in a physicogeographical sense  its presence in the company of such forms as Limneea stagnalis L. palustris and others of circumpolar distribution indicates a geographical identity with the European species.
While the Planor.bes attain their maximum of size in that part of North America west of the Rocky Mountains and north of latitude 30 N. the number of supposed species or of forms which present characters more or less distinct are more numerous east of said range.
There is apparently no relation between altitude of habitat and size of shell.
The quantity of Westcoast material accessible at this moment is too small to enable me to give a satisfactory exhibit of measurements.
The following will however convey a fair idea of the robust proportions of the more conspicuous WestAmerican forms the first and second being P. trivolvis and the third P. amnion.
1.
Utah Lake U. T. elevation 4498'.5 feet.
Greater diameter 141  lesser 104 inches.
Long of aperture 71  longitudinal diameter of whorl at juncture of parietal callus 45 inch.
2.
Washoe Lake Nevada elevation 5006 feet.
Greater diameter 130  lesser 101 inches.
Long of aperture '60 long of whorl at junction of parietal callus 47 inch.
3.
Salinas Yalley Cal. elevation 100  feet.
Greater diameter 124 lesser '98 inch.
Long of aperture 90 long diameter of whorl at junction of parietal callus '55 inch.
4.
Clear Lake Cal. elevation 1323 feet.
Greater diameter 105  lesser 74 inch.
Long of aperture 77  long diameter at junction of parietal callus 76 inch.
This last 4 is a typical Traskii.
A comparison of the meas108 1881.
FlQ.
23.
P. trivolvis.
Original.
Fig 24. urements of the aperture and of the whorl at the junction of the parietal callus in this and 3 P. amnion with similar measurements in 1 and 2 P. trivolvis wiW give a good idea of the relative obtuseness of their cones or tubes as well as of the inflation or patulous aspect of the aperture and of its effect on the physiognomy of the shell.
A typical P. corneus Britisli specimens of 110 inches greater diameter measures 87 inch lesser diameter while the longitude of aperture is '42 and longitudinal diameter at junction of parietal callus is 30 inch.
The following original figures from nature show the Washoe Lake form as above fig.
23 while fig.
24 from the same locality also illustrates the distortion resulting by deviation from or eccentricity in plane of coil.
The sinistral or dextral inquiry led to the discovery that P. bicarinatus is sometimes right and sometimes left  this is an interesting fact because said species exhibits certain analogies with other peculiar and characteristic forms.
The ielations of the dextral Carinifex whose planorboid character led Dr. Lea p.MuotoM.
Original distorted o describe it as a Planorhis are apparently closer to P. bicarinatus than to any other species.
The exceeding variability of Carinifex is seen by the figures here given which however do not fully represent the range of variation.
Figs.
25 26 27.
In the light of our present knowledge it should perhaps be regarded only as a coincidence that the very territory from which P. bicarinatus is with the two exceptions of Hemphill's Antioch and Portland Oregon localities entirely absent is the territory inhabited by Carinifex and in which it has been found either recent or fossil.
When the immense area of this territory is considered the number of localities in which it has been detected are few  still Fig.
26.
From Lea's types.
Klamath and Canoe Ureek specimens.
Fig.
27.
From Lea's types.
Klamath and Canoe Creek Specimens.
Carin'eaiiewfierryt and varieties these fcW are SO related the One tO the Variety from Pitt River Cal.
1 Binney's L. and F. W. Shells of N. A. Part II p..74. other as to indicate a wide and general disti'ibution within its boundaries.
These localities are as follows commencing at the easternmost station  1.
Utah Territor  near Utah Lake in Wahsatch Mountains collected hy Dr. Edward Palmer.
Museum Stearns.
Semifossil. 
2.
Nevada Tertiaries  as Vorticifex Tryoni Meek in King's Survey.
3.
California  Owen's Yalley collected living by Hemphill   The most southern locality.
The animal undistinguishable externally from that of PJanorhia ammoiV Cooper.
4.
California  Klamath Lake and Canoe Creek living  Dr. J. S. Newberry.
S. I.
Collection.
5.
California Pitt River Dr. Cooper  living.
S. I.
Collection.
6.
California Clear Lake living Dr. Yeatch.
S. I. Collection.
Cooper makes a var.

''minor'' of specimens from this place.
7.
California Antioch  living.
Carlton.
' A few Aery young ones perhaps a dwarfed southern variety like those from Clear Lake.
8.
California Livermore Valley Alameda County in the hills north of Martin's near Tassajara Cooper fossil  label marked  Planorbis etc. Tertiary 
in State Geol.
Survey Coll. Univ.
of Cal.
The Utah specimens though small are mature and include the form rounded above like Meek's Nevada species as well as the more flattened and grooved features of the Tassajara  specimens which approach in size and general characters more closely to Lea's type fig.
25.
Some of Palmer's Utah specimens are elevated and vary in the direction of fig.
27 though not terraced or keeled as much  the lot of only a dozen specimens exhibits a remarkable range of variation.
There are striking analogies between the shells of Garinifex in its varieties and the Australasian brackish water Amphibolse.
A new species has been made on one of the varieties by Mr. Smith of the British Museum which he named C. Ponsonbii'  Tassajara is the name of a stream which is frequently dry in the latter part of summer.
' Proc.
Zool.
Soc. 1875 p. 536.
Also Quar.
.Tour.
Conch. Vol.
I p. 150. the specimens Tere collected by Lord Walsingham in Cnlifornia.
There are several varieties still nndescribed which challenge the attention of those who are ambitious in this direction.
Garinifex exhibits manj of the variations in form of tube or cone in crosssection which are seen in Planorbis without the bulgings of the varicose forms and plus the elevation of spire which is seen especiall in extreme individuals like the figure  the outline of the mouth is very much like that of P. hicarinatus and in some of its varieties suggests a P. hicarinatui with the umbilicus deepened by pushing up the spire from below.
With the discovery of new localities and ample material both recent and fossil without doubt the sequence of variation wall be traced and its relation to meteorological geological and chemical changes within the area of its distribution partially indicated.
In this connection I would direct attention to Prof. Hyatt's interesting letter to Mr. Ingersoll referring to Steinheim fossils and to the Valvatse of Lawlor's Lake Nova Scotia in Prof. F. V. Hayden's Report 1874.
1881.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
ill May 3.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Thirtyfour persons present.
Dr. Geo.
A. Koenig was elected a member of the Council to fill the vacanity caused by the resignation of Dr. Chapman.
May 10.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twentyeight persons present.
The deaths of Jos.
S. Lovering a member and of Dr. James Lewis of Mohawk N. Y. a correspondent were annovmced.
May n. Mr. Thos.
Meehan YicePresident in the chair.
Twentj'nine persons present.
The following papers were presented for publication   Quercus rubra L. var Texana by S. B. Buckley. 
Quercus Durandii by S. B. Buckley. 
Rhus cotinoides by S. B. Buckley.
May 24.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twentynine persons present.
A paper entitled ' Revision of the Palaeocrinoidea Part II Family Spharoidocrinidifi including the subfamilies Platycrinidae Rhodocrinidae and Actinocrinidge by Charles Wachsmuth and Frank Springer was presented for publication.
The death of Thos.
A. Scott a member was announced.
Sexual Characters in FrUillaria atropurjurea Nuttall.
 Mr. Thomas Meehan noticed the occurrence of separate male and hermaphrodite flowers in Fritillaria atropurpurea cases of bisexuality being rare in truly liliaceous plants.
His specimens were from western Nevada and the characters now noted were exhibited in 1880  but as the plant had only been received a short time before the absence of female organs might be attributed to weakness but observation this season shows it to be a normal condition.
The jjlant produced four spikes flowering on the 15th of May.
The spikes were 15 14 13 and 11 inches high respectively and had from twelve to fourteen narrow glaucous leaves each and all of apparently equal strength.
The tallest spike had but one perfect floAver another had the lowermost perfect but with four others aboAe all purelj' staminate.
The other two had three flowers each all staminate.
These staminate flowers had antlers as large and as polleniferous as the hermaphrodite ones and the perianth seemed in every respect as perfect the only difference being in the total absence of all traces of a gynoecium.
It was evidently the normal condition of the species which by the way seems to run closely into Fritillaria pariiifiora.
Mr. Meehan said the facts were inteiesting as drawing still closer the wellknown relationship of Melanthiace'se and Liliacese.
A tendency to diclinism had hitherto been supposed to be the special characteristic of the former order although occasionally as in Asparagus there were indications of the same characteristics in Liliaceae also.
May 31.
Ther President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twentyfive members present.
A paper entitled  Observations on the Hippopotamus by Henry C. Chapman M. D. was presented for publication.
Alexander Biddle M. D. W. Norton Whitney M. D. and John G. Lea M. D. were elected members.
Thomas T. Bouve of Boston was elected a correspondent.
The following were ordered to be published  PROC.
A. N. S PHILA 1881 PL   ''m Ayvr4j if '
f PROC.
A N. S.
PHILA. PL II.
Trr PROC A N. S PHILA. I88i.
PL 111 PROC A N. S. PHILA I88i .
PL IV.
PROG.
A. N. S.
PHILA. 1881.
PL V. 24 PROC.
A. N. S. PHILA 1881.
PLVI.
PROC.
A N. S PHILA. 1881 PL VII .
A. N. S PHILA PL Vlli PROC.
A. N. S. PHILA 1881.
PL.
IX CE   px pr.th  '  ab.pl.
v g an 70 ab.pl.v' 71 PROC.
A. N. S. PHILA.. 1881.
PL X
