ON THE VALUE OF THE  NEARCTIC  AS ONE OF THE PRIMARY ZOOLOGICAL REGIONS.
BY PROFESSOR ANGELO HEILPRIX The six zoological regions laid down by Mr. Sclater and so admirably sketched out by Mr. Wallace have been so very generallaccepted b' naturalists that it maj be considered as almost presumptuous for any one to attempt at this late hour a revision of the same.
But yet the evidence concerning the position of at least one of these  the Xearctic  is in many respects so negative  indeed it might be said so directly contradictory  that a reconsideration is rendered almost imperative.
The question affecting the relationship of this region is thus stated by Walhice  ' Whether the Nearctic region should be kept separate or whether it should form part of the Pabearctic or of the Neotropical regions.
Professor Huxley and Mr. Bljth advocate the former course  Mr. Andrew Murray for mammalia and Professor Newton for birds think the latter would be more natural.
No doubt much is to be said for both views but both cannot be right  and it will be shown in the latter part of this chapter that the Nearctic region is on the whole fully as well defined as the Paloearctic by positive characters which differentiate it from both the adjacent regions.
 1 Palsearctic Ethiopian Indian Oriental of Wallace Australian Nearctic and Neotropical  AustroColurabian of Huxley.
2 Geographical Distribution of Animals vol.
1 p. 66 1876.
Professor Newton in the article Birds contained in the Encyclopedia Britannica 9th td. iii p. 751 18751 thus expresses his views in the present connection  Thus regarded simply from an ornithologist's point of view what we call the Nearctic 'region' seems to have no right to be considered one of the primary regions of the earth's surface and to be of less importance than some of the subregions of the Neotropical region.
   It is not however intended here to question the validity of the Nearctic region in a zodgeographical sense.
If that position could be successfully disputed it mutrt be done on more than ornithological grounds and a consideration of them would be out of place in this article.
It is enouh to mention that though the mammals would possibly lead to much the same conclusion as the birds do yet the lower classes of vertebrates  reptiles amphibians and fishes would most likely have a contrary tendency wliile the present writer is quite unable to guess at the result which would be atiorded by the invertebrates.
In view of the very divergent positions occupied by the naturalists above cited as to the value of the region here referred to it ma' be fairlconceded we believe and Avith due deference to the high authority of Mr. Wallace that the question of position or relationship is still an open one  and the more especially can this be considered to be the case since several of the authors do not appear to be agreed even as to the general or ijreponderating relationship of the contained mammalian fauna or that branch of the representative fauna which is usually taken to be most characteristic typical of a region. In the hope therefore of throwing some additional light on this subject the author has been constrained to make the following critical inquirj'.
The points which it has been attempted to solve are   1.
Whether the Nearctic region is entitled to be considered as an independent region by itself.
2.
If not of which region Paltearctic or Neotropical does it constitute a part.
The relative relationship of the Nearctic fauna with the faunas of the Paloearctic and Neotropical regions constitutes the first portion of the inquirj. The Nearctic mammalian fauna comprises according to Wallace about 26 families as follows  Phjllostomidae Suidae Yespertilionidse Cervidae Noctilionidse Bovidse Talpidge Muridaj Soricidse Dipodidtp Felidae Saccomyidte  Wallace op.
cit. 1 p. 57.
 In the following analyses of mammalian families genera and species the author has followed the tables furnished by Wallace in his Geographical Distribution of Animals and for two reasons  1st The circumstance that these tables have served as the basis for Mr. Wallace's own conclusions et conseq.
as the guiding data for those authors who have accepted the views of this naturalist  and 2d The difficulty of constructing new tables which in their application to all the various zoogeographical regions could claim a decided advantage over those that are here furnished.
For the North American fauna a reconsideration based upon the more recent works of Coues and Allen where the number of species is very materially reduced is given later on.
318 1882.
Canidse Mustelidse Procyonidge Ursidai Otariidge Trichechidffi Phocidai Castoridae Sciuridse Haploodontidse Cercolabidae Lagomyidse Leporidffi Didelphyidse.
Of this number onl one family  the Haploodontidee  comprising one or two species of beaverlike animals inhabiting the west coast can be said to be strictly peculiar to the region. Of the 25 nonpeculiar families 19 are also Palsearctic and of the remaining 6 5 are exclusivel Nearctic and Neotropical and 1 Noctilionidee or shorteared bats is found in the eastern hemisphere.
Comparing the Nearctic with the Neotropical fauna we find that out of the 25 nonpeculiar families 18 are also Neotropical so that the relationship between the Palaearctic and the Nearctic on one side and the Nearctic and Neotropical on the other would appear to be equally great.
But if we take the genera included in these 26 families i in all ' The Saccomyidoi or pouched rats which are also regarded as peculiar to the Nearctic region by Wallace cau scarcely be considered such since a fair proportion of the species Heteromys 6 sp.

 Oeomys  Geomyidm of some authors penetrate to a considerable distance within the Neotropical region.
The family is more properly characteristic than peculiar.
Number of Species.
Number of Species.
 Phyllostomidse Soricidse Maci'otus .
1 Sorex .
.
16 Vespertilionidse Neosorex .
1 Scotophilus .
5 Blarina .
.
7 Vespertilio .
6 Felidse Nycticejus .
1 Felis .
.
5 Lasiurus .
3 Lynx .
.
3 Synotus .
2 Canidae Antrozous .
1 Lupus .
.
6 Noctilionidse Vulpes .
.
6 Nyctinomus .
1 Mustelidse Talpidse Martes .
.
3 Condylura .
1 Mustela .
11 Scapanus .
2 Gulo .
1 Scalops .
.
3 Latax .
.
2 Urotrichus .
1 Enhydris .
1 1882.
319 we find that 35 are also Palaearctic and onlj' 21 NeotropNumber of Spec es.
Number of Species.
Taxidea 2 Muridae Mephitis 6 Reithrodon .
5 Procyonidae Procyon Bassaris Ursidae Ursus .... Otariidse Callorhinus .
Zalophus Eumatopias .
Trichechidae 3 1 3 1 1 1 Hesperomys .
Neotoma Sigmodou Arvicola Myodes .
.
.
 Fiber .... Dipodidae Jaculus Saccomyidae Dipodomys .
Perognathus 16 7 2 27 3 1 1 5 6 Trichecus 1 Thomomys .
2 Phocidae Geomys 5 Callocephalus 1 Saccomys 1 Pagomys 1 Castoridae Pagophilus .
1 Castor .... 1 Halicyon 1 Sciuridffi Phoca .... 1 Sciurus .... 18 Halichoerus .
1 Sciuropteras 4 Morunga 1 Tamias .... 4 Cystophora .
1 Spermophilus 15 Suidae Cynomys 2 Dicotyles 1 Arctomys 4 Cervidae Haploodontidae Alces .... 1 Haploodon .
2 Rangifer 2 Cercolabidse Cervus .... 6 Erethizon 2 Bovidae Lagomyidae Bison .... 1 Lagomys 1 Antilocapra .
1 Leporidae Aplocerus 1 Lepus 15 Capra .... 1 Didelphyidae Ovibos .... 1 Didelphys 2 In Wallace's table of the Palaearctic fauna Thalassarctos the polar bear is considered as a distinct genus apart from Urstis.
The Nearctic Ursidm would accordingly be Ursus 2 species and Thalassarctos 1 species.
 Vespertilio Halichoeiois Urotrichus Cystophora Sorex Alces Felis Rangifer Lynx Cervus Lupus Bison Vulpes Capra 320 1882. ical Of these 21 moreover 6 belong to the volant mammalia  the bats  a class of animals possessing special means for selfdistribution.
It will thus be seen that generically the North American mammalian fauna is much more intimately related to the EurAsiatic than to the South American.
Furthermore of the 35 genera also occurring in the Paleearctic region 21 are found nowhere else but in that region  in other words 21 out of 74 genera are peculiar to the combined Nearctic and Patearctic regions.On the contrary of the 21 Neotropical Martes Arvicola Mustela Myodes Gulo Castor Uisus Sciurus Callorhinus Sciuropterus Zalophus Tamias Trichecus Spermophilus Callocephalus Ai'ctomys Pagomys Lagomys Pagophilus Lepus.
Phoca ' Macrotus Bassaris Scotophilus Dicotyles Yespertilio Cervus Nycticejus Reithrodon Lasiurus Hesperorays Nyctinomus Fiber Felis Sciums Mustela Tamias Enhydris Lepus Mephitis Didelphys Procyon  Urotrichus Alces Lynx Eangifer Callorhinus Bison.
Zalophus Capra Trichecus Arvicola Callocephalus Myodes Pagomys.
Castor Pagophilus Spermophilus Phoca Arctomys Halichoerus Lagomys.
Cystophora Capra has an outlying representative in the Neilgherry Hills of India and likewise one  an ibexin the highlands of Abyssinia.
genera occurring in the Nearctic fauna only 11 are exclusively Neotropical.
In other words only 11 out of 14 genera are peculiar to the combined Nearctic and Neotropical regions.
 Again the 21 NeareticPalsearctic genera are represented by about 69 specific forms whereas the 11 NearcticNeotropical genera have only about 39 specific representatives.
So that whichever way considered there is a great preponderance of Palasarctic as compared to Neotropical forms in the Nearctic fauna.
As far as the evidence afforded by the mammalia is concerned therefore there is a much closer relationship shown to exist between the North American Nearctic and EurAsiatic Palaarctic faunas than between the former and the South American Neotropical.
It is thus manifest that if the Nearctic fauna is not a distinct one it should be united  if judged by its mammalian fauna alone  with the Palffiarctic rather than with the Neotropical.
But the question still remains is it a distinct fauna or is it only a lateral extension of the Palaearctic 
It has already been stated that the region possesses among 26 families of mammalia only one that is strictly peculiar to it  the Haploodontidae.
The Neotropical on the other hand has out of about 31 families 8 that are peculiar. The Australian of 22 likewise 8. The Ethiopian out of 44 9 that are peculiar.
 The only other regions that can compare with the Nearctic in the paucity of their peculiar families are the Paliarctic and the Oriental the former represented b 36 families with not a single one peculiar and the latter likewise with 36 families of which  ilacrotus Dicotyles Lasivirus Reithrodon Enhydris Hesperomys Mephitis Fiber Procyon Didelphys.
Bassaris  Cebidm Hapalidce Phyllostomidm one species in California ChincJiillidce Caviidce Bradypodidce Dasypodidce Myrmecophagidm. '
Daayurida Myrmecobud.e PerameUdm Macropodidc Phalangistidw Phascolomydie Ornithorhynchidce Echidnidm.
 Cheiromyidxs Centetida Potamogalidm Chrysoehloridm Cryptoproctuia ProtelidcB Hippopoiamida.
CamelopardidcB Orycteropodidm.
number only 3 are peculiar. But the paucity of peculiar families in the case of the Palsearctic and Oriental regions is readil explained by the circumstance that both regions are bounded along the line of their greatest development by other faunal regions with which an exchange in forms will naturally be effected.
Thus the Palasarctic region is bounded along an extent of about 140 degrees of longitude or about 9000 miles by the Ethiopian and Oriental regions.
The proportions of bounding surface to area is perhaps still greater in the case of the Oriental region.
But in the case of the Nearctic region as recognized we have no such bounding surface  in fact we are here limited for our exchanges to the narrow strip Mexico Central America uniting the two great continents  and therefore on the assumption of a distinct fauna it would be doubly difficult to assign a special explanation for the very limited number of peculiar families.
While the Nearctic and Palsearctic regions are each deficient in peculiar mammalian families yet they are eminently distinguished from their nearest faunal neighbors by certain highly characteristic families which are only rendered ionpeculiar by the circumstance that they are contained in both regions.
Such are the 1.
Talpidae Moles.
2.
Trichechidffi .
.
.
.
.
Walruses 3.
Castoridfe Beavers 4.
Lagomyidae Pikas.
And if the reindeer elks and sheep and goats be considered as constituting distinct families as is maintained by many naturalists the 5.
Rangiferidie 6.
Alcadae t. Capridee In addition to these 1 families we have also the hares Leporidse and bears Ursidse which though not exclusively restricted to those regions are by their numbers and vast distribution eminently characteristic of them.
Considering the PaljBarctic and Nearctic regions to constitute but a single faunal division that division would then be eminently'' characterized by the possession of these t9 peculiar families  TarsiidcB OaleopitJiecidce Tupaiidce.
alone and would then stand in nearly the same relation by family distinctions to the other regions as the Xeotropical Ethiopian and Australian.
The combined Nearctic and Pahearctic regions would moreover be further united to each other by the negative character afforded in the almost total absence of the Quadrnmana and Edentata orders which are abundantly represented in all the other regions but the Australian.
If now we turn to an examination of the genera peculiar to the several zodgeographical regions we find that out of a total of 74 represented in the Nearctic onl' about 26 are restricted to that region forming 35 per cent.
In the Palfearctic out of 100  35 peculiar  35 per cent.
In the Oriental out of 118  54 peculiar  46 per cent.
In the Australian out of 70  45 peculiar  64 per cent.
In the Ethiopian out of 142  90 peculiar  63 per cent.
In the Neotropical out of 131  103 peculiar  78 per cent.
We here again note a deficienc' in the case of the Nearctic and Palaearctic regions  an absence of positive distinguishing characters  a condition to be explained by the fact that a very considerable number of genera are rendered nonpeculiar just as in the case of the families by the circumstance of their being represented in both the Nearctic and Pahearctic regions.
But if we consider the two regions as forming in reality but one we would have in addition to the 26 Nearctic and the 35 Palaearctic genera already referred to 22 additional ones to be comprised in the regions as being peculiar to it viz.
  Represented by Genera.
Pa
TJrotrichus .... Lyncus .... Gulo Thalassarctos Zalophus .... Eumatopias .... 1 About 5 species of Quadrumana representatives of the genera Macacus and SemnopitJieciis enter within the confiues of Palajarctic regions.
The highest latitude in the northern hemisphere reached by this class of animals is probably the Rock of Gibraltar Lat.
36 inhabited by the Baibary ape Mticacus imius the genus is also represented in Japan.
Three or four species of Quadrumana Macacus Cynopithecus likewise occur in the islands Timor Batchian and Celebes belonging to the Australian region.
Lie species.
1 Nearctic.
1 9 3 I 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 324 1882.
Genera.
Trichechus .
Callocephalus Pagomys Pagophilus Phoca .
Halichoerus Cystopliora Alces .
Taraudus Bison .
Cuniculus Myodes Castor .
Spermophilus Arctomj's Lagomys Represented by PalSearetic species.
Nearctic.
1 1 3 1 2 1 2 1 2 1 1 1 2 2
1 2 1 1 3 1 10 15 4 4 10 1 57 45 To which may also be added Capra with 10 Palaearctic species Ovis with 10 Palsearctic and 1 Nearctic species and Arvicola with 21 Palaearctic and 27 Nearctic species genera whose representatives but barelj' pass beyond the confines of the region  making 25 in all.
We would thus have a total of about 86 peculiar genera out of 173 represented a proportion that would stand intermediate between what we find to exist in the Oriental and Australian regions and which would constitute about 50 per cent.
The region would be accordingleminentlmarked out b' positive generic characters.
Turning now to a consideration of the species which represent the peculiar genera of each region  in other words to the representative forms of the various faunas  we find that in the Nearctic region as at present constituted out of a total of about 279 species the 26 peculiar genera comprise but 60 or only 2H per cent of the entire fauna.
In the PaliBarctic of 426 species the 35 peculiar genera comprise 71  17 per cent.
In the Oriental of 505 species the 54 peculiar genera comprise 165 33 per cent.
In the Australian of 243 species the 45 peculiar genera comprise 151 62 per cent.
In the Ethiopian of 525 species the 90 peculiar genera comprise 288  55 per cent.
In the Neotropical of 634 species the 103 peculiar genera comprise 376  60 per cent.
So here again just as in the case of families and genera the Nearctic and Paltearctic regions show a very decided deficiency the specific types that ought to characterize a fauna being but xevy feebly developed.
But if we unite the two regions the negative character is developed into a positive one by the incorporation of a considerable number of species representing the 25 genera which are held in common by the two regions.
The number of species held bthe Nearctic region has been stated to be about 279 And of the Palsearctic 426 705 Less 30 species as will be seen further on held in common 30 Total for the combined region .... 675 Of this total of 675 species for the combined region we have   60 represented bjthe genera peculiar to the Nearctic region  71 represented by the genera peculiar to the Palaarctic region  153 171  18 common  153 represented by the 25 peculiar genera common to the two regions  284 or a proportion of species representing the peculiar genera of 284  675 42 per cent.
 a ratio sufficiently large to impress upon the fauna a distinctive character.
In our estimates of the Nearctic fauna we have relied upon the tables furnished bWallace.
If instead of these however we avail ourselves of the later data furnished by the various papers of Coues and Allen the result will not be materially altered.
According to the lists furnished by these authorities it would appear that the Nearctic mammalian fauna has instead of 279 species only about 210.
Two new families and three new genera of which one is peculiar are indicated.
Out of a total of T5 genera 27 are peculiar which would give a proportion 36 per cent.
very little different from that deduced from Wallace's data.
These 2t peculiar genera again are represented according to Coues' table bj about 49 species which out of the total of 210 would give 23 per cent of the entire fauna or 1 per cent over that which was found in our first estimation.
Again uniting the Paliearctic and Xearctic regions with the new data we find instead of a total of 705 species onlj636 Deducting 30 species held in common ... 30 Total 606 Of this total of 606 species for the combined regions we have  71 species represented by the genera peculiar to the Palaearctic region  49 species represented by the genera peculiar to the Nearctic region  132 species 150  18  132 represented bthe 25 genera peculiar to the two regions  252 or a proportion of species representing the peculiar genera of 252  606  42 per cent. or precisely the figure that was obtained from Wallace's tables.
The following species of North American mammalia are generally considered to be identical with Palaearctic forms or at any rate to have such close EurAsiatic representatives as to be but doubtfully distinguishable from them  Evotomys Arvicola rutilus Putorius erminea Myodes Obensis 
Putorius vison Cuniculus torquatus Felis Canadensis  ZapodidcB Geomyidce.
2 Ochetodon Hesperomys pars Evotomys Arvicola pars Criceiodipus Perognathus pars.
 Instead of the 60 before recorded correspondiug to the general reduction in the number of species.
 98 Palaearctic  53 Nearctic.
Lepus timidus Canis occiden talis Castor fiber Yulpes vulgaris Tamias Asiaticus Ursus Americanus Spermophilus empetra et U. horribilis 
Arctom3's pruinosus Phoca vitulina 
Urotrichiis Gibbsi C'stophora cristata Cervus Canadensis Callorhinus uvsiniis.
Alee malchis Zalopbus Gillespii Tarandus rangifer Triehecus rosmarus Gulo luscus Pagophilus Groenlandicus 
Mustela Americana Halichoerus sp.
Putorius vulgaris.
And perhaps a little less certain Ovis montana.
Bison Americanus.
From the preceding facts it may be considered as shown 1st that by family generic and specific characters as far as the mammalia are concerned the Nearctic and Palaearctic faunas taken collectively are more clearly defined from any or all of the other regions than eithA the Xearctic or Palsearctic taken individually  and 2d that by the communit' of family generic and specific characters the Nearctic region is indisputably united to the Palaearctic of which it only forms a lateral extension.
Evidence Afforded by the Batrachia and Reptilia.
If we now turn to the evidence afforded by the batrachians and reptiles we will find the conclusions drawn from the study of the mammals to be strikingly confirmed. Batrachia Urodela.
The following families are enumerated in the Xearctic fauna as usually recognized   In the following zoogeographical considerations the Sonoran subregion of Prof.
Cope including  parts of Nevada New Mexico Arizona and Sonora in Mexico Bulletin U. S. National Museum i p. 68 1875 is taken to represent a portion of the Neotropical region and for reasons that will be stated further on.
To this section detached from the Nearctic region will probably have to be added the peninsula of Lower California the  Lower Californian subregion of Cope and portions of California and Texas.
328 188 Peculiar to the Nearctic.
Palaeaictic.
Peculiar to the Nearctic.
Palsearctic.
Palsearctic.
Sirenidse .... Siren 1 species.
Pseudobranchus 1 sp.
Proteidae .... Menobranchus 2 sp.
Palsearctic Proteus. Amphiumidae Amphiuma 1 sp.
Muraenopsis 1 sp.
Menopomidse Menopoma 2 sp.
Palsearctic Sieboldia.'
Amblstomidje .
Ambl3stoma. Dicamptodon 1 sp.
Palsearctic Onichodactylus Ranodon.'
PlethodoBtidse .
.
.
Neotropical .
.
Palsearctic.
78 genera with about 22 species.
The genus Spelerjyes with about 8 species descends beyond the Nearctic boundary into northern South America  it is also represented by a solitary species in southern Europe.
Desmognathidae ....
Peculiar to the Nearctic.
Desmognathus 3 sp.
Pleurodelidae ....... Palaearctic.
Diemictj'lus 2 sp.
We have here therefore 8 families represented 5 of which are also Palaearctic and only one Neotropical.
The 3 families restricted to the Nearctic region are represented by onl 7 species.
If it be urged that the presence of these 3 peculiar but very narrowly circumscribed families is sufficient to characterize the region in which they occur and consequently to render it distinct it may for similar reasons and with almost equal force be urged that the eastern extremity of the EurAsiatic region  China Japan  should be detached from the I'est of the Palaearctic by virtue of its containing representatives of two equall' characteristic families the Menopomidae and Amblystomidae found nowhere else in the region.
 About 18 species all of which with one or two exceptions are found outside of the Sonoran subrejion.
Batraohia Anoura.
Bufonidae Nearly cosmopolitan.
Bufo.
Engystomidje .
.
.
Tropical Old and New World.
Engystoma 1 species.
Hylidffi .
.
Essentiall tropical Old and New World.
.
Acris 1 sp.
Chorophilus 4 sp.
Hyla about 12 species several of which occur in the Souoran region or along the Neotropical boundary.
Scaphiopidae Patearctic.
Spea.
Scapliiopus.
CystignathidiB .
.
.
Neotropical .
.
Australian.
2 species both in the Sonoran subregion.
Ranidfe Essentially Old World.
Rana 8 sp.
The above data will show that the anourous or tailless batrachians scarcely afford any positive indications as to the zoogeographical position of the region in which they occur.
Yet in several respects there is a very decided leaning toward the Palffiarctic.
Thus it agrees with the Palaarctic in the paucity of its Bufonic element the genus Bufo which comprises about 80 species having only about 45 Nearctic specific representatives if we exclude the 67 species found in the Sonoran districts and about an equal number in the Palrearctic region.
Again in the case of the Ranidse an eminently Old World family of batrachians we have just as in the Palsearctic region only one generic iepresentative  Rana  which with about 56 species but barely penetrates within the Neotropical region.
Of about 108 species comprised by the genus 89 belong to the Nearctic fauna and about an equal number 1011 to the Palsearctic' In addition to this general similarity existing between the Nearctic and Palsearctic faunas as exemplified by the Ranidae we have the further one that at least one species of the genus Rana is common to both regions  and another Palsearctic species ' Boulenger ' Catalogue of the Batrachia Salientia of the British Museum 2d ed. 1883.
 Rana temporaria  R. sylvatica .
has a closely related Xearctic representative. On the other hand in the peculiarly Neotropical or tropical in general groups of anourous batrachians the Xearctic province is remarkably deficient.
Thus of the Engystomidee we have but a solitary representative Engyatoma Carolinense.
Of the Cystignathidae which comprises upwards of 130 Neotropical forms we have only twoXearctic species and both of these are found just bejond the confines of the region  southern Florida and along the lower Rio Grande.
There is a somewhat greater development of the genus Hyla of the Hylidse than might have been looked for but the genus while it may have but one really good species is at least represented b' several ver' well marked varieties variouslj considered to be distinct species also in the PaliBarctic region.
Ophidia The Xearctic serpents are comprised in 4 or 5 families  Crntalidse with about 19 species Golubridae Elapidae Boidff and Lichanuridse.
The first of these being an essentially American and Oriental 
group a few species penetrating within the Palcijarctic region can scarcely carry much weight in the matter of zoogeographical classification.
The Elapidse and Boidse with 3 and 2 species respectively are tropicopolitan and their Xorth American representatives but barely enter the Xearctic region.
The two species of the genus Charina Boidse are moreover found in that section of the United States  Ievada and Lower California  which in our estimation ought to be separated from the Xearctic region.
This is likewise the case with the 3 species of Lichanura Lower California which constitute the family Lichanuridae.
The onl' and most important family that remains to be specially considered is that of the Coluhridae.
Of this cosmopolitan family we have about 107 Xearctic species  of this number about 30 belong to genera almost exclusiveh' restricted to the Sonoran and Californian regicms.
Of the remaining 77 a very large proportion more tlian onehalf belong to essentially Old Wo7dd genera  Coluher Tropidonotus Eutaenia and Coryphodon Bascanion  and principally to such as have no South American representatives as Coluber and Tropidonotus  Rana esculenta in R. halecina.
 Lithodytes Ricordii and Epirhexis longipea.
 The range of Tropidonotus extends to Guatemala.
Lacertilia.
The following are tlie lacertilian families occurring in the Nearctic region as recognized   Amphisbaenidje ....
Almost cosmopolitan.
1 species in the Floi'ida subregion.
AnnioUidse ....
Peculiar to the Nearctic 
1 sp.
in California.
ScinciclE Cosmopolitan.
14 species 13 of which belong to the Old World genus Eumeces or Plesliodon.

Lacertidae Old World.
Xantusia 1 sp.
on the Pacific coast.
Zonuridoe Anguidse jyars .... Old World.
Opheosaurus 1 sp.
Teidse Essentially Neotropical.
A South American family of about 12 genexa and To species represented in the Nearctic region by 7 species all of which with one or two exceptions are confined to the Sonoran and Californian provinces.
Gerrhonotidffi Neotropical.
Y sp. confined to the Sonoran Californian and Pacific subregions and Western Texas.
Helodermidffi.
1 sp. confined to the Sonoran subregion.
Iguanidse Neotropical.
An essentially Neotropical family with about 50 genera and 150 species.
Represented in the Nearctic region by about 40 species all of which with two or three exceptions are confined to the Sonoran and Californian regions or but just pass beyond the limits of these.
Anolidae  .
Neotropical.
An essentially Neotropical familj with upwards of 70 species and with onl 1 or 2 Nearctic representatives.
S2 Geckoticlffi Essentially tropical.
But sparing
represented in eitlier the Palaearctic or Xearctic regions  the 5 Nearctic species being all restricted to the Sonoran and Lower Californian subregions and the extremity of the peninsula of Florida.
An analysis of the above table shows two facts very distinctl'  1.
That the South American Neotropical forms of lacertilians  Teidae Iguanidae Anolidee  stop almost immediately on the borders of the Xearctic region sending but an extremely limited number of representatives bej'ond the Sonoran subregion  and 2.
The very great paucity of lacertilian forms in general throughout the great mass of the North American continent.
Excluding the Sonoran and Californian provinces and the immediate borderline of the region there would appear to be in all hut about 20 species of Nearctic saurians IS of which belong to the Old World genus Eumeces
The most widely diffused form of North American Eumeces moreover is a Palisarctic species  A further relationship with the Palffiarctic fauna is maintained hy Opheosaurus the onl New World representative of the  glass snakes.
Chelonia.
The special leaning of the Nearctic fauna to that of the Old World is as clearly indicated by the chelonians as by any of the other groups of animals that have thus far been considered.
Of the 7 nonmarine families represented 2 3  Trionychidse 3Ialaclemmydae Cistudinidse  are distinctively Old World groups and two of the others Emydidse and Testudinidae are essentially so.
One family the Cinosternidae is peculiar to the North American continent.
The Chelydridae have one generic representative in the Palaearctic region China  Platy sternum be considered as by Agassiz to belong to that family.  Uumeces fasciatus.
Japan.
 TrionycMdcB Chelydridce Cinostcrnidm Emydidoe Malaclemmydce Cistudin idcB TestudinidcB.
 Constituted the type of a distinct family Platysternidm by Gray  Supplement to the Catalogue of Shield Reptiles p. 69 1870.
Faunal characters defining the Sonoran and Lower Californian subregions of Prof.
Cope as distinct from the Near otic region projjer and as a portion of the Neotropical.
1.
Of the 8 families of Nearctic socalled urodele batrachians only 2 are represented in this portion of the continent  Amblystomidse and Plethodontidae  and each of these only by one or two species.
Out of a total of about 54 species therefore this region has only about 3 
2.
More than onehalf of all the Nearctic Bufonidse are found in this region  this being the headquarters of that genus J5b in the Regnura Xearcticum.
Of about 20 Nearctic representatives of the Hylidse we have here but 3  and likewise only one or two of the Ranidee.
The Sonoran and Lower Californian tailless batrachian fauna is thus shown to be distinct by both positive and negative characters from that of the Nearctic in general.
3.
The serpent fauna comprises 22 genera of which 1011 are peculiar II out of the 13 species and subspecies of Nearctic rattlesnake  Crotalus are found here and 7 of these nowhere else.
Coluber is not represented.
4.
Of about 55 species of lacertilians about 46 belong to the Neotropical families Iguanidae Teidx and Gerrhonotidae. and 4 to the tropical Geckotidse.
11 out of the 20 genera represented are not found in any other portion of the Nearctic realm or at any rate at no distantly removed part. 5.
Only 45 species of nonmarine Testudinata are recorded 2 of which Cinosterna 'are of Mexican type.
Conclusion.
In conclusion it may be briefl3 stated that by the community of its mammalian batrachian and reptilian characters the Nearctic fauna excluding therefrom the local faunas of the Sonoran and ' Cope Bull.
U. S. National Museum i p. 74 1875.
' Gyal'piutn Chionactis Sonora RhinocMlus Chilopoma Trimorphodon Hypsiglena Phimothyra Chilomeniscus Lichanura and Charina one species of the last passes into the adjoining Pacific subregion.
 Hcloderma Sauromalus Uma Coleonyx Verticaria Diplodactylus Cyclura Dipsosaurus GalUsaurus Uta and Phyllodactylus.
 Up to the time of the publication of Prof.
Cope's  Check List 1875.
Lower Californian snbregions ivbieli are KeotropicaP is shown to be of a distinctive
Old World type and to be indissolublj linked to the Palaearctic of which it forms only a lateral extension.
The Palsearctic Old World affinities are further maintained in the land and freshwater mollusca and not onlbj' a considerable number of representative identical specific tjpes common to both regions circumpolar subboreal and otherwise but by the presence and extensive development in most cases  of the characteristic genera Physa Planorbis Limnaea Paludina Vivipara Valvata and Bythinella forms not at all or but very sparingly represented in the jSeotropical realm. The Lepidoptera among insects carry equall' strong evidence in this direction for as Wallace justly remarks while the Xearctic fauna embraces a number of distinct types and the Neotropical element is sufficiently well represented in the southern United States  still we must acknowledge that if we formed our conclusions from the butterflies alone we could hardly separate the Nearetic from the Palaearctic region.
 ' It is very probable that portions of California Texas and Florida will have to be relegated to the Neotropical realm.
2 The very great development of the StrepomatidcB or New World melanians in the waters of the Nearetic region might be urged as a claim for recognizing the independence of this region.
But for this reason alone an equal claim might be set up for considering the eastern and western United States as constituting two distinct realms since this group of mollusks is pretty effectually limited in its distribution by the 3Iississippi River none or but very few of the fonns passing west of the river except in the region of its upper course. '
Geog.
Distr.
of Animals ii p. 123.
 It is proposed to designate the combined Nearetic as restricted and Palgearctic regions as the Triarctic from the limitation of its fauna to the three continents bordering on the Arctic Sea.
Under this acceptation the Nearetic as hitherto recognized completely disappears and the Sonorau and Lower Californian subregions i to which must also be added parts of California Texas and Florida of the former Nearetic become a portion of the Neotropical realm.
THE GENESIS OF THE CRYSTALLINE IRONORES.
BY ALEXIS A. JULIEN.
In an age which admits its special indebtedness for material advancement to the industries connected with the manufacture of iron and in a countr' in which these industries have been so vastly developed as in this the question of the origin of that metal has long possessed and must alwas retain a high degree of interest.
So far as relates to the limonites turgites and bogores the question has met with a satisfactory' answer in the theory of the concentration of these ores by the percolation of organic acids as fully presented in the writings of Bischoff Hunt and others  especially as the process can be actually observed and studied in progress in the lakes marshes and bogs of the present day.
But the mode of genesis of the crj'staliine ores  hematites magnetites raenaccanites and their mixtures  enveloped partly in the sedimentary strata and chieflv in the still more ancient crystalline rocks of archsean age can be only inferred from analogies.
Nor can the problem be considered as solved by any or all of the numerous theories which have so far been advanced.
These theories may be naturally divided into two classes as they may refer the ironores enclosed in the subterranean strata to an extraneous or to an indigenous origin.
A.
Theories of Extraneous Origin.
To begin with the former we have 1.
Meteoric fall.
Tliis startling theory' has been suggested to account for the enormous mass of martitic specular ironore claimed to be the most extensive known single deposit of ironore on the continent that of the Cerro de Mercado two miles from Durango Mexico. '
Cerro de Mercado is a mountain one mile long onethird of a mile wide and from 400 to iOO feet in height.
The oresurface of the mountain aggregates over 10000000 square feet  but there are indications that the ore is not all above ground and the engineer's report declares it to be an enormous aerolite half imbedded in the level plain on which it lies.
Such a view is sufficiently controverted by the miueralogical constitutiou of the mass and its structure  immense veins of specular ironore standing nearly vertical.
 2.
Eruption as dykes.
According to this genetic view the crj'stalline ironores have been extruded from the interior in a pasty condition like a lava through fissures in the superficial strata.2 This theory has been recently further developed in reference to the banded jasper ironores of Michigan and it has been advanced that the banding and lamination of these ores are similar in character and origin to those strongly marked in rhjolytes furnace slags etc. The mineralogical constitution and infusibility of these ores tlieir distinctly sedimentary lamination etc. clearly testify to the unsoundness of these h3potheses.
3.
Suhlimation into fissures.
The inconsiderable crusts of specular oxide which have been observed in the vicinity of volcanoes such as Vesuvius have certainly no relation to the enormous bedded masses distributed throughout the world at a distance from volcanic centres.
B.
Theories of Indigenous Origin.
The theories of this class differ in ascribing the origin of ironores to either chemical or mechanical agencies.
Nine chemical theories have been proposed.
4.
Concentration from ferriferous rocks or lean ores by the solution and removal of the predominant constituent e. g. silica by means of thermal solutions.
Indeed it has been shown that a concentration in a similar way of the ferriferous constituent in tlie lower carboniferous limestone and dolomites of the Mississippi basin through the removal of the more soluble calcium carbonate by carbonated waters has apparently produced extensive deposits of limonite in loco originali.
But there is no evidence ' B. Silliman Am.
Jour.
Sci. 1882 iii xxiv 375  and J. Birkinbine Chicago Mill.
Jour. 1883 ii No.
4 p. 184.
 J. D. Whitney The Metallic Wealth of the U. S. p. 433.
3 M. E. Wadsworth Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist. 1880 xx 470  and Am.
Jour.
Sci. 1881 iii xxii 403.
 J. D. Dana Am.
Jour.
Sci. 1881 iii xxii 320 402  J. S. Newberry Sch.
of Mines Quarterly Nov. 1880. '
J. P. Lesley Report on Brown Hematite Deposits of Nittany Valley Pa. R. Pumpelly Geol.
Surv.
Mo. Prelim.
Rep. on Ironores 1872 8 et seq.
of the relation of any of the crystalline ironores enclosed in sediments of plainly submarine origin with any such subaerial process.
Even were the theory satisfactory in regard to the pure ores the essential question remains unanswered viz. the genesis ofthe original ' ferriferous rocks or lean ores themselves.
5.
Saturation of porous strata e. g. of sandstone by infiltrating solutions canying iron oxide.
 This theory however applicable to certain rockmasses rich in hvdrated ferric oxides can account neither for the concentration of the huge and pure bodies of the true ores nor for the alternation of siliceous and ferriferous laminae and layers in the lean ores.
C.
Infiltration into subterranean chambers and channels depositing pipeores and limonites in widened crevices and joints of the more recent limestones or other sedimentary rocks or in cavities overlying impervious strata. The lenticular form laminated structure intercalation of the material of the matrix enclosure of the orebodies in the beddingplanes and other facts markedly distinguish the crystalline ores from the limonites formed by such a process 7Decomposition of pyrite and other ferruginous minerals enclosed in decaying schists and transfer of the ironoxide in solution as ferrous sulphate. The precipitation of the ironoxide has been sometimes attributed to simple oxidation more usually to the production of ferrous carbonate by reaction between the ferrous sulphate and the calcium carbonate of the limestone afterwards converted into limonite boxidation and hydration. This theory has had only local application even to the limonites and its connection with the crystalline ores is rendered improbable by the absence of associated limestones or if present of evidences of their erosion etc.
8.
Derivation from original deepsea deposits of hydrous ferric oxide or of ferrous carbonate dehydrated b' subsequent heat and deoxidized by hydrogen. Bv a modification of this theory the jasperores have been connected with the ferruginous and mangan' Emmons Nat.
Hist.
K. Y. iv 94.
F. Prime Jr. Am.
Jour.
Sci. 1875 ill ix 43. '
T. S. Hunt Nat.
Ac.
Sci. Nov. 1874.   G. BischofT Chem.
and Phys.
Geol. 1 236  F. Prime Jr. loc.
cit.
 W. B. Rogers Geol.
Penn. 1868 ii Pt.
ii 722 729.
 J. P. Lesley The Iron Master's Guide p. 374. iferous nodules which have been dredged from the surfacelayer of the deepsea ooze of our present oceanbottoms. All the evidence so far gathered however shows no correspondence between the phenomena the ferriferous contents of the ooze consisting of irregular crusts and nodules never continuous nor interlaminated with silica.
On the other hand there is abundant evidence that the strata associated with the crjstalline ironores are mostl shallowwater or shoredeposits in large part congiomeritic.
9.
Deposit from springs by oxidation and precipitation from solutions of ferrous carbonate on exposure to the air at their issue.
 Such deposits it is admitted are local and limited and the theory can have no bearing on the ordiuarj' widespread crystalline ores.
10.
Alteration of diffused ferric oxide disseminated through sediments into ferrous carbonate in presence of vegetable matter and its accumulation in particular layers b' processes of filtration and segregation.
3 The vague processes thus invoked to account for the accumulation of ores are not accepted as satisfactory even for the carbonates of the coal measures lying in definite planes.
Nor do the sheets and beds of crystalline ores iisuall show the irregular characteristics which may be attributed to processes of segregation.
11.
Iletamorphim of ancient bogores.
The reference of the crystalline ironores to this origin has been thus stated by Dr. Hunt   I see no reason for assigning any other than a sedimentar origin to the magnetic and specular ironores of the crystalline schists  nor do I conceive that the conditions under which the'' were deposited differed essentially from those which at the present day give rise to beds of limonite and ochre.
 Again he observes  The organic matters reduce the peroxide of iron to a soluble protoxide and remove it from the soil to be afterwards deposited in the forms of ironochre and ironores which by subsequent alteration become hard cr'stalline and insoluble.
 1 W. O. Crosby Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist. 1879 xx 168 2 G. Bischoff Chem and Phys.
Geol. i 155157 166167.
3 W. B Rogers Geol.
Penn. 1868 it Pt.
ii 737. t  Letter of Dr. T. S. Hunt 1858 quoted in Lesley's Iron Master's Guide p. 365.
See also Vanuxem Nat.
Hist.
N. Y. Geol. 3d District p. 267.
 T. 8.
Hunt Chem.
and Geol.
Essays 22.
Le Conte also states  Therefore we conclude that both 
oii'and always ironore is and has been accumulated by organic agency.'
Prof. J.
D Dana remarkscoucerning the Upper Silurian deposits  The beds of argillaceous ironore    could not have been formed in an open sea.
for clayey iron deposits do not accumulate under such circumstances.
They are proof of extensive marshes and therefore of land near the sealevel.
The fragments of erinoids and shells found in these beds are evidence that they were in part at least saltwater marshes and that the tides sometimes reached them.
In reference to the Laurentian deposits he states   Limestone strata occurred among the alternations and argillaceous ironores though vastl more extensive.
   The argillaceous ironore has become the bright hematite or magnetite and it is banded by or alternates with schist and quartz etc. which were once accompanj'ing clayand sandlayers.
Dr. Kitchell long ago opposed the theoryof the igneous or eruptive origin of the magnetic ironores of New Jersey maintaining that they  were of sedimentary origin and had been deposited just as the gneiss and crystalline limestone had.''
With this vieAv Prof. Cook coincides in the following statement  The magnetic ironores of this State have originated from chemical or mechanical deposits just as our hematites and bog ironores do now.
 In opposition to this theory in its reference to subaerial bogs or marshes it must be considered that the enclosing and associated strata bear universal testimon both in their contents and the form of their superficies to their submarine mode of deposit.
On the other hand if the bogore theory were applicable to these ores every orebed would impla terrestrial plane for the reception of the subaerial bog deposit i. e for every orelens a corresponding elevation above the sealevel and ensuing subsidence of the entire underlying stratum.
On the contrarv no evidence has been shown in the archaean strata of any subaerial surface  all appear to be submarine sediments and that still more ancient rocky terrane which formed the coast whose debris poor in iron ' J.
Le Conte Elements of Geology 37.3.
 J. D. Dana Manual of Geol. p. 231 and ISr.
 W. Kitchell Geol.
Surv.
X. J. 2d Rep. 1855 155 229 etc.
 and 3d Rep. 185G.
 G. H. Cook Geol.
of N. J. 16 i 61. was deposited or strewn over the ancient Laurentian sea and upon whose surface bogdeposits maj'have rested seems to have been entirely buried up beneath later sediments.
Again the strongly marked lenticular form and laminated structure of all deposits of crystalline ironores  and even of the numerous smaller lenses parallel or overlapping which make up the large deposits  are unmistakably characteristic of marine accumulation Neptune's own royal stamp.
A bogore deposit is almost always irregular in outline concretionary and cavernous in structure and commonlv characterized by concentration in pockets and groups of isolated lumps.
One can rarely fancy any traces of such peculiarities in the compact S3mmetrical lenses which make up ordinary deposits of magnetite.
The complete dehydration and partial deoxidation of the hydrated ironoxide of a bogore necessary for its conversion into a magnetite must have produced an enormous contraction  but of this there is rarely any evidence such as might be expected in the disturbance of the lamination of the ore and of the stratification of the surrounding rock.
It is of common occurrence that a bed of crystalline ironore overlies a bed of limestone in immediate contact e. g. at the BaldwinForsyth mine Hull Canada and yet the surface of the latter is perfectl' plane presenting no trace of the pitting and erosion to which so soluble a material would have been subjected by the action of the organic acids supposed to have been concerned in the concentration of the ore in a bog.
Although graphite does often occur in intermixture with the crystalline ores its general absence seems to prove that it cannot be chiefly derived from the organic matter 1 to 36 per cent.
contained in all limonites but rather it may be from the algaj and marine plants sometimes finding their growth and entombment in the sands even of ironoxide in shallow water.
To the deoxidation produced in the decomposition of the remains of such plants the content of sulphur in many ironores ma' be due.
12.
TJie metamor'phism of ancient lakedeposits of limonite passing into hematite corresponding to the oolitic  fossil ore  of the Clinton group of the Upper Silurian to the  mustard seed  ore described by Sjiirmalm which is deposited near the banks of ' B.
Von Cotta Ore Deposits 249 284. the present Swedish lakes' etc.
This  Lake ore  theory seems to be valid for a large luimher of huge deposits of the crystalline ores and also satisfactorily accounts for the abundant presence of apatite in many orebeds.
It may be fittingly applied therefore in explanation of the phenomena seen in those deposits which contain a notable amount of calcium phosphate  most of those which consist of hematite or of magnetite passing into or occasionall' enclosing hematite viz. in this country those of Cerro de Mercado of Southern Utah of Port Henry N. Y. etc.
 and the beds of magnetite which present the botiyoidal and concretionary aspect and radiated structure of limonite e. g. in Southern Utali. On the other hand the poverty or almost entire absence of phosphorus and sulphur in certain orebeds and the extreme abundance of titanic acid free alumina garnet olivine etc. in others demand some other explanation.
Two mechanical theories are yet to be considered.
13.
Violent abrasion and transport.
This theory may be best stated in the words of its author  That the azoic period was one of longcontinued and violent action cannot be doubted and while the deposition of the stratified beds was going on volcanic agencies combined with powerful currents may have abraded and swept away portions of the erupted ferriferous masses rearranging their particles and depositing them again in the depressions of the strata.'
This theory of Whitney was supplementarj to his main theory of volcanic eruption of the ferriferous masses rich in native iron.
But to this Leslc' properly objects that such secondary deposits would be conglomeritic and also contain metallic iron.
14.
Concentration and metamorphism of ironsands.
The work of the ocean as a grand abrading agent and in the transport of the abraded detritus has been largely studied and described by many authors  but less attention has been paid to the action which goes on during the shorter or longer period of transport 1 B.
Von Cotta Ore Deposits 461  The Geologist 1863 36.
 Dr. J. S. Newberry The Genesis of Our Iron Ores'' Sch.
of Mines Quarterly Nov. 1880 and On the Genesis of Crystalline IronOres Trans.
N. Y. Acad.
Sci. vol.
ii Oct. 23 1882 ' J. S. Newberry loc.
cit. 12.
 J. D. Whitney Met.
Wealth of the U. S. 434. of the detritus in sorting out the various constituents in reference to specific gravity.
Almost every sheltered bay and cove afford instances not onl of local deposits peculiar as to size e.r. gravels sands or fine silt but concentrated gatherings of the grains of certain minerals Avhose separation has been due to the relation of their specific gravity and form to the force of the surf or of local currents.
The tertiary sands which border our Atlantic coast present everywhere examples of this continuous and delicate jigging action of the ocean in the gathering together  now of black ironsands either magnetic or titaniferous now of red garnetsands often of the two intermingled and still more abundantly deposits of pure white quartzsand.
The ironsands become very prominent in certain localities e.
gf. in this country at Killingsworth on the Connecticut shore of Long Island Sound on the north shore of the lower St. Lawrence on the coasts of California and the shores of Lake Huron and Lake Erie Oregon etc. and abroad along the coast of Great Britain the shores of the Baltic and Mediterranean New Zealand Madagascar and Hindostan.
Special attention has been given to the deposits of the lower St. Lawrence which lie about three metres above highwater mark and comprise lajers of black ironsand often nearly pure from 1'5 to 15 centimetres in thickness.
''An inspection of tlie ironsands from the various localities above mentioned shows that they all contain besides the ores of iron a small proportion of red garnet and more or less of fine siliceous sand.
The latter of the two substances it is possible to remove almost entirely b careful washing of the crude ore.' The frequent purity of these sands may be inferred from the following determinations by Dr. Hunt of their content of quartz and ailiceoas residue Riviere du Loup in Chaudiere Valley 480 per cent.
Moisie2 592  Quogue.
Long Isd. X. Y.
quartz and red garnet HOO  Li other parts of the world espcciallwhere volcmic or crystalline rocks compose the coastline other minerals such as olivine 1 Dr. T. S. Hunt Rep. Prog.
Geol.
Can. 1805 69 261269 also Canad.
Nat. 1872 vi 79.
2 The washed ironsand contains 070 per cent of sulphur and 0007 per cent of phosphorus.
in the Sandwich Islands hornblende augite volcanic glass etc.
on the Mediterranean often constitute the sands along the shores.
Beachsands where noncalcareous consist chiefly of the following minerals whichare arranged in the order of their specific gravities  S. G. Quartz and chert .... 2'5  28 Olivine 33 35 Garnet 31  43 Ghromite 43 46 Menaccanite ...... 45  5' Magnetite .
.
.
.
.
.
5'  51 It is a significant fact that in the mctamorphic crystalline rocks of our continent from Canada to Alabama we find the same minerals concentrated also in rockform viz.
 Quartziie siliceous schist jasper etc.
 common everywhere.
Chrysolite or dunite.
Largely converted into serpentine etc.
 Canada Michigan North Carolina Georgia Alabama etc.
Garnefile or garnetrock.
Sometimes made up of manganesegarnet  Canada New York North Carolina etc.
 in close association with magnetite at Franklin and near Andover N. J. in Grenville Canada etc.
Doubtless in some cases tlic origin of this mineral as well as of olivine especially if crystallized must be assigned to indigenous development in the course of metamorphisra.
But at the Buckhorn Mine Harnett County N. C my own examination of the section U metres in height confirms the statement of Prof. Kerr who notes the following series from above downward  Specular ore 11 metres.
Manganesian ore. Slaty manganesegarnet.
Feldspathic gneiss.
Manganesegarnet.
Gneiss. '
In regard to pyrite its ready decomposition has usually prevented its concentration in sands.
As to hematite its foliated texture seems to have resulted both in its wide transport and distribution resisting concentration and in its after conversion into hydrated peroxide.
 Geol.
N. C 1875 i 222.
Here the garnet certainly occurs in ancient sedimentary layers whose partial decomposition has saturated the ore with manganese oxide  while the small admixture of magnetite frequentlj dispersed through the hematite points to the original sediment of ironsand.
Chromite Massachusetts Pennsylvania.
North Carolina etc.
Menaccanite  Canada New York New Jersey Pennsylvania etc.
Ilagnetite  common everywhere.
Compound varieties also occur in abundance which correspond closely to the mixtures of the same minerals in the sands along the coast viz.
 Magnetic quartzite martitic and hematitic jasperschists etc.
 common everywhere.
Magnetitic garnetite also hematitic and manganesian  Buckhorn Mine N. C. Chromitic dunite  Canada North Carolina Alabama etc.
Chrysolitic menaccanite with magnetite  Cumberland R. I.i Chrysolitic magnetite O'Ncil Mine Monroe Orange County N. Y. Garnetiferous magnetite mines in Saratoga and Washington Counties N. Y. etc.
Similar allied rocks occur abundantly in foreign countries dunite and clnysolitic rocks in Europe New Zealand etc.
 chrysolitic magnetite at Taberg Sweden f magnetite and menaccanite in many localities.
Garnet together with hornblende augite cassiterite apatite etc. has been observed in admixture with the magnetites of many foreign deposits e. g. of the Thorbjornsbo mine at Areudal Sweden of Traversella in Piedmont of Berggieshiibel in Saxony  of Schmiedeberg in Silesia etc.
F. Wohler relates  We spent a day in the large ironmines of Langbanshytta.
The gangue of the fine magnetic ironore is frequently brown 1 M. E. Wadsworth Bull.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool. 1881 vii 183.
J. D. Dana Am.
Jour.
Sci  1881 iii xxii 152.
 A. Sjoren Neues Jahrb.
fiir Min. 1876 434. garnet which is found in large quantities at the mouth of the mine and often serves as flux for the reduction of the ore. As the rockstrata associated with all these varieties are undoubtedh of marine origin and indicate deposition in shallow water it is natural to infer their correspondence in origin in many cases with the unconsolidated shoredeposits of the present day.
In a recent search through the scientific literature of the subject for any similar view the following statement was found concerning the crj'stalline ironores of Canada in which this theory has been with some reserve associated with the bogore theory   It seems possible that in some cases beds maj' have been formed by the accumulation of ironsands just as the' are forming in the Gulf of St. Lawrence today the material being derived from the disintegration of preexisting crystalline rocks.
Such beds we should expect to contain not only magnetite but ilmenite and it is well known that in many cases ores on being pulverized may be more or less completel separated into a magnetic portion containing little or no titanic acid and a nonmagnetic portion consisting essentially of ilmenite.
It seems however probable that in general their origin has been similar to that of the modern bogand lakeores.
Deposits of magnetite as a rule do not continue of uniform thickness for any great distance like the enclosing rocks and this is just what might be expected if we suppose them to have originally occurred as bogor lakeores which accumulated in local hollows or depressions.
 The thinly laminated martitic and hematitic jasperschists of the Huronian age always remarkably free from both sulphur and calciumphosphate at once present themselves for explanation.
Prof. Dana in a criticism on other views has attributed the origin of these ironores to  metamorphism from original marshmade beds.
More probabl in my opinion the conditions consisted of a shore of some quartzose rock rich in magnetite whose debris the waves and currents strewed over the seabottom alternately Avith thin sheets of quartzgranules and magnetitecrystals partially concentrating the one or the other material in numerous heaps or thicker layers.
In the progress of the metamorphism and contortion ' F. Wohler Early Recollections of a Chemist Am.
Chem. 1875 vi 131. 
B.
.J.
Harrinjjton Geol.
Surv.
Canada Rep.
Prog. 18731871 195.
' Am.
Jour Sci. 1881 fiii xxii 403. to which the la'ers were subjected their compact and lenticular forms were further developed the magnetic oxide was farther oxidized partially as raartite or completely as specular ore as already suggested by Brooks Credner aid others and assumed at points where the contortion and pressure became intense the micaceous structure and brilliant lustre of micaceous ironore by a process similar to that which produces 'slickensides.
The concentration of nearly pure magnetite in the deposits enclosed in the Lower Laurentian strata of Canada and the Adirondacks and of titaniferous magnetite or menaccanite in the huge orebeds associated with the anorthosites of the Upper Laurentian in both regions point unmistakably to mechanical separation of ferriferous sediments from different terranes  i. e. in the one case from the magnetitic gneiss in the other from the traps and anorthosites rich in menaccanite.
An examination of thin sections of diabase from dykes cutting pure magnetites in Essex County N. Y. showed this rock to be rich in menaccanite and a possible source of such sediments.
No concentration of titanic acid has ever been found in limonites or bogores.
These facts seem significant of the insufficiency of any chemical theory to account for the origin of all the ironores.
In conclusion it may be inferred that the mode of genesis of a bed of magnetic ironore may be determined with some probability by the following diagnosis.
When the ore retains structural characteristics allied to those of limonite or encloses masses of hematite or contains a notable amount of calciumphosphate a chemicoorganic origin is probably indicated.
When the ore is exceptionally free from phosphorus or is rich in titanic or chromic acid or is closely associated or mixed with granular garnet or olivine a mechanical origin may be inferred The following annual reports were I'ead and referred to the Publication Committee REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY.
The Recording Secretary' respectfully reports that during the year ending NoA 30 1882 fifteen members and six correspondents have been elected.
The Council has endeavored to recommend for election as correspondent those only who deserve such recognition of their scientific standing or who as collectors and contributors may confer material benefit on the societ'.
Resignations of membership have been received from Ferris W. Price T. L. Buckingham T. Miles H. W. Stelwagon and Henry Letfman.
The name of one memberelect was ordered to be stricken from the roll in consequence of the provisions of the ByLaws nqft having been complied with within the prescribed time.
The deaths of twentvone members and eleven correspondents have been announced.
The names of the deceased have been recorded in the printed Proceedings under the several dates of announcement.
Twentj'two papers have been presented for publication as follows  Angelo Heilprin 3  Rev.
Dr. H. C McCook 2  Theodore D. Rand 2  Henry S. Williams 1  Dr. W. S. AY.
Ruschenberger 1  L. T. Da' 1  Aubrey H. Smith 1  Rafael Arango 1  Dr. Harrison Allen 1  J. S. Iewiserry 1  Charles Mohr 1  T. W. Eastlake 1 R. E. C. Stearns 1  Dr. Joseph Leid 1  Drs.
H. C. Wood and H. P. Formad 1  Joseph Swain 1  H. A. Keller 1  E. S. Reinhold 1.
These include four papers which were presented through the Mineralogical Section and published as part of its Proceedings The paper by Drs.
Wood and Formad on Diphtheria was withdrawn by the authors  all the others have been printed.
One hundred and fiftytwo pages of the Proceedings for 1881 and two hundred and fortyeight for 1882 together with six lithographic plates have been published.
Some of the earlier numbers of the publications hailing been entirely exhausted it was found necessary to reprint 75 pages and three plates of the quarto Journal and 38 pages of the Proceedings.
The Publication Committee is greatly indebted to Mr. Chas.
F. Parker who has devoted much care to the arrange23 318 PROCEEDIGS OF TUE ACADEMY OP 1882. ment of our stock of the earlier iDiiblications.
Apart from frequent errors of paging and numbering of signatures no account had been taken of stock on hand since the removal of the society to the present building and it required one of Mr. Parker's experience in such work to determine how far sets of the first ten volumes of the Proceedings could be completed.
The result has been an unusually large return from sales of back numbers and complete sets as maj' be seen breference to the report of the Treasurer.
It will however require considerable additional outlay for reprinting to enable the Committee to fill orders for the first series of the Proceedings.
The scarcer numbers and volumes have not of course been sold separately.
One hundred and twenty five copies of the Proceedings liave been distributed to subscribers and three hundred and forty to foreign and domestic exchanges.
Of the latter seventjsix have been sent by mail and two hundred and sixtyfoUr have been distributed by the Smithsonian Institution and its s'stem of international agencies.
The average attendance at the weekly meetings which have been held without interruption has been twenty six.
Verbal communications have been made by thirty two individuals and the majority of them have been published in the Proceedings So well has the interest in these meetings been sustained that it has been found desirable to report forty three of them or all but nine and these for the most part held in midsummer for the public papers.
In addition to the regular meetings of the Acadeni' those of the Sections have been held with the results recorded in tlie several reports.
The B'Laws were amended as follows   Art.
14 Chap.
V by striking out all after the word  meetings in the third line and inserting  and with like approval may change the same Art 4 Chap V by adding  But Sections may admit persons not members of the Academy to be contributors under such rules and on such terms as the Section may determine always provided that a contributor shall not be eligible to office in a Section or to vote on an' piestion and also provided that the rights and privileges of a contributor shall be restricted to attendance at the meetings of the Section to the reading of original scientific papers and to taking part in the scientific discussions and proceedings exclusively and that a contributor shall have no other right or privilege whntovor in the Academv.''
A proposition to so amend Art.
1 Chapter XI as to prevent the loaning of tj'pe specimens from the Museum was on the recommendation of the Council lost it being the opinion of the majority that sufficient guarantee for their care and preservation alreadyexisted in the laws governing the loaning of specimens.
On April 25 Dr. Chas.
Schaeffer was elected a Curator to supply the A'acancy caused by the death of Dr. Kenderdine.
He held the position until Oct. 31 when he resigned in consequence of a proposed continued absence from the country.
As the vacancy occurred so near the end of the year it was not deemed necessary to fill it until the casting of the annual ballot which resulted in the election of Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger together with the three Curators who had held office during the yeav.
The death of Mr. Wm.
S. Yaux left vacant a VicePresidency and a Curatorship.
On May 23 the Rev.
Dr. Henry C. McCook was elected to the former office and Mr. Jacob Binder to the latter.
Mr. Thos.
A. Robinson was elected to fill the vacancy in the Council caused by the election of Rev.
Dr. McCook as VicePresident he thereby becoming an exofficio member of the Council.
At the meeting held Ma' 28 a letter was read from a friend of the Acadeni' presenting through Mr. Jos.
Jeanes the sum of one thousand dollars to be appropriated in such manner as Mr. Jeanes might think best for the interests of the society.
It having been suggested by Mr. Jeanes that the money might with advantage be made the nucleus of a Museum Fund this disposition of the gift was ordered and the meeting held Ma 30 adopted the following resolutions placing the creation of the Fund on formal record   Inasmuch as the Academ' has determined to appropriate towards the creation of a Museum Fund one thousand dollars which have been received from  a friend of the Academy whose name is withheld at his request through the kindly hands of Mr. Jeanes   Resolved That the Museum Fund thus begun be held under the provisions of the Bylaws Chap.
VI like other special funds.
That Mr. Jeanes be requested to convey to oui' liberal friend the thanks of the Academy for his bounty and generous token of friendliness to scientific work.
The Museum of the Acadeni in some respects one of the finest in the world has grown almost entirely hy gifts from those interested in the progress of the natural sciences.
The Curators have never until now had even the smallest annual sum placed at their disposal for the purchase of desiderata and many opportunities therefore of obtaining such have been lost.
Several of the departments of the Museum are now so large that a comparatively small outlay will be sufficient to keep them abreast of current investigation.
The value of a museum depends not so much upon its size as upon the care taken bjcompetent persons in the selection of the objects composing it.
Thanks to the liberality of Mr. Isaiah Y. Williamson Mr. Jos.
Jeanes and the late Dr. Thomas B.Wilson the Academ is reasonably well supplied with current scientific literature but such fresh collections as have been studied from time to time by those connected with the society either as members or students have been for the most part secured by individual enterprise.
It is hoped that the Museum Fund now created will be so added to as to furnish the means of procuring for the society' material for original research.
At the meeting held Sept. 12 a committee consisting of Messrs. Ruschenberger Redfield Tryon McCook and Meehanwas appointed for the purpose of determining means for the extension of the building.
In harmony with a suggestion made by Dr. Horatio C. Wood during a communication to the Academy Oct. 10 on the source of supply of the cinchona alkaloids a committee consisting of Messrs. H. C. Wood Thos Meehan John K. Valentine Isaac C. Martindale and John II.
Redfield was appointed to memorialize Congress as to the importance of making suitable experiment in the cultivation of Cuprea bark within the limits of the United States.
No reports from these committees have as jet been received.
All of which is respectfully submitted Edw.
J. Nolan Recording Secretary.
REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY.
In accordance with the laws of the Academy the Corresponding Secretary submits the following report for the year ending Nov. 30 1882.
The business for the year has consisted for the most part of letters from corresponding societies transmitting their publications and acknowledging the receipt of those sent by us as well as acknowledgments from newly elected Correspondents.
Tie correspondence from the Academy has been the official acknowledgments and thanks of the society for donations of various kinds to the Museum and the notification of Correspondents of their election.
In addition there is always an amount of miscellaneous correspondence the greater part of which has been brought before the Academy for its action when needed otherwise the letters usuall' of inquiry have been promtl3' answered.
During the summer the Corresponding Secretarj' had the opportunity of visiting the libraries of many corresponding societies and found the exchanges in good state of completeness and as promptly received as is usual through the international exchange.
Deficiencies were however detected in some instances and requests have since been officially received for missing parts.
During my absence the duties of the position were kindly and ably performed by Prof. Angelo Heilprin.
The summary is as follows   LETTERS RECEIVED.
Acknowledgments from Corresponding Societies .
46 Lettei's of transmission of publications .
.
.50 Acknowledgments of election ..... 1 Miscellaneous 17 LETTERS SENT.
Acknowledgments of donations to Museum .
.
165 Notifications of Correspondents elected ... 6 Miscellaneous 12 The donations to the Museum have been acknowledged in full to the donors the number above indicating merel' the letters sent  a more detailed account will appear in the Curators' report.
Respectfully submitted George H. Horn M. D. Corresponding Secretary.
352 1882.
REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN.
The Librarian reports that during the year ending Nov. 30 1882 there have been 2Y95 additions made to the library of the Academ'.
This increase has been composed of 366 volumes 2417 pamphlets and parts of periodicals and 12 maps.
The larger number consists as heretofore of instalments of journals and transactions received in exchange for the publications of the Academy from corresponding societies.
The sources from which this increase has been derived is as follows   Societies 1058 Editors 769 I. V. Williamson Fund .
.
291 Authors 230 F. V. Hayden 158 Jos.
Jeanes 61 Wilson Fund 50 Geo.
Vaux 41 Department of the Interior .
21 Department of Agriculture .
13 Geological Surv.
of Belgium 13 Executors of the late Dr. Robert Bridges 12 Geological Purvey of India .
10 Engineer Department U.S.A. 8 Isaac Lea 8 Minister of Public Works France 6 Treasury Department .
.
5 War Department .... 4 British Museum .... 3 Smithsonian Institution .
3 Minister of Public Works Mexico 3 Geological Survey of New Jersey 2 Geological Survey of Canada 2 Norwegian Govex'ument .
2 Trustees of Public Library Victoria Health Department N. York Rev.
Dr. Syle Liverpool Free Public Library Geodetic Commission of the Netherlands Fish Commissioners of Connecticut J.
A. Ryder Geol.
Survey of Minnesota B. Westermann  Co. .
.
Department of Mines Nova Scotia Department of Mines N. S.W.
Asa Gray U. S. Coast Survey .
.
.
Louisiana Board of Health Rev.
H. C.McCook .
.
.
Geological Survey of Pennsylvania Thomas Meelian Trustees of City Hospital Boston G. W. Fox Mayor of Brighton .
.
.
Australian Museum Sydney Royal College of Surgeons The books and pamphlets obtained from these sources were distributed to the various departments of the library as follows  Journals 2124 Geology 185 General Natural History .
.
69 Conchology G2 Mineralogy 60 Entomology  58 Botany 55 Bibliography 19 Chemistry 18 Anthropology 17 Ornithology 14 Agriculture 13 Physical Science .... 12 Voyages and Travels ... 10 Helminthology 9 Ichthyology 9 Medicine 8 Mammalogy 8 Anatomy and Physiology .
8 Herpetology 6 Encyclopedias 5 Education 4 Geography 3 Languages 1 Miscellaneous 18 The income oftlie I.V.Williamson Fund has been mainlj devoted during the past year to the purchase of continuations of books already subscribed for and to the paying of bills which had accumulated in consequence of the failure of some of the groundrents from which the fund is derived as noticed in my last annual report.
These bills have now all been paid and the entire income of the fund for the coming year will be at the disposal of the committee.
With the exception of Elliott's Felidae and Bucerotidse but little has been obtained from the income of the Wilson Fund except the continuations of works subscribed for b the late Dr. Thos.
B. Wilson.
The more valuable books in addition to those received from the above funds and in exchange have been the gift of Mr. Jos.
Jeanes who in addition to the 739.80 recorded in my last report as having been given by him for the purchase of geological and botanical books has placed during the past year 300 at the disposal of the Librarj' Committee for the purchase of such miscellaneous works as were immediatel desirable.
The titles of works thus obtained  as well as those of all others received during the year will be found in the appended list of additions to thelibrar3 The Academy is also indebted to Mr. Jeanes for a gift of 300 to be used in binding journals etc. subscribed for from the I. V. Williamson Fimd.
At a meeting of the Academy held April 26 1882 it was resolved in accordance with the recommendation of the Council to authorize the Library Committee to accept the proposition which had been received from Mr. Geo.
W. Tryon Jr. under date of Jan. 16 to dispose by sale of certain works in the library which were in no sense connected with natural history together with the duplicates which had been accumulating for years.
The pi'oposition to select catalogue and sell these books under the supervision of the Library Committee was made on condition that onehalf the net proceeds after paying expenses should be transferred to the Academy and the other half to the Conchological Section to form the nucleus of a fund for the purchase of specimens for the Museum.
The sale was authorized under the conviction that many valuable books on the Fine Arts and general literature would be of more use in collections where they would be inquired for and consulted than if they were retained as part of the libraiy of the Academy from the specialty of which the' were so distinct.
Such a disposition of these books and the accumulated duplicates as would be of greatest benefit to the library of the Academy would certainly meet with the approval of their liberal donors chief among whom were Wm.
Maclure and Dr. Thomas B. Wilson.
About 1897 volumes were thus disposed of 12T2 were works on religion history politics and general literature for the most part of little interest or value  424 were duplicates and 201 were on the fine arts architecture antiquities etc.
Care was taken to retain everything which could be considered as even remotely pertaining to natural histor The proceeds of the sale amounted to 1325.14 the Academy's share of which 662.57 was appropriated for binding.
Each volume thus bound has a label placed on the inside of the cover properl' crediting the fund.
This amount in addition to the sum received from Mr. Jeanes has enabled me to have bound during the 3'ear 077 volumes while 240 are in process of binding.
It is believed that a sufficient balance will remain to provide for the binding of about 200 volumes in addition to those above noted.
The binding of our periodicals had been some jea.rs in arrears and the work now done although it forwards the orderlj arrangement of the librar and adds greatl to the convenience of readers leaves a large number of volumes still in unbound parts.
Ever effort has been made as heretofore to keep our large collection of periodicals as complete as possible by purchase and exchange.
Nearly all the applications made for deficiencies during the year have been answered promptly and satisfactoril.
A portrait in oil of the late Prof. S. S. Haldeman painted by Waugh was presented b' Mrs. S. J. Haldeman Haly and one of Dr. Thos.
B. Wilson b Ulilke of Washington has been obtained by subscription.
Thelatter portrait completes the galler' of past Presidents with the exception of Dr. Robert Bridges.
An effort is being made with almost the certainty of success to secure by subscription a portrait of Dr. Bridges which it is hoped will be hung in place earlj in the year.
A framed lifesized crayon portrait of Prof. John Tyndall was presented by the artist Mr. Ross.
In view of the above statements the Academy may be congratulated on the fact that the past year has been an unusually prosperous one for the library.
All of which is respectfully submitted Edw.
J. Nolan Librarian.
REPORT OF THE CURATORS.
The Curators present the following from the Curatorincharge as their report for the jear ending November 30 1882   I would respectfully report that during the jear Mr. C H. Townsend has been engaged in separating the families of Passerine birds from the general ornithological collection preparatory to a better arrangement of that order.
Mr. G. Howard Parker has been engaged in the arrangement of the Coleoptera.
The various collections have been carefully examined and are in good condition.
The specimens presented to the Museum during the year have been labeled and placed in their proper places.
Some progress has been made in labeling and arranging of specimens in the Museum.
Respectfully C. F. Parker.
SUMMARY OF THE REPORT OF WM.
C. HENSZEY Treasurer for the year ending Xov.
30 1882.
Dk.
To Balance from last account  918 71  Initiation fees 140 00  Contributions semiannual contributions 1927 51  Life Memberships 200 00  Admissions to Museum 458 60  Sale of Guide to Museum 45 00  Sale of duplicate books  5 00  7 7  Onehalf proceeds of sale of books 662 57 J  Sale of paper 1 05  Freight returned 13 75  Fees Lectures on Paloeontolugy 168 00     Mineralogy 28 00  Publication Committee 1362 57  Interest from Mortgage Investments Joshua T. Jeanes' Legacy 1000 00  Wilson Fund toward Salary of Librarian 300 00  By Publication Fund.
Interest on Investments 508 55  Barton Fund. 
  480 00  Life Membership Fund. 
  100 00  Maintenance Fund. 
  50 00  Eckfeldt Fund. 
  69 79  Interest on Deposits 51 10 8490 20 Cr.
Salaries Janitors etc 3204 96 Freight 38 21 Repairs 3.52 93 Insurance 30 00 Coal 418 00 Gas 134 83 Mounting Bird 1 50 Printing Stationery and Postage Stamps 126 77 Alcohol 2 30 Newspaper reports 92 0 Water Rent 26 15 Trays 49 00 Printing and Paper 1275 28   Binding same 30 00   Plates and Engravings 197 00 Binding 429 75 Six Cases of Drawers 136 50 Guides to Museum 23 00 Books 44 15 Trubner  Co. London 59 96 A. Heilprin fees from Lectures on PaliBontology 168 00 H. C. Lewis fees from Lectures on Mineralogy 28 00 Life Memberships transferred to Life Membership Fund 200 00 Transferred to Stott Legacy Fund 2 00 Miscellaneous 428 58 7498 89 Balance General Account 991 31 LIFE MEMBERSHIP FUND.
For Maintenance.
Balance per last Statement 1100 00 Life Memberships transferred to this account 200 00 Interest on Investments 100 00 1400 00 Transferred to General Account 100 00 To Balance for Investment 1300 00 BARTON FUND.
For Printing and Illustrating Publications.
Balance per last Statement 240 00 Interest on Investments 240 00 1480 00 Transferred to General Account 480 00 JESSUP FUND.
For Support of Students.
Balance per last Statement 581 67 Interest on Investments fiO 00 1141 67 Disbursed 430 00 Balance 711 67 PUBLICATION FUND.
Balance per last Statement 1408 25 Income from Investments 290 00 I. C. Martindale.
Life Subscription to Proceedings 25 00 1723 25 Transferred to General Accouat 508 55 To Balance for Investment 1214 70 MAINTENANCE FUND.
Balance per last Statement  626 35 Interest on Investments 50 00 Isaac C. Martindale 6 79 Joseph Wharton 1000 00 Susan W. Logan and A. Sydney Logan Executors J. Dickinson Logan deceased 500 00 Less Collateral Inheritance Tax 25 00 475 00 2158 14 Transferred to General Account 50 00 To Balance for Investment 2108 14 Mrs. STOTT FUND.
For Publications.
Balance per last Statement for Investment 2000 00 Transferred from General Account 2 00   2002 00 iJy Balance  2 00 Investment in Bond and Mortgage 5 per cent.
Interest 700 00 702 00 To Balance for Investment 1300 00 ECKFELDT FUND.
Balance per last Statement for Investment 966 86 Interest on Investments 69 79 103b 65 Transferred to General Account 69 79 To Balance for Investment 966 86 I. V. WILLIAMSON LIBRARY FUND.
Balance per last Statement 41 46 Rents collected 77I 50 Groundrents collected 1197 99 2010 96 For Books 1040 31 Subscription to Journal 3 00 Binding 4 45 Taxes and Repairs to Properties 429 17 Collecting 100 54 1577 47 Balance 433 48 THOMAS B. WILSON LIBRARY FUND.
Balance overdrawn as per last Statement 113 38 For Books 340 61 For Binding 3 90 Transferred to General Account toward Salary of Librarian 300 00 757 89 Interest on Investments 525 00 Balance Overdrawn 232 89 MUSEUM FUND.
Donation from Unknown Friend per Joseph Jeanes Esq. for Investment 1000 00 BOOK FUND.
Balance per last Statement 525 80 Joseph Jeanes.
Donation 300 00 Thomis Meehan.
For Books 12 09 838 49 Less cash paid for Books 498 66 Balance 339 83 INSTRUCTION FUND.
Balance per last Statement 35 00 Isaac 0.
Martindale 1 30 Frederick Gutekunst 10 00 John T. Morris 50 00 96 SO Less cash disbursed for purposes appertaining to the Fund 36 30 Balance 60 00 BINDING FUND.
Donations from Joseph Jeanes Esq.
Joseph Jeanes.
Donations 800 00 Less cash disbursed for Binding 22 15 Balance 277 85 REPORT OF BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL SECTION.
Eighteen meetings were held during the year with an average attendance of about fifteen members.
The following were elected members   Dr. Crozier Griffith Dr. George A. Rex Edward P. Starr Wilson Mitchell.
The following became contributors   Dr. McClurg J.H.
Fenton Dr. R. A. Rainear J. P. Herbert D. S. Newhall.
The following resigned membership   J. E. Mitchell Dr. R. J. Levis Dr. Guilford Dr. Charles Turnbnll.
The following members have died   Dr. George Dixon Dr. Robert S. Kenderdine William S. Yaux.
During the year many valuable communications were brought before the Section and interesting discussions kept up the usual attendance of members and visitors.
Among the more valuable communications etc. may be mentioned those by the following gentlemen   Mr. D. S. Holmiin.
 An exhibition of a Projecting Microscope of peculiar design.
Dr. L Brewer Hall.
 An Eye Protector to be used upon the draw tube of the microscope.
Mr. Balen.
 An exhibition of living objects espeeiallj' specimens f Philodina Pandorina etc.
Mr. Mitchell McAllister.
 A lecture upon the Cultivation of Hyacinths.
Mr. John Ryder  Upon the Embryology of Fishes.
Also upon a Compressorium of special design for study of the above.
Mr. George Binder.
 Extended observations upon the Antherenis.
Mr. J. Schimmel.
 Extended observations upon the Chilodon cucullulus.
Dr. G. A. Rex.
 Lecture upon the Classification of the Myxomycetes.
Mr. Edward Potts.
 Lecture upon Freshwater Sponges and their Classification.
Mr. Jacob Binder.
 Extended observations upon the Sucking Cups upon the freshwater beetles.
Dr. J. G. Hunt.
 Upon Repi'oduction in the Alga.
Also upon Special Methods of Preparation and Mounting of Microscopical Objects.
Dr. Crozier Gritfith.
 Upon the Minute Anatomy of the Kidney and upon the Vasa Recta Vessels of the Testicle.
Mr. Charles Perot.
 Upon the Development of Attacus.
Dr. Alfred Reed.
 Upon Vaccine Virus.
Mr. John C. Wilson.
 Upon Collomia coccinea.
On October 16 the Mineralogical Section of the Academy by invitation met with this Section in the consideration of objects of interest to both.
At the Annual Meeting held the first Monday in December the following were elected officers to serve during the year  Director ..... Mi.
Jacob Binder.
ViceDirector Recorder Corresponding Secretary Treasurer .
Conservator .
Mr. John C. Wilson.
.
Dr. Robert J. Hess.
.
Dr. L. Ashley Faught.
.
Dr. Isaac Norris Jr. .
Mr. Charles P. Perot.
Respectfully Robert J. Hess Recorder REPORT OF THE COXCHOLOGICAL SECTION.
The Recorder of the Conchological Section respectfully reports that papers by Prof. Angelo Heilprin Rafael Arango T. W. Eastlake and R. E. C. Stearns have been published in the Academy's Proceedings.
Since last report two members TVm.
S. Vaux and Chas.
M. Wheatley and one correspondent Dr. F. H. Troschel have died.
Mr. Yaux became a member December 6 1867 and was a frequent and liberal contributor to our Museum.
Mr. Wheatley was elected January 3 1861.
He for many years studied the Freshwater Mollusks and contributed freely both to our Museum and publications.
Dr. Troschel was elected a correspondent August 1 186t.
His death leaves incomplete his great work upon the Dentition of the Mollusca.
Besides being the author of numerous other papers principally upon the Anatomy of Mollusks Dr. Troschel had for 3'ears annually reviewed the literature of Conchology for Wiegmann's  Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte.
His death is a loss to science especially in his own department.
Mr. Geo.
W. Tr'on Jr. Conservator reports that   During the jear ending December 1 1882 fifty two donations of recent shells and mollusks have been received aggregating 2049 specimens of T24 species.
Assisted as usual by Mr. Chas.
F. Parker these additions have all been labeled mounted and arranged in the general collection which now numbers 40225 named tablets upon which are mounted 141641 specimens.
A detailed list of the accessions for the year is annexed to this report.
The most important of these are A collection of 221 species all new to the Museum purchased b the Section  61 species of Californian marine shells including a number of rare and fine specimens presented bv Joseph Jeanes  123 species of Tasmanian marine shells nearly all new to our collection iresented by C. E. Beddome of Hobart Town Tasmania.
To our generous Australian correspondents Dr. J. C. Cox and Mr. John Brazier we are again indebted for valuable suites of their native shells. 
The rearrangement of the Conchological Museum commenced four years ago is progressing.
Dining the 'ear the Marginellidte and Olividae have been revised and largely relabeled.
Some idea 3G2 PEOCEEDINQS OF THE ACADEMY OP 1882 of the extent and completeness of our collection may be formed from the fact that in these two families alone it includes 946 trays.
The Columbellidte and Cyprceadae are now undergoing lilce revision the latter bj'Mr. S. R.
Roberts.
There have been no changes made in the ByLaws of the Section.
The officers of the Section for 1883 are   Director ViceDirector Recorder .
Secretary .
Librarian .
Conservator Treasurer .
W. S. W. Ruschenberger.
John Ford.
S. Ra3mond Roberts.
John H. Redfield.
Edw.
J. Nolan.
Geo.
W. Tryon Jr. Wm.
L. Mactier.
Respectfully submitted on behalf of the Conchological Section by S. Raymond Roberts Recorder.
REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION.
The YiceDirector of the Botanical Section takes great pride in reporting that notwithstanding the agreeable reports he has had to make in former years he believes the prosperity of the work of the Section has been greater during this than any former one.
Meetings have been held in all but the two summer months and many valuable facts communicated some of which have been repeated before the general meetingsof the Academy and published in its Proceedings.
There are no debts of any consequence against the Section while its Treasurer reports a balance on hand of 11 9.92.
During the year one member has resigned and it has lost one by death.
The officers elected for the ensuing year are as follows   Director .
.
.
Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger.
ViceDirector .
.
Thomas Meehan.
Recorder .
.
.
F. Lamson Scribner.
Cor.
Secretary    Martindale.
Treasurer j Conservator .
.
.3.
H. Redfield.
It seems almost superfluous to reieat what has been so often said before in these reiorts that the voluntary work of the members ig not equal to the task of placing the magnificent Herbarium of the Academy on the footing it is worth of occupj'ing unless some competent botanist could be employed within a reasonable time.
Still in the hope that the Academy may soon see its way to aid them the members continue to do what the can  and the Section has very great pleasure in adopting the report of its Conservator as part of its report of the work of the yesiv.
Respectfully submitted Thomas Meehan ViceDirector.
Conservator's Rejjort.
 The additions to the Herbarium of the Academy during the past year exceed those of an' year since the organization of the Section being estimated at 3346 species of which more than onethird were new to the collection and adding more than 100 genera not before represented.
For a large proportion of these we are indebted to the zeal and liberality of our own members who have evinced a laudable desire to perfect the Academj's collection by filling its desiderata and by improving the character of the representation of species alreadypossessed.
Special thanks are due to Messrs. Canby Parker Martindale Meehan and others for their efforts in this direction.
But we have also been favored with most liberal donations from other sources.
From Dr. Gray of the Cambridge Herbarium we have received more than 1000 species.
Among them we may specif' a second collection of plants made in the Kuram Yallej Afghanistan in 1880 by Major J. E. T. Aitcheson and valuable accessions from China Formosa Japan Australia and Tasmania also a fine series of the polypetalous plants of our Mexican border collected b Schatfner Havard Palmer and others which supplementing a collection of Palmer's plants from one of our own members give us a very full representation of the plants of the TexoMexican region.
Baron F. von Miiller of Melbourne Australia has sent us through Mr. Meehan 284 species of Australian plants manof them desiderata and from Prof. Sargent of the U. S. Forestry Commission we have received choice herbarium specimens of some of the rarer trees and shrubs of our western regions.
A more complete list of the donations for the jear will be appended.
24 The care and labor incident to the reception of these additions have been great and though the Conservator has received most essential assistance from Messrs. Parker Burk Meehan and Scribner he has had little time left to devote to the improvement of the condition of the herbarium.
Yet something has been done in this way.
Provisional lists of species in the general herbarium have been completed nearly to the end of the polypetalous orders.
In the North American Herbarium the orders Ranunculaceae Saxifragacea and a few smaller orders have been mounted bjthe aid of Mr. Parker who has also contributed liberally to the filling of gaps in these orders for this purpose placing his own collection entirely at the disposal of the Conservator.
Respectfully submitted John H. Redfield Conse7'vato7 REPORT OF MINERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL SECTION.
The Director of the Mineralogical and Geological Section would respectfully report   Meetings of the Section have been held regularly through the year with a fair attendance but the papers read have not been as numerous as in former jears.
The additions to the Collection have been satisfactor'.
On the evening of October 15th by request of the members of the Microscopical and Biological Section our Section met with them the subject under consideration being Microscopic Mineralogy.
B' the courtesy of the former Section a large number of microscopes many of them very fine instruments were exhibited and by means of them specimens of minerals and rocks were examined.
This was the first joint meeting of Sections since the passage of the amendment to the Bylaws removing the prohibition against it and its success was beyond question.
Respectfully submitted  Theo.
D. Rand.
Director.
REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INVERTEBRATE PALAEONTOLOGY.
The Professor of Invertebrate Paloeontology respectfulh reports that during the year 1882 a course of 36 lectures on Physiography' and Invertebrate Palteontolog was delivered in the classroom of the Academy commencing Jan. 6 and terminating May 9 which course was attended b an average of about 27 listeners largeh' made up of teachers male and female from some of the more prominent institutions of learning in the city.
The additions to the Palaeontological Department of the Academy's Museum which will be found recorded in another place have been during the present year comparatively insignificant but no special attempts have been made to increase the collections in this direction since it was deemed advisable not to further burden the department until more of the old stock had been worked off through arrangement and classification.
The most important contribution received although not jet formally presented to the Academj' is that of true Nummulites from the Peninsula of Florida the first and only representatives of that highly important group of organisms thus far discovered on the continent of North America.
The work of labeling and classifying the old collections in the Paleeontological Department of the Academy has made considerable progress during the year the determination of specimens embracing material contained in about 300 trays.
The Conservator is pleased to state that almost the entire series of Tertiary fossils of the eastern United States  Eocene Oligocene Miocene and socalled Pliocene  is now satis factorildisplayed and labeled the redetermination and identification of species having been efiected for upwards of 1700 trays.
The collection as it now stands constitutes by far the most important and typical collection of tertiary invertebrate fossils in the countr' and must form for some time to come the groundwork for any standard work bearing upon this section of American palseontological history.
The department of the library pertaining to Geolog' and Palaeontologj' has received many valuable accessions during the year for a considerable portion of which the Academy is again indebted to the liberalitjof Mr. .Toseph Jeanes.
The department is also largel indebted to Mr. Chas.
F. Parker Curatorincharge who has kindl undertaken the mounting of specimens.
Respectfully Angelo Heilprin Professor of Invertebrate Palaeontology.
REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF MINERALOGY.
The Professor of Mineralogy respectfull' reports that in addition to the usual work of classifying the collections under his charge he has delivered during the winter and spring of 1882 a course of 28 lectures on Mineralogy.
The lectures given under the auspices of the Committee on Instruction began on January 5 1882 and were given triweekly in the classi'oom of the Academy.
They included an examination of the valuable collection of the Academy and practical demonstrations of the method of determining minerals both by their external and by their chemical characters.
The mineralogical collection is gradually increasing in size and in value.
In the absence of any specific fund for the purchase of new specimens it has not been possible to add to its number of species except by exchange or through donations.
Special care has been taken that where minerals are acquired by exchange or otherwise preference should be given to species not in the collection.
300 specimens have been received through donation or exchange 37 of which are species new to the collection.
A detailed catalogue of these with the donors is given in the appended list the minerals new to the collection being printed in italics.
The most noteworthy addition to the collection has been the donation of Mr. J. M. Hartman of a large number of specimens.
The lithological collection has also been increased by some 43 specimens.
The labeling and mounting of the specimens has been performed as before by Mr. Chas.
F. Parker Curatorincharge whose skill in such work has greatly increased the beauty of the collection.
The attention of the friends of the Aademy is again drawn to the necessity of mineralogical apparatus for the prosecution of advanced mineralogical work.
The Professor of Mineralogy has been unable to properly classify the large collection of feldspars in the Academy for want of a suitable polarizing microscope.
The work will be undertaken as soon as an instrument is obtained.
The micas have been classified by the aid of an instrument made at his own expense.
A reflecting goniometer is also greatly to be desired both for class instruction and for the proper determination of many crystalline forms in the collection.
By the death of Mr. Wm.
S. Yaux the Academy has lost a most liberal contributor to the mineralogical collection.
Arrangements aie now in progress which it is hoped will result in transferring his verj valuable collection to the custody of the Academy.
Respectfully submitted IT.
Carvill Lewis Professor of Mineralogy.
The election of Officers for 1883 was held with the following result   President .
.
.
Joseph Leidy M. D. VicePresidents .
.
Thomas Meehan Rev.
Henry C. McCook D. D. Recording Secretary .
Edward J. Nolan M. D. Corresponding Secretary George H. Horn M. D. Treasurer .
.
.
William C. Hensze3 Librarian .
.
.
Edward J. Nolan M. D. Curators .
.
.
Joseph Leid M. D. Clias F. Parker Jacob Binder W. S. W. Ruschenberger M. D. Councillors to serve three Thomas A. Robinson years .
.
.
Edward Potts Isaac C. Martindale Theodore D. Rand.
Finance Committee .
Isaac C Martindale Clai'ence S. Bement Aubrey H. Smith S. Fisher Corlies Geoi'ffe Y. Shoemaker.
