HOMOLOGIES OF THE VERTEBRATE CRYSTALLINE LENS i BY BENJAMIN SHARP M. D. PH.
D. I cannot better introduce my subject than by quoting the following passage from Chas.
Darwin   To suppose that the eye with all its inimitable contrivances for adjusting the focus to different distances for admitting different amounts of light and for the correction of spherical and chromatic aberration could have been formed by natural selection seems I freely confess absurd in the highest possible degree.
Yet reason tells me that if numerous gradations from a perfect and complex eye to one very imperfect and simple each grade being useful to its possessor can be shown to exist  if further the eye does vary ever so slightly and the variations be inherited which is certainly the case  and if any variation or modification in the organ be ever useful to an animal under changing conditions of life then the difficulty of believing that a perfect and complex eye could be formed by natural selection though insuperable b' our imagination can be hardly considered real.
How a nerve comes to be sensitive to light hardly concerns us more than how life itself first originated  but I ma remark that several facts make me suspect that any sensitive nerve may be rendered sensitive to light and likewise to those coarser vibrations of the air which produce sound.
.
.
.
  If it could be demonstrated that any complex organ existed which could not possibly have been formed by numerous successive slight modifications my theory would absolutely break down.
But I can find out no such case.
No doubt many organs exist of which we do not know the transitional grades more especially if we look to muchisolated species round which according to my theory there has been much extinction.
.
.
.
  In the cases in which we know of no intermediate or transitional states we should be very cautious in concluding that none ' Being the principal part of an address delivered before the Biological Section of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia December 15 1884.
''Darwin Chas. On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection etc.
New lork Appleton 1861 p. 167.
 Darwin Chas. Orig.
of Species etc. p. 169. could have existed for the homologies of many organs and their intermediate states show that wonderful metamorphoses in function are at least possible.
' It will be my endeavor to sliow the stages of development of the eye from the simple deposit of pigment in an epithelial cell to the highest form known to us that of the vertebrata.
Invagination seems to be the most simple as well as one of the commonest methods by which organs are formed in the animal series.
The formation of the gastrula of the medullary canal the development of glands etc. etc. by invagination are cases too wellknown to require further comment.
The formation of the eye ear and nose form no exception to this rule.
In a previous paper  I have endeavored to show that the simplest expression of an organ of sight is found in the Lamellibranchiata
These simple organs however are not morphologically the primitive visual organs of the group but adaptive organs the ancestral eyes being present in a few forms only for a short time during the free larval stage of the animal  it is lost when the animal becomes fixed and the head excluded from the light.
We will hastil' review these simple eyes.
One of the simplest cases is found in Ostreavirginicafig.
1 in which we have on the free edge of the mantle a number of epithelial cells fig.
i. visual ceiis ...    T 1 j  y of Ostreavirginica
c containing a nucleus n a deposit of pigment cuticle p pigment p in their exterior extremities and on the ''' outer surface a fine transparent refractive cuticula c.
There seems to be no protection for the organ save the power of withdrawal of the whole mantle within the valves of the shell.
Experiment conclusively proves that sight exists in these animals as shown by Ryder. We next find these pigmented visual organs confined to a certain point of the mantle which has become specialized into the socalled siphon.
In Venus mercenaria we have these cells unprotected on the external surface of the siphon but at the same time some cells are more or less protected at the base of the tentacles  but as this animal is able to retract the entire  Darwin Chas. Orig of Species p. 182.
Sharp B. On the Visual Organs in Lamellibranchiata
Mittheil.
a. d. Zool.
Stat zu Neapel Bd.
v 1884 p. 447.
 Ryder J.
A. Primitive Visual Organs.
Science vol.
ii.
No.
44 1883 .
739. siphon within the shell protection is thus afforded to these delicate organs.
When we tind forms which are unable to wholly retract the siphon within the shell the visual cells are confined to grooves at the bases of the tentacles.
In the rapid withdrawal of the siphon through the sand in cases of danger we can easil' see that the sharp particles would irritate any delicate org'an and protection must be afforded to them.
Now the possession of sight at the only exposed portion of the animal would be of the highest value in the struggle of life to its possessor if when a shadow like that of a rapacious fish is thrown upon the organ of sight a rapid retraction will save it from being nipped off.
In Solen vagina and S. ensis the former being the species on which I first satisfactorily proved the existence of a visual sense  we find the cells have become much more developed as is seen in fig.
2 this being drawn to the same scale as that of fig.
1 but are essentially on the same plan as those in Ostrea
These cells line deep grooves at the bases of the tentacles and are found nowhere visual' ceiT of else thus being amply protected from any injur3 Sole7i vaqina.
c mi i  .i in v. cuticle p pigThe nervcs supplying these visual cells are probment  n nucleus.
 j ncrves of general sensibility perhaps somewhat specialized.
The remarkable organs of Pecten and Spondylus I will not here consider as they throw no light on our immediate subject and have been considered by me elsewhere. In passing next to a higher group the Gastropoda from which the Lamellibranchiata probably degenerated marked steps in advancement are to be noted.
In Patella we find that the pigment spots or visual organs take their morphological position namely in the oral end of the body and consist of a single pair in the base of the broad tentacle.
More than a single pair of eyes are not found in the Gastropoda
' Sharp B. On Visual Organs in Soleii.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. Nov. 6 1883 p. 248  also On the Visual Organs in Lamellibranchiata
Sharp B. On the Visual Organs in Lamellibranchiata
' The adajtive dorsal eyes of Onchidiiim form an exception but the normal pair of cephalic eyes are present.
See Semper Carl Ueber Sehorgane von Typus der Wirbelthiereaugen am Riicken von Schnecken.
Wiesbaden Kreid.l 1877.
In Patella as shown by Fraisse there is a simple sphere made up of pigmented cells similarly formed as those described for the Lamellibranchiata
This sphere is open in front and allows the entrance of the external media.
Haliotis  gives us an advance  here we have an open sphere as in Patella but instead of the refractive cuticula to each cell they afe physiologically combined into one mass forming a lens.
This lens is the product of the cells of the ee and is purely a secretion  a simple cuticular lens as is found in all the eyes of the invertebrata  while the lens of the vertebrata where it exists is always cellular.
The cellular lenslike bodies found in the socalled eyes of Pecten and Spondylvs and the dorsal eyes of Onchidium are exceptional and will be treated of elsewhere.
Fissurella  gives us an eye that goes practically as far as any gastropod eye the higher forms merely carry out a little more in detail this plan.
This results in a closed eye containing a lens the transparent epidermal covering acting as a cornea.
The pigmented layer is as in Haliotis namely the cells composing it are devoid of a transparent cuticula the lens and cornea serving as the refractive bodies.
The phylogenetic development of the moUuscan eye therefore cephalopoda excepted is as follows 1 a pigmental surface of epithelial cells  2 pigmented invaginated grooves for protection at centralized points of the body each visual cell having a cuticular body  3 this groove contracting to an open sphere which closes  4 the refractive bodies of each cell being centralized into a cuticular lens.
A distinct nerve specialized for sight is developed Haliotis and Fissurella which connects the eye with the superior cephalic ganglia.
Now let us see how the ontogenetic development agrees with the phylogenetic.
Bobretzky and Haddon  have given us the development of ' Fraisse Paul Ueber MoUusken Augen mit embryonalem Typus.
Zeitschr.
f. wis.
Zool. Bd.
xxxv 1881.
 Fraisse Paul Ueber Mollusken Augen mit embryonalem Typus.
Zeitschr.
f. wiss.
Zool. Bd.
xxxv 1881.
Bobretky N. Studien iiber die embryonale Entwickelung der Gastropoden Arch.
f. m'kr.
Anat.
Bd. xiii 1877.
 Haddon A.
C Note on the Development of Mollusca Quart.
Jour.
Mic.
Sci. n. s. vol.
xxii 188'i.
the gastropod ee the former in Fusus and the latter in Murex.
I have carefully investigated the embryological growth of this same organ in Nassa and lastl Carriere gives an account of the regenei'ation of the eye after amputation in the Pulmonata.
We find that ontogen' merely recapitulates phjlogeny as we would naturally anticipate.
There is first an invagination which closing forms a sphere  in the cells of this invagination there is a deposit of pigment and from them a cuticular lens is formed which increases in size by the addition of concentric layers.
A nerve is there developed and connects this eye with the superior cephalic ganglia.
We will now pass to consideration of the eyes of the vertebrata which with a few exceptions are remarkable for the similarity in general plan of organization throughout the whole group.
1 will not enter here into a detailed account of the work that has been done on this subject nor into a description of the finer anatomy except where necessary to illustrate points under consideration.
I leave these to a future and more exhaustive work upon the Anatomical and Physiological Evolution of the Organ of Vision upon which my friend.
Dr. Charles A. Oliver and myself are now engaged and which is to appear under our joint names.
The general structure of the eye of the vertebrata is well known and I will here simply draw attention to some of the cardinal points.
The eye consists of a more or less spherical body bounded in front by a transparent plate the cornea which is a continuation of the white opaque enveloping sheath of the eyeball called the sclerotica.
Internal to this sclerotica is a layer of pigment choro'idea passing forward to about the position of the junction of the cornea and sclerotica and also extending over the posterior wall of the iris.
Lying on this pigmented layer is the retina the sensory portion of which is considered to be a continuation of the optic nerve and which passes beyond the equator of the eye to a point called the ora serrata.
The cavity of the e3'eball is divided anterioposteriorly into two.
principal chambers the anterior one is again subdivided into two called the anterior and the posterior chamber and includes all the space anterior to  Carriere Jus. Studien iiber die Regenerationseischeinungen bei den Wiibellosen.
I.
Die Regeneration bei den Puhnonaten.
Wiirzburg 1880. the lens.
The anterior chamber is divided from the posterior by the iris the latter being a flattened projection of the vascular layer of the chordidea.
The hole in its centre is called the pupil.
These two chambers are filled with a fluid called the humor aqueus.
Back of the lens and iris is the largest chamber of the eyeball called the vitreous chamber and contains a semifluid mass known as the corpus vitreum.
The lens is a cellular body suspended from the process ciliaris by the suspensory ligament the process ciliaris of the iris is an extension of the vascular layer.
The retina is composed of many layers  one of the most external that which is directed toward the chordidea is called the laj'er of the rods and cones.
The innermost layer that next to the corpus vitreum is the layer of fibres of the optic nerve  between these two are several ganglionic layers.
The whole retina is practically transparent and the light passes through it unchanged to the point of contact of the rods and cones with the pigmented layer.
Here the lightmotion is transferred into a  nerveenergy which is transmitted to the perceptive centres of the brain  no lightmotion of course passes beyond the receiving sensory fibres internally.
The optic nerve pierces the retina fig 3' Diagram repa little on the nasal side of the optic axis.
of'S T inTbl It will thus be seen that the extraneous colorand '' nenlner  waves have in their impinging upon the senthebfiln' 'f cier sory tips of the rods and cones passed through eunl  VSV' the entire thickness of the retina before it has The'rina otVJ'nervx.
been put in a position to give a proper sensory ''syimpression.
In fig.
3 I have given a diagrammatical representation.
B is a. ray of light passing through the retina and impinging on the point of a rod or cone n representing the return through the cells of the retina r to the nervefibres and then passing by them to the brain B.
Now to consider the development of the eye we find that in ' For a detailed account of this see the forthcoming paper of Oliver Charles A. A Correlation Theory of Color Perception Amer.
Jour.
Med.
Sci. Jan. 1885.
Dr. Oliver has kindly allowed me access to the manuscript of this article.
R an early stage of the embryology of a vertebrate the anterior end of the medullary groove or canal as the case may be is divided into three segments which later form the brain.
The anterior of these is known by the name of forebrain or proencephalon  the middle one or midbrain is called mesencephalon  and the posterior the hindbrain or metencephalon.
From the forebrain proceeds outwards and laterally a swelling which increases in size and passes on to the epidermis.
Here an invagination takes place inward to meet this outward braingrowth.
This invagination finally closes and soon becomes cut off to form a hollow vesicle the cavity of which is finally obliterated and becoming transparent forms the lens of the adult eye.
In the meantime the growth from the brain has arched over and above this vesicle and then folds over laterally to enclose the lens.
This process of the brain is hollow and communicates with the ventricular cavities of the brain.
 This differentiation which has taken place to form the socalled  secondary optic vesicle is hardly an invagination in the true sense of the word but is rather a doublewalled plate which folds downwards around the lens this is indicated in the iiG.
4. Diagram to iiiusdiagrammatic representation in fig.
4. trate the method by which      .
.
 the secondry optic vesicle The ICUS fills up the anterior Opening 01 encloses the lens which   .
  i i  .
.
 should fill up the open end.
the cavity 01 the Secondary optic vesicle yeo ver e ra e.   j  edgCS a and h close around the under surface of the lens a certain amount of mesodermic tissue is included which later forms the transparent corpus vitreum.
After the closure is completed there is a doublewalled vesicle the interior wall is the thicker of the two and later gives rise to the manylayered retina the external wall forms the pigment layer of the chordidea.
It not unfrequently happens that we find incomplete closure of the secondary optic vesicle and when this is the.
case in the adult eye the pathological condition known to physicians as coloboma exists.
This may take place in the iris coloboma iridis or in the retina ' It must be borne in mind that the interior of the lens was once a part of the general surface of the body and also the interior of the secondary optic vesicle proceeding first by the formation of the medullary groove and then from that inward.
coloboma retinae  in the latter case on examining the eye with an ophthalmoscope we can see a wedgeshaped white patch the base downwards at the inferior part of the background of the eye the white is the sclerotica shining through.
This is merely a reversion to a primitive state  a failure in the union posteriorly of the two lateral walls of the secondary optic vesicle.
The optic nerve is formed by the bending over and union below of the connecting portion of the secondary optic vesicle with the forebrain.
The portion of mesoderm included by this process is later termed the arteria centralis retinas.
The sclerotica and the vascular laj'er of the choro'idea are formed from the mesoderm and are merely organs for the nourishment and the protection of the nerveelements within.
It seems to me that the steps taken in ontogenic development of the eye point out to us that the course which has been pursued in its phylogenesis from a simple epithelial pigmentary deposit is as follows  The first visual organ primarily consisted of a deposit of pigment centralized at that portion of the animal where it will be of the most use viz.
 at the oral pole.
Since animals as a rule proceed with this extremity forward they are developed in this situation  but in some cases as in the Lamellibranchiataointed out above they are developed at that portion of the body which needs their protection.
The next step in advance is to protect these important organs and as a consequence invaginated grooves result which graduall shorten to form a sphere.
The refracting media of separate cells soon coalesce to produce a cuticular lens.
The nerves of general sensibility connecting this eye with the brain soon become specialized and form a distinct primitive optic nerve.
As the eye increased in importance and usefulness to its possessor a corresponding stimulation took place in the brain where sight is without doubt seated.
Increased activity in any organ causes a corresponding increase in bloodsupply  or better nutrimentsupply  and an increase of development took place all along the tract from the eye to the seat of vision in the brain.
As this increased that part of the brain nearest the e'e enlarged and proceeded by steps toivard the eye similar to the process nowtaking place in the development of the eyes of the Verlebrata the primitive optic nerve still connecting the two.
We then have a stage in which a part of the brain closes over the superior part of the eye being separated by a layer of fibres which is the muchshortened and flattened primitive optic nerve.
The pedicle connecting this advanced part of the brain which may be looked upon as a ganglion we will now call the  secondar optic nerve the optic nerve of the eyes of the adult Vertehrala.
A similar state of affairs as this is found today in the eyes of the Cephalopoda dibranchiata.
This ganglion soon becomes the most important part of the eye and receives the lightwaves upon its exterior wall the primitive eye becoming transparent and later forming the lens.
This  ganglion opticum'''' as it may be provisionally called gradually proceeds downwards about the primitive eye joining below.
As development and importance advance we find the hollowing out of the ganglion opticum this structure later is filled with the corpus vitreum which is included as was shown in the development of the eyes of the Vertebrata.
Thus I hold if this hypothesis be a true one that 1 the lens of the eyes of the Vertebrata is homologous with a primitive invaginated eye such as we find today in the gastropoda  that 2 the layer of optic fibres of the retina is homologous with the primitive optic nerve.
As the retina below has become the sensory part of the e3'e the rays of light must necessarily pass through it to reach a point where nerveenergy is developed.
The nervus opticus of the eyes of the Vertebrata is therefore according to this view really a secondary optic nerve.
We find in the vertebrata and much more frequently in the invertebrata blind animals the near relatives of which have welldeveloped organs of sight.
This blindness is due to the peculiar environments of the animal such as cave life where light is excluded  parasitism etc. etc.
The Proteus of the Adelsberg grotto is an animal that is practically devoid of pigment.
The eye of this practically blind animal is remarkable inasmuch that no lens is developed in the adult state.
Our literature is unfortunately deficient in the embryology of this interesting form so it is at present a matter of impossibility to state whether there ever exist a lens in the earl' development of the eye.
The primitive optic vesicle has the form of that of the embr3os of those vertebrates which have welldeveloped eyes in the adult state  the retina is a thick manycelled layer l'ing on the stratum pigmcntum which contains a very meagre deposit of pigment  the anterior edge of this doublewalled cup formed by the retina and pigmented layer come together owing to the absence of the lens.
It is stated  that no corpus vitreum is present.
This degenerate eye is of little use to the animal and besides the loss of the lens it is covered by the general integument of the body.
Now it may be argued upon my hypothesis that the lens should be last to disappear being phylogenetically the first to appear  but as the secondary optic vesicle has taken up the principal function of the eye viz.
 the developing of nerveenergy we would naturally expect that the accessory organs would be the first to disappear in the process of degeneration  hence the lens modified to an organ of refraction although the most primitive part of the eye would disappear before the secondary optic vesicle since it has lost its function as an eye and acts merely as a refractive agent.
Another objection may be raised which may be well to insert here viz.
 Why should the process from the proencephalon start before the invagination to form the lens the former being a secondary state in the phylogeny of the animal 
I would explain this by the fact that as the optic vesicle being now the most important part of the ee and so established for many generations now appears Jirst and disappears last in degeneration.
In Myxena glutinosa as described by Wm.
Miiller we have an eye consisting of the secondary optic vesicle as in the case of Proteus but open in front and filled with a plug of mesodermal tissue.
The eye is entirely devoid of pigment and lies buried beneath a layer of muscle underlying the skin.
The optic nerve passes into the vesicle and terminates in the retina there being no layer of optic nervefibres present at all.
This eye has proceeded a step further in its degeneration than the eye of Proteus being entirely devoid of pigment and having become more deeply imbedded is covered by a layer of mesodermal tissue the muscular stratum.
Thus in degeneration the eye proceeds step by step backwards towards the brain after first losing its accessories such as the lens cornea sclerotica etc. '
Semper Carl.
Animal life as affected by the natural conditions of existence.
Intern.
Sci.
Series vol.
xxx New York Appleton 1881 p. 78.
 Miiller Wm.
Ueber die Stammesentwickelung des Sehorganes der Wirbelthiere.
Festgabe an Carl Ludwg. Leipzig Vogel 1875 p. vii.
In Branchiostoma lanceolatum we find the degeneration has reached its greatest extreme.
There exists no trace of the eye in form and we recognize its existence only by a slight deposit of pigment on the anterior end of the neural canal.
The brain itself has disappeared in this degenerate form it going hand in hand with the eye so that the only remnant of it is a spot of pigment on the anterior end of the neural canal.
Now this deposit of pigment that we find in Branchiostoma  and a similar deposit in the nervecentres of some of the larvae of the Ascidia looked upon at one time as the ancestors of the Yertebrata while they are if Vertebrata at all greatly degenerated ones  led Lankester ' to regard the primitive type of the Vertebrata as a transparent animal with eyes sessile on the brain I am of the opinion that forms so degenerate as Branchiostoma and the Ascidia should not be taken as a standard on which to base our conclusions for the origin of the Vertebrata.
In conclusion I may quote a passage from Tyndall which we have taken for our motto   The eye has grown for ages toward perfection but ages of perfecting' may still be before it.
 Lankester E. R. Degeneration a Chapter in Darwinism.
Nature series.
London 1880. '
Tyndall Jolin Six Lectures on Light London 1873.
ABEVIEW OF THE AMERICAN SPECIES OF STR01IATEID.S.
BY MORTON W. FORDICE.
In the present paper I have attempted to collect the synonymy of the American species of Stromateidee and to give an analytical key for the identification of the species.
The specimens studied belong to the Museum of Indiana University.
Analysis of American Genera of Stromateidee.
a. Ventrals very rudimentary or absent  preopercle entire  anterior rays of dorsal and anal fins more or less produced  scales very small and thin  caudal peduncle slender not keeled  gillmembranes free from isthmus  caudal fin forked.
Stromateus.
I. aa.
Ventrals present 15 edge of preopercle serrate  anterior rays of dorsal and anal fins not produced  scales rather small firm  gillmembranes free from isthmus  caudal peduncle rather stout not keeled  caudal fin lunate.
Leirus.
II.
I. STROMATEUS.
Stromateus Linnaeus 8yet.
Nat. x 248 1768 fia'ola  paru.
Rhombus Lacepede Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. ii .321 1800 alepidotua.
Chrysostromus Lacepede Hisr.
Nat.
Poiss. iv 97 1800 fiatoloides  fiatola.
Fiatola Risso Eur.
Merid. iii 289 1826 fac'iata.
Feprilus Cuvier Regne Animal 1828 crenulatua.
Seserinus Cuvir  Valenciennes Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. ix 416 pi.
276 18.53 microcktrun.
ForonotUS Gill Cat.
Fith.
East Coast N. A. 1861 35 triacanthuB.
Analysis of American Species of Stromateus.
a. Pelvis ending in a small spine  ventral fins entirely wanting.
b. Dorsal and anal fins falcate  the length of their highest rays greater than that of head  back elevated  body suborbicular  snout vertical  height of body 1 in length  D. Ill 45  A. II 43  vertebra 1317  occipital crest very high its vertical height from supraroccipital bone contained 3 in head Rhombus Lac.
paru.
1. bb.
Dorsal and anal fins little falcate  the length of their highest rays less than head.
c. Region below dorsal fin with a series of pores  outline elliptical  height of body 2 in length  D. Ill 45  A.
Ill 37  vertebrae 1419  occipital crest moderate the height from supraoccipital bone 4 in head Poronotus Gill.
triacanthus.
2. cc.
Region below dorsal fin without conspicuous pores.
d. Form elliptical height of body 2 in length D. Ill 45  A. II 39  vertebrae 14  lt  occipital crest low its height from supraoccipital bone 4 in head.
simillimus.
3. dd.
Form broadovate  height of body lj in length  dorsal with 42 developed rays  anal with 32. medius.
4. aa.
Pelvis not ending in a spine Stromateus  no trace of ventral fins.
e. Upper part of body with numerous round black spots  head 4 depth 2  D. YII 4043  A.
Ill 38. maculatus.
5.
1.
Stromateus paru Faru Brasiliensi congener Sloan Jamaica 2 285 tab.
250 f. 4 1727 Jamaica.
Stromateiis paru Linnaeus Syst.
Nat. ed.
x 248 1758 based on Sloan's description ibid. ed.
xii 487 1766 Jordan  Gilbert Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1882 597 Charleston S. C Jordan  Gilbeit Syn.
Fish.
N. A. 914 1882.
Ghmtodon alepidotus Linnaeus Syst.
Nat. ed.
xii 460 1766 Charleston Gmelin Syst.
Nat. 1240 1788 copied.
Rhombus alepidotus Lacepede Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. ii 321 1800 copied.
Peprilus alepidotus Goode Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1879 112 Fernandiiia Goode  Bean Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1879 130 Pensacola Bean Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1880 92 Beaufort N. C Norfolk.
Stromateus alepidotus Liitken Spolia Atlantica 1880 521  Jordan  Gilbert Syn.
Fish.
N. A. 1882 451  Bean  Dresel Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1884 156 Jamaica Jordan  Gilbert Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1884 Egmont Key.
Sternoptyx gardenii Bloch  Schneider Syst.
Ichth. 494 1801 Carolina.
Stromateus gardenii Giinther Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus. ii 399 1860 New Orleans Jamaica Bahia.
Stromateus longipinnis Mitchill Trans.
Lit.
Phil.
Soc.
New York i 366 1814 New York Bay.
Rhombus longipinnis Cuvier  Valenciennes Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. ix 401 pi.
274 1833 New York Dekay New York Fauna Fish 136 pi.
75 f. 239 1842. 
Seserinus xanthurus Quoy  Gaimard Voy.
Freyc.
Zool. 384 1824.

Rhombus xanthurus Cuvier  Valenciennes Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. ix 405 Brazil.

Bhomhus argentipinnis Cuvier  Valenciennes Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. ix 405 1833 Montevideo.

Rhombus crenulatus Cuvier  Valenciennes Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. ix 410 1833 Cayenne.

Rhombus orbicularis Guichenot Mem.
Soc.
Imp.
So.
Natur.
Cherbourg xii 245 1866 Cayenne.
Habitat.
 New York to Jamaica also probably southward to Brazil.
As Dr. Bean has shown the identity of the northern fish with that found in Jamaica there seems to be no doubt of the propriety of retaining the name paru for this species.
Possibly the South American species xanthurus is different the number of fin rays being given as D. lY 40  A.
Ill 39.
2.
Stromateus triaoanthas.
Stromateus triacanthus Peck Mem.
Amer.
Acad. ii pt.
48 pi.
2 f. 2 1804 New Hampshire Giinther Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus. ii 398 1860 Boston  New York Jordan  Gilbert Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1882 597 Charleston S C Jordan  Gilbert Syn.
Fish.
N. A. 451 1882.
Peprilus triacanthus Storer Fish.
Mass. 60 1839 Massachusetts.
Rhombiis triacanthus Dekay New York Fauna Fish 137 pi.
26 1842 New York Harbor.
Poronotus triacanthus Gill Cat.
Fish.
East Coast N. A. 1861 35  Jordan  Gilbert Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1878 377 Beaufort N. C Bean Proc U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1880 91 Wood's Holl Mass.
 Noank Conn.  Eastport Me.
 Portland Me.
 Norfolk Va.  Tompkinsville N. Y. Banquereau Vineyard Sound  Gloucester Mass..
Stromateus cryptosus Mitchill Trans.
Lit.
Phil.
Soc.
New York i 365 pi.
1 f. 2 1814 New York Bay Cuvier  Valenciennes Hist.
Poiss. ix 408 1833.
Habitat.
 Nova Scotia to Charleston.
The nomenclature of this species offers no difficulties.
The generic name Poronotus proposed for it by Dr. Gill seems unnecessary as the species is evidently very closely related to S. simillimus which lacks the series of pores on which Poronotus was based.
21 On examination of the skeletons of the three species S. paru triacanthus and simillimus I find the first interhsemal greatly developed in each of the species.
The occipital crest is very high in S. paru  it is medium in S. triacanthus and low in S. simillimus.
The haemal and neural spines are more developed in S. paru than in the other species thus corresponding to the form of the body.
The vertebrae in S. triacanthus are somewhat more numerous than in the others as stated in the analytical key.
3.
Stromatens simillimns.
Poronotus simillimus Ayres Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. 1860 84 San Francisco  Cooper Nat.
Wealth Cal. 1868 489.
Stromatevs simillimus Rosa Smith Fish.
San Diego 1880 San Diego  Jordan and Jouy Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1881 13 San Diego  Santa Barbara  Jordan and Gilbert Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1881 46 Entire Pacific Coast common but most abundant from Santa Barbara to San Francisco Bean Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1881 265 name only  Jordan and Gilbert Syn.
Fish.
N. A. 1882 451.
Habitat.
 Puget Sound to San Diego.
This species is common along the Pacific Coast where it replaces S. triacanthus of the Atlantic Coast.
4.
Stromateus medius.
Stromateus mediusTeters Berliner Monatsbericht 1869 707 Mazatlan  Liitken Spolia Atlantica 1880 521  Jordan Proc.
Phila.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. 1883 284 original type.
This species is now only known from the original type in the Museum at Berlin erroneously described by Dr. Peters.
In 1882 numerous specimens were collected at Panama by Prof. C H. Gilbert but all of these have been since destroyed by fire.
5.
Stromatens maculatas.
Stromateus maculatus Cuvier and Valenciennes Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. ix 399 1833 Valparaiso Jenyns Zool.
Beagle Fishes 74 1839 Gay Hist.
Chile Zool. ii 248 Atl.
Ictiol.
lam. 3 bis f. 1 Glinther Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus. ii 398 1860.
Habitat.
 Coast of Chili.
Head  4 in length of body  depth 2  D. VII 43  A.
Ill 39.
Scales in lateral line about 160.
Body ovate compressed  The description of Stromateus maculatus was added by Seth E. Meek who alone is responsible for it.
dorsal and ventral outlines very similar to each other.
Profile evenly convex with curve a little shorter at occiput to snout in front of nostrils where it descends almost vertically.
A slight depression on each side of head above nostrils which makes the profile more trenchant at that place.
Mouth not very small  the tip of maxillary does not quite reach vertical from front of eye  its length about 4 in head.
The teeth of the lower jaw pass just behind those of the upper jaw when the mouth is closed.
Eye small 5 in head.
Pseudobranchiae well developed.
Gillrakers weak and flexible 12 below the angle the longest about  eye.
Preopercle entire.
Branchiostegals 6.
Pelvis not ending in a spine.
No trace of ventral fins.
No pores along the base of dorsal fin.
The soft dorsal and anal fins similar to each other except that the anterior rays of dorsal are correspondingly higher than those of the anal.
The dorsal spines are distant from each other and quite imbedded in the skin.
The first spine is on the vertical above from upper part of gillopening.
Distance of first ray of soft dorsal to tip of snout equals the depth of the body.
Distance from first ray to last ray of soft dorsal is contained 1 in length of body.
Distance of first ray of anal to tip of snout about 2 in length of body.
Base of anal 2 in length of body.
The mucuspores on upper anterior part of head form a sort of irregular network.
A main branch arises a little anterior to upper part of gillopening which sends off branches extending backwards almost straight and parallel to each other.
The greatest width of head 2 in its length  the greatest width of body midway on a line from upper part of gillopening to base of last anal ray 2 in head.
Cheeks and opercles scaly.
Color in alcohol blue above with numerous round dark blue spots about  as large as eye  below silvery.
Below pectorals on anterior half of body aie some irregular blue markings.
Pectorals blue  caudal yellowish with faint bluish shade on tips of its rays.
The pectoral fins are about as long as head.
The above description was taken from a specimen in very good condition from Rio Grande do Sul South America.
The specimen is in the Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
It was originally sent there from the Museum of Comparative Zoology.
Length of specimen 14 inches.
II.
LEIRUS.
Leirus Lowe  Proo.
Zool.
Soc London 1839 82 betmetii  ovalis.
Falinnrus Dekay New York Fauna Fish 118 1842 perciormis.
Criu8 Valenciennes Webb and Berthelot Isles Canar.
Poiss.
bennetti.
Fammelas GUnther Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus. ii 485 1860 perciormu.
Palinuriohtbys Gill Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 186020 pereiormis.
Falimirichthys Bleeker about 1860 perdformis.
Analysis of American Species of Leirus.
a.
Body ovate  the greatest depth 2 in length.
Head 3  D. YIII 20  A.
Ill 16  Lat.
1.
15. perdformis.
1 aa.
Body more elongate its greatest depth 3 in length.
Head 3 D. VIIIIX 2628 A.
Ill 18 Lat.
1.
8090. peruanus.
2.
I follow Jordan and Gilbert in regarding Leirus as a genus distinct from Centrolophus from which it differs chiefly in the differentiation of the dorsal spines and in referring to Leirus the Palinurichthys perdformis of American writers which appears to be a near relative of Leirus ovalis although Dr. Giinther has placed it among the Garangidse.
1.
Leirus peroiformis.
Rudder fish or PercJi eoryphene Mitchill Lit.
Phil.
Soc i pi.
vi f. 7 1814 no description.
Coryphene perdformis Mitcliill Am.
Month.
Mag. ii 244 1818 New York Harbor.
Palinurus perdformis Dekay New York Fauna Fish 118 pi.
xxiv f. 25 1842 Shrewsbury Inlet.
Pammelas perdformis Giinther Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus. ii 485 1860 Coast of New York.
Palinurichthys perdformis Gill Proc.
Phila.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. 1860 20 name only Bean Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1880 91 Wood's HoU Mass.
 Ofif Noman's Land  New York Market  Newport R. I.  Gloucester Mass.
 Fishing banks off coast of Maine.
Lirus perdformis .Jordan and Gilbert.
Syn.
Fish.
N. A. 452 1882.
Trachinotus argenteus Storer Mass.
Rep. 55 1839 Holme's HoU Mass.
 not of Cuvier and Valenciennes.
Habitat.
 Maine to New York.
This species has apparently but a limited range on our Atlantic coast.
It is apparently congeneric with Centrolophus ovalis Cuv.
and Val. the type of Lowe's genus Leirus.
2.
Leiras peruaaus.
Centrolophus peruanus Steindachner Ichthyologische Beitrage i 10 1874 Callao.
Habitat.
 Coast of Peru.
This species is known to me only from Steindachner's description.
017 A BEMABEABLE EXP08TJBE OF COLUMNAB TBAP NEAB OBAVGE NEW JEBSEY.
BY PROFESSOR ANQELO HEILPRIN.
The remarkable exposure of trap near Orange New Jersey to which attention has recently been called by the State Geologist Prof. George H. Cook is in many respects the finest example of geotechnic architecture to be found in the Eastern United States.
Although a true columnar structure is by no means a rarity in this State indeed rather the contrary yet strikingly enough where any extensive exposure of the trap occurs there the columnar structure appears to be in most instances either only partially developed or where developed only of a very indeterminate character.
This is well shown in the case of the Palisades fronting the Hudson River where for the greater part of their extent only an approximation to anything like such structure can be made out.
In the case of the locality presently to be described however which is situated on the face of the first interior ridge trending parallel with the Palisades whose age probably differs but little if at all from that of the Palisades we are presented with the reversed condition of things the columnar structure is here developed not only on a most imposing scale but in all the varied conditions under which such structures appear.
The exposure of O'Rourke's quarry Plate YIII is located some one and a half or two miles back of Orange on the slope of Orange Mountain and consequently in the line of the first trap ridge.
It measures 750 feet in length and 98 feet 2 inches greatest height above the base or working line.
The material quarried worked now for a considerable number of years is the familiar postTriassic 
 trap or  greenstone the material of the Palisades quarries which until recently supplied the city of New York with a great part of the Belgian paving blocks.
That which immediately arrests the attention of the visitor to the quarry is the magnificent display of the columnar structure thousands of basaltic columns of the hexagonal and pentagonal pattern appearing if not in the absolute perfection of the similar columns of the Giant's Causeway and Fingal's Cave in a perfection but very little inferior to these.
The base or lower half of the exposure is made up of a vertical palisade of 120 or more columns measuring individually from 15 to 40 or 42 feet in height and from 3 to 5 feet or even more in thickness.
Towards the middle the height of this palisade has been greatlv reduced partly through the failing of the columns themselves and partly through the artificial destruction that has here been effected.
Above this line which in some parts is sheared off as evenly as though it had been manipulated b' the hand of man the columns suddenly diminish in size and instead of retaining the vertical position now arch diagonally upward and outward meeting from opposite sides to form an apex immediately under the highest point of the exposure.
Many of the columns rest horizontally or nearly so.
Beyond the horizontal layer what may be considered as a third series of columns makes its appearance and here again the vertical position is assumed.
The material of the glacial drift as indicated by a heterogeneous assemblage of pebbles and boulders rests on top forming the subsoil of the region.
The first impression produced upon the casual observer by the complete exhibit is one indicating disturbance  the arched or diagonally inclined and apparently disturbed position of the columns of the upper and inner portion of the mass would seem to imply an upheaving thrust from below just underneath the apex.
In other words it would appear that we were over the seat of some subterranean disturbing force or in the centrum of volcanic action and therefore in the position of a true vent.
But had there been such a thrust as is here implied we should expect to see its effects revealed in a fracture or dislocation below the top whereas none such is apparent.
On the contrary the continuit' of the columnar mass is fully as well marked on top as anywhere else and no indications of special disturbance are anywhere manifest.
We are hence forced to the conclusion that the irregular and apparently disturbed position of the columns is not in reality due to any disturbing agent but is merely the result of peculiar conditions of cooling and solidification of the original molten substance lava.
In other words while some portions of this molten lava  crystallized  into vertical prismatic columns other portions  crystallized  horizontally and in all the intermediate planes lying between the horizontal and vertical.
This irregular method of columnar formation a perfect parallel of which is observed along the River Alignon in the Ardeche was first critically discussed by the late Poulett Scrope who investigated its causes midst the volcanic debris of Central France and clearly determined that it was the result of irregular convection and radiation of heat and consequent irregular solidification.
The deep laers where the loss of heat was effected slowly through conduction with the underlying rock produced stout vertical columns the more superficial layers where radiation was most active frequently produced horizontal columns while between the two were found columns occupying all the intermediate positions.
NOTES ON SOME NEW FOBAMINIFEBA FROM THE NUMMULITIC FORMATION OF FLORIDA.
BY PROFESSOR ANGELO HEILPRIN.
Since the publication of my paper on Nummulites Willcoxi Heilprin Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sciences July 1882  reprinted in my  Contributions to the Tertiary Geology and Paleontology of the United States Phila. 1884 in which the existence of a true Nummulite in the rocks of the North American continent was first indicated I have had the good fortune to have passed under my supervision an extensive series of the Florida nummulitic rock.
In these for which I am indebted to the kindness of Mr. Joseph Willcox of this city I have detected a considerable number of foraminiferal forms which have not hitherto been recognized I believe as occurring in the United States Tertiaries but which are usually present in larger or smaller quantities wherever the nummulitic formation is largely developed.
Among these as coming from Hernando County are the genera Heterostegina.
Sphaeroidina Biloculina 
 Triloculina Quinqueloculiiia and Spiroloculina.
The genus Orbitoides is very abundantly represented in two or more species one of which unmistakably the 0. ephippium 0. sella so distinctive of the Oligocene portion of the European Terrain nummulitique appears preeminent for its lai'ge size.
The great development of this species irrespective of all other evidence would almost be sufficient by itself to determine the age Oligocene of the rock formation in which it occurs.
Associated with these forms are very considerable numbers of the Nummulites Willcoxi and also a second species of the same genus of very much larger size.
In it the whorls expand very rapidly in size and the septa in addition Nummulites to being Comparatively more numerous are considerFioridensM.
y more flcxcd than in the commoner species.
The test measures between onethird and onehalf of an inch in diameter.
I propose naming this species Nummulites Floridensis although I am by no means satisfied that it may not prove to be identical with one of the many closely related forms that have 322 1884. been described from the south of Europe the West India Islands and elsewhere.
Only an actual comparison of specimens can in most instances determine specific identity or variation in the case of this most difficult group of organisms.
Pending the interval which must of necessity intervene before such comparison can be made I have deemed it the safer plan to describe and name the species subject to revision.
A new locality for Nummulites Willcoxi has been found by Mr. Willcox situated Nummnlites Willcoxi.
1.
Natural size  2.
Enlarged some fifteen milcs to the northeast of the locality on the Cheeshowiska River whence the species was originally obtained.
Here the rock masses containing the fossils lie in situ and at an elevation of not less than 150 feet above the sea.
The existence of a true nummulitic basement formation in the State of Florida is thus placed beyond question and doubtless the same will be found to have a very considerable extension inward.
No specimens of the Operculina rotella  Operculina complanata f have been detected in this newer series of rock fragments.
The following annual reports were read and referred to the Publication Committee   REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY.
The Recording Secretary respectfully reports that during the year ending November 80 1884 thirtytwo members and twentytwo correspondents have been elected.
Resignations of membership have been received and accepted on the usual conditions from J. Henry Simes and John Shallcross.
The deaths of eleven members.
and six correspondents have been announced.
As these have been duly recorded in the Proceedings under the date of announcement the names are not here repeated.
Thirty three papers have been presented for publication as follows  N. A. Randolph 2  Miss S. G. Foulke 2  David S. Jordan 2  Angelo Heilprin 2  Theo.
Gill 2  Seth E. Meek and Robert Newland 2  Seth E. Meek and David K. Goss 2  Seth E. Meek 1  Seth E. Meek and Martin L. Hoffman 1  Andrew J. Parker 1  Benjamin Sharp 1  Joseph Swaim and Seth E. Meek 1  Rev.
H. C. McCook 1  Thomas Meehan 1  Otto Meyer 1  Rafael Arango 1  Eugene N. S. Ringueberg 1  Jos.
Willcox 1  Edw.
Potts 1  Henry J. Carter 1  Frederick D. Chester 1  D. G. Brinton 1  Henry F. Osborn 1  Herman Strecker 1  Asa Gray land F. Lamson Scribner 1.
These have all been printed in the Proceedings.
One hundred and twentyeight pages of the Proceedings for 1888 and two hundred and sixtyfour pages of the volume for 1884 have been printed and distributed the latter being illustrated by six plates.
Eightyfive pages of the Journal have also been published completing the first part of the ninth volume.
These pages contain the conclusion of A. J. Garrett's paper on Society Island Mollusca illustrated by two lithographic plates containing one hundred and fiftytwo figures and a valuable paper by Professor Heilprin on the Tertiary Geology of the Eastern and Southern United States illustrated by a colored map.
The Publication Committee has recently been compelled by lack of means to decline a contribution to the Journal of a valuable paper notwithstanding the fact that a series of beautiful illustrative plates were offered free of expense except for printing.
Twentytwo foreign societies have been added to the exchange list making now a total of 335 societies and journals to which the numbers of the Proceedings are sent by mail as they are issued.
Fiftytwo of these receive also the Journal.
Letters applying for deficiencies and proposing exchange of publications as noted in the report of the Librarian have been productive of the most gratifying returns.
The average attendance at the meetings during the year has been twentyseven.
Verbal communications have been made by twentysix members  they have been for the most part published in the Proceedings.
The most important event in the history of the Academy during the past year was the passage of an amendment to the charter by means of which the Society is empowered to hold a larger annual income than heretofore.
The preliminary step to the securing of such an amendment was taken by the meeting held December 4 1883 when the following preamble and resolutions were adopted by a unanimous vote   Whereas The limit of the yearly income of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia fixed by the charter at eight thousand dollars is in the opinion of the members insuflScient for the necessary requirements of the corporation therefore  Resolved That the officers of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia be and they are hereby authorized and empowered and requested to petition in due form the proper Court in Philadelphia under the Act of Assembly of Pennsylvania entitled An Act to provide for the incorporation and regulation of certain corporations approved the 29th day of April A. D. 1874 to so amend the charter of said corporation as to enable the Academy to hold a much larger income as follows to wit By striking out in the proviso to Section I of said Charter after the word  income the following words   of such estate shall not exceed eight thousand dollars nor and insert in lieu thereof the following words  from the real estate shall not exceed twenty thousand dollars  nor shall the income of the corporation   so that the proviso to said Section I as amended shall read as follows  '' Provided That the annual income from the real estate shall not exceed twentj thousand dollars  nor shall the income of the corporation be applied to any other purpose than those for which this corporation is formed.
After the required foimalities had been complied with the consent of the Court to the amendment applied for was announced to the Academy at the meeting held January 22 1884 and at the following meeting the thanks of the society were tendered by resolution to Mr. Uselma C. Smith its solicitor for his services in securing such action.
Chapter I Article 6 and Chapter XVI Article 4 of the ByLaws were amended by the meeting held October 28 as reported at length under that date on page 261 of the Proceedings.
On January 29 resolutions providing for an increase of the building fund of the Academy were adopted and on February 19 a committee consisting of Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger Dr. Chas.
Schaffer Mr. Geo.
W. Trj'on Jr. Prof. Angelo Heilprin and Dr. Horace F. Jayne with power to increase the number was appointed to carry the resolutions into effect.
Resolutions expressive of the Academy's interest in biological instruction and urging the desirability of the endowment of biological professorships in connection with the Society were adopted February 26.
At the meeting held March 18 a communication from Dr. William Pepper proposing the establishment of a Biological Institute to be under the joint control of the University of Pennsylvania and the Academy was referred to the Council for consideration and report.
While the subject was still under consideration and before the Academy was called upon to take definite action upon it a letter was received from Dr. Pepper acknowledging on behalf of the Trustees of the University the courtesy with which their former communication had been received but expressing the belief that  it is for the present at least wiser for the University to pursue independently the development of the special field of biological work and teaching devolving upon her.
Further consideration of the desirability of the proposed joint government was thereupon suspended and the operations of the Academy's Committee on Instruction were carried on independently as set forth in the reports of the several professors herewith presented.
Dr. Benjamin Sharp was elected Professor of Invertebrate Zoology January 29 and delivered his inaugural lecture on February 3.
Dr. D. G. Brinton was elected Professor of Ethnology and Archaeology February 26 and opened his course in a lecture delivered before the Academy April 4.
The resignation of Dr. J. Gibbons Hunt as Professor of Microscopic Technology was received and accepted May 2T.
His successor has not yet been appointed.
At the meeting of the Council held November 24 Mr. Jacob Binder was appointed Curator of the Wm.
S. Vaux Collections to serve in compliance with the Articles of Agreement during the ensuing twelve months.
Mr. Binder accepted the position and declined receiving a compensation for his services.
A resolution expressive of the Academy's appreciation of Mr. Binder's efficient discharge of the duties of his position during the past year was adopted by the meeting held November 25.
During the meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science held in September the museum and library of the Academy were visited by many of the attending members and by representatives of the British Association.
The Academy is to be congratulated on having been able to add materially to the interest of the important occasion both by the extent of its library and museum and the receptions and excursions given under the auspices of its Botanical and Biological and Microscopical Sections.
The generous support given by the citizens of Philadelphia to the Local Committee in its endeavor to provide fittingly for the meeting referred to is an encouraging indication of an intelligent interest in science and consequently in the welfare of the Academy and kindred institutions.
All of which is respectfully submitted Edw.
J. Nolan Recording Secretary.
REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY.
The duties of the Corresponding Secretary as defined by our laws show very little variety from year to year.
It is however gratifying to note that the number of societies with which we are in correspondence shows a notable increase.
The transmission of our publications by mail begun last 3'ear places us in closer relation with foreign societies  many of them have agreed toreciprocate while a few prefer the old method of transmission for reasons which have been read at various times.
It being the duty of the Corresponding Secretary to acknowledge all gifts to the Museum the usual circulars have been signed and the Curatorincharge to whom tlie addresses are generally known has sent them to the donors.
A full account of the donations will appear in the Curator's report.
During the year ending November 30 there have been twentytwo correspondents elected to all of whom notification has been promptly forwarded and excepting to those very recently elected the diploma has also been sent.
Of the correspondents elected during the present and past jear seventeen have acknowledged their election many having at the same time transmitted valuable publications.
Official notification has been received of the death of Joachim Barrande Quintino Sella and Sven Nilsson correspondents.
While the number of letters from societies etc. does not indicate the entire number receiving our publications it may be interesting to note that nineteen are from societies libraries etc. in North America and Mexico two from South America and fiftythree from the Eastern Hemisphere.
The entire number of letters announcing the receipt of our publications during the year is one hundred and nineteen.
Letters of transmission with which foreign societies usually accompany their publications have diminished during the year owing probably to the transmission of the publications by mail.
These letters number fortyfour.
The activity of our Librarian in endeavoring to supply deficiencies in our library usually induces a corresponding demand on us from our corresponding societies.
Letters of this character are noted to the number of nine.
Letters of a miscellaneous nature  in response to our invitation to exchange by mail regarding deficiencies for which we have applied announcing anniversary festivities  have been received from foreign societies numbering nineteen.
In addition to the above a considerable number of trivial letters have been received and where necessar'' replied to mostly entirel' unimportant and often of a purely personal nature.
Respectfully submitted Geo.
H. Horn M. D. Corresponding Secretary.
328 1884.
REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN.
During the twelve months ending November 30 1884 3422 additions have been made to the library' an increase of 419 over the growth of 1883.
These additions have consisted of 480 volumes 2760 pamphlets and parts of periodicals and 182 maps sheets photographs etc.
They have been derived from the following sources   Societies 1356 Editors 866 I. V. Williamson Fund .
.
520 Authors 280 Dr. G. E. Abbot 145 Wilson Fund 37 Department of the Interior .
29 Geological Survey of India .
19 Geological Survey of Sweden 17 Russian Geological Commission 16 Dr. F. V. Hayden .... 15 Northern Transcontinental Survey 14 Geoldgical Survey of Belgium 12 Geological Survey of Kentucky 10 Min ster of Public Works France 8 Department of Agriculture .
8 H. B. M. Government ... 8 Treasury Department ... 7 Prof. Angelo Heilprin ... 6 Second Geological Survey of Pennsylvania 6 Dr. R. J. Dunglison ... 5 Geological Survey of Canada 4  H. Redfield 4 Engineer Department U. S. A. U. S. Fish Commission .
.
Navy Department .... Geological Survey of New Zealand War Department .... Trustees of British Museum .
Smithsonian Institution .
.
Ex.
of Wm.
S. Vaux .
.
.
Commissioners of Inland Fisheries F. G. Schaupp East Indian Government .
.
Geological Survey of Roumania Census Commission of Buenos A'res W. H. Dougherty .... Depaitment of Mines Nova Scotia Royal College of Surgeons .
Justin Winsor Trustees of Indian Museum .
Brazilian Museum .... Dr. A. E. Foote Chas.
E. Smith J The departments of the library to which these additions were distiibuted and the proportions of such distribution are as follows   Journals 2382 Geology 250 Anthropology 166 General Natural History .
.
103 Conchology 82 Botany 55 Anatomy and Physiology .
.
53 Entomology 51 Med cine 45 Chemistry .
40 Physical Science 23 Ornithology 21 Helminthology 20 Education 20 Voyages and Travels ... 14 Mammalogy 13 Agriculture 12 Encyclopedias 12 Bibliography 12 Ichthyology 11 Mineralogy 10 Geography 3 History 1 Miscellaneous 23 In consequence of the necessary curtailment of appropriations no binding has been done during the year.
It is to be hoped that a permanent Binding Fund may be soon placed at the disposal of the Library Committee.
While the estimate for binding is properly enough one of the first to be curtailed when expenses have to be reduced yet our rapidly increasing sets of journals and the many valuable illustrated books which reach us in parts as issued are in danger of being injured or rendered incomplete while used in the unbound form.
The card catalogue of periodicals has been completed and will be transcribed in the form of a hand catalogue for the greater convenience of those consulting this perhaps the most important department of the library.
Occasion was taken as the catalogue progressed to make careful memoranda of deficiencies.
243 letters have been written applying for lacking parts and volumes of incomplete sets of journals now in our possession and 59 proposing exchange with societies the publications of which are not represented on our shelves at all.
The responses to these letters have been of such a satisfactory character as to account perhaps entirel' for the excess of additions over the number reported at the last annual meeting.
In recording the completion of the important work noted it gives me pleasure to acknowledge the efficient service of Mr. Emanuele Fronani of whose assistance I have again been enabled to avail myself during the summer months.
The catalogue of the library may be now said for the first time in many jears to be complete.
Care is of course taken to add the titles of accessions immediatel on their presentation.
The portrait of the late Dr. Robert Bridges which was approaching completion when my last report was presented has been placed in its proper position in the gallery of Presidents and is considered an unusually satisfactory likeness.
The Academy is indebted for it to Messrs. Geo.
W. Tryon Jr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger Thos.
Meehan Jos.
P. Hazard J. H. Redfield Jacob Binder C. S. Bement Harrison Allen John Ashhurst Jr. Edw.
S. Whelen Chas.
Schaeffer Aubrey H. Smith John S. Haines Samuel Lewis Geo.
H. Horn John Welsh Chas.
E. Smith Jos.
Wharton Isaac Lea and George Vaux.
In view of the amount of work accomplished and the results thereof the past year in this department of the Academy may be regarded as an uriusually prosperous one.
All of which is respectfully submitted Edw.
J. Nolan 22 Librarian.
REPORT OF THE CURATORS.
The Curators present the following statement of the Curatorincharge Professor Angelo Heilprin as their report for the year ending November 30  Work in the various departments of the Museum has during the past year as in previous years been largely of a volunteer nature but for this reason none the less systematic nor less valuable to the Academy.
The Conchological Entomological and Botanical departments under direct control of the Conchological Entomological and Botanical Sections of the Academy have benefited almost exclusively from services of this kind and the same is true of the Mineralogical department covered bj' the Wm.
S. Yaux trust.
The Academy feels itself under deep obligation to the special conservators who have so generously contributed their time and labor to the interests of the institution.
In departments other than those here indicated work has not been neglected but unfortunately because of the limited means at the disposal of the Curators and for general want of space which together constitute an almost insuperable obstacle to the proper care and exposition of the vast and still rapidly increasing collections of the institution not so much has been accomplished as might have been desired.
The entire series of alcoholics has been carefully overhauled and the necessary disposition of alcohol toward the preservation of these perishable objects made.
The collection may be said to be in a fairly good condition.
The recent mammalia have all been redetermined and relabeled and arranged according to the most approved S3'stems of classification.
In this .
department the Academy is seriously deficient and it is to be hoped that at no very distant day the numerous gaps that everywhere occur may be filled in.
A complete catalogue has been prepared showing the Academy to possess just 400 species and varieties represented in all by 904 specimens.
In the department of Ornithology comparatively little has been accomplished  the accessions have been very limited as indeed they have been for a number of years past.
Although the collection of birds still ranks as one of the most complete and in some respects the most complete of any in the world following immediately after the collections of the British Museum the National Museum of Vienna and the University of Leyden it has of recent years attracted but few students or specialists to its cases a deplorable condition doubtless due in great part to imperfect arrangement incident to the want of a special curator and the circumstance of the 85000 or more specimens being mounted instead of in the far more serviceable form of skins.
The absolute necessity of having a specialist whose services should meet with fit pecuniary compensation in this as in all other departments cannot be too strongly insisted upon.
Long neglect of a department means practically its collapse at least so far as the advantages to be derived from it by special students are concerned and unless it can be adequately supported must ultimately by its occupancy of space and the use of time in its preservation become a drag rather than a spur to the institution of which it forms a part.
Despite the general richness of the ornithological collection it has through want of adequate means for its support suffered to such an extent that at the present time it lacks no less than about 170 species or varieties of North American birds alone I The Conchological department on the other hand which has for two decades enjoyed a constant supervision from the part of a distinguished conchologist is singularly complete and both in the number and variety of its forms stands unsurpassed by any similar collection whether in this country or Europe.
It comprises no less than 150000 specimens mounted on upwards of 42000 tablets and it alone of all the various departments represents the actual state of a zoological science as we now know it.
During the year a selection of birds from the general collection has been laid aside to complete a special collection illustrative of North American ornithology.
The work of rearranging and classifying the geological and paleontological specimens has made considerable progress.
The  local collection intended for the illustration of the natural products of the States of Pennsylvania and New Jersey is as far as the resources of the general collection woujd permit complete except in the department of entomology for which no suitable cases have as yet been provided.
A cabinet of the minerals belonging to the same geographical area has recently been placed in the Museum for the benefit of students.
It is intended to further complete this department by a serial exposition of the rock masses about Philadelphia and by the preparation of a relief map illustrative of the geology of the city and its immediate surroundings.
The work of labeling and mounting the Wm.
S. Yaux collection of minerals comprising upwards of 6412 specimens has been completed  a report of progress in this department prepared by the special Curator Mr. Jacob Binder is herewith appended.
One of the most striking accessions made to the Museum during the past year is the collection of insect and aranead architecture deposited by one of the YicePresidents of the Academy Dr. H. C. McCook.
It is doubtless the most complete of its kind in this country and may be considered to be in many respects unique.
A valuable collection of fishes from the southern and western waters of the TJ.
S. made by Prof. D. S. Jordan and Mr. Seth E. Meek has been added to the Ichthyological department.
Various alterations have been made during the current year in the ground floor of the Academy building but these require no special consideration.
Specimens from the Museum have been loaned for study to the Smithsonian Institution to Prof. James Hall of Albany Prof. R. P. Whitfield of New York Prof. W. B. Scott of Princeton and Mr. Dobson of London who have severally rendered service to the Academy by the redetermination or description of the forms that passed through their hands.
The Academy has during the year benefited through the services of five Jessup Fund beneficiaries who apart from their studies have in various ways cooperated with or assisted the Curatorincharge who hereby acknowledges his thanks.
The Curatorincharge also takes this opportunitj of acknowledging his special indebtedness to Mr. Alan F. Gentry who during the greater part of the year has most efficiently acted as his assistant.
Very respectfully Angelo Heilprin Guratorincharge A. N. S. Joseph Leidt Chairman Board of Curators.
SUMMARY OF THE REPORT OF WM.
C. HENSZEY TREASURER For the Year ending Nov. 30 1884.
Cr.
Salaries Janitors etc 3319 93 Freight 42 70 Repairs 271 71 Insurance 55 00 Coal 551 00 Printing and Binding Proceedings 838 59 Mounting Plants 4 40 Printing and Stationery 114 42 Vials 6 00 Plates and Engravings 378 00 Postage 158 94 Water Rents 28 35 Newspaper Reports 70 00 Gas Ill 92 Books 276 79 Miscellaneous 472 38 A. Heilprin Receipts Committee of Instruction 64 00 H. C. Lewis Receipts Committee of Instruction 235 00 Uselma C. Smith Solicitor Expenses securing Amendment to Charter Acad.
Nat.
Sciences 25 10 G. D. Camden Professional fee Opinion in regard to lands in Tyler Co. W. Va 50 00 Instruction and Lecture Fund transferred to this Fund.
150 00 Life Memberships transferred to Life Membership Fund 500 00 7724 33 Dr. To Balance from last account  226 59  Initiation Fees 290 00  Contributions semiannual contributions 1602 48 ' Life Memberships 500 00  Admissions to Museum 368 35  Sale of Guide to Museum 30 00  Publication Committee 617 92 .Fees Lectures on Palaeontology 64 00     Mineralogy 235 00  Miscellaneous 32 17  Interest from Mortgage investment Joshua T.Jeanes' Legacy 1000 00  Wilson Fund.
Towards Salary of Librarian 300 00  Publication Fund.
Interest on Investments 355 00  Barton Fund. 
  240 00 '' Life Membership Fund.
  165 00  Maintenance Fund. 
  155 00  Eckfeldt Fund. 
  125 00  Stott Legacy Fund. 
  100 00  Interest on Money awaiting Investment 79 28 6485 79 Balance overdrawn General Account 1238 44 THOMAS B. WILSON LIBRARY FUND.
By Balance per last statement 222 55 For Books 279 73 Transferred to General Account toward Salary of Librarian 3C0 00 802 28 Income from Investments 525 00 Balance overdrawn 277 28 LIFE MEMBERSHIP FUND.
For Maintenance.
Balance per last Statement  500 00 Interest on Investments 165 00 Life Memberships transferred to thisaccount 500 00 1165 00 Transferred to General Account 165 00 X To Balance for Investment 1000 00 BARTON FUND.
For Printing and Illustrating Publications. 
Interest on Investments  240 00 Transferred to Geneial Account 240 00 JESSUP FUND.
For Support of Students.
Balance per last Statement  595 01 Interest on Investments 560 00 1155 01 Disbursed 535 00 Balance... 620 01 MAINTENANCE FUND.
Balance per last Statement  8 14 Interest on Investments 155 00 Thos.
P. Cope deceased.
Legacy 1000 00 R. G. Curtin M. D. Subscription... 5' 00 1168 14 Transferre4 to General Account  155 00 To Balance for Investment 1013 14 PUBLICATION FUND.
Income from Investments  355 00 Transferred to General Account 355 00 ECKFELDT FUND.
Income from Investments  125 00 Transferred to General Account 125 00 I. Y. WILLIAMSON LIBRARY FUND.
Balance per last Statement  770 41 Rents Collec'ed 1000 00 Groundrents Collected 936 53 Cash received.
Principal of yearly groundrent for 530 Dollars.
E.S.
LinjioSt. 170 feet north of Dickinson St. 875 00 Four Months' Interest on same 17 50 892 55 3599 44 For Books 1116 66 Taxes and Waterrents 195 51 Repairs to Properties 95 82 Collecting  96 80 1504 79 Balance 2094 60 875.00 of the above Balance is to be reinvested INSTRUCTION AND LECTURE FUND.
Balance per last Statement  56 00 Transferred from General Account 150 00 6 00 Disbursements 63 30 Balance 142 70 MUSEUM FUND.
Interest on Investments  50 00 Disbursements for Minerals etc 45 00 Balance 5 00 VAUX FUND.
Balance per last Statement 428 84 Income from Investments 650 00 Sale of Cabinet 50 00 1128 84 Minerals 272 71 Cases 222 40 Book 8 00 Models 65 00 Cards 2 75 Furniture etc. for Room 80 68 651 54 Balance  477 30 Mrs. STOTT FUND.
Income fi'om Investment 100 00 Transferred to General Account 100 00 BOOK ACCOUNT.
Jos.
Jeanes' Donation.
Balance as per last Statement 37 13 REPORT OF THE CURATOR OF THE WILLIAM S. VAUX COLLECTIONS.
The Curator of the William S. Vaux collections respectfully reports to the Council of the Academy of Natural Sciences   The arrangement and labeling of the minerals are now complete each of the groups having labels indicating the chemical properties the proportions in which the elements combine the degree of hardness and specific gravity of each of the species.
They are arranged in thirtysix horizontal and five upright cases.
One of the upright cases has been made use of for the purpose of illustrating the six systems of crystallography  the forms of crystallization and the structure of crj'stals being demonstrated by typical specimens of minerals belonging to each system and by six glass models having the axial lines represented by threads of different color.
In this case will also be found minerals representing the relative degrees of hardness.
The Archgeological collection has been entirely rearranged.
All implements such as axes celts chisels gouges arrowheads pipes pottery etc. belonging to the same locality being placed together.
This method was suggested by Professor Putnam of Cambridge and Professor Brinton of our own Academy and is thought to have advantages for ethnological study.
By this method the McBride collection which is considered of undoubted authenticity has been placed in the Ohio group.
The localities represented are Ohio Indiana Illinois Michigan Pennsylvania New Jersey New York Massachusetts Connecticut Maine Virginia North and South Carolina Geoi'gia Florida Alabama Mississippi Arkansas Texas Missouri Wisconsin California and the Pacific Coast together with Mexico Costa Rica Peru Switzerland Denmark and Sweden.
There are also a few Roman Carthagenian and Egyptian specimens.
They number in all 2940 pieces.
An alphabetical catalogue of the mineral collection has been made indicating the page and number in Dana and the case containing the particular specimen.
In m' report of November 1883 the number of minerals was counted by trays notwithstanding many of them contained more than one specimen.
I am informed that this is not the practice in other museums either in this country or in Europe nor does this method do justice to the collection.
The same may be said with regard to the Archaeological part.
The present method is based on the actual number of specimens without regard to the number of trays and is as follows   Mineral specimens .... 6391 Crystallographic models .... 6 Models of historical diamonds .
.
15 6412 representing about 500 species.
It may be of interest to members of the Academj'to know the whole number of minerals contained in the Museum of the Academy though not strictly in the line of this report  with the assistance of Mr. W. W. Jefferis the specimens were counted as follows   Mineral specimens Academy proper .
.
9633 Lithological specimens Academy proper .
.
1301 Total  .
10934 W. S. Vaux collection .
.
.
.
.
6412 Total 17346 It will be remembered that according to terms of the agreement upon which this collection was accepted by the Academy all specimens purchased from the fund provided for increase were subject to the approval of the Curators of the Academy in conjunction with the Curator of the collection.
In making purchases such specimens only have been bought  1.
As represent new species.
2.
Species not represented in the collection.
3.
Species representing new localities.
4.
Such as are superior in character to those already in the collection.
Sixty specimens have been purchased during the year 1884 as follows   Minerals 32 Indian relics 1 Crystallographic models ... 6 Historical diamond models  .
.15 The collection has been visited by a large number of persons during the past year many of them professional mineralogists especially during the recent meeting of the American and British Association for the Advancement of Science.
I have been much gratified to hear expressions of admiration of the collection many of the specimens being pronounced unique in their character and not represented in the museums of Europe.
In conclusion I embrace the opportunity of thanking those of my friends who have expressed a warm interest in my work and have aided me with valuable suggestions.
I take the liberty of making special mention of Dr. Leidy Mr. W. W. Jefferis Clarence S. Bement and Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger.
Yery respectfully submitted Jacob Binder Curator.
REPORT OF THE MICROSCOPICAL AND BIOLOGICAL SECTION.
During the past year eighteen stated meetings and one public exhibition were held.
The average attendance of members was about fifteen.
At the exhibition given in September to the visiting members of the American Association for the Advancement of Science a very large audience was present and the display of microscopes and objects excelled all previous ones both in number and in scientific importance.
During the year.
Dr. N. A. Randolph Dr. Benjamin Sharp and Joseph Mellor were elected members.
Edward S. Campbell Hugo Bilgrim and Sara Gwendolen Poulke were announced as contributors.
 Dr. J. H. Simes and Prof. H. C. Lewis resigned membership.
Dr. Robert E. Rogers died.
Among the more important contributions b' members during the year were   A lecture December IT 1883 by Dr. M. B. Hartzell.
Subject  The Bacteria.
February 4 1884 by Dr. Benjamin Sharp.
Subject  Section Cutting.
March 11 by Mr. W. N. Lockington.
Subject The Fishes of North America and the West Coast.
April 21 by Dr. Sharp.
Subject The Eye of the Invertebrates.
May 5 by Dr. J. G. Hunt.
Subject  Fertilization in Some Plants.
May 9 by Dr. Hunt.
Subject The Bioplasm of the Cell.
June 2 by Dr. Geo.
A. Rex.
Subject  The Myxomycetes of Fairmount Park.
Respectfully submitted RoBT.
J. Hess M.D. Recorder.
REPORT OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION.
The Recorder of the Conchological Section respectfully reports that during the past year the Academy has as heretofore continued to publish such papers upon the subject of the Mollusca as have been approved by its Publication Committee.
One member and seven correspondents have been elected.
We have no deaths to report  neither has there been any change made in the ByLaws governing the Section.
From the eighteenth annual report of Mr. Geo.
W. Tryon Jr. Conservator we find that during the year ending December 1 1884 sixty donations of mollusks and shells have been received from thirtyone persons.
The number of trays and labels thus added to the collection is 1126 of specimens 5224  larger accessions in both cases than for several previous years.
The Conchological Museum now contains 42448 trays and written tablets with 151015 specimens.
The most important accession of the year is a remarkably fine suite of shells collected last winter by Mr. Henrj' Hemphill on the West Coast of Florida.
Most of the specimens are in much finer condition than those previously in our Museum from the same region  manj' of them hitherto known as West Indian are now first ascertained to inhabit our coast and not a few are new species.
During the last summer at the instance of Mr Wm.
G. Binney Mr. Hemphill explored the mountains of North Carolina for Helices collecting a number of rare and fine specimens of which by Mr. Binney's generosity we have obtained a share.
This winter Mr. Hemphill is again spending on the Florida Coast southward of his last year's operations and arrangements have been made by which we shall receive a series of his collections.
A very complete suite of the shells of our national capital were presented by Mr. F. Lehnert.
Three donations of foreign shells are of unusual interest namely  From E. Marie a series of the shells of the island of Guadeloupe W. I.  from Andrew Garrett eightj'four species of land shells of the Society Islands including all the types figured in his paper on this molluscan province recently published by the Academy  from Dr. S. Archer and the Conchological Section over three hundred species of marine shells collected by Dr. Archer at Singapore.
Another box just received from Dr. Archer contents not yet presented will bring up our representation of the Singapore mollusks to upwards of five hundred species.
A detailed list of the additions to the Museum accompanies this report see Curator's report.
The rearrangement of the Conchological Museum steadily progresses.
During the year the Pleurotomidse Terebridae and Cancellariidse of the marine gastropods have been carefully studied and to a considerable extent relabeled and mounted.
A commencement has also been made with the series of Pulmonata by the rearrangement of the Testacellidse Oleacinidae and Streptaxidse.
Our Museum cases have become so overcrowded that the display of all the species under glass is no longer possible  in many instances the trays of specimens are piled up several tiers in height so that the under rows cannot be seen.
Unless better and more ample accommodation for the shell collection is soon provided it may become necessary to withdraw portions of it from exhibition in order to afford space for the display of the larger and more important specimens.
At the annual meeting of the Section held on the 4th inst. the following officers were elected   Director .
.
.
.
W. S. W. Ruschenberger.
ViceDirector .
.
.
John Ford.
Recorder .
.
.
.
S. Raymond Roberts.
Secretary .... John H. Redfield.
Treasurer .... Wm.
L. Mactier.
Conservator .... George W. Tryon Jr.
Librarian .... Edward J. Nolan.
Respectfully submitted on behalf of the Section S. Raymond Roberts Becorder.
REPORT OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION.
During the jear 1884 the Entomological Section has held its regular monthly meetings dispensing as usual with those of July and August.
The attendance has been fair but by no means so large as is desirable.
It was found that several members had been prevented from attending the Section owing to other engagements.
To remedy this and with a hope that the change would be beneficial by accommodating more persons the Section at its meeting held December 8 voted to change the time of meeting from the second Friday night to the fourth Monday night of each month commencing January 1885.
The failure to secure additions to the membership has been very discouraging to the members of the Section and it is earnestly hoped that the members of the Academy will assist in increasing the number.
The collections under the supervision of the Section are at present in quite good condition.
Much work has been done in the way of disinfecting and arranging the specimens.
In an entomological cabinet this requires constant watchfulness and cannot be dispensed with.
The thanks of the Section are due to Mr. S. F. Aaron for much of this work.
Additions to the collection during the past year have been quite small.
This has been principally owing to the fact that those members generally most active in collecting have been compelled by other more pressing calls to defer such work to the future.
In connection with the American Entomological Society there have been published during the year articles upon Entomology amounting to 335 pages of printed matter together with 9 plates.
In addition there has been printed a biographical sketch of John L. Le Conte M. D. late Director of the Section written by S. H. Scudder also posthumous papers of the same gentleman edited by Dr. Geo.
H. Horn comprising in all 68 pages making a total of 403 printed pages.
These entomological contributions continue to maintain the high standard of the journal in which they appear.
At the meeting held December 8 the following were elected officers of the Section for the year 1885   Director ViceDirector Recorder Treasurer .
Conservator .
Geo.
H. Horn M.D.
 Rev.
Henry C. McCook D. D. .
James H. Ridings.
.
E. T. Cresson.
.
Henry Skinner M. D. Respectfully submitted James H Ridings Becorder.
REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION.
The ViceDirector of the Botanical Section has to report to the Academy that the affairs of the Section are in a generally prosperous condition.
Our Herbarium already one of which the Academy is justly proud has been increased in new species 407 the past year without including the additions among the lower cryptogams.
The excellent progress made in other matters under the superintendence of the Conservator Mr. John H. Redfield is set forth in detail in his annual report to the Section which is submitted herewith as part of the Section's report.
Meetings have been held regularly every month except July and August the average attendance for the whole year being slightly larger than last.
The Section is free from debt and has a considerable balance in its treasury.
One of the events of the year was the social reunion and entertainment in the hall of the Academy of the botanists in attendance on the meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science under the auspices of the Section.
The expense was borne by the members of the Section without any draft on its regular funds or on the funds of the Local Committee of the Association.
It is believed that the result will be useful to the Academy in making the work of the botanical department better known reacting in the interest of botany everywhere.
At the meetings of the Section many matters of interest to botanists have been presented and some by Professor Gray Professor Rothrock and Messrs. Meehan and Scribner deemed of sufficient general importance to appear in the Proceedings of the Academy.
The officei's elected for the ensuing year are   Director .
.
.
Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger.
ViceDirector .
.
Thomas Meehan.
Recorder .
.
.
F. Lamson Scribner.
Cor.
Secretary  j  Martindale.
Treasurer  Conservator .
.
.
John H. Redfield.
Respectfully submitted Thomas Meehan ViceDirector.
Conservator'' s Report for 188.
 The Conservator has during the past year continued to direct his attention to the care and improvement of the Academy's Herbarium so far as was compatible with the demands on his time and labor occasioned by receiving preparing and placing new accessions.
With some assistance from Mr. Scribner certain portions of the North American Herbarium have been mounted mainly of genera more especially needing this care such as Viola Polygala Lupinus Dalea Astragalus Oxytropis Potentilla Eriogonum and others.
Mr. Burk is now engaged in the work of rearranging the North American Compositse after Gray's New Synoptical Flora.
In the General Herbarium the provisional alphabetical lists of species have been carried forward as far as Loranthaceas.
These lists imperfect and defective as they are will justify the labor expended upon them by the time saved to every one consulting the Herbarium.
It is hoped that this merely preliminary work will soon be completed and prepare the way for more deliberate and careful elaboration by expert botanists.
During the latter part of the summer our work had to be temporarily suspended by the necessary preparations for receiving the members of the American Association for the Advancement of Science at its September meeting in this city and the gratification expressed by them on the visits to the Academy's library and herbarium for the fraternal fellowship extended by our Section is a source of satisfaction to us all.
The donations of plants during the past year amount to 3183 species of which 407 are new to our collection.
In these donations are included three Centuries of Ellis' North American Fungi of which a large proportion are probably new to us and should be added to the above 407.
The North American species received have been 1792 from tropical America were 3 and from the old world 1388.
Among the additions may be specified 1057 species mostly European and North African from the fine Herbarium of Geo.
Curling Joad presented by Dr. Gray.
Though the most of these duplicated species which we already possessed yet being choice specimens collected and ticketed by eminent botanists they greatly add to the value of our working material while about onetenth of them were previously unrepresented on our shelves.
Our fellowmember Mr Canby who it will be remembered was in charge of the Botanical Department of the Northern Transcontinental Survey during the years 1882 and 1883 in the interest of the Northern Pacific R. R. has contributed a very valuable suite of the collections made by himself and by Scribner Brandegee Tweedy and others under his direction along the northern border of Western North America in the Territories of Dakota Montana and Washington.
This series comprehends 851 distinct species of which about 90 were new to us.
Our ViceDirector Mr. Meehanhas also given us the result of his herborizations along the coast of Washington and Alaska Territories during the summer of 1883 in a collection of 207 species which however add only five species to our earlier Alaskan collections received from Kellogg Harrington Dall and others.
Other smaller but valuable donations will be detailed in the Academy's Donation List for 1 884.
In large collections where constant accessions during a long period of years have repeatedly duplicated species there is always a tendency to exaggerated estimates of the number of species represented.
In regard to the Academy's Herbarium the estimates have been so vague and so evidentl' excessive that the Conservator has been led to undertake an actual enumeration.
This apparently simple task is really attended with many diflBculties one of which consists in the varying views of botanists as to the specific validity of forms.
In some families this diversity of opinion is so great as to materially affect total results.
In such cases the Conservator has endeavored to follow the authority of the latest leading specialists.
Another difficulty arises from the large amount of un worked and unnamed material which has accumulated since the early days of the Academy some of it probably duplicating the named species.
The enumeration is not yet complete but as it covers about threefourths of the collection a tolerably fair estimate may be made of the remainder on the basis of space occupied.
The conclusion is that the phanerogamic species will not exceed 24000.
To these we must add the ferns  1018 by count and the remaining vascular crygtogams estimated at 120 species and we have a total of phanerogams and vascular cryptogams of a little more than 25000 species.
Of the extent of the collection of lower cryptogams embracing mosses liverworts lichens algae and fungi the Conservator is at present unable to give any estimate.
Respectfully submitted John H. Redfield Conservator.
REPORT OF THE MINERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL SECTION.
The meetings of the Section have been held regularly during the year but the attendance has not been as large as formerly.
There have been however satisfactory additions to the collections of minerals and rocks in part by purchases made with the funds of the Section.
Respectfully submitted Theo.
D. Rand Director.
REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INYERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY.
The Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology respectfully reports that during the year he has delivered a course of lectures on paleontology and physiography which course as in previous years was attended in principal part by teachers from the various schools of the city.
A special course of lectures on geology arranged by request of the Teachers' Institute of Philadelphia was delivered before the members of that body with an attendance ranging from one to two hundred.
Six field excursions em28 bracing points of interest in tlie neigliborhood of the cit and extending to the terminal moraine on the line of the Delaware and Lackawanna Railroad in New Jersey and the  mountain colonnades  of Orange were participated in by a fair proportion of the class.
The condition of the collections of the Academy in the department of paleontology has been materially improved during the year a complete rearrangement of the fossils of this country  having been effected.
The work of identifying and labeling has made considerable progress and it is hoped that in a short time proper attention may be given to the rich collections illustrating European paleontology as well.
The additions during the year which are recorded elsewhere have been neither very numerous nor important.
A fine series of Oligocene fossils from Germany comprising nearl 200 species has been obtained from Dr. Otto Meyer in exchange for American Tertiary forms.
The Academy is also indebted to Mr. Joseph Willcox for an extensive series of the Nummulitic rock of Florida.
Very respectfully Angelo Heilprin ProfesHor of Invertebrate Paleontology.
REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF MINERALOGY.
The Professor of Mineralogy respectfully reports that during the spring months of 1884 he delivered a course of twenty lectures upon the Geology and Mineralogy of Eastern Pennsylvania.
The alternate lectures were given in the open air and consisted of studies in the field at localities of geological and mineralogical interest in the vicinity of Philadelphia.
At the close of the course a more extended excursion was taken to Mauch Chunk Hazleton and Drifton where through the kindness of friends unusual facilities were offered for studying the geological structure and the methods of mining anthracite coal.
A description of the field lectures as reported in a daily newspaper is herewith presented.
The average attendance was nearly forty persons of whom more than onehalf were ladies.
The mineralogical collection of the Academy as shown in the accompanying Curator's report has received a number of valuable additions.
The placing of the minerals of Pennsylvania in a special case will it is believed not only be a convenience to visitors but as it becomes more complete will stimulate a search for new mineral localities.
The mineralogists of the State are particularly asked to contribute to this local collection.
As in previous annual reports attention is again called to the need in this department of scientific apparatus both for the purposes of teaching and for the prosecution of original research.
A lithological microscope a reflecting goniometer and a Groth's universal apparatus for polarized light are among the instruments most urgently needed.
Respectfully submitted H. Carvill Lewis Professor of Mineralogy .
REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY.
The Professor of Invertebrate Zoology respectfully reports that during the past year since March when he was placed in office he has delivered his inaugural address on  The Study of Biology in Germany  March 10 and six lectures on  Elementary Histology with demonstrations.
He further reports that the collections under his charge have greatly increased especially by the addition of a superb collection of marine sponges from the western coast of Florida presented by Mr. Joseph Willcox.
The collection was described by Henry J. Carter in the Proceedings.
A course of some twenty lectures is intended to be given in the early part of the coming year January February and March the subject being  Some of the Principles of Zoology.
Very respectfully Benjamin Sharp Professor of Invertebrate Zoology.
REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF ETHNOLOGY AND ARCHEOLOGY.
A short course of lectures on some points in general ethnology was delivered by me immediately after my appointment as professor in April last.
The subjects were   Prehistoric Man in America.
The Origin of the Arj'an Nations.
The Progress of American Linguistics.
The Civilization of Ancient Mexico and Peru.
These lectures were public and were reasonably well attended.
After the organization of the Bureau of Scientific Information had been established I forwarded a circular to a considerable number of persons interested in my branch in different parts of the United States announcing both the professorship and the Bureau and asking them to favor the Academy with such specimens and information as would be of advantage to instruction in this department.
A number of promises to do so have been received.
There has been but small increase in the collections in my department since I took charge of it.
The arrangement of the cabinet leaves much to be desired but I see no remedy for this unless considerably more space were at my disposal and I am well aware that the Academy is unable at present to supply this.
I can obtain  for deposit  with the Academy several very fine local collections of antiquities were suflEicient space for their proper display and the usual guarantees of conservation offered their owners.
Very respectfully D. G. Brinton M. D. Professor of Ethnology and Archaeology.
1884.
349 The election of OflScers for 1885 was held with the following result   President VicePresidents Recording Secretary Corresponding Secretary Treasurer Librarian Curators Councillors to serve three years .... Finance Committee Joseph Leidy M. D. Thomas Meehan Rev.
Henry C. McCook D. D. Edward J. Nolan M. D. George H. Horn M. D. Wm.
C. Henszey.
Edward J. Nolan M. D. Joseph Leidy M. D. Jacob Binder W. S. W. Ruschenberger M. D. Angelo Heilprin.
Chas.
P. Perot J. H. Redfleld S. Fisher Corlies Charles Morris.
Isaac C. Martindale Clarence S. Bement Aubrey H. Smith S. Fisher Corlies George Y. Shoemaker.
