ON THE STRUCTURE AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE MESOZOIC Mammalia
by dr. henry f. osborn.
Abstract.
This paper is an outline of the writer's observations upon the structure of the British Mesozoic Mammals and a classification of the Mesozoic Mammals in general in view of their relationship to each other and to recent orders.
When Professor Owen completed his Memoir' in 1871 there were but twenty genera of preTertiary Mammals known to science.
Discoveries in the Mesozoic strata of Germany South Africa and North America have now increased this number to over forty genera five of which are from the Upper Triassic the remainder from the upper and lower Jurassic and one from the Cretaceous.
 Successors of the Mesozoic mammals have been discovered at the bottom of the American Eocene and in the lower French Eocene Beds.'
Among the latter are mammals which clearly connect upper Triassic with Quatei'nary genera.''
Through the kindness of the members of the Geological Department of the British Museum I was recently enabled to study the British types very carefully and enjoying soon afterwards an examination of the fine collections of Professor Marsh and Professor Cope' I have been able to compare the type specimens of all the Mesozoic mammals with the exception of four genera.
The most striking result of this comparison is the 1.
Monograph of tlie Fossil Mammalia of the Mesozoic Formations Palaeontographical Society 1871.
2.
Triglyphiis discovered by Prof. Fraas in the Rhaetic Beds near Stuttgart.
3.
Tritylodon from the .Stormberg Beds Upper Triassic South Africa.
4.
Numerous genera discovered by Prof. Marsh in the Allantosaurus Beds parallel with the English Purbeck.
o. Meniscocssus described b Professor Cope from the Laramie Beds.
.
I refer to Professor Cope's genera Poytnaslodoit Chirox and Ptilodus
7.
The Plagiatilax group discovered by Dr. Lemoine at Rheims.
8.
Alicrolesles and 9 Thylacoleoz.xxm.QOi by the intermediate Plagiaulacidae
.
This assistance will be more fully acknowledged elsewhere.
I am especially indebted to Mr. Richard I.ydekker for much alualle assistance.
11.
Stereognathiis Ainpkilestes Tnglyphw Aic7 olesies aittiquzis Wnrnget type specimen.
Full acknowledgtment will be made later of the use made of the valuable suggestions of Professor Owen and other writers.
close structural similarity between genera from widely separate localities and the absence of types which are wholly distinct from the British even in this greatly extended field of exploration.
In other words tlie Mesozoic genera appear to have had a very wide geographical distribution and many scattered forms while generically distinct are closely connected by family and ordinal characters.
The second result which has been attained much more slowly is that these mammals with a few exceptions can now be provisionally classified as they fall into small groups with carnivorous omnivorous insectivorous and herbivorous dentition each with clearly marked characters.
The third result which rests upon more debatable grounds is that while many of these Mesozoic families became extinct in succeeding geological periods many others belong in or near the ancestral lines of families still existing among the Marsupials and Insectivores.
Before entering the subject of classification I will give a brief resume of my observations upon the British genera in so far as they differ from or are additional to those of Professor Owen.
It appears from the dentition of a mandibular ramus belonging to Amphitherium which has been recently added to the British Museum collection that three distinct genera have hitherto been included under this genus which may be separated by the number of premolars by the conformation of the molar crowns and the form and positions of the condyle as Amphitherium Amphitylus and Aviphilestes 2 PhasGolotherium.
The formula is i 4 c 1 pm m 7.
It seems more probable that this genus has lost its premolars which formerly may have filled the diastema than that they should all have become molariform a modification which is always slowly acquired.
3 Triconodon
The upper canine of this genus has a double fang.
The most interesting fact brought out is the evidence the various specimens furnish of relationship to the Marsupials in the succession of the teeth.
 The fully adult molar formula is pm 4 m 4.
The fourth 1.
The Amphitherium A. Prevostii molar is bicuspidate with a low posterior heel.
The Amphitylus gen. nov. molar has three blunt cusps and an internal cingulum form 6 w 6.
The Amphilestes molar has three prominent cusps and a pronounced cingulum encircling the crown  pm 5 m 6.
After a personal examination of the types Mr. Lydekker writes me April 16th that he finds the formulae of both Amphilestes and Amphitylus as follows  i  c pm m 7.
2 Assisted by Mr. Lydekker I have confirmed the suggestions of Professor Owen and Professor Flower.
premolar early replaces a violariform milk tooth di and the fourth true molar is very late in coming in.
Trlacanthodon is thus a synonym of Triconodon
4 Phascolestes.
There is no doubt that this genus is distinct from Peralestes but it is a question whether the type mandible does not belong to a genus near Stylodon.
Form i 4 c 1 pm 4 m 8.
5 Leptodadus is widely separate from Stylodon.
 Its molars Avith single recurved cusps and elevated heels are whollj unique.
The postcanine formula was probably pm 4 m 6.
6 Peramus is also widely separated from other genera in its dental formula pm 6 m o all other polyprotodont genera of this period having four or more molars.
The teeth in the type of this genu3 are seen upon the outer surface only.
It is probable that when the niner surface is known the formula will be modified to pm 4 m 5.
7 In the genus Spalacothermm the molars and premolars are well differentiated the formula is i 
2 c 1 pm 4 m 6.
8 PeralesteS probably has a closely related form in Peraspalax in fact the generic distinctness of the latter is doubtful.
The postcanine formulae are Peralestes pm 5 m G Peraspalax pm 4 m 7.
9 The maxilla which was referred to the genus Stylodon by Professor Owen must be removed to a distinct genus Athrodon characterized by the compact position and peculiar wearing pattern of the crowns.
10 The maxillary formula of Bolodon is found to be i 
2 c 0 pm 3 m 4.
The characters of these teeth are clearly shown in the accompanying cut.
Leaving out of view for the present all consideration of relar tionships to recent forms we find that the Mesozoic Mammalia divide into two larger groups.
In the first group I one of the incisors is greatly developed at the expense of the others and of the canine there is a diastema varying in width in front of the first premolar and the true molars are invariably characterized by two or more anteroposterior rows of tubercles separated by longitudinal valleys or grooves.
For this group we may adopt the suborder Midtituherculata proposed by Professor Cope. The second group II does not show such close internal relationship among its members as does the foregoing but is well separated from it by such characters as the following The incisors are numerous and subequal in size the canines are 3.
Professor Owen separated this eiuis doubtfully from Peralestes.
4.
Professor Owen placed it doubtfully near this genus.
5.
.merican Naturalist lSS1 p. 687.
1887.
285 large there is usually no diastema the premolarmolar series are usually in excess of the typical number and the molars are cusped rather than tubercular.
If we were sure of the marsupial relationship of the members of this group Ave might place them with the suborder Polijprotodonta but some of the included families belong near the Insectivora.
.
Multituberculata.
1 Plagiaulacidce.
This is probably the oldest family of this group and is well characterized by the laterally compressed trenchant premolars.
The molars of Microlestes antiquus of Plieninger are essentially similar to those of Plagiaidax.
The M. Moorei molars cannot be distinguished generically from those of Plagiaulax. The least specialized Plagiaidax is Ctenacodon Marsh. The modifications in this family are well known as witnessed in the series Plagiaidax PtilodusJSfeoplagiaidax.
ve pnar Fig.
1.
Right Maxilla of Bolodon.
2 Bolodontidce.
This fiimily includes Bolodon and Allodon Marsh. The premolars are not trenchant.
The molars have two straight rows of conical tubercles separated by a longitudinal valley.
Although allied to the Plagiaidacidce we cannot place these genera in this family because the molar pattern is essentially different.
6.
The molars of A.
Antiqiiiis M. Moorei aiul P. Minor in each case show a closely similar disposition of the tubercles.
1.
Am.
Journ.
So.
and Arts Nov. 1879 p. 238.
2.
This genus is very close to Bolodon in all the details of tooth structure but shows the alveolus of a small median incisor which may be wanting in Bolodon.
Allodon has been placed in the Plagiaulacidaeby Professor Marsh Am.
Journ.
Sc.
and Arts April 1887 p. 329.
Bolodon has conical tubercular instead of trenchant 2reniolars.
In Plagiaulax the tubercles are irregular crenatious of the border of the basin shaped crown.
In Bolodon they are minute shai'ply defined cones arranged in straight rows with a deeply worn groove between them  this pattern is like that of Tritylodon with two rows of tubercles instead of three.
The general likeness between Bolodon and Tritylodon is very striking in spite of the great discrepancy in size.
The latter genus is perhaps synonymous with Tiifjfbjphus Fraas and forms the type of the family 3 Tritylodontidae Cope characterized by the absence of trenchant premolars and the presence of upper molars with three parallel rows of tubercles separated by grooves.
The Poly mastodo7itidce Cope forms a fourth more recent family The position of Stereognathus Chirox and Meniscoessus is uncertain although they probably belong to this SubOrder.
Meniscoessus stands nearest the Plagiaulacidaeand Chirox intermediate between the Bolodontidae and Tritylodontidae.
II.
Second Group.
1.
JURASSIC MAMMALS.
Among the second group of mammals I find that the molar pattern forms an advantageous starting point for classification.
Contrary to the usual statement the premolars are invariably unlike the molars' but the whole dental series as well as the mandible are in a marked degree correlative in structure and in most instances distinctly specialized for certain kinds of diet.
Some of the molar patterns with the correlated structures prevail in a number of genera which we may group in a family without knowing exactly where to place it in the zoological scale.
The molars of other genera are transitional in structure between two distinct types.
Other genera again are entirely isolated in their molar structure where no allied forms have been discovered.
This classification by families is of course a temporary one subject to change as the genera become more fully known.
The Stylo do ntidae form the only fidly defined family.
4.
See Neuniayr.
Neucs Jahrhucli fiir Min.
u. Pal.
1884 p. 279.
1.
Am.
Naturalist 18S4.
2.
Phascolotherium forms an apparent Init not real exception since the premolars have probably disappeared.
In Diplocynodon Marsh loc.
cit.
Plate x the premolars when viewed upon the inner surface are very distinct from the molars.
The chief molar types which characterize families are as follows  A.
Without opposition of cusps.
1 With three stout erect cusps in line.
2 Transitional.
With three cusps not in line two being rotated inwards.
3 With three slender divergent cusps in line.
B.
With completely opposed cusps sejoarated by a longitudinal valley.
4 C. With completely oppOsed cusps connected by transverse ridges.
5 Molars with a single styloid cusp on one side of the crown connected by divergent ridges with a pair of cusps on the other side.
D. Without cusps.
6 The crowns columnar with a smooth wearing surface.
By a careful study of the dentition and mandibular structure we iind that these families unite in small groups which are in early stages of differentiation along certain lines of functional adaptation.
These lines are not sharply defined but by a comparison of the typical forms with the most nearly allied genera of known adaptation I find we may divide these subgroups into carnivorous omnivorous insectivorous and herbivorous series  employing these terms in a broad sense as indicating an initial rather than an advanced specialization of structure.
Carnivorous SubGroup.
There are many points of resemblance between the following three families although at first sight they differ widely.
They mostly embrace the largest genera and the teeth are generally adapted to a carnivorous diet especially in the first and second families in the third there is an apparent divergence towards another type of dentition and function.
The molars have a strong internal cingulum.
The premolars have basal cusps.
The condyle is low and the coronoid broad.
A.
1 Triconodonidic The typical genus of this family is Triconodonsyn.
Triacanthodon Owen Priacodon Marsh.
The dentition is now fully known.
There is no diastema.
The premolars have strong basal cu.sps.
The canines and the incisors are erect and powerful.
The mandible is strong and the condyle is below the molar level.
These characters and the likeness to Thylacinus show that this was a carnivorous animal.
An older and much less specialized but probably allied form was Amphilestes.
Amphitylus appears to be related by the character of its molars but separated by its mandibular characters as the condyle is high and pedunculate.
1.
Proposed by Professor Marsh.
Amphitheri'um on the other hand is allied by the structure of the Fig.
2.
Portion of the right mandi'ole of Amphilherium.
mandible and separated by the pattern of the molars which lack the third cusp.
The last two genera are somewhat isolated.
la An allied family is the Phascolotheridae embracing Phascolother'mm and Tlnodon in which there is a diastema behind the canine  true premolars are few or wanting' and the mandibular angle is represented merely by the inflection of the lower border.
The molars are like those of the Triconodonidae except that the anterior and posterior cusps are smaller and are slightly rotated inwards.
2 Spalacotheridae .
Tliis family embraces Spalacotherium and Menacodon.
Tlie mandible is without a distinct angle like that in Phascolotherium but shallower and with a more elevated condyle.
There is no diastema.
The incisors and canines are somewhat similar to those of Trlconodou.
The premolars have strong anterior and posterior basal cusps.
The anterior and posterior cusps of the molars are strongly rotated inwards.
Omnivorous SubGroup.
B.
The families embraced in this division are quite closely interrelated both as regards their dentition and diet.
The genera vary from middle to large size.
The typical forms Peralestidae were probably omnivorous.
The incisors are not known the canines are large and erect the premolars have prominent basal cusps.
Instead of an internal cingulum the lower molars have a more or less prominent internal row of low cusps.
The condyle is usually on or below the molar level.
2.
This name is preferable to Tinoiiontidne recently proposed by Professor Marsh since Prof. Owen's genus is much the best known.
It is quite probable that the Phascolotheridae will be subsequently united with the Tticotiodontidae linked by intermediate forms with premolars.
3.
The postcanine teetli of Tinodon have not as yet been fully described.
.
This family name was proposed by Professor Marsh loc.
cit.
p. 340.
The 4 Peralestidae embrace Peralestes and Peraspalax wliich are closely related if not synonymous.
The lower premolars have distinct basal cups.
The inner and outer molar cusps instead of being united by a ridge as in the last are separated by a longitudinal valley.
The upper molars Peralestes have a lofty internal and several low external cusps while the lower molars Peraspalax have a high external and low internal cusps.
The canines are strong.
The lower molars are somewhat simpler but resemble those of Dasyurus and Didelphys.
I infer that like these modern marsupials these animals were omnivorous.
The lower molars of the higlily specialized genus Paurodon the type of the Paurodontidae Marsh although fewer in number are quite similar to those oi' Peraspalax and suggest an affiliation of these two families.
The Diplocynodontidae Mai'sh embrace Diplocynodon Docodon and Eiineodon.
The molars are transitional illustrating the extension of the internal cingulum into a broad shelf leading towards a complete opposition of cusps such as we observe in Peraspalax but it is as yet uncertain whether this family is affiliated to the Peralestidae.
This family probably embraces Professor Owen's genus Peramus in which the molar and mandibular structure is similar to that of Diplocynodon.
Insectivorous SubGroup.
The two following families differ widely from those preceding.
The genera vary from an extremely small to middle size.
The teeth are adapted to an insectivorous diet the incisors in the most typical forms being procumbent and spatulate the canines small the premolars lack distinct basal cusps the last is lofty and pointed.
The molars have no cingulum.
The condyle is high and the coronoid slender.
The formula is usually m 4 m 8.
The families are separated by the structure of the molars. 3 Amhlotheridae.
This embraces the genera Aehyrodon and Amb lather i'um.
The mandible is very slender and tapers to the symphysis with a high condyle.
The incisors are semiprocumbent and spatulate the canines small the last premolars very lofty 2.
Amblotherium and Aehyrodon are represented by mandibles seen upon the inner surface only.
In the matrix impressions there is no evidence of outer cusps but the teeth closely resemble those of the Stylodontidae as seen upon the inner surface and these families may prove to be the same.
290 1887. and without basal cusps Avliile the molars have no internal cingula and no opposition of cusps.
C. 5 Stylodo7itidae Thanks to the discoveries of Professor Marsh this fiimily is now very fully represented and the molar structure is well understood.
It embraces Stylodon Stylacodon' Aesthenodon Laodon and Dryolestes which is very similar to the genus Phascolestes Owen.
There is little doubt therefore that the latter genus belongs here rather than near Peralestes.
The resemblance of Stylodon to Chrysochloris observed by Professor Owen is very much strengthened by this extended knowledge of the Stylodon molars and indicates that this family was insectivorous.
The structure of the mandible is very similar to that of Amblotlierium.
Herbivorous SubGroup.
D. The single family embraced in this division is widely separated from all which precede it.
The structure of the molars indicates an herbivorous diet similar to that of the Rodents and the Wombats.
6 Athrodontidae.
Athrodon is unique in its dentition among the Mesozoic mammals.
The tall trihedral crowns are closely applied at their sides thus falling into a curve.
The inner face is styloid while the outer is grooved and the triangular wearing surface is traversed by a faint median ridge thus I'esembling one half the crown of a Phascolomys molar.
The last premolar is transforming into a molar the others are small.
The canine is large and bifanged.
The genus Leptodadus is isolated.
Fig.
3.
Tlie inner surface of the left maxilla of Athiodon.
1.
This family name was sutjjgested by Professor Marsh in 1880 to embrace Stylodon and Stylacodon.
It is probably equivalent to the Dryolestidae more recently proposed by the same author.
2.
These gener.i appear to be the same.
3.
Gen. Nov.
Type maxilla of Stylodon piisillus Owen.
TRIASSIC MAMMALS.
Droviatherkivi is widely aberrant and is the most reptilian in appearance of all the Mesozoic genera.
Professor Marsh has proposed the family Dromatheridae to embrace this genus but without defining it.
Uniting it with Microconodon the family may be characterized by the imperfect division of the fangs of the molars and the wide diastema behind the canine.
The reptilian Theromorph condition of the molar fangs may be found to separate these genera still more widely from the Jurassic forms so as to represent a new order of mammals the Protodonta.
Conclusion.
It is now generally admitted that many of the genera embraced in the MultituberGulata were Marsupials and on many grounds it is safe to place this group as a SubOrder of the Marsupialia.
Are the Jurassic members of the second group also to be placed in this order or do they form a distinct order by themselves
Professor Marsh in his recent view of the Mesozoic mammals has held the latter view.
It is however impossible to find a single common character or set of chaiacters for these genera which is of ordinal value.
On the other hand there are many grounds for placing the Triconodonidae Peralestidae and Athrodontidae and their affiliated families in or near the ancestral lines of the modern Dasyuridae and Phascoloniidae respectively while the Stylodontidae are similarly related to the Chrysochloridae.
These grounds may be partially stated.
What holds good of one genus is naturally true of all the genera which are clearly allied to it.
1 Triconodonhas one more premolar but otherwise resembles Thylacinus both in the structure of the mandible and in the form and succession of the teeth.
2 Perasmlax although much more imperfectly known is allied to Dasyurus in its molar structure.
3 Athrodon although diflfering from Phascolomys in the possession of a lai'ge canine shows a marked resemblance to this genus in the molar structure.
We may designate the allied carnivorous omnivorous and herbivorous subgroups as protoMarsupialia a suborder distinguished by the almost invariable presence of four premolars a number unknown among modern Marsupials.
1.
The mylohyoid groove is universally present but is also found in Myrmecoiitts.
In the Amhlotheridae and Stylodontidae Ave probably have a line of Insectivora.
4 Dryolestes has a molar pattern which is not observed in any marsupial but is seen in Chrysochloris among the Insectivora.
Since however it is common for marsupials to mimic the dentition of other orders this relationship must be held with some reserve.
1887.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
293 July 12.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
Nine persons present.
July 19.
Mr. Thomas Meehan VicePresident in the chair.
Nine persons present.
August 2.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
Eight persons present.
August 9.
Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Eleven persons present.
The Publication Committee reported in favor of publishing a paper entitled On the Structure and Classification of Mesozoic Mammalia by Henry F. Osborn in the Journal of the Academy.
On an Aquatic Larva and its Case The following from Miss Adele M. Fielde dated Svvatow China April 25 1887 was read Daring last January I found on the level surface of the coarse sand which covers the bottom of an aqueduct near here under an inch or two of clear running water little structures resembling a gray net spread to catch fish or a tiny cave wilh a gauze awning stretched over the entrance.
The arches had a span of from an eighth to a half an inch and always opened toward the current They were to be seen in scores with a butti'ess of coarse sand in the rear and a minute aperture in the floor.
The force of the stream had in a few cases swept away the buttress leaving the arch of gauze with gray filaments streaming from its torn hinder edge.
The occupant of the wee grotto was in every case a caterpillar not more than fiveeighths of an inch long.
It burrowed in the sand of of the floor stretched its head fortli vertically and fed upon what had been caught in the delicate roof of its den.
Its head and the three thoracic segments each of which bore a pair of four jointed legs ending in two hooks were of a glossy brown while the following eight segments were either gray or green and the terminal segment translucent white.
The terminal segment bore two cylindrical prongs each ending in a tuft of hairs and having underneath a brown claw like those on all the feet.
Eight segments beginning with the metathoracic and ending with the third from the last bore on the ventral surface two tufts of white tracheal gills which issued from the body in a single stem and then branched irregularly in several fingershaped processes in such fashion as to give the effect of four longitudinal rows of gills along the ventral side.
This small cavedweller seems to be near akin to those found by Miss C. H. Clarke in Stony Creek Mass.
and described by her in a Description of two interesting houses made by caddisfly larvae in the Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History May 24 1882.
It is also similar to a species of Hydropsyclie previously described by Dr. Mliller in Southern Brazil.
From hektograph copies sent to me by Miss Clarke of drawings made by Dr. Miiller I conclude that some free floating larva houses vaseshaped translucent less than a quarter of an inch long and with four creuulated floats found by me here at Swatow are identical with the Lagenopsyclie Spiroffyrce found by Dr. Miiller in Southern Brazil.
It seems that these minute Hydroptilidse inhabiting different continents continue to have their cradles precisely alike.
August 16.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
Nine persons present.
A paper entitled On the Homologies and Early History of the Limbs of Vertebrates By John A. Ryder was presented for publication.
August 23.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
Nine persons present.
The deaths of the following were reported Prof S. F. Baird a member Aug. 19 1887 Nathaniel Archer Randolph M.D. a member Aug. 21 1887 Ezra Michener M.D. a correspondent June 24 1887 and H. W. Ravenel a correspondent June 17 1887.
August 30.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
Fourteen persons present.
Mr. Harold Wingate was elected a member.
The following was ordered to be printed 
