A NEW FOSSIL SPIDER.
Eoatypus WOODWARDII.
BY HENRY C. MCCOOK D. 1.
While visiting the Bi'itish Museum of Xatural History at South Kensington London in the summer of 1887 1 was permitted to examine some fossil insects and fossil spiders thereiti contained under the kind direction of Dr. Henry Woodward the Keeper of the Geological Department.
Among the aranead fossils I observed one which appeared to me to be new to science and closely related to the genus Atypus
The fossil is a tolerably well preserved impression taken from the Eocene Tertiary at Garnet Bay Isle of Wight.
After my return to America Dr. Woodward sent me casts both in wax and plaster from which the appended description has been made.
These impressions somewhat shook the view which I was at first inclined to take as to the systematic place of the specimen.
But on the whole I am inclined to adhere though with some qualification to my original judgment.
The only hesitation that an araueologist Avould feel in placing the species would be as to whether it belongs with the Saltigrades or jumping spiders among the Attida perhaps or with the Territelaria
among the Atypiua Those who have examined fossils of insects and other small arthropods especially of the order Aranese will understand the difficulty in determining with absolute accuracy their generic and specific rank and will therefore not be surrised at this hesitation concerning the above named specimen.
The shape of the cephalothorax to some extent especially as viewed from the original fossil in the British Museum and more particularly the character of the falces as noted in a side view of the specimen shown at Fig.
1 indicate that the fossil may belong to the family Atypinae and be closely related to Aiypus.
The name Eocdypns Woochvardii is therefore suggested for the species.
If this inference is correct we may possibly have in this new fossil the distant progenitor of the present British species of Atypustypuspiceus.
Order Araneae
Family ATYPINAE.
Eoatypus Xov.
Gen. Eoatypus Woodwardii.
The total length of body including mandibles is 8 mm.
 length of abdomen 4 mm  length of cephalothorax 3 mm.
 of mandibles 1888.
201 1 m.  width of abdomen at the base 35 mm.
 width of abdomen at the apex 175  width of the eephalothorax at the caput 225  width of cephalothorax from margin to margin across the middle 35 mm.
 length of palps 2 mm.
Both palps are represented by rather thin lines showing slight marks of joints and on one palp is a suggestion of a terminal bilb which might indicate it to be a young male.
The caput and median part of the cephalothorax as viewed from the cast are well elevated and defined  the cephalothorax narrows towards the abdomen.
But in the original imjjression in the rock Fig.
2.
Eoaiypus Woodwardii x 4 Outline side view of body.
I K. 1 i o   .run X 1 and less distinctly on the casts there aipear outlines on either side of the margin of the cephalothorax as though by pressure those parts had been flattened and only the caput and a part of the dorsum of the cephalothorax along the median line had withstood the pressure and had been pushed upward into the matrix by the same.
These outlines are visible but not as distinct in the plaster cast.
It is at this point that one experiences difficulty in determining whether the specimen is related to Attus or Atypus
If the broader marginal markings are impressions of the original cephalothorax the inference would be that the spider represented by this fossil belonged to the Atypinae.
That such is the case I am strongly inclined to believe both on the ground just named and the characteristics of the mandibles as well as the general facies of the impression and cast.
See Fig.
1.
 In the absence of the characteristic eyes and long jointed superior spinners it would be impossible to relegate the specimen to the genus Atypusith absolute authority.
 This figure has been drawn from the cast and compared carefully with one kindly made for me in the Geological Department of the British Museum and furnished by the Keeper Dr. Woodward 14 Neither would one be Avarrauted to characterize a new genus by the absence of eyes and spinners since these organs were doubtless present but have simply failed to impress themselves upon the matrix.
I have therefore felt compelled on the one hand to propose a new generic place for this fossil and on the other to present no sharply defined generic characteristics.
Indeed it must be admitted that besides expressing the general facies of the fossil as above described the generic value of the name Eoatypns consists largely in assigning the specimen rank as a fossil spider.
On one side portions of all the four legs are preserved the first three showing the articulations at the trochanter femur and patella..
The second leg shows also the patella entire indicating the articulation with the metatarsus.
On the other side a portion of the femur of the first leg is shown with the patella and its articulations.
Both hind legs are represented by the apical parts of the femora.
The horizon from which this new fossil was obtained is that from which most European fossil spiders have been taken viz. the Eocene Tertiary.
It is also that from which have come our American aranead fossils as recently studied by Mr. S. H. Scudder from specimenscollected at Florissant Colorado.
NESTING HABITS OF THE AMERICAN PURSEWEB SPIDER.i BY REV.
HENRY C. MCCOOK D. D. Genus Atypus
Atypusbbotii AValck.
1792.
Purse Web Spider Abbot.
Mss.
drawings of Georgia Insects Vol.
xiv PI.
8 No.
36 Zool.
Lib.
Brit.
Mas.
Nat.
Hist.
1837.
Sphodros Abbotii Walk.
His.
Nat.
des Ins.
Apt.
Vol.
i p. 247.
1842.
Atypusiger Hentz.
Jour.
Bost Soc.
Nat.
Hist.
Vol.
iv p. 224 p. 2 viii.
1875.
Atypusiger Hentz Spid.
of the U. S. p. 19 PI.
ii fig.
1.
During a visit to Florida in April 1886 I had the pleasure of observing in natural site for the first time the nests of Abbot's Atypusn aranead heretofore known as the black Atypusr Atypusiger of Hentz.
I had possessed for a number of years specimens of the long tubes in which this creatuie dwells  concerning Avhich I only knew that they were reported as being spun along the outside of the trunks of trees.
I. GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION.
The field of observation was on the plantation of Dr. William Wittfeld at the lower part of Merrit's Island which is situated between the Indian and Banana Rivers a few miles south of Cape Canaveral.
A large number of specimens were collected some of which are submitted for insjection.
The species is distributed widely throughout the state of Florida is found in Georgia and probably in the Southern Atlantic States.
The female of this Atypusas not heretofore been described although it has recently come to light that it was known and figured nearly a century ago by Mr. John Abbot an Englishman settled in Savannah Georgia during the latter part of the last century   The substance of this paper was given as a verbal communication before the last meeting 1887 of the British Association for the Advancement of Science at Manchester England.
 I had Floridian examples of the nest from Professor Riley the Entomologist of the Agriculture Bureau and also from Dr. George Marx of Washington.
 Fairyland Georgiana Brevard Co. Fla.  See the author's paper in Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1888 p. 74 on Necessity for Revising the Nomenclature of American Orbweaving Spiders.
Among Mr. Abbot's figures is one of this Atypushich he quite happily describes as the purse web spider a popuhxr name which I cordially adopt and makes a brief and correct note of its habits.
This singular species he says makes a web like a money purse to the roots of large trees in the hammocks or swamps five or six inches out of the ground fastened to the tree and the other end in the ground about the same depth or deeper.
To the bottom of that part in the ground the spider retreats.
I imagine they come out and seek their food by night as I never observed one out of its web.
In November their young ones in vast numbers cover the abdomen of the female and the abdomen then appears very much shrunk.
The male is the smallest but has the longest nippers.
Taken in March and is not common.
 The description of Hentz  was made from a single specimen a male found in June on newly turned soil at North     ampton Mass.
Mr. AVilliam Holden reports it as collected in Ohio. The spider ought therefore to be found in the Middle and Atlantic States of America but I have never been so fortunate as to see it therein and have never heard of any one who happened Fig.
1.
Atypuspon it.
It probablv is not abundant or its nesting habits must be greatly modified by change of latitude  otherwise one would suppose that its very conspicuous nest would not have escaped notice.
Or may we suppose that it is disappearing perhaps has disappeared before the progress of human civilization 
II.
DESCEIPTIOX OF THE NESTS.
The Florida nests are silken tubes of various lengths and sizes ranging from ten inches long and threefourths inch in diameter to minute silken pipes a few inches long and about oneeighth inch in diameter.
Externally most of them present a dark weather beaten appearance and are covered with more or less sand.
Inside the silk is white and clean.
The texture of the material of which the nest is spun is quite close resembling a roughfinished bit of silk cloth.
1 Manuscript Drawings of the insects of Georgia in America by John Abbot of Savannah.
Vol.
xiv 1792.
Zoological Librarjof the British Museum of Natural History.
2 Spiders of the United States p. 19.
Plate ii. fig.
1.
Hentz knew nothing of the habits of his species.
3 Id.
Emerson's note.
1888.
205 These tubes are found attached to the trunks of trees alons which they extend upwards for various distancesjaccording to their size the size being evidently determined by the age of the occupant.
The young spiders have very small tubes.
Tlie adults occupy lae tubes.
The nests are fastened to the bark of the trees at several points ly white threads.
They are often open at the top that is there is no designed closure like a lid or door  but for the most part  the top edge of the tube drops in or folds over making an accidental closure.
Beneath the surface of the ground the tubes extend into the sandy soil around the root of the tree for various distances sometimes equalling the length above the surface and in one or two cases even exceeding it.
The spider seems to have no preference for any special tree against which to spin its tubes.
The palmetto was frequently chosen and I counted as many as thirteen tubes great and small long and short extending around a large portion of the base of one Fig.
2.
Purseweb Spider's Nest with undersurface part exposed by removing the sand neighborhooi Vi palmetto trunk.
Some of these may have been the nests of a brood the individuals of which had estallished themselves in close Very frequentl' these tubes were found attached to small trees or bushes.
AVhen the trunks of the saplings have a slanting position as occasionally happens by reason of external pressure of some kind the tube generally drops straight down to the ground forming an angle with the point of attachment instead of hugj  A. g r .'
H ging the bark of the plant.
Most ifelv 'l iPS of the tubes which I followed beWimjL'ycs'' neath the suiface terminated in a iiigggg.sS' point or had a clubshaped termiW point or had a clubshaped nus but in one case at least the tube broadened out into an irregular chamber with two short branches constructed like the main stem.
Fig.
3.
Colony of Purseweb spider's nest on a palmetto tree.
III.
USE AND MANNER OF SPINNING THE TUBULAR NEST.
Immense numbeis of these nests were found throughout the woods on the grounds of Dr. Wittfeld.
Spiders when found within the tuBes were usually clinging to the inside a short distance from the top or were found in the same position underneath the soil.
The most persistent observation at various hours night and day failed to uncover any of the spider's habits as to capture of pi'ey the mode of building the tube or the uses of the tube in the life economy of the creature.
I have no doubt however that in the uses of its peculiar web the Purseweb spider will be found to resemble closely her British congener Atypusiceus.
According to Mr. Fredrick Enock this aranead captures the insects that crawl Fig.
4.
An underground terminus or den wiih branches.
upOU the OUtCr SUrfaCC of her tube by striking them through the silk from the inside and when they are thus secured cutting a vent in the tissue large enough to drag the prey through into the tube.
This is a most curious and interesting habit the existence of which was established with tolerable certainty by Mr Enock by various observations and experiments.
I may venture to repeat the substance of one of these.
A large blow fly was held by its wings and permitted to crawl upon a bank until it walked upon one of the tubes of Atypus
The spider ascended a little distance and returned.
The head of the fly was then rubbed against the tube a number of times the tube meanAvhile becoming impercejtably distended indicating the spider's approach.
After a moment's pause the fimgs were thrust through the fly followed by a crunching sound as the spider closed and almost crossed the top fangs around its prey.
The observer released his hold upon the fly and immediately the left hand fang was withdrawn just into the tube which was torn and the fang refixed into the Hy.
The right fang was then withdrawn and quickly seized the 1 The Life History of Atypusiceus Sulz. by Fiedc.
Enock.
actions of the Entomological Society of London 1885 p. 389.
The Trans207 1888.J fly through the opening and after several tugs the insect was pulled Avithin the tube and the spider backed downward holding its preyfast in its falces leaving a rent a quarter inch long by threesixteenth inch wide.
After an interval of three minutes the spider cautiously reascended the tube to the opening and taking hold of the ragged edges of the rent drew them towards each other until they almost touched.
She then backed a little and turned her abdomen so that the spinners approximated the united edges.
Then by a number of zigzag movements with the spinners across the juncture she completely closed the rent and when it was neatly repaired returned apparently to feed upon her prey.
The next morning the rent was covered with sand so carefully that Mr. Enock could scarcely detect where it had been.
When the spider was satisfied with food it would draw in the tube in a determined manner and would retain her hold in this position sometimes for several hours.
1.
A timemeasure of the spinningwork.
 Being foiled by the persistent secretiveness of this spider in natural sites I captured several specimens and placed them within glass jars in order to observe their behavior under these artificial conditions.
Some important facts resulted particularly as to the mode of constructing the tubular nests.
The bottom of each jar was filled with sand and a stick inserted within in order to give a natural position for the establishment of a nest if the spider should be inclined to weave one.
One individual after long continued exploration of its quarters at last established itself at the foot of the standing stick and began to burrow a little hole.
I was compelled to leave at this point and did not return to my room until evening after twelve hours absence.
During this time a vertical tube of white silk one and onefourth inch long and about the thickness of the spider had been spun along the side of the stick.
The outside of the tube was sparsely covered over with particles of sand which of course had been brought from below.
A unit for measuring the time required to construct a tube was also obtained.
The inch and a Fig.
5.
First section of Purseweb spider's tubular nest.
208 1888.. quarter tubing was built Avithin twelve hours although of course it cannot be determined how much of this time was actually consumed in spinning work probably not more than two hours.
It is at least evident that a length of two inches or more a day is quite within the spinning capacity of Atypus.
The Foundation Frame and mode of Spinning the Exterior Tube.
 Another specimen gave a very satisfactory clew to the entire mode of constructing a tube.
It first took its position at the foot of the stick in the centre of the jar and wove a small lateral tube extending partly around the base.
See fig.
7.
At 9 o'clock in the evening this tube was pierced at the top and the creature begao to erect a vertical tube along the surface of the stick.
The mode of proceeding was substantially as follows Single threads were attached to the stick about two inches above the surface.
These threads were stretched downward and over a lateral space about the width of the tube to be spun extending to the little opening which had been made in the tube at the base of the stick.
The lines were repeated and over laid until at last tliey acquired considerable consistency of texture.
At the top terminus they were attached to the stick or to one another.
At the bottom the point of attachment was a little distance from the surface of the stick so that most of the lines had a slanting position.
Their appearance might be compared t that of a number of poles leaned against a tree.
The structure thus gradually assumed a skeleton tubular form which was increased by the pressure of the spider against the lines as it moved back and forward within them upon the surface of the stick.
When the scaffolding was completely overspun the section appeared as a close silken tube.
3.
Mode of Spinning binder ground.
 A third specimen enabled me to determine the manner in which this rough frame was completed so as to give it the close texture of the tubes found in Nature.
This specimen had excavated a tunnel against the inner surface of the Fig.
6.
Purseweb Spider lines of frame for a tube.
Foundation glass jar.
Its movements were thus entirely open to observation.
. '.
''..
'f Along this subterranean way or tunnel the spicier strung fine threads covering the bottom the side and the top forming a frame quite resembling the founds tion seaifolding used in spinning the vertical tube.
See fig.
6.
It then proceeded to thicken these linesin the following manner.
The bottom parts were overspun by emitting from the long inferior spinnerets numerous . 'iirn'w  .
fiuc threads whicli wcrc beaten down i' '' '' against the surface by dropping the. '
spinnerets and were spread around by a lateral movement of the abdomen which of course carried with .
it the spinnerets and the threads issiiFig.
7.
Purseweb Spider's tube.
Secig thcrcform.
The auimal's motiott tion after frame is overspun.
reminded ouc of a plastcrcr usiug his trowel to spread mortar rather than a weaver spinning cloth.
The.
space covered by these movements having been sufficiently thickened the sjoider proceeded to another spot and went through the same process.
When it came to thickening the upper portion of its tube it turned its abdomen upward resting its body upon the dorsum of the cephalothorax.
In other words the creature laid upon its back.
Its abdomen was well turned over so that in this position the spider was almost in the form of a semicircle.
The pressure of the abdomen upwards forced the lines at the point of impact into a little bay the concavity of which was thickened over with threads spun from the spinnerets Avhich were managed in the way already described.
That is the spinnerets were moved back and forward and the out spunthreads were beaten upwards into the lines already formed.
This procedure very closely resembles the manner of spinning which I have often observed in Mygale Hentzii the large tarantula of our southwestern States.
This mode of thickening over the foundation lines of the tube also closely resembles the behavior of orbweaving and other spiders when constructing the thick padding which surrounds their eggs forming their eggsacs or cocoons.
I have seen it notably in the case of Lycosa.
It is without doubt the way in which the trapdoor spider of California Cteniza Californica' spins the silken lining of her well known and much admired trap door nest.
4.
The Nesting Tube Spun in Sections.
 It was further determined with reasonable certainty that the spider builds its tube in sections.
A letter from Miss Anna Wittfeld after I returned from Florida informed me that the spiders had spun complete tubes within the jars which I had left under her care.
The question was at once raised were these tubes completed by adding to the section which had already been observed
From correspondence with Miss Wittfeld the information was obtained that the tubes had been finished as I had conjectured by adding to the portions previously formed.
We may therefore conclude first 1 that the mode of constructing these tubes is for the first time fully determined  second 2 that the original section of greater or less length as the case may be is spun in the manner now determined and described  and third 3 that additional sections of probably about the same length are added thereto according to the fancy or necessity of the builder and constructed in the same manner as the preceeding one.
It is thus within the power of Atypuso lengthen out her tube and extend along the trunk to any desirable height the web surface available as a snare for taking food.
Thus also as she ascends along her arboreal hunting ground she carries with her the protecting walls of her tubular home which is truly her castle.
A large number of tubes was collected and these I cut open with the view of determining whether any trace of this mode of spinning by sections had been left in the form of seams or joints  but nothing of the sort was found.
The points of juncture were so skilfully covered over that they differed in no respect from the texture of other portions of the tube.
The silk on the inside however was of beautiful smooth white color decidedly in contrast with the appearance of the outside.
In many specimens examined the upper extremity of the tube was made of perfectly white silk which apparently had been quite recently spun showing an addition to the tube either for the purpose of repairing and strengthening or else of extending the old nest.
This observation upon the nests spun in natural site quite harmonizes with the conclusion reached from the action of Atypusn confinement. ' For an account of the English Atypusiceus making a new nest as observed by Rev.
O. PickardCambridge See Annals and Mag.
of Natural History Vol.
viii. p. 241 187G.
5.
Doors.
 An examination of the numerous nests shows that openings are usually but not always left at the top of the tube.
These openings are placed indifferently beneath at the side and above.
When the spider is not near the upper portion of its tube the silk naturally collapses and the opening is not apjjarent.
However it must be remembered that a very slight stroke of the mandibles would open the tube at any part and give the spider egress.
So also a few movements of the spinnerets would close the aperture.
Moreover if we accept the conclusion that the mode of capturing prey is the same as that of Atypusiceug as above described there appears to be no special need for a door for the main necessity of life since the spider has little or no occasion ever to go outside her own tower or cave.
IV.
SANDING THE OUTSIDE OF THE TUBE.
It has been stated that one of the individuals put under observation after having spun her snare covered it more or less thickl'' with grains of sand.
It Avas thus indicated that the sanded condition of the tubes found in natural positions is the result of purpose on the part of the builder.
What purpose does it serve
Many spiders of various fiimilies are in the habit of protecting their cocoons or eggsacs by covering them with mud with particles of soil with bits of decayed wood and bark scraped or broken off with various minute chippage and even with the debris of insects' wings heads legs etc. captured for food.
In this behavior the purpose is obviously to protect the enclosed eggs from hurtful weather changes and various enemies cheifly the parasitizing ichneumonfly Pezomachus.
The use of the sand deliberately placed upon the outside of the nest of Atypuss not so obvious although it perhaps serves to toughen it and jiossibly protects its inmate from the assaults of certain enemies as yet unknowm.
In natural site the sand and weathering give the tubes almost the exact appearance of the outside of the tree along which it is placed.
In a large proportion of my specimens the sand was intermingled with brown wooddust from decayed bark and the dark colored vegetable mold which was heaped around the base of the trunk and into which the spiders had excavated.
It has been conjectured that this is an example of so called mimicry.
Some observations made by Mr. Frederick Enock on the habits of Atypusiceus the British congener of our Florida species raise a doubt upon this supposition at least indicate another solution.
The mode of constructing the tube as observed by Mr. Enock is substantially that which I have above described as practiced by our Purseweb Atypus
After the completion of her tube Piceus was seen' to take a load of sand between its falces every grain of which it deftly guided with its fings literally pushing the grains through the side of the tube.
Having exhausted its supply it reversed its position returned to the bottom and repeated the action of gathering and distributing the sand.
At the end of an hour and a half it had completely covered the silken tube with sand every grain of which it had brought up from the surface of the ground thrust it through the silken tube from the inside and afterwards as the occasion required smoothed over the rent Avith newly extruded silk.
The next morning a small quantity of sand had been forced out at the top of the tube showing that the industrious creature had continued its labor during the night and this indeed was prolonged during the greater part of the day.
The following night it had lengthened the aerial portion of the tube and covered it with sand. We may perhaps conclude from these facts that the spider had apparently simply endeavored to save itself the labor of carrying sand to the top of its tube by pushing it through the rent sides a method which would be naturally suggested by its custom of opening the tube to take in its prey.
Mr. Moggridge attributed this sanding of the exterior to a protective purpose and alludes to the fact that while tubes of Atypusiceus found on sandy banks were covered with sand a nest takeji at Troyes France in a mossy site had moss and plant fibres woven upon it.'
But as the spider in such environment would be compelled to clear away particles of moss root fibres etc. in extending the nest over the surface and through the close standing stems there appears to be no reason why it might not treat this chippage precisely as it did the sand in Mr. Enock's examples.
No doubt these spiders as well as our Purseweb while in the act of deporting the sand excavated from beneath frequently leave grains attached to the inside of the tube.
Indeed it would be difficult to prevent this as the sand readily entangles with the silken fibres but as such a rough coating would be unpleasant to the creature in its frequent passing to and fro it would overspin all these inside droppings.
Indeed in this very fact we may see a sufficient reason for the ' The LifeHistory of Atypusiceus page 397.
2 Harvesting Ants and TrapDoor Spider.
Supplement.
.
188. habit of getting the sand out at a point nearer the ground than the top of the tube.
On the contrary the particles dumped from the top or through slits in the side and which alo readily entangle within the silk strands as they fall are permitted to remain inasmuch as they are not inconvenient.
The idea of a protective purpose cannot however be wholly excluded  for it is found that in repairing the rents made in the tube in order to draw in the stricken prey the new material spun over the rent is quite invariably sanded.
This indicates a deliberate intention.
On the whole in view of the above facts and reasoning from them by analogy it appears that 1 much of the sand and barkdust which covers the outside of the nests of Atypuss an incidental result of the act of excavation  2 that however the spider does at times deliberately add to this coating 3 that the purpose of this act is probably irotective at least in the way of strengthening the tube 4 that there is no positive proof that protective mimicry has any part in the habit  yet 5 as a matter of fact this exterior coating does better adapt the tube as a snare both to decoy insects to a light and enable them to travel upon it.
V. MATERNITY HABITS.
Much remains to be determined of the lifehistory of the Purseweb spider but we may venture the prediction that in many points it will be found to difler little from the habits of its British conoener as described by various observers.
We know from Abbot's note above cited that the young like the offspring of Lycosids domicile upon the back of the mother after they are hatched.
The cocoon containing the eggs is of course retained within the purseweb and probably in that portion which is beneath the surface of the ground.
Atypusiceus suspends her eggcocoon in a pretty hammock of silk an inch long attached to the top and bottom of the pouch. The number of eggs within the cocoon of Piceus is from one hundred to one hundred and fifty.
They are deposited in midsummer July or early August and the young issue from the cocoon about the latter part of September.
They remain with their mother in the maternal nest during the winter and Mr. Enoch found the female and her young together March 31st and again as late as April 5th About 1 See Mr.
Knock's paper p. 392.
See also a good figure representing the same habit in Mr. Simon's paper Annals Entomological Society of France 5th Series torn.
3 1874 plate 4 also Spiders of Dorset Rev.
O. P. Cambridge page xxxiii Introduction.
the last named dates the younglings make their exode and after being dispersed in the manner usual to spiderlings proceed to make tiny tubes which are miniatures of the parent nest.
As the development of spider life in Great Britain is later than in the United States the tubelets of the young of Abbot's Atypusay be looked for in the early autumn.
Some of the Florida specimens which I collected in April within their tubes I judge to be members of the preceding autumn broods.
VI.
ORIGIN AND RELATIONS OF THE TUBEWEAVING HABIT.
The tubemaking faculty appears to be as far as secondary causes are concerned the natural result of the instinct of selfprotection.
It is perhaps most natural that the lower animals should seek to protect themselves within barriers formed by their body secretions as is the case among the larvre of many insects.
The restless movements of the body characteristic of these creatures conjoined with the instinct to cover themselves up to protect themselves from unfavorable weather changes and from the aproach of' enemies may be a sufficient natural explanation of the origin of the tubemaking habit.
Thus the silk moth larva while secreting silk from the glands which open on the under lip moves backward and forward continually distributing its secretions and at the same time by the motion of its body limits them to the borders of the space around which it moves.
In the same way the social caterpillars have learned to shut themselves within their Avell known tent which presents so largely the appearance of a designed structure but which in its origin at least may have been quite as much the result of accident the silken secretion simply hardening around the limits of the space through which the restless creatures move and which by their motions they keep free from threads.
In like manner the larva of the ant at the moment when Nature brings upon it the sense of the great change from its larval to its pupal estate moves backward and forward within a narrow space secreting its delicate silk which by its movements is pushed from direct contact with its body and hardens into the little case or pouch in which itself at last is encompassed.
Thus in an entirely natural way we may suppose that the Great OverForce while planning and directing preserving and governing all creatures and all their actions has developed the interesting habit of sjiinning tubes or cylinders as a protection to the body.
Among the spicier fauna this habit is particularly ironiinent.
It does not exist as with insects in a larval estate but in the pei'fect animal the only one Avith possibly one exception' of which we have knowledge the tubemaking instinct of insects being confined to the larval period.
This habit which characterizes the larvre of insects is carried forward to the perfect animal among the Aranere.
The habit of protecting themselves by tubular spinning work in one form or another exists among some species of every section or tribe of the spiders.
Among the Orbw'eavers we have such examples as Epeira strix which spins a tough silken cylinder open at one end.
Within this she makes her home and holds a connection with her round snare by means of a thread.
This tube is spun within cavities of various sorts and often wdthin a curled leaf The habit is again illustrated among the Orbweavers by the beautiful silken domes or tents with or without a leafy covering such as are formed by the Insular spider Epeira insularis or the Shamrock spider Epeira trifolium.
Among the RetitelarijB or Lineweavers we have such examples as the pretty tubular tent of Theridium zelotyppmn which I havefound swinging among pine leaves in the Adirondack forests containing the mother and young.
The Saltigrades or Vaulting spidersspin thick silken tubes within which they shelter themselves during summer and winter and in which also they bestow their eggsacs.
The Laterigrades I have found sheltered underneath a little tubular tent guarding their cocoons although the tube making habit seems to be least decided among these of all the aranead families.
The Tubeweavers of course as their name implies have a strong tendency in this direction.
Indeed some remarkable examples of tubular nests may be found among them as in the case of our Medicinal spider Tegenaria medidnalis and the funnelshaped snare of the Speckled tubeweaver Agalena ncevia which is one of the most common spiders of America.
The nest of this Agalena is a tube oftentimes of considerable length which broadens out from the topopening into a sheeted snare that is spread over surrounding surfaces and is usually guyed or supported by lines reaching upward.
It may be seen extendingwithin little cavities and openings insect burrows gopher holes and the like and in some cases I have thought that I have seen indica1 Psocus.
See my Note on a Webspinning Neuropterous Insect Psocus sexpunctatus.
Proceed.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
of Philadelphia 1883 pp.
2789. tions that the occupant had assisted in accommodating her spinning work to her usurped quarters by widening and deepening the hole.
At all events the snare when seen in such sites presents a very striking appearance of having been a work of design both in the burrow and in the interspun tube precisely as in the case of the Tunnelweavers.
Agalena has one remarkable physical characteristic in common with Atypusnd other Theraphosids namely the long jointed spinnerets which are used so actively in spinning her characteristic tube.
When we come to the two remaining tribes the Lycosids and Tunnelweavers Territelarise we see this habit possessing special developments and here also we see it associated with the burrowing habit which is such a marked characteristic of many of the higher .animals and even of man himself.
The nest of Cyrtauchenius elongatus as described by M. Eugene Simon closely resembles that of Agalena ncevia in the character of the tube alone  but this tube is enclosed within a deep cylindrical burrow and is prolonged upward for about three inches above the surface of the ground and enlarged into a funnelshape so that it becomes from tM'o to three inches across at the orifice.
This aerial portion is snow white and at once attracts the eye even from a considerable distance  the nests rising up amid sparse grass which serves to support but not conceal them present the appearance of scattered white fungi.
Cyrtauchenius belongs to the Territelarire and appears to be nearly related to Atypusnd Nemesia.
Mr. Moggridge classifies its nest among those of the trapdoor spiders characterizing it as the funnelshaped nest. The nest of Cyrtauchenius even more closely resembles that of certain Lycosids found in the United States  'for example iycosa tigrina is quite abundant in the Atlantic States of America.
It constructs a nest wdiich answers closely to Simon's description of Crytauchenius the only exception being that the portion of the nest above ground quite invariably forms an oblique angle wath the tunnel within the ground and the burrow is not lined with spinning work below the mouth.
The aerial portion of this spider's nest is sometimes formed into a beautiful vestibule above the mouth of the burrow and as the winter season advances is occasionally shielded 1 Harvesting Ants and TrapDoor Spiders Supplement p. 190.
Mr. Moggridge gives a diagramatic figure of this Spider's nest from the description of M. Simon.
See pi.
13 p. 183.
 Tarentula tigrina McCook.
Proceed.
Am.
Entom.
Soc.
1879 p. xi.
with a sort of swinging door.
Hentz says that one winter he found a burrow of a Lijcosa species not named supplied with a lid and he thinks it jrobable that all Lycosids close the orifice of their holes for hibernation. I may say here that probably all burrowing Lycosids close the openings of their nests as the cold season approaches and it is possible that the same habit Avill be found to prevail as a protection against heavy rains even in the summer and autumn.
Mrs. Mary Treat says that certain Lycosids thus shut themselves in just before moulting and remain so until quite recovered from the after debility Another interesting Lycosid tubemaker is the turret spider. This creature constructs above the surface of the ground to the height of one or two inches a little tower which is in form an irregular pentagon and is composed of bits of straw stalks of grass etc.
It is quite like the old fashioned mudchimneys which I have often seen attached to the gables of log cabins in the far Avest.
 Unlike the surface nest of Tigrina the tower of Arenicola is invariably built in the line of the burrow the whole forming a straight perpendicular tube.
We have thus established through the nest of Cyrtauchenius a very close connection between the nesting habits of the Lycosids and that of the Territelarise.
In the case of Atypxis sukeri as it is seen in England and described by its first observer Mr. Joshua Brown the nest assumes the shape of a pendant inflated tube covered with particles of sand closed at the top extending nine inches more or less above the silklined burrow of like depth and attached to surrounding foliage.
In this form it cannot differ largely from that of our Pursevveb spider except that the former is stayed among the grassstalks and the latter is fastened to the tree trunks.
It would be interesting and perhaps highly suggestive were Abbot's Atypuso be domiciled in a grassy site away from trees to note its behavior.
Would it make a nest quite like that of the English Atypus
  Spiders U. S. p. 25.
2  My Garden Pets p. 82.
3 Lycosa arenicola Scudder.
Psyche.
Vol.
II p. 2 1887.
 McCook  Tenants of an Old Farm figs.
44 45 p. 1315.
5 Efforts to pursue my studies of the Purseweb spider were prevented by the loss of the living specimens sent me by Miss Wittfeld from Florida.
We exhausted our ingenuity in providing protection for packages sent through the mail but not a spider lived.
Evidently the species is more sensitive to such confinement than many others.
I regret to record that since writing this note the young lady here mentioned has died.
Her keen and intelligent interest in insect life are well known and were highly appreciated not only by myself but by others entomologists.
15 The nests of the same spider  according to other observers have the projecting part trailed along the ground or surface growth of grass or moss.
Thus the tube differs from that of the Purseweb Atypusimply in that it is spun horizontally along the surface instead of being attached in a perpendicular position to a tree.
M. Eugene Simon says that Atypusiceus conceals herself in dry localities partly vmderground  sometimes in woods principally the plantations of evergreens.
Its retreat is altogether hidden sometimes by the stones at other times by the moss so that it is necessary to search with care and over large spaces in order to discover it.
This Atypusurrows obliquely a deep tunnel of 15 to 20 centimetres of the size of its body.
It constructs part of its tube quite straight and of a tissue very thick of which the upper part is longer than that within the subterranean gallery.
It is continued horizontally upon the soil and terminates in a tapering closed point.
Near its lower extremity the tube presents a large expansion where it dilates into the form of a chamber quite spacious within which the spider dwells.
It is at the entrance of the contraction that it suspends by a few threads the cocoon containing its eggs.
Simon presents a drawing in site of the nest of Atypusnd a good figure of a collected specimen is given by Moggridge. These comparative results suggest a very interesting analogy between the spinning industry of the two aranead tribes the Citigradse and Territelarise which I venture to present in diagrammatic outlines at Fig.
8 and 9.
The first figure in the cut Fig.
8 1 represents the simple burrow of the Mygalidce which in many species and especially our own American tarantula is a tubular hole in the ground without any silken tube or lining.
This quite corresponds with the unlined tubular burrow which is the typical nest of the Citigrades as represented by most of the Lycosids Fig 9 1.
The second figure of the series Fig.
8 shows the silken tubular nest of the Atypime as represented by the American and European species considered in this paper.
Here we have the ground burrow 1 Note on Alypus sulzeri Mr. Edward Newman Linnean Society.
See also Zoologist Vol.
xiv. 1856. p. 5021.
See also Moggridge TrapDoor Spiders p. 185.
2 Annals Entomological Soc.
of France 5th Series Tome 3 1873 Plate 4. '
Harvesting Ants and Trap Door Spiders Supplement p. 183 PI.
xiii.
1888.
219 of Mygale with the addition of a silken lining which also is carried above the surface and attached to trees a or to the adjacent herbage either in a straight tube 6 or a curved one c.
Fig.
8.
Nesting Industry of the Territelarise.
1.
Mygale.
2.
Atypus A Abbotii b c A. piceus.
3.
Cyrtauchenius.
Cteniza and Nemesia.
Fig.
9.
Nesting Industry of the Citigradae.
I. Lycosa.
2.
L. arenicola.
3 4.
L. tigrina.
Turning to the corresponding number in the Citigrade series Fig.
9 2 we see the burrow slightly silk lined at the mouth and carried upward above the surface where it is supported by a rude turret.
The silken tube is however open and is rudimentary as compared with that of Atypushe third members of the two series show a yet closer likeness in in the nest forms viz. that of Cyrtauchenius Fig.
8 3 and that of Lycosa tigrina Fig.
9 3.
The last named spider by that form of surface nest described above Fig.
9 4 shows us a rude suggestion of the trapdoor spider's nest which whether spun within a ground burrow Fig.
8 4 a or within the ridges of bark upon a tree 4 b as with certain Mexican species has attracted the admiration not only of naturalists but of all observers.
It is curious to note by the way the tendency of these accomplished nest builders to domicile upon a tree like their American tribal associates the Purseweb lers.
1 Some of the large creatures known generally as the Mygalidae or tarantulas I have no doubt silk line their burrows.
We might therefore add to this series another and intermediate form of nest between Mygale 1 and Atypus as here givea.
From this comparison these conclusions and inferences appear First 1 Tunnelweavers and Citigrades have several well marked common characteristics in their nesting industry that suggest a close relation in spinning economy.
Second 2 the two tribes furnish examples of nests that may be arranged in series of advanced industrial skill from a simple burrow to the highly specialized nest of the Trapdoor spider on one side and on the other to the rude door or lid of Tigrina's silklined vestibule.
Third 3 the most perfect manifestation of nesting industry is found with the Tunnelweavers who are more dependent upon spinningwork for sustenance and probably irotection than the Citigrades.
Fourth 4 there appears to be some although no very marked relation between the animal organization and the quality of the spinning work of the two tribes.
The greatest development in size as well as in spinning function has been reached among the Tunnelweavers  but most araneologists would consider the Lycosids the more highly organized spiders.
Moreover the Tunnelweavers are provided with long jointed superior spinners lacking in Lycosids specially adapted for weaving their more perfect nests.
Finally as the result of a comparative study of the nesting industry of all the siider fauna we may conclude that there is one germinal or typical form of nest among all the tribes Avhich form is the tube.
Around this common and rudimentary form which has been shown to be the one most natural to all animals possessing the spinning function the greatly varied and widely divergent nests of spiders  whether known as domiciles dens tents tunnels or caves may be grouped in series of more or less modified forms.
1888.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
221 July 10.
Mr. Thomas Meehan VicePresident in the chair.
Eleven persons present.
The following papers were presented for publication   On the Fauna of the Lower Coal Measures of Central Iowa.
By Charles R. Keyes.
Descriptions of two new Fossils from the Devonian of Iowa.
By Charles R. Keyes.
The death of Edwin L. Reakirt a member was announced.
July 24.
Mr. Isaac C. Maetindale in the chair.
Nine persons present.
A paper entitled New Species of Shells from the New Hebrides and Sandwich Islands.
By W. D. Hartman M. D. was presented for publication.
The death of Henry Carvill Lewis Professor of Mineralogy in the Academy was announced.
July 31.
Mr. Charles Roberts in the chair.
Thirteen persons present.
The following were ordered to be published   ON THE FAUNA OF THE LOWER COAL MEASURES OF CENTRAL IOWA.
BY CHARLES R. KEYES.
The carboniferous rocks of the region in the immediate vicinity of Des Moines have until quite lately yielded only fragmentary remains of fossils.
Recent investigations however have disclosed a rich fauna embracing as hereafter enumerated more than 35 genera and nearly 60 species the majority of them in a most perfect state of preservation.
In Iowa the lower coal measures present lithologically a marked contrast with both the undersubcarboniferous and the overlying middle and upper coal measures strata which are preeminently calcareous while the lower coal measures are characterized by an almost total absence of the calcareous divisions which are represented only by a few thin bands of impure limestone local in distribution.
A section of the rocks at Des Moines presents  Drift 20 feet.
Loss 15  Middle coal measures 40  Lower coal measures .
.
.
.
.
160  St. Louis limestone not exposed in Polk county.
The superficial deposits have been quite thoroughly studied by McGee and Call but the palaeozoic rocks have in Polk county received but a passing notice.
Though economically of far greater importance than any other formation in the state the lower coal measures have received comparatively little geologic attention  and the two attempts at an exhaustive and detailed survey of this formation in Iowa and a correlation of the different coal horizons was unfortunately rendered abortive by circumstances entirely beyond the control of those engaged in the study of the Des Moines valley region.
In Iowa the lower coal measures probably have a maximum thickness of more than tAvo hundred feet but notwithstanding the fact that at Des Moines the entire formation underlies the city which is situated just at the eastern border of the middle coal measures this maximum is nowhere in Polk county attained.
The base of the middle coal measures as characterized by Mr. St. John and as is clearly shown in several localities in the immediate vicinity of Des Moines is composed of variegated clays and shales 1 Vide Am.
Jour.
Sci. vol.
xxiv Sept. 1882.
 White's Geol.
Iowa vol.
I p. 272. with one or two intercalated bands of impure nodular limestone.
These variegated shales have a thickness of forty or more feet and are easily recognizable at numerous exposures in the bluffs of the vicinity by the thin limestone bands which within the city limits have yielded twenty or more species of fossils.
There are also included in the middle coal measures some local depositions of micaceous sandstone usually soft and unfit even for the roughest masonry  some of it however is concretionary and quite durable.
Formerly these portions were quarried for local use but of late no attempt has been made for its utilization.
At the southern extremity of Capital Hill this sandstone reaches a thickness of more than twentyfive feet.
A short distance north of the city a sandstone having a thickness of twelve feet caps the bluff and forms a high mural escarpment along the south side of the Des Moines river.
Although the Des Moines and Racoon rivers have in Polk county corraded their channels through the upper strata the lower coal measures are fully represented from the underlying St. Louis limestone  the nearest exposure of which is about thirty miles below Des Moines  to the superimposing variegated shales just mentioned.
This formation as represented in this vicinity is composed almost entirely of clays and shales with a few thin layers of soft sandstone and at least three workable beds of coal.
The relative positions of the latter are shown in the following sections at the Giant Coal Mine where the fossil forms hereafter mentioned were chiefly collected  Drift clay and carbonaceous shales .
.
56 feet Coal No.
1 Shales etc.
..... Coal No.
2 Shales lower layers fossiliferous.
Coal No.
3 4 to 6   To the southwest from Capital Hill the distance between coals No.
2 and No.
3 appears to increase and the latter vein attains a thickness in some places of seven feet.
The coal measures of Iowa have a general dip to the south and west.
To the northeast from Des Moines the coal veins appear to thin out and finally are wanting as shown in the accompanying sections  the first at Altoona 1 Vide White on the Unconformability of the coal measures upon the older rocks etc.
Geology of Iowa Vol.
I p. 225 et seq.
4 If 35 20i  41  nine miles from Des Moines and the second three miles north of Mitchellville or sixteen miles from Des Moines.
Drift and carbonaceous clays .
.
.
110 feet.
Shale 60  Sandstone 15  Coal IJ  Shale ........ 15  Coal 4  A boring near INIitchellville at the eastern border of Polk county shows an almost entire absence of coal.
Drift 64 feet.
Blue and black shales with a thin band of limestone and one of sandstone .
.
17  Impure coal .
.
.
.
.
.
lo  Gray black blue and sandy shales with two layers of sandstone .... 141 i '' Limestone Avith marly partings .
.
.
392  Coals No.
2 and especially No.
3 are the most profitably worked and furnish nearly all the coal mined in the county.
Immediately overlying and thus forming the roof of coal No.
3 is a soft black clayey shale often slaty in places highly fossiliferous and containing much iron pyrites in the form of crystals and nodules  many cubes of the former being over an inch along the edges and the hitter often containino shells of mollusca.
The shell substance of the fossils from these shales aside from those contained in the pyritiferous nodules is replaced more or less completely by pyrite.
In some specimens the replacement is complete  in others only a thin film of pyrite covers the shell leaving the interior of the shell substance Avith the original calcareous constituents  between the two extremes all degrees of replacement by pyrite occur.
In a few instances  Lophopliyllum fishteeth and the remains of crinoids  no replacement has taken place.
These fossiliferous shales are vipon exposure to the weather easily and speedily disintegrated into a fine black clay and the iron pyrite contained quickly decomposes thus rendering it extremely difiicult to obtain good specimens of fossils unlessthe shales are examined immediately upon being taken from the mines.
This fact may account in part for the apparent rarity of fossils from the lower coal measures of Central Iowa as all traces of fossil remains are quickly obliterated after the shales have been disturbed.
Independent of its biological and geological relations the fauna of the lower coal measures of Des INIoines is of considerable interest in its bearing upon the geographical distribution during carboniferous times of certain species  and also on account of the close similarity in many respects of this and the fauna of the lower coal measures of eastern Illinois particularly that of the superimposing black shales of the Danville coal or coal No.
7 of the general Illinois section.
Stratigraphically the relations of these two fossiliferous shales to the principal coalbeds are the same  each forming the roof of the most extensive coal stratum in their respective localities  lithologically the two shales are apparently identical.
CCELENTERATA.
Lophophyllum proliferum McChesney.
Cyathaxonia prolifera McChesney 1860.
Disc.
New Palseo.
Fos.
p. 60.
Cyathaxonia sj'.
Geinitz 1866.
Carb.
und Dyas in Nebraska pp.
65 66 tab.
v figs.
34.
Lophophyllum proliferum Meek 1872.
U. S. Geol.
Surv.
of Nebraska p. 144.
This species though a characteristic and usually one of the most abundant fossils of the coal measures is extremely rare in the lower coal measures of central Iowa however it is not to be expected that the remains of coelenterates would occur very abundantly in bituminous shales.
Rhombopora lepidodendroides Meek.
Rhomhopora lejndodendroides Meek 1872.
U. S. Geol.
Sur.
of Nebraska p. 144.
Rliomhopora lepidodendroides White 1875.
Expl.
and Sur.
W. 100 merid.
Vol.
IV pt.
1 p. 99.
From the lower coal measures but a single specimen of this species has been collected.
In a thin band of limestone of the middle coal measures about one hundred feet higher than the horizon from which this specimen was found this species occurs quite abundantly.
ECHINODERMATA.
Eupachycrinus sp.
.
The only remains of echiuoderms as yet discovered in the black shales are a few stem joints and a brachial plate which evidently belong to one of the coal measure species of this genus.
BRYOZOA.
Synocladia biserialis Swallow.
Synocladia biserialis Swallow 1858.
Trans.
St Louis Acad.
Sci..
Vol.
I p. 179.
Sijnocladia virgulacea Geinitz 1866.
Carb.
und Dyas in Nebraska p. 70.
The only bryozoan remains from tbe black shales consist of a few well preserved specimens of this species.
From the investigations of Meek and Ethridge it would appear that Front's genus Setopora is synonymous with Synocladia and according to the former writer S. cestriensis from the Chester limestone is very closely allied to if not identical with S. biserialis.
This would give Synocladia biserialis a much more extensive vertical range than has hitherto been supposed.
BRACHIOFODA.
Xingula umbonata Cox.
Lingula umbonata Cox 1857.
Geol.
Surv.
Ky. Vol.
Ill p. 576 pi.
X fig.
4.
Lingula umbonata White 1884.
13 Ann.
rep. Geol.
Ind. pt.
II p. 120 pi.
XXV fig.
14.
The specimens from Des Moines are somewhat larger than the one originally figured by Cox loc.
cit.
 and like that are broader posteriorly to the midlength than anteriorly.
The posterior margin is broadly rounded instead of being obtusely angular as it is often said to be and as is shown in some figures of this species.
None of the specimens under consideration are therefore so prominently subangular on the posterior margin and broader anteriorly to the midlength as those shown in the figures of Meek and Worthen of a form which they call L. mytiloides Sowerby while specimens of Sowerby's species figured by Ethridge have the posteripr margin even more sharply rounded or obtusely angular.
No opportunity has been offered for directly comparing the American with the European forms and consequently their exact specific relations have not been sufficiently considered.
Biscina nitida Phillips.
Orbicula nitida Fhillips 1836.
Geol.
Yorks. II p. 221 pi.
xi figs.
1013.
Discina nitida Meek and Worthen 1873.
Geol.
Ill Vol.
V p. 572 pi.
XXV fig.
1.
This species is common at the Folk county coal mine but has not as yet been discovered elsewhere in the county.
The specimens 1 Geol.
Illinois Vol.
V p. xxv figs.
2a 2b 2c  Proc.
Nat.
His.
Soc.
Glasgow Vol.
IV pi.
v fig.
3. collected are on the average smaller than those from other localities.
Meek and Worthen regard D. missouriensis Shumard a synonym of this species.
Productus nanus Meek and Worthen.
Productus nanus Meek and Worthen 1860.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.'
Phila. p. 450.
Productus nanus Meek and Worthen 1866.
Geol.
111. Vol.
II p. 320 pi.
xxvi figs.
4a 4b 4c 4d.
This species was described from the lower coal measures of Jefferson county and inasmuch as the St. Louis limestone is exposed in many of the creeks of that locality its horizon is near the base of the coal measures  the horizon at Des Moines from which the specimens under consideration were obtained is somewhat higher.
Though quite rare it will doubtless be found in other localities in the Des Moines valley.
It is associated with P. muricatus N. and P. to which it presents differences that are both characteristic and constant.
The almost total absence of spines in this species forms a marked contrast with the congeneric species of the same locality.
Productus cora D'Orbigny.
Productus cava d'Orbiguy 1842.
Voyage dans I'Amerique Meridionale.
Productus prattenianus Norwood 1854.
Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. Vol.
Ill p. 17.
Productus cequicostatus Shumard 1855.
Geol.
Rep. Missouri p. 201 pi.
C fig.
10.
Productus flemingi Geinitz 1866.
Carb.
und Dyas in Nebraska p. 52 tab.
iv figs.
1 2 3 4.
Productus cora White 1884.
Ind.
Geol.
Kept for 1883 p. 126 pi.
xxvi figs.
1 2 3.
A single specimen from the Polk County coal mine.
This species was originally described from South America  but with the exception of Owen' and Marcou American paleontologists have until quite recently adopted for this form Norwood's name of P. prattenianus.
A Productus collected from the Kinderhook in the vicinity of Burlington and from the same horizon in Marshall county unquestionably belongs to this species  if however this is the form described by White as P. Icevicostus the latter is certainly synonymous  Geol.
Rep. Iowa Wisconsin and Minnesota 1852.
2 Geology of North America 1858.
3 Boston Jour.
Nat.
His. Vol.
VII p. 230 I860.
with P. cora the vertical range of which would extend downward to the base of the subcarboniferous.
Produotus muricatus Norwood and Pratten.
Productus muricatus Norwood and Pratten 1854.
Jour.
Acad Nat.
Sci.
Phila. Vol.
Ill p. 14 pi.
i fig.
8.
Productus muricatus White 1875.
Exp.
and Sur.
w. 100 merid.
vol.
IV pt.
I p. 120 pi.
viii fig.
4.
In the geology of Yorkshire p. 214 jil.
viii fig.
3 Phillips in 1836 described Producta muricata but the description is very brief and his figure would indicate that he had in hand a specimen of less than average size of P. costatus described by Sowerby nine years before.
In Iowa Dr. White found Norwood and Pratten's P. muricatus most characteristic of the middle coal measures  the recent discoveries however show that it is the most abundant brachiopod of the lower coal measures in the region around Des Moines yet the average size is somewhat less than that of the same species from the calcareous strata of the middle coal measures of the same locality.
Both Davidson and Meek regard P. muricatus N. and P. identical with P. longispinus of Sowerby.
Throughout Iowa at least P. imiricatus N. and P. presents characteristics that are remarkably constant  and when associated with P. longispinus no hesitancy whatever would be entertained in separating the two forms.
The species of Prodicfts described have been numerous as is attested by an extensive and remarkable synonymy which is only too apparent to those who have given the subject careful attention.
The wide geographical distribution of some sjecies and the extensive vertical range of others together with the concomitant differences of environment at the time when the species were living readily accounts for the extreme variations presented.
Inattention to this important factor has often led to the basis of species upon superficial characters which are relatively unimportant as classificatory criteria and the confusion arising therefrom has rendered the study of this group extremely unsatisfactory.
Chonetes mesoloba Norwood and Pratten.
Chonetes mesoloba Norwood and Pratten 1854.
Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. Vol.
Ill p. 27.
Chonetes mesoloba White 1875.
Expl.
and Surveys w. 100 merid.. Vol.
IV p. 123 pi.
ix fig.
7a.
This species is one of the most abundant of the brachiopods occurring in the bituminous shales of this locality.
The average width of fifty specimens is nine millimeters much below normal  specimens very much larger occur in other horizons.
Here it is generally perfectly preserved in all its details  the mesial fold is more sharply defined and the depressions on each side of the fold relatively deeper than is usual Avith this species.
The depauperate condition of this and in fact of all the brachiopods from the same horizon is suggestive of an environment at the time these animals lived that was extremely unfavorable to the full development and to the attainment of a normal size that would be rendered possible by a more congenial habitat.
Chonetes laevis nov. sp.
Plate XII figs.
3a 3b.
Shell small  much wider than long  transversely semielliptical  the cardinal line as long as the greatest width of the shell or often slightly extended beyond the lateral margins.
Ventral valve convex with no indication of a mesial sinus  beak not prominent  cardinal area rather narrow but Avell denned centrally becoming linear toward the extremities  foramen moderately wide  cardinal margin bearing from four to seven oblique spines on each side of the beak.
Dorsal valve flat or very slightly concave  with no mesial fold.
Surface of both valves apparently perfectly smooth  but under a magnifier it is seen to be marked by numerous fine concentric striae and more jrominent often somewhat imbricated lines of growth  these are sometimes crossed by fine nearly obsolete radiating strise.
Length 7 mm.
 breadth 12 mm.
This species is found in the superimposing black shales of coal No.
3 at Des Moines and is associated with Chonetes mesoloba Productus muricatus and the minute gasterpods hereafter mentioned.
The glabrate character and the absence of a mesial fold and sinus as is constant iu all eight of the specimens found forms a marked contrast with the associated congeneric forms in which the radiating strise are unusually sharp and well defined  and also with the other carboniferous forms of the same genus.
This species is closely allied to and perhaps identical with the form described by Geinitz' as 1 Carbon formation und Dyas in Nebraska 1866 p. 60.
Chonetes glabra but this name however was preoccupied by Hall in 1857 for a species from the Upper Helderburg.
Streptorhynchus crenistria Phillips.
Spirifera crenistria Phillips 1836.
Geol.
Yorks. II p. 216 pi.
ix fig.
6.
Ortkisina crassa Meek and Hayden 1858.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. p. 260.
Orthis robusta Hall 1858.
Geol.
Iowa vol.
I pt.
II p. 713.
Orthis lasallensis McChesney 1860.
New Palseo.
Foss. p. 32.
Orthis richmondi McChesney 1860.
New Palreo.
Foss. p. 32.
Hemipronites crassus Meek and Hayden 1864.
Palse.
Upper Missouri p. 26.
Orthis crenistria Geinitz 1866.
Garb und Dyas in Nebraska p. 46.
Hemipronites crassus McChesney 1867.
Trans.
Chicago Acad.
Sci. p. 28.
Hemipronites crassus Meek and Worthen 1873.
Geol.
111. vol.
V p. 570.
At the Pioneer mine several moderately larger specimens have been obtained.
This species has been more generally known as Hemipronites crassus M. and H. It is a common and characteristic fossil of the coal measures throughout Iowa and the contiguous states and presents many varietal phases.
Hall's Orthis robusta described from this state is unquestionably identical with this species.
There is also associated with the Des Moines specimens a smaller form about five millimeters in width which appears to differ very materially from any forms of S. crenistria examined.
Spirifera camerata Morton.
Spirifer cameratus Morton 1836.
Am.
Jour.
Sci. vol.
XXIX p. 150.
Spirifer cameratus Meek and Worthen 1873.
Geol.
111. vol.
V p. 573.
Though a most abundant and characteristic species of the coal measures of the west this species is represented in the Des Moines collections by only two specimens one fairly good though somewhat .
crushed and the other fragmentary yet they exhibit distinctly the peculiar fasciculated costse as in the typical specimens.
Spirifera lineata Martin.
Spirijer lineatus Martin 1809.
Petrif.
Derb.
Coal Meas.
Spirifer perplexa McChesney 1860.
New Palte.
Foss.
Spirifera lineata White 1884.
Geol.
Rep. Ind.
for 1883 p. 133.
Pioneer mine six or eight specimens were obtained associated with Athyris subtilita.
Spirifera rockymontana Marcou.
Spirifer rochymontanus Mavcou 1858.
Geol.
N. A. p. 50.
Spirifer opirmis Hall 1858.
Geol.
Iowa vol.
I pt.
II p. 711.
Spirifer subventricosus McChesney 1860.
Disc.
New Palae.
Fos.
p. 44.
Pioneei' mine  three specimens.
This and S. opimus Hall are unquestionably synonymous  and though both names were proposed the same year Marcou's has priority as has been shown by White Vide under Betziamormoni.
McChesney in 1860 described this form as Spirifer subventricosus but in the revision of his first paper he makes his species synonymous with Hall's S. opimus.
Spiriferina kentuckensis Shumard.
Spirifer kentuckensis Shumard 1855.
Geol.
Sur.
Missouri p. 203.
Spiriferina kentuckensis Meek 1872.
U. S. Geol.
Sur.
Neb. p. 185.
Pioneer mine  two specimens.
This species is quite common in the calcareous strata of the middle coal measures of the same locality.
Athyris subtilita Hall.
Terebratula subtilita Hall 1852.
Stans.
Exp.
Gt.
Salt Lake p. 409.
Athyris subtilita Newberry 1861.
Ives Exped.
Colorado River p. 126.
Not common in fact brachiopods are comparatively rare in thp lower coal measures of the region under consideration and with two exceptions the species are represented by few examples.
In the limestones of the middle coal measures this species is quite abundant and often attains a large size.
As is well known it has a wide geographical and vertical distribution being found from the Appalachian to the Rocky Mountain regions  it also occurs in the subcarboniferous of Europe and India.
In all probability several species described from the subcarboniferous of this country Avill prove synonymous with this form.
In North America its vertical range would then extend from the subcarboniferous through the coal measures into the permian.
Eetzia mormoni Marcou.
' Terebratula mormonii Marcou 1858.
Geology N. A. p. 51.
Retzia punctilifera Shumard 1858.
Trans.
St. Louis Acad.
Sci. vol.
I p. 220.
 Retzia mormonii Meek and Hay den 1859.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat Sci.
Phila. p. 27.
This species is represented by two specimens one of which is somewhat crushed.
There appears to be satisfactory evidence that Marcou's name has priority.
Dr. White says in a foot note on p. 125 volume IV of Explorations and Surveys west of the 100th meridian   Orthis pecosi Retzia mormoni Mhynchonella iita li.
rocJcpnontana and Spirifer rockyinontana were jiublished by Marcou in his Geology of North America.
I have obtained satisfactory evidence that the work was published as early as March 1 1858.
Vol.
XV of the Bulletin de la Societe Geologique de France contains a statement that a copy of the book was sent to that society on April 20 1858.
In the same year Shumard and Swallow published a paper containing descriptions of the three first named species under other names in the transactions of the St. Louis Academy of Sciences but that publication was not made until about the first of June.
In December of the same year Hall published in the Geological Report of Iowa Spirifer a rockymontana as S. opimus and in 1860 McChesney published R. rockymontana as R. etoniaformis.
It thus appears clear that Marcou is entitled to priority of all five of the names given above as stated in the synonymy heading the descriptions of those siecies in this report LAMELLIBRANCHIATA.
Myalina swallovi McChesney.
Myalina swallovi McChesney 1860.
New.
False.
Foss. p. 57.
Myalina swallovi Meek and Worthen 1866.
Geol.
111. II p. 341.
Giant mine  not common  some of those obtained are in an excellent state of preservation.
Aviculopecten coxanus Meek and Worthen.
Aviculopeden coxanus Meek and Worthen 1860.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. p. 453.
Aviculopecten coxanus Meek and Worthen 1866.
Geology 111. vol.
II p. 326.
Of this little species six good specimens have been obtained at the Pioneer mine  none of them are larger than that figured by Meek and Worthen loc.
cit.
Aviculopecten negleotus Geinitz.
 Pecten neglectus Geinitz 1866.
Carb.
und Dyas in Netraska p 33.
Aviculopecfen neglectus Meek and Wortlien 1873.
Geol.
111.  vol.
V p. 589.
The specimens referred to this species are somewhat larger than either of those figured by Geinitz or Meek and Worthen but otherwise correspond in every particular.
It is without ornamentation excepting concentric lines of growth and the folds or wrinkles of the ear.
Nuculana bellistriata Stevens.
Leda bellistriata Stevens 1858.
Am.
Jour.
Sci. 2nd series vol.
XXV p. 261.
Nuculana bellistriata White 1884.
Geol.
Kep.
Ind.
for 1883 p. 146.
At Des Moines this species is not common but in the black shales oyerlying the workable coal seams at Van Meter in Dallas county it is very abundant often being found in  nests  closely packed together.
ITucula parva McChesney.
NuGula parva McChesney 1860.
Disc.
New False.
Foss. p. 54.
Nucula parva Meek and Worthen 1873.
Geol.
111. vol.
V p. .
589.
Giant mine  quite rare.
Owing to its small size it might easily escape notice and this fact may partly account for the apjiarent rarity of this sjecies.
Nucula ventricosa Hall.
Nucula ventricosa Hall 1858.
Geol.
Iowa vol.
I pt.
ii p 716.
Nucula ventricosa White 1884.
Geol.
Kep.
Ind.
for 1883 p. 146.
Many of the specimens collected exhibit the internal characters of the shell  the characteristic and well defined muscular impressions and the small prominent teeth along the hinge line.
Schizodus sp.
und.
This genus is represented by casts which occur in nodules of iron pyrites but the specific characters have not as yet been made out.
Clinopistha radiata Hall.
Edmondiaf radiata Hall 1858.
Geol.
Iowa vol.
I p. 716.
Clinopistha radiata Meek and Worthen 1870.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. p. 44.
Some of the Des Moines specimens exhibit no radiating strise Thateverthough the concentric lines of growth are often quite conspicuous.
Inasmuch as the smooth forms and those having distinct 16 radiating strire and between the two extremes every degree of gradation occur associated it is questionable whether the variety Icevis M. and AV.
can be considered as having even the value of a variety  but is to be regarded rather as an individual and not a. varietal difference.
Solenomya soleniformis Cox.
Solenomya solenlfonnis Cox 1857.
Geol.
Sur.
Kentucky vol.
III p. 573.
At the Giant mine the form which is here referred to the species described in the Kentucky Geological report vol.
Ill p. 573 is not common  it is considerably larger than that figured by Cox but otherwise corresponds in all other observable particulars.
It is by far the largest lamellibranch yet found at Des Moines but the shell is very thin and easily detached from the matrix.
GASTEROPODA.
Dentalium meekianum Geinitz.
Dentalmm meekianum Geinitz 1866.
Carb.
und Dyas in Ne braska p. 13.
Dentalium meekianum f Meek and Worthen 1873.
Geol.
111. vol.
V p. 590.
This species is represented by numerous specimens but none of them having both extremities perfectly preserved.
The ornamentation in some of the specimens is well preserved in others it is obsolete and a few are perfectly glabrate.
Dentalium annulostriatum Meek and Worthen.
Dentalium f annulostriatum Meek and Worthen 1870.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. p. 45.
Dentalium f annulostriatum Meek and Worthen 1873.
Geol.
111. vol.
V p. 589.
This species is represented by six specimens  in four of these the charactei'istic annular costre are very prominent and the furroAVS separating the costse are correspondingly quite deep.
Bellerophon percarinatus Conrad.
Bellerophon percarinatus Conrad 1842.
Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. vol.
VIII.
Bellerophon percarinatus Meek 1872.
U. S. Geol.
Sur.
Nebraska p. 227.
Rather common and in a fine state of preservation.
It is associated with the two other congeneric species here mentioned.
Belleroplion monfortianus Norwood and Pratten.
Bellerophon monfortianus Norwood and Pratten 1855.
Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. vol.
Ill p. 74.
Bellerophon monfortianus Geinitz 1866.
Carb.
und Dyas in Nebraska p. 8.
Giant mine a highly ornamented species but not as common as its associated congeners.
Bellerophon urii Fleming.
Belleroplion urii Fleming 1828.
Brit.
Anim. p. 338.
Bellerophon urii Keferst 1834.
Naturg.
des Erdk. II p. 430.
B. urii Phillips 1836.
Geol.
Yorks. II p. 31 pi.
17 figs.
1112.
B. atlantoides d'Orbigny 1840.
Monog.
des Cephalop.
Cryptodibr. pi.
4 figs.
1419.
B. urii Phillips 1841 Palae.
Foss.
Cornwall etc. p. 106 pi.
xl fig.
199.
B. tirii d'Arch.
et de Vern 1842.
Geol.
Trans. 2 vol.
VI pt.
ii p. 386.
B. urii Fleming et Portlock 1843.
Rep. on the Geol.
of the County of Lond. p. 400 pi.
XXIX fig.
9.
B. cVOrhlgnyi Portlock 1843.
Rep. Geol.
Lond. p. 401 pi.
XXIX fig.
12.
B.
Euphemus urii McCoy 1844.
Syn.
Carb.
Fos.
Ireland p. 26.
B. urii de Koninck 1844.
Descriptions des Animaux Fossiles de Belgique p. 356 pi.
XXX fig.
4. .
B. urii J. Morris 1854.
Cat.
Brit.
Fossils p. 288.
 B. urii Norwood and Pratten 1854.
Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. vol.
Ill p. 75 pi.
IX fig.
6.
B. urii McCoy 1855.
Brit.
False.
Foss. p. 555.
B. carbonarius Cox 1857.
Palaeont.
Rep. Ky. Geol.
Sur. vol.
Ill p. 562.
B. blaneyanus McChesney 1860.
New False.
Foss. p. 60.
B. urii F. Romer 1863.
Zeitschr.
d. d. geol.
Ges. vol.
XV p. 582 taf.
XV f. 4.
B. carbonarius Geinitz 1866.
Carb.
und Dyas in Nebraska p. 6 tab.
i fig.
8.
B. blaneyamis McChesney 1867.
Trans.
Chicago Acad.
Sci. vol.
I p. 45 pi.
ii fig.
5.
B. urii Armstrong 1871.
Trans.
Geol.
Soc.
Glasgow vol.
Ill supp.
p. 61.
B. carhonanus Meek 1872.
U. S. Geol.
Sur.
Nebraska p. 224 pi.
iv fig.
16  et pi.
xi tig.
11.
B. urii de Kouiiick 1873.
Recherches sur les Auimaux Fossiles p. 98 pi.
iv tig.
2.
B. carbonarius White 1884.
Geol.
and Nat.
His.
Sur.
Indiana 13 rep. p. 158 pi.
xxxiii figs.
6 7 8.
Abundant at the Giant mine.
The shell is of medium size  subglobose  dorsum broadly rounded.
Umbilici closed.
Aperture transversely semilunate but not expanding more rapidly than the uniform increase in the size of the volutions imier lip but slightly developed  outer lip thickened and rounded towards the umbilici but becoming very attenuated towards the middle  its medial sinus rather broad rounded and not very deep.
Medial band obscure on the costate portion of the shell but on the terminal half of the body whorl more or less distinct and in some specimens bordered on each side by a low narrow yet well defined ridge.
Surface except the last half of the outer whorl ornamented with from fifteen to thirty or more sharp simple nearly 2arallel costa.
Terminal half of body whorl smooth except along the medial portion which is often marked by lines of growth and sometimes by the low ridges to which reference has already been made.
The form considered here under the name of Bellerophon urii is the one usually designated by American palaontologists as B. carbonco'lus Cox.
A careful comparison of the descriptions and figures of the various writers on this group of Gasteropoda and a large series of specimens fails to furnish any valid reason for separating specifically the American from the European form described by Fleming in 1828 as Bellerophon nrii.
Norwood and Pratten referred Cox's specimens to B. nrii  but Cox in 1857 made it the type of a species Avhich he called B. carbonarius distinguishing it from the European form by the slight lateral expansion of the mouth and particularly by the less number of revolving costje which in B. carbonarius Avere said to vary fi'om nineteen to twentyfive while according to deKoninck B. urii had from thirtysix to thiityeight.
Though de Koninck does make this latter statement in his earlier work his later Recherches' state that the number varies from twentytwo to thirty.
McChesney in the description of his B. blaneyamis seems also to have made the chief distinctive character between his 1 Descriptions des Animaux Fossiles p. 356.
1844.
' Recherches sur les Animaux Fossiles p. 9S.
1873.
species and the European foi'm the possession by the former of only sixteen eostse or about half the number ascribed to B. urii by de Koninck.
Pleurotomaria brazoensis Shumard.
Pleurotomaria brazoensis Shumard 1860.
Trans.
St. Louis Acad.
Sci. vol.
I p. 624.
Pleurotomaria brazoensis f Meek and Worthen 1866.
Geol.
111. vol.
II p. 354.
The specimens of this species collected do not present much variation.
The two peripheral carinse are nearly equal and between them is located the concave band of the sinus.
The whorls are ornamented by sixteen or seventeen strong filiform lines  nine below the lower carina upon which there are two filiform lines  three above the upper carina upon which there are two and sometimes three lines and a single line on the sinal band.
Crossing the revolving lines are numerous prominent equidistant transverse lines which give to the whole ornamentation a peculiarly yet regularly cancellated appearance  between and parallel to these transverse raised strise are also from three to six microscopic yet sharp and distinct raised strice.
Meek and Worthen refer with a query to Shumard's species a form from Macoupin county Illinois having about twentyfive revolving lines twelve of which occupy the lower side of the bodyAvhorl instead of thirteen or fourteen as ascribed by Shumard to this species.
Shumard says   surface of volutions ornamented with from thirteen to fourteen rather strong filiform strise which are crossed by sharp transverse strise   if by this he intends to convey the idea that this is the entire number of lines including those on the under side of the boly whorl Meek and AVorthen remark that they  should scarcely entertain a doubt in regard to our their shell being a distinct species since it uniformly has about double that number of revolving strise on the last whorl.
In this and some other groups of gasteropods much classificatory importance appears to have been attached to the number of revolving costse  and sometimes a variation of three or four in the number has been almost the only basis for specific distinction.
After a critical examination of a large series of different species presenting these characters the question has arisen relative to the value of the number of costse as a classificatory criterion.
In some gasteropodous groups it has within certain limits of course small value  its exact importance in Pleurotomaria and some allied genera has not as yet been satisfactorily made out but it is certain however that in some groups at least it does not possess specifically such an important classificatory value as has been generally supposed.
Pleurotomaria modesta nov. sp.
Plate XII figs.
2a 2b.
Shell small sublenticular spire greatly depressed volutions six obliquely flattened above body whorl very large rapidly increasing in size sharply angular on the periphery flattened or very slightly concave above prominently rounded below suture line linear  spiral band very narrow almost linear very slightly impressed and occupying a position just above the peripheral angle  on the spire the band is obscured by a single series of conspicuous nodes  aperture subquadrate or subrhombic  umbilical region slightly impressed but not perforated  surfjice glabrate  under a glass exhibiting fine lines of groAvth  the last whorl with a series of small transverse folds or wrinkles toward the tuberculated margin  each fold apparently originating at a node and extending about onehalf or twothirds the distance to the periphery.
Twenty or more specimens of this beautiful little species have been obtained from the black superimposing shales of coal No.
3.
It approaches more closely than to any other the form described by Cox as P. depressa and may eventually prove identical with that form.
P. depressa however was preoccupied by Phillips in 1836 and this name was also used by de Koninck and by Passy.
Pleurotomaria grayvillensis Norwood and Pratten.
Pleurotomaria grayvillensis Norwood and Pratten 1855.
Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. vol.
Ill p. 75.
Pleurotomaria grayvillensis Geinitz 1866.
Carb.
und Dyas in Nebraska p. 9.
Shell rather small conical subovate longer than wide  spire moderately elevated  whorls five to seven obliquely flattened above.
Body whorl large rapidly increasing in size rounded below  biangular around the periphery both angles being visible on the spire.
Aperture subrhombic  outer margin sharp.
Columella extended below.
Surface ornamented by from twentyfive to forty revolving lines of which twenty or more occupy the inferior surface of the body whorl  some of the lines are much more prominent than others and there is a more or less regular alternation of the more prominent ones with less prominent raised stride these are crossed by numerous somewhat regular lines of growth giving a more or less tuberculate appearance which is most conspicuous toward the suture.
The number of raised revolving lines appears to vary with the size of the specimens and the maximum given is for the largest specimens collected.
This species was originally described from Pasey county Indiana and Grayville Illinois.
Pleurotomaria carbonaria Norwood and Pratten.
Pleurotoviaria carbonaria Norwood and Pratten 1855.
Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 2 vol.
Ill p. 76.
This is by far the largest gasteropod yet discovered at Des Moines and the test as compared with that of the associated species is extremely thick and heavy.
A closely allied species has been described from the coal measures at Newport Indiana as P. newporteusis White.
According to Dr. White it differs from P. carbonaria in having  its revolving band ample and raised instead of concave with revolving lines within it as in that species  and also in having its aperture subcircular instead of semicircular.
Macrocheilus humilis nov. sp.
Plate XII fig.
1.
Shell very small short subfusiform or elongatesubovate  spire jrominent forming onethird or more of the entire length of the shell  volutions about six increasing moderately in size slightly convex.
Test rather thin.
Columellar fold distinctly visible within the aperture which is subelliptical  callosity clearly defined but not conspicuous  outer lip thin sharp.
Suture welldefined but not deeply impressed.
Surface smooth but under a glass exhibiting lines of growth.
Length 6 mm.
 width 3'5 mm.
This little species is from the superimposing black shales of coal No.
3 at the Giant mine  and is found associated with the numerous other small gasteropods mentioned hereafter Macrocheilus gracilis Cox.
Macrocheilus gracilis Cox 1857.
Geol.
Sur Kentucky vol.
III p. 570 The roof shale of coal No.
3 has furnished a good series of this species representing all stages of development up to those fifteen millimetres in length.
The smaller specimens are less ventricose and have the spire proportionally higher than in the older ones which approach nearer the form described as M. ventricosus Hall and there is therefore reason to believe that the two species will eventually prove identical.
Cox states in his description that his .species was most likely a young shell.
White considers Soleuiscus 1 Geol.
Ind. Rep. for 1883 p. 155.
Macrocheilus brevis White described in the supplement to voL III of the Expl.
and Surv.
west of the 100 merid.
synonymous with M. ventricosus Hall.
Macrocheilus newberryi Stevens.
Loxonema newberryi Stevens 1858.
Am.
Jour.
Sci 2 vol.
XXV.
p. 259.
Macrocheilus newberryi Hall 1858.
Geol.
Iowa. vol.
I p. 719.
The specimens collected at Des Moines present considerable variation  some are typical M. neivberryi from which others gradate into forms more nearly approaching that described by Hall from Alpine Dam as 31. fusiformis  hence their identity is not improbable.
This is also in corroboration with the suggestion of Dr. White in the Indiana geological report for 1883 that  with full collections at hand it will be difficult to clearly define the specific characters between M. newberryi 31. planus and 31.
fusiformis.
Orthonema conica Meek and Worthen.
Orihonema conica Meek and Worthen 1866.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. p. 270.
Orthonema conica Meek and Worthen 1873.
Geology 111. vol.
V p. 390.
This species is represented by only two specimens both somewhat smaller than those figured by Meek and Worthen.
Actaeonia minuta Stevens.
Loxonema minvta Stevens 1858.
Am.
Jour.
Sci. 2 vol.
XXV p. 260.
Actoeonia minuta Meek and Worthen 1873.
Geol.
111. vol.
V p. 594.
This is one of the most abundant of the small gasteropods occurring in the bituminous shales overlying coal No.
3.
Aclisina minuta Stevens.
Aclis minuta Stevens 1858.
Am.
Jour.
Sci. 2 vol.
XXV p. 259.
Common  associated with A. robusta compared with which it is much more slender and the spire possesses three or four more volutions.
Aclisina robusta Stevens.
Aclis robusta Stevens 1858.
Am.
Jour.
Sci. 2 vol.
XXV p. 259.
AcUs robusta Meek and Worthen 1873.
Geol.
111. vol.
V p. 596.
Abundant.
This and the preceding species were described by Stevens under Aclis but in 1881 de Koniuck established the genus Aclmna which now includes the four American carboniferous species originally described under the former genus.
Streptacis whitfieldi Meek.
Streptacis whitfieldi Meek 1871.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. p. 173.
Streptacis xoUtfieldi Meek and Worthen 1873.
Geol.
111. vol.
V p. 596.
This species is very rare and is found associated with the four preceding species.
Anomphalus rotulus Meek and Worthen.
Anomphalus rotulus Meek and Worthen 1866.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. p. 268.
Anomphalus rotulus Meek and Worthen 1873.
Geol.
111. vol.
V p. 597.
One of the most abundant species occurring in superimposing shales of coal No.
3.
In some of the specimens there is a tendency to become angular around the periphery toward the terminus of the bodywhorl.
Euomphalus rugosus Hall.
Euomphalus rugosus Hall 1858.
Geol.
Iowa vol.
I p. 722.
Straparollus Euomphalus subrugosus Meek and Worthen 1873.
Geol.
111. vol.
V p. 607.
Euomphalus rugosus White 1884.
13th Kep.
Geol.
Indiana p. 161.
This species is quite common.
Euomphalus pernodosus Meek and Worthen.
Straparollus Euomphalus pernodosus Meek and Worthen 1870.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. p. 45.
Straparollus Euomjhalus pernodosus Meek and Worthen 1873.
Geol.
111. vol.
V p. 604.
But a single specimen of this large Euomphalus has been found at Des Moines.
CEPHALOPODA.
Orthoceras rushensis McChesney.
Orthoceras rushensis McChesney 1860.
New Palse.
Fossils p. 68.
Orthoceras rushensis AVliite 1884.
Geol.
Report Ind.
for 1883 p. 164.
Specimens of this and perhaps other species often occur quite abundantly.
The specific characters of the described species of this genus are so obscure that all attempts to separate many of the socalled species prove futile.
A careful comparison of the carboniferous forms Avill doubtless lead to a considerable increase in the synonymy of this group and a reduction of the number of species to four or five.
Orthoceras sp.
und.
A single specimen from the Pioneer mine  it is nearly 50 cm.
in length and has a diameter at the larger extremity of about 5 cm.
It is by far the largest specimen of this genus yet observed in the carboniferous rocks of Iowa.
Nautilus lasallensis Meek and Worthen.
Nautilm lasallensis Meek and Worthen 1866.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. p. 261.
Nautilus lasallensis Meek and Worthen 1873.
Geol.
111. vol.
V p. 610.
Quite common at the Giant mine  but few of the specimens are in a very good state of preservation.
Nautilus oocidentalis Swallow.
Nautilus occidentalis Swallow 1858.
Trans.
St. Louis Acad.
Sci. vol.
I p. 196.
Nautilus quadrangularis McChesney 1860.
Disc.
New.
Palse.
Foss. p. 65 Nautilus nodocarinatus McChesney 1860.
Disc.
New False.
Fos. p. 66.
Nautilus hiserialis Hall 1860.
Geol.
Iowa Supp. p. 92.
Nautilus occidentalis McChesney 1867.
Trans.
Chicago Acad.
Sci. p. 57.
Only a single specimen has thus far been found at Des Moines.
Nautilus winslovi Meek and Wortlien.
Nautilus Teimiocheilus winslovi Meek and Worthen 1870.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. p. 50.
Nautilus TemnocJieilus' winslovi Meek and Wortlien 1873.
Geol.
Ill vol.
V p. 609.
Nautilus ivinslovi White 1884.
Geol.
Ind. Kept for 1883 p. 165.
Not common and usually fragmentary.
CRUSTACEA.
Cythere nebracensis Geinitz.

Cythere nebracensis Geinitz 1866.
Carb.
und Dyas in Nebraska p. 2.
It is with some doubt that the form from Des Moines is referred to Geinitz's species  it is much smaller than that Avhich he described and also differs in other particulars.
A dozen or more good specimens were collected at the Pioneer mine where they were associated with Synocladia biserialit.
This and a trilobite are the only crustacean remains thus far discovered in the carboniferous strata at Des Moines.
The remains of articulates in the lower coal measures of Iowa are exceedingly rare and the only hitherto known specimens of this group are more or less fragmentary remains of a single genus of trilobites.
Prior to this ostracoid crustaceans have been collected in Iowa in the upper and middle coal measures and now is recorded their presence in the strata of the lower coal measures of the state.
Phillipsia sp.

Of the trilobites only a single pygidium of a Phillipsia has been collected and this at the Pioneer mine.
VERTEBRATA.
Petrodus occidentalis Newberry and Worthen.
Petrodus occidentalis Newberry and Worthen 1866.
Geol.
111. vol.
Ill p. 70.
From the Pioneer mine have been collected nearly all the remains of fishes that have been found in the carboniferous strata of this region.
It is with some little doubt that the dermal tubercles that are here referred to this species really belong to it.
The base is subquadrate in outline and the thin abruptly sharpened edge is broader than in the one figured by Newberry and Worthen  the ridges extending downward towards the obtuse angles of the base are much more prominent than the others which do not extend to the top of the crown.
There has also been collected at this mine the fin spines of two species  one about two centimeters and the other four centimeters in length  the former is the more common and in a veryperfect state of preservation.
Diplodus sp.

From the superimposing shales of coal No.
3 at the Giant mine.
The specific characters of the teeth collected have not been satisfactorily made out.
They are evidently not far removed from D. amplicattis M. and Worthen but the denticles are larger more slender and much longer than in that species.
Synoptical Table of Genera and Species.
Coelenterata Polypi genera 1 species 1 Echinodermata Crinoidea 1 1 Vermes j Brachiopoda 9 14  Bryozoa 1 1 JLamellibranchiata 7 9 Gasteropoda 10 20 Cephalopoda 2 5 Crustacea.
2 2 Vertebrata 2 2 Summing up the predominant faunal features as presented in the accompanying synoptical table it appears 1 that in those groups having an optimum habitat marine there was not only a fewness of species but also an extreme paucity of individuals  2 that braehiopods though well represented in both genera and species were in fact not as proportionately abundant as might be expected when it is remembered that this type of life had now nearly reached its greatest expansion and culmination and 3 that the fauna was predominately molluscan  nearly twothirds of the entire number of species.
The Coelenterata Bryozoa and Echinodermata form indeed a very inconspicuous proportion of this local fauna only three or four specifically distinguishable traces of each group being obtained.
Though the Brachiopoda are represented by fourteen species included in nine genera they were with three exceptions of comparatively rare occurrence  Productus murieatus Chonetes mesoloha and D'iscina nitida only being abundant.
The brachiopods are also all depauperate attesting conditions at the time that they lived extremely unfavorable to their full development and to the attainment of a normal size that under more congenial circumstances would have been rendered possible.
Molluscan life while the black shales forming the roof of coal No.
3 were being laid down flourished luxuriantly especially the gasteropods which in number of species composed more than onethird of the entire fauna.
Not only did they exceed in species but they far outnumbered all others in individuals and while as a rule they were small and some of them even minute their great numbers made up in great part at least for the conspicuity of larger but few forms.
Though the majority of the forms of this group are small it is not a depauperation as among the brachiopods as is shown by the average size of the individuals of each species being normal and in some instances even considerably above.
Some of the species are also of interest because of their recognition for the first time within the limits of the state and thus to a considerable extent their known geographical range is increased.
Others of the species enumerated are now known to have a wide geographical distribution which is suggestive of a somewhat extended vertical range.
Among recent mollusca and especially land forms a wide geographical distribution as has been remarked by Binney appears to be indicative of a high antiquity for the group.
The corroborative evidence is abundant  a notable instance is the living Zonites four or more species of which are circumpolar in their distribution and the genus  even a subgenus Conulus to which one of these living forms belongs  ranges back to the carboniferous Avhile the genus Pupa is represented in the carboniferous by four species.
Cephalopods are not abundant in the region under consideration and are represented by only two genera and five species yet a Nautilus attained a diameter of twenty centimetres and an Orthoceras was fifty centimetres in length with a diameter at the larger extremity of five centimetres.
Of the lamellibranchs the majority are small though two of them are comjiaratively large attaining a length of nearly ten centimetres yet having an extremely thin and fragile shell.
One of the specimens collected is of especial significance as exhibiting in all its details the intetnal features of the shell the characteristic welldefined muscular scars and the edentulous hinge margin  in fact so closely does it resemble in these characters the general form and external appearance a modern Anodonta that it is difficult to see how it can be generically separated from it  and should further investigation prove that the specimens under consideration really belong to that genus it would be of unusual interest in its bearing upon the distribution of freshwater or nonmarine mollusca during geologic times.
The modern TJnio and allied genera certainly have both a wide geographical and geological distribution as is shown by the rich discoveries of Unionidee in the Mesozoic strata of the west  and the genus Anodonta is if the opinion of Hall is adhered to represented in the Devonian by two species but that these two forms really belong to Anodonta is still questioned.
Dawson has described several allied forms from the carboniferous of Nova Scotia  their family position is as yet also unsettled.
With these considerations in view the evidence thus far obtained points to a high antiquity for this group of bivalves which now is so abundantly represented in all our streams and ponds.
As will be noted Crustaceans are represented by a species of Cythere  and a trilobite of which a single pygidium only has been discovered.
Vertebrates are rare also a few fish spines about two centimetres in length and several teeth and dermal tubercles are the only remains of this class found.
