THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE COLORMARKS OF THE Mammalia BY HARRISON AELEN M. D. The variations in the colors of the hair and the skin are of a character and importance vhich warrant a systematic study.
I have ventured to fornuilate my impressions on this subject and wliile departing in some degree from the directions.of approach which zoologists have developed I have not I trust stated the case without due regard to the views of others on this perplexing phase of observation.
My main object has been to contemplate color marks as the result of nutritive processes controlled by recognized biological forces both in health and disease.
I Avill not hesitate to treat of a perverted growth in the human subject as comparable to a normal growth in any member of the mammalian series.
Statements will be made respecting the distribution of colors of hair the superficial color or rather the effect of the main color of the hair upon the eye being here intended of the colors of pigment marks on the skin of localized hypertrohies and atrophies of vibrissie of pilose and naked warts as though they were coordinates of equal value.
I have examined the museums at Philadelphia New York NewHaven and Washington.
I have consulted the illustrations of works on Natural History and have made extended observations on the domesticated animals especially of dogs horses cattle guinealigs and rabbits.
Tlie conclusions drawn at this time have stood the test of repeated reexaminations and while they are not all susceptible of being held as rigid deductions from the premises they present I think a group of tenets which may prove of interest to working zoologists.
The subject of distribution of the hair in the human subject has received attention from D. F. Eschricht and C. A. Voigt. Both writers have taken the newborn child as a standard and have described the directions of the hair in two Avays  first as it is  This paper is an elaboration of a portion of an essay which constituted the presidential address at the annual meeting of the American Society of Naturalists December 1887.
2 Miiller's Archiv.
1837 Vol.
IV 37.
3 Denkschr.
Wein.
Akad.
d. Wissenschaft.
1857 Vol.
XII III Abth.
p. 1. observed radiating from certain points and second as it is seen to converge to certain points.
The following are the main points of radiation.
The parietal bone a short distance to the right of the obeleou and the axilla.
The parietal centres may be symmetrical.
The following are the main points of convergence.
The head at the obeleon and directly above the auricle  the face at the inner end of the eyebrow and at the root of the nose  the neck over the centre of the hyoid bone  the sternum at its upper third  the abdomen at the summit of the bladder  the under surface of the penis at the base  the nape of the neck on each side of the vertebral column  the trunk over the lower part of the coccyx  the side of the trunk  the arm at the insertion of the deltoid muscle  the elbow at the obcranon  the wrist at the head of the ulna  the ilium over the anterior superior process the thigh at the lower end of the femoral artery and the ham at the inner border.
It will be found in the course of the ensuing statements that the points of convergences are often found associated with the regions of markings which contrast with the groundcolor.
Thus the obeleon is the site of brown or black spots in the dog  in the same animal the tancolored wart is found in black and tan dogs  the centre of the hyoid bone is also the centre of the gular white or gorget in many carnivorous and quadrumanous animals  the sternal point is often white in the horse and dog  the lower end of the back at the sacrum and coccyx is black or brown in ordinarily particolored dogs  the insertion of the deltoid is the lower end of the epauletteregion which is frequently of a contrasted color to that of the rest of the limb  the spot over the head of the ulna is in the line of the fringe of the foreleg in the setterdog and in some lemurs.
The nape of the neck the root of the nose the summit of the bladder the base of the penis the olecranon the anterior prominence of the ilium the femoral point and the inner border of the ham are not found associated with colormarks.
These cannot in turn be entirely separated according to Eschricht from being in the line of union of parts Avhich unite late in the development of the foetus.
A complicated disposition at the upper lip is held by the same writer to result from the union of the right and left halves at the median line.
Some points as for example the olecranon and the iliac process answer to bony surfaces which are near the skin.
The femoral point is also the region at which the long saphenous nerve pierces the fascia.
The point on the side of the trunk is associated with the naked trunk surfaces of birds and the colored area in Indris brevicaudatus
See infra.'
In men who are notably hairy the cases of universal hypertrichosis are not here included the hair is chiefly devehped on the breast and the anterior wall of the abdomen at its upper parton the region over the trapezius muscle near the scapulaand on the lower part of the loin and the shoulder.
In a number of examinations I have made of hirsute men I have never found the teeth defective unless a disposition to universal hypertrichosis was present.
This disposition is shown in addition to the dental defect by great shagginess and looseness of contour of the eyebrows.
They meet across the interorbital space and straggle off toward the temjioral side of the forehead.
The best marked of the naked places of the body in the hirsute men are the forehead and the side of the trunk.
Eschricht mentions having found but a single example of the trunk being naked at the side.
His observations appear to have been made in Copenhagen and may perhaps exhibit a national peculiarity.
In America I am sure such naked places are frequently seen.
I can confirm Eshricht's statement that hirsute individuals usually have black hair are of stalwart build and do not of necessity have strong beards or more than ordinary growths from the head.
An instructive analogy can be detected to exist between the naked surfaces on the sides of the trunk and the great lateral featherless spaces apterylia of most birds.
Above I have invited attention to the fact that in Indris brevicaudatusthe side of the trunk possesses hair of a different color from that covering the ventre or the dorsum.
The literature of the subject of colormarks is scanty.
The papers here given in abstract are of importance.
Th.
Eimer believes the striped forms of the mammalia antedated the spotted and the retention of color obey phylogenetic laws.
He traces the markings of Viverra through the varieties of the genus Canis
Faint traces of the transverse marks of Hyena can be detected in the wolf The black spot at the root of the tail is mentioned as occurring in all dogs.
The presence of a dorsal stripe is mentioned as being commonly present.
In vertebrates generally the posterior parts of the body is more strongly marked than the anterior.
This is evident in mammals though less marked than in the lower classes.
 American Museum of Natural History at New Vorl No.
260.
2 Zool.
Anzeiger 1882 V. 685 1883 690.
The transverse body stripes are the highest form of development of a bodymark and succeeds in phylogeny the series of dottedmarks.
This order is the reverse of that suggested by Darwin.
A paper by G. T. Rope' describes two varieties of coloring in the English form of the domestic cat viz  transverse stripes or rows of dots on a white ground and white markings of a more or less longitudinal direction on a black ground.
The following list includes the arrangement of the subjectmatter of the present essay.
1.
The  break  from the prevailing or ground color compared with the positions at which hair is retained in nearly hairless animals.
2.
Briudles.
3.
The regions in which colormarks are found regularly disposed.
These are  the dorsal line of the trunk  the back of the neck  the the dorsifacial line  the ventre and limbs  the ulnar border of the foreleg  the axilla and pudenda  the collar the regions of the special senses  the sides of the body  the regions of nerveendings  nuiscleregions  regions which are rich in seba and moisture.
4.
The effects of age.
5.
Bilaterality.
6.
Anteroposterior symmetry.
1.
The Break from the ground Color or prevalent Color compared avith the Positions at which Hair is retained IN NEARLESS HAIRLESS Animals.
 When an animal of a single color changes even in a slight degree the uniformity of the tint the new color will appear in an order definite enough for the variety species and sometimes for the family to which the animal belongs.
A black gray or chestnut colored dog when thus changing almost invariably has a white spot appear at one of the following localities  The tip of the tail the breast the dorsal surfaces of the feet and the tips of the ears.
I have observed these changes in the New Foundland dog the greyhound the Irish setter and the collie.
In the sunbear  Ursus malayanus the prevailing black is relieved by a crescentic whitishyellow spot on the breast.
Sarcophilus when varying from its prevalent color exhibits a spot of white in the same region.
Horses having white feet and a white 1 Zoolagist 1881353.
 According to Gervais the first white appears at the tip of the tail.
G. T. Rope Zoologist 1881 353 states that where only a very minute portion of white occurs it is most likely to be found on the chest.
star on the breast while the remainder of the bodies are dark are objects of common observation.
It cannot be an accidental circumstance that animals that are nearly hairless retain sparse clumps in the same localities.
Rhinoceros lasiotis is hairless except at the tip of the tail the dorsal surfaces of the feet and the tips of the ears.
Rhinoceros indicus shows the same peculiarities to a less marked extent.
In Elephas the tip of tail is similarly furnished.
In the Mexican variety of the socalled hairless dog the same regions named in Rhinoceros are alone hairy.
In another variety the breast is furnished with an abundant growth of hair.
Men who are more than usually hairy yet who do not belong to the grouj of univei'sal hypertrichosis possess hair on the pectoral region and are apt to have a sparse growth of hair at the upper margin of the auricle and a similar but separate line of hair along the posterior border as well as a patch on the loin or near the coccyx in the median line of the trunk.
It may be said that the regions named tend to behave differently from the prevailing disposition in hairnutrition.
In breaking from a uniform color these regions present a contrasted color and the same regions tend to retain hair which elsewhere for the most part is lost.
But it must be acknowledged that in animals which are for the most part hairless clumps are seen which do not belong to the above category.
These are discussed under other heads.
See hair at junction of limbs to trunk p. 94 hairs on dorsal line p. 89 hair at nerve ends.
p. 98 2.
Bkindles.
 In some animals the break from the prevalent color assumes another disposition of a widely spread character.
I allude to the plan by which the entire pelt is covered by alternations of black with brown or chestnut  these embrace the brindles.
The wolf Cams lujyus is often a brindle.
Many varieties of dogs e. g. some of the mastiffs and bull dogs are brindles.
It is often seen in the female of the domestic cat.
The prevalent color remaining black the break is seen in dogs to take place to tan and to be localized to the feet to the supraorbital hair clumps and to the hairy wart on the side of the face.
The prevalent color being white black sjiots are apt to have tan margins as is well seen in the fox terrier.
3.
The regions in which ColorMarks are found regularly DISPOSED.
 I will now treat of the manner in which the color of a hue which is contrasted to the prevalent color is apt to occur along definite lines or regions of the body.
The Dorsal line of the Trunk.
The Hue of the dorsal spines of the Tertebral column iucludiug the head as far as the parietal foramina is one of the most instructive of these.
The black line in the ass and the horse has especially received the attention of Darwin.
Prof. Jno.
Ryder'' detected a doi'sal arrangement of hairs in an embryo of the domesticated cat.
It retains the same color in many carnivores.
In the domestic cat two pairs of black stripes are often found on either side.
In domesticated cattle these are supplanted by a white line.
In piebald rats the stripe is commonly black.
Lemur collaris has a prevalent squirrel gray color while the head is black and a black spot is seen at the root of the tail on the dorsal surface.
In Propithecus diadema a conspicuous dorsal line is continuous with a black sacral region and tail.
In Lemur varius the same character of dorsal line is seen as in the foregoing animal but is not so marked.
In the particolored Lndris hrevlcaudatus' the region of the back of the sacrum is distinguished from the rest of the fur by being a uniform dull ochreous hue  a hue unlike that met with in any other region of the body.
In Propithecus verreauxi coquerelii the dorsum near the lower part of the thorax is marked by a dark spot which is in contrast to the surrounding color.
The sacrum and loin are of a dirty gray color.
In animals which exhibit spots on the line which are in contrast to the prevalent color the retained colors may be looked upon as persistencies which for some reason have resisted the forces which have displaced the line itself.
Such a view is in harmony with Darwin's statement that dappled and spotted animals were originally striped.
One of the numerous forms of Lemur varius exhibits a white circle at the base of the tail the prevalent color being light brown.
This does not of necessity correlate with the dark sacral spot.
But distinctive kinds of marking at the root of the tail in the dog are of the same signifi1 These are persistent in the human cranium near the sagittal suture a short iistance in advance of the lamdoidal suture.
2 Animals under Domestication pov.
3 Proc.
of Acad of Nat.
Sci.
1887 56.
 American Museum of Natural History at New York.
5 Ibid.
No.
263.
6 Ibid.
No.
266.
1 Ibid.
No.
260.
8 Ibid.
No.
973.
3 Animals under domestication I. p.
6o.Eng.
Ed.
cauce as the sacral spot.
In Dldelphys a dark pigment ring eneircle the base of the tail.
In roan horses a white ring is occasionally found which also encircles the base of the tail.
In Thijlaeinus Felis matndHtjcna striata Minneeohlns and in someof the viverrine genera the line is interrupted and a number of saddle marks are seen which are best marked posteriorly.
In the dog when the black and tan colors are bred out as in the English setter the bull terrier and the fox terrier the dorsal line is retained only at the sacrum and at the root of the tail.
It often forms an irregular mark which may extend upon the tiaidvs.
In the  Chester reds a variety of hog bred in Eastern Pennsylvania black is persistently bred out yet a small black spot is commonly found at the sacrum.
In Phoca fasciata a broad white band crosses the trunk at the sacral region.
In Cercopithecus diana the greater pai't of the dorsal region and all the sacral region are of a red color which extends downward upon the outer surface of the flank.
This disposition is seen in a number of the quadrumana.
It appears to be repeated in many dogs as already mentioned in which a flank mark is continuous with the sacral spot.
The mark may be homologous with the sacral saddle mark of Thylacinus and Felis tigris In a colony of piebald rats observed at the Zoological Garden Philadelphia the sacral region was black while the prevalent hue Avas white.
I will now attempt to explain the persistence of color marks at the region of the sacrum and the root of the tail though the varieties of the colors themselves are not at present susceptible of demonstration.
In the range of human observation L. Tait' records the frequent possesssion  nearly 45 per cent  of a pit or  sacral dimple over the sacral region in women.
A. Ecker describes the frequent appearance of pits or depressions in the region of the coccyx in the foetus and in newborn infants.
The spot is associated with various pilose conditions.
Max Bartels describes a taillike formation in man from the lower part of the same region.
Virchow fluds the pilose spots coordinated with 1 A. Milne Edwards Recherches sur les Mammiferes Paris 1868 to 1874 PI.
31.
2 Nature 1878 XVIII 481.
3 Archiv.
f. Amhropologie 1880 XII 129.
 Ibid 1881 XIII 1.
5 Zeitsclir f. Ethnologic 1875 VII 280. occasional deformity of the sacral spinal processes and he arrives at the conclusion that the sacral pilosity is often connected with attempts at formation of spina bifida.
Both Tait and Ecker connect the presence of the sacral depression with the formation of an exserted tail.
I make the suggestion that the retention of whiteblack tan or lemon colored patches at the sacral and lumbar region is an evidence in tailed quadrupeds of the great activity of nutritive processes between the superficies and deepseated parts.
It is but a step further and a legitimate step I think to connect the sacral pigment patches with the subject of sacral tumors which has been so ably elucidated by R.
Middeldorpf.'
This writer traces the congenital sacral tumors to retentioncysts of the neuroenteric canal of the embryo as defined by Kowalensky.
The canal is the same as the postanal gut of Balfour.
It has been identified in Ascidians Aviphioxus and in plagiostome and teleostean fishes.
Should the retention of the pigment patch at the superficies of the region where such profound changes are seen to occur be proved to be associated with minor degrees of interference at the same region it follows that in the individuals thus marked minor changes in the sacral elements and possibly in the condition of the lumbar swelling of the spinal cord might be sought for.
The Back of the Neck.
 The region of the back of the neck including the withers is well known to be often furnished with a mane of long or short hair.
It is of interest to note that in a case of trichosis circumscripta recorded by Virchow'' a distinct pilose growth lay over the region of the third and fourth cervical vertebrae.
As already remarked p. 88 the breast may be hairy in an animal which in other respects is nearly naked.
It remains to mention the gnu in which form a pendant growth of hair from the same region is found associated with an animal having short hair  and a long tail furnished with a terminal brush.
The dorsifacial Line.
 The region of the head as far as that of the parietal foraminal belongs to the trunk while that in front is distinctive.
A white median stripe is commonly found in the region last named in particolored dogs.
In some varieties a spot of the prevalent color lies directly at the beginning of the trunkal region near the occiput which interrupts the dorsal white line in the rare instances of its backward prolongation or may be enclosed by it.
Mephitis may exhibit a white spot on the dorsum of the face especially 1 Virchow's Archiv 1885 101 37.
2 Zeitsch f. Ethnologic VII 279. ill the young.
Horses commonly show a white mark the  star in the middle of the forehead between the eyes.
In Cercopithecus a median white spot is often seen on the dorsum of the nose.
The Ventre and Limbs.
 The hair of the under part of the trunk is in all animals less thick than that of the upper and is apt to be of a liofhter shade of color.
The color of the ventre is continuous with the inner sides of the limbs and with the throat where it is apt to pass in Quadrumana to the crown.
The account of the colormarks of the limbs cannot be disassociated from that of the trunk.
The hair of the outer surfaces of the limbs extends to the sides and dorsum of the trunk and neck while the inner surfaces extend to the ventre. 
Stockings by which term is meant patches of white color which pass entirely round the manus or pes above the palm or sole are exceptions to the rule.
The feet of an animal are liable to be of the same color and this color to be black or a break from this color to a contrasted one see p. 88.
In the horse this is notably the case  a bay horse has black feet or exhibits a break from the black color to white.
Both fore and hind feet of the Thibetan hear Ailui'opus melanoleiicus are black the rest of the animal being white wdth faint shades of brown.
The fore foot in mammals is apt to a greater degree than is the case with the hind foot to retain the same color for the arm and the region of the scapula.
This is remarkably well seen in AUuropus in which form the entire fore limb including the shoulder is black while the hind limb and region of pelvis excepting the foot is white.
The region of the scapula in many animals is distinctively patterned as is seen in the tiger Felis tigris and the leopard Felis pardus.
In the dog the prevalent color of the neck and the trunk is rarely continuous over the region of the scapula which is usually of the contrasted color.
The spots on the side of the trunk in white dogs appear to be arrested by the region of the scapula.
A postscapular spot of an opposed color is commonly seen in dogs.
P. Michelson describes cases of trichosls circumscripta in which clumps were found above and below the region of the scapula but not upon it.
I have often found similar clumps in hirsute men.
In the horse and its allies the stripes when sparsely distributed are confined to the region of the scapula or lie in front of it.
The region of the scapula is apt to be white in Pecora.
The region of the shoulder i. e. the region of the humeroscapular joint is separately 1 Virchow's Archiv.
1883 Vol.
C. 66. marked in a number of diverse forms.
In many bats a tuft of white color distinguishes this region.
In the llama camel and bison shaggy tufts of hair adorn it.
Cynocephahis hamadryas exhibits on both shoulders conspicuous growtlis of hair which extend backward.
In a specimen of Cohibns gxierza the shoulder was found furnished with an epaulet of long white hair.
In other examples of this species the epaulet extends backwards.
B. Ornstein describes an instance of trichosis circumscripta in an adult man in which a clump of hair was found on both shoulders.
In Quadrumana the colors of the limbs are apt to be differently disposed from the arrangement in quadrupeds.
In Lemur catta the colors are much like those in lower animals and in all varieties white stockings may be seen in the fore arm and leg.
The inside of the limb is apt to be of a lighter color than the outer.
With this qualification I think I may say that the outer surface and anterior surface of the thigh to a point answering to the proximal third or fourth of the tibia is differently colored in Quadrumana from the leg and the foot.
This is noticeable in Indris hrevicaudatus and Prpithecus verreauxicoquereli.
 The manus is commonly black in Quadrumana.
In Indris hrevieaudatus the outer side of the arm is black while the entire forearm is white.
In the figures of Audebert the separate color marks of the limbs often correspond to the regions of manus forearm arm pes leg and thigh especially for the outer surfaces.
From the well known artistic abilities of Audebert these figures may be accepted as authoritative.'
The xdnar Border of the Foreleg.
 The ulnar border of the foreleg often displays hypernutritive characters.
The disposition is not confined to the mammalia.
In this class the growth is most likely a survival of the natatorial form of foot and is at best an adaptative 1 Am.
Mus.
No.
298.
2 Arch.
f. Anthropologic 1S86 507.
3 Am.
Mu.
No.
260.
 Ibid.
No.
973.
5 Ibid.
No 260.
 L'Histoire Nalurelle des Singes des Makis et des Galeopitheques 1800.
7 C. F. Maynard Quarterly Journ.
Boston Zool.
Soc 1883 II 18 states that in the variety of bear  Ursus Americanus met with in Florida brownish lines are seen starting from the point of each shoulder and extending down the legs on the inside.
This disposition is certainly exceptional.
effort to extend a fold of skin from the sides of the limb.
A skinfold is demonstratable in 3Ienopovia where it is supplied by a branch of a neive as well as in Ernys and its allies.
It is the beginning of the haircovered membrane in the flying squirrel Sciuropterus and in Belideus it is enormously disjlayed in the bat.
The long fringe on the ulnar border of the forearm in the setter dog may be named as an example of its occurrence in a terrestrial mammal.
The fold corresponding to it is not so evident in the hind leg  where it would naturally be sought for on the inner border.
The line of feathers seen in some varieties of the pigeon and of the domestic fowl on the outer border of the leg may be associated with a similar proclivity to that above named.
In a case of trichosis circumscripta recorded by B. Ornstein in an adult male a growth of hairs was found on the ulnar border of the forearm of both sides.
In some species of Quadrumana the hair of the arm and the forearm inclines tow'ard the elbow.
Wallace' and Darwin describe this arrangement in connection with the use made of it by te animal in shedding the water falling upon the flexed limb.
That the hair in Hylobates agilis should be directed toward the wrist is evidently an aberrant arrangement if we are to follow the distribution of the lanugo as outlined by Eschricht and Voigt.
A marked instance of growth of the hair from ulnar border of the forearm and the corresponding border of the arm is met wdth in Propithecus verreauxiicoquerelii. A long brilliant fringe of orange and white colors equals in width the arm at its greatest diameter.
The Axilla and Pudenda.
 The presence of hair in the axilla and pudenda in man is not without interest in connection with the pilose regions of the newly born infant.
It will be noticed that both Eschricht and Voigt separated the pudenda and the entire perineum from the rest of the body.
In Lemur varius the prevalent color being a light brown the perineum is black.
The axilla is often of the same color as the inside of the entire foreleg in Indris brevicaudatus 1 Arch.
f. Antliropologie 1S6G 507.
2 On Natural Sekclion 344.
3 On Descent of Man.
Am.
Ed.
I.
1S5.
 Am.
Mus.
No.
973.
5 Ibid.
No.
268.
6 Ibid.
No.
260.
 It would appear that retention of hair at both junction of the fore and hind leg with the body is in someway connected with secretion and with retention of heat at these localities.
See p.
94.
The black stripe which is well defined in many examples of Lemur varius may extend as far as the patella or a little distal of that Ijone.
In the case of the child exhibiting circumscribed trichosis reported by H. Ranke' a large jilose patch occurred at the front ot the patella and the upper part of the leg to its distal side.
Two small patches were found in line with the front of the thigh.
The position of the pilose marks above mentioned can be consistently placed in the same category as the thigh marks in the lemurs.
The Collar.
 The region of the head is distinguished in some of the more specialized mammals by a transverse band extending from the vertex down over or near the auricle commonly in front of this appendage and is variously dispersed on the neck.
It is an interesting region since it affords some of the most striking superficial colormarks of the Quadrumana and is the probable precursor of the hair of the crown of the head and of the beard in man.
In the figures of Eschricht's and Voigt's papers on the lanugo already quoted the outlines of the region of the color are clearly determined.
In many species of Q uadrumana the region of the vertex of the head to near the occiput the auricle the region below the auricle and the throat and submaxillary regions are white.
This disposition is conspicuous in Hylohates lar.
' In Colobus guereza the prevalent color Ieing black a white color is disposed as above and extends down the neck to the clavicle.
In Colobus vellerosus the collar is white and includes the gular region.
In Cercojyithecus diana the white collar is interrupted by Ijlack at the side  the chin is furnished with a Avhite goatee.
The prevalent color is a squirrel gray.
In Cehus .hypoleucus the collar is continuous down the neck and is continuous with the white scapular region and with the outside of the arm to a little below the elbow.
The prevalent color is black.
In Lemur varius the ears retromaxillary region and the neck uniting the head lines are white.
In Lemur albifrons a white band 'extends from the white crown over the head and thence to the neck.
1 Archiv.
f. Anthropologic 1883 339 XIV.
 American Museum of Natural History No.
953.
3 Ibid.
No.
266  Ibid.
No.
275.
In Lemur catta the prevalent color being squirrel gray the whitecolor between the eyes unites with the color round the eyes and thence passes to the front of the neck.
In another individual of the same species No.
268 the crown remains black while the rest of the collar is white.
In Phoca fasciata a white band encircles the head and neck at the region of the auricle.
It will be seen from these examples that the color of the vertex which may be defined as the crown of the head excepting the margin near the occiput is often white  that this color tends to pass down over the region of the ear to the neck where it may unite with the white of the ventre and embrace more or less of the arm.
With the exception of Phoca fasciata I have not met with this color mark outside of the Quadrumana.
Within the group last named the band appears to be homologous with the hair of the crown and the whiskers of the human subject.
In the Saki the color is black in this region and inclines forward to the submandibular growth or the beard proper.
The abruptness of termination of the white patch on the crown as it approaches the occiput appears to relate to the limitation of baldness of the human subject and explains the common retention of hair at the line of the occiput.
The occiput is under the control of the causes which maintain the body color as distinct fiom that of the rest of the head.
The Regions of the Special Senses  In addition to the dorsifacial stripe in the carnivores and the collar the mammalian head displays a very noteworthy feature in the retention of a contrastingcolor to the prevalent one of the body about the nostrils the eyelids and the auricles.
Such a style of coloration is typically represented in Ailuropus melanoleucus in which form the body color is a dull white.
According to Darwin the Himalayan rabbit at birth is white but in the course of a few months it gradually assumes dark eyes nose feet and tail.
The circumpalpebral black is found in many animals Avhen the ear is imierfectly pigmented as in Didelphys and Solenodon.
In Nycticehus javanicus the circle is brown.
In Nyctipitheciis and Loris the two circumpalpebral circles unite in a median dorsal line.
In Nasua the circle is white.
In Cercopithecus aethiops.
C. collaris and C. fuliginosus the eyelids are white.
In many dogs which are otherwise black or black and tan  a conspicuous black   1 Am.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist.
270.
2 Animals under Domestication I 109. patch surrounds one eye and includes one or both ears.
Such are fox terriers bull terriers and bull dogs.
The two patches of circumpalpebral black may interrupt the dorsifacial white stripe as is seen occasionally in the beagle.
Both the eyelids and the auricle may be included in the same patch of black as is seen in many dogs especially in pointers.
The same is noticed in the Japanese dog.
This disposition leads the observer to note that the same black patch may extend still farther backward and be found on the sides of the body.
A typical example of such an arrangement is seen in Myrmecojhaga jubata.
In Myrmccohiusthe circle extends backward in a stripe.
I have seen a similar stripe in the Scotch collie.
In Procyon the patch is for the most part infraorbital and extends backward to include the ear.
In one of the many varieties of Mephitis the ear and auricle are included in a line of black while the rest of the head is furnished with white longitudinal stripes  more commonly however the entire head is black excet a jugal strie which is white and extends down on the side.s of the trunk but inclining toward the dorsum as in Myrmecophaga.
When the auricle is black the tip may be furnished Avith a pencil of white hairs which suggest the reversion to the plan of coloration described on page 88.
The region of the nostrils or the muzzle is pigmented black in most mammals an exception being found in the Quadrumana as in Semnonith ecus nasalis.
It is interesting to find that in the bull terrier the black may disappear in whole or in part from the muzzle.
The special organs containing as they do black pigment often appear to determine retention points of the same color at the periphery.
The breaks in the circumpalpebral color determine the disappearance of the color from the region in hairless animals excepting the brov where it is apparently caused by the presence at that point of the circumorbital wart.
The eyebrow in man is in reality a stripe which tends to pass backward in obedience to the tendency of the stripe in animals generally.
But the direction taken by the eyebrow is not a guide to all the transitions in the form of the black about the eyes.
A vertical black stripe extends from the eye to the mouth in the cheetah  Cyncblurus jnhntus.
The same patch includes the lip in some New Foundland and pointer dogs.
 The auricle and the hair growing from it need not be entirely black.
The margin only is black in the hoary bat AtalajyJia cinerea and in Dldelphys.
The hair upon the auricle may be entirely white instead of black as in the North American badger Taxiclea americana.
The base of the auricle may be alone covered with black hair as in the foxterrier or with tan as in the beagle.
The auricular black in the dog may include the skin of the side of the head for a variable distance and may cross the vertex and be in common with the corresponding patch of the opposite side.
This arrangement interrupts the dorsifacial white stripe.
Tlie appearance of black tan or white spots on the vertex surrounded by patches of a contrasted color form points of breeding in some of the varieties of the dog. May it not be expected that a connection can be traced between the region of the obeleon and the pineal eye 
Embryology teaches that the jresence of various color marks of the skin appear before many of the more important deejjcr organs and that the species to wdiich an embryo belongs can be determined before the genus.
The occasional reappearance in the dog of a patch of pigment at the spot at which an organ of special sense appeared in a remote ancestor but which has no functional expression in the living descendant is in harmony with many of the conclusions drawn from the data presented in this paper.
The Sides of the Body.
 In Pecora tlie sides of the abdomen and chest are variously stripped and spotted when the body elsewhei'e is diffei'ently marked.
The young of the boar Sus scroja is striped on the body.
Lateral stripes are also seen in Coelogenys and in Tamias and Spermophilas.
JNIany varieties of domestic cattle show white spots extending up from the sides of the body from the ventre to variable distances.
Is it likely that the dorsal marks of the horse and carnivores and the saddle marks of Thyalcinus extending as they do downward are opposed in Pecora' by the disposition of ventral marks which extend upward
NerveEndings.
 The white stripes on the foce in many South American bats in Lophiomys in Taxidea and in some varieties of Mephitis appear to be distinct from the simple contrast of color of ' In a recent exhibition of dogs in Pliiladelpliia the vertex spot of the contrasted color was seen in the pointer the Irish setter and the beagle each twice in the spaniel and fox terrier each once. '
An exception is seen in Antilope scriptus which has white saddle marks.
the black of the special organ above mentioned.
In the tiger's marks as seen on the mnzzle they are undoubtedly correlated to the distribution of the infraorliital nerves.
It is probable that similar patches of color either black or white are related to similar causes.
Among them may be mentioned the black oral angle in Felis onca the white lips of Tapir pinchaque and the black lower lip in some varieties of the bull terrier and the fox terrier.
In the ground hackie Tamias striata I have demonstrated that the main longitudinal body stripe answer to the terminal filaments of the intercostal nerves and to those nerves which are in serial homology with them. I have found the spots on the fawn of the Virginian deer  Cariacus virginianus answer to the laces at which the cutaneous nerves pierce the fascia.
The papilla on the flexor aspect of the forearm which is seen in the domestic cat the sciurmorph and myomorph rodents and in some of the lemurs is furnished with bristlelike hairs with the exception of the last named animals.
It is supplied by a separate nerve in the domestic cat.
The length of the hairs correlate with the length of the vibrissse of the labial set and are used as I have observed in the common mouse for cleansing the face and especially in combinf the labial bristle.
J.
Bland 8utton ' found a small bristlebearing wart on the flexor surface of the the forearm in Lemur catta Ch irogaleus coquerli and Hapalemur griseus.
No special pigment patches or hair clumps have been found associated with this papilla.
The so called chestnut of the foreleg of the horse is probably homologous with this growth.
Owing to the changes in the limb coincident with the reduction of the toes the growth assumes a more posterior position.
All warts and skin caruncles are best developed on the naked spaces at or near the margins of hairy surfaces.
They are well seen on the margins of the regions of the whisker and the moustache in the human subject.
They are found about the mandibles in the moose Alces canadensis and the hog.
The same positions are seen occupied by warts in the bat where the face is sjarsely haired.
P. Michelson found warts on the margins of the pilose patches in trichosis circumscripta.
 Science 1887.
2 Proc.
Zool.
Sue.
Lond.
1887 372.
3 Virchow's Archiv.
1885 C 66.
Animals which are uniformly furred carry occasional warts on the face  one of these is always supraorbital and another is on the cheek and forms in the dog the socalled  kiss mark.
It is often separately marked by tan in the black and tan terrier when it constitutes a point for the breeders of this animal.
Virchow' expresses the opinion that retention of lanugo upon the face may be confined to the distribution of the fifth pair of cranial nerves.
MuscleRegions.
 The stripes and spots on the limbs and the dapplemarks on the trunk as well as some of the broader sheets of color appear to be related to the intervals between musclemasses or to the extent of skinsui'faces which corresponds to muscles.
The depression between the radial and digital extensors in the Felidffl is often marked by a black stripe.
Fells chaus of India according to Sir W. Elliot' exhibits a brown bar on the inside of the arm.
This writer assumes that the mark is distinctive of the East Indian sjecies.
I have seen a black mark in the same locality in many examples of the varieties of the domestic cat in or near Philadelphia.
The black mark on the front of the thigh in lemurs see p. 93 is limited distally to the region of the tibia at which the gracilis semitendinosus and sartorius muscles are inserted.
The region of the back which answers to the lower trapezius sheet is abruptly outlined in pure black in contrast to the white color of the loin and of the lower distal region in Indris hrevimudaius
H. Ranke reports a case of trichosis circimiscripta in which a patch yvns found in front of and below the right knee and a second over the front of the left knee.
These marks may be held to be homologous with the distal ends of the black femoral stripe in Indris brevicaudatus.as already stated above.
Regions which are rich in Seba and Moisture.
 Eschricht called attention to the fact of the early appearance of the sebaceous glands in connection with the development and distribution of the hair.
While the presence of seba is found associated with hairgrowth the fact that some clumps of hair are found in regions which are especially rich in the secretions poured from the skin form a I Berliner Klin.
Wochenschr.
1873 No.
29.
 Darwin An.
under Domestication.
Eng.
Ed.
I.
44.
3 Am.
Mus.
No.
260.
 Archiv.
f. Anthropologie 1883 taf.
XIII.
5 Miiller's Archiv.
1837 44. separate group of the localities which show special cjisposition to retain abundance of hair.
Such regions are illustrated by the hairy warts about gular pouches by the hair of the axilla of the pudenda and of the perineum.
The hair of the perineum is commonly distinctly colored in the dog and in some of the lemurs.
The highly colored and vascular surfaces of the region of the perineum in the Cynopithecoids are probably created by the same cause.
The hair of the external auditory canal is associated with ceruniinous glands.
The coarse hair at the base of the nipple may be included in the same category.
I have found the wrinkles of the skin of the head of the warthog Phacochoerus aethyojncus correspond to the black stripes seen in the zebra Equus zebra.
I have no proof however that this marking is caused by influence of seba or of moisture.
The roof of the mouth being black in many mammals induces the observer of pigment patches to include this region under the heading of the distribution of color marks on the general integument.
It is interesting to note that the efforts of breeders to run out the black from the integument will often result in the loss of pigment from the roof the mouth.
That the oral surface is capable of yielding special outgrowths which are comparable to those of the skin is shown in Balaena and many rodents.
4.
Effects of Age.
 That the color marks of young animals frequently differ from the adult forms is a matter of common observation.
The relations existing between the young of one species and the adult form of others have been often observed but need further elucidation.
The white collar at the base of the neck in some dogs is seen in the young form only of the bear.
The change in the Himalayan rabbit from white to white with dark markings has been already noted.
The corresponding changes which take place in the animal in old age has received much less attention than it deserves.
The few observations I have made confirm the statements made elsewhere respecting the orientation of pigment patches.
Horses often become gray in the circumpalpebral regions before they change elsewhere.
An Italian grayhound which I have observed for a number of years displays as it advances in senility a dorsal white stripe a white star on the breast a circumpalpebral gray patch and Avhite feet.
Ina word the fawn gray of adult life turns to white in the same regions with the exception of the tip of the tail and the tip of the ear that an animal is apt to break from its prevalent color.
See p. 88 The loss of hair from the crown in man is the loss of tlie dorsal part of the collar of the Quadrumana as already mentioned on p. 95.
The growth of the hair from the tragus in man is more decided in middle life than at an earlier period and turns gray at a later period than the whisker.
5.
BiLATERALiTY.
The study of color marks in connection Avith the law of asymmetry yields many attractive results.
Prof. Wm.
H. Brewer found the white marks on the feet of horses more developed on the left than the right side.
In Nyctipithecus I have found the left supraorbital region white and a white spot detected on the left cheek while the remainder of the fur was gray.
H. Ranke'' describes a case of trichosis circximscripta in which a pilose patch was seen on the left cheek in advance of the region of the whisker but none corresponding to it on the right.
The left arm according to R. Hilbert may be alone pilose and a patch of icthyosis be confined to the shoulder of the same side.
Dr. Henry H. Donaldson found as the result of many observations on the human subject in the south of Germany the wart on the nasiolabial groove to be much more frequent on the left than the right side.
He found a similar disposition in numbers of engraved portraits of distinguished men of all nationalities.
I have frequently found the black circumpalpebral patch in the foxterrier and the bullterrier confined to the left side or when the patches are found on both sides the left patch to be the larger.
According to W. H. Flower the colormarks of Lycaon are remarkable for being different on the two sides of the body.
Prof Brewer states that in man the beard commonly turns gray first on the left side.
It cannot be a coincidence that the left side in all the above instances shows the greatest disposition to variation.
I have found a similar disposition to exist in the antlers of the Virginian deer.
 Proc.
Am.
Assn for Advancement of Science ISSl XXX 246.
2 Archiv.
f. Anthropologie 1883 XIV 339.
3 Virchow's Archiv.1885 XCIX 569.
 Article  Mammalia British Encyclopedia IX edition.
5 1. c. 249.
Naevus bearing abundant growths of hair has been found by J Nevins Hyde  confined to the left side of the body in tlie form of three bands which followed in the direction of the intercostal nerves a fourth band extended from the perineum to the scrotum and penis.
6.
Anteroposterior Asymmetry.
 The anterior half of the body may be disposed with reference to the color marks and the quantity or kind of hair in a manner different from the posterior.
This disposition is strikingly seen in many specimens of the tapir the anterior part with the exception of the lips which are white being dark while the posterior is white.
In Hystrix the posterior half of the body alone bears the quills.
In Phascolardos the posterior half of the body is white.
In Hapale hicolor a similar coloration is seen.
In Chrysochloris aurata the posterior half only of the body justifies the name.
Concluding Remarks.
 In reviewing the subject of the distribution of color marks in mammals it is evident that the causes of the arrangements are various and do not admit of easy solution.
The points which I have attempted to elucidate do not invalidate biological principles already established while it must be acknowledged that some of them do not remain explained by these principles alone.
That variations of deep lying structures will influence the periphery which overlie them is a well established law.
Illustrations are seen in the relations which exist between the true organs of generation and the skin coverings over them.
It is but another application of the principle to find the sacral spot correlating to conditions of the neuroenteric canal and yet another in the skin about the nostril the eye and the auricle remaining black because the true organs of olfaction vision and audition also contain black pigment.
The principle of anteroposterior symmetry  of bilateral symmetry and asymmetry are also illustrated.
The general contrasts of the color marks of the head as opposed to those of the body which are so common in particolored animals may be explained by the enormous influence which the brain must exert over the nutrition of the entire region.
That nerveendings can influence the color of the integument near them is abundantly proven.
From the lateral line of teleostean fishes to the ground hackie is a long series in which the influence of nerve endings on the sides of the trunk can be associated with color marks.
Sebaceous.
1 Chicago Med.
Journ.
and Examiner Oct. 1877. secretion and sweat conjoined with elevation of temperature appear to explain the retention of hair at the pudenda and axilla.
Dr. Geo.
Dimmick of Cambridge Mass. has informed me that he has iufluenced the arrangement of color marks on the elytra of Coceinella by varying the temjoerature to which the insects had been subjected.
According to H. Pryer temperature has a great evolutionary value in insects.
That margins of nutritive regions afford the conditions favorable to the appearance of warts agrees with what is known in a osseous system Avith resiect to erostosis and absorption.
In a growing cranial bone I have found its greatest thickness in the position of its centre of ossific deposit  in the adult bone the thickness is greatest at the margins.
When sutures are well defined vascular activity is most marked along their lines.
In atrophy an area of deficiency always occurs lying at a point somewhere between the centre of  ossification and the borders of the bone. It is probably in obedience to the same law that in baldness a lock of hair commonly persists at the bregma and in the upper part of the metopic line.
With respect to skin folds it must he said that the disposition is caused primarily by the jDosition of the skeleton of the limbs to that of the trunk head and neck.
In Rhinoceros and Armadillo the folds answer pretty exactly to the divisions above named.
But the folds on the side of the trunk between the limbs in Armadillo appear to be caused by muscular action if one can accept the conclusions drawn from the appearances seen in the instantaneous photographs of the hog as taken by jIr.
IMuybridge. If motion can originate skin folds it can also determine colorregions and the category of the pigment patches in the intervals between musclemasses and the limitation of colorareas to muscle sheets become practicable.
 The history of each mammalian embryo must present many phases of nutrition  especially of precocity and of retardation  which determine individuality.
In a litter of two or more individuals the changes due to temperature to motion to rate of local blood iuter1 Trans.
Ent.
Soc.
Lond.
1882 489.
2 Am.
Journ.
Med.
Sci.
1870 405.
 Photographs issued under the auspices of the University of Penna series 673. i It is a tempting subject for study to elucidate the distribution of skin diseases Iy the application of the same methods undertaken in this essay.
The margins of the areas of the lanugo  the course of distribution of nerves or of vessels the influence of the bone lying in close juxtaposition to the skin the clianoje must cause variations in the rates of growth in accession or repression of force which will call into activity one or more of the proclivities above named.
The extreme variety of this individual experience doubtless explains the great difference seen in the ways that animals are colored.
The fact that coloration is limited or that it is apt to be limited to the points of convergence of Eschricht and Voigt would appear to be a tentative conclusion.
The careful study of the peculiarities of the animals which are born naked would probably greatly strengthen it.
I will conclude by making the suggestion that the distribution of colormarks along the directions already indicated is a larger phase of the subject of evolution than is outlined by mimeticism and by natural selection.
I assume that Ailuropus doeS not for the reason that it cannot change the black feet the black auricle and the black circumocular region for one in harmony with the ground color notwithstanding the disadvantage to which the contrast between the black and white subjects him.
I also assume that the breeders of the dog cannot run out the black from the skin over the sacrum and the root of the tail with the same ease he can determine many other colors.
According to natural selection and domestication the various regions above named explain the frequent occurrence of colors which are of great use to the individual but they often meet with abrupt limitation owing to the influence of deeplying restraining causes.
occurrence of acne pustules or syphilitic papules in positions in which the marginal warts occasionally appear  the retention of the hair near the bregma and at the occiput m instances of loss of hair other than from age can be noted in studying the distribution of eruptions upon the skin and of naevi as well as of color marks.
But the field of observation is difficult when the conditions are often so fleeting.
The impressions of a single observer are not sufficient to secure definite conclusions For information including literature of this phase of the subject the reader may refer to the experimental researches of A. Irsai and V. Babesin i upon the influence of the nervous system upon the pathological conditions of the skin and to T. S. Dowse on the nervous affections of the skin and its appendages.2 1 Vierteljahresschr.
f. Dermatol u. Syphil.
1882 IX 433.
2 Med.
Press and Circular 1879 I 499.
8 EESEARCHES UPON THE GENERAL PHYSIOLOGY OF NERVE AND MUSCLE.
BY Dr. HENRY C. CHAPMAN AND Dr. ALBERT.
P. BRUBAKER.
No.
1.
Electrical currents and Electromotive force of Muscle and Nerve in frog.
Whatever view may be entertained as to the nature of the electrical currents present in injured muscle or nerve whether the same be regarded as preexisting in the uninjured condition or as being developed through injury there can be no difference of opinion as to the fact that such currents exist at least in the injured condition.
In as much however as so far known to the authors of this communication all researches hitherto undertaken with the object of demonstrating the presence of electrical currents in muscle and nerve and of more particularly determining the electiomotive force of the same have been made by Prof. Du Bois Reymond it does not appear superfluous to bring before the attention of the Academy the results of some recent investigations made by the authors in the Laboratory of Jefferson Medical College upon large specimens of our our common frog Rana.
Cateshiana.
That the presence of electrical currents in nerve and muscle should have long escaped the notice of physiologists was doubtless due not only to the imperfect forms of galvanometers formerly in use but also to the fact of electrical currents being developed whenever two electrodes were placed in contact with organic tissues.
With the construction of delicate galvanomters like those of Wiedemann and of nonpolarizable electrodes that is of electrodes that will convey or divert an electrical current present in a muscle or nerve to a galvanometer without generating one it became possible to demonstrate without cavil that injured muscle and nerve are seats of electromotive force.
The instruments made use of in obtaining the results tabulated below were of the convenient form devised for this purpose by Prof Du Bois Reymond to whom this branch of science is so much indebted and consisted of a Wiedemann galvanometer with telescope and scale around compensator mercurial keys and whippe and nonpolarizable diverting cylinders and diverting vessels  the latter or nonpolarizable electrodes being always 1 Gesammelte Abhandlungen Leipzig 1875 Band I.
2 A description of these instruments will be found in Chapman's Physiology 1887 Chap.
XXXVIII.
107 1888.
applied to the equator and transverse section of the muscle and nerve respectively.
The methods made use of by the authors in determinincr the electromotive force of the gastrocnemius muscle and sciatic nerve of the frog as given in the synopsis below is essentially that of Scheme of Determination of ElectroMotive Force with Round Compensator.
L IVII Wire of round compensator.
N Number of its divisions 1000.
L Resistance offered by same.
S Switcher.
K Key.
D Daniell Element.
W Resistance oflered by D IVII B P' D and by IVII F P' D. P' Whippe.
B Coils.
F Coils.
Y Commutator.
G Galvanometer.
E Electrodes.
M Muscle or Nerve.
K Key.
Ill Wheel.
1 Fractional portion of wire of compensator.
n Number of the division necessary to compensate.
PoggendorfF with the difference that the round compensator was used instead of the long rheocord.
This method consists essentially in 1 Du Bois Reymond op.
cit.
S 257.
Archiv fiir anat.
u. Phys.
1885 S. 381. shuntiug off from the circuit of a standard element a Dauiell's cell for examplevhose electromotive force is knovn 1 08 Volt an amount of current sufficient to neutralize or compensate the current deflecting the magnet the latter due to the electromotive force of themuscle or nerve and which is to be determined.
Thus for example let us suppose that the electrical current diverted by the nonpolarizable cylinders or electrodes Fig.
1 E from the nerve or muscle Ito the galvanometer G be sufficient to deflect the magnet to an extent corresjjonding to 267 divisions of the scale.
If now the compensator be moved so that the wheel III be opposite n for example part of the current from the Daniell element will return through IVII F whence it came and part through III P to the muscle M and being in the reverse direction to that of the current from and due to the muscle the magnet will be slowly brought back from the the 267th division of the scale to zero the wheel III then standing at n or the 820th division of the wire of the compensator the latter N being divided into 1000 parts.
Such being the case it is evident that the electromotive force of the muscle or X is to that compensating it or to 1 the amount of the compensating force depending upon the resistance oflfered by the fractional jortion of the wire L as the electromotive force of the Daniell element or E is to the whole resistance or WfL or more briefly  X  1   E  WL or In as much however as the fractional portion of the wire 1 is to the number of its divisions or n as the whole wire L is to the number of its divisions X we shall have 1  n   L  X 1 or nL X If now this value of 1 be substituted in equation 1 we shall obtain  X 1  W X E 2 L and it only remains n and X being known to determine the ratio of W to L to obtain the value of X or the electromotive force of the muscle as a fractional portion of E the latter being the electromotive force of a Daniell element.
To accomplish this let the circuit M G P IV III F' K M and the circuit D K I III IV II F F D be opened and the circuit D S IV II B P' D offering a resistance W be closed D being put in communication with IV by the switcher S B being a coil of Avire offering the same resistance as F and brought sufficiently near the galvanometer G to slightly affect it the intensity of the current will then be equal to the ratio of E .
E to W or I  r or if we call J the number of the divisions of the E scale corresponding to the deflection of the magnet then J  Let now D be put in communication by means of the switcher S with I the beginning of the wire of the compensatoi' that is the Current D K S I III IV II B P' D be closed and offering a resistance WL L being the resistance offered by the wire I II of the compensator the intensity of the current will then be equal to the ratio of E E to WL that is I   or if we call J the number of divisE ions corresponding to the deffection of the magnet then J WL or jY yr  T Y whence W  WL or WL W 1 J If now this value of  be substituted in equation 2 we will obtain L XXXE3 in which equation X  the electro motive force of muscle.
n  the number of divisions of the graduated scale of the wire of the compensator necessary for compensation.
N  1000  the number of divisions of the wire of the compensator.
J  Number of divisions of scale corresponding to deflection of magnet excluding the wire of the compensator.
J  Number of divisions of scale corresponding to deflection of magnet including the wire of the compensator.
E  The electro motive force of the Daniell element.
Substituting the value of n and of J and J' obtained experimentally as described above and equation 3 becomes  820 9081  1000 90  or X j E  00833 D. that is to say the electro motive force of the muscle or X that deflected the magnet to an extent corresponding to 267 dimensions of the scale is equal to 00833 of a Daniel element.
Finally it will be observed that the graduating of the compensator or the determining the amount of the iractional portion of the Daniell necessary to compensate the muscle current is accomplished immej ji I diately after compensating or before since  j from 3  N J  ' 10000 of the Daniell that is each division of the wire of the compensator at that moment switches oft the roOToth of a Daniell and as it required 820 such to compensate yf f o o t2 was the fractional portion of the Daniell element needed.
It need hardly be added that in determining the electromotile force of a nerve we proceed in exactly the same way except that we make use of the diverting vessels as electrodes instead of diverting cylinders.
It may be mentioned incidentally that in all of the experiments performed in the above manner the telescoie and scale were placed at a distance of 2'5 met 8 feet from the galvanometer the coils lay close up to the magnet that the temperature of the laboratory was about 70F.
389 C the season January and February the time of day noon.
The following table gives the results synoptically arranged of 25 experiments performed upon the gastrocnemius of the frog and of 25 experiments upon the sciatic nerve of the same animal.
Resuming it will be observed that the average deflection of the magnet due to the electrical current of the muscle corresponded to 217 divisions of the scale the electromotive force causing the samethc fith of a Daniell or 0'0696 D. a greater electromotive force than that yet obtained the same amounting according to Du Bois Key mond  to 0035 0075 D. the mean of which is 0055D.
It juay be also mentioned incidentally in this connection that the electro1 Op.
cit.
Band II S. 243. motive force of the semimembrauous muscle was found in several instances to amount to as much as the jih.
of a Daniell or 01 D. The deflection of the magnet due to the electrical current of the sciatic nerve corresponded on an average to 21 divisions of the scale the electromotive force giving rise to it to the th of a Daniell or 00237 D. a result agreeing closely with that of Du Bois Reymond viz   0'022 D. In conclusion it is worthy of observation that the electromotive of the muscle is more than three times as great as that of the nerve.
Synopsis of results of observations upon the electrical currents and electromotive force of muscle and nerve in frog.
Gastrocnemius Muscle.
Observation.
Magnetic Deflection.
Electro Motive Force.
1 186 div.
of scale.
00625 D. 2 141  00666 a 3 155  00769 a 4 170  00714 ii 5 190  00588 a 6 197 a 00666 ii 7 165 ti 00714 li 8 255 ii 00714 ii 9 217 i 00588 li 10 225 li 00588 ii 11 191 Ii 00555 li 12 245 ti 00769 ii 13 225 a 00625 ii  14 211 li 00769 li 15 270 ii 00833 it 16 266 I 00625 a 17 216 ii 00833 a 18 267 ii 00833 li 19 266 a 00833 li 20 258 a 00833 ii 21 207 ii 00625 a 22 230 a 0.0588 t 23 200 a 00588 a 24 225 a 00714 a 25 260 ii 00769 a mean   5438 25  217 div.
17424 25  0.0696 D. iQp.
cit.
Band II S. 250.
112 1888.
Sciatic Nerve.
Observation.
Magnetic Deflection.
Electro Motive Fore 1 25 cliv.
of scale.
00277 D. 2 15 i 00212  3 19 i 00217  4 20 il 00222  5 30  00333  6 30  00333  7 27 le 0033  8 28 iC 00333  9 19 li 00200  10 17 a 00208  11 19 a 00208  12 16 a 10180  13 17 a 00181  14 26 iC 00256  15 23 C 00250  16 18 l 00185  17 19 a 00185  18 22 C 00185  19 27 i 00294  20 15 iC 00181  21 18 il 00200  22 20 iC 00250  23 19 a 00192  24 20 I 00263  25 24 ic 00270  mean 533 21 f
 00237 D. 25 25 DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF UNIONES FROM FLORIDA.
BY BERLIN HART WRIGHT PENN YAN N. Y. TTnio Fryanus.
Plate II fig.
1.
Sliell elliptical very smooth very inequilateral substance of the shell thin inflated in the umbonial region beaks projecting very slightl beyond the hinge line ligament short thin and light brown.
Epidermis yellowish red and covered with liright green rays which are so thickly set upon the upper portion of the shell as to give that part a bright green color the young are of a bright shining green over the entire surface the green being interrupted by heavy lines of growth of a light red color.
Ligamental margin subangular before and slightly arched posterior margin disposed to be slightly biangular and quite uniformly rounded above anterior margin abruptly rounded  basal margin uniformly rounded  cardinal and lateral teeth double in the left and single in the right valves the cardinal teeth short oblique stout and crenulate lateral teeth slightly and uniformly curved dorsal cicatrices deep and slightly posterior to the cavity of the beak anterior cicatrices slightly impressed and distinct.
Nacre quite uniformly purplish.
Diameter .60.
Length 1.00.
Breadth 1.75 inches.
Habitat.
Lake Ashby Volusia County Florida.
Mus.
Acad.
Nat.
Sciences.
Phila.
Newcomb Coll. Cornell Univ.
National Museum Remarks.
This species is highly polished and the young are rich in lustrous rays.
The strongest affinity is with TJ.
spams Lea.
It approaches TJ.
fuscatus Lea but is thicker through the umbonial elevation and the umbos are farther forward and its valves thicker heavier and not so flat.
The dorsal view shows it is enlarged anteriorly while that of Juscatus is not so.
It can not be mistaken for U. perlucens or U. micans Lea.
Abundant on the muddy bottom of the outlet of Lake Ashby Volusia Co. Fla. Named for Mr. T. Marshall Fry of Syracuse N. Y. who is an enthusiastic collector and student of the Unionidse.
TJnio Websterii Plate II fig.
2.
Shell oblong inequilateral considerably inflated rounded at the sides surface roughened by numerous obtuse irregular lines of growth substance of the shell thin ligamental margin moderately arcuate and rather short posterior margin slightly biaugular ligamental area narrow umbonial slope subangular anterior margin projecting and uniformly roimded basal margin slightly and uniformly curved.
Epidermis reddish interrupted by coarse distant radiating lines of a blackish color.
Greatest length near the middle of the shell beaks eroded and ornamented Avith three to five radiating elevations.
Umbos broad and rounded nacre delicate flesh color to pink usually clear rarely mottled with waxy spots  cardinal teeth disposed to be double in both valves slender oblique long and delicately crenulate lateral teeth long and heavy curved cavity of the beak deep and rounded cavity of the shell deep and occasionally the surface is interrupted with undulating ridges near the anterior portion of the cavity dorsal cicatrices forming a continuous line extending from the base of the osterior cardinal tooth backward for one half inch and directly under the edge of the roof to the beak cavity anterior cicatrices small the superior one undermining the anterior portion of the cardinal tooth posterior cicatrices confluent.
Diameter 1.
Length 2.50.
Breadth 4 inches.
Habitat.
Lake Woodruff Volusia Co. Florida.
Mus.
Acad.
Nat.
Sciences.
Newcomb Coll. Cornell Lniv.
National Museum.
Remarks.
This is the largest Unio yet found in Florida waters.
Its place is between JJ.
Savamiahensis Lea and U. Mechlenhurgensis Lea.
It is more inflated than the former thinner has more prominent and narrower beaks higher and more rounded umbos deeper and smaller anterior cicatrices and the teeth are lighter.
We are pleased to name this species after our botanical friend Mr. Buchard Webster of Lake Helen Florida who with his father often made our collecting trips more pleasant.
TJnio Waltoni.
Plate II fig.
'..
Shell compressed on the posterior slope transversely elongated very inequilateral valves rather tliin beaks not prominent and eroded  epidermis brownish black apparently rayless valves anteriorly rounded and oblique upward and sharply angled above obtusely rounded behind  cardinal teeth nodulous small complex and serrated lateral teeth lamellar and slightly curved upwards nacre purple.
Basal margin very nuich excurvated.
Diameter 1.00.
Length 1.50.
Breadth 4 inches.
Habitat.
Lake Woodruff Volusia Co. Florida Mus.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Newcomb Coll.
Nat.
Mus.
Remarks.
This species has the general form of U. Emmonsii Lea and is more in affinity with that species than with U. Shepherdianus Lea.
The former is a much heavier species and with coarse heavy teeth.
U. Shepherdianus Lea is deeply emarginate on its basal margin and the sides of its valves are very much constricted obliquely from its projecting umbos down while U. Waltoni is very conTea in its basal Jiiargiu and its umbos not projecting and its anterior end very obliquely rounded instead of evenly rounded and a thin shell.
It can not be confounded with U. perlatus Lea though the obliquity of the anterior end is much alike in both.
It is witli much pleasure that we name this curious species after Mr. John Walton a zealous and working conchologist and artist of Rochester N. Y. TJnio Dorei.
Plate III fig.
1 Shell ovate heavy polished rayless epidermis reddish with brownish colored elevations or growthridges beaks blunt and massive dorsal margin very broad short and slightly arched posterior margin quite straight Umbonial angle sharp and supplemented by two parallel elevations which are more or less broken by undulations basal margin slightly rounded anterior margin truncate and angulated above cardinal teeth with a tendency to being double in both valves very massive smoothish lateral teeth very long heavy and uniformly curved nacre a rich salmon color cavity of the beaks almost wanting of the shell considerable.
Named for Mr. H. E. Dore and enthusiastic collector of mollusca of Portland Oregon.
Diameter 1.25.
Length 1.6.
Breadth 2.60 inches.
Habitat.
Lake Monroe Florida.
Mus.
Acad.
Sciences  Coll.
B. H. AV right.
Bemarks.
The affinity of this species is with U. Conasaugaensis Lea but the teeth differ the umbos of the latter are not so broad and blunt anrl are farther from the anterior end and has a white nacre.
Tliere is much disparity between it and U. Bucklyi Lea.
Unio Averellii.
Plate ITI fig.
.1.
Shell obovate thin fragile slightly inflated inequilateral smooth polished interrupted by numerous green capillary rays arranged in fascicles which are narrowest at the anterior end of the shell and broaden gradually until near the umbonial angle where they merge together giving the posterior portion of the shell a dark green color epidermis yellowish beaks flattened rather blunt slightly and coarsely undulated dorsal margin nearly straight ligament short horn colored thin anterior margin short and gracefully rounded posterior margin bluntly rounded basal margin witli a tendency to emargination in old females quite uniformly curved in males greatest diameter near the middle of the ligament greatest length at posterior end of dorsal line cardinal teeth double in both valves compressed very oblique crenulate the anterior tooth in the right valve is much the smaller as is the posterior one of the left valve lateral teeth single in the right and double in the left valve curved and slender nacre light purple and spoted with a few darkwaxy spots dorsal cicatrices two to four and in a diagonal row from the base of the anterior cardinal tooth across the centre of the cavity of the beak anterior cicatrices distinct and well impressed.
Diameter .8.
Length 1.2.
Breadth 2i inches.
Habitat.
Lake Ashby Volusia County Florida.
Museum Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
Newcoml Coll. Cornell Univ.
Nat.
Museum.
Remarks.
This delicate species is possibly related to U. jjapyracem Gould.
But Dr. Gould in his description of that species says that it resembles Anodonta Coujoeriana Lea in shape delicacy and even color.
But there is nothing in U. Averellii to remind one of An.
Coiqjeriana Lea.
It has the outline of U. occitltus Lea but its affinity is with U. rutilans Lea but differs in being very thin almost paperlike less blunt at each end and without a depressed area at the anterior ligament.
Named for Mr. Wm.
D. Averell publisher of the Conchologist's Exchange of Philadelphia Pa. Unio Nolani.
Plate IV fig.
1.
Shell wide smooth rather thick beautifully polished throughout and entirely covered with heavy greenish rays epidermis yellowish and often olivaceous  dorsal margin arcuate anterior margin gracefully and perfectly rounded lasal margin subemarginate posterior margin uniformly rounded from the end of the ligament to the base with no tendency to biaugulation umbonial angle flatly rounded umbonial slope flattened depressed in the middle beaks small pointed undulated and rather prominent cavity of the shell small  cardinal teeth heavy erect grooved double in the left and single in the right valve  lateral teeth curved heavy and much roughened  nacre beautiful pink and iridescent.
Diameter .9 Length 1.5.
Breadth 3 inches.
Mus.
Acad.
Nat.
Sciences.
My own cabinet.
Habitat A creek flowing into St. John's River near Palatka Fla. Bemarhs.
This beautiful shell was found by Mr. J.
B. Usor several years ago.
Its affinity is with U. cornetts Lea and witli C7.
Fostellii Lea.
From the hitter itdifiersin not having a striated and scaly epidermis and in not having thick but conpressed cardinal teeth.
The former has much heavier teeth the groove of the lateral teeth being shorter and much farther from the cardinal teeth and the beaks farther from the anterior end and the postligamental area much more conspicuous.
It can not be taken for U. jAan'dateris Con.
which has a stramineus epidermis.
We name this peculiar species for Dr. Edw.
J. Nolan Librarian to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Unio Hinkleyi.
Plate IV fig.
2.
Shell oblong trapezoidal attenuated and pointed behind smooth slightly inflated and often flatish  rather thin polished above.
Epidermis black thickly covered with brown indistinct fine rays visible with transmitted light.
Posterior margin subemargiuate raised into a compressed wing.
Anterior margin rounded and slightly oblique.
Dorsal margin a slightly arched curve.
Basal margin slightly convex.
Umbonial slope raised and obtusely rounded Cardinal teeth compressed thin very oblique and grooved double in both valves.
Lateral teeth very long slender and undvdating nearly straight.
Dorsal cicatrices four or more in one or two rows.
Nacre pinkish and iridescent.
Umbonial region broad and blunt very slightly projecting but often deep.
Diameter 1.00.
Length 1.50.
Breadth 3.00.
Habitat.
Lake Monroe Florida.
Mus.
Acad.
Nat.
Sciences.
National Museum.
Remarks.
In outline this species is similar to that of U. deelivisSay but its black epidermis its pinkish or purplish nacre readily distinguishes it from that species.
It is dedicated to Mr. A.
A. Hinkley of Dubois Illinois an active collector of Unionidse.
Unio Simpsoni.
Plate V fig.
1.
Shell oblongovate pointed behind and often very slightly uncinate below the point inequilateral remarkably smooth and polished.
Valves thin slightly inflated and rarely with a few coarse perpendicular impressed grooves near the centre.
Sometimes the valves are very flat.
Ligamental margin higher behind and straight or slightly arched.
Posterior slope biangular below straight or slightly emarginate and raised into a distinct and angled carina which is thin and compressed.
Ligamental area often with several small plicfe.
The posterior end is generally sharply compressed above and below giving it a lanceshaped and ancipital appearance.
Urabonial ridge depressed narrow and rounded.
Anterior margin rounded and slightly oblique basal margin convex.
Epidermis yellowishbrown or olive colored or even bright green with slender green rays in uneven fascicles or rayless and reddishbrown all over.
Umbos very much flattened and beaks very small and pointed having a few concentric folds.
Cavity of the beaks nearly obsolete.
Dorsal cicatrices small and deep.
Cardinal teeth oblique and very small.
Lateral teeth long thin undulated and nearly straight.
Nacre salmon or purple or both mixed.
Shell darker behind and at the base.
Diameter .75.
Length 1.12.
Breadth 2.30 inches.
Habitat.
Lake Woodruff' Volusia Co. Florida.
Mus.
Acad.
Nat.
Sciences.
Cornell University.
National Mus.
lieinarks.
The left beak is often shorter than the other.
Its affinity is with U. viridicatus Lea which has much larger cavities under the beaks the lateral teeth coarser and not undulating and the anterior end not obliquely rounded and is not rayed.
It cannot be mistaken for U. Jayanus Lea.
We have great pleasure in dedicating this species to Mr. Charles T. Simpson of Ogallala Nebraska who has done very much in studying the mollusca of Florida.
Unio Marshii.
Plate V fig.
2.
Shell somewhat narrowelliptical transverse veutricose and very inequilateral smooth incremental lines close and slightly raised.
Substance of the shell rather thin and of very uniform thickness swollen in the umbonial region  umbonial slope rounded  posterior slope compressed and rounded  dorsal margin nearly straight  anterior margin abruptly rounded  basal mai'gin much excurvate and slightly constricted near the posterior extremity  posterior margin bluntly rounded and emarginate above  turned up raised into a very small depressed and thin carina.
Beaks blunt broad without concentric undulations but possessing three or four raised radiating lines epidermis remarkably thin reddish brown below and greenish above indistinctly and closely rayed over the anterior portion and very darlc or black on the posterior slope nacre a beautiful salmon varying to urple  cardinal teeth compressed erect striate very oblique and disposed to be double in both valves  lateral teeth long.
solid and curved  dorsal cicatrices four well impressed and situated under the base of the anterior end of the lateral teeth which continue almost to the cardinal teeth.
Diameter 1.3.
Length 2.00.
Breadth 3 inches.
Habitat.
Lake Woodruff Volusia Co. Florida.
Mus.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phihx.
Coll.
of Berlin H. Wright and rr.
W. A. Marsh Aledo Illinois.
Remarks.
This species though belonging to the Buckleyi group has specific characters distinguishing it from U. Buckleyi Lea  the adult is very excurvate on the basal margin has a very smooth and polished epidermis filled with obscure rays the anterior end being directed obliquely upwards characters not pertaining to adult U. Buckley i.
The symmetry of the dorsal and basal curves is peculiar being in this character like the same curves of U. symmetricus Lea.
Its affinity is with U. Buddianus Lea differing in the teeth and other characters.
Dedicated to Mr. Wm.
A. Marsh of Aledo Illinois an amateur of the Unionidae.
TJnio Dallii.
Plate VI fig.
1.
Shell ovate pointed and flattened behind the point being directed downward in an uncinate manner.
Polished above and lustreless below valves not thick thicker before epidermis black rayless with numerous strise of scaly plicss below the umbonial region.
Ligamental margin much arched with an angle at each end.
Posterior margin usually slightly and evenly convex.
Basal margin emarginate near the posterior end anterior margin nearly truncated or abruptly rounded.
Umbonial slope very depressed obtuse and scarcely carinate and the sides of the valves are decidedly flattened just forward of the umbonial slope.
Greatest diameter in the middle of the shell.
Umbos broad and flattened obtuse projecting and vei'y much eroded.
Sides with numerous close coarse lines of growth.
Nacre salmon or pink varying to copper color iridescent and usually with waxcolored spots which often are confluent and cover the interior.
Cavity of the shell and of the beaks shallow.
Lateral teeth long heavy and much curved.
Cardinal teeth coarse deep divergent.
Anterior cicatrices distinct the .
larger are deep.
Posterior cicatrices confluent well impressed.
The type specimen is about twothirds the full size.
Diameter 1.00.
Length If.
Breadth 1h inches.
Habitat.
Lake Beresford Volusia Co. Florida.
Mus.
Acad.
TSTat.
Sciences.
Newcomb Coll.
National Museum.
Bemarl.
Tliere is an iiffinity of this species 'svith U. venustus Lea but is more comjiressed behind and is larger.
It has been largely distributed as U. Bnckeyi thus causing much confusion as to what the latter really i'.
U. Buchleyl Lea is more pointed behind not uncinate there nor emarginate on the basal margin.
Its umbos are farther forward and less elevated.
Its greatest diameter as Avell as greatest length is just behind the beaks while in XJ.DalUi the greatest length is through the summit of the umbo It is named for Mr. W. H. Dall of the Smithsonian Institution.
Unio Tryoni.
Plate VI fig.
2.
Shell wide narrowelliptical compressed posteriorly thin polished above.
Umbos slightly elevated the beaks being close to the anterior end and in the young undulated  epidermis brownish or grayish black raised into numerous fine scaly stride roughish rayless or with some capillary obscure rays near the centre of the valves.
Dorsal margin straight posterior margin bluntly rounded or truncate and triangular  often subemarginate above basal margin slightly convex anterior margin broadly rounded.
Cardinal teeth of the left valve are long erect and widely separated to receive the single wide tooth of the right valve.
The anterior tooth is shorter and less pointed than the posterior one and the lattq.'
is curved upward.
Lateral teeth very long rather slender and nearly straight.
Nacre livid or light salmon colored and often with several darkbrown circular spots.
Cavity of the beaks very shallow.
Diameter 1.25.
Length 1.75.
Breadth 4 inches.
Habitat.
Lake Woodruff Volusia Co. Florida near De Leon Springs.
Mus.
Acad.
Nat.
Sciences.
Newcomb Collection.
National Mus.
BemarJcs.
This species is much thinner and lighter than U. Ocmulgeensis Lea with Avhich there is the affinity of outline.
It is much narrower than U. Buddkmus Lea and its cardinal teeth are not oblique as in the latter.
It is lighter more rounded before and more attenuated behind and has a much shorter hinge line.
Some forms of it approach U. Jayanus Lea.
It gives us much pleasure to dedicate this species to the late Mr. Geoige W. Tryon Jr. author of  Manual of Conchology and other conchological works.
Proc.Acad.Nat.Sci.Phila.1888.
P1.L Hartman on Achatmella.
Proc.AcaclNat.Sci.Phila.1888.
pi.m.
lob.
2 ex.
1 f  A  a   X. Wright on New Lfniones.
Proc.Acad.Nat.Sci.Phild.1888.
 '' .
 pi.iv la.
2 OL.
 iirVj5jg5.'''.
Vri gh t on PF e v Un i o n e s. Pro c.Acad.NatSci.Phila.
1888.
PIV W J hlfir f t' .sUf' Wright on PFewUniones.
Proc.Acad.NatSci.Phila.l o o .
i PlVl .. la.
't cL.
Wright on 'NewUniones.
1888.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
121 March 6.
Mr. Thomas Meehan VicePresident in the chair.
Twentynine persons present.
Action of Hydrofluoric Acid on a Sphere of Quartz.
 Dr. Otto Meyer reported an experiment which he had undertaken in connection with Mr. Sam'l.
L. Penfield.
A sphere of quartz was subjected to the action of hydrofluoric acid for more than two months.
The acid dissolved the quartz princiially in the direction of the main axis and thus flattened the sphere.
In the direction of the lateral axes the etching action proceeded with much less activity and at three places on the periphery the acid had not eaten away any of the material but left the original surface of the sphere intact.
These three places were situated at one end of each of the lateral axes the result being a triangular disc.
This experiment shows that a mineral may be soluble in a liquid in certain directions and on certain planes while at the same time insoluble in other directions and on other planes.
Dr. Meyer exhibited the result the object resembling a three cornered lens.
 A more detailed account will be given elsewhere.
Remarks on the Phylogeny of the Lamellihranchiata.
 Dr. Benjamin Sharp brought forward some points regarding the classification of the Lamellihranchiata and stated that in considering this group a diversity of type was to be found that is equal to if not greater than that found in any class of the animal kingdom with the possible exception of the Hexipoda.
In examining the different forms he pointed out two well marked extremes Ostrea and Aspergillum.
In the former as is well known the two large unequal shells entirely cover the body and they are closed by one large muscle the adductor.
The large and important organ so common in the Lamellihranchiata generally the foot is entirely absent.
The mantle edges are separated for nearly their whole extent and there is no indication whatever of the mantle uniting to form a siphon.
In Aspergillum on the other hand the two shells are so diminutive that they only cover an exceedingly small area of the animal's body the siphon is enormously developed and it is protected by a secretion of carbonate of lime in which the shells are immovably embedded the mantle is closed throughout its entire length except at the anterior end where there is a minute opening and at the mouths of the two siphonal tubes.
His object in making the communication was to prove that these two very marked and different types of Lamellihranchiata arose 9 X  from a coinmou or what might be called a central type and that a divergence from some cause set in producing on one side the Ostrea.
and on the other the AsperglUum.
As regards the whole class he said there is no doubt in his mind at least that it is a degenerate one.
lany anatomical and embryological facts as Avell as their life habits point to this it being an acknowledged fact that fixed or stationary animals are as a rule degenerate.
The loss of the head in all adult forms the presence of eyes in the head area of some free swimming embryos and their later total disappearence are some facts that point unquestionably to the degenerate condition of the whole group.
As to the facts of geology pointing to this conclusion he quoted from Prof. Heilprin's work on the Distribution of Animals p. 265.
Almost everywhere the Cephalophora or headbearing mollusks antedate by one full period the Acephala or headless forms which indisputably represent a lower grade of organism.
By considering the group as degenerate the conditions of the case are answered for the Lamellibranchiata certainly came off from the Gastropoda after the latter had become W'cll established as the anatomical and embryological facts show and the geological evidence would seem to indicate this to be the case.
Assuming then that the Lamellibranchiata have come off from the Gastropoda Dr. Sharp then considered what was the form of the primitive type.
It probably had a more or less developed foot an organ that is present in all the Gastropoda that it possessed gills on each side of the foot that the mantle edges were separate and that two adductors were present of about equal size.
This type has survived to the present day and according to Lankaster Art.
Mollusca Brit.
End.
jd.
685 is represented by forms like Nucida and Trigonia.
The former belongs to the family Arcidae Glaus which is the oldest type that we know of being found in the Silurian and Devonian.
The shells of this' family are equal  the adductor muscles of the same size the mantle free not being closed to form tubes like a siphon foot well developed.
The fulcrum of the shell is about equidistant from the adductoi's.
In following one branch from this toward Ostrea it is found that one muscle the anterior gradually gets smaller as is the case in Mytilis and exceedingly small in Pinna until in Ostrea but one muscle is present.
From the fact that in this advance the animal becomes more and more fixed first by a secretion of the foot the byssus then by the shell itself the foot gradually is less and less used as an organ of locomotion until it entirely disappears in Ostrea.
The retractor muscles of the foot now practically useless organs are however still present.
The loss of one adductor muscle can probably be referred to mechanical causes.
In studying the change of relation of the fulcrum to the adductors he found that as the fulcrum moved forward anteriorly it increased the distance from the posterior and lessened the the distance from the anterior muscle.
As this took place the muscle farthest from the fulcrum was always the larger in fact it must of necessity be so as more power was needed at this point while the near one from tlie fact that it does not require much power diminishes in size.
In Pinna one muscle is very much in fact four or five times larger than the other  the smaller being close to the apex of the shell in other words close to the fulcrum.
As the fulcrum passes still farther forward a point is soon reached wdien both muscles come in line with the fulcrum the larger one in this case takes all the work from the smaller one which from its now useless position degenerates to disappearance.
A proceedure from regular to irregular shell is to be seen in the fresh water forms.
Unio he held is probably a fresh water Mijtilis which does not have any byssus present in the adult but has one in the embryo.
A form that closely resembles the oyster can be traced through Aetheria to Muellerla the socalled freshwater oyster.
The later has both adductors ill the embryo but only one like Ostrea in the adult.
In passing now in the other direction Dr. Sharp pointed out the stages connecting the central type to the extreme in AspergUlum.
In passing out from the central type the Areas the group known as the Syphonata appear where besides the large foot it is found that the aboral portion of the mantle has united at two or three points forming one or two tubes.
In some forms of Lucina by the union of the mantle a single tube is formed the socalled anal siphon Avhich corresponds to the superior one when two are present  through this passes the water outwards the inflowing water passing in through the large space between the mantle edges as in the asiphonated forms.
In this form of Lucina specialization has only determined the direction of the outflowing current which carries off the deoxygenated water and the excreta.
In Cardium the siphon is made up of two tubes in other words the ingoing and outgoing currents are now determined.
The edges of the mantle commence to adhere leaving room only for the protrusion of the foot.
In Venus the arrangement is practically the same  a well developed siphon large wedgelike foot which is a locomotor organ a shell entirely covering the animal when it is closed and two well developed adductors equal in size.
The specialization in this line of development is in the direction of the siphon and closure of the mantle.
ATija would represent a form leading to Solen here the siphon is large the mantle more or less adherent but the foot has degenerated to a useless organ and the form of the body still some what resembles Vemis the shell however gajing at the aboral or siphonal end.
In Solen the edges of the shells cannot be brought together or they gape as it is said.
In this form the neAv type has become established and the animal resembles a cylinder  the large siphon fills up the aboral or gaping portion of the shell while the boring foot fills up the oral pole of the shell the mantle being nearly closed between the foot and the siphonal openings.
The shells of Maelia are small for the body and the siphons are so large that they cannot in any way be drawn into the shell a large portion of the mantle also is without the limits of the shell so that the edges of the shell do not even touch in life.
In Teredo no hinge teeth are present nor is even a ligament formed an organ that is present in all other Lamellibranchs except the members of this family and the next one to be considered  besides this a new element is found namely accessory shell pieces.
The enormously developed siphon is four or five times the size of the rest of the body.
The mantle edges are firmly united except at the oral pole where the boring foot protrudes and at the openings of the siphon.
The true shells as well as the accessory pieces are movable that is not united with the calcareous secretion of the mantle.
In GastrocJiaena the shells are very small but still movable the animal being enclosed in a calcarfous shell the secretion of the siphon.
In Clavagella a similar form one shell is welded to the siphon shell the right one only being free and in the extreme form of Aspergillum both shells are immovably fixed in the shelly tube that encloses the animal.
The freshwater forms Cyclas Cyprina etc. are probably related to Cardiimi and have received their new forms by moving into fresh water.
In summing up.
Dr. Sharp showed two branches in the Lamellibranchiata one going off from a form related to Area the other toward Ostrea the fulcrum moving from a position between tlie two equally large adductors toward the oral pole of the body.
This brought the anterior adductor in a line with the fulcrum and posterior adductor where being of no use it disappeared.
In the other direction development is in the anteroposterior direction the shell however not taking part in the growth until a form is reached where the shell is exceedingly small and the animal protected by a supplementary deposit of carbonate of lime.
March 13.
Mr. Charles Roberts in the chair.
Seven persons present.
March 20.
The President Dr. Joseph Leidy in the chair.
Habit of Oirolana concharum.
 Prof. Leidy said that he yesterday went to Atlantic City in the expectation of finding interesting specimens cast ashore in the recent storm biit there proved to be nothing.
He picked up a few recently dead Ladycrabs Platyonichus oceUafus and found in them a number of the Cirolana concharum feastingupon tlie flesh and other parts as he had previously noticed them feeding on the edible crab.
See page 80.
From these observations it would appear to be the usual habit of the Cirolana to irey on dead crabs and jrobably other animals.
Parasites of the Striped Bass.
 Prof. Leidy exhibited numerous specimens of a minute crustacean parasite from the gills of the Striped Bass or Rockfisl Lahrax litieatus brought to our market.
He said it is a common parasite and he had been familiar with it since 1851.
It was described by the Danish naturalist.
Dr. Henrik Kro3er under the name ot Ergasiluf labricis obtained from the same fish at Baltimore Danske Naturh.
Tids.
18684 303 Tab.
xi fig.
2.
Common as it seems to be Mr. R. Rathbun in his published list of the parasitic Cojiepoda from American waters says he had not observed it Proc.
U. S. Nat.
NIus.
1881 483.
The little crustacean lives suspended on the outer surfaces of the gills where it is conspicuous from the white color of its thorax and eggpouches on the red cohjr of the gills.
The length of the parasite together with its eggpouches is 2125 mm without the latter 125 mm.
Prof. Leidy further exhibited portions of two intestines of the same fish with numerous attached worms pertaining to Echiuorlnjnchiis proteus which infested many fishes both of fresh and salt water of Europe.
It is not only a frequent and abundant but a constant parasite of our Striped Bass.
It ranges from 5 lines to an inch in length.
The young ones are white the older have the body yellow bright orange or brownish orange with a white neck and proboscis which together are one fourth the entire length.
Diesing attributes to the rloscis 8 to 10 rows of hooks but Dujardin gives double the number and this accords with the condition observed in our specimens.
The parasite lives in the large intestine with the proboscis and neck together embedded in the wall and the body suspended in the cavity.
The proboscis and bulbous commencement of the neck together protrude externally and form on the outside of the intestine brown pyriform tumours giving to the organ a peculiar tubercular appearance.
The worms exhilit the following characters Body widest at the commencement where it is rounded and slightly constricted from the rest which tapers to the posterior obtuse end.
Proboscis cylindrical but expanded at the middle and base.
Neck verv lono bulbous at the commencement becominsc narrow and cylindrical and a little dilated at the base smooth throughout.
Length of a large one 24 mm  proboscis and neck 6 mm  proboscis 125 mm long 0175 thick 025 at middle expansion  bull of the neck 1 mm narrow part below 0'375 thick at base 0'5 thick.
Body at com.mencemeut 2 mm thick near posterior end 1 mm thick.
126 proceedings of the academy of 1888.
March 27.
The President Dr. Joseph Leidy in the chair.
Twentytive persons present.
A paper entitled Notes on the Myology of Ursus maritimiis hj Edw.
A. Kelly was presented for publication.
Trematodes of the Mushrat  Prof. Leidy stated that in the collection of the Academy there is a vial labelled worms from the duodenum of the Muskrat.
There are 25 worms and in their present condition they are pale brown bordered by dark brown and measure from 12 to 18 mm long by 1 to 15 mm broad.
If not identical they are closely allied to Distomum echinatuni which in the mature state lives in ducks and other water birds and in the larval state in fresh water snails.
The Muskrat eats the latter so that it may likewise become infested in the same manner as the ducks and this would also seem to make it proballe that the parasite is the same.
Dujardin Wedl and others describe D. echinatuin as having the foreart of the body echinate which is not the case with the Distome of the Muskrat though in both the head is armed in the same manner and with the same number of spines.
Its characters are as follow.
Body long flattened baudlike with the neck tapering and the tail obtusely rounded.
Head reniform with a coronet of strongstraight spines from 30 to 36.
Ventral acetabulum much larger than the head situated at the base of the neck a short distance behind the latter spherical.
Body of nearly uniform width.
Oral acetabulum small pharynx oval intestines simple and narrow.
Genital orifice immediately in advance of the ventral acetabulum cirrus exsert to one side curved and smooth  testes situated almost midway between the ventral acetabulum and tail oviducts median behind the ventral acetabulum  ova oval yellow vitelline glands large and conspicuous racemose extending along the intestines from the ventral acetabulum to the end of the tail.
Plead 05 to 0'6 broad spines about 01 long by 002 thick oral acetabulum 025  pharynx O'o long 0'225 wide ventral acetabulum 0875 to 125 mm.
Ova 01 long by 0072 broad.
Since the above communication a collection of worms from the small intestine of a Muskrat has been received.
Eighteen of the worms pertain to the supposed Distomum echlnatum and range from 18 to 25 mm long.
In all the fore part of the body to a short distance behind the ventral acetabulum is finely echinate while the rest is smooth.
Two other worms appear to belong to Amphlstoviuvi siihtriquetrum. 12 and 15 mm long a parasite previously observed only in the Beaver of Europe.
Entozoa of the Terrapin.
 Prof. Leidy stated that he had on one  occasion examined eight of our much esteemed food Terrapins to ascertain the character of their parasites.
All were found to be infested with an Echinorhynchus living in the small intestine and clinging by the thorny head to any part of the canal.
The worms ranged from six to sixteen lines in length and in numbers from five to upwards of two hundred.
The species is Echinorliynchus havmlatus originally described from several of our fresh water turtles.
See these Proceedings 1856 48.
In three of the Terrapins occurred a red thread worm also living in the small intestine and associated with the former and like them clinging by their armed mouth to the mucous membrane.
The species is the Ouculanus microcephalus the males up to nine lines the females from twelve to sixteen lines.
In one Terrapin there were eight in a second over a hundred and in the third upwards of several hundred.
They extended all along the intestine but were most numerous at its upper part.
The females are viviparous and contained living young.
In one Teriapin only also in the intestine there were two flukes the Amphidomum grande about half an inch long.
In the bladder of another Terrapin there was a single Polystomum 3'5 mm long probably P. ohlongum first described by Prof Wright of Toronto from an individual obtained from the bladder of the Musk Turtle Aromochelys odoratus.
In another Terrapin he had found four Polystomes of which three Avere in the throat and the other in the nose.
These pertain to a different species from the former and may prove to be the Polystomum ocellatum found in a similar position in the European Turtle Emys europaea.
At the genital outlet of Polystomum situated ventrally at the forepart of the body the cirrus is surrounded by a circle of hooks.
In P. integerrimum the species best known and found in in Europe living in the bladder of Frogs the genital circle is composed of eight hooks.
Prof. Wright ascribes sixteen hooks to the circle of P. ohlongum and this accords with the number in the Polystomum fiom the bladder of the Terrapin.
In the other Polystomes of the latter he found the circle to be composed of thirtytwo hooks.
Siebold says there are forty hooks to the circle in P. ocellatum.
Dr. Zeller figures the latter from a sketch of Siebold in which the caudal disk is represented as having two large hooks and eight small ones between the posterior jair of bothria.
In the allied Polystomes of the Terrapin the number and arrangement of the hooks of the caudal disk is the same as represented in Prof Wright's figure of P. ohlongum.
If then we have a correct record of the facts the Polystome of the fauces of our terrapin may be regarded as another species which may be distinguished as follows   Polystomum coronatum.
Body Avhen elongated lanceolate.
Caudal disk wider than the body cordiform with three pairs of bothria and with the body attached between the anterior two pairs  changeable in form to oblong circular or quadrate  with three pairs of miuute hooks between the anterior pair of the bothria and with a hirger pair and two small pairs between the hast pair of bothria.
Genital aperture with a circular or a transverse oval coronet of thirtytwo hooks of equal length.
No eyes visible.
Length elongated from 4 to 5 mm.
 contracting to about half the length and widening proportionately.
Besides the foregoing there was found in the intestine of one of the Terrapins a little Distome of 3 mm.
length which though mature he had not the leisure to examine.
He also observed in the throat of one a number of little anguillulalike worms which he likewise did not examine.
In all the Terrapins the flesh liver and other parts than those above mentioned were entirely clear of parasites therefore in preparing these animals for food it is easy to free them from the latter by rejecting the head intestines and bladder  or if it is thought desirable to use the intestines they should be slit open and cleansed of the contents.
Prof Leidy added that he had recently found in the collection of the Academy a bottle labelled  alimentary worms in terrapin.
These proved to be seven botlarvse like those described and exhibited at a former meeting.
See Proc.
1887 393.
Messrs Lancaster Thomas John B. Deaver and Gerritt H. Weaver were elected members.
The following were ordered to be printed 
