LOWER CARBONIC Gasteropoda FROM BURLINGTON IOWA.
BY CHARLES R. KEYES.
Inquiry has disclosed the remnants of an exceedingly rich and varied fauna that in the vicinity of the present city of Burlington Iowa once tenanted the littoral zones of a vast Carbonic sea.
The peculiar lithologieal characters of the depositions are not however conducive to the good preservation of the entombed animal remains and for the most part the vestiges of the gasteropoda are in consequence almost entirely obliterated.
Nevertheless there have been obtained a considerable number of shells the structural characters of which are unimpaired and exhibit in a very satisfactory manner all the generic and specific details.
These reveal a very suggestive chapter in the faunal history of the early Carbonic over the broad interior basin.
More than a quarter of a century has passed since the mollusca of the Kinderhook and Burlington beds have elicited attention.
The early investigations of Hall White and Winchell brought to light numerous interesting forms the greater portion of which were collected in the immediate neighborhood of the locality mentioned.
But since the appearance of the original descriptions of the fossils contained in these rocks there has accumulated considerable additional material which elucidates some hithertoobscure questions relative to the zoological position of the various species and their distribution in time and space.
D. D. Owen l was the first to call attention geologically to the rocks exposed at the city of Burlington.
In his general stratigraphic section of the region he distinguished the upper calcareous or Encrinital layers from the lower shaly portions which he called the argillocalcareous group.
His line of demarkation coincided approximately with that of the present Kinderhook and Burlington divisions  about fifteen feet above the fossiliferous sandstone.
Owen correctly referred these rocks to the age of the lower Carbonic.
Shortly after the appearance of the report on the geology of Wisconsin Iowa and Minnesota Hall 2 in his reconnaissance of eastern Iowa referred the arenaceous member Kinderhook to the Chemung and regarded as synchronous the yellow sandstones at the mouth of Pine creek 1 Geol.
Sur.
Wis. Iowa and Minn. 1852 p. 91. .
2 Geol.
Iowa Vol.
I p. 88 1858.
Muscatine county fifty miles to the northward.
But later investigations prove conclusively as recently remarked by Calvin x that the strata last mentioned are Hamilton sandstones and therefore not continuous with the beds of similar composition farther southward.
White 2 following Hall also considered the lower portion of the Burlington section as Chemung but afterwards 3 concurred with Meek and Wort hen 4 that it was not Devonic but belonged properly to the age following.
Thus after nearly twenty years the original opinion of Owen relating to the correlation in time of the arenaceous beds below the  Encrinital  limestone in southeastern Iowa is finally sustained.
The Lower Carbonic rocks at Burlington have already been treated in detail by Hall and White whose remarks in the present connection will require but little supplementary explanation.
Also recently ' the leading topographical and cenological features of the district under consideration have been briefly presented in a preliminary statement.
A generalized section of the depositions in the immediate vicinage of the city exhibits  Loess .........
Drift lower till Upper Burlington limestone and cherts Lower Burlington limestone and siliceous shales Kinderhook calcareous layers .... Sandstone ....... Limerock ....... Blue clayey and sandy shales  exposed 250 feet.
It is to be noticed that the stratigraphic rocks of Burlington present a maximum exposed thickness of nearly two hundred feet a little more than one half of which may be regarded as Kinderhook.
Lithologically the strata of the lower member are made up chiefly of bluish sandy shales which in some places pass into finegrained sandstones.
Towards the superior limit of this division are several 1 Am.
Geol. vol.
Ill p. 25.
2 Jour.
Boston Soc.
Nat.
Hist. vol.
VIII p. 209 et seq.
s Geol.
Iowa Vol.
I p. 191.
1870.
 Am.
Jour.
Sci. vol.
XXXII p. 177.
1861.
5 Keyes  Am.
Naturalist vol.
XXII p. 1049 et seq.
20 feet 35 n 40 a 45 a 6 a 5  14 ti 85 li feet of gray compact and oolitic limestones.
The upper part of the great arenaceous bed is charged with casts of brachiopod and lamellibranch shells  it also contains a number of gasteropods and a few pteropods.
A similar sandstone ten feet above presents like fauna
peculiarities.
The fossils of the calcareous layers are usually in an excellent state of preservation especially those occurring in the oolites and it is from the latter that the most satisfactory material for serial comparisons is obtained.
The Burlington limestone is preeminently crinoidal in its composition.
It includes also several extensive beds of siliceous shales and cherts.
The greater portion of this division is composed of thickand thinbedded limerock the layers of which are frequently separated by clayey or sandy partings.
Alternating with the firmer strata are often great beds of coarse friable rock made up almost wholly of the disjointed and comminuted skeletal remains of echinoderms.
In all observable characters  stratigraphic faunal and lithologic  the two memberof the Lower Carbonic at Burlington present a very marked contrast The most distinctive feature perhaps is the great preponderance of crinoidal remains in the upper part  while in the lower or Kinderhook there are but few traces of the feather stars.
Attempts have been made at various times to subdivide the Burlington limestone into upper and lower sections the chief basis for separation being the difference in the crinoid fauna
contained.
While in the ensemble there is a very noticeable dissimilarity in the general expression of the species of the two divisions there is not as is claimed a totally distinct group of forms in each.
Recent observations indicate that a considerable proportion of the species in the Lower Burlington are also present in the Upper and even pass with some slight structural modifications into the Keokuk.
With the material already accumulated the transit ionary relations of the various species have been traced and there appears to be but little doubt that the respective fauna
of the two members were the biologic successors of one another at least in the region of southeastern Iowa.
It has further been shown recently  that the limestone of the continental interior usually denominated the Burlington and Keokuk practically belong to a single epoch.
Briefly summarized the general faunal features as set forth in the following pages indicate very different bathymetric conditions during i Kejes Am.
Jour.
Sci. 3j vol.
XXXVIII p. 186. the deposition of the Kinderhook and Burlington beds.
When the strata of the first were being laid down it would seem that in the vicinity of the present city of Burlington there was very shallow water which probably did not have at all times free connection with the open sea.
But in the succeeding epoch it is evident that the depth of the oceanic expanse considerably increased at that place.
In the Kinderhook there is a notable absence of certain classes of animal remains principally crustaceans echinoderms corals and bryozoans while in the Burlington these groups excepting perhaps the articulates are well represented.
On the other hand the mollusca were particularly abundant in the lower but of rare occurrence in the upper division.
Bryozoa are rare  brachiopoda abundant.
The cephalopoda are represented by several genera but individually they are not common  none have been as yet observed in the superimposing layers.
Of the pteropoda several species of Conularia have been obtained.
The lamellibranchiata are quite plentiful and with the exception of two genera are not found in the limestones above.
The gasteropods include upwards of fifteen genera and fifty species.
But only two of the generic groups  Platyceras and Straparollus  have thus far been recognized in the Burlington strata in which there occur eight species of the first genus and two of the second.
In the Upper Burlington Platyceras is especially common and is often found attached to the ventral surfaces of crinoids.
It i worthv of note that several of those shells observed adhering to the stalked echinoderms are specifically identical with certain Keokuk Platycerata and that in both horizons the various forms of gasteropods are associated with crinoids of similar anatomical construction.
Some of the species of Platyceras which are first known in the upper Burlington became in the Keokuk very abundant and widely distributed geographically.
It may also be remarked that the Keokuk forms seem to follow the Burlington species in direct biologic sequence  but that between the Kinderhook and Burlington no such close affinities are traceable in this genus.
The Straparolli of the Burlington rocks are all angulated forms.
In .S'.
lotus Hall there are two well defined angularities  one on the upper side of the whorls  the other on the under side.
The latter is usually more or less rounded  but the former is generally surmounted by a narrow carina which gives it additional prominence.
The upper surface of the volutions is flattened and the spire depressed so as to be on a level with the outer turn thus differing from S. roberti White in which the spire is depressed considerably below the upper surface of the last whorl making the superior carina very conspicuous.
S. roberti appears to be the genetic successor of S. lotus but there is nothing to indicate that either species was immediately derived from any of the Kinderhook forms which are all characterized by regularly rounded volutions.
In the absence from the Burlington beds of the other generic groups of gasteropods represented in the Kinderhook no further comparisons of the forms from the two horizons can be made.
However as previously intimated the general aspect of the molluscan remains under consideration from the lower division points to the existence over the region of a shallow secluded expanse of water perhaps removed for the greater portion of the time from the immediate influence of the great mediterranean sea that at this period stretched away to the southward.
I.
Species from the Burlington Beds.
Platyceras cyrtolites McChesney.
Platyceras cyrtolites McChesney 1860.
Desc.
New Pake.
Foss. p. 71.
This form was originally described from the Burlington limestone of Calhoun county Illinois.
It has recently been obtained from the upper layers of the same horizon at Burlington Iowa.
At the latter place it is quite rare  and the shell is usually exfoliated.
It appears to have its nearest affinities in certain forms of the superimposing Keokuk beds.
Platyceras equilaterum Hall.
Platyceras equilaterum Hall 1859.
Geol.
Iowa vol.
I Supp. p. 89.
Platyceras equilaterum Meek and Worthen 1873.
Geol.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
V p. 518.
Platijceras equilaterum Keves 1888.
Proc.
Am.
Philosophical Soc vol.
XXV p. 236.
This species is one of the most characteristic gasteropods of the Keokuk limestone.
In the upper Burlington rocks it has lately been found attached to the ventral surface of Gibertsocritius typus Hall.
The sedentary habits of the members of this genus have been fully discussed elsewhere and need not he considered here.
Suffice it that fifteen species of this group have been observed on the calyces of various crinoid particularly those having a more or Less depressed or flattened dome.
Like all the individuals resting on Hat crinoidal vaults the shells of this species when thus situated are very much more depressed than in the normal specimens.
The following summary of the habits of certain Platycerata may he here restated 1 many species of Platyceras were stationary during life  2 the nourishment of these gasteropods was derived in part at least from the excrementitious matter of the echinoderms to which they were attached  3 the surface of attachment governs in great measure the form of the shell and the shape of its aperture.
From the evidence at hand it is probable that the genus in America did not survive beyond the close of the Paleozoic.
Platyceras fissurella Hall.
Platyceras fissurella Hall 1859.
Geol.
Iowa vol.
I Supp. p. 90.
Platyceras fissurella Meek and Worthen 1873.
Geol.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
V p. 529.
The srecies under consideration was first obtained from the Keokuk rocks at Nauvoo Illinois  but it appears also to be represented in the upper Burlington.
As shown conclusively by Meek and Worthen the apical portion is not perforated naturally as supposed by Hall  the opening at the apex being merely an accidental fracture.
Platyceras infundibulum Meek and Worthen.
Platyceras sub red ion Hall 1859.
Geol.
Iowa vol.
I Supp. p. 89 I preoccupied I. Platyceras infundibulum Meek and Worthen 1866.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phil.
' p. 266.
Platyceras infundibulum Keyes 1888.
Proc.
Am.
Philosophical Soc vol.
XXV p. 238.
The form for which Hall proposed the name P.subrectum in the supplement to the Iowa report was altered by Meek and Worthen to P. infundibulum the first term having been preoccupied.
Like P. equilaterum this species is widely distributed over the interior basin chiefly through the Keokuk rocks.
In the upper Burlington limestone it has been found adhering to the anal side of Eucladocrinus millebrachiatus W. and Sp.
The blue Keokuk shales of Crawfordsville Indiana have afforded for study an extensive series of this species  and the effect of its station in changing the shape of the shell and in giving rise to the great diversity of forms observed has been very satisfactorily made out.
20 Platyceras latum Keyes.
Platyceras latum Keyes 1888.
Proc.
Am.
Philos.
Soc vol.
XXV p. 242.
A broad depressed form from the upper Burlington limestone.
In this shell there are no folds or imbricating lines of growth observable and it is very probable that the habits of this speeies differed somewhat from its nearest relative P. equilaterum.
It is of rare occurrence though associated forms are quite common.
Platyceras obliquum Keyes.
Platyceras obliquum Keyes 1888.
Proc.
Am.
Philosophical Sue. vol.
XXV p. 241.
A rather large robust species which like the majority of the raolluscan shells from the white limestones of the upper Burlington division is usually exfoliated  and crumbling quickly away it leaves only the internal easts.
Platyceras quincyense MeChesney.
Platyceras quincyense MeChesney 1861.
Desc.
New Foss. p. 90.
Platyceras ijuiucyense Meek and Worthen 1868.
Geo.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
Ill p. 510.
Not uncommon in the upper Burlington and sometimes found resting on the vault of Physetocrhuis ventricosus Hall.
One of the most important distinctive features assigned to this species is its peculiar quinquelobate appearance  but the real cause of the five broadly rounded lobes did not suggest itself until the discovery of an individual adhering to the dome of a erinoid in which the interradial areas were considerably depressed leaving the ambulacra rather highly elevated.
The growing margin of the gasteropod shell in following the inequalities of the surface upon which it rested gradually assumed the lobate form.
Platyceras tribulosum White.
Platyceras tribulosum White 1883.
12 th.
Ann.
Rept.
U. S. Geol.
Sur.
Ter. pt.
i p. 168.
First known from this locality where it is found in the upper beds of the Burlington limestone.
It is one of the few spiniferous species from the American paleozoic rocks  and differs from P. biserale Hall of the same horizon chiefly in having three instead of two longitudinal rows of spines.
These appendages though seldom preserved entire are long slender and tubular.
It may be added that the type is somewhat deformed and is not a characteristic representative of the species.
Straparollus roberti White.
Euomphalus roberti White 1832.
Jour.
Boston Soc.
Xat Hist. vol.
IX p. 22.
This species is very closely allied to S. lotus Hall.
It is however somewhat smaller with the spire depressed below the upper surface of the body whorl.
The superior flattened area is inclinedinwardly thus making the outer carina more prominent .than in Hall's species.
This form was described from the upper beds and occurs in the massive white limestone layers.
It is probably the genetic successor of S. lotus of the lower Burlington and has undergone but slight modifications in structure.
There has always been a considerable diversity of opinion as to the real relations of Euomphalus Sowerby and Straparollus Montfort.
The two groups have commonly been regarded as generically distinct hut equally good reasons have been advanced for considering them synonymous and some writers even go so far as to unite both with Solarium Lamarck.
Whatever may he the final decision in regard to the genera established by Sowerby and Montfort there appears at present no reliable criteria by which a satisfactory separation can be made of the planorbicular forms with angulated whorls and those having the spire somewhat elevated and the volutions rounded.
Although the extreme representatives of the two are apparently very distinct the individuals are so variable and the gradations so complete even among those of the same species that the generic limits usually assigned are not tenable.
Euomphalus is typified by such forms as E. pentagonus Sowerby Straparollus by S. dionyxii Montfort.
Among the Burlington series the first section is perhaps best represented by Hall's Euomphalus latus in which the depressed spire is nearly on a level with the body whorl.
The upper surface of the latter being flattened gives rise to two rather pronounced angularities.
The type of the second section has its best analogue in S. macromphalus.
But there are numerous transitionary forms which are regularly rounded below and with only one carina above or having the angularities very much rounded and in some instances 1 i rely perceptible.
The spire which is considerably elevated in some species in others becomes more and more depressed  even below the level of the upper surface of the last volution.
A number of other generic names have been proposed which seem to be identical with Straparollus  but these require no consideration in the present connection.
In the majority of cases the carina
or angular prominences on the whorls of the Burlington Straparolli appear to be simply thickenings of the shell at those points.
The internal transverse section is circular as shown when the shell is removed from the matrix forming the cast of the inside.
Some species have a thickened shell with the whorls barely in contact or even separated toward the aperture.
In instances of this kind the internal casts have much the appearance of some of the forms for which Sowerby established the genus Phanerotinux.
But with the latter have evidently been included a number of evolute Straparolli.
Straparollus latus Hall.
Euomphalus latus Hall 1858.
Geol.
Iowa vol.
I p. 605.
Shell rather large discoid composed of four to five rather rapidly enlarging volutions plane above  spire nearly on a level with the upper surface of the outer whorl  suture impressed  deeply and broadly umbilicate  aperture nearly circular flattened above.
The broad flattened area occupying the upper surface of the volutions is bordered on each side by a distinct carina the inner being near the sutural line.
Below the outer ridge are sometimes two scarcely perceptible angularities  one around the periphery and the other along the middle of the whorls below.
The latter as shown in young specimens is often well defined but after the shell has become halfgrown the obtuse prominence becomes obscured.
In some specimens the ridge above the periphery is so pronounced as to leave a narrow concave area immediately beneath.
Straparollus latus is the most characteristic form of the genus occurring in the Burlington but it is not very common.
It attains a maximum diameter of eight centimeters.
Metoptoma t umbella Meek and Worthen.
Metoptoma Platyceras f umbella Meek and Worthen 1866.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Ph'ila. p. 267.
Metoptoma
umbella Meek and Worthen 1868.
Geol.
Sur.
Illinois vol.
Ill p. 506.
The generic relations of this and several similar forms from the Lower Carbonic .rocks of the Mississippi basin are not clearly understood.
The species in question do not appear to properly belong to Metoptoma as originally characterized by Phillips in the Geology of Yorkshire and as typified by his M. pileus and M. oblongata.
Though some recent writers have greatly extended the limits of the genus and embraced a variety of other shells it would seem that this enlargement of the generic group is of very questionable utility.
It is very possible that this is the same form as that di scribed by Hall as Platyeeras cupulas in which case the latter term takes precedence.
II.
Species from the Kixderhook Beds.
Naticopsis depressa Winchell.
Naticopsis depressa Winchell 1863.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. p. 22.
No authentic examples from the lower beds of the Burlington section have come under notice though the collections include several casts which may belong here.
If this inference is correct the species certainly presents characters which differ very essentially from the typical forms of the genus.
As originally established by McCoy in 1844 Naticopsis embraced certain paleozoic shells the best American exemplification of which perhaps is the form described by Norwood and Pratten as Natlca ventrieosa from the Coal Measures.
The most characteristic shells of the genus are therefore comparatively thin with the spire very small and short  the outer labrum thin as is also the callosity of the inner lip  the last whorl usually more or less noticeably flattened or slightly concave on the upper half and ornamented towards the suture by numerous small short equidistant cost parallel to the lines of growth surface otherwise smooth.
A number of species have been erroneously referred to the genus while some others described under different generic titles must evidently be transferred to this group.
There are perhaps a dozen valid species of Naticopsis now known from the American paleozoic rocks.
Platystoma bivolve White anil Whitfield.
Platyeeras bivolve White and Whitfield 1862.
Pioc.
Boston Soc.
Xat.
Hist. vol.
VIII p. 302.
The recognition of this genus in the lowest division of the Carbonic is of considerable interest as this is the second American species recorded above the Devonian.
A recent examination of the type specimens reveals a very noticeable departure of this form from Platyeeras and particularly from the immature shells of Platyeeras ventricosmn Conrad with which it has been compared.
The spire in P. bivolve is much more elevated than in the other specie. while the inner lip is much thickened reflexed and anchylosed to the body volution.
The form under consideration is with considerable difficulty distinguishable from some individuals of Platystoma niagarense  Hall notwithstanding the wide separation of the respective horizons of the two species.
Platystoma as defined by Conrad included those subglobose Naticalike gasteropods in which the labrnm joined the body whorl at right angles to the axis of the shell.
The group is typified by P. ventricosum but it is very evident that several species have been assigned to the genus the correct reference ofwhich is very questionable.
In an extensive series of a single species such as may be obtained of P. niagarense at Waldron Indiana the shells show an interesting gradation from those precisely like the types to individuals in which the lip is entirely separated from the body whorl and in some instances the last volution has uncoiled for a considerable distance.
These partially evolute forms often approach closely certain Platycerata and it is very likely that a more careful study of the latter will disclose a nearer relationship betweea the members of the two groups than has heretofore been generally suspected.
This tendency of the volutions to uncoil is also very apparent in several Upper Carbonic species of Naticopsis as well as in various individuals of allied genera.
Platyceras cornuforme Winehell.
Platyceras cornuforme Winehell 1853.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. p. 18.
This is one of the smallest forms of the genus occurring in the lower Carbonic rocks.
It has a wide geographic range in the Kinderhook beds being found not only at Burlington but also at Lodi and other localities in Ohio.
P. vomerium Winehell described from the same horizon has been found only in the form of internal casts in sandstone  and its specific relations cannot at present be satisfactorily made out Platyceras paralium White and Whitfield.
Platyceraa jiaralium White and Whitfield 1802.
Proc.
Boston Soc.
Nat.
Hist. vol.
VIII p. 302.
Examples have been seen from the Kinderhook beds at Le Grand Marshall county and Burlington Iowa also from Lodi Ohio.
.V careful examination of the type specimens shows that the shell is composed of more than two volutions instead of one as stated in the original description.
The spire however is remarkably slender closely incurved but not contiguous.
When partially embedded in the matrix the apical portions are usually not visible thus giving it the appearance of the obliquely conical forms whereas it actually belongs to the typical section of the genus.
In the type the longitudinal plications are much more prominent than in a representative .specimen of the species while in some forms the longitudinal folds are nearly obsolete.
Immature shells are laterally compressed and the surface is perfectly glabrate with no indications whatever of .
plications or imbricating lines of growth.
As the individuals became larger the aperture becomes relatively more expanded and assumes a subcircular outline.
Straparollus macromphalus Winchell.
Straparollus maeromphalas Winchell 1863.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. p. 20.
Shell of medium size composed of about four regularly rounded volutions  spire somewhat elevated  suture moderately impressed  umbilical cavity rather deep  aperture circular.
The spire in this species is more elevated than in any other congeneric form from the vicinity of Burlington except perhaps S. barrisi Win. with which if recent determinations are correct it may prove synonymous.
It has close affinities to Straparollus Euomphalus cyclostomut Hall from the Iowa Devonic rocks at Iowa City.
Among foreign species it bears a striking resemblance to S. eostellatus Sowerby
The form under consideration appears to be the most common species of the genus found in the locality coming from the upper calcareous layers of the Kinderhook.
Straparollus barrisi Winchell.
Straparollus barrisi Winchell 1863.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. p. 20.
This species is closely related to S. maeromphalas Winchell.
It appears to differ in having three barely perceptible angularities on the body whorl and the spire slightly more depressed.
It is from the arenaceous layers of the Kinderhook.
Straparollus Euomphalus amnion.
White ami Whitfield described from the Kinderhook beds of the same locality has not been noted recently.
It is a small form and said to have its closest affinities with S. Euomphalus spergenensis Hall from the Warsaw.
Straparollus obtusus Hall.
Euomphalus obtusus Hall 1858.
Geol.
Iowa vol.
I p. 523.
Shell large planorbiform composed of five to six regularly rounded volutions spire on a level with or slightly below the upper surface of the last whorl suture very deeply impressed upper face of the volutions very slightly flattened on the inner side near the suture umbilicus very broad and shallow aperture circular.
This form was the first of the group recognized from the neighborhood of Burlington and is the most characteristic gasteropod of the Kinderhook at that place.
It occurs in the oolitic layer a few feet below the Burlington limestone and is easily distinguished from all the congeneric species of the locality by its large size  often having a diametric measurement of six centimeters  its greatly depressed spire broad shallow umbilicus and regularly rounded whorls.
In many examples of this species the volutions are barely in contact with one another and in a few instances the outer whorl toward the aperture has actually become separated from the adjoining inner turns.
This fact is of special interest as illustrating the first noticeable departure toward certain evolute Straporolli which have been referred to Phanerotinus of Sowerhy.
From the associated beds Winchell has described a guttapercha cast taken from natural moulds in friable sandstone as Phanerotinus paradoxus.
One of the specimens figured by Hflll Pake.
N. Y. V ii pi.
16 fig.
16 shows the inner volutions still contiguous while the outer whorls are not separated further than very similar casts of undoubted S. obtusus.
Sphaerodoma pinguis Winchell.
Macrochilus pingue Winchell 1863.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. p. 21.
The specimens which evidently represent the group formerly known as Macrochilus are merely imperfect casts from the arenaceous beds of the Kinderhook and their systematic position can at best only be surmised.
But unsatisfactory as the material is it is of considerable interest to find in America the genus present so early in the Carbonic.
Several American Devonic forms have been described under Macrochilus but with perhaps one or two exceptions they have been very imperfect and in most cases merely internal casts.
In Europe however Macrochilus is equally well represented in the Devonic and Carbonic while in this country the genus is confined chiefly to the latter.
Murchisonia prolixa White and Whitfield.
Murchisonia prolixa White and Whitfield 1862.
Proc.
Boston Soc.
Nat.
Hist. vol.
VIII p. 303.
A very characteristic though not common shell from the oolitic hands of the upper Kinderhook.
It is usually found in a more or less fragmentary condition and the structural features are therefore seldom well shown.
The whorls are eight to twelve in number slightly convex with a broad obtuse angularity centrally.
The surface is ornamented by small welldefined revolving costa or ihreadlike lines the one passing along the middle of the whorls leing the most pronounced while those below the median one are considerably smaller than those above.
Three other species from this locality have been referred by Vinehell to Murchisonia but all are more or less imperfect and their trie affinities uncertain.
The first of these 31. quadricincta is said tn be characterized by four small costabelow the revolving band.
Tie other two are 31. neglecta and M. shumardiana.
Belerophon bilabiatus White and Whitfield.
Jtellerophon bilabiatus White and Whitfield 1802.
Proc.
Boston Sod Nat.
Hist. vol.
VIII p. 304.
Specimens of this species have recently been obtained in white silicous nodules.
The deeply and broadly emarginate lip the nearv glabrate surface and a sharp narrow median carina readily distiiguish this form from the associated species of the genus.
Bellerphon panneus White.
Betfrophon panneus White 1862.
Proc.
Boston Soc.
Nat Hist vol.
1 p. 21.
She
globose composed of three or four gradually enlarging volutiois which are visible in the rather small very deep umbilici  periphey somewhat flattened with a very prominent longitudinal carina  he surface marked by sharp equidistant costa passing transverftly across the whorls from the larsre median ridge transversa carina
more or less undulating and irregular bending forward sightly as they leave the central prominence finer lines of growth arevisible between the costa 2 .
This species bears a striking resemblanc to B. tangentialis Phillips from the Carbonic clays of Tournai Belgium.
The transverse ribs of the latter are however slightly farther apart.
Three additional species of Bellerophon have also been described from Burlington.
These are B. scriptifervs White B. vinculatw White and Whitfield and B. perelegan White and Whitfield.
Metoptoma 1 undata Winchell.
Metoptoma undata Winchell 1865.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. p. 131.
A single specimen represented in the collections probably belongs to this species.
Porcellia crassinoda White and Whitfield.
Poreettia crassinoda White and Whitfield 1832.
Proc.
Boston Soc.
Nat.
Hist vol.
VIII p. 303.
No traces of this group have been noticed recently except portiors of a large cast probably belonging to this species.
The other time forms reported from the Burlington locality are P. obl'tquinoia White P. rectinoda Winchell and P. nodosa Hall.
Among the gasteropods that have been recorded from the rocksat Burlington but which have not been observed since the appearaice of the original descriptions are two species of Holopea  H. corica and H. subconica described by Winchell from the Kinderhook bids.
Associated with these two forms is a third diminutive shell aparently belonging to the Turboniche Holopella mira Winchell.
A cast in sandstone has received the name Loxoitema oligospira Vinchell.
Dentalium grandozvum Winchell a form said to resembe D. venustum Meek and Worthen is the only representative oi tins group recognized from the locality.
No specimens of Pletirotonaria have been obtained lately.
