LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS.
IVith refei'ence to the several articles contributed by each.
For Verbal Communications see General Index.
PAGE.
Allen Harrison M. D. On the distribution of colormarks in the Pteropodias 12 Baker Frank C. Remarks on Urosalpinx perrugatus Conr 46 On the modification of the apex in Murex 66 Bancroft Edward.
Coossification of Axis vertebra with the third Cervical.. 419 Brown Authur Erwin.
On a new genus of Colubridse from Florida 199 Ellis J.
B. and Benjamin M. Everhart.
New North American Fungi 219 Ford John.
Description of a new species of Helix 188 Hartman W. D.. M. D. Description of new species of shells.
Plate III.
284 Heilprin Angelo.
Barometric observations among the high volcanoes of Mexico with a consideration of the culminating point of the North American continent 251 The corals and coralreefs of the Western Waters of the Gulf of Mexico.
Plates VI and VII.
303 The Eocene moliusca of the State of Texas.
Plate XI.
393 The geology and paleontology of the Cretaceous deposits of Mexico.
Plates XII XIII XIV.
445 Ives J. E. On Arenicola cristata and its allies 73 Echinoderms from the Northern Coast of Yucatan and the Harbor of Vera Cruz.
Plate VIII.
317 Jordan David Starr.
On the fishes described in Miiller's Supplemental Volume to the Systema Naturae of Linnaeus 48 Keyes Charles R. Synopsis of American Carbonic Calyptrrei das.
Plate II.
150 Leidy Joseph M. D. Notices of Entozoa 410 Meehan Thomas.
Contributions to the lifehistories of plants.
No.
V 266 Osborn Henry Fairchild.
A review of the Cernaysian Mammalia 51 Pilsbry Henry A.
On the anatomy of Aerope cafifra Fer.
Plate I.
41 Note on a Southern Pupa 44 New East Indian Land Shells 186 New and littleknown American Mollusks No.
3.
Plate V. 296 Trochida new and old 343 Description of a new Japanese Scalpcllum 441 Rand Theodore D. Notes on the genesis and horizon of the serpentines of Southeastern Pennsylvania 76 Rex Geo.
A. M. D. Descriptions of three new species of Myxomycetes  3 2. with notes on other forms in Century XXV of Ellis and Everhari's North American Fungi 192 Sharp Benjamin M.D.
An account of the Vincelonian Volcano.
Plate IV.
289 Sterki Dr. V. On new forms of Vertigo 31 Stone Witmer.
Catalogue of the Owls in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 124 On birds collected in Yucatan and Southern Mexico 201 Pennsylvania and New Jersey Spiders of the family Lycosidae
Plate XV.
420 Wachsmuth Charles and Frank Springer.
The perisomic plates of the Crinoids.
Plates IX and X 345 Woolman Lewis.
Geology of Artesian Wells at Atlantic City N. J.... 132 444 1890.
January 7 1890.
Mr. Thomas Meehan VicePresident in the chair.
Twentytwo persons present.
The Council reported that the following Standing Committees had been appointed to serve during the ensuing year   Ox Library.
 Joseph Leidy M. D. W. S. W. Ruschenberger M. D. William W. Jefieris Charles P. Perot J. Bernard Brinton M. D. On Publication..
 Joseph Leidy M. D. George H. Horn M. D. Thomas Meehan Edward J. Nolan M. D... John H. Redfield.
On Instruction and Lectures.
 Isaac C. Martindale Edward Potts George A. Rex M. D. Charles Morris and J. Bernard Brinton M. D. Standing Committee of Council on ByLaws.
 AV.
S. W. Ruschenberger M. D. Theodore D. Rand and Isaac C. Marti ndale 2 10 proceedings of the academy of 1890.
January 14.
Dr. Charles Schaeffer in tlie chair.
Tweutytwo persons present.
The death of J. Frank Kniglit a member was announced.
Pealike Phosphorite from Polk Co. Florida.
 Mr. Edw.
Goldsmith stated that Mr. Jos.
Will cox had received from Mr. E. R. Childers of Fort Meade Fla. a specimen of rock which it is stated is about to be quarried for use as a fertilizer.
The rock extends over a considerable area of territory that is tributary to Peace Creek from the bottom of which stream a large amount of what is supposed to be phosphate of lime is now obtained by two companies operating there.
It is essentially a phosphorite occurring in pealike masses mixed with carbonate of lime fragments of bones and shells small pebbles of quartz and Limonite.
Although the rock is brittle a thin section was prepared for microscopic examination.
This was accomplished by Mr. Lancaster Thomas in a way that is worth noting.
The specimen was completely soaked with boiled Canada balsam prior to the grinding.
The result was a transparent slide.
There was observed besides the above mentioned mixture amorphous silica in which were imbedded acicular crystals of apatite.
The siecific gravity was found to be 2675.
The rock cannot be considered rich in phosphoric acid.
The latter however appears fairly disseminated through the whole mass.
The pealike globules were tested separately together with fragments of bone and the dull browncolored Limonite phosphoric acid being found in each case.
A quantitative determination of the acid has of course commercial interest but is out of the question here.
The name proposed for the rock was suggested by the peashaped globules.
It may be considered as a variety of Phosphorite.
January 21.
The Piesideut Dr. Joseph Leidy in the chair.
Nineteen persons present.
A paper entitled  On the Anatomy of Aerope caffra Fer. by H. A. Pilsbry was presented for publication.
January 28.
Mr. J. H. Redfield in the chair.
Thirty persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication    Remarks on Urosalpinx perrugatus Conr.
By Frank C. Baker. 
On the Fishes described in Miiller's Supplemental Volume to the Systema Naturae of Linnaeus.
By David Starr Jordan. 
Geology of Artesian Wells at Atlantic City.
By Lewis Woolman.
Mr. Carl Edelheim was elected a member.
Henry M. Stanley was elected a correspondent.
The following were ordered to be printed   ON THE DISTRIBUTION OF COLORMARKS IN THE PTEROPODID.
BY HARRISON ALLEN.
In a paper which I contributed to these Proceedings 1888 p. 84 1 endeavored to establish the proposition that the arrangement of the fur and the markings upon the skin in the mammalia were capable of being systematically treated.
Especially I endeavored to correlate the location of colormarks with physiological or morphological factors.
Thus some of the markings are due it is thought to effects of heat and moisture others to the presence of important glands or of special organs  a third group was explained ou the basis of bilateral symmetry etc.
The essay now presented is confined to the further elucidation of the subject as illustrated in the foxbats.
Conformation to a general type of coloration is here easily discerned.
While writers have mentioned some of the details no evidence is presented why they may not constitute the plan upon which descriptions of species should be based.
That some plan is needed is evident.
In no group of mammals is it more difficult to identify siecies where no assistance is afforded by the examination of types or of collections which are authoritatively named.
I hope that this difficulty may be lessened by mapping out the hairbearing surfaces into regions and by separately describing each.
The study of variable species is one of the most interesting phases of modern zoology  the time has come apparently to devote greater care than has been the custom to the most variable of all the chaiacters of the mammalia namely the quality coloration and distribution of the hair.
This exjlanatiou is necessary to account for the minute description of wellknown forms of bats in the ensuing pages.
The regions which will receive names in the descriptions are as follows  The crown.
The face.
The  whisker.
The interramal space i. e.  the region between the horizontal rami of the mandible.
The postmental space i. e.  the space directly back of the mentum.
The occiput.
The side the front and the back of the neck.
The base of the prebrachium.
The side the front and the back of the trunk.
The rum the lower part of which forms the sacral region.
The infraanal region or the space below the anus.
The crown may be said to extend back as far as the ears.
The occiput to reach from the crown to the end of the curve from the crown to the neck.
The face exclusively of the dorsum of the muzzle commonly has the hair directed in varying degrees backward.
The face mav be naked except in clumps or lines which will receive names accordinoto their locations.
The  uhisker is the growth of hair which lies in front of the auricle.
It connects the hair of the crown with that of the side or the front of the neck and the space between the rami.
The hair of the face when directed backward often slightly overlaps the  whisker.
The space between the rami is either of the color of the crown face or of the front of the neck.
As a rule it is a feebly developed region.
The postme7ita I space is a subdivision of the foregoing.
The side of the neck is an important region since the hair is here as a rule longer and coarser than elsewhere.
The clumps usuallv described as  shoulder tufts belong to the side of the neck.
But the tufts are rarely differentiated.
They are well .seen in Cephalotes peroni and Cynopterus marginatus
In most examples the entire cervical region is occupied with hair of a special character and as already remarked may be continuous with the hair in front of the auricle.
The hair oite front of the neck in marked contrast tQ that of the side is almost always thinner and softer and may be almost absent.
Of a shade in common with that of the side it is often of a hue which results from a mixture of this shade with that of the front of the trunk or space between the rami.
In like manner the back of the neck is a weaker region than the side.
Usually marked with the same colors as the side it mav be continuous with that of the back of the trunk or of the occiput.
The base of the prebrachium is not to be confounded with the lower part of the side of the neck where it forms the socalled shouldertuft.
The hair usually forms a clump on the ventral side of the prebrachium near the shoulder.
It may be an extension of the color of the side of the neck of the side of the front of the body or be a special development.
The side of the trimk next to the side of the neck is the most important region.
It appears to be controlled by the position of the mamma since the tract begins at the upper border of the gland.
In Cynopterus marginatns it is confined to the region of the mamma.
It extends in all forms other than the one named the entire length of the trunk becomes woolly and is lost on the inguinal femoral or crural regions.
This tract apjiears to be the same as the region for the colors on the flanks and inner surfaces of the legs of quadrupeds generally.
It is undoubtedly sexual in significance for in addition to its relation to the mamma it lines the depression between the sides of the body and the wingmembrane and forms a sort of pouch in which the young are carried.
The hair is uniformly soft and silky.
The hair of the front of the trunk is shorter than that of the side and usually of varyingly contrasted shades of color.
The back of the trunk begins at the level of the prebrachia usually by a sharply contrasted line with the back of the neck  but it may be continuous with that of this region as in Cynopterus or be separated therefrom by a vertebral stripe as in Harpyia or by a narrowed tract as in Pteropus vielanopogon.
When hairless in the adult as in Cephalotes the region is still sharply limited by the lines of the prebrachia.
The reio'rt oAe sacrum is conveniently separated from that of the back since hair may be retained here when it is absent or rudimental elsewhere as in Cephalotes and P. ynelanopogon.
The  rump includes the region last named and the loin.
The infraanal region is not separated by any limit from the side of the trunk but it is sometimes useful to speak of it distinctively.
The shades on a single hair whether unicolored or having the tip of a different color from the shaft or the base of a different color from the shaft or tip is always to be noted.
The hair which extends from the body to the auricles the wingmembranes and the interfemoral membrane is uniformly unicolored.
The arm may be an exception when it is covered with the hair of the front of the trunk.
The hair at the front of the crown and sides of the face is generally unicolored as also is the whisker.
On the side of the neck the hair may be unicolored when elsewhere the hair is bicolored.
The presence of circumpalpebral hair of contrasting color with the rest of the head or of special patches of color about the eyes which contribute such conspicuous features in many other quadrupeds appear to be absent in the Cheiroptera.
An apparent exception may be made in the instance of P. capistratus  but in this species the hair about the eyes embraces a wide region and if it receives the name circumpalpebral this word must be in a different sense from the one previously employed in the essay on colormarks.
The W'hite patches of hair at the base of the auricle and at the shoulder which are so noteworthy in Epomophorus do not appear to be generally retained.
As already mentioned the clump last named is a differentiation of that of the side of the neck.
The enormous development of the wings dominates nutritive processes at the side of the body.
With these changes the greater development of the hair  coarse as in Pteropus or long and soft as in the order generally  appear to harmonize.
The position of the mamma at the side of the pectoral region also assists in determining the tendencies to lateral developments if we can so conclude from the line of soft long fur which is so commonly found beginning about the mamma and extending down to the thigh.
The prebrachium is distinctly ventral in its relations for the association of the socalled occipitopollical muscle in some forms as in Molossus is more pectoral than napal and the coloration of the base of the skinexpanse naturally partakes of the shades of color of the chest and abdomen.
The woolliness of the hair at and below the anus and at the sacrum is not explicable.
It may be in some way associated with the generative acts.
Pteropus edwardsii.
An adult male.
Crown paler than the back of neck  it is narrowed to a point between the eyes.
Base of the auricle with a clump of dark brown almost black hair.
Directly in front of the auricle is a broad band of hair the  whisker which unites the crown with the hair of the side of the neck.
Oircumpalpebral patch black faintly defined.
Cheekpatch black distinct.
Labial hairs black highly developed at the ricti.
Postmental patch black distinct.
The side of the neck with long coarse unicolored reddiish hair tlie longest of any in the body excepting that of the side of the trunk.
The front and back of the neck like the side but the hair is less red and shorter.
The hair is blackish at the basal third or fourth.
2'he side of the trunk about the mamma with long silky black unicolored hair.
This tract is continuous with that of the outer side of the leg and wing membranes where it becomes shorter and thinner.
The abdomen andihe base of the prebrachliim almost entirely black but with glistening yellowish tips which partially conceal the black color of the shafts.
The hair is less silky than at the sides.
The base of the prebrachium is of a brighter yellow than is the abdomen.
Beloiv the anus and on the inner side of the leg the hair is woolly black with grizzly tips.
The back is black hairs short appressed becoming longer woolly and grizzly at the sacrum and on the legs.
The margin of the endopatagium with a faint line of short black hairs.
Pteropus vulgaris.
1 An adult.
Croivn and nape and tract in front of the auricle dark chestnutbrown.
The crownpatch advances beyond the eyes.
No separate clump at the base of the auricle.
Circumpalpebral jatch is of the same color as the crown and nape.
The crown is unicolored  the nape is bicolored the basal fifth being black.
Face uniformly covered with short brown hair without distinct cheekpatch.
Labial hairs brown well developed.
Post mental jatch black distinct and continuous with the hair of the front of the neck.
Side of the neck with very long silky black hair.
Front and back of the neck with hair of the same character but shorter  that of the front is shorter than that of the back.
The side of the trunk also with exceedingly long black silky unicolored hair.
Some of the hairs are lightly tipped with gray.
The front of the trtuik with short black unicolored hair.
Base of prebrachium black as in the neck.
Arm forearm and wingmembrane brown.
Beloiv the anus the hair is also brown  it is woolly in texture.
The hack is brown with black at basal fourth.
The hair of this tract where it extends on the wingnienibraue is silveryyellow.
The same color characterizes the hair of the extremities.
Endopatagial hairs are conspicuous on the margin of both dorsal and ventral surfaces.
2 An Adult.
The hair as above with the exception that the color on the side of neck side of trunk back and front of neck and of chest and abdomen is brown instead of black.
Pteropus rubricollis.
Three adult skins.
1 In no region is the hair differently colored at shaft and base.
The crown nape and whisker with long erect unicolored gray hair.
The anterior portion of the crown advanced beyond the eyes well on the nose.
The cheek covered with hair of the same character which is continuous with the above.
The ear is covered with hair on both sides.
Cireumpalpebral patch black or gray.
Labial hairs well developed black.
Postmental patch large black and continuous with the hair of the front of the neck.
Side of neck which has a distinctly ventral inclination is covered with very long silky hair of a tawny yellow  the tips being chestnutbrown.
The patch does not extend to the shoulder nor scarcely to the back and front of neck where the hair is more brown.
The shoulder and base of prebrachium is occupied with an equally long patch of black hair which is continuous with the fide of the trunk.
This line closely resembles that seen in P. vulgaris in having the hairs with ashy tips.
The chest and abdomen of the same general color as the sides of trunk but more gray.
The hair of the wingmembranes brownish with gray tips.
The back is covered with long black silky hair with ashy tips The tract advances well up on the neck and the color of the side of the neck dominates scarcely at all the color of the dorsum or ventre.
The expansion of the hair on the wingmembranes at the endopatagium is of the same color as the back of the trunk thus presenting a marked contrast with the disposition in P. vulgaris or is of a dull irongray.
Gray hair covers the humerus and the fleshy part of the forearm.
The fur over the sacrmn is not differently colored from that of the back.
The fur below the anus is long gray unicolored and forms a conspicuous mass of hair between the thighs.
The thighs are clothed to a point nearly to the ankle with tawnybrown or gray fur.
Posteriorly the posterior extremity is covered to the base of the metatarsus or to the bases of claws with hair of the same color.
2 An adult skin.
The color essentially the same as above.
The crown is of a dark irongray color.
The color of the side of the neck distinctly dominates the back of the neck as well as the front.
P. edwardsii P. vulgaris P. rubricollis being all from the same localities viz. Madagascar the following statements respecting them may be useful  In all the crown is distinct from the neck  the cheek hairy  the whisker is present  a disposition exists for the circumpalpebral hair to be distinct  the labial hairs are abundant and of black color  the color of the side of the neck not markedly dominating that of the back or the front the side of the trunk distinctly differentiated.
P. rubricollis is different from the other species inasmuch as the hairs are not dark at the base and with the exception of the tips are of the same color their entire length.
Pteropus edulis.
Seven specimens examined.
1 An adult skin No.
2745.
Crown black with dark red tips.
The patch extends well between the eyes.
Base of auricle naked. 
Whisker  narrow  confined to a rather small tract which meets the backward directed black hair of the face to form a  cowlick.
Cheek patch is absent.
Labial hairs inconspicuous scarcely differentiated from those of the face.
Circumpalpebral patch absent.
Side of neck with long stiff unicolored reddish hair distinctly dominating the back of the neck to form a mantle but yielding to the ventral colors on front of the neck.
Postmental tuft of black hair conspicuous.
Black hair extends on the face and the neck as far back as the line of the ears.
The base oj the prebracTiium and the chest thence to the middle of the ventre of a peculiar dusky shade of color which appears to be intermediate between the color of the side of the neck and that of the chest and abdomen.
The side of trunk with long soft black hair with ashy tips  it is more woolly than on the chest and abdomen.
The back is occupied by a narrow tract of appressed black hair with grizzled tips.
Sacrum irongray  same color of fur extends on the posterior extremities to the upper third of the legs.
The texture is distinctly woolly.
The chest and abdomen covered with short slightly woolly hair of a dark smoky black color with ashy tips.
The hair below the anus does not differ from that of the abdomen.
A few hairs are seen on the dorsal surface of the endoiiatagium.
2 Adult skin.
No.
6538.
As in preceding.
The crown is more red the black hair of the neck below the mandible forming a long distinct  cowlick  in the middle and extending back on the line of the ears.
Line of side of neck with basal plumbeous color.
No intermediate color between the mantle and the color of the chest and abdomen.
The bases of the hairs dark plumbeous on the crown and back of mantle.
3 Adult skin.
A male No.
6541.
Red color extending entirely over the crown below the eye and by a broad  whisker  to the surfiice between rami of the mandible.
The black color of the face is confined indeed to the muzzle.
The nape of the neck and the mantle is of a much lighter shade of red than the side of the neck and the crown.
The shafts of the hair everywhere unicolored.
4 Young adult skin.
A male No.
3668.
The black shades prevail.
The crown sides of face front of neck hair on humerus space between the mandibular rami being this color.
The black hair of the abdomen tipped with brown instead of gray.
Fteropus maklotii.
An adult skin.
Crown of head tawny the basal half being black. 
Whisker  black as is also the neck between the horizontal rami of the lower jaw.
Face llack sparsely covered with hair.
Labial fringe none.
Side of neck distinctly limited from the back and front.
Hair longer and coarser than elsewhere.
The basal half tawny the apical half black with glistening ashy tips.
Back of neck uniform dark brown.
Front of neck black with glistening ashy tips.
Side of trunk with long silky black fur with ashy tips.
Front of chest and abdomen same in color but much shorter and stouter.
Back covered with uniform dark brown appressed hair.
Over sacrum same but more woolly and with ashy tips.
Base of prebrachiinn not distinctly colored from the humerus both being dark brown.
Pteropus medius.
Nineteen skins.
1 Crown dark brown basal third much darker.
Hair almost appressed. 
Whisker  well defined but not forming a  cowlick  with the black hair of the face.
Labial fringe absent.
Hair between the horizontal rami of the lower jaw thick and soft and of a black or deep brown color.
Side of the neck with long thick fur of a tawny or yellow tinge.
Basal half black.
Back of neck the same.
The lower margin of the mantle is of a lighter hue than the rest.
Base of prebrachium anteriorly veutrally clothed with short hair which is of the same color as the humerus namely very dark brown or black.
Side of trunk with very long silky black hair.
Base of the same hue as the tips.
Front of chest and abdomen dull chestnutbrown.
Basal half half black.
Region below anus woolly dark brown.
Back with short appressed hair dark brown to black with gray tips.
Sacrum and legs woolly with same color as the back.
2 Same as No.
1.
Crown more blackish  base of prebrachium same color as mantle.
3 Same as No.
1.
Crown and mantle everywhere tawny no yellow tints on body.
Chest and abdomen and base of prebrachium tawny throughout.
4 Same as No.
1.
smaller probably immature.
Croivn rich chestnut.
Back of neck mantle lightyellow verging to a paler hue.
Base of prebrachium the same as back of neck.
Side of neck front of neck and shoulder at base of humerus light chestnut.
Front of cliest and side of trunk much the same but intermixed with black points.
Back with many dark chestnut points to the prevalent black hair.
5 Same as No.
4.
Front of chest and ahdovien nearly black.
In P. medius it is clearly seen that the basal dark shades are more persistent than the tips.
The region of the crown becomes variable as the chestnut 'and brown tips disappear and permit the basal dark shades to show and give various effects to the general color of the region.
The back seems to be composed of the basal black  the entire length of the hairs being about equal to the dark portions of the hair of the side of the neck and of the mantle.
In group No.
4. the prevalence of the lighter chestnut or yellow shades are substitutions for the tipcolors only for the darker brown or black of the other groups  with the exception of the base of the prebrachium where the hair is entirely yellow as in group 3 it is entirely tawny.
Pteropus poliocephalus.
Six skins of adults.
Croxvn and face and region between the horizontal rami of mandible dark gray.
Hair in front of the ear thicker than elsewhere and verging to black.
No basal contrast.
The hair is thick and long except on the face.
Labial fringe absent.
Side of neck with very long and soft chestnutcolored hair.
The base is black.
The front and hack of the neck is of the same general character.
The contrast between the parts and the side of the neck less noticeable than iu other species examined.
Base of prebrachuivi black and distinctly differentiated from the fur of the surrounding regions.
The side of the trunk slightly more fulvous than the rest of the chest and abdomen where the hair is of a uniform gray tint as the head.
The arm thickly covered with fur of the same character.
With the exception of becoming more woolly the hair of the region of anus that below the anus and on the legs is of the same color.
The back covered with appressed hair but unusually long and soft.
That over the lower sacrum and legs precisely the same as that of the body.
There is a faint hem of hair on both surfaces of the free margin of the endopatagium.
Remarks The confluence of the crown whisker face and region below the lowerjaw  in one color district  the merging of the side of the neck with the front and back  the imperfect differentiation of the color of the side of the trunk from that of the chest and abdomen  the exact resemblance between the front and back of the body and legs readily distinguishes this species from any examined.
With the reduction of the colorregions to three namely the head neck and body the retention of the black tuft of hair at the base of the prebrachium is remarkable.
Pteropus melanopogon.
Twentyfour specimens of the skin of this variable form were examined four of these were identified as male and nine as female.
The remainder were undetermined nine of this remainder were immature.
The specimens will be examined under these heads   1 Two individuals male.
Crown to a little beyond the eyes unicolored black  the rest of crown chestnut at tips  the shaft and base being black.
Nape of the neck unicolored redyellow. 
Whisker  unicolored same color as nape.
Face wnth tendencies to growth of reddish black hairs with black base on the cheek lower eyelid and malar bones and along the horizontal ramus of the lower jaw.
Between these localities the skin is nearly naked.
The space between the horizontal rami covered Avith short hair of the color as tlie above.
The side of neck with long yellow red unicolored hair but slightly differing from that of the back.
The hair only with black base as it joins the hair of the back.
The front of the neck sharply separated from the side in color and texture.
It is less compact unicolored dark reddishbrown much softer.
There is no differentiation at base of prebrachiuvi.
Chest and abdomen uniform dark brown unicolored.
The side of the trunk softer but scarcely longer unicolored almost cinereous.
The infraanal region more woolly.
Back dark brown hairs closely appressed.
The sacrum and parts beyond distinctly woolly.
2 Two specimens.
Apparently old individuals.
No black on croxvn.
Fur everywhere tawny verging in places to light chestnut red excepting the back of the body which is sulphur yellow.
3 One female.
Croivn covered with brown hair having glistening yellow tips. 
Whisker long yellow unicolored.
Clumps on the face beneath eyes and on cheek dark brown unicolored.
Side of lower jaw including masseter muscle dark brown unicolored.
The thinly distributed long tawny hair of the front of neck invades the space between horizontal rami of the lower jaw  the post mental space alone being covered with a clump of brown unicolored hair as on lower jaw.
Side of neck with slightly longer hair than the back but of the same tawny yellow no well defined line separating the two regions.
The base of jirebrachium on ventral surface dark brown the humerus tawny yellow axilla and side of the trunk dark brown.
Therefore three colors are seen at side of body from the upper margin of ventral aspect of the prebrachium to the axilla.
The resemblance to the same parts in P. medins is close.
Side of trunk long silky dark brown unicolored.
Chest and abdomen light brown unicolored.
Infraanal region scarcely woolly same color as above a conspicuous cowlick at the median line at the interfemoral membrane.
Back composed of a narrow tract of appressed tawny yellow hair with brown marginal lines which extend to knees.
Prebrachium entirely naked on dorsal surface.
One specimen only retained a few hairs on dorsal surface of the ulna.
4 One female.
Uniform dark tawny brown everywhere except along the back of the body which is sulphuryellow.
The side of sorrel color and extending thence to the knees of the same brown shade as in group No.
1.
No  cowlick on front of the interfemoral membrane.
5 Two individuals sexes not determined.
Crown dark unicolored brown.
Face with the exception of a naked space between the eye and the cheek covered with the same brown hair. 
Whisker well defined but partially concealed by a prominent cowlick which is formed by the whisker and the backward directed hair of the side of the face.
Interramal space or the space between the horizontal rami of the mandible the same as the face and the crown.
The fur of the front oj neck dark brown and sharply separated from that of the side of the neck as in group 1 of the males  yet the base of the prebrachium is arranged as in group 1 of the females.
The fur of the back of body dark brown with nearly black lateral lines.
6 Nine immature examples.
a Seven of these were twothirds grown 6 one was about half grown and c one with head and body measuring but six inches.
Group a.
This exhibited the general arrangement of colors and of fur as in the adults.
The fur everywhere was silky.
The hair of the back in all examples save one was of a rich olivebrown.
The exception showed the sulphuryellow of the adult male.
In example 6 the fur was everywhere dark brown excepting at the occiput Avhere it was a shade lighter.
In example c the hair was of uniform light brown.
The hair excepting that of the side of neck was scarcely differentiated either in color or length.
In all the nine individuals the skin over the dorsal aspect of ulna was covered with a distinct narrow tract of hair.
In the adults with but a single exception this line was absent.
The crown tends to be very dark brown and unites with the side of the face and the interramal space by a tract the  whiskerwhich extends between the ear and the eye.
The color of the crown is usually abruptly contrasted with that of the occiput.
The space between the eyes may be retained as a narrow patch of dark brown which is nowhere else seen upon the crown.
The occiput is almost uniformly of a bright color.
The back of the neck is chestnut and forms occasionally only a collar.
The sides of the trunk are apt to be differently shaded from the front i. e. they are either lighter or darker than the front.
The region of the pelvis both front and back is almost uniformly woolly and darker than the adjacent fur on the loin and the abdomen.
In twenty examples the crown of the head side of face and under part of the head at the mandible tend to be differentiated from the rest of the body.
The whisker is marked excepting in the very young.
The side of the neck is less distinctly developed yet the tendency for it to be so is seen in young individuals but six inches in length.
The front of the neck is often sharply contrasted in color with that of the side  a peculiarity not seen in any other species examined.
The nape of the neck is apt to be of a lighter color than any other portion of the body.
The differentiation at the base of the prebrachium is of a variable tendency.
The hair of the side of the body is relatively less long than in other species.
The sulphuryellow color of the back of the body is more marked in the female than in the male as is the disposition for the hair of the infraanal region to be furnished with a  cowlick.
The side of the tract on the back tends to be margined with hairs of a different hue from the one which is prevalent as in P. vulgaris.
The presence of a small tract of hair on the dorsal surface of the ulna in one adult only while it is detected in all the nine immature forms is a fact of interest.
The naked patches on the face answer nearly to the lines of dark hair on the face in P. capistratus.
The anterior part of the dark crown in some varieties is precisely of the nature of a median dorsal stripe and appears to be identical with the stripe similarly situated in the species last named.
3 Pteropus capistratus.
Of this species fifteen specimens were examined five of these having a length of forearm of 100 mm.
to 105 mm  seven of 65 mm.
to 80 mm.
and three of 50 mm.
The three last named were certainly immature.
1 Crorvn with median black line the remainder being white.
The' black line distinctly divided anteriorly on dorsum of muzzle.
The eye surrounded with white hair which is directed backward and merges into that of the crown.
An oblique black line extends across the face from near the inner canthusto the angle of mandible.
Directly in front of the whisker a vertical black line extends.
It broadens slightly and merges with the black of the front of the neck and space between the horizontal rami of the lower jaw.
In the space last named the hairs are arranged in the form of two lines with a white space between.
Side of neck white not longer than back.
The occiput yellowwhite.
Base of hair of occiput side front and back of the neck black.
The white hair of the crown and the side of face including the Avhisker unicolored.
No differentiation at the base of prebrachiuiii.
The color of the chest and abdomen dark brown with ashy or pale yellowwhite tips.
Side of body or color of arm scarcely differentiated.
The space about nipple nearly naked sexes not distinguished.
Back much the same but hair slightly appressed.
Margin lighter as in P. vulgaris.
Sacrum and legs to ankle markedly woolly.
Free margin of endopatagium hairy  white hair on dorsum arm and forearm.
2 Same as above with white tips supplanting the yellowwhite of the nape of the neck and the occiput.
3 Same as above everywhere darker the base of the hair becoming conspicuous owing to the partial absence of the apical white.
Black lines on the face absent except the median dorsal of the crown.
The whisker light uniform gray.
The hair about eye and on crown is also gray but darker than the foregoing and is furnished with a dark brown base.
The dark brown of the space between the horizontal rami of the mandible confined to the postmental space.
4 The very immature individuals have entirely white hair on back of neck.
As already noted the lines on the face are essentially the same as the naked spaces in P. melanopogon.
The white color approaches the borders of the eyelids  a narrow line of integument alone intervening.
No collar of black hair at this place discerned.
The wing membranes are marked by numerous irregular lines as in Harpy la.
Cephalotes peronii.
Five examples of this species were examined.
In two of the number a  b the forearm measured 111 mm.
in length  in one c the forearm measured 75 mm.
 in one d certainly immature the forearm measured 80 mm.
 and in another e also immature it measured 65 mm.
a The crown and occiput black.
Face sparsely covered with short black hair which for the most part is directed backward and reaches almost to the ear so that the  whisker tract is obscurely defined if it be present at all.
The side of neck provided with sparsely distributed hair.
The part near the shoulder with an obscure rosettelike arrangement of unicolored olivebrown hair.
The front of the neck is covered with short hair of the same color which appears to be on each side an extension of the rosette upward and to the front of the neck.
The back of neck is of the same color with that of the occiput and crown but of a lighter shade.
The hair is distinctly longer than on the side and is easily distinguished therefrom by its darker hue.
A row of long very distinct bristles is present on both the upper and lower lips.
The bristles of the muzzle and above the eye are also exceptionally conspicuous.
The side of the trunk is distinctly separately marked from the front.
The hair is of a unicolored mouse gray color long and silky.
It is continuous without interruption to the infraanal and femoral regions.
The hair of the front of the trunk is shorter.
The color is brown to tawny.
The endopatagium and mesopatagium is nearly onehalf covered with soft hairs.
The back is naked excepting over the sacrum where a few black hairs are found.
Hair extends along the dorsal aspect of forearm.
2 b c  d. The same as above excepting that the hair over the sacrum is present in a welldefined clump and extends upward onethird the length of the back.
3 e. Fur soft short appressed.
Frontof neck nearly naked the front of trunk quite so.
The sorrel clump is well developed.
A faint but easily discernible longitudinal stripe extends the entire length of the back.
The dorsal aspect of the humerus is covered with short hair.
The hair over the forearm is more marked than in the larger and more mature specimens.
Harpyia major.
Nine examples adult  sex unknown.
Crown to back of eyes unicolored erect whitegray compact hair.
Crown to occiput the same with base plumbeous.
Side of face without differentiation unicolored tawny hair fuller and longer in front of the ear.
Side of neck with long relatively coarse hair  gray nearly entire length but having rusty brown tips.
Front of neck almost naked.
acifc of nec with soft shorter hair the base is very dark with gray tips.
Side of trunk scarcely at all different from the front.
Back of trunk  gray in color long erect with basal twothirds black.
The black vertebral stripe does not extend beyond level of prebrachium.
Endopatagium with hem of hair on dorsal surface.
Interfemoral membrane naked beneath sparsely covered in great part on dorsal surface with short inconspicuous hair of the same color as that of the back.
Cynopterus marginatus
Three specimens were examined all adults  two males and one female.
In one of the males the crown and face were mousegray.
No evidence of a  whisker was present.
The hair of the space between the horizontal rami of the mandible was of different texture from that of the face.
The hair was longer and thinly covered the skin.
The side of the neck without radiating hairs.
The color of this region not differing from that of the front of the trunk which was slategray.
The region of the mamma slightly rufus.
The side of the trunk below the mamma with longer hair than that of the front but otherwise is not differentiated.
That below the anus is continuous with the line last named but is of a more rusty tinge.
The hair of the back is longei than that of the front.
There is no mantle.
The hair is slightly woolly over sacrum and on the thighs.
The fur is everywhere unicolored.
The second male like the foregoing but the sides of the neck with long coarse radiating rusty red hair.
This color dominates the front of the neck.
The same colored but softer hair marks the position of the mamma.
The infraanal region was gray.
The single example of a female was the same as the above excepting that the rusty hue of the mamma dominates the color of the side of the trunk and the rusty hue of the side of the neck extends less evidently on the front.
The differentiation of the region of the mamma is noteworthy in this species.
The hair on the side of the neck according to Dobson is more rusty in the males during the rutting season than at other times.
The region also may be of secondary sexual significance.
It will be noted that the color in the single female scarcely differs from that of the male.
To a less degree than in any form examined were the regions of the head and face distinguished.
The distribution of the hair in families other than the Pteropodidae is not subject to the same sharp contrasts of color nor to the same variety within specific limits.
The subject however is worthy of extended study.
As a rule the disposition to the sides of the neck and body being more heavily furred than elsewhere is evident.
In Chalinolohus as remarked by Dobson the fur of the head and shoulders is darker than the rest of the body.
Atalapha cinerea exhibits the same disposition for the hair in front of the ear and of the interramal space to be darker than the adjacent regions as is noted in some species of Pteropus.
In the young of Atalapha noveboracensis while the head and back including the corresponding aspect of the interfemoral membrane is uniformly clothed the under surfaces of the head neck trunk and interfemoral membrane are naked.
In Artibeus and Carollia an attempt at special dispositions of hair about the eye is clearly discernible.
As is well known a white dorsal stripe on the head and back of Artibeus and on the 1 Catalogue of Cheiroptera in the British Museum.
back in NoctiUo are met with.
In Chilonyderis davyi the back of the trunk is naked as in Cephalotes and Notopteris.
In Vesperugo lasiopterus the disposition for hair to grow along the lines of the raised folds of the wing membranes is evident.
The basal clump of hair which is so commonly present in Vespertilionidte ajpears to correspond to those caudal vertebrre which are in axial line with the trunk.
In the Pteropodidfe the arrangement of the verrucjie is not of the importance assumed in other families.
Thus in the last named the rictal wart may separate the facial from the interramal regions.
The same structure apparently determines the direction of the auricular expanse forward.
The mental warts in like manner forecast the positions of mental leaflets in Noctilio Chilonyderis and 3formops.
The region of the warts at the side of the muzzle becomes the site of remarkable outgrowths in Synotus and Corynorhimts.
In Molossus rufus a group of hairbearing verructe limits the area of distribution of the hair on the dorsum of the interfemoral membrane.
Special patches of hair are met with on the same surface in the female of Miniopteris schreibersii. For the opportunity of examining the material upon which the study of the Pteropodidse is based I am indebted in great part to the courtesy of Mr. F. A.
Ward of Ward's Natural History Establishment Rochester N. Y.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. 1889 p. S22.
ON NEW FORMS OF VEKTIGO.
BY DR. V. STERKI.
It was to be expected that a more exhaustive research for small PupidcB and a closer examination of materials already in the different collections by one observer would bring to light quite a number not only of new species but of new varieties and local forms.
There are now six or possibly seven new Vertigo a part of them having been in my collection for more than three or four years Availing for confirmation.
Two represented by only two examples each  one of them from N. E. Ohio the other from Illinois  are omitted here although I am satisfied they are good species.
The four to be iublished here are established beyond a doubt owing to the kindness of quite a number of conchologists who furnished me specimens and sent me their whole collections of Pupidae for examination.
In place of minute systematic descriptions which will follow elsewhere I prefer here pointing out their main characters and comparing them with species already known.
Vertigo callosa sp.
nov.
There are in collections two diflferent species under the name of V. gouldii Binn.
Their size and coloration is nearly the same at least in most variations as are also the apertural lamellte as to number and position.
Yet they are decidedly and constantly distinct especially by the formation of the outer wall at the aperture.
Judging from the descriptions and more especially from the figures the true V. gouldii is characterized as follows  the last whorl is somewhat predominating thus rendering the whole shell more ovate or conic ovate  the palatal wall near the aperture is decidedly fiattened or impressed the impression comprising also the crest and being especially well marked at the  auricle as I name the more or less projecting part about the middle of the outer margin to have a concise expression forming a roundish groove outside and a decidedly projecting angle inside thus producing the  two curves meeting in the center of the peristome.
A feature not striking but only seen by careful examination is the position of the short toothlike lamella at the base somewhat nearer the margin than the end of the columella the base perceptibly widened at that place  the said lamella is probably an equivalent of the inferior columellar lamella which in most of Vertigos stands very low in many exactly at the base.
The other species V. callosa has the last whorl relatively less wide so that the whole shell is of a more oblong shape.
In the palatal wall only the part behind the crest is somewhat flattened while the latter itself forms one unbroken curve from the base up to the suture and at the moderately projecting auricle there is only a slight flattening.
The inferior columellar lamella is at the end of the columella sometimes wanting or a mere trace.
Well worthy of notice is a peculiar formation of the surface the epiconch showing microscopic wrinkles or foliations in the direction of the lines of growth producing a peculiar silky gloss especially on quite fresh examples and more in some forms than in others.
The first two examples of this species I obtained in 1885 from Mr Henry Moores of Columbus O. and in 1889 I saw a few more in his collection.
In 1887 Mr. E. W. Roper sent me some others from Mass.
Last year in different collections I saw quite a number of specimens from different places in New York near the metropolis under various names  V. gouldii milium ovata and also mixed with hollesiana.
Of the Ohio examples the color is somewhat lighter the callus and the lamellse are strong and white while in the eastern examples they are somewhat thinner and more of the color of the shell.
The name callosa was thus mainly derived from the Ohio form which however may be regarded as a variety.
It is with some hesitation however that I now bring it under this head  it is the equivalent of the European V. pygmaea Drap. of which I have examples for comparison from different countries of the old continent  The two may even be identical  at least it would be absolutely impossible to distinguish New York examples from most Europeans.
Both forms agree also in certain variations of the apertural lamellffi the inferior columellar lamella may be absent in either or there may be present a small suprapalatal fold thus rendering the number variable from 46 the typical however being 5.
An examination of the soft parts will probably decide the question  so far I have not had an opportunity to make it.
On our continent the range of distribution of the two species  V. gouldii and callosa  seems to be somewhat different the former having been found in New York Ohio Illinois and Colorado the latter from Massachusetts to Ohio.
1 Which I have partly collected myself there during a mimber of years.
Vertigo binneyana sp.
nov. Last year Ir.
W. G. Binney kindly piesented me with two examples of a Vertigo collected at Helena Montana by Mr. H. Hemphill which seemed to be of a new species but yet I did not like to publish a description founded upon only these two specimens.
Lately among a number of small Pvpidce from different parts of British America sent by INIr.
Geo.
W. Taylor of Ottawa there were a few examples of this same species from Winnipeg Manitoba dead and weathered but good enough to be identified.
They are of the size and general appearance of V. calloaa very narrowly perforate cylindrical oblong light chestnutcolored  whorls 5 moderately rounded nearly smooth  aperature relatively small peristome little expanded  outer wall with a well formed crest interrupted by a rather long revolving groove  corresponding to the crest there is a callus of lighter color  lamellfe 6  on the apertural wall a small supraapertural and a well developed apertural collumellar appearing rather massive  at the base one rather small but well formed appearing toothlike  palatals 2 long especially the inferior.
L. 20 D. TO mill.
Probabl' there are other examjiles of this species in collections and more will be found in the northwest.
It is named in honor of Mr. W. G. Binney to whom I owe the two beautiful specimens in my collection.
Vertigo oscariana sp.
nov.
This is the most peculiar of our species.
It is of the size of milium but oblong with either end nearly equally pointed the last whorl being considerably narrowed and flattened towards the subtriangular small aperture shell thin delicate of pale horn color as is the palatal wall and margin  the latter simple and straight with a very slight thin callus inside  lamellae 3 whitish rather small  one apertural one columellar longitudinal and the inferior palatal  sometimes there is also a very small superior palatal.
Length 15 diam.
08 m. m. This remarkable Vertigo has been detected in Eastern Florida on the coast at Mosquito Is. etc. by Mr. Oscar B. Webster and his father Mr. Geo.
W. AVebster of Lake Helen Florida.
These gentlemen took much pains to ascertain the range of distribution of this form and some others and it is consequently only just to name the species in honor of Mr. Webster.
The most striking character of it besides the narrowed last whorl is the thin and straight palatal wall and margin so that indeed the shell appears to be immature.
But when seen under a glass of sufficient power the margin is completed and as already mentioned there is a thin callus at a little distance from the margin.
Moreover Mr. Webster wrote me that of more than 150 examples he had seen all were alike.
A few days ago in a lot of P. corticaria Say from Ithaca N. Y. sent from Texas there was one example of this species the shell dead but in fair condition a little larger and less fragile than the Florida examples and with a well marked callus corresponding to a slight but distinct crest.
The specimen may have been collected in New York and from its appearance at least I would ascribe to it an origin north of Florida. By the kindness of Mr Webster I was enabled to see a living example.
The foot and the lower parts of the head are nearly colorless  head eyetentacles and neck light gray.
Jaw very tender thin pale yellow consisting of about 14 longitudinal plates shorter and wider in the middle longer and narrower toward either end  it is much like that of V. tridentata Wolf.
Odontophore about 0'36 mm.
long 01 wide about 110 square rows in each fff teeth  central very small  laterals gradually passing into marginals  the latter serrate.
Different from that of V. tridentata.
Vertigo rugosula sp.
nov. Related to V. ovata and gouldii  in shape more elongated than the latter more cylindrical and somewhat larger.
Apertural parts and lamellae much like those of ovata but the columella is decidedly longer and straighter and the inferior columellar lamella is distinctly placed on it.
L. l82'0 D. 11 mm.
Of a peculiar formation is the surface  of the 5 well rounded whorls about one and a half of the upper are nearly smooth  the following with exception of the last are distinctively and regularly striated the last very finely but distinctly rugose in the sense of the lines of growth near the aperture again striated.
Color dark chestnut.
This is a beautiful species of which I saw the first example in the collection of Mr. Bryant Walker who had found it in April last at Pass Christian Mississiipi.
Last September Mr. W. G. Mazyck collected a number of them on Sullivan's Island S. C. In either place they were in company of Pupa rupicola Say.
Quite lately I have seen one example from Lee Co. Texas sent by Mr. J.
A. Sing1 Since the above was written I found a few examples in drift froip Guadalupe River Texas collected by Mr. J.
A. Singley sent by Mr. Wm.
A Marsh.
ley it was a dead shell and not fully mature but recognizable.
The species consequently seems to be widely distributed along the SouthAtlantic and Gulf Coasts. In eastern Florida Volusia Co. etc. a form has been found to be quite common which I refer to this species but as a distinct variety which may be called ovulum.
It is somewhat smaller ovate the striation and rugosity of the surface are less marked and the inferior apertural lamella is wanting  in turn it has in most examples a lamella at the base between inferior columellar and inferior palatal and the callus in the palatal wall is rather strong.
The coloration of part of them is somewhat lighter.
It cannot be confounded with V. ovata Say its relations to the type of rugosula being evident and in addition ovata has been found with it.
Nor can it be referred to ventricosa  it is larger and stronger of much darker color its surface is not so smooth and polished it has 3 or even 4 lamellie more and the columella is longer.
1 Two specimens were sent in by Mr. H. Hemphill who collected them at Fish Camp Fresno Co. Cal.
February 4.
Mr. William W. Jefferis in the chair.
Twenty persons present.
A paper entitled  The Genesis and Horizons of the Serpentines of South Eastern Pennsylvania by Theodore D. Rand was presented for publication.. February 11.
Dr. Charles Schaeffer in the chair.
Seventeen persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication    Note on a Southern Pupa.
By H. A. Pilsbry. 
A Review of the Cernaycian Mammalia.
By Henry Fairchild Osborn. 
On Arenicola cristata and its Allies.
By J. E. Ives.
February 18.
Mr. Harold Wingate in the chair.
Nineteen persons present.
A Remarkable Variation of Sternonitis Bauerlinii Mass.
 Dr. George A. Rex presented a series of specimens illustrating a strongly marked variation of Sternonitis Bauerlinii Mass. and the successive phases of its reversion to the typical form.
Four years previously he had found on the surface of a decaying log in Fairmount Park Phila. a patch of sporangia of a Sternonitis which by a superficial inspection appeared to be Sternonitis Morgani Pk.
Subsequent examination with the microscope however showed certain peculiarities of structure not found in any known species of Sternonitis.
These variant characters were so marked that they would have justified had they proved constant the creation of a new species and also perhaps a new generic type.
All of the sporangia of the entire growth which covered a superficial area of five or six square inches were alike in structure and perfectly mature so that their unusual form was not due to irregular individual development or immaturity.
The sporangia differed in form from typical Sternonitis in being irregularly threesided or triangular in section in the upper twothirds of their length instead of being cylindrical as usual.
This irregular shape was due to the anomalous position of the columella which was lateral and not central running from the base of the sporangium nearl'to the end in a spiral of about two and onehalf turns appressed and closely attached to the inner face of the sporangium wall.
The internal capillitium usually composed of radial threads running from the central columella to the peripheral network was wanting  but in place of it a few delicate threads bound the columella at short intervals to the periphery and then ramified for a little distance upon the latter.
The sporangium wall or periphery was most remarkable being in efiect a rigid sheath of plasmodic matter perforated by circular and oval openings instead of the peripheral network of threads parallel to the axis of the sporangium which is characteristic of typical Stemonitis.
At intervals on the surface of this plasmodic sheath knots were developed from which short threads branched in all directions sometimes connecting with those binding the columella but generally blending with the substance of the sheath.
As the season was advanced no other specimens were found in that year but in the following year three crops of Stemonitis were successively developed at intervals of about one month on the same area of log surface which had been carefully marked and noted.
Bv a warrantable inference these growths were developed from the spores or part of the same plasmodium as the specimens of the previous year.
Each crop bore the main variant characters of the original specimens but approached successively nearer the true Stemonitis type.
The last found growth differed but slightly from Stemonitis Bauerlinii Mass. yet as it presented all its diagnostic characters the whole series could logically be referred to that species.
These and all similar variations in the sporangia of the myxomycetes are caused by the irregular or unusual differentiation of the formative plasmodium during development.
In the present case the sporangium wall gained an increased amount of plasmodic matter at the expense of the central capillitium.
Whether this change was abrupt or the result of several generations leading to it could not be known but the observations which were made though lacking some of the essentials of scientific exactness seemed to showa very interesting example of the reversion of an extremely variant form to its original type.
The speaker believed that this abnormal form would again be developed and found and he desired therefore to place it on record as Stemonitis Bauerlinii Mass.
f fenestrata.
He acknowledged his indebtedness to the courtesy of Mr. George Nlassee the author of the species for an authentic specimen of Stemonitis Bauerlinii.
38 proceedings of the academy of 1890.
February 25.
Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair.
Fourteen persons present.
The death of Dr. Charles C. Parry a Correspondent was announced.
The following was received   Report of the Committee on the Hayden Memorial Geological Award.
 The committee appointed by the Academy of Natural Sciences to recommend the award of the Hayden memorial medal for the most important contribution to the science of geology has the honor to report to the Academy that is has selected Prof. James Hall the State Geologist of New York for the distinction of receiving the first award of this medal.
In making the selection the committee feels confident that it will have the endorsement of every geologist both here and abroad but it deems it due to the eminent character of the recipient and of the work which he has done for fiftyeight years and is still doing for science that these services should be here formally acknowledged.
Prof. Hall was born at Hingham Mass. on Sept 12th 1811 and is therefore now in his 79th year.
He commenced his scientific life in 1832 when after graduation at the Van Rensselaer Polytechnic school he immediately assumed the duties of a Professor there.
His dedication to the special branch of research to which he has made so many and important contributions began in 1836 when he was appointed Professor of geology at that institution and the same year one of the Assistant Geologists on the then just instituted geological survey of New York.
In 1837 he was made State Geologist in charge of the fourth division of the State.
His final report of this district was made in 1843 and thence with the title of State Geologist he was placed in charge of the paleoutological work.
From this date till 1879 five volumes of the paleontology of the terrains from the Potsdam sandstone to the base of the coal measures have been issued.
He has prepared a complete revision of the paleozoic brachiopoda of North America which is now in press and which has necessarily required researches as far west as the Rocky Mountains.
He was also State Geologist of Iowa in 1855.
In 1857 he was elected State Geologist of Wisconsin.
He has besides prepared monographs of the Graptolites of the Quebec group 1865  two volumes of the geology and paleontology of Iowa 18589  the chaptei's on geography geology and paleontology of Wisconsin in 1862  Fremont's exploring expedition Appendix A.
1845  Expedition to the Great Salt Lake 1852  United States and Mexican Boundary Survey 1857  United States Geological Exploration of the Fortieth Parallel Vol.
IV.
He has published volumes of reports of progress ever since 1866 when on the reorganization of the New York State Museum he was appointed director as well as State Geologist.
Notable among these are Vol.
VI on the Corals and Bryozoa from the Lower and Upper Helderberg and Hamilton  Vol.
VJI containing descriptions of the trilobites and other Crustacea of the Oriskany Upper Helderberg Hamilton Portage Chemung and Catskill  in fact eleven volumes altogether.
He received the grand cross of the order of St. Maurice and St. Lazarus from the King of Italy in 1882 and the Walker quinquennial grand prize of 1000 from the Boston Society of Natural History in 1884.
He is the only surviving founder of the American Association of Geologists which was organized in Philadelphia in 1840 and out of which grew the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
He was one of the charter members of the National Academy of Science and one of the original founders of the International Congress of Geologists at all sessions of the latter of which he has attended having been elected VicePresident representing the United States.
He was elected a Correspondent of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia in 1843 one of the foreign members of the Geological Society of London in 1848 and received its AVollaston medal in 1858.
He was elected Correspondent of the Academy of Sciences of Paris in 1884.
He was the first President elected by the Geological Society of America on its organization in 1889.
Probably no one living has influenced to a greater extent the domain of invertebrate palaeontology and much of the exactitude of knowledge which his researches have introduced into the New York reports have made these the standard of geological nomenclature and classification throughout xmerica.
Joseph Leidy.
J P. Lesley.
Angelo Heilprin.
Persifor Frazer.
William B. Scott.
The following were elected members   Mahlon Walker M. D. William H. Bricker M. D. Samuel G. Dixon M. D. David Jayne Bullock Stephen Farrelly and Baird Halberstadt.
The following were ordered to be printed   ON THE ANATOMY OF AEROPE CAFFRA Fer.
BY H. A PILSBRY.
In the Proceedings of this Academy f'' 1889 p. 277 the writer gave an account of the anatomy of a hoath African land snail.
Helix knysnamsis of Pfeiffer which was there placed provisionally in the genus Aerope pending fuller knowledge of the organization of A. caffra the only species heretofore referred to that genus.
Through the continued kindness of Mr. John Ponsonby of London I am enabled now to describe a specimen of A. caffra which was mailed living at London but encountering some untoward accident en route reached me with the shell broken and the softer tissues of the animal in such a condition that the parcel was regarded with suspicion and aversion by the Postoffice official who gave it me.
Upon dissecting the snail  a fine large specimen  I found it in comparatively good condition but somewhat softened by decomposition although I had placed it in alcohol as soon as received.
The foot is shaped like that of A. kmjsnaensis and measures about 42 ram.
in length 20 in greatest breadth.
The sinus separating the sole from the head is quite deep.
The sole is whitish  the upper surface of the foot and head is blackish.
The dorsal grooves usually prominent in Agnafha are inconspicuous.
There are of course no epipodial grooves nor caudal mucous pore. The buccal mass is very large and long measuring 35 mm.
in length.
The radula pi.
I fig.
a is 40 mm.
long 4 wide.
The formula of teeth is about 16116.
The rhachidian tooth pi.
I fig.
c r and b is narrow lanceolate its basalplate narrow emarginate but not nearly so distinctly forked as in A. ktiysimensis.
The laterals are large set in very oblique rows and increase rapidly in size from the inner to the fifth which is very large.
The basalplates of the inner laterals are oblong but those of the outer fourth and fifth laterals are nearly square.
Outside of the fifth lateral tooth there are about a dozen 1 Two notices of the animal of A. caffra have been published  a short no e byMorch reprinted in the footnote of my previous paper on Aerope Proc.
A. N. S..
Phila. 1889 p. 177  and a description of the external appearance and habits of the animal by Mr. J. S. Gibbons tin the Journal of Conchology IIIp.
95 July 1880..
The species was collected at Port Natal and Port Elizabeth by Mr. Gibbons.
There are short thick conicotriangular labial tentacles visible in the livmg animal as in Glandina etc.
These are wholly retracted in alcoholic specimens.
very minute slender teeth almost obsolete.
A complete half row of teeth is figured on the plate.
The characters of the radula prove as I had anticipated that this species and A. knys7iaensis are congeneric forming a group exhibiting characters distinct from all other agnathous genera.
Comjjared with knysnaensis the A. caffra differs in the greater specialization of the radula seen in the reduction of the lateral teeth to five on each side instead of twelve  and in the smaller outer laterals.
I do not regard the minute teeth lying outside of the fifth lateral as  marginals or uncini but as degenerate lateral teeth  true uncini being absent in the Agnatha which in this respect hold somewhat the same relation to the Gnathojyhora that Rhachiglossa or Toxoglossa bear toward Tcenioglossa.
In the characters of radula Aerope caffra represents the highest specialization of agnathous snail yet made known.
The characteristics of the Agnatha  oblique rows of thornshaped teeth becoming smaller toward the center and the outer edges of the radula  are here exaggerated.
In no hitherto known genus are the functional lateral teeth so few or the outer ones so nearly lost. In no other genus is there so abrupt a break in the size of the lateral teeth.
The tendency in Agnatha seems to be toward a type of radula analogous to that represented in Pectinibranchs by the Toxoglossa.
The genitalia have considerable resemblance to those of A. knysna'ensis.
The vas deferens is curiously convoluted just below the twisted portion of the oviduct see fig.
f.
The albumen gland a.
.
is very large but perhaps more swollen in my figures than in a freshly killed animal.
I did not find any spermatheca but think that this was owing to the soft partly decayed condition of the viscera.
I did not dissect out the ovotestis.
The orifice of the genetalia is very near the right tentacle.
The blind sac opening below the mouth supposed by Dr. Leidy to be the seat of the olfactory sense is very long folding upon itself terminating in the muscular tissues of the foot about onethird the length of the latter from the posterior extremity.
When extended the length of the sac is about 100 mm.
1 Rhytida may be considered more specialized in one respect  the absence of a rhaciiidian tooth.
Explanation of Plate I.
Fig.
a. Radula of 4eroje cqVa natural size.
Fig.
B. Enlarged view of rhachidian tooth.
Fig.
c. Complete halfrow of teeth.
Fig.
D. Genitalia.
P. penis  .
.
penis retractor muscle  v. d. vas deferens  a. g. albumen gland.
Fig.
E. Albumen gland opposite side  e. epididymis.
Fig.
F. Lower portion of oviduct showing the convoluted vas deferens.
Fig's G. H. I. J. K. Papa hordeacella Pilsbry.
tv NOTE ON A SOUTHERN PUPA.
BY H. A. PILSBRY.
During the past year the writer has had occasion several times to examine and determine specimens of a certain Pupa from various localities in the South the extreme points being Arizona and Florida.
It seems to him highly desirable to have a name and a recognizable description and figure for a form so widely distributed and so constantly separated by local naturalists from the already known species as the following   Pupa liordeacella n. sp.
PI.
I figs g h i j k. The shell is of a longovoid shape smaller and more slender than P. servilis Gould translucent waxenwhite finely striate  the aperture is rounded with a thin expanded peristome.
Within there is on the parietal wall an entering fold arising near the termination of the outer lip its edge a trifle sinuous or nearly straight  the columella has a fold about in the middle.
There is a tiny deepseated fold on the base of aperture near the columella an entering fold within the outer lip equidistant from the abovedescribed parietal and columellar folds and a tiny denticle above it.
The columellar fold is not situated so high on the pillar as in P. se7vilis.
The latter half of the bodywhorl is flattened on the outerlower portion as the figure J. shows.
There is a low wavelike ridge or ' crest' also but scarcely visible in many specimens.
Alt.
18 diam.
8 mm.
The figures were drawn with the aid of camera lucida.
They should be compared with Gould's excellent figures of P. servilis in Boston Journal of Natura History vol.
IV plate 16 fig.
14 and those of P. pellucida in Strebel's Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Fauna raexikanischer Landund SiisswasserConchylien Theil iv pi.
xv fig.
10.
The latter are the more valuable in this connection as they are not only faithful drawings on a sufficiently large scale but are the only ones drawn from Continental specimens Vera Cruz Mexico.
The measurements given by Strebel and Pfeffer are alt.
2 diam.
of last whorl fully 1 mm.
 alt.
of aperture t mm.
Gould's P. servilis and Pfeiffer's P. pellucida were both described from Cuba.
I see no reason for not following W. G. Binney in considering them synonymous pellucida having precedence.
The shells above described were at first refei'ed to the P. pellncida of Pfr. or P. servUis Gld.
 and later the writer gave to them the mss.
name of P. hordeacella.
Whether the characters of the form prove constant enough to give it specific rank or whether it will finally be considered a variety or race of P. servlUs Gould is a matter that my acquaintance with the group does not enable me to decide.
In its ccmstantly much smaller size we have a perfectly tangible character that will enable one to readily sejiarate the two forms without the use of a magnifier.
In this connection it will be perhaps useful to point out the fact that in the specimens sent out by Gabb as his Pnjm hordeacea there are two forms mingled.
One is the present species  the other is the true hordeacea a form of about double the size of this with a more acute stronger crest or ridge behind the outer lip and a decidedly pinched base to the last whorl.
P hordeacea has the teeth of the outer lip more deepseated and smaller than P. servilis or P. hordeacella.
The specimens before me are from the following sources   Arizona collected by Dr. Horn  New Braunfels and other places in central Texas collected by Mr. J.
A. Singley and the writer St. Augustine Florida collected by Mr. C. W. Johnson of the Wagner Institute Philadelphia.
The figures on Plate I are drawn from New Braunfels specimens which may be regarded as typical for the species.
46 1890.
REMARKS ON UROSALPINX PERRTJGATUS Conr M BY FRANK C. BAKER.
This mollusk was described by Conrad in the American Journal of Science Xew Series vol.
II 1846 p. 397 as follows   Fums perrugatus Conrad.
Manatee River.
Fusiform with remote longitudinal ribs and large prominent revolving lines alternating with a fine line  whorls longitudinally rugose upjDcr half flat and oblique aperture rather more than half the length of the shell purple within  labrum striate  color of the exterior cinereous.
Proportionally wider than F. cinereus with fewer and larger ribs and lines.
The only references I have been able to find which have been made to this shell since the foregoing description are those by Dr. W. H. Ball in Bulletin No.
37 of the United States National Museum p. 120 and in the Blake Gasteropoda Report p. 214 in which he says There are three American species known to belong to it   Urosalpinx N. cinereAis Say ranging from Massachusetts to Florida  N. tavqxcensis Conrad known only from the west coast of Florida lastly N. 2erruatus Conrad.
Among a number of specimens of cinerexis in the collection of the Academy of Natuxal Sciences of Philadelphia I found several trays of perrngatus and as no really good description and no figure has been published of this species I take this opportunity of redescribing and figui'ing the same.
Urosalpinx perrugatus Conrad.
Shell fusiform solid cinereous under the lens showing a scabrous texture  whorls six subcarinated longitudinally plicate the folds eight in number on the last whorl large rounded  there are eighteen strong spiral lirse with fine intervening threads  aperture ovate rather more than half the length of the entire shell  outer lip rounded 1 Bulletin Museum of Comparative Zoology of Harvard College vol.
XVIII pt.
2. edge scalloped by the spiral lirre  inner lip arcuate smooth  canal lougish open reflexed  umbilicus none but there is a furrow in its place bounded by a fasciole  aperture purple within  apex knobshaped smooth.
Alt.
32 diam.
15 mm.
Aperture including canal alt.
6 diam.
6 mm.
It is separated from cinereus by its greater proportional width its stronger ribs and spiral line and more scabrous texture.
It is at once separated from tampaensis by its sculpture  that of tampaensis being latticed by the intersection of the longitudinal and spiral lines  there are other differences Avhich will at once separate it from that species.
Mr. Tryon in his excellent Manual of Conchology seems to have overlooked this species as it is not given in either text or index.
Specimens have been collected at Cedar Keys Florida by Mr. H. Hemphill and I uudei'stand from collectors that it has been found elsewhere on the west coast.
ON THE FISHES DESCRIBED IN MULLER'S SUPPLEMENTAL VOLUME TO THE SYSTEMA NATURE OF LINNiEUS.
BY DAVID STARR JORDAN.
The edition iu German of the Systema Naturoe of Linnieus published by Professor Philipp Ludwig Statins Miiller at Nuremberg in 1776 has been long overlooked by naturalists and thus for it has never been quoted by writers on fishes.
My attention has been called by Mr. Leonhard Stejneger to the fact that in the supplementary volume of this work a few fishes have been described.
I give in the present paper a list of them.
The copy of the work examined by me belongs to the library of the United States National Museum.
The following are the fishes mentioned   Der Buntkopf.
Coriphaena lineata p. 203. 
Der Kopf ist an diesem Fis.che gedriickt uackt abhiingig und mit bunten Querlinien schon gezeichnet.
Die Kiemendeckel sind glatt.
Oben und unten sind zwey von einander abstehende scharfe liingere und hervorstossende Ziihne vorhanden.
Die Riickeuflosse hat ein und zwanzig Finnen wovon vier scharf sind die Brustfiosse eilf die Bauchflosse sechs und am After befinden sich fiinfzehn.
Die Schuppen sind sehr gross die Flossen welche der Liinge nach stehen mit kleinen Linien bezeichnet und der Schwanz ist abgerundet.
Das Vaterland ist Carolina.
Linnreus.
This is the original of the description given by Gmelin in 1788.
The name Coryphcena psittacus of Linnaeus 1766 is still older and the species will still stand as Xyrichthys psittacus. 
Der Stachelbiirsch.
Perca asper p. 204.
A description of Stizostedion Liicioperca luolgense quoted from  Pallas Reisen.
1 Des I Ritters Carl von Linne  Koniglich Schwedischen Leibarztes sc.
sc.
 voUstandigen  Nalursystems  Supplements  und  RegisterBand  iiber alle I sechs Theile oder Classen des Thierreichs  mit einer  ausfiihrlichen Erklarung ausgefertigel  von  Philipp Ludwig Statius Miiller  Prof der Naturgeschichte zu Erlang.
Mitglied der Rom.
Kaiserl  A kademie wie auch der Berlinischen Gesellschaft der  Naturforscher etc.
 Nebst drey Kupfertafeln.
 Mit Churfurstl.
Sachsischer Freyheit  Niirnberg.
 bey Gabriel Nicolaus Raspe 1776.
This name antedates the use of the same name Perca asjer for Aspro vulgaris by Gmelin. 
Der kleine Seehahn.
Trigla minuta p. 205.
This is the Trigla minuta of Linnreus Mantissa and of Gmelin.
It is said to come from the East Indies and is as yet unidentified. 
Der carolinische Seehahn.
Trigla Cai'olina p. 205. 
Das Exemplar des Ritters war mehr als Finger lang mit sehr feinen Schuppen besetzt und hatte ebenfalls drey fingerformige Fortsiitze.
Die erste Riickenflosse hat zehen stachlige die zweyte dreyzehn weiche die Brustflosse fiinfzehn die Bauchflosse sech.s die Afterflosse zwtilf und die Schwanzflosse zehn Finnen.
Der Kopf ist mit sternartigen Charactern gezieret.
Die Seitenlinie ist einfach und fast glatt.
Der Sohwanz ist ausgerandet und die erste Riickenfinue der Liinge nach mit Stacheln besetzt.
Der Aufenthalt ist im Meere bey Carolina.
Linnwus.
This is identical with the description quoted by Gmelin from the Mantissa of Linnreus.
I have not seen the latter work and do not know whether it is prior to the work of Miiller or not.
Presumably it is. '
Der Nelma.
Salmo Nelma p. 207.
This is Salmo nelma Pallas Salmo leucicktJujs Giildenstadt a Russian species of Stenodus. 
Der Taimen.
Salmo Taimen p. 208.
This is the Salmo taimen of Pallas  Der Lenock.
Salmo Lenok p. 208.
Also quoted from  Pallas Reisen the date of which is 1774 or 1775.
This is the Brachymystax lenok coregonoides which according to Dr. Giinther may be the male of the preceding species. 
Der Springfisch.
Exocojthus exsiliens p. 209. 
In Carolina wird eiu Fisch dieses Geschlechts gefunden dessen Bauchflosse bis an den Schwanz hinan reicht.
Er ist der fliegenden AVachtel No I sehr ahnlich aber das Exemplar welches der Ritter bekam war kaum liinger als ein Finger.
Der Korper ist nicht silberftirbig.
Die Flossen sind blass und haben ein und andere schwarze Binde.
Die Riickenflosse halt zehn die Brustflosse fiinfzehn die Bauchflosse welche wie an der ersten angefiihrten Art mitten zwischen dem Kopfe und After anfangt und nur ein Viertel der Lange vom Schwanze entfernet ist mit dem Ende aber an die Schwanzflos.se stosst dergleichen nicht einmal an der ersten Art statt findet hat sechs die Afterflosse eilf und die Schwanzflosse die am untern Lappen am liingsten ist hat zwanzig Finnen oder Strahlen.
Lin mens.
This is an abridgment of the description given by Gmelin of Exoccetus exsiliens.
Unless some earlier description exists the species will stand as Exoccetus exsiliens Miiller. 
Der Bachkarpfe.
Cyprinus rivularis p. 210.
Quoted from  Pallas Reisen.
This is the Cyprinus phoxinus lainuiens Phoxinus phoxinus.
A REVIEW OF THE CERNAYSIAN MAMMALIA.
BY HENRY FAIRFIELD OSP.ORN.
This remarkably interesting mammalian fauna of the lower Eocene of France has been derived exclusively from a small exposure of the Conglomerat de Cernay near Rheims and described in numerous papers by Dr. Victor Lemoine Professor in the Ecole de Medecine de Reims.
The collection is in the private museum of this author and his contributions are scattered through various French periodicals between 1878 and 1888.
The Cernaysian fauna it thus happens is not thoroughly known or appreciated abroad except by those who have had the good fortune to examine the original types.
The fossils are for the most part in beautiful preservation and the skulls of Ardocyon Pleuraspidotherium and other forms are finer than anything known from European strata of corresponding age.
The abundance of the Insectivora is especially notable for these beds promise to throw as much light upon the early history of this order as the Puerco rocks do upon the Ungulata and Creodonta.
In course of two visits to Rheims I have collected the following brief studies and original sketches for publication after a careful comparison of my own observations with those published by Dr. Lemoine.
I wash to express my high appreciation of the value of the paleon to logical discoveries of this author and my personal indebtedness for the privilege of freely examining his collection.
Articles upon the Cernaysian Mammalia Lemoine 187888.
'78a.
Communication sur les Ossements Fossiles des Terrains Tertiaires Inferieures des Environs de Reims.
Sec.
d'Histoire Naturelle de Reims May 8th 1878.
'78b.
 Recherches s. 1.
Ossem.
Fo.ss.
d. Terr.
Tert.
Infer d. Reims  re partie Etude du genre Arctocyon.
Ann.
des Sc.
Naturelies July 1878 T. VIII.
'79a.
 Comm.
s. 1.
Ossem.
Foss.
des Terr.
Tert.
Infer d. Env.
d. Reims Assoc.
Franc p. I'Avancement des Sciences August 1879.
Reprinted Rheims 1880.
'80a.
 Terrains Tertiaires des Environs de Reims.
Assoc.
Franc p. 1.
Avanc.
d. Sc Reims 1880.
'82a.
 Sur I'Encephale de P Ardocyon Duellii et du Pleiiraspidotherium AninonieriP Bull.
d. 1.
Soc.
Geo de France 3e Serie t. x April 1882.
See also Comptes Rendus April 1882.
'82b.
 Sur deux Plaiaulax tertiaires recuellis a. Env.
d.
Reims.
Comptes Rendus Nov. 20th 1882.
1 The list of papers relating to the Reptilian and Avian fauna of Cernay is equally extensive.
'83a.
 Etude s. 1.
Neoplagiatilax d. 1.
Faune Eocene infer d. Env.
d.
Reim.
Bull.
d. 1.
Soc.
Geol.
d. France.
3Ser.T.
XI 1883.
'83b.
 Sur VAdapisorex nouv.
gen. d. manim.
d. 1. faune Cernays.
d. Env.
d.
Reims.
Comptes Rendus Dec 1888.
'84a.
 Caracteres gen. d. PleuraipidotheriHDi etc.
Comptes Rendus Dec 1884.
'85a.
Etude s. Cuel.
mamm.
d. petite taille d. 1. faun.
Cern.
d. Env.
d.
Reims.
Bull.
d. 1.
Soc.
Geol.
d. France 3 Sen T. XIII Jan. 88r.
'87a.
 Sur le genre Plesiadapis etc.
Comptes Rendus Jan. 1887.
'87b.
 Sur I'Ensemble d. recherches paleon.
faites dans 1' Terr.
Tert.
inf.
d. Env.
d.
Reims.
Comptes Rendus Feb. 1887.
'88a.
 Sur quel.
mamm.
Carnassiers recuel.
dans 1' Eoc inf.
d. Env.
d.
Reims.
Comptes Rendus Feb. 1888.
PERIOD OF THE CERNAYSIAN.
Dr. Lemoine considers the Cernaysian parallel with the American Piierco and below the AVasatch level as the fauna is evidently primitive and local beds are found above this horizon which contain Hyracotherium and other characteristic Wasatch genera.
But Corypliodon is found in the Conglomerat de Meudnn which is generally considered by French geologists as contemporaneous with the Cernaysian.
Upon the whole the prevailing stages of development observed in the teeth of the different series are .somewhat more modern than the Puerco types and offset the contemporary character given by Arctocyon and Neoplagiatilax. The Cernaysian may therefore with some certainty be considered intermediate in time between the Puerco and Wasatch and probably not ftir from parallel with the lower Egerkingen fauna recently described by Riitimeyer.
I have arranged the following table after consulting Professor Gaudry and the geological papers of Lemoine '80a de Lapparent 4 p. 1130 and Geikie 5 p. 844.
Divisions of the Saessonian or Lower Eocene of France Paris Basin.
N. AMERIC..
GT.
BRITAIN.
FRANCE.
C. London Clay .
.
.
Sables de Cuise  .
.
.
 r '  '  '  liyracotiieriiim.
Oldhaven Beds B. Palaeonictis.
Wasatch Argiles a lignites Coiyphodoii.
Woolwich Beds Conglomerat de Cernay de Meudon .
.
PleitraspidotJierium.
Plastic Clay.
A. Calcaires de Rilly la Montagne Protoadapis.
Puerco Thanet Sands .
.
Sables de Bracheux  de la Fere .... Arctocyon priniaevtis.
Marnes de Meudon 1 Corresponding to Jllinclaenus and Plilodtts respectively.
One marked feature of this fauna is that while related to others of the lower Eocene only one of the genera and none of the species have been found elsewhere.
The order best represented is the I ns e c t i V r a with at least four genera then the C r eo d o n t a with three genera the M e s o d o n t a or L e m u r o i d e a and the M u 1t i t u 1 e r c u 1 a t a.
The last is a distinctively Mesozoic order and embraces in this horizon the snge genus Neop lag ianlax the survivor of an ancient and widely spread family.
Leaving this exceptional type out of consideration the following are the general characteristics of the Cernaysian mammals 1.
The teeth are tritubercular and in only one genus Pleiiraspidotherium is the hypocone of the superior molars fully developed  the intermediate tubercles paraand mela Connies so characteristic of the Wasatch mammals are not generally well developed.
In the inferior molars the primitive triangle is in most species broken by the loss of the paraconid.
2.
The brain is small '82a p. 333 Ardocyon Pleuraspidotherinm with large olfactory lobes narrow hemispheres leaving the optic lobes exposed and short transversely extended cerebellum.
3.
The skull excepting in the Lemuroidea has a deep sagittal crest and broad low occiput with slender widelyarching zygomata and the anterior nares small and terminal in position.
4.
The feet are plantiyrade again possibly excepting the lemurs.
One feature of great interest to which Dr. Lemoine called the writer's attention is the invariable presence of the a s t r a g a 1 a r foramen see fig.
5 o.
 this is observed also in all Puerco astragali.
The femur has a third trochanter and the humerus usually has the entepicondvlar foramen.
1 The following is a table of the nomenclature which I have proposed for the tooth cusps equivalent to that employed by Gaudry in the  Euchainements du Monde Aninia p.oo.
See 1 p.
1072.
These terms express the homologies which exist between the upper and lower molar cusps of all the known mammalia excepting those with muitituberculate molars.
Abbr.
Molaires stipeneitres.
Abbr.
I denticule interne du premier lobe protocone pr.
E  externe    paracone pa. e    second  metacone me.
M  median  premier  protoconule pi.
ni  '  second  metaconule ml.
i  interne    hypocone Molaires inferieiires.
E denticule externe du premier lobe protoconid pi denticule interne antrieure paraconid pa I   du premier  metaconid me c  externe du second  hypoconid hyJ i. 
interne    entoconid en'' 54 1890.
With these primitive features in common the orders are nevertheless sharply distinguished from each other and the writer's principal grounds for considering this horizon as more recent than the Puerco are the numerous instances of a high degree of reduction and specialization.
The lemuroids are very abundant with the long slender tail and rotating forearm of the climbers.
Plesiadapis is an exact counterpart in jnolar development of the remarkably reduced Anaptomorphus of the Wasatch while the older Protoadcqns has the fuller dentition of the Puerco Indrodon.
Adapisorex is not a related form as its name would indicate but should be classed with the tiny Adapisorlculas among the Insectivora.
Pleuraspidotherium and Orthaspidotherium were also probably insectivores and as they are both represented by well preserved skulls and portions of the skeleton they constitute by far the best known of the early members of this important order.
All the above animals belong to the smaller and least primitive members of this fauna.
The more ancient fades is given by the small and large Creodouts.
Hycenodictis is a small animal with molars similar to those of the Puerco Triisodon.
Tricuspiodon has an inferior tuberculosectorial of the most primitive type.
Arciocyon is the largest animal with molars of the Puerco Miockenas pattern.
The minute Neoplagiaulax is in a slightly later stage of development than the Puerco Plilodus of Cope.
No Condylarthra have as yet been discovered in the Cernaysian  the absence of ungulates is thus in marked contrast with their abundance in the Puerco and Egerkingen strata.
Calcaires de Rilly Protoadapis  crassicuspidens  recticuspidens. 
curvicuspidens.
THE RHEIMS FAUNA.
Conglomcrat dc Cernay Lemuroidea. 
Protoadapis Copei.
Plesiadapis tricuspidens  Remensis  Gervaisii Insectivora.
Adapisorex Gaudryi  Chevillioni Adapisoriculus minimus Pleuraspidotherium Aumonieri Pleuraspidotherium Delessei.
Orthaspidotherium Creodtnta.
Arctocyon Gervaisii. 
DueiHi.
Ar piles a liniites.
Plesiadapis Daubreei. 
Chevillioni.
Ungulata.
Pachynolophus.
Protodichobune.
Lophiodochoerus.
Lophiodon.
Hycenodictis Gaudryi Hyrenodictis Filholi.
Tricuspiodon.
Procyonictis Proviverra.
Multituberculata.
Neoplagiaulax eocaenus. 
Maishii. 
Copei.
MESODONTA.
Schlosser 2 p. 38 has shown that the American lower Eocene monkeys are probably not lemurs as Marsh and Cope have supposed because the true lemurs with one or two exceptions have incisiform lower canines and caniniform anterior premolars  in other words in most genera the first premolar has the function and form of a canine.
This important distinction renders it probable that Frotoadajyis and Plesiadapis belong among the Mesodonta Pseudolemuroidea Schlosser.
The latter genus has a highly reduced and modified dentition with no resemblance to that of Adapts.
The former has a large canine and much reduced first premolar and resembles some of the American forms.
PROTOADAPIS.
Lemoiue.
P. Plesiadapis recticuspidens Lem.
'78 p. 14.
P.
Pies.
crassicuspidens Lem.
'78 p. 13.
P. ctic'icnspidens Lem.
'78 p. 12.
P. Copei Lem.
'79a p. 7.
Gen.
char.
 Dentition i C pi4 mi.
Inferior molars quinquetubercular.
The first lower premolar occasionally present.
The incisors small.
The canines large.
This is an older and more primitive form than Plesiadajjis as shown by its fuller dentition and the retention of the paraconid which completes the primitive triangle of the lower molars.
These teeth recall the structure seen in Microsyops among the American Mesodonta.
Although belonging to an older horizon we have no positive grounds for supposing that this genus is an ancestor of Plesiadapis or that either of these forms are genetically related to Adapis.
In fact the tendency to a rapid reduction of the premolars and specilization of the incisoi's point away from Adajyis in both cases.
PLESIADAPIS Gervais.
P. n'cmpidens Gervais 3 p..
P. Remtisis Lem.
'87a.
P. Gerfaisiihtm.
'87a.
P. Daubreei.
Lem.
'87a.
Gen. c h a r.  Dentition if c
p mf .
Median superior incisor and one lower incisor enlarged remaining incisors andcanines small or wanting.
Upper mo1 a r s t r i t u b e r c II 1 a r. L o w e r m o 1 a r s qua d r i t u b ere u1 a r. Last lower molar with a third lobe.
Lower jaw.
The large incisor of the type species is tricuspid but there is every shade of variation among the specimens to the unicuspid incisor found in P. Dauhreei.
Behind this tooth is a diasptema.
The premolars consist of a lofty cusp followed by a heel.
The molars except the last are distinctly quadritubercuar with an occasional trace of the paraPig I conid.
Upper j a w. The enlarged inPlesiadapis
Remensis.
cigor is followed by a small lateral incisor Superior molar series about .
mi i 3 natural size.
'Ci canme.
i he last premolar has a slightly reduplicate external cusp.
In the molars the transverse diameter exceeds the anteroposterior and as in Anaptomoiyhus the series is decidedly arched the conules or intermediate tubercles are faintly developed while the hypocone is still a ciugule.
The skull is short and relatively broad with a deep rounded occipital crest.
The chin is rounded  the posterior portion of the jaw is large and deep with a prominent coronoid process.
The skeleton is decidedly lemuroid with a freely rotating radius a third trochanter upon the femur the tibia arched the phalanges long and strong the ungual phalanges flattened and oval at the tip.
INSECTIVORA.
Dr. Schlosser 2 p. 47 has pointed out that Achqnsorex and Adapisoriculus are Insectivora both in tlieir skeletal and dental characters and has also referred them to a new family the Adajmoricidte.
The humerus is perforated.
The femur has a free head and elevated great trochanter.
ADAPISOREX Lemoine.
A. GaitJrvi Lem.
'83b type species.
A. ChcvilioneiA.
Remensis A. miniiniis Lem. '83b.'
See also S5 Plate X. Gen. char.
 Dentition i ci p m.
Lower m o 1 a r s q u a d r it u b e r c u 1 a r. Third molar small and without posterior lobe.
Lower incisors and canines p r o c u mb e n t. The characters of the lower jaw of this small insectivore indicate clearly its wide separation from the above lemuroids.
The jaw is long and slender sloping to the chin with a weak and pointed coronoid and angle.
The enamel upon the first incisor is banded  the second incisor is short while the canine is reduced.
The premolars increase in size piUi being very prominent.
The lower molars diminish raiilly from mi to 
i the latter being very small and lacking the third lobe which is so characteristic of the Mesodonta  the pattern is mainly quadritubercular the paraconid if present being very small.
ADAPISORICULUS Lemoine.
The type of this genus see '85 p. 212 PL XI is much smaller than Adapisorex and well distinguished by the very lofty protoconid and metaconid of the lower molars.
It has otherwise the same characters upon a small scale.
The family relationship with Adapisorex is doubtful.
Decticadapis is another genus of small mammals founded upon two ujper and one lower incisor teeth but not as yet well characterized.
Pleuraspidotherium and Orthaspidotherkim have been considered in the Ungulate series by Lemoine but Schlosser is correct in placing them in the Insectivora although I cannot agree with him in placing them near Erinaceus.
While the molar patterns resemble somewhat those of Erinaceus the comjlexity of the crowns of the posterior premolars removes the idea of relationship which is suggested by this resemblance.
In Centetes Gymnura and Ericulus we observe a similar assumption of the molar pattern by the premolars.
In general the reduction of the dental series between the median incisor and last premolar affords conclusive evidence as to the relationship of these forms to the Insectivora.
ORTHASPIDOTHERIUM Lemoine.
Propoed '8oap.
205.
Gen.
char.
 Dentition if Ct pi m.
U p p e r m o 1 a r s as in Pleuraspidotherium.
Third and f o u r t h u  p e r p r e m o 1 a r s with single external cusps.
Inferior molars with less distinct crests and m w i t h a t h i r d 1 o b e. Fourth lower premolar simple with a posterior heel.
This genus is evidently related as a more generalized form to the following but is distinguished by its smaller size simpler remolars fuller dental series and relative absence of diastemata.
PLEURASPIDOTHERIUM Lemoine.
.
Auvionieri Lem.
'78a p. 1.5 type species.
P. Delessei Lem.
'8la p. 0.
Gen.
char.
 Dentition if cl p
mf .
Upper molars mainly quadritubercular with small intermediate cusps.
L o w e r m o 1 a r s q u a d r i t u b e r c u 1 a r w i t h d i s t i u c t t r a n sversec rests thirdlower molar withoutt bird lobe.
T b i 1d a 11 d f o u r t b u  p e r premolars w i t b single i nt e r n a 1 and paired external cusps.
F o ii r t b lower premolar quadritubercular.
Upper jaw.
Tbe incisors decrease in size laterally forming a series witb tbe small canine bebind wbicb is tbe rudimentary first premolar followed by a diastema.
Tbe tbird premolar is tritubercular  tbe fourtli bas in addition tbe trace of tbe protoconule and is tbus evidently assuming tbe molar pattern.
Tbe outer faces of tbe araand metacones are flattened witb a median cingulum cusp presenting a resemblance to tbe same aspect of tbe inolnvs of Pachynolophus  only tbe second and tbird molars bave developed tbe bypocone and tbe crowns are still subtriangular.
Lower j a w. Tbe lower median incisor is small  tbe second incisor is Ti.EURAspinornERiuM 
Aularge and nearly borizontal.
Tbe anMONIERI.
a Superior molar series  .
  i .
.i i i i 4.1 omitting anterior premolar xj.
b tenor triangle IS Still marked by tbe Inferior molars omitting two anpersistence of tbe paracoiiid.
terior premolars X J .. Lateal and .jj  j   j    inferior views of the premaxillary   .
reirion reduced.
 Anterior view ittal Crest witb a broad low OCciput ofthea.tragalusandcacaneumrej Spreading sagittal crests.
Tbe duced.
e. Distal phalanx associ.
.
ation somewhat uncertain.
mastoid is exposed.
Dr. Lemoiue describes two small bones between tbe frontals and nasals also an interparietal.
Tbe anterior nares are small and terminal in position and tbe posterior nares are placed posteriorly.
Tbe proportions of tbe cranial and facial regions suggest tbose in Bidelphys.
Skeleton.
Tbe limbs are ratber sbort.
Tbere are two sacral vertebrae see '84b.
Tbe femur bas a third trochanter and pit.
Tbe fibula is complete and tbe tibia articulates witb tbe calcaneum '84b.
Tbe astragalus bas a flat trochlea and tbe usual foramen  the neck is long  it articulates distally Avith the navicular only.
The calcaneum bas tbe usual concave cuboidal facet.
Tbe humerus has no condylar foramen.
Tbe structure of tbe radius indicates no power of rotation  tbe ulna has a welldeveloped 1890.
59 olecranon process.
Dr. Leraoine states that the metacarpals are shorter than the metatarsals.
The phalanges spread very slightly and are cleft distally.
The brain shows see '82a elongate olfactory lobes and hemispheres with extremely narrow frontal lobes.
The cerebellum is short and extended transversely.
CREODONTA.
The following genera belong to three families.
Ardocyon to the Ardocyonidae.
Hyaenodldis probably to the Mesonychidae.
Tricnspiodou cannot at present be classed.
Its nearest affinities are with Stypolophus or Didyviidis.
ARCTOCYON De Blainville.
A.
n'maevus De Banve.
A. Gc'rvn'i'V Lem.
'78a p.7 .
A Dueilii'LQm '78a p. 8.
Gen.
char.
 Dentition if c p mf.
The superior mo1 a r s t r i t u b e r c u 1 a r w i t h a w e 1 1 d e v e 1 o p e d h y p o c o n e. The i n f e r i o r molars q u a d r i t u b e r c u 1 a r with the p a r a c o n i d usually absent.
The  r e m o 1 a r s simple.
The general characters of this genus are too well known to require detailed enumeration here.
The type species A.primaevus of de la Fere is the oldest largest and probably the most primitive  it has four premolars the first premolar is one rooted.
The A. Dueilii type of Heterohorus Cope of the Cernaysian also has four premoArctocyon.
A. Diteilii.
b superior molar.
Fig.
4a Superior molars referred to lars  the first premolar is A. Gen'aisli an unworn second .
i j xi    .
A. Gaiisii inferior molar WO rootedj the series IS series viewed from the crown and external side i. compact '78 PI.
Ill fig.
d A. Ger.aisii last inferior molar.
Abbrev.
 y.
 j j.
 j  r protocone rt paracone w metacone ny ... hypocone w melaconule   paraconule.
ativelyshortdeepandmaSsive '78a p. 26.
Dr. Lemoine estimates the posterior molar at c80 anteroposterior diameter.
The A. Gervaisii type of Hyodedes Cope is distinguished by three premolars the elongate and rela  Tertiary Vertebrata p. 259.
60 1890. tively shallow lower jaw  the series is less compact  the posterior molar varies in anteroposterior diameter see c and d fig.
5.
The actual structure of the superior and inferior molars as shown in the accompanying figures is of great interest as the much worn molars of the type species have always been described as quadritubercular and the published drawings of the Cernaysian specimens have given the impression that the crowns are covered with accessory cuspules.
The eflfect of Avear upon the crown is seen in a comparison of the second upper molars shown in a and b.
The latter is a perfect example of the primitive tritubercular bunodont molar with Arctocyon.
a Astragalus and calcaneum.
Abbrev.
 cb calcaneocuboidal facet n astragalonavicular facet  t astragal ar foramen   ac superior and inferior astragalocalcaneal facets.
b Terminal phalanx superior inferior and lateral views.
the three secondary cusps the protoand metaconules and hypocone in their initial stages of development.
This type is seen in Miodaemis and Miolaphus Platycfwerops but is repeated in so many diflferent jhyla that considered independently it forms an insecure basis for taxonomic deductions.
The lower molars are mainly quadritubercular  the anterior half of the crown or primitive triangle is however prominent and in the first molar the paraconid is quite distinct.
HYAENODICTIS Lenioine.
Proposed '79 p. 5.
.
Gaiidiyi Lem.
'85a p. 204.
G e n. c h a r.  L o w e r m o 1 a r s t r e n c h a n t with two elevated cusps protoconid and metaconid and a prominent heel supportingaposteriorpairof basal cusps hypoconid and entoconid.
Fourth premolar trenchant with one m a i n cusp and two prominent basal cusps a nt e r i o r a n d p s t e r i r.
1890.
61 The molars of this genus differ from those of Wjl DissacHs Cope in the double osterior basal cuss and from those of Triisodon Cope in the rless distinct separation of the internal cusps 
metaconid.
They apparently agree with both the above types in the loss or reduction '.
Hyaenodictis.
inof the anterointernal cusp paraconid of the teinal and superior views primitive triangle.
There is a small cusp upon of the fourth premolar   .
 p    .
and second molar xi.
 anterior slope ot the crown but this can hardly represent an element of the primitive triangle.
TRICUSPIODON Lemoine.
Proposed '85 p. 2045.
See also '88a p. 2.
This genus is apparently well established upon the type of a single lower molar bearing a lofty primitive triangle with the three cusps complete.
This portion resembles the tuberculosectorials of Palaeonictis Stypolophus Dichmidis or on a large scale the recent Centetes but the crown as a whole is well distinguished by the rudimentary character of the heel.
This consists of a low simple cusp instead of the broad talon seen in the above genera.
Dr. Lemoine has rightly recognized this tooth as closely related in form to the molars of the Jurassic Peramus and Spalacotherium.
Procyonictis see '85a p. 215 is founded upon a single tooth much less characteristic than the above.
It is composed of a lofty main cone with anterior and posterior It is possibly a premolar of one of the above genera.
MULTITUBERCULATA.
NEOPLAGIATJLAX Lemoine.
A.
Plagiaulax eocaemis Lem.
'80 p. 12 A.
Marshn
 p. 12 reprint.
Genus established '82b.
N. Copei '85 p. 213.
This wellestablished genus is distinguished from Plagicmlax and Ptilodus by the presence of but one premolar.
Dr. Lemoine's collection embraces a number of isolated teeth among them the upper molars.
These c are composed of three rows of minute cones sepvTriTnir IT
' arated by wellworn longitudinal valleys.
Each of these cones is subcrescentoid as in the upper molars of Tritylodon.
The large upper premolar a has an indented border and is similar to that found in the maxFig.
6. ilia of Ctenacodon Marsh with much Neoplagiaulax.
a Prob   j.e i. ably a superior premolar re numerous serrations.
It IS difficult ferred to N. Marshii.
b N. to form any positive opinion as to the posieocaenus.
Probably a superior .j f .j jj. .j gxxx 6.
It is premolar c A superior true  .
molar the posterior portion of approximately the same size as the above tlie crown partly fractured premolar with One elevated row of seven All.
figures enlarged approxi.
   mately .
marginal tubercles and one depressed row of five tubercles.
BIBLIOGRAPHY.
4.
A. de Lapparent Traite de Geologic Paris 1885.
5.
Archibald Geikie Text Book of Geology London 1882.
1.
Henry F. Osborn Evolution of Mammalian Molars to and from the Tritubercular Type.
American Naturalist Dec 1888 p. 1067.
2.
Max Schlosser  Die Affen Lemuren Cheiropteren Insectivoren Marsupialier und Caruivoren des Europjiisclien Tertiiirs.
Wien 1887.
1890.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
63 March 4.
The President Dr. Joseph Leidy in the chair.
Seventeen persons present.
The death of Jacob Ennis a member was announced.
Hypoderas in the Little Bhie Heron   Prof. Leidy stated that Dr. B. H. Warren had submitted to his examination some pieces of the flesh with areolar tissue and fat from two individuals of the Little Blue Heron Florida ccerulea through which were scattered a number of little egglike bodies.
These on examination proved to be a Mite of the genus Hypoderas of Nitsch of which a dozen species found as subcutaneous parasites in different birds have been described by Giebel Zeitschrift gesam.
Naturwis.
1861 438.
The bodies in the Little Blue Heron were enclosed in connective tissue on the surface of the portions of muscles and elsewhere.
They are white elliptical from 1'25 to 1'5 mm.
long by 0'375 mm.
broad and are provided with four pairs of short brown bristly limbs.
In other specimens submitted by Dr. AVarreu consisting of the carcass and portions of the flesh of four individuals of the Bluebird Sialia siali.i similar egglike bodies were found.
They appeared to be embedded in the flesh among the muscular fibers.
In the carcass they were scattered especially on the back of the trunk the neck and the outside of the upper part of the thighs.
They are white elongated elliptical bodies from 1 to 2 mm.
long but without any external appendages.
No distinct internal structure was observed.
Though resembling to the naked eye the Hypoderas Elites they are probably of a different nature and perhaps may be psorosperms.
Notice of an Ichneumon Fly.
 Dr. Leidy exhibited a specimen submitted to him by Dr. J. T. Rothrock who received it from Mr. John A. Webb of Osprey Florida.
It is a caterpillar attached to a twig of Red Mangrove enveloped in a mass of small white cocoons of an ichneumon fly.
The mass nearly two inches long and nearly an inch thick contains 275 cocoons from which were hatched as manv ichneumon flies.
March IL Mr. Thomas Meehan VicePresident in the chair.
Sixtythree persons present.
The death of William Bucknell a member was announced.
On a nerv Bulimidiis  Mr. H. A. Pilsbry exhibited specimens of a new Buliimdus from Texas with examples of the already known species B. Schiedeamis and B. dealbatus.
He stated that the new form while belonging to the same group is slenderer than B. Schiedeanvs and is stronghj longitudbially striate differing in this character from all other known United States 7uu7.
This character will also separate it from Mexican forms of the genus.
The speaker proposed to call it Bidlmxdas Ragsdalei.
March 18.
Mr. Harold Wingate in the chair.
Fifteen persons present.
A paper entitled  Contributions to a further knowledge of the North American Hesperidce.
By Eugene M. Aaron was presented for publication.
March 25.
The President Dr. Joseph Leidy in the chair.
Sixteen persons present.
A paper entitled  Synopsis of the American Carbonic Calyptrteide.
By Charles R. Keyes was presented for publication.
Fossil Vertebrates from Florida.
 Prof. Leidy stated that he had recently ieceived from Archer Florida seven boxes of fossil bones and teeth collected by Mr. J.
B. Hatcher under the direction of Prof Marsh by whom they Imd been submitted to him for examination on account of the United States Geological Survey.
The collection was from the same locality from which others had been formerly sent to him through the Survey.
It contains many specimens of interest but none adding to the species already announced.
For the most part they consist of remains of Mastodon fioridanus Rhinoceros proterus and Auclienia major.
Of the first there are a number of well preserved molar teeth and among them specimens confirming the observation of H. von Meyer that in this genus two premolars succeeded the series of deciduous molars.
According to Mr. Wm.
H. Dall who visited the bone beds the fossils are found in a tenacious clay without pebbles occupying depressions of the oligocene limestone of the country.
The fossils consist of isolated bones fragments of others and teeth mostly of the larger and firmer kind well jireserved and neither waterrolled nor weatherworn.
Portions of skulls and the hollows of Mastodon molars are usually filled with comminuted bones mingled with clay.
A specimen of the skull of a Rhinoceros with all the molar teeth of both sides retained in osition carefully removed together in a mass of clay by Mr. Hatcher was crushed into a multitude of fragments which fell aart on the drying of the specimen.
It would aipear that the more delicate fossils were crushed while embedded in the clay  by what means was not obvious.
Thomas H. Dudley was elected a member.
The following were ordered to be printed   ON THE MODIFICATIONS OF THE APEX IN MUREX.
BY FRANK C. BAKER The embryonic apex in this group consists of from one to one and a quarter in one instance of two and a half polished unvarixed whorls which are either rounded or carinated and are generally provided with a distinct varix at the ending of the embryonic whorl.
The tip of the apex is in many of the species a little depressed and bent down on one side and the top of the embryonic whorl is with one exception that of Murex scolopax Dillw. always rounded.
The embryonic whoi'l is in some species sharply carinated in others rounded with a threadlike carina and in not a few it is simply rounded.
The varix at the ending of the embryonic whorl may be either triangular rounded large or scarcely visible  the presence of this varix indicates without doubt the point where the shell began its independent existence after leaving the egg.
The carina Avheu present begins about midway of the whorl and after traversing the whorl in an oblique direction finally terminates in the suture above the whorl below or is continued in the lowest spiral thread of the succeeding whorl.
The whorls succeeding the embryonic are generally rounded and provided with from nine to thirteen small rounded longitudinal ribs which in turn are usually crossed by four fine spiral threads.
In comparing specimens with the following descriptions they should be held with the varix of the embryonic Avhorl toward the left hand.
The aperture of the shell is no guide inasmuch as each turn of the shell brings the apex in a different position.
In the present communication I have restricted my observations to the typical Mxirex or Trihulus group.
The only author who has described the apices of Murex so far as known to me is Watson who in the Report on Gasteropoda of the Challenger Expedition has given valuable remarks on several of the species treated below as well as some others.
Genus MUREX Linn.
Subgenus MUREX Sensu stricto.
Murex scolopax Dillw.
Fig.
1.
The embryonic nucleus consists of two smooth glossy fulvous whorls of which the second is twice as large as the first  a carina begins at the apex and after traversing the first and second whorls in an oblique direction finally ends in the suture above the third whorl.
The top of the first whorl is flat  the lateral outline of the whorls descends outwardly in a straight slant to the carina and from the carina to the suture below it Pig J slants inward.
The carina of the last whorl is much lower nearer the suture than that of the first giving the two whorls somewhat the appearance of a stumpy smokestack of a locomotive.
The last nuclear whorl ends with a triangular varix where presumably the shell began its growth after leaving the egg  this varix is thick whitish and semitransparent  from this point the shell continues to be nodulous until the spinose varices appear upon the fourth whorl  the suture between the first and second embryonic whorls is very distinct.
There are ten longitudinal ribs to each whorl until the varices appear upon the fourth whorl.
This species is separated from Mxirex oeca Sowb. by the top of the first whorl being flat instead of round as in the latter species.
The varix is triangular and well developed in scolopax whilst in occa it is rounded and not so well developed.
It is separated from Murex tribulus Linn. by the lateral outline of the second whorl being straight instead of rounded as in the latter species.
Murex occa Sowb.
Fig.
2.
The embryonic nucleus consists of two nearly white smooth whorls  the first is a little rounded knob and the second is distinctly carinated and about twice as large as the first  the carina commences about midway of the first embryonic whorl and continues in an oblique direction until it finally disappears in the suture above the third whorl  the latei'al outline of the first whorl is rounded while that ''  of the second is carinated as in the first whorl of scolopax.
The carina of the second whorl is about midway of the whorl.
Looking at the whorls from above they are seen to increase regularly the succeeding whorl being twice the size of the one before it.
The last apical whorl ends with a small threadlike varix  from this varix the whorls are nodulous until the spinose varices appear upon the fourth whorl  there are nine ribs to each whorl until the spinose varices appear  the suture between the first and second embryonic whorls is quite deep  the apex is a little flattened or immersed and bent down on one side.
This species is separated from Murex tribulus Linn. ly the first whorl beina not so compressed the carina not so near the suture behv and in the terminal varix being low inconspicuous and not tiianirular.
Murex tribulus Linn.
Fig.
'.
The nucleus consists of about one and a half glossy horncolored whorls  a carina begins at the apex and continues round the apical whorl until it finally disappears in the sutui'e above the second whorl  the lateral outline of the first part of the whorl descends outwardly in a straight slant to the 'carina and from the carina to the suture below it slants inward  the outward slant is three times the length of the inward Fig 3. slant  the lateral outline of the second part of the whorl descends outwardly in a slight curve to the carina and from the carina to the suture below it slants inward.
The carina is situated but a short distance above the suture of the whorl below almost concealed by the following whorl.
The apical whorl ends with a small threadlike varix  from this varix the wdiorls are nodulous until the spinose varices appear upon the third whorl  there are nine ribs to each whorl until the spinose varices appear the suture between the first and second whorls is a little impressed.
Separated from Murex occa Sowb. by the carina being nearer the suture below and by the varix being slightly shouldered instead of rounded as in occa.
The lateral outline of the whorl is convex in tribulus whilst in occa it is straight.
Murex rectirostris Sowb.
Fig.
4.
The embryonic nucleus consists of about one and onefourth smooth polished rounded whorls  a carina begins after about onehalf a whorl traverses the whorl in an oblique direction and finally runs into the lowest spiral line of the succeeding whorl  the lateral A outline of the whorls shows a more or less rounded appearance  the carina runs just above the suture of the whorl below  the top of the whorl is rounded.
The Fig.
4. last apical whorl ends with a distinct welldevoloped horncolored varix succeeded by three rounded high whorls of slow increase each crossed by about fourteen small rounded ribs and having four spiral coi'ds  the spinose varices appear upon the fifth whorl  the suture between the embryonic whorls is impressed.
Separated from Murex recurvirostrls Sowb. by tlie more oval outline of the first part of the first whorl and by the carina being neai'er the suture in the latter species.
It is also more depressed in form than tliat species.
Murex brevispina Lam.
Fig.
5.
The nucleus consists of one and a half rounded polished brownish whorls of which the first part is a little rounded knob becoming larger and acquiring a sharp spiral carina which encircles its base the carina begins about midway of the whorl and finally runs into the lowest spiFig.
5ral line of the succeeding whorl.
A lateral view shows a rounded outline  the top of the whorl is rounded  the tip is a little depressed.
There is no decided varix at the end of the embryonic whorl  the ribs of the succeeding whorls commence abruptly and continue until the spinose varices appear upon the third whorl  there are about ten small rounded ribs to each whorl.
These whorls are shouldered and have a spiral thread below the shoulder  the sutures are distinct.
This species is separated from Murex nigrispinosus Reeve by the whorl being more depressed.
Murex nigrispinosus Reeve Fig.
fi The embryonic nucleus consists of about one and a half polished rounded whorls the first is a little rounded knob and the second is provided with a fine threadlike carina close to the suture below  the lateral outline of the whorls descend outwardly in a curve to the carina and from the carina to Fig.
6. the suture below it slants inward in a straight line  the second whorl is but little higher than the first.
The last apical whorl ends with a threadlike varix after which they are succeeded by about two unarmed high unvarixed rounded whorls of slow increase each crossed by thirteen small rounded longitudinal ribs and scored by four fine spiral lines  the spinose varices appear upon the fourth whorl  the suture between the first and second embryonic whorls is distinct.
Separated from M. brevkplna Lam. by its more elongated form and less impressed suture.
Murex ternispina Lam.
Fig.
7.
The nucleus consists of one and a half brown whorls  a carina begins near the end of the last embryonic whorl and runs into the a lowest spiral thread of the succeeding whorl  this carina is a very faint thread and is scarcely noticeable unless looked for very closely  the lateral outline shows a very Fig.
7. decided rounded appearance  the extreme point of the embryonic whorl is a little depressed and bent down on one side.
There is no varix at the end of the embryonic whorl  the succeeding ribs commence gradually even before the end of the embryonic whorl and slowly increase in .size until the spinose varices appear upon the fourth whorl  there are nine ribs to each whorl and these are crossed by four fine spiral lines  the suture between the embryonic whorls is impressed.
This species is separated from its congeners by the presence of a threadlike carina near the ending of the embryonic whorl.
Murex tenuispina Lam.
Fig.
8.
The embryonic nucleus consists of two faintly yellowishwhite whorls  the carina is quite close to the suture of the whorl below and is almost concealed.
The varix at the end of the nucleus is small and Fig.
8. rounded  this is followed by close set rounded ribs which continue until the spinose varices appear upon the fourth whorl  there are nine of these ribs to each whorl crossed by four fine spiral lines  the suture between the embryonic whorls is impressed.
This species is separated from Murex brevispina Lam. by the less rotund outline of the first embryonic whorl and by the outline of the second being straight instead of rounded as in brevispina.
Hurex recurvirostris Sowb.
Fig.
9.
The nucleus consists of about one and a half rounded polished brownish whorls of which the second part is but little larger in outAline than the first  a lateral view of the outline shows a rounded appearance the top of the first part of the whorl is rounded  the tip of the embryonic whorl is depressed and a little bent down on one side  a carina Fig.
9commences near the last half of the apical whorl and runs into the lowest spiral thread of the succeeding whorl.
The varix at the end of the embryonic whorl is scarcely larger than the succeeding ribs  after the varix the whorls continue to be nodulous until the spinose varices apear upou the fourth whorl  there are about thirteen small rounded ribs to each whorl crossed v four spiral threads the suture is impressed.
Separated from Murex rectirostris Sowh. ly the more rounded outline of the first part of the embryonic whorl and the absence of the shoulder upon the second iart.
Murex similis Sowb.
Fig.
10.
The nucleus cmsists of one and a half whitish smooth rounded whorls the lateral outline shows a rounded appearance  the first iart of the whorl is a little rounded knob.
Fig.
lo.
A sharp and welldefined varix appears at the end of the embryonic whorl and this is followed by a number of high rounded ribs which cease at the appearance of the spinose varices upon the fourth whorl  there are thirteen of these ribs to each whorl crossed by four fine spiral lines.
This species is separated from Murex ternispina Lam. by the absence of the threadlike carina near the ending of the embryonic whorl.
The sutures are not so deep as in the latter species.. Murex tryoni Hidalgo.
Upon examining this shell I was much surprised to find that it had an apex identical with that of the preceding species.
This may prove to be but a variety of 31. similis as was thought by Dr. Dall.
Murex cailleti Petit.
The embryonic apex of this species is identical with both similis and tryoni.
I have not been able through lack of perfect specimens to examine the apex of the typical motaciUa of 'hemnitz.
Murex aduncospinosus Beck.
Fig.
11.
The nucleus consists of 2
blunt conical glossy fulvus flatsided Awdiorls which increase regularly from the apex  the last whorl is margined below by a very fine thread just at the suture  the lateral outline shows a cone of about Fig.
II.
two regularly increasing whorls of which the second is twice as large as the first.
There is a rounded varix of considerable size at the end of the last embryonic whorl after which they are nodulously ribbed until the hollow spines appear upon the sixth whorl  these are crossed by four fine threadlike spiral lines  the sutures of the embryonic whorls are distiuot.
This is the largest ajOx of the Tribulus or typical Mnrex gn.up.
The present species ditiers wholly fn.iu all the other members of this group in having two and onehalt' whorls instead of one as in those hitherto described.
The whorls are of a glassy texture a feature not possessed by the other members of the group.
1890.
NATIKAI.
SCIENCES OF FIIILADELril lA.
ON AKENICOLA CRISTATA AND ITS ALLIES.
r.Y J. E. IVES.
During the month of July of last year my friend Ir.
Uselma C. Smith collected some specimens of a polychaetous worm belonging to the genus4t''HVca at Anglesea.
about ten miles N. E. of Cape May.
on the New Jersey Coast.
The first specimens seen by him lay iipon tlie beaeh.
apparently dead having perchance left their burrows in the endeavor to reach the water.
Upon further examination he discovered a large colony concealed in the sand along the eige of a pool of water formed by the washing over of the sea.
Four of these specimens were obtained and subsequently handed over to me in alcohol for identitication.
They correspond closely to Arenieoa cristata described by Stimjsou' in 185G from Charleston South Carolina and which with a doubtful exception.
 has not since been reported from the United States.
In his recent paper On Areuicola specimens from the Gulf of Naples Dr. K. Horst has given a detailed account of this species from sjecimens obtained in the editerranean.
The forms from Anglesea answer both in general and microscopical characters to Dr. llorst's description the only ditfereuce being that they possess on the ventral surface of the caudal segments small papilhv.
which will be referred to again later.
Dr. Horst has suggestetl the identity of this species with Arenicola a iVtkN'fV described by Iiitken from the West Indies and uon examination I tind that theXew Jersey sjcimens correspond as closely as possible to Liitken's description.
As alreadv stated there are on the ventral surface of the caudal segments small papilhv.
and these doubtless represent those observed by Dr. Liitken in Arenicola antillensis.
These papilhv.
however Dr. Ilorst did not tind in the Mediterranean specimens but their presence or absence should not in my opinion be considered a specific character..
The length of the longest specimen is about 250 mm. 
Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist. Vol.
5 p. 114.
 Webster Annelida Cliretopoda of New Jersey oOd Ann.
Rep. New 'oik St.ne Mus. 1S79 p. 117.
5 Notes from the Leyden Museum Vol.
xi p. 13.
 Vidensk.
Mcddcl.
fra Naturk.
Forening i Kjobenhavn 1S64 p. lilO.
6 Ill the collection of the Academy are six specimens from the INIanatee River on the West Coast of Florida which although presenting some slight differences I regard as a variety o Arenicola cristata.
They have no papillse on the ventral surface of the caudal segments  the distal ends of the ventral bristles are not serrated and the secondary branchiae have fewer tufts and are less regularly arranged.
The specimens are small the longest about 140 mm.
in length and may be immature.
Ehlers in his work on FloridaAnnelids has already recorded this species from Florida under the synonym of Arenicola antillensis.
On account of the impossibility of drawing any sharp lines of demarcation between the forms from the INIediterranean New Jersey Florida and the West Indies I venture to believe that they must be regarded as representing one species having an unusually wide distribution.
From my study of the other species of the genus in connection with these forms from the New Jersey coast I incline to the view put forward by Dr. von Marenzeller who not including Arenicola cristata and its synonym Arenicola antillensis reduces all the species of the genus to two   Arenicola marina L. and Arenicola ecaudata John.ston.
The sixteen species of the genus which have been described may therefore be reduced to the following three  Arenicola marina L. 6 prebranchial and 1 3 branchial segments secondary branchire with 3 or 4 pairs of lateral tufts.
Europe Greenland New England Vancouver Island Mediterranean South Africa Chili Coquimbo.
Arenicola ecaudata Johnston.
1115 prebranchial and 1340 branchial segments  secondary branchiae arborescent.
Europe Mediterranean Black Sea.
Arenicola cristata Stimpson.
6 prebranchial and 1 1 branchial segments  secondary branchiae plumose.
West Indies Florida South Carolina New Jersey Mediterranean.
The occurrence of Arenicola marina on the northwest coast of Alaska renders it irobable that it will also be found upon the arctic shores of Europe and Asia.
From northwest Alaska it has undoubtedly passed southward to Vancouver Island through Behring Strait the western Gate of the North.
Its distribution north and 1  FloridaAnneliden Mem.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool. Vol.
xv p. 173.
2 Zoologische Jalirbiichef Bd.
3 pp.
1215. south of the Tropics is very anomalous lut future study of the intervening regions may throw some light upon the subject.
The presence of the three species in the warm waters of the Mediterranean is interesting and worthy of note.
Our present knowledge of the distribution of the species of the genus may be summarized as follows  Arenicola marina occurs in the temperate seas of both hemispheres and in the arctic seas of the north  Arenicola eeaudata is confined to the temperate seas of Europe and Arenicola cristata is found in the temperate and tropical Atlantic and in the Mediterranean.
References to the complete literature of the subject will be found in Quatrefage's  Histoire Naturelle des Anneles  and in the papers by Drs.
von.
Marenzeller and Horst already referred to.
