1892. NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357

ECLOGAE BOTANICAE NO. 1.

by edward l. greene.



1. New or Noteworthy Thistles.
Eighteen years have now elapsed since Professor Asa Gray published his  Synopsis of North American Thistles.
 In that paper about thirty species were enumerated six of which were described as new  and four of these six were Californian.
But the vast field of Californian botany had been only very imperfectly explored at that time  and thistles are plants which collectors for obvious reasons neglect.
During the lapse of these eighteen years however more than a halfdozen new thistles have been recognized in California.
Two of them have already been published by the present writer  and the diagnoses of the rest are now to be given.
Dr. Gray in following Bentham and Hooker as to the jDroper name for the genus seems not to have acted wisely for the Cnicus of the ancient Fathers of Botany is Cartliamus tinctorin while the Cnicus of Linnaeus has for its type species what is now commonly known as Cevtaurea benedida  so that whether the initial date for genera be 1753 or 1700 Cnicus is not free for application to this vast genus known to us as Thistles the Latin name of which must be either Carduiis or Cirsium
These two will be retained or else the latter genus will be merged in the former according as the genera be considered distinct or inseparable.
I regard them as inseparable and therefore employ that name which has the sanction of Linntean usage and has been adopted by M. Baillon.
Carduuscrassicaulis
Very stout and tall 4 to 7 feet high  stem an inch in diameter below strongly striate throughout simple up to near the summit there becoming somewhat thyrsoidpaniculate with 3 to 7 shortpeduncled heads H to 2 inches high herbage permanently hoarylanate  leaves small pinnately parted the segments spinosetipped and the whole margin spinuloseciliate  involucral bracts rather lax linearlanceolate to lanceolateacuminate all tipped with a slender straight spine the outer and middle ones with pectinatespinescent 1 Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences Vol.
X pp.
3948 1874. margins segments of the whitish or junkish corolla about as long as the throat.
Abundant in low grassy and occasionally inundated river bottoms of the lower San Joaquin near Lathrop California.
A very well marked and probably rather local species flowering in May.
Carduuscallilepis
Stem and leaves unknown  head pedunculate depressedglobose barely an inch high  bracts of the involucre in many series and closely imbricated the outer broadly obovate all except the innermost exposing roundovoid tips with deeply lacerate scarious or semicartilaginous margins and an abrupt short rigid erect terminal spine the veiy innermost with lanceolate scariousmargined and fimbrillate tips  flowers small ochroleucous the limb of the corolla only a third as long as the throat.
Western California  probably Humboldt Co. the material very scanty but indicating a very pronounced and remarkable species with involucre more like that of a Ceutaurea than of any other known Carduus
Carduushydrophilus.
Rather slender and freely branching 4 or 5 feet high  herbage Avhen young pale with a fine and close arachnoid tomentum in maturity green and glabrate  leaves deeply pinnatifid into uniform 3lobed segments heads numerous little more than an inch high glomerate in twos and threes at the ends of the numerous and paniculate Avidely spreading branchlets involucre ovate the somewhat appressedimbricate scales pluriserial rather firm with a green and glutinous ridge toward the summit and ending in a short slender erect or slightly spreading spine  corollas deep rosepurple the limb about equalling the throat  pappus bristles very delicately and sparsely longplumose below naked at the aristiform or clavellate tips.
Very common in the brackish marshes of Suisun Bay California where it grows within reach of tide water and is associated with the equally local Cieuta Bolanderi and flowers in July.
Carduusoccidentalis Nutt.
Trans.
Am.
Phil.
Soc.
vii 418.
Very stout 1 to 3 feet high  the lanceolate pinnatifid leaves densely whitetomentose beneath only hoarylanate or arachnoid above  heads 2 inches high or larger on long and stout peduncles  bracts of the involucre in very many series all linearsubulate ascending spinosetipped the spine straight all connected by a more or less heavy induraent of arachnoid very fine hairs  flowers deep red  segments of the corolla little surpassing the throat pappus short the very slender plumes naked at tip and scarcely dilated.
Abundant on sand dunes near the sea iu western California at San Francisco and southward to Santa Barbara and the outlying islands.
A remarkable and maritime species with which the next has needlessly been confused.
Carduuscaadidissimus.
Stout erect 2 or 3 feet high densely and permanently white arachnoidtomentose throughout leafoutline as in the last  heads few on shorter and stouter peduncles 2 inches high but narrower than in the last  outer bracts of the involucre with dilated and closely appressed base and squarrose rigid linearacerose spinescent tip all densely arachnoidtomentose  flowers crimson  pappus an inch long plumose almost throughout.
Common on dry hills in extreme northern California thence southward but in the interior only though coming out to the seaboard at Santa Barbara.
Keadily distinguished from C. occidentalis by its dense white tomentum and very different involucre and pappus.
Carduusvenustus.
Stoutish 3 feet high sparingly branching  lower leaves unknown  cauline few and reduced permanently more or less arachnoid white beneath  heads large 2 inches high and broad terminating long pedunculiform branches involucre glabrate the very numerous bracts with closely appressed base and long squamose rigid green lanceolate subulate and rather abruptly shortspinescent tips corollas bright crimson the segments longer than the throat  jappusplumes barbellate above the plumose part the tips scarcely dilated.
This belongs to the hills of the inner Coast Range of California from Vacaville southward.
It is our most beautiful thistle and appears to have been made a part of the aggregate Cnicus occidentalis in the Synoptical Flora of Gray though it is more strictly an ally of C. Californicuswhich is the C. lilacinus Greene Bull.
Calif. Acad ii 404  CarduusCalifornicus
Carduusundulatas Nutt. Gen. ii 130.
This very widely disseminated thistle of western North America is either excessively variable or else an aggregate embracing many species.
The original station for it as a specific type is  calcareous islands in Lake Huron and botanists of the middle sections of the Union would do well to collect again the type.
Its real characters cannot be made out from Nuttall's diagnosis except as compared with eastern species.
Gray's description does not pretend to define the plant of any one locality but is made loose enough to cover that vast aggregate of specimens which he had from all parts of the country between the Great Lakes and the Pacific and from Manitoba to Mexico.
Such a collection exhibits forms very distinct in general appearance and enough of them to make five or six fair geographical species without much character of flower or fruit though with good habitual marks and some vegetative characters.
The Lake Huron type was low and few flowered and had bifid spiny overlapping lobes to its leaves which were tomentose on both sides  a large subglobose involucre with appressed lanceolate acuminate bracts the spinescent tips of which are presumably spreading or reflexed.
The heads in all the western representatives of the aggregate are ovate rather than subglobose and have the spinescent tips of the scales as above described.
The pappus of the marginal flowers is only barbellate while in all the rest in the head it is plumose  but this it has in common with many other American species.
Some of our most striking western plants of this aggregate may be recognized under C. undulatus as follows  Var.
Douglasii.
Cirnum DouglasiiT.
C Prodr.
vi 643 1837.
Stout probably not tall  heads rather numerous not large shortpedunculate leaves white beneath and nearly so above with a close arachnoid tomentum deeply pinuatifid amplexicaul  heads about 1 inch high the ovate and ovatelanceolate bracts closely appressed with a glutinous spot below the shortspinescent tip  segments of the corolla shorter than the throat.
From Oregon to middle California in the wooded regions of the coast Range on rather open ground hillsides etc.
This is presumably the type of C. Douglasii and very wssibly of specific rank.
Var.
megacephalus Gray as Cnicus.
This has few and quite large heads and a very ample thin foliage not strongly spinescent.
It appears to be a tall plant and is from the interior of Washington and northern Idaho.
Mr. Leiberg's n. 654 is doubtless a good type of this.
It is also possible that this rather than the preceding may be the true Douglasii.
 Var.
Nevadensis.
Of middle height but widely and paniculately branching the small heads solitary or glomerate at the ends of the branches leaves green and glabrate above hoaryarachnoid beneath the lobes rigidly spiny  bracts of involucre closely appressed except the slenderspinose tips.
At the eastern base of the Sierra Nevada California near Truckee etc. collected by the writer in 1883.
CarduusMohavensis.
Stoutish branching 3 to 5 feet high whitish throughout with a minute and close tomentum  leaves of lanceolate outline narrow and with lobes not overlapping beai'ing few and rigid spines the middle cauline decurrent on the stem for onethird their length and all except the very lowest manifestly decurrent  heads few and terminal small roundovate  ovate involucral bracts somewhat arachnoid tipped with spreading spine of their own length or longer  segments of the reddish corolla as long as the throat  anther tips attenuatesubulate pappus of marginal achenes merely scabrous of the others only sparsely plumose and that near the base.
At Rabbit Springs in the Mohave Desert 1886 S. B Parish n. 1834 distributed as C. undulatus from which its conspicuously decurrent foliage and different pappus at once distinguish it.
CarduusRusbyi.
Probably very tall rather slender paniculate above with many small ovate heads  radical leaves longpetioled 1 to 2 feet long 4 inches wide siiiuatepinnatifid only sparingly and rather softly spinescent pale beneath with a thin tomentum glabrate above in texture quite thin  floral leaves very small each lobe and tooth bearing a stout long spine  ovate bracts of involucre appressed coriaceous tipped with a long stout spreading spine  flower apparently whitish  segments of the corolla little surpassing the throat  anthertips attenuate  outer achenes with scarcely barbellate bristles.
Southern Arizona 1883 Dr. H. H. Rusby.
Sjecies remarkable for the strong contrast between the soft and scarcely armed lower leaves and the excessively spiuose floral ones.
CarduusBernardinus.
Rather slender leafy below bearing at summit 1 to 3 long peduncled subglobose heads  leaves of linear or lanceolate outline sinuatetoothed or lobed and with few small spines equally whitetomentose above and beneath  heads an inch high and nearly as broad  ovateacuminate weakly spinescent involucral bracts rather closely appressed their margins distinctly ciliolate  reddish corollas with remarkably wide cylindrical throat and similarly wide linear and cuspidate segments of about equal length  anthertips with an abrupt long mucro  pappus brightwhite that of the marginal achenes barbellate of the others strongly plumose.
At an altitude of 4500 feet in Little Bear Valley of the San Bernardino Mountains southern California S. B. Parish 1884 n. 1686.
This was distributed as C. Californicus but the flowers cannot have been examined by Dr. Gray  or scarcely the involucral bracts.
It is a most excellent species.
The following species of the western United States and Mexico are in my herbarium without a nomenclature under Carduusand I here transfer them.
C. Americanus.
Cnicus Americanns Gray Syn.
Fl.
398.
Colorado to California.
C. Parryi Cnicus Parryi Gray Proc.
Am.
Acad x 47.
Colorado to Utah.
C. scopulorum.
Cirsiumeriocephaluni Gray Proc.
Acad.
Philad.
1863 p. 69 and Cnicus eriocephalus Gray Proc.
Am.
Acad. 1. c. Colorado to Montana.
C. edulis.
Cirsiumedulis Nutt. Trans.
Am.
Phil.
Soc.
vii 420.
Cnicus edulis Gray 1. c. Oregon and California.
C. NeoMexicanus.
CirsiumNeoMexicanutn Gray PI.
Wright ii 101 and Proc.
Am.
Acad x 10 under Cnicus.
New Mexico.
C. Andersonii.
Cnicus Andersonii Gray Proc.
Am.
Acad x 44.
Sierra Nevada of California C. Arizonicus.
Cnicus Arizonicus Gray 1. c. Arizona C. Rothrockii.
Cnicus Kothrockii Gray Proc.
Am.
Acad xvii 220 Arizona.
C. quercetorum.
Cnicus quercetorum Gray Proc.
Am.
Acad.
x.
40.
Coast Range hills in Western California.
C. fontinalis.
Cnicus fontinalis Greene Bull.
Calif. Acad ii 151.
Cr'Stal Springs San Mateo County California.
C. amplifolius.
Cnicus amplifolius Greene Pittonia i 70.
Coast Kauge California.
C. Grahami.
CirsiumGrahami Gray PI.
Wright ii 102 and Proc.
Am.
Acad s 42 under Cnicus.
Arizona.
C. ochrocentrus.
Cirsiumochrocentrum Gray PI.
Fendl.
110 and Proc.
Am.
Acad xix 57 under Cnicus.
Southern California to western Texas and Colorado.
C. Breweri.
Cnicus Breweri Gray Proc.
Am.
Acad x 43.
California and Oregon.
C. raphilepis.
Cnicus raphilepis Hemsl. Biol.
Centr.
Am.
Bot.
ii 252.
Southern Mexico.
C. acantholepis.
Cnicus acantholepis Hemsl. 1. c 251.
Mexico.
C. Mexicanus.
CirsiumMexicanum D. C Prodr.
vi 6.36.
Cnicus Mexicanus Hemsl. 1. c. Southern Mexico.
C. heterolepis.
Stout and tall 8 feet high parted above into long pedunculate and monocephalous branches  leaves a foot long sessile or shortpetioled pinnately parted into lanceolate spinose segments strigosepubescent above whitetomentose beneath  heads 2 J inches high bracts of involucre very unequal loosely imbricate the exterior and middle ones lanceolate and lanceolateacuminate pectinatespinulose and with straight spinose tip the inner 2 inches long linear thin and almost scarious throughout segments of the corolla about equalling the throat  all the pappusbristles plumose.
State of Jalisco Mexico 1889 C. G. Pringle n. 2435  distributed as a Cnicus with the specific name here continued  but I cannot find that any description was published.
C. linearifolius.
Cnicus ineariolius S.
Wats. Proc.
Am.
Acad xxvi 143.
Southern Mexico.
C. velatus.
Cnicus velatus S.
Wats. 1. c. Southern jIexico.
C. Pringlei.
Cnicus Pringlei S Wats. 1. c xxv 156.
State of Nuevo Leon Mexico.
C. excelsior.
Cnictis excelsior Rob. Proc.
Am.
Acad xxvii 179.
Slender and perhaps very tall  lower leaves unknown  cauline oblonglanceolate scarcely either lobed or toothed but more or less distinctly spinoseserrulate decurrent along the stem for at least a third their length whitetomentose beneath hoary above heads small clustered at the ends of slender paniculate branches bracts of involucre regularly and closely imbricated ovate viscid on the back below the slender spreading terminal spine corolla rosepurple the segments quite surpassing the anthers and style but much shorter than the tube  pappus sordid altogether plumose.
C. Potosinus.
 Near the last but stouter and perhaps taller  cauline leaves ampler deeply pinnatifid with sharply spinose lobes not in the least decurrent  flowers and fruit as in the last.
This species and the one preceding are in Mr. Pringle's Mexican collection of 1891 from the State of San Luis Potosi and are distributed in one sheet under the number 3768.
The printed ticket bears the statement that the plants grow in low lands and attain a height of from six to ten feet.
In C. excelsior the leaves appear as if joined to the stem for a third their length without any tapering from the point of junction  a character so remarkable that the two plants can in no wise be treated as one species.
2.

Three New Perennial Lupines.
Lupinus floribundus.
Stems tufted rather firmly erect sometimes decumbent at base a foot high or more with several ascending branches each ending in a well developed raceme  herbage more or less villous or hirsute  leaves all shortpetioled  leaflets about 7 an inch long or less oblonglanceolate acutish  racemes very shortped uncled dense and cylindrical 2 to 4 inches long scarcely f inch in diameter the flowers very small light blue  abruptly fiilcateincurved keel about equalling the wings and only 2 or 3 lines long the banner shorter  ovary densely hirsute.
A Avell marked and exceeding pretty lupine of the region of the middle and upper Bear Creek in the mountains of Colorado directly west of Denver growing in open woods among pines P. ponderosa  collected by the writer in 1873 1875 and again in 1889 and until recently supposed to be the L. parviflorus Nutt. to which however it can hardly be very closely related.
Lupinus gracilentus.
Stems tufted erect slender leafy 2 feet high  herbage green and not conspicuously pubescent scantily jjilose or villous under a lens  lowest leaves on slender peduncles 6 or 8 inches long and with narrow adnata longsetaceouspointed stipules  leaflets about 7 linearfalcate acute 2 inches long more or less  racemes terminal only and on long slender naked peduncles  flowers in 4 to 6 distinct verticils  calyxtube slightly gibbous at base  corolla rather small 4 or 5 lines long blue  keel strongly falcateacuminate naked slightly surpassing the wings these longer than the banner ovary hirsute immature pods appressedvillous.
In the Tuolumme Canon of the Sierra Nevada California 1889 Messrs Chesnut and Drew.
Lupinus Covillei.
Erect stoutish 2 or 3 feet high the striate stems leafy up to the subsessile long raceme herbage rather light green soft to the touch with a hirsute pubescence  petioles about equalling the leaflets these about 9 linearlanceolate 1 to 2 inches long racemes elongated the flowers in distinct verticils  bracts fully equalling the flowers linearfiliform somewhat persistent calyx and pedicels densely hirsute as also the young pods  corolla purple h inch long the banner slightly shorter than the wings  keel not strongly falcate naked or with a few hirsute hairs below the tip.
Near Farwell Gap in the Sierra Nevada of California at an altitude of 10000 feet August 30 1891 Messrs. Coville and Funston n. 1746.
The species is also in the State Survey collection from the same region and was evidently mistaken for the far northern and very different L. lepidus CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE LIFE HISTORIES OF PLANTS NO.
8. by thomas meehan.
Euphrasia ofe'icinalis.
Mr. Darwin in his interesting work on Cross and Selffertilization of Flowers 1877 places this pretty little plant in the list of those which have  become modified so as to insure selffertilization.
Some additional information on the subject makes it Yorth while to go over the whole matter again.
The flowers are so abundantly fertile that one would at once infer that it is selffertilized but the apparently strong proterogynous character of the flower leads to a suspicion that this impression is wrong.
The curved style is projected beyondthecoroUabeforethelatterisfully expanded appearing like a folded thread of silk completely closing the mouth.
The stigma at the end of the incurved portion is bent down onto or under the anthers which present it with pollen before the flower has fully expanded.
So early is the flower fertilized that the pistil having fulfilled its function dies away almost immediately after the mouth of the corolla fully expands.
The flower presents the remarkable phenomenon of a pistil dried up almost as soon as the corolla is fully open.
It seems evident that the pistil matures long before the stamens but the curvature of the style keeps the stigma in contact with the stamens so that it cannot escape fertilization.
If the pistil were projected in a straight line as is usual in flowers it is more than likely that aid would be required in securing pollination.
It does look as if the expression quoted from Darwin that the flower had been modified to ensure selffertilization is in this instance literally correct.
Notes on Gaura and Oenothera.
Although in a general way flowers of some species of Gaura and allied genera are known to open toward evening and with some suddenness so far as I know no details of the phenomenon have been recorded.
Having plants of Gaura biennis and of G. parviflora within a hundred feet of each other under nearlv the same conditions I spent a week previous to the 20th of August in closely watching them with the view of noting any difference in the behavior of the two closely allied species.
Having come to look on those plants that are abundantly fruitful as selffertilizers I was at first struck with the exceptional fruitfulness of every flower in Gaura parvifiora.
On one spike examined 148 flowers had bloomed and each had produced a perfect capsule.
Many more flowerbuds had yet to open.
The result of the observations showed that the plant is absolutely a selffertilizer.
On every night of my observations the first blossoms commenced to open at 7.15 o'clock and by 7.30 all had opened that would open on that evening.
The expansion is so extremely sudden that it is only with great difficulty that the process can be observed.
The eye can be taken for an instant from one flower to another alongside and instantly back again only to find that expansion has occurred.
A good magnifier is necessary to see the process distinctly.
On expansion the petals stop wdien at a right angle with the axis but the sepals fly completely back on a line with the ovarium.
Opening some flowers at 7 o'clock no pollen is visible but the anther cells are ruptured and abundantly pollencovered at expansion.
We may conclude that this act is simultaneous with the opening.
The anthers .
are held to the stigma by the gelatinous pollen except an occasional one that is held fast by the expanding petal or sepal and drawn over which also shows that the anther cells rupture at the time of expansion or a little before.
As evening progresses the stamens draw their anthers more or less away from the stigmas but they alone can fertilize the pistils.
By a lamp later in the evening small night moths are found about the flowers and some moth hairs on many of the glutinous stigmas show that the flowers have been visited by them.
The flowers commence to fade at daylight the stamens dropping first then the pistil and by 8 A. M. the petals wither unless the day be cloudy when they continue a little longer.
The upper portion of the leaves of this species are vertical the result apparently of a continuation of the coiling tendency longer than in some other plants and w'ithout any jhysiological significance.
Gaura biennis.
 In this species some open at 8 P. M.  all are open at 8.30 P. M. that are to expand that evening.
They open by jerks.
First there is a sudden flying apart of the sepals just enough to show the pinkishwhite petals the openings being not more than two lines in width.
After about three minutes another efibrt occurs when both the sepals and petals are at right angles with the axis.
After another rest of about three minutes the sepals fall back on the ovarium.
An effort was made to encourage a flower to open earlier in the evening by separating the sepals with a penkuife but it had no effect ou the opening of the flower till the regular opening time arrived.
The stamens are shorter than the style so that at expansion the anthers are below the stigna.
The pistil remains erect and the stamens fall without the pollen coming in contact with the stigma as far as I could trace.
The pistils droop by morning when the under surface of the compound stigma is usually found covered with pollen as if it had dropped from the anthers.
A large number of species of night moths attend the flowers during the night and most of the flowers have moth hair on the stigmas.
It seemed probable that insect aid had much to do with pollinating the flowers.
The lower portions of the spikes are infertile and this adds suspicion that insects are necessary to aid in the work of fertilization as they may not have been present or found the Gaura plants till many flowers had fallen but nearly all the later flowers are fertile.
Soon after daylight the stamens and style have withered but the petals do not collapse till 8 or 9 o'clock and if the day be cloudy .
the petals will continue apparently fresh till noon.
Aside from fixing the exact time and manner of the opening of the flowers of these two species there is a peculiar interest in the fact that while the one is undoubtedly a strict selffertilizer its near neighbor seems to be in a great measure dependent on insect agency and this remarkable difference is apparently due merely to the fact that in comparison with the pistil the stamens are a little longer in the one species than in the other.
CEnoihera biennis.
 I endeavored to ascertain the exact time and manner of the opening of the flowers of Oenothera biennis but could not manage to catch it at the right moment.
An interesting fact well worth recording however is that the anther cells burst when the bud is comparatively young long before expansion covering the stigma with the flower's own gelatinous pollen.
The stigma is not receptive at this time but the pollen remains until it is thus insuring selffertilization.
The Carpellary Structure op Nympha.
An abnormal flower of Nymphcea odorata from 'New Jersey sent to me by Mrs. Edward S. Sayres of Philadelphia indicatesthemanner in which the carpels are formed.
The place of the usual radiating stigmas was occupied by three petaloid processes very suggestive of the pistils of an Iris.
These were recurved as in the annexed diagram U which shows a cross section of the three.
From this it would appear that the ovarium is made up of a number of carpellary 1. leaves of which the midribs form the axis.
In the normal flower the compound ovarv is usuallv from 12to 24celled according to Gray's Genera in this case but three Transverse section oftaioid carpels wcre attempted.
In this genus the carpels replacing the normal gyn  .
.  n  xcmm mNymphceaodoyuia lue bctwecn the various floral organs is very finely drawn.
Petals stamens aud the carpellary system with its pistils run closely into each other.
Hence the numbers in each class of organs easily vary.
It would not be wholly unexpected to meet with cases in this or allied genera where the flowers would have the pistils wholly aborted  that is the plants might produce wholly staminate flowers.
On the Sexual Characters of Rhus.
Exact botany suffers much from the want of care in the application of terms especially illustrated in the use of the words hermaphrodite dioecious polygamous and jwlygamodioecious by different authors in connection with the genus Rhus.
There is a section described as hermaphrodite in which the mist tree of gardens Rhus cotinoides is placed.
But I have shown that this species is truly dioecious. Chapman in his  Flora of the Southern United States divides the North American sjiecies into two sections one  Flowers polygamous the other  Flowers ditiecious.
He jlaces Rhus copalUna in the former section leaving the dioecious section to the poison Rhus R.
venenata. and R. Toxicodendron.
Don in the  Gardener's Dictionary places Rhus copallina in the dioecious section with the poison vines of Chapman while Dr. Darlington in  Flora Cestrica styles all the species  polygamodioecious.
As these terms are employed in the sectional characters their use is perplexing to the student.
After a careful examination extending over some years I have found no case in which an isolated plant jroduces seeds.
The plants are all truly dioecious and the terms hermaphrodite and polygamous applied to any Rhus are misleading and should be abandoned.
Often isolated plants will be found in which the car Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science Vol.
XXII pp.
7375.
25 pels appear perfect but are hollow by reason of not having been fertilized.
In some flowers the stamens appear antheriferous and this fact has probably led to the belief in hermaphroditism but I have never found one to be polliniferous.
Close inspection this season of some twentyfour plants of Bhus copallina led to observations of a novel character worth recording.
There were twentytwo female and only two male plants.
There are three pistils in the female flower.
One of these is larger and deeper colored than the other two.
These two finally abort only a single carpel reaches perfection.
The brown papery anthers are devoid of pollen and have either no filaments or very short ones.
Between the staminate cycla and that forming the gynoecium are glands seemingly an undeveloped series of stamens.
These exude a great abundance of sweet liquid which attracts honeybees and other insects in large numbers.
I have counted twenty honeybees at work at once on a single panicle many of them falling victims to the soldier beetle Reduvius novenarius which finds the Rhus a fertile hunting ground.
The male flower is especially distinct from the female in having no honey glands.
The highly polliniferous anthers are on five long exserted filaments.
These filaments are erect and the anthers approach forming a sort of crown as if to protect the pistils which are in a depauperate condition beneath.
The profusion of golden pollen is very conspicuous in these male flowers.
In the female flowers the sepals are ovate and spreading while in the males they are lancelinear and recurved.
The rachis and pedicels are more slender and longer than in the female.
Considering the abundance of pollen it would seem almost certain that at some time or other pollengathering bees would visit the male flowers but whenever I saw them at work it was only on the female plants.
The abundance of liquid from the floral glands seemed an inducement to greater exertion and watching these creatures on Rhun copallina gave me for the first time the impression that there were times when these ever industrious creatures make special effort.
The subject of the relation of insects to flowers naturally thrust itself on my attention during these observations.
Sweet secretions in these flowers certainly can have no significance as a means of insect attraction for the purposes of crossfertilization or of fertilization of any character.
Insects seem to serve no object of the plant in any direction whatever while the female plant has to depend on the wind for its fertilizing material.
The sap between the bark and the wood both in this and in other species of liJtii is very sweet and particularly abundant and on the slightest scratch courses down the branches  in gathering it insects almost fight each other.
The little exuding through the glands seems the result of an effort to get rid of a superabundance and without any special significance in the economy of the plant.
RUBUS CHAMMORUS.
Authors have variously characterized this plant.
Thus Don 1832 notes it as dicecious Beck 1833 monoecious while Michaux 1803 and Torrey 1826 leave the inference that it is hermaphrodite.
Lightfoot in Flora Scotica 1787 says This plant is dioecious above ground but according to a curious observation made by Dr. Solander the roots of the male and the female unite together under the earth so as to render the plant truly monoecious.
Dr. Gray 1867 regards the plant as dicecious.
It did not matter so much in the past generation about special accuracy in these particulars but in more recent times when these questions enter largely into botanical philosophy more accurate diagnoses are desirable.
Specimens brought to me by botanical friends at Seal Harbor Maine show the plant to run extensively by underground stolons one flowering branch with dried flowers producing no fruit and another with berries from the same stolon indicated that Solander was right in giving it a monoecious character without however the necessity of calling in underground grafting to account for the phenomena.
The male canes appear to have been longer than the fruitbearing ones.
Dr. Gray in the sixth edition of the  Manual makes a subsection in which this species is placed the flowers having a 5lobed calyx.
In all the specimens brought me each had but four lobes.
Residents of Mt.
Desert Island call the fruit  baked apple berries.
Dalibarda repens.
No author gives the slightest hint of any irregularities in the flowers of Dalibarda repens though its relative on the one side Rubns has a monoecious representative in R. chamceniorus and on the other side in Fragaria chilensis and often in F. virginiana.
Confined to my room at Seal Harbor Maine in August of the present year by temporary illness good botanical friends and especially Mr. John H. Redfield brought me generously large amounts of fresh jjlauts their daily collections.
One of these which I had no subsequent opjiortunity to see growing was Dalibarda repens.
My observations are therefore wholly from these few plants though the facts have been subsequently confirmed by Mr. Redfield. The single flower on the four to five inch scape was found wholly staminate the stamens being very numerous.
The scape branched at the base having what we might term a pedicel of an inch or so in length recurving and bearing small cleistogene buds.
These were found to contain but five short stamens and the anthers polliniferous pressed down on the stigmas.
These budbearing jjedicels grew into the rotten leaves beneath the foliage and matured the seed vessels beneath the surface just as many violets do bringing to mind that Michaux''s name of D. violceoides was still more expressive than even that author supposed.
As many of these subterranean seed vessels were ripe it shows that cleistogamy commences quite early in the season how early has yet to be ascertained.
The eai'liest ones it Avould seem must have the flower on the 5inch scape perfect as the descriptions given by authors no doubt were drawn from these and are given as with all the floral organs perfect.
My rough notes made on the spot say  the female or fertile flowers with becoming modesty withdraw into privacy beneath the ground while the foppish male flowers seem to have no office in life to perform but to make a show of themselves.
It may be remarked here that in many cases of plants bearing cleistogene and fertile flowers they at some time produce what are regarded as normally perfect flowers and these are supposed to be for the purpose of enabling the jlant to get a chance to bear crossfertilized seed.
But so many of these are wholly infertile while this Dalibarda is absolutely masculine that it would seem that the fact may be capable of some other explanation.
On Some Morphological Distinctions in the Genera of Ericace.e.
The suborders of Ericacete divide naturally into the free or the adherent calyx with the ovary but an examination of various members of the order indicates a suppression or multiplication of series  As these pages are going to press Mr. Fedfield notes that Dr. Gray has recorded the finding of Dalibarda repens cleistogene by Mr. Pringle.
of organs and the impressment of one set into the service of another to such a degree that the morphologist will find little in an original type to divide into sections.
Monotropa wi'ora represents a section where the calyx is free from the ovary.
The ovarium is described as being 10grooved but it is evident that this grooving is the result of ten staminal scales which have become adherent with the ovarium.
To describe the flower properly we might begin with the 5carpellate ovary.
Though the ' stigma  is usually described as being single and funnelform it would seem that a strictly correct form of expression from the morphological standpoint would be that there were five stigmas united by a thin membrane into a circular weblike disk.
In the flowers before me there are ten stamens but these are certainly in two series of five each one set rather larger than the other.
The upper and larger series alternate with five of the scales and press the anthers close up under the fine stigmatic portions on the edge of the disk and in this way effectually secure selffertilization.
The next series of five are shorter and always keep the anthers free from connection with the stigmas.
Both series of stamens however have the hairy filaments curved in toward the ovarium as if they also would have become adherent scales if they had had a fair chance.
At the base of the ten stamens and alternate with them are ten hornlike processes evidently each alternate one being slightly smaller than the other representinw two series which we may term either abortive stamens or abortive petals as suits best the morphological view.
These however curve outward and downwai'd instead of inward and should possiblv be classed with the corolliferous rather than the staminal system which as above noted possesses an incurved tendency.
From the apex of these glands however a large quantity of sweet liquid exudes and they might be termed  nectaries if there were any separate place for such organs in the morphological type.
There are five petals and it is singular that three of these seem always to be twisted folding over each other from right to left while one petal is usually backed by the two adjoining imbricate plates the edges of these almost meeting behind the petal which they enclose.
Outside of these we have the remains of five sepals varying so much in size that occasionally but two can be recognized.
It will be seen that this conception as fortified by observation makes the flower far less of a departure from the usual types of Ericaceje and places the genus more in harmony with its fellows.
Comparing the points here made with specimens of Gaylussacia dumosa before me the stigma may be seen to be discshaped as in Ptjrola with however ten stigmatic points on the margin of the disc indicating a 10carpellary structure.
The ten flat anthers press closely against the style and can be safely taken as the analogues of the ten adherent scales through which the pistil seems to protrude in Monotropa.
Taking up now Pyrola rotundifolia we find in the earlier stages such a wheelshaped disc in the stigma as may be seen in Monotropa but with age they advance beyond the membranous connective and thus give us the  5rayed stigma  of authors.
If we now take up Monees xmiflora the  ten stamens are found to be in series.
Two of these series consist of three stamens each two series of but a single stamen each but occasionally there are two stamens in each of the latter sets which make the full complement of ten and we see here the tendency to a suppression of parts is very strong.
The whole lesson teaches the morphological unity of type in the sections of Ericaceae to a greater degree than usually supposed and that the cohesion or freedom from cohesion of the various cycles comprising the theoretical foliar system is the chief governing influence in the formation of genera in the order.
Vitality of Seeds.
Lysimachia atropurpurea.
That seeds will live long in the earth in many cases is a general belief but too frequently the facts presented are open to objection.
Diiect and incontestible evidence is still desirable.
I am accustomed to sow seeds for the purpose of botanical examination and for specimens.
In 1886 I had a few plants from seeds of the European annual Lysimachia atropurpurea.
After a study of the plant no further seeds were collected.
In the winter following this part of my garden was given up to building operations and the earth filled in several feet in depth over where the Lysimachia grew and on this large evergreens were planted.
Last spring one of these evergreens was removed and a hole left nearly two feet deep.
In the bottom of this hole a Lysimachia plant came up this summer.
There can be no other explanation than that the seeds had been there six years as no Lysimachia has been growing in my garden since.
For some days prior to August 22 I took the plant under close examination from day to day.
That plants do not grow contiuuously but advance from stage to stage by leaps  making considerable rests between the stages  is well illustrated by the flowers of this plant.
After the flower bud has reached a stage ready fof expansion it rests for a day but the style continues to grow and pushes through the closed flower bud to the extent of about two lines.
Then it rests and the corolla opens and assumes an erect campanulate form.
The stamens grow as the petals lengthen but continue growing for a day after the corolla is at rest continuing till they exceed the style the anthers forming a close circle just above the stigma when they discharge their pollen over it.
As every flower is fertile and the plant produces seeds profusely I surmised that the flowers must selfpollinate but the advance of the pistil with its evidently receptive stigma so long before the maturity of the anthers seemed theoretically against this view In a large area of these flowers where some plants in bloom would matui'e in advance of the others insects might convey the gelatinous pollen to the exposed pistils on other plants.
In this one specimen however there were no insect visitors observed except an occasional sand wasp and the effect was only to help the stigma to its own pollen.
This plant was certainly selffertile though the conditions seem to be such that it might be crossfertilized under favorable circumstances.
Campanula rotundifolia.
A large branch of specimens placed in water for a week presented some remarkable variations.
The lobes in most instances were about onefourth the depth of the campanulate corolla in some instances onethird.
In one case the corollas on the stem were cut to fully onehalf their length and the lobes spread so that with a little more efibrt the corollas would have been rotate 
The flowers of this species of Campanula are centrifugal the terminal one opening first.
A number of these terminal flowers were 10lobed with ten stamens still more with six lobes and six stamens but the majority were normal with five lobes and five stamens.
In one flower with five lobes the five stamens had been transformed to petals and it is worthy of note that these five were separate and not united into a monopetalous corolla similar to the outer series.
On the same stalk another flower had two of the stamens somewhat petaloid instead of antheriferous.
Two other flowers on the same stalk were normal.
Although the flowers of Campanula rotundifoUa are classed as proterandrous the pollen is not ejected from the anther cells till after the corolla has opened and the hairy pistil has been developed considerably beyond the line of the anthers though most of the genus seem to discharge their pollen while still in the bud.
The stamens wither soon after the anthers have discharged their pollen.
In the flowers in this large branch the stigmas do not exjand till the fourth day after flowering.
In the quiet atmosphere of the room and in the absence of all insects that are usually considered aids in fertilization there seems to be no pollen on the stigmatic surfaces but capsules are all enlarging and the young seeds swelling as if the fertilization of the flowers had been perfected.
It is difficult to believe that in some manner fertilization has not taken place.
Only the full ripening of the seed could positively prove this point.
Unfortunately I had not the opportunity to test it.
The variation of the color in the flowers of this branch may be noted.
During the week that I had them under observation there may have been between two and three hundred flowers.
Some were nearly white others of a rosy purple the majority blue.
The observations were concluded on the 15th of July.
CORNUS CANADENSIS.
Some of the exotic species of Contxs are dioecious but there is no record of dioecism in any of the American species.
The plant is very common on Mt.
Desert Island.
Near Northeast Harbor I spent several hours July 27th examining these plants particularly amongst other things and would frequently find large patches that were evidently the production of several years by underground stolons entirely barren.
Other patches would have a single berry in the central portion of the cyme and all the others barren.
Other patches were abundantly prolific.
It is a safe inference that some plants are monoecious and others wholly dioecious.
As it is well understood the leaves are really in opposite pairs the verticil being formed by the suppression of the internodes and axillary bud..
One specimen was found in wliich two axillary buds had produced branches and these two again produced each two more from their apices.
These four branches were terminated by four heads of flowers each with its four milkwhite bracts which in the midst of so many companion plants with numerous red berries had a unique effect.
As in the great dogwood Corinis florida some of the bracts are shaded from iightrose to deep pink as appeared from some belated flowering plants.
The socalled bracts of these species of Conuts as I have noted elsewhere are not true bracts but merely simulate them.
They are flower bud scales which have taken on renewed growth carrying along the earlier formation which during the winter acted as a bud scale and which in the spring season gives the dark obtuse aiex to the  bract.
Aralia hispida.
An interesting feature in many plants is that while the inflorescence as a whole may be centripetal the flowers themselves are centrifugal.
Aralia hispida is a good illustration.
While the terminal umbel is the first to flower the flowers themselves in each umbel are centrifugal.
Of special interest in this species is the fact that while all the male flowers have but five stamens fully onefourth of the female flowers have six carpels.
LUZULA CAMPESTRIS.
The appendages at the base of the seeds in some species of Lizula are well known.
It occurred to me to endeavor to ascertain their special function.
No theoretical conception as to their function or place in the economy of plant life could be satisfactorily formed.
A novel point seemed to be that long after the flower stalk had become dry and the valves of the capsules expanded the seeds were held in place by the appendage hanging loosely from side to side as the capsule might be turned about.
While so many plants have arrangements for projecting seeds from the capsules it seemed remarkable that this should be specialized to retain them.
CaKILE AMERICANA.
The flowers being unexceptionally fertile led me to infer that they were selfpollinate.
Examining a large number at Atlantic City in the middle of June I found this to be the case.
The anthers press aoainst the stigma and cover it with their own pollen before the bud expands.
A remarkable feature in the Atlantic City flowers is the comparatively small size of the petals and in a large number of flowers only a single pair of etals are produced the flowers losing in these cases their cruciferous form.
At Seal Harbor Maine J a month later no bipetalous flowers were noticed but the same fertilization in the unexpanded flower occurred.
The Maine jlauts have a more zigzag habit of growth and the leaves are more dentate in many cases pinnatifid than in the Atlantic City plants.
Hypericum ellipticum.
Generic characters like those of species are often found running so close together that it is difiicult to draw a dividing line.
No one would question the propriety of separating Ascyrum and Hypericum  Ascijrum sepals four very unequal  Hijpericum  sepals five somewhat equal.
In this species there are really but four sepals but a minute bract does duty as a fifth sepal.
The sepals are almost as unequal as those of any species of Acurum could be.
Teifolium hybridum.
So much has been said of the relations between insects and the flowers of clover that more would seem superfluous but of Trifolium hybridnm the Alsike or Swedish clover few observations have been specially recorded.
Of late years this species has become common on Mt.
Desert Island at least it is very common about Seal Harbor where the unusual beauty and fragrance of the flowers press it closely on our attention.
Observing that every flower seemed fertile I anticipated selffertilization and found that this was the case.
In the unopened bud just before the expansion of the petals the stamens and pistils are of equal length.
The anthers press closely against the stigmatic surface of the pistil and discharge the pollen therein before the flower opens.
After expansion the flattened keel presses and keejis pressed together the stamens and pistil preventing any exposure at any time.
The stamens and pistil remain thus entombed through life dying eventually in each other's arms.
If an insect or the thumb nail be pressed against the base of the keel the pistil and stamens are set free but only to expose the pollencovered stigma.
Many species of plants have their stamens and pistils so arranged that tliough close fertilization is the rule the use of foreign pollen is not an absolute impossibility though when we consider how few seeds of a crop ever get a chance to grow again the physiological value of an occasional cross on a seed Avhich has small chance of ever growing is not apparent.
But even this chance is lost to this species of clover as found growing here in July for the abundant fertility is certainly due to selfpollination and crossfertilization is wholly out of the question.
Bees do not seem abundant in this locality.
Only a small species of bumblebee was observed at any time and none visiting these clover flowers.
Lathyrus maritimus.
I have pointed out in previous contributions that when leafgrowth is arrested to form budscales sepals or petals the laminal portion or blade usually becomes effete and it is usually the stipular portions or dilated bases of the leaves that are transformed to do the protective work.
In Lathyriis maritimus this is particularly obvious the large stipules being fully formed and acting as protectors of the young buds even before the rest of the leafblade is developed.
If no leafblade proper were produced at all and the axial growth arrested these stipules would be reduced and then properly be termed bud scales.
Many species of Lathyrus are on record as being selffertilizers.
No note seems to have been made of L. maritimus.
At Seal Harbor every flower seemed fertile indicating selffertilization.
Unless the flowers are disturbed the stamens and pistil remain to the last wholly enclosed by the keel.
When however a visiting insect presses the keel downward the upjer portion of the style projects considerably beyond the ajex of the keel but the stamens remain wholly included.
An insect in search of honey covered with pollen beneath might then easily crossfertilize the flowers but as the anthers seem never exposed in these flowers so far as I could ascertain there is no pollen collected by the bee for transmission to another flower.
A peculiarity of this species seems to be that the vexillum presses down and clasps the keel in the earlier stages of anthesis preventing the ingress of insects and it is only in the later stages after selffertilization has been fully accomplished that the vexillum becomes erect and the entrance of insects permitted.
This species will have to be classed with those already admitted to be absolutely selffertile.
LONICERA CCERULEA It is many years since I handed to our good friend Professor Asa Gray some evidence as I supposed questioning the soundness of the belief that leaf blade has its primary origin at the node from which it seems to spring.
The sententious reply I shall never forget nevertheless I maintain that decurrence is decurrence.
For all the overshadowing eminence of this great and good man facts continually come before me that seem inexplicable under the accepted hypothesis.
It seems to me that the origin of leafblade must be at some indefiuite place below the point of departure from the axis and that decurrence is simply the effect of an irregular meeting of the edges of the clasping leaves.
In the case of plants which have the young branches square or flatstemmed but round in their after stages it would seem that the only way of accounting for it is by conceiving the union of the edges of the blades as they clasp the stem.
An examination of some specimens of Lonicera cceniea brought me at Seal Harbor by Mr. Redlield July 22nd clearly demonstrated that this was the case.
The growth of the present year is squarestemmed.
In cutting the stems across midway between the nodes the costa of superposing leaf is clearly seen.
The scales at the termination of the season's growth suggest this behavior also.
They are boatshaped evidently formed from a theoretically dilated base and meet by their edges.
Later on incipient leafblades may be seen starting from their terminal points.
That with a little modification these scales could have been elongated become united at the edges closely clasp the real bark and then by the formation of leafblade diverge a't the node seems so plausible that there is little doubt that this has been the process during the vigorous growing season.
I have shown elsewhere that the rifting of bark is not a mechanical operation due to the growth expansion of the stem but that provision is made in true bark for this rifting by the formation of suber cells which develoj after a certain number of years have elapsed and which disintegrate the bark and thus permit the expansion of the wood beneath.
Every ligneous plant has.
by a specific growth of these suber cells its own special manner of providing for the opening of its bark.
In Lonicera coerulea and similar plants with square stems or decurrent leaves on the young growth there are none of the suber cells on the external epiderm which truly formed bark should have.
In the specimens brought me the square  or external layer had not been thrown ofi'' and by a little help from the knife I was able to detach the whole from a branched specimen just as if it had been a paper mask.
This epiderm having no cork cells has to burst by drying or by the expansion of the woody axis and the rupture is down the weakest line of union namely where I have conceived the hypothetical union of the edges to have been.
The square stem is then changed to a round one the epiderm of Avhich is strewn with minute ovoid nests of cork cells.
From the well ascertained focts as to the manner of bark formation the outer epiderni could not possibly have been formed in the same manner as the hypoderm namely by the differentiation of the horizontal cells but ould only have originated from an independent exogenous growth such as a supposititious enclosure by a clasping leafblade could produce.
Aside from these considerations the continuity of the nerves in this intranodal sheath Avith the nerves of the leafblade indicated clearly shows the identity of their origin.
It may be said in brief that while plants generally in their first year's growth have only two separate systems  wood and a single layer of bark  a section of Lonicera cceruea and plants constructed on a similar plan have three the outer layer of which by the absence of suber cells and other characteristics clearly is not true bark.
There seems to me little doubt but squarestemmed annual growths or the appearance of decurrence on growing stems is due to the fact that the leaves have really originated below the point from which they seem to emerge and that the angularity or decurrence is due to the more or less imperfect meeting of the edges of these leaves when clasping the stem.
Raphanus sativus.
The garden radish is admittedly selffertile but noting on the 14th of August an unusually large number of the cabbage butterfly Pieris rapce as well as several other Lepidoptera about them I was led to make an extended observation with some novel results.
There were a large number of plants in the row under observation and the remarkable difference in fertility in the different plants first attracted my attention.
In some cases possibly threefourths of the flowers had produced seed vessels in others about half while some plants had only a few scattered pods.
As the plants were still flowering freely good opportunity yas afforded to see how far sexual conditions misht influence these several characteristics.
There were found some remarkable morphological peculiarities worth noting.
In one flower one of the basal glands had developed to a perfect pistil which was half the length of the normal one 
As there have been different views of the nature of these glands may we not regard them as undeveloped axillary buds 
In this flower instead of four long and two short the whole six stamens were of equal length.
Another flower had but three long stamens and these a little longer than the pistil at this stage of blossoming.
Of course in this as in many cruciferis the capsule elongates after petals and stamens fall.
The two short stamens were normal.
Another flower in addition to the normal six stamens had two of the petals antheriferous.
There was but a very slight attempt at petal bearing.
It is worthy of note that the insertionof these antheriferous petals was much more nearly opposite the glands than usual indicating that a disturbance of the spiral growth coexisted with the abnormal condition of the petals.
Three flowers had a third gland.
In one flower the third gland was only half the size but in other respects similar to the others  in the other two the extra glands were long and hornlike as if they were partially developed pistils.
Another flower had three long and three short stamens.
Two flowers were found with three series of stamens each series of two of different length.
In these the upper pair curved inward touching the stigma by the upper portion the anthers however recurving from the pistil.
A flower with four glands was another surprise.
One of the two normal ones was unusually large and 5lobed at the apex.
The two extra glands are between the shorter pair of filaments.
Another had the four long filaments colored like the petals while the filaments of the two short were white and transparent.
It is well to note that while the insertion of the short stamens is always under the normal glands the extra glands are between the pairs indicating that they belong to a distinct cycle from the other two.
Examining the flowerbud while comparatively young a unicellular transparent hair is found at the apex of each sepal which is early deciduous leaving a bulblike base which might easily become a  gland  under some morphological change.
The upper portions of the filaments connive and might without close examination be regarded a united.
It may be noted that on the opening of the flower the lower portion of the sepals separate first leaving the upper portions to connive to the last.
In some flowers the sepals remain united to the last and are monosepalous.
In a number of plants which had only a few seed pods on them the anthers were evidently barren.
These plants have had these few fertile flowers pollenized by insects.
In other plants the four long stamens would be barren while the two short stamens would have abundant pollen.
The conclusion left on the mind of the observer was that some plants of the radish were arranged for selffertilization and others required the intervention of insects but that this socalled  arrangement  was brought about through various phases of nutrition affecting the growth of different portions of the plant and in which special arrangements for fertilization had no primaiy place.
On the Nature of the Verruca in Some Convolvulace.
The stems of some Convolvulaceie notably the one in common cultivation as  Moonflower   Calomjction speciosum Choisy Ipomcea Bona nox Linnaeus are verrucose.
No explanation of the nature or functions of these warty processes has ever been given so far as the knowledge of the writer extends.
Horticulturists who have given any thought to the matter have regarded them in the light of attempts at root formation or as somew'hat akin to the rootlets along the branches of ivy  but these have been only passing impressions.
A critical examination however shows that they have no central system as true rootlets have nor have they a rootcap as we find on genuine fibres.
It occurred to me to note the behavior of Cuscuta when growing where it could not readily find a host plant.
It produces haustoria ready to fasten on its victim when the opportunity might offer.
The structure of these processes and those of Calomjction seem identical.
As it must be conceded that Cuscuta is a genus of degenerate Convolvulacere or rather a genus of plants that has come in the course of ages to be able to live on other plants it does not seem improbable that these seeming excrescences on the Calonyction may' be incipient haustoria and that in the future other Convolvulaceffi besides Cuscuta may become parasitic.
It must be said however that in many examinations I have made where these supposititious haustoria have been brought into close contact with other growing vegetation to such an extent in some instances as not to afford room for the usual longitudinal development the excrescences have become flattened rather than make any attempt to penetrate the tissue of the approximating plant.
This however may not militate against the supposition that these warty excrescences are incipient haustoria unless the proposition that in plants environment or more properly perhaps environment to a great extent is the leading factor in the evolution of characteristic forms.
Such a proposition to my mind implies that the change in form should be responsive at once to the force that induced it.
One can scarcely imagine a change in form to occur in a plant responsive to irritation received from external causes by its ancestors hundreds perhajs thousands of generations previous.
But if we take the succession of forms we know to have occurred and know to have been evolved from closely related forms as following in obedience to some law of growth as yet hidden from us we can have no difficulty in suspecting that when the fulness of time shall arrive these analogues of haustoria will have full parasitic functions.
Polygonum cilinode.
In a few instances by no means common I found July 12th at Seal Harbor Mt.
Desert Island branches of Polygonum cilinode which instead of being climbing were sarraentose and bending over had rooted at the tip and formed a large terminal bud as we find in some species of Rubus.
Many were found of a sarmentose or trailing habit with no disposition to climb though the facilities for climbing were within reach.
In among the ramifications of the roots of these rooting tips were numerous cleistogene flowers perfecting sometimes wholly underground.
The flowers in the climbing branches are of two kinds as I have noted in other Polygonums one always closed and fertile the other open apparently perfect in all respects but barren.
The inflorescence is formed of continuously branching axillary buds and the only check to a further continuance of growth seems to be exhaustion.
The growth ends with depauperate buds.
The species is evidently on the border line evolutionarily speaking between the merely upright and the climbing species.
Aster tatarica.
This Asiatic species exhibits in its inflorescence a curious mixture of characters separate in other species.
The upper portion of the panicle is corymbose and comprises about a dozen floAvers which are centripetal the central flower opening first.
The flowers are quite gay with their numerous violetcolored rays.
The lower flowers on the outer branches of the corymb are however rayless below this corymb is a conical panicle of a foot or more in length.
The lower branches of this panicle extend six inches or more and these lateral branches gradually shorten till they are scarcely an inch long.
These branches are all centripetal in their growth from the central axis but the flowers are centrifugal.
In all the upper flowers 1892.
385 tliose on the shorter branches of the panicle are discoid as are the lateral ones on the branchlets.
The explanation seems to involve the question of rhythmic growth.
Rest had been nearly reached at the point represented by the apex of the cone when the new flow of growth resulted in the terminal corymb.
To form the centripetal character of the inflorescence the axillary buds remain at rest until the branch has reached its final length 26 when the growth wave returns starting each bud again to development in this reflex action.
As it is the lower and more slender pedicelled flowers which are discoid nutrition has evidently determined the absence of rays but whether this point was decided during the upward or the reflex movement of the growthwave could not be determined though the former seems the most probable.
The annexed figure from the dried specimen on the table shows the conical growth of the panicle almost to a rest and the subsequent resumption of active growth to form the terminal corymb.
