THE Batrachia AND REPTILIA OF NORTH WESTERN TEXAS.
BY E. D. COPE.
The present paper is based on collections made along the eastern border of the Staked Plain of Texas between Big Spring on the Texas Pacific R. R. on the south and the Salt Fork of the Red River near Clarendon on the Denver and Fort Worth R. R. on the north a distance of about 250 miles.
The collections were made incidentally to geologic and paleontologic explorations conducted by a party of the Geologic Survey of Texas which was under the direction of Mr. William F. Cummins.
While attached to this party I picked up such specimens as came in my way and a good many others were obtained by Mr. Cummins and by Mr. William L. Black of the party.
The region traversed presents great variety of landscape plains alternating with hilly country and in some cases with bad lands.
Water issues at many points from beneath the superficial cenozoic beds of the Staked Plains forming the head tributaries of the Colorado Brazos and Red rivers.
This water however generally soon disappears beneath the sand that fills the beds of the creeks and rivers or appears only in pools.
Under such circumstances it is frequently impregnated with saline and alkaline salts.
The springs are generally the resort of the numerous cattle that graze in this region and jvhen this is the case are so contaminated by their presence as to be unfit for human use.
Dead cattle were common in the few flowing streams at the time of my visit so that it became necessary to dig for a supply of water which should be partially relieved of impurities by filtration.
The best water apart from a few protected springs was obtained from artificial reservoirs filled with rain water which are made by the owners of cattleranges for their stock.
In these turtles batrachians watersnakes are not uncommon.
The route of the expedition followed theeasternescarpnient of the Staked Plain but at times crossed its spurs or entered its limits for twenty or thirty miles.
The total number of species enumerated is thirtythree.
These are distributed as follows.
Batrachia  JJrodela 1 species  Salientia 7 species.
Reptilia  Testudinata 5 species  LacertlUa 8 species  Ophidia 12 species.
A comparatively small number of species are found on the level surface of the Plain  the greater number being derived from the region bordering it on the east or the two great canyons which traverse it.
These are the Canyon Blanco from which issues the principal head stream of the Brazos  and the Canyon Paloduro which is traversed by the Prairie Dog head of the Red river.
The Tule Canyon is a branch of the latter.
This paper may be regarded as supplementary to one published as Bulletin No.
17 of the U. S. National Museum in 1880 On the Zoological Position of Texas.
'o Batrachia.
Urodela
Amblystoma tigrinum Green.
This species is extremely abundant according to Mr. Cummins in some permanent lakes on the Staked Plain near the Tule Canyon.
Numerous specimens were obtained at this locality but I could not find this or any other species of salamander elsewhere throughout the region explored although I examined carefully a number of suitable localities.
Mr. Cummins had previously obtained specimens from a well which was sunk in the Staked Plain near Canyon Blanco and which either had a subterranean origin or they were hatched from eggs carried to the locality as the latter was without water prior to the sinking of the well.
I obtained a specimen at Big Spring which was said to have been taken in the neighborhood.
Salientia
Bufo debilis Girard.
This species is rather abundant throughout the region traversed.
It is frequently found in the grass where its green color aids in concealing it.
When in the water its cry is like that of B. lentigmosus americanus but is more feeble and very  nasal.
Bufo cognatus Say.
First seen near the head waters of the Brazos but not common south of Tule Canyon.
Bufo lentiginosus Shaw.
var.
A large specimen was obtained near Clarendon.
The head is onefifth the length as in B. I. ivoodhousei but the cranial crests are as in B. I. americanus
Not seen south of this point.
Acris gryllus Lee.
Common wherever there is water.
Chorophilus triseriatus olarkii Baird.
Less abundant than the preceding but found throughout the entire region as far north as explored.
The spotted coloration is constant.
They sit immersed in the water with the head projecting uttering their cry as they inflate the enormous vocal sac to which the head appears to be but an appendage.
The voice differs from that of the form triseriatus in its more rapid utterance and the greater distinctness of the rising inflection at the end.
Spea hammondii bombifrons Cope.
Abundant near Canyon Tule Cummins not seen elsewhere except near Clarendon where I took one from the mouth of a Heterodon nasicus
Rana virescens brachycepbala Cope.
Found everywhere at water  the only species of the genus.
REPTILIA.
TESTUDINATA.
Cistudo ornata Agass.
Abundant on high land.
Observed in cojuila in May.
Chrysemys elegans Wied.
Found in all permanent springs and along streams often where it has little concealment owing to the shallowness of the water.
It often lies partly hidden in mud and in deeper water bites the fisherman's hook.
Chelydra serpentina L. Reported by Mr. Cummins from the head waters of the Brazos.
Kinosternum flavescens Agass.
An abundant species in the region traversed and represented in my collection by an adult male and two adult and one young females.
The characters are in general those of the C. flavescens Agass. but in some respects it differs from the type specimen.
The carapace though depressed is a longitudinal oval the posterior lobe of the plastron is wider than long and the inguinal region is but shallowly grooved.
It agrees with C. flavescens in having the superior anterior angle of the antepenultimate marginal scutum produced upwards so as to notch deeply the penultimate costal scute and in having but a narrow line of contact between the first and second vertebral scuta.
It differs from the type of the species in having the pectoral scuta cut off from contact with each other by the posterior direction of the humeropectoral sutures which reach the pectoroabdominal a character present in all of the adults.
It results from this that the gular scute does not extend half way to the end of the median humeral scuta as it does in the type specimenPosterior lobe of plastron notched posteriorly.
One inguinal and one axillary scutum in contact with each other.
Penultimate marginal scutum twice as high as the last one posteriorly and encroaching on the pygal and last costal plates.
Nuchal plate small no trace of dorsal keels muzzle oblique the apex projecting.
The color of the carapace is olivaceous and of the plastron brownishyellow or yellowishbrown.
The skin is leadcolored except the jaws chin throat and anterior face of fore legs which are lightyellowMale with numerous rather obscure small brownish spots on sides of head and maxillary region.
Length carapace 6  140 mm.
 width 95 mm.
length of plastron 110 mm.
Length carapace 9 102 mm.
 width 76 mm.
 length plastron 92 mm.
This species is especially abundant in the artificial tanks of the cattle ranges and in temporary pools of rain water.
Its muzzle may be frequently seen projecting from the water and it is an active swimmer.
As the pools approach desiccation these turtles make their way over land to other localities.
The male in my possession was an inhabitant of a small pool at which we camped for two days but he took his departure for a more permanent habitation on the day that we left.
AVe overtook him on the road still covered with fresh mud.
Trionyx emoryi Agass.
Abundant in all permanent water.
LACERTILIA.
Eumeces obsoletus B.
 G Not seen living by me but obtained at Big Sjoring near which place it was said to have been caught.
Cnemidophorus gularis gularis B.
 G. Cope Transac.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc 1892 p. 435.
The common swift of the country very abundant and showing no variation of color.
We did not see it north of Holmes' creek which is a tributary of the Red River south of the Prairie Dog creek.
Cnemidophorus grahamii B.
 G. Two specimens of this rare species were obtained by Mr. W. L. Black near the Tule Canyon.
The pattern of coloration is like that of C. tessellatus tessellatus or C. gularis scalaris except that it has a median dorsal zigzag light stripe.
Holbrookia maculata B.
 G. Abundant everywhere but chiefly on the open prairie.
Holbrookia texana Trosch.
Abundant in rocky ground.
Crotaphytus coUaris Say.
Abundant generally in rocky ground.
Phrynosoma cornutum Harl.
Abundant especially on the Staked Plain.
Not seen north of Clarendon.
Phrynosoma modestum Gird.
Rather abundant as far as Clarendon  Tule Canyon.
General Pope sent this species to the National Museum from the Staked Plain and once from the headwaters of the Colorado of Texas but I had no expectation of finding it so widely distributed on the eastern side of the Staked Plain.
It is a species of the Sonoran fauna OPHIDIA.
Contia episcopa episcopa Kenn.
From the Colorado to the Salt Fork of the Red River  not very common.
In life the vertebral line is orange colored.
Contia episcopa isozona Cope.
One specimen from Tule Canyon  W. L. Black.
Ophilobus getulus sayi Holbr.
One specimen from Tule Canyon  W. L. Black.
Pityophis sayi sayi Schleg.
The largest snake of the region and generally distributed.
Bascanium flagelliforme Catesby.
The most abundant snake of the country.
Although belligerent when attacked this species soon becomes perfectly tame and seems to be subject to some kind of hypnotization.
The head is held rigidly forward at an angle with the body and it is difficult to make it modify the position.
Heterodon uasicus nasicus B.
 G. Found to be abundant in sandy soils from the heads of the Brazos as far north as we went.
Heterodon platyrhinus Latr.
One specimen from Tule Canyon  W. L. Black.
Eutaenia proxima Say Specimens nearly as black as Mississippi valley specimens from Tule Canyon  W. L. Black.
Eutaenia elegans marciana B.
 G. Tule Canyon  W. L. Black.
Natrix fasciata transversa Hallow.
Common throughout the entire region and constant in its characters.
Crotalophorus catenatus edwardsii B.
 G. One specimen from Quana Hardeman Co. on the upper Red River  W. L. Black.
Crotalus confluentus confluentus Say.
Abundant on the Staked Plain as far south as Canyon Blanco and on the lower country on the headwaters of the Red river.
This rattlesnake is abundant in prairie dog villages as it protects itself by retreating quickly into their holes when approached.
Crotalus adamanteus atrox B.
 G. At the foot of the Staked Plain about the heads of the Colorado.
Not met with on the Plain or north of the region mentioned.
Observations.
The preceding list is remarkable from the absence of any species of the genus Sceloporus of which none were seen by the expedition.
This is due to the scarcity of timber where they are generally found in Texas.
The terrestrial species of Mexico and of the Great Basin do not appear to occur in this region.
Another peculiarity is the great scarcity of individuals and species of Eatcenia.
I saw but one specimen during the expedition and this I did not obtain.
As the point of junction of the Texan district with the Central and Sonoran Regions the country explored deserves especial attention.
Enough is however not yet known of the distribution of many of the species found within the political limits of Texas to enable us to reach final conclusions.
It is however evident that the boundaries of the zoological district of Texas do not extend east of Dallas.
The only exclusively Texas forms of the above list are the following  Chorophilus triseriatus clarkii Bd. Kinosternum flavescens Ag. Trionyx emoryi Ag. Holbrookia texana Trosch. Phrynosoyna cornutum Harl. Contia episcopa episeojia Kenn. Natrix fasciata transversa Hallow. Crotalophorus catenatiis edivardsii B.
 G.  that is four species and four subspecies.
Species of the Louisianian district Ophibolus getulus sayi Holbr.
and Eutoenia proxima.
Species of the Sonoran region and Texan district three Bufo dehilis Gird. Crotaphytus collaris Say Crotalus adamanteus atrox B.
 G. Species of the Sonoran entering the list  Cnemidophorus gularis gularis B.
 G. Phrynosoma modestum Gird.
 two species.
Species of the Central Region are more numerous viz.
 Biifo cognatus Say Spea hammondii bombljrons Cope Chrysemys elegans Wied. Holbrookia maculata B.
 G. Pityophis sayi sayi Schl. Heterodon nasicusnasieus B.
 G. Crotalus confluentns confluenius Say  total three species and four subspecies.
Synoptically the results may be tabulated as follows.
species subspecies Texan 4 4 Central  4 2 Texan and one other region 6 7 Other species of the list not included in these figures have a still wider distribution.
It seems from the above that the region explored is the meeting ground of species of several different regions as its geographical position would indicate.
 This species may also occur in the Sonoran region.
