Notes ON A COLLECTION OF SHELLS FROM THE STATE OF TABASCO MEXICO.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
The Academy has received during the past summer several parcels of land and freshwater mollusks collected by Professor Jose N. Rovirosa mainly in the State of Tabasco Mexico.
As a portion of them are of considerable interest the writer has drawn up the following list.
Glandina ghiesbreghti Pfr.
San Juan Bautista Tabasco.
Streptostyla nigricans Pfr.
Mountains of Poana Tabasco.
Eucalodium compactum n. sp.
PI.
XIV fig.
4.
Shell cylindricaltapering solid having a short closed umbilical chink the cuticle thin evanescent very pale straw colored  composed of 9 narrow somewhat convex whorls which are rather strongly striated the strice arcuate irregular in places and from onehalf to onethird of a millimeter apart except on the last whorl where they are closer  last whorl angular in front of the upper angle of the aperture becoming well rounded but retaining a trace of the peripheral angle on its latter half.
Aperture oblique irregularly ovate  jeristome continuous and free from the preceding whorl well expanded  columella having an obsolete fold.
Internal axis having a strong spiral fold.
Alt 53 diam.
19 mill.
Tabasco Mexico.
Cylindrella morini Morel.
Mountains of Poana Tabasco.
Ampuuaria ghiesbreghti Reeve.
San Juan Bautista Tabasco.
Chondropoma rubicundum Morel.
Mountains of Poana Tabasco.
Cyclophorus maleri Crosse  Fischer.
Mountains of Poana Tabasco.
Cyclotus dysoni Pfr.
Mountains of Poana Tabasco.
Helicina ghiesbreghti Pfr.
Mountains of Poana Tabasco.
Helicina oweniana Pfr.
var.
A rather aberrant variety but in all jrobability this species.
Poana Tabasco.
Helicina tenuis Pfr.
var.
chiapensis Pfr.
Poana Tabasco.
Tlnio semigranosus Busch.
Rio Tulija Tabasco.
Anodonta globosa Lea.
A very large specimen measuring 182x136x92 mill.
San Juan Bautista Tabasco.
The splendid work of Crosse and Fisclier upon the genus Pachycliihis enables me to readily classify the specimens collected by Prof. Rovirosa the illustrations of the varieties of P. glaphyrus are especially valuable.
Pachychilus glaphyrus Morelet.
This species is an exceedingly variable one more so perhaps than any other Mexican Melanian
The American student however will readily call to mind cases of equal variability among the species of our Southern States.
The material sent by Prof Rovirosa comprises a number of varietal forms not before made known.
P. glaphyrus Rovirosai Pils.
This was figured and described under the name P. polygonaius var.
Rovirosaiin the Proceedings 1892 jx 153 PL VIII figs.
9 10.
I was at that time not aware of the fact that Morelet's name glaphyrus antedated that given by Lea polygonatus.
This form is allied to P. glaphyrus typical and to the var.
scamnata but it is distinct from both.
The form is notable for its stout straightsided spire nonimpressed sutures and the unsculptured young.
P. glaphyrus var.
Wween polygonatus and immanis.
PI.
XIV figs.
5 6.
The two specimens figured are of the same size but differ in sculpture.
One fig.
6 is smooth above and below having a strong subspinous keel at the periphery and a smooth acute keel below it.
Upon the earlier whorls of the spire there are longitudinal waves and two spiral cords above the peripheral keel which diminishes in size.
The base has no spirals.
The other specimen has the entire bodywhorl spirally lirate liri on bodywhorl 9 on penultimate whorl 3 and strongly plicate.
P. glaphyrus potamarchus.
PI.
XIV fig.
7.
This is one of the largest forms of Pachychilus known and it is the most aberrant of the glaphyrus stock.
The shell is rather slender and acutely conical the outline of the spire being straight.
The aperture is ovate narrowed above and onethird the length of the shell.
Whorls 1011 remaining several of the earlier being lost by erosion.
The microscopic sculpture is the same as in var.
Rovirosai.
There are no traces whatever of the waves or folds so prominently shown by the other varieties of glaplnjms and the spiral cords are also completely obsolete or indicated by the faintest traces on the base.
The color is olivegreen or olivebrown.
Alt.
99 diam.
33 mill.
Alt.
87 diam.
29 mill.
Tabasco Mexico.
This variety differs from the pyramidalis of Morelet in being larger and smoother lacking altogether the chestnut colored spirals of that form.
P. chrysalis Brot.
The specimens are large alt.
60 diam.
27 mill.
 alt.
of aperture 25 mill.
and have nearly perfect apices.
They were collected at Ixtacomitan Chiapas where they are called  Shote.
There can be little doubt that P. larvatus Brot is a synonym of chrysalis.
P. corvinus Morelet.
The specimens were collected at the Montanas de Poanji Tabasco.
They differ from Crosse and Fischer's figures in having the callus at the upper termination of the inner lip much heavier.
Pachychilus n. sp.
This is a form resembling closely in contour and sculpture the P. subexarahis C.  F. and also P. largillierti Phil. but differing from both in possessing an extremely heavy deposit of callus at the upper termination of the inner lip.
The specimens were collected on the mountains of Poana state of Tabasco.
As none having the cuticle preserved are at hand I refrain from giving a full description or name.
Potamanax subgen.
nov.
Shell solid oval with short conic spire spirally sculptured or banded.
Aperture ovate acute above broadly rounded below outer lip not sinuous  inner lip more or less heavily calloused not notched at the base.
Operculum fewwhorled with basal nucleus.
Type P. Rovirosai Pils.
This group has the sculpture of Hemisinus but differs from that genus in the entire unnotched basal lip.
The columella callus is much like some species of Pachychilus but the operculum is very different from that genus.
From both of these groups it differs in the short ovate contour of the shell.
The description of the operculum is taken from Melania brevis d'Orbigny of Cuba which I consider congeneric.
P. Rovirosai n. sp.
PI.
XIV figs.
8 9.
Shell oblongconic very solid whitish encircled by numerous narrow smooth spii'al line of a dark brown color and somewhat alternating in size.
Spire conical apical whorl eroded  whorls 5 remaining slightly convex the last whorl large regularly convex.
Aperture a little less than half the length of the shell ovate angular above outer lip regularly arcuate inner lip strongly calloused.
Alt.
20 diam.
12 mill old specimen.
Alt.
16 J diam.
91 mill young specimen.
Two specimens are before me collected by Prof Rovirosa at the mountains of Poana State of Tabasco.
The older individual PL XIV fig.
8 is considerably worn  the other is perfect but not whollv adult and neither contains the operculum.
The species is allied apparently to the Cuban Melania brevis Orb. but is decidedly longer and the lira are much stronger.
The relationship of Potamanax to Hemisinus in sculpture and operculum is obvious and has caused me to regard it as a subgenus rather than a distinct genus  but the total lack of a basal notch or truncation is a character usually considered of generic importance.
Explanation of Plate XIV.
Figs.
1 2 3 Chrysodormis Sipho Stonei Pils.
Fig.
4 Eucalodium eompactum Pils.
Fig.
5 6 Pachychilus glaphyrus var.
Fig.
7 P. glaphyrus var.
potamarchus Pils.
Figs.
8 9 Potamanax Eovirosai Pils.
November 1.
