A REVISION OF THE NORTH AMERICAN Creodonta WITH Notes ON SOME GENERA WHICH HAVE BEEN REFERRED TO THAT GROUP.
BY W. B. SCOTT.
The Creodonta form an extremely heterogeneou.s group very difficult to define and still more difficult to classify and subdivide.
This difficulty arises partly from the imperfection of the available material but more especially from the lack of diagnostic characters which are common to all the members of the order and from the minute steps of gradation by which they shade into other groups of allied unguiculates and even ungulates.
Creodonta were among the earliest fossil mammals which were accurately studied and they were then referred to the carnivores.
Laurillard Pomel and others however regarded them as marsupials and Aymard and Gaudry following this example have called them Sousdidelphes.
In 1875 Cope proposed the name of Creodonta for the group which he regarded as a suborder of the Insectivora but in 1877 he named this comprehensive order the Bunotheria referring to it as suborders the Creodonta Mesodonta Insectivora Tilludonta and Tteniodonta.
The creodont division has not found universal acceptance Filhol regarding them asCarnivora Wortman as Insectivora and Lydekker as a suborder of the Carnivora Nevertheless they cannot be included among either the insectivores or the carnivores without uniting these groups and it is therefore most convenient to regard them as an order.
The number of genera which should be referred to the Creodonta the families into which they should be grouped and their mutual relationships are matters of great obscurity and difficulty and opinion on the subject has been both conflicting and fluctuating.
The reason for this lies largely in the imperfect condition of the available material the few genera whose structure is at all completely understood being for the most part members of highly diflferentiated sidelines which have but little importance in estimating the character of the group as a whole.
More especially is this true of the Puerco genera which are known almost exclusively from teeth together with a few scattered bones and as the trigonodont tritubercular plan of molar tooth is so universal in that formation the discrimination of genera families and even orders from teeth alone is excessively difficult.
It may well be the case that several genera which are now refei'red to the creodonts really belong to very diH'erent orders.
Pantolestes for example was regarded as a creodont until the discovery of the footstructure showed it to be an artiodactyl.
For an opportunity to study the Puercu creodonts I am indebted to Professor Cope who with his accustomed liberality has placed his unique collection at my disposal.
I would also exjDress my thanks to Professor Osborn who by kindly sending me the advancesheets of his paper on the Wasatch fauna has enabled me to incorporate his very interesting observations upon certain genera of that formation.
It would be quite superfluous to recapitulate here all the various schemes of classification which have been proposed for the creodonts and I shall therefore mention only those presented by Cope and Schlossei.
Originally Cope' excluded Mesomjx and Hytenodon from the group and recognized but three families  the Amblocionidcs with Amblodonus and perhaps Palceonidis   the Oxycenidcn Avith Oxycena Stypolophus Pterodon and perhaps Pair lofe lis  the Arctocyonidce with Arctocyon and probably Miacis and Didymidis.
In 1884 Cope proposed a new jlan of division between the Creodonta and Insectivora assigning to the former the genera with tritubercular molars and dividing the group thus greatly enlarged into eight families  Mesouychidoe including Amblodonus Hycunodontidce Chrysoehlorididce Leptididw or Centdidce Mythoinyido' or Potamogalidoi Talpidce OxyrEiiidce including Palceonidis and Miacidce.
In his great work on the Tertiary Vertebrata 1885 the same author removes the existing families of insectivores and the genus Hycenodoii from the creodonts but retains provisionally the Leptididce from which the Ardocyonidce.
are iemoved and places PaloEonidis in the Amblodonidm.
Schlosser places the Centeiidce Talpidce Chrysoehlorididce and Potamocalidce together witli the extinct genera Leptidis Idops Mesodedesaud Diacodon amoug the Insectivora refers the Miacidce to the Carnivora and divides the Creodonta into five families 1 Ardocyonidcv with Ardocyon Hyodedes Heteroborus and Mioc.loenus.
2 Proviverridce with Deltatherium Triisodov Diddphodus Stypolophus Qiiercytherium Proviverra and Cynohycenodon.
3 Oxycoiidce with Pterodon 1 Rep. U. S. Geogr.
Surv.
W. lOdth Mer.
Vol.
IV Pt.
II pp.
87ff.
 Die Affcn Lemuren etc  d. Europ.
Tert.
Oxiccaa Protopsalis and Hrjcenodon.
4 Amhhjctonidce with Ambyetonus aud Pakeonidis.
5 Meson ycliidoi with Mesoiiyx Dissacus Scijcothraustes Patriofelis and Thereutherium.
Later in the same work 1889 he modities this arrangement by removing the Miaeidce from the Carnivora and erecting them into a special group Creodonta Adaptiva.
I regard Schlosser's sclieme as on the whole a very natural one and have adopted it with some modification.
For the reasons already explained the following classification of the Creodonta must be regarded as merely tentative a provisional attempt to arrange the genera by jiliyla or lines of divergence which can be but imperfectly expressed by rigid definitions even if these lines were much more clearly and completely understood than is the case at present.
It may seem that I have unduly increased the number of genera and that many of these are but vaguely defined.
But it should be remembered that in the Puerco and to a somewhat less degree in the Wasatch the pattern of the teeth is similar throughout many difi'erent groups and minute differences of tootlistructure must be employed when we have reason to believe that they indicate important differences in the general character of the animal.
This is illustrated by Panto lestes an artiodactyl which was regarded and with good reason as a creodont.
With our present materials a rigid system is impracticable because it leads to the unnatural association of forms really very different.
But at the same time it must be admitted that such vagueness is most undesirable and may lead us quite astray.
Hence the emphasis laid upon the provisional character of the scheme.
In the following table of families and in the enumeration of the genera under those families the problematical and doubtful forms are omitted from consideratiim and will be discussed at the close of the paper.
It must not however be inferred from this that all those genera which are enumerated belong unmistakably to the creodonts  merely that they very probally do so.
I.
Fourth upper remolar not forming a welldeveloped sectorial ' sectorials present if at all in more than one pair.
1.
Superior molars tritubercular not trenchant cusps erect and acute inferior molars luberculosectorial with trigonid moderately elevated above the talon and not forming a shearing blade  pre Oxyana and Palaonictis form a partial exception to this statement.
raolars simple and trenchant P4 with a deuterocone and p sometimes witli deuteroconid Oxyclenid.
2.
Superior molars more or less completely quadritubercular trigonid of lower molars very little or not at all higher than talon  paraconid much reduced or absent all cusps low and massive premolars high and acute Arctocy'Onid.. 3.
Superior molars tritubercular with low massive cusps but sometimes having a welldeveloped hypocone on 51 2  trigonid much higher than talon but not forming a shearing blade paraconid reduced  premolars high and acute TRiisODONTiDiE.
4.
Superior molars tritubercular not trenchant  inferior molars with metaconid rudimentary or absent talon trenchant lacking entoconid.
Astragalus deeply grooved except in Dissacus MESONYCHIDiE.
5.
Superior molars tritubercular and somewhat trenchant paraand metacones closely approximated and with a cutting crest posterior to the latter  inferior molars with elevated trigonid forming a trenchant blade PROViVERRiDiE.
6.
Paraand metacones of superior molars connate or indistinguishably fused protocone reduced or absent posterior cutting ridge much enlarged  inferior molars with metaconid and talon reduced or absent the protoand paraconids enlarged flattened and forming an efficient sectorial blade Hynodontid.
7.
Superior molars without or with only rudimentary posterior cutting ridge  paraand metacones very high and pointed and well separated  inferior molars with reduced talon well developed metaconid  protoand paraconids enlarged flattened and forming an efficient sectorial blade.
Face shortened PALvEONiCTiDiE.
II.
Fourth upper premolar and first lower molar forming the single pair of sectorials superior molars tritubercular inferior molars except the first also tubercular MiACiDiE.
OXYCLJENID Fam.
nov. Superior molars tritubercular not trenchant cusps erect and acute  inferior molars tuberculosectorial with trigonid moderately elevated above the talon but not forming a shearing blade  premolars simple and trenchant 4 with a deuterocone and p sometimes with deuteroconid.
The genera associated to form this family are known almost entirely from the dentition and their relationship with one another even their ordinal position is very obscure the teeth being of that generalized and primitive character to which all taammalian types of dentition converge as we trace them back in time.
OXYCLNUSi Cope.
Syn.
Mioclttnus Copein part.
Only upper dentition known.
The anterior premolars form simple compressed and trenchant cones on 14 there is also a well developed deuterocone.
The molars are simply tritubercular with small erect and acute cusps.
2 is the largest of the series especially in the transverse direction.
The paraand metacones arise close to the outer side of the crown the latter somewhat nearer to the median line.
The protocone is the largest of the elements.
There is no distinct hypocone merely a thickening of the cingulum at that point which is most marked in m.
Minute but very distinct protoand metaconules are present.
M3 is very much reduced in size and more oval than triangular in shape but preserves all the cusps.
One species 0.
Mioclcenus cuspidatus Cope.
Puerco.
CHRIACUS3 Cope.
Syn Pelycodus Cope in part.
The dentition of this genus is very much like that of the primitive lemuroids to a genus of which some of the species were originally referred.
The character of the symphysis the spacing of the inferior premolars and the presence of the paraconid being the only important differences.
The upper premolars have compressed and acute protocones and on P3  4 are well developed deuterocones.
The upper molars are triangular in shape and much extended transversely  1 has a small hypocone and ' a hypocone and an additional cusp io front of the protocone which in accordance with Osborn's system of nomenclature we may call the protostyle  is the smallest of the series and has neither hypocone nor protostyle.
The anterior lower premolars are simple and spaced apart but P4 has a deuteroconid and heel.
In the molars the trigonid is much higher than the talon and the paraconid is reduced  the talon also has three cusps of which the hypoconulid on m is in some species enlarged and carried on a distinct fang.
1 Proc.
Amer.
Phil.
Soc 1883 p. 312.
 Tran.
Am.
Phil.
Soc Vol XVI Pt.
II p. 320.
 Ptoc.
Am.
Phil.
Soc 1883 p. 313.
Two species certainly belong to this genus C. Pelycodus pelvidens Cope and C. truncatus Cope both from the Puerco.
In addition we may provisionally refer to it three other species of which the upper dentition is unknown but whose lower teeth agree closely with those of the typical species  these are  C. Deltatherinm Baldwini Cope and C. stenops Cope from the Puerco and C. Pelycodiis angulatus Cope from the Wasatch.
PKOTOCHRIACUS gen. nov. Syn.
Chriacus Cope in part.
This genus is closely allied to Chriacvs but differs from it in a number of details.
P has no distinct deuterocone the upper molars are less extended transversely the hypocone is smaller and the protostyle absent.
In the lower molars the trigonid and talon are of nearly equal height.
Two species P. Chriacics priscus Cope and P. Chriacus simplex Cope.
Puerco.
EPICHRIACTJS gen. nov. Syn.
Chriacus Cope in part.
In this genus the upper molars resemble those of Chriacus but the last lower premolar has all the elements of a molar though not fully developed.
The trigonid rises considerably above the talon.
The third molar in both jaws is very much reduced.
The mandible is long and slender.
The humerus has a thin broad and low trochlea with large epicondylar foramen and very prominent supinator ridge.
The ulna has a long olecranon and the sigmoid notch is very oblique to the line of the shaft.
The astragalus is very peculiar the trochlea has a remarkably limited anteroposterior extent and is nearly flat transversely but very oblique high on the external and very low on the mesial side where there is a depression for the internal malleolus of the tibia.
The ectal calcaneal facet is very large and widely separated from thesustentacular fiicet which is very narrow  the neck is very slender and directed obliquely distally and inward.
One species E. Chriacus schlosserianus Cope Puerco.
PENTACODON gen. nov. Syn.
Chriacus Cope in part.
Upper teeth unknown.
Anterior lower premolars very small and simple in construction p is large with large heel and very distinct deuteroconid.
The molars increase in size from the first to the third which is very large proportionately  its talou is remarkable for the entire absence of the entoconid the bypoconid and hypocon ulid form very acute cusps upon the external and posterior borders of the talon respectively the valley of which thus opens inward without obstruction.
One species C. Chriacus inversus Cope Puerco.
LOXOLOPHUSi Cope.
Syii.
Chriacus Cope in part.
The superior molars are tritubercular with very minute hypocoue and are remai'kable for their auteroposterior as compared with their transverse extent.
The lower molars have a high trigonid with all three cusps well developed and basinshaped talon with elevated hypoconid.
One species L. hyattianus Cope Syn.
Chriacus hyattianus Cope Loxolophus adapinus Cope.
Puerco.
TRICENTES Cope.
Syn.
Miochenus Cope in part.
This genus is very closely allied to Protochriacus but differs in the absence of Pj.
The premolars are compressed acute very high and simple except Rj which has a small deuterocone.
M anH  have a nearly quadrate shape produced by the well developed hypocone and are surrounded by a stout cingulum.
M3 is the smallest of the series the hypocone is absent and the metacone reduced.
The canine is large and separated from P2 by a considerable diastema.
Inferior dentition unknown.
The face is very short and the anterior edge of the orbit is over the space between p and 'j.
The forehead is fiat the supraciliary ridges short and converging rapidly to form the sagittal crest.
Two species may certainly be referred to this genus  T. Mioclw7ius buccidentus Cope and T. crassicollidens Cope Puerco.
A third species is doubtful viz. 
T. Mioclcenus suhtrigonus Cope in which the number of upper premolars is not known but the tooth structure agrees closely with Tricentes.
Puerco.
lAmer.
Naturali't 1885 p. 386.
2 Loc.
cit. p. 385 Trans.
Am.
Phil.
Soc Vol.
XVI Ft. II p. 204.
3 Am.
Nat.
1885 p. 386.
 Proc.
Am.
Phil.
Soc 1883 p. 31G.
 Trans.
Am.
Phil.
Soc loc.
cit. p. 304.
20 ELLIPSODON.
gen. nov. Syii.
Tri'ceiites Cope in part.
The systematic position of this form is entirely obscure it agrees with Tr'icentes in having but three upper premolars but differs entirely in the construction of the molars.
The premolars are relatively broad and massive almost as in MlodcBnus  P4 is esjecially broad and has a very large deuterocoue.
The molars are oval in shape and have no hypocone  ' is the largest of the series and ' very greatly reduced and forms a mere ovalshaped rudiment without recognizable elements.
Inferior dentition unknown.
One species  E. Triceiites iiuequidens Cope.
Puerco.
Though technically Chriacvs and its allies so far as their structure is at pi'esent known belong among the creodonts their general aspect is very similar to that of the Eocene Primates and it is difficult to resist the suspicion that they will eventually prove to be primitive ancestral forms of that group.
ARCTOOYONID Cope.
Superior molars more or less completely quadritubercular  trigonid of lower molars very little or not at all higher than talon  paraconid much reduced or absent all cusps of molars low and massive premolars high and acute.
CLJENODON gen. nov. Syn.
Mioclicnus Cope in part.
In the present state of knowledge it is very difficult to justify the separation of this form from the European genus rctocon and yet the identification of genera from different continents upon insufficient materials is quite as apt to lead to erroneous conclusions in questions of geological correlation and zoological distribution as the opposite course is to cause confusion from a systematic point of view.
In view of this choice of evils I have provisionally suggested a new name.
A not unimportant difference from Arctocyon is the less completely quadritubercular character of the upper molars.
From Hyodectes it differs in the greater simplicity of the molars and lack of secondary tubercles as well as in the less extreme reduction of m while it may be distinguished from Heteroborus by the presence of p which is absent in that genus.
In Cljenodon the upper molars are subquadrate in outline with fairly well developed hypocone.
M2is the largest of the series 1 the smallest.
The anterior lower premolars are small and feeble  p is implanted by a single fang and is separated by a diastema from p which has two roots.
J is much the largest of the series and consists of a high acute and trenchant cone with a strong cingulum which forms minute anterior and posterior basal cusps.
The lower molars are longer and narrower than the upper the talon is larger than the trigonid and the paraconid is much reduced or absent.
M3 has a distinct hypoconulid.
The mandible is long and stout with regularly curved inferior border and large deeply marked masseteric fossa.
The zygapophyses of the lumbar vertebrie display the involuted and interlockiug shape characteristic of the creodonts.
The manus is pentadactyl plantigrade and remarkable for the very slight degree of interlocking of the metacarpals.
The fibula is very stout and forms an exceedingly massive external malleolus.
The astragalus is much like that of Arctocyon but has a longer narrower and somewhat flatter trochlea and as in that genus is perforated by a foramen.
Two species are clearly referable to Chtnodon  C. Miodcenus Jerox Cope and C Miocljenus corrugatus Cope.
A third species C Mioclcenus protogonioides Cope cannot be technically separated from it but the general appearance of the teeth is so different from those of the typical species as to justify the suspicion that more complete material w'ill cause its removal to another group.
In jarticular its resemblance to 
Trie.entes subtrigonus has been noted by Cope.
TETRACLNODON gen. nov. Syn.
MioLlienits Cope in part.
Superior dentition unknown  the inferior molars are like those of Clcenodon but the premolars are very different.
The anterior ones are relatively larger and more massive p is a stout compressed cone and has a minute anterior basal cusp paraconid and a small heel which forms two basinlike depressions divided by a median ridge.
P has all the elements of a molar with a massive protoconid and small paraand deuteroconids  the heel is low and composed of two cusps metaand tetartocouids.
The molars are constrncted as in ClEiodon but are less rugose than in either of the undoubted species of that genus.
The humerus has a broad and flattened head small tuberosities and wide shallow bicipital groove.
The deltoid ridge is very prominent and runs far down the shaft which is stouter than in Arctocyon.
The trochlea is higher thicker and narrower than ill that geuus and the supinator ridge less prominent  the entepicondyle is very large and is perforated.
The distal end of the radius is narrow and flattened and the facets for the scaphoid and lunar are separate'
marked a very unusual feature among creodonts.
The ilium is strongly trihedral and very little expanded  the inferior surface is broad and the spine prominent.
One species T. 3Iiocljeniis fioveriamis Cope.
Puerco.
ANACODONi Cope.
This genus was founded upon the inferior molars and referred to the Condylarthra.
Osborn however who has obtained more extensive material regards it as a creodont and member of the present family.
According to him the molar formula is P M.f and the dentition presents the following pecularities   1 The enlargement of the second molar in both jaws the smaller size of the first and third and the very marked reduction of the entire premolar series 2 The degenerate condition of the cusps of the molars and the formation of innumerable secondary tubercles or crenations.
3 The probable presence of a wide diastema.
 has tritoand deuterocones and the tetartocone is represented by a low ridge distinct from the cingulum and thus has the constitution of a molar.
The upper molars are of a broad oval shape with very low main cusps small hypocone and very much wrinkled and tuberculate surface.
P and 4 are small and have only a low heel in addition to the protoconid.
M has an enlarged hypoconulid.
One species A .
w'sidejis Cope  Wasatch.
TRIISODONTID Fam.
nov. Superior molars tritubercular with low massive cusps sometimes having a well developed hypocone on 2  trigonid of lower molars much higher than talon but not forming a shearing blade paraconid reduced  premolars high and acute.
TRIISODONi Cope.
This genus has many suggestions of affinity wMth the Mesonychidce from which it differs in the less reduced and simplified dentition.
The upper teeth and the anterior lower premolars are not known.
The canine is large and of oval section without cutting edges.
P is small and p very large with very high acute and 1 Proc.
Am.
Phil.
Soc 1881 p. 181.
2 Bull.
Am.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist. Vol.
IV pp.
115118. trenchant protoconid and a talon of two trenchant cusp of which the external is much the higher and more acute.
Seen from the outer side this tooth closely resembles the corresponding one of Dissacus differing only in the presence of the tetartoconid.
In the molars the trigonid rises considerably above the talon and is composed of a high sharp and massive protoconid of a small low metaconid and a still smaller and lower paraconid  the two latter cusps are on the same anteroposterior line and in m at least are not visible from the external side.
The talon consists of a high and sharp hypoconid with trenchant anterior edge and internally three very much smaller cusps representing the hypocouulid entoconid and a tubercle in front of the latter to which no name has been given.
This crenulate inner border of the talon is highly characteristic of the genus.
Three species  T. quivirensis Cope T. bleulminatus Cope and T. MiocJcenus heUprinlanus Cope.
In his last publication' Cope refers the T. heilprinianus to a subgenus Goniacodon of Miodcetius but the talon of the only known tooth agrees best with that of Triisodon.
GONIACODONCope.
Syn Mioclcenus Cope in part  Triisodon Cope in part.
Though established only as a subgenus of Mioclcenus this group of species should be raised to full generic rank  it is closely allied on the one hand to Triisodon and on the other to Sarcothraustes the distinction between the three being frequently a matter of much difficulty.
The species are of moderate size smaller on the average than those of either of the allied genera.
The anterior upper premolars are small and simple.
 is implanted by three fangs at least in G. levlsanus but has no distinct deuterocone.
P has a very high acute protocone and well developed deuterocone.
The upper molars are triangular in shape with low conical cusps and m has a fairly well developed hypocone.
P has a small talon divided into minute outer and inner cusps.
The lower molars are the characteristic feature of the genus  the trigonid is moderately elevated above the talon  the protoand metaconids are of nearly the same size and very closely approximated forming a twin cusp 1 Amer.
Naturalist 1881 p. 667.
2 Trans.
Am.
Pliil.
Soc Vol.
xvi Pt.
II p. 321.
 Loc.
cit.
which is cleft but a short distance below the apex  the paracouid is very small depressed and submedian in position i. e. standing in front of the space between the notoand metaconids.
The talon is basinshaped and consists of hypoand entoconids which may be of nearly the same size G. rusticus or the former may be much the larger x. levisanus.
A minute hypoconulid is also present.
M is much reduced.
Three species G. Trusodon 3Iioelcenus levisanus Cope G. Mioclznus gaudryanus Cope and G. Trusodon Mioclcenus rusticus Cope.
Puerco.
MICROCL.aNODON gen. nov. Syii.
Aliocluiiiis Cope m part.
Known only from lower molars which are much like those of Gonincodo esecially in the constitution of the trigonid but the talon is very ditterent and agrees with that of Deltutherimn and Pentacodon in the absence of the entoconid and large size of the hypoconulid especially in m  tiie valley is thus widely open on the inner side.
One species 3f.
Tri'isodon Mioclcenus assurgens Cope.
Puerco.'
SARCOTHRAUSTESi Cope.
Syn.
MiocLvmis Cope in part.
The largest Puerco Creodouts are to be found among the species of this genus.
The superior molars so far as they are known and the lower premolars agree closely with those of Goniacodon the only differences being their larger size more massive cusps thicker and more prominent cinguluni especially at the anteroexternal angle of the crown.
3 is oval in shape and I'educed in size having lost the metacone.
The anterior lower premolars are remarkable for their small size and simple construction but jr is very much larger and higher and has a large talon divided into inner and outer cusps.
The lower molars differ from those of Goniacodon in the composition of the trigonid the protoconid is much the largest element the paraand metaconids are greatly reduced and placed on the same fore and aft line as in Tri'isodon but the talon is very different consisting of hypoand entoconids and small hypoconulid which may or may not be much enlarged on m the size of which tooth is very variable in the different species.
The skull has a very small cranial cavity and a very high occipital crest which is 1 Proc.
Am.
Phil.
Soc 18S1 p. 193. archeil from side to side and continued forward into an extremely prominent sagittal crest.
The zygomatic arches are heavy and project strongly from the skull  the glenoid cavity is deeply concave with prominent preand postglenoid crests.
The mandible varies much in size and proportions among the difterent siecies being in some long and slender and in others very massive but in all the ascending ramus is of remarkable anteroposterior extent the distance from the condyle to in exceeding the length of the molar premolar series.
The condyle is laced low down and there is a short hooked angular process.
The masseteric fossa is large but shallow especially so in the larger species.
In his latest paper on the Puerco fauna Cope classifies Sareo.
thraustes as a subgenus of MiocUmiis a view which is obviously untenable as the affinities of the genus are much more nearly with the Mesomjchidce in which family Schlosser has included it.
There are five well marked species o Sareothraustes all of which are from the Puerco beds  S. antiquus Cope IS.
coryphceus Cope S. bathygnathus Cope and S.  Conorydes Miocleenns crassiciispis Cope.
MESONYCHIDJE Cope.
Superior molars tritubercular not trenchant  inferior molars with metaconid rudimentary or absent talon trenchant lacking entoconid.
Astragalus deeply grooved except in Dissacus and articulating with the cuboid.
The long continued existence of this family throughout the entire Eocene and into the White River Miocene brought with it numbers of important changes in dental and skeletal structure so that characters diagnostic of the entire family are difficult to find and yet the close relationship and succession of the various genera are so clear and obvious that it is impracticable to place them in more than one family.
DISSACTJS2 Cope.
This the oldest member of the series is in many respects closely similar to Goniacodon and Tn'isodon but with important differences.
The dental formula is unreduced but the upper premolars have already attained a considerable degree of complication.
P3 is much elongated anteroposteriorly and has a small deuterocone  P4 is completely molariform having a distinct tritocone in addition to the 1 Trans.
Am.
Phil.
Soc Vol.
xvi Pt.
II.
p. 30.
2Amer.
Naturalist 1881 p. 1019. large deuterocone.
The upper molars are very simple and consist of a large crescentic protoeone and low compressed paraand metacones the latter somewhat the smaller of the two.
In the lower jaw pi is very small and simple implanted b one fang.
P s and  are all alike except in size which increases posteriorly these teeth consist of a high acute trenchant and recurved protoconid and a low cutting heel but with no paraconid except for a rudimentary one on p.
In the lower molars the protoconid is greatly enlarged compressed acute and with cutting edges  the metnconid has almost comletely fused with the protoconid from which it is separated only by a very shallow groove  the paraconid is much reduced and forms a low anterior basal cusp the talon consists of the hypoconid only which has a trenchant upper margin.
The mandible is slender with long symphysis which reaches to p.
The posterior thoracic and lumbar vertebrae have the characteristic creodont feature of involuted zygapophyses.
In the humerus the en tepi condyle is less prominent than is usual among creodonts but retains the foramen  the trochlea is low but distinctly convex.
The ulna has a long olecranon.
The head of the radius is transversely oval and displays three humeral surfaces.
The astragalus is very slightly grooved and the trochlear surface extends to the middle of the neck  distally there is a distinct facet for the cuboid separated from the navicular surfiice by an angle the body of the bone is pierced by a foramen.
The calcaneum has a long tuber calcis and rather small sustentaculum.
The proximal end of the cuboid exhibits separate facets for the calcaneum and astragalus.
The feet were plantigrade and pentadactyl.
Three species have been referred to this genus  D. tiavajoviits Cope and D. carnifex Cope are from the Puerco and D. leptognathns Osborn is from the Wasatch but being known from a single molar only is provisionally placed in this genus.
PACHYNAi Cope.
Syn.
MesonyxCope in part.
If Cj P M.
The incisors are small the canines very robust.
Pi is small singlerooted and separated by a short diastema from 1 Rep. Vert.
Foss.
New Mexico U. S. Geog.
Surv.
W. 100th Mer. 1874 p. 13.
' Mesonyx ossifragus Tert.
Vert.
p. 362.
P2 which is somewhat larger and has a tritocoiie Pa is similar but larger and P4 is completely molariform but the triiocone is smaller than the protocone.
The molars have very massive cusps and exhibit a reduction of the metacone in favor of the paracone  3 is the smallest of the series and has lost the nietacone entirely.
The lower incisors are reduced to two small teeth in each ramus.
P is small and single rooted separated from the canine by a short space p2 aiidT are larger and have a well developed cutting talon while p is the largest of the series and rendered completely molariform by the addition of a paraconid.
The molars differ from those of Dissacusm the entire absence of the metaconid or perhaps it would be more correct to say that it has become completely fused with the protoconid.
The skull has a very long cranium and short face the zygomatic arches are extremely long massive and widely expanded.
The mandible has a slender liorizontal ramus and extremely broad ascending ramus ending in a bluntly rounded and slightly everted coronoid  the angle is truncate and not continued into a distinct process the symphysis is unusually long.
The limbbones of this genus as described by Cope show a remarkable disproportion between the length of the fore and hind legs.
The humerus is very short and stout with a very prominent deltoid crest which extends nearly the whole length of the shaft there is no distinct intertrochlear prominence the entepicondyle is very prominent and pierced by a foramen.
The ulna is long in proportion to the humerus and has a strikingly long olecranon.
The radius has a transversely oval head and massive distal end.
The femur is long and stout the tibia long and rather slender.
The astragalus is well grooved and has a large cuboidal facet which is nearly half as wide as that for the navicular a character unknown among creodonts except in this family.
The metapodials are short the phalanges depressed the unguals flattened and almost hooflike.
The species of this group were the largest of the Eocene flesheaters and must have presented an exceedingly curious appearance when in life from the disproportion between the great head exceeding that of the largest grizzly bears in size and the small weak feet as well as that between the length of the fore and hind limbs.
Two species  P. Mesonyx ossifraga Cope and P. gigavtea Osborn.
Wasatch.
MESONYXi Cope.
Syn.
SyioplothermtiCope DroniocyoTv Marh.
I have elsewhere given a very full acount of the osteology of this genus and shall therefore devote but a small space to it here emphasizing especially the points in which it differs from Pachymna' The dental formula is If Ct Pf Mf.
The uper molars differ from those of Pachycena in the equal size of the paraand metacones and P is even more completely molarifbrm all three cusps being of nearly equal size.
In the lower jaw the premolars except p have assumed the niolar pattern by the addition of the paraconid and trenchant talon.
The molars differ from those of Pachycena in the reduction of the paraconid and enlargement of the talon and in the simplification of m in which the paraconid is rudimentary or absent and the talon very small.
The humerus lacks the entepicondylar foramen and has a remarkably well developed trochlea which is high thick and with very large intertrochlear 2rominence so as to resemble the corresponding part of a perissodactyl.
The ilium is like that of the bears and much more expanded than in any other known creodont.
The hind limb does not much exceed the fore limb in length.
The feet are digitigrade and tetradactyl the metapodials symmetrically arranged as in the hytena and the metacarpals very completely interlocked.
In this genus the size of the head and length of trunk are very great as compared with the length of the limbs and feet.
Three species of the genus have been described  M. obtusklens Cope Dromocyon vorax Marsh M. Syiioplotherium lanius Cope which are from the Bridger and M. ulnteiisis Scott from the Uinta a much larger species.
To these may be provisionally added a fourth which was obtained by the Princeton expedition of 1890 in the White River bad lands of South Dakota.
The specimen consists of a fore leg unfortunately not associated with teeth and therefore its reference to this genus cannot be considered final though there can be little doubt that it belongs to a member of the family.
The species may be named and described as follows TMesonyx dakotensis tp.
nov.
Size greater than that of either of the Bridger species less than 31. uintensis.
The distal end of the humerus is broader and more flat1 Proc.
Am.
Phil.
Soc 1872 p 460.
2 Loc.
cit.
p. 483  referred to Mesonyx Tert.
Vert.
p. 358.
3 Am.
Journ.
Sci.
and Arts 3d Ser. Vol.
XII 1876 p. 403.
 Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. Vol.
IX no.
2. tend thau in M. obtusidens the trochlea lower and wider with more rounded and hemispherical intertrochlear ridge  the entepicondyle is more prominent but has no foramen and the supinator ridge less so.
The ulna and radius do not differ in any important respect except size from those of the Bridger species the greater transverse breadth of the shaft of the ulna and the shorter and broader olecranon.
The manus is also constituted very much as in 31. ohtuside7is but the ulnar side of the carpus and especially the cuneiform is broader.
The metacarpals are even shorter in proportion and nic.
V more slender and displaced more to the ulnar side of the unciform.
The following measurements exhibit the proportions of the various parts of the fore limb in the two species.
lU Humerus width of trochlea Ulna length.
Ulna length olecranon.
Ulna width distal end Radius length Radius width proximal end Radiu width distal end Metacarpal II width prox.
end Metacarpal III width prox.
end.
Metacarpal IV length Metacarpal IV width prox.
end.
Metacarpal V length.
Metacarpal V width prox.
end.
This species so far as it is at present known is of no particular morphological importance but geologically it is of much interest as adding another to the increasing list of White River genera of ancient type which justify Cope's comparison of that horizon with the Oligocene of Europe.
PROVIVERRID.a Schlosser.
Syn.
Leplictid Cope in part.
Superior molars tritubercular and somewhat trenchant  paraand metacones closely approximated and with a cutting crest posterior to the latter  inferior molars with elevated trigonid forming a trenchant blade.
btsidens .
31. dakotensis.
M. M. .027 .039 .207 .208 approx.
.048 .035 .015 .015 .160 .167 approx.
.023 .030 .024 .028 .014 .008 .011 .015 .065 .060 .010 .012 .050 .051 .014 .009 DELTATHERIUMi Cope.
Syn.
LipodedesCope.
II Cr Pf Ma.
This genus has already become quite specialized through the loss of one premolar in each jaw and the complication ofp.
12 the most anterior premolar is simple compressed and with cutting edges.
1 is more pyramidal in shape and is supported by three fangs though it has no deuterocone which is well developed on P4.
The molars are triangular in shape with only a slightly thickened cingulum representing the hypocone rnj is the largest and la the smallest of the series.
The paraand metacones are somewhat aproximated and are moved mesially from the outer edge of the crown  from the metacone is given off a short curved trenchant crest which runs to the posteroexternal angle of the crown and at the anteroexternal angle there is a small parastyle  the conules are rudimentary or absent.
In 3 the metacone is rudimentary and has no posterior crest.
The anterior lower premolars are simple but lu has become almost molariform with well developed trigonid formed by the addition of the paraand deuteroconids but the heel is rudimentary.
The lower molars are very primitive the trigonid retains all the elements and the metaand paraconids are on the same fore and aft line so that there is only a beginning of a shearing blade the talon has become trenchant through loss of the entoconid.
The skull has a very long and narrow cranium with cerebral fossa of small capacity  the face is short and the orbits placed far forward much in advance of the very deep postorbital constriction  the nasals and parietals do not lie in the same plane the profile of the skull rising somewhat at the forehead  the sagittal crest is very long and high  the occiput is low and broad and the occipital crest strongly developed.
One species  D. fundaminls Cope Syn.
Lipodectes penetrans Cope.
Puerco.
SIN0PA3 LeiJy.
Syn.
Limnocyon Marsh in part Stypolophu Cope Prototomus Cope TriacoJoti Cope.
In view of the imperfect condition of Leidy's type and the meagre description which he gave of it I have hesitated long in adopting lAmer.
Naturalist 1880 p. 338.
2 Loc.
cit.
1881 p. 1019.
 Proc.
AcaH.
Nat.
Sci. 1871 p. 115.
 Am.
Journ.
Sci.
3rd Sen Vol.
IV 1872 p. 126.
5 Proc.
Am.
Phil.
Soc 1872 p. 446.
Rept.
Vert.
Foss.
New Mexico 1874 p. 13. '
Proc.
Am.
Phil.
Soc 1872 p. 460his name.
There can however be no doubt that all of the above names refer to the same generic group and I have taken the name tirst proposed though our knowledge of the structure of these forms is entirely due to Cope who has described and figured them with great fulness.
Cope separates Stypolophus from Sinopa on the ground that in the latter the last lower molar has a rudimentary talon but in this group this character is too variable to be of generic significance though of course it often is so in others.
The teeth are unreduced in number.
The anterior upper premolars are quite simple except that Ps has a small deuterocone and is implanted by three fangs.
 has the composition of the sectorial among the Car'nivora consisting of large protoand deuterocones with a small tritocone forming a trenchant blade.
But for its small size this tooth would be called a sectorial  there is also a thickening of the cingulum at the anteroexternal angle of the crown forming a minute protostyle.
The first and second upper molars are alike except in size  being the larger  they are much extended transversely the paraand metacones are closely approximated and a well developed trenchant crest runs from the latter to the posteroexternal angle of the crown which is longer and more prominent than in Deltatherium and not as in that genus continuous with the metacone but separated from it by a cleft.
The shifting of the outer cusps inward from the external margin of the crown which has already commenced in the Puerco genus is very marked in Sinopa.
The conules are rudimentary or absent but  has a minute and i a very large parastyle.
3 is much reduced especially in the anteroposterior direction having lost the metacone while the paracone has moved inward nearly to the middle of the crown.
The inferior premolars are simple  p is very small singlerooted and isolated by a diastema both in front of and behind it  the other premolars are twofanged and form acute compressed cones p is without accessory cusps p has a small posterior and p both anterior and posterior basal cusps.
M is conspicuously smaller than the others but has the same construction  the trigonid is very high especially the jrotoconid  the paraconid is more on the same fore and aft line with the protoconid than in Deltatherium and the two together form a correspondingly more efficient shearing blade the talon is much reduced especially in m but retains its basin shape formed by the hypoand entoconids  the hypoconulid is lost.
In the  Tertiary Vertebrata p. 289. o skull we observe the loug narrow cranium which has but small cerebral capacity with very marked post orbital constriction prominent sagittal and occipital crests and long zygomatic arches.
The roof of the cranium and that of the face lie in nearly the same plane  the face is short and tapering  the anterior nares are terminal in position and overhung by the tips of the nasals which project beyond the premaxillaries.
The mandible is long and slender with very broad ascending ramus and high recurved and blunt coronoid process the masseteric fossa is very large and deep and the angular process long and prominent.
The neck is of moderate length the lumbar vertebrae stout with well developed anapophyes and the tail long.
The astragalus is nearly flat in some species moderately grooved in others it has a long neck with rounded narrow head which displays a small facet for the cuboid.
The calcaneura has a long and slender tuber ealcis and a small sustentaculum and above the distal end is considerably expanded as in the plantigrade carnivores.
The cuboid is very high and narrow  the calcaneal facet is transverse and the astragalar narrow and oblique.
The carpus is low and the scaphoid and lunar separate.
Sliiopa is very abundantly represented in the Wasatch and Bridger not less than thirteen species having been described ranging in size from a weasel to a fox.
S. rapax Leidy S. Limnocyon verus Marsh and S. Limnocyo7i agilis Marsh S. Sfypolophus jnmgens Cope S. Stypolophus inseetivorus Cope S. Sfypolophus brevlcalearatus Cope and S. Trlacodon Sfypolophus aculeatus Cope are from the Bridger  S. Prototomus Stypolophus viverrinus Cope S. Prototomus Sfypolophus secundarius Cope S. Prototonms Sfypolophus nndtkmspis Cope S. Prototomus Sfypolophus sfrenuus Cope and S. Sfypolophus hlans Cope are from the Wasatch while S. ivhitice Cope Stypolophis sfrenuus Cope in part Sfypolophus whifice Cope has been found in the Wasatch and Wind River beds.
Sinopa exlmia Leidy probably does not belong to this genus and Schlosser has referred it to the Primates.
Lhnnocyon riparms' Marsh likewise must be removed from the genus as in it m and  are described as being tubercular. '
Cont.
to Ext.
Vert Fauna of Western Territories p. 118.
 Am.
Journ.
of Sci.
and Arts 3rd Ser. Vol.
IV p. 203.
PEOVIVEERAi Rutimeyer.
This genus is very similar to Sinopa differing from it only in the structure of the last upper premolar Pj which is as simply constructed as in Deltatheriuvi and consists of a triangular trenchant protocone a large conical deuterocone with no trace of either tritocone or protostyle.
To this European genus may be provisionally referred a species from the Bridger beds 
P. americamis sp.
nov. Syn.
Sinopa rapax Osborn Scott and Speir non Leidy which differs from its European congener merely in size so far as the very imperfect specimen will admit of comparison.
The specimen consists only of a jaw fragment containing P3 d  which may possibly represent a Bridger species of Didelphodus but the general fades of the tooth agrees better with Proviverra.
The dimensions of P4 are ant.
post diameter 7 mm. transverse 7 mm.
DIDELPH0DTIS3 Cope.
Syn.
Deltatheriitni Cope in part.
This genus resembles Proviverra in the structure of the teeth especially of P4 but appears to have lost Pi giving the formula I Ct P'I mi.
From Sinopa it differs in the simple caninelike shape of 2 the presence of a deuterocone on P3 and of a corresponding element on p and the less reduction of 3.
An important difference from both genera consists in the much less pronounced development of the posterior cutting crest on the upper molars.
The premolars are all notably high and acute.
One species  D. Deltatherium absarokoi Cope.
Wasatch.
PALffiONICTID.
Syn.
AmbloctonidcB Cope.
Superior molars without or with only rudimentary posterior cutting ridge paraand metacones very high and pointed and well separated  inferior molars with reduced talon and well developed nietaconid  protoand paraconids enlarged flattened and forming an efficient sectorial blade.
Face much shortened.
PAL50NICTIS de Blainville.
The discovery of this genus by Wortman in the Wasatch beds in 1891 is one of very great interest and importance both geologically  Eocjine Saugethiere p. 80.
2 Pal.
Rept.
of the Princeton Scientific Expedition of 1877 p. 18.
3 Amer.
Naturalist 1882 p. 463.
 O.iieographie Viverra p. 76. and morphologically.
The advance sheets of Osborn and Wortman's paper enable me to give a brief account of it here.
The dental formula is If Cx PI M.
The superior premolars increase regularly in size from before backward.
f is small simple and onerooted  P2 is also small and has an incipient deuterocone represented by an elevated and crenulate internal cingulum  on Pa d  the deuterocone is distinct and supported on a separate fang  p has three external cusps a high protocone a smaller tritocone which forms a trenchant heel and a small protostyle  the tooth thus has all the elements of the feline sectorial i is large and strictly trigonodont  the cusps are all very high and acute the paraand metacones show no tendency to coalesce and there is no posterior trenchant crest given off from the metacone.
2 is very small a mere oval rudiment with no distinguishable elements.
The anterior lower premolars all have a compressed pointed and trenchant protoconid and a small posterior basal cusp and p has an anterior cusp in addition.
In the molars the protoand paraconids are flattened brought into nearly the same anteroposterior line and form an efficient shearing blade but retaining a well developed metaconid  the talon is small and basinshaped and on m very much reduced.
The cranium is long and the face much shortened  the orbits are large and situated far forward  the anterior nares are very large and the muzzle abruptly truncated.
The mandible has a short deep and massive horizontal ramus and a very broad ascending ramus which terminates in a blunt coronoid  the chin is abruptly rounded and the symphysis short.
The physiognomy of this skull is strikingly feline in character.
One American species  P. occidentalis Osborn  Wasatch.
AMBLOCTONUSi Cope.
The only known specimens of this genus are so much mutilated that an accurate account of it cannot be given.
According to Osborn the dental formula is P ML The external upper incisor is much enlarged and the canines are of great size.
 is triangular in shape with veiy large deuterocone a trenchant tritocone and a small protostyle.
 differs from that of Palceonictis in the reduction 1 Syst.
Cat.
Vert.
Eocene of New Mexico U. S. Geog.
Surv.
W. of 100th Mer. 1875 p. 7.
 Loc.
cit.
of the protocone tlie close approximation of the paraand metacones and the elevation at the posteroe.xternal angle of the crown simulating the trenchant ridge of the Proviverridce and Hycenodontidce.
This tooth strongly suggests a doubt as to the propriety of referring this genus to the present family which cannot be decided until more perfect specimens are obtained.
P is very nearly molariform but does not appear to have a deuteroconid.
The composition of m cannot be determined while in appears to have lost the metaconid and the talon is rudimentary or absent.
One species  A. sinosus Cope Wasatch.
PATRIOFELISi Leidy.
Syn.
Limnofelh''Marsh in part Oreocyon Marsh.
Only the inferior dentition is known  the dental formula appears to be  It Ct Ps M2.
The premolars are very massive and hyaenalike and have a posterior basal cusp.
P is the largest of all the cheekteeth i. e. in the type species and is nearly molariform.
M appears to have a large sectorial blade and a talon and ni2 which is larger to have neither metaconid nor talon.
The mandible is quite feline in shape but the horizontal ramus is relatively heavier and the masseteric fossa not so deep  the ascending ramus is not so broad as in Paldeonidis indicating a shorter cranium and zygomatic arches.
The type species is P. tdta Leidy Limnofells Oreocyon latidens Marsh from the Bridger.
A second species also from the Bridger is referred to this genus provisionally P.
leidyanus Wortman but the compressed character of the teeth renders the reference very doubtful.
HYNODONTID.
Syn.
OxyeznidcB Cope.
Paraand metacones of superior molars connat6 or indistinguishably fused and posterior trenchant blade very large protocone reduced or absent.
Talon of inferior molars and metaconid reduced or absent on one or more teeth  protoand paraconids enlarged and flattened forniinor a shearinj blade.
The members of this family form one of the most aberrant of the creodont groups and display a great many stages in the reduction 1 Proc.
Acid.
Nat.
Sci.. lS7l p. lt.
2 Amer.
Journ.
Sci.
and Arts 3rd Ser. Vol.
IV 1872 p. 203.
'Loc.
cit. p. 4U6.
21 and simplification of the molar teeth so that the fiimily definition can be framed only in the most general terms.
On tlie other hand the succession of the genera is so close and the steps of change so gradual tluit it seems impracticable to subdivide the group unless each genus be given family rank.
The connection of this group with the Proviverridce is very close and the line of separation between them arbitrary rather than natural.
OXYNAi Cope.
If Ct P M.
The incisors are small except h which is very large and separated by a diastema from the great tusklike canine.
1 is small and single rooted  tlie other premolars increase in size and complexity posteriorly  P2' 3 have developed the deuterocone and P4 is a well developed sectorial with very large deuterocone and trenchant tritocone which with the protocone forms a very effective shearing blade nearly as large as the first molar.
M is the exaggeration of a condition already found in Sinopa and its allies tbe protocone is somewhat reduced the paraand metacones very closely approximated and the posterior cutting crest greatly enlarged forming a sectorial blade.
Mj is transversely extended and very short anteroposteriorly  it appears to consist of a small paracone and very broad protocone.
In the lower jaw pi is one rooted  p2 and 3 have high protoconids and low pointed talons  p is similar but larger and the heel is trenchant.
The molars consist of a sectorial blade formed by the enlarged and flattened protoand paraconids with a well developed metaconid  the talon is low small and basinlike with continuous margin.
The relative size of the molars varies  in some cases ni is the larger and in others in.
The researches of Cope and latterly those of Osborn and Wortman have given us almost a full account of the skeleton of this curious genus.
The skull is quite feline in appearance with short face broad and truncate muzzle and large anterior nares the zygomatic arches are prominent heavy and moderately long and the jugal sends up a strong postorbital process partially enclosing the orbit.
There is a long and prominent sagittal crest and the cranial walls are thick.
The posterior thoracic and lumbar vertebrse display the creodont type of zygapophyses and the tail is long and stout.
1 Rep. Vert.
Foss.
N. M. U. S. Geog.
Surv.
W. of 10ith Mer. 1874 p. 11.
The humerus has tuberosities of no great size but the deltoid ridge is remarkably long and prominent  the trochlea is low but broad and has a rounded surface for the capitellum of the radius the entepicondyle is relatively small but retains the foramen.
The head of the radius is discoidal and the distal end is expanded and bears a carpal facet which is very feline in shape.
The distal end of the ulna has also very much the same form as in the cats.
The carpus is low and broad with separate scaphoid lunar and central elements.
The metacarpals five in number are stiikingly small and weak as compared with the size of the skull and teeth  they are however interlocked in the same elaborate manner as in the cats.
The phalanges are depressed and the unguals small compressed and clawlike but cleft at the free end.
The pelvis differs from that of the typical creodonts in having an expanded ilium and wide flattened ischium.
The femur has a wide and flat proxfmal end and prominent first trochanter but the digital fossa is small and shallow.
The tibia has abroad overhanging head and the shaft is deeply grooved on its posterior face  the astragalar surface is nearly flat and the inner malleolus prominent.
The astragalus has a very slightly grooved trochlea large neck and convex head which is directed obliquely inward  distally there is a facet for the cuboid.
The calcaneum is short and heavy and especially remarkable for the great obliquity of thecuboidal surface.
The navicular is broad and very shallow and is obliquely placed with reference to the axis of the foot.
The cuboid is a remarkable bone and its shape is characteristic of the entire family  the proximal surface is unequally divided between a large surface for the calcaneum and a smaller one for the astragalus which meet at right angles  this gives the cuboid a very oblique position and causes the axes of this bone and of the navicular to form an acute angle instead of being parallel.
This divergence is to some extent compensated by the very large wedgeshaped ectocuneiform.
The position of the tarsals here described produces a divergent radiating arrangement of the metatarsals which like the metacarpals are all present but are weak and slender.
Three species  0. forcipata Cope 0. lupina Cope and 0. morsitans Cope.
Wasatch.
PROTOPSALIS Cope.i Syn.

Liunofeiis Marsh.
The name Limnofelis is of older date than Protqpsalis but was founded upon such imperfect specimens that no generic characters can be derived from them.
The probability that both name refer to the same thing is given by the fact that both are very large animals referable to the Hycenodontidce and occurring in the Bridger beds.
The number of teeth in this genus is not known  an anterior lower molar mi 
resembles that of Oxycena having a nietaconid and fairly large basinshaped heel m
however is strikingly like the inferior sectorial of the cats except for the greater height and narrowness of the protoconid  the metaconid has disappeared and the talon is a minute rudiment.
The skeleton so far as it is known closely resembles that of Oxycena but the bones are much larger more massive and with more prominent processes for muscular attachment.
The cuboid is very peculiar  the calcaneal surface is even larger and more oblique than in Oxyccna and is slightly convex while the astragalar facet which in the Wasatch genus is nearly plane is in Protopsalis deciiledly concave from before backward.
The metapodials are relatively stouter than in Oxycena.
One species  P. tigrinus Cope Syn.

Limnofelis Jerox Marsh.
Bridger.
HEMIPSAL0D0N3 Cope.
This the largest of known creodonts is nearly allied to Pterodon but distinguishable from it by the character of ni which in the latter has a rudimentary trenchant heel but in the former the talon is larger and basinshaped with continuous margin as in Oxycena  the metaconid is probably absent.
This is the only molar the construction of which is known but the number of teeth in the mandible is known to be  I3 Ct P
M3.
The canine is exceedingly powerful and the jaw very mas.ive  the chin is deep and abruptly rounded and the symphysis very long extending to p.
The femur is very like that of Protopsalis but has a much longer neck and small hemispherical head  the second and third trochanters are not very prominent and the latter is 2laced low down on the shaft  the 1 Amtr Naturalist.
1880 p 745.
2 Am.
Joitrn.
Sci.
and Arts 3rrl Ser. Vol.
IV 1872 p. 202. '
Amer.
Naturalist 1885 p. lt3. rotiilar trochlea is short and narrow and the condyles differ from those usually found among creodouts in being closer together of more unequal size and projecting more strongly backward.
One species  H. grandis Cope from the White River beds of the Cypress Hills N. W. Territory Canada.
HY.SN0D0N Laiser  Parieu.
The dental formula of this genus is If Ct Pt M.
The upper premolars have high acute and simple crowns except p4 which has both deuteroand tritocones though they are considerably reduced as compared with those in Plerodon and Oxycena.
The upper molars are greatly simplified by the entire loss of the protocone and the fusion of the pai'aand metacones though they can still be distinguislied on   the posterior crest on the other hand is greatly developed and thus these teeth form effective sectorials 2 is considerably the larger of the two.
The inferior premolars are likewise simple having in addition to the very high and acute protoconid a more or less well developed posterior cusp.
iVP is much the smallest of the series and consists of protoand paraconids with a rudimentary talon the metaconid having disappeared  in m the talon is still further reduced  the protoand paraconids form a trenchant blade m is still larger and has no trace of the talon  it closely resembles m' of the cats.
The skull is typically creodont with some remarkable specializations.
The cranium is long narrow of small capacity and with very marked postorbital constriction  the face is rather short and the large orlits placed very far forward  the upper contour of the skull is nearly straight parietals and nasals lying in nearly the same plane.
The occiput is low and broad with small paroccipital processes closely applied to the still smaller paramastoids.
The frontals enclose large sinuses.
The nasal chamber is very high and in consequence the mesethmoid is even larger than in the carnivorous marsupials  the vomer is likewise very long and high and the ethmoturbinals are well developed and complexly folded.
The jugal is rather slender and is applied to the maxillary quite close to the level of the molars.
The palate is very remarkable  the palatines are much elongated and in contact almost throughout their length forming a tube which opens far back as a narrow slit between the hinder end of the palatines and pterygoids  in one species H. leptocephalus the opening is pushed still farther back by the junction of the pterygoid plates of the alisphenoids.
The cranial foramina are very much as in the dogs but there appears to be one important and constant difference between the American and European species of the genus in that the latter possess an alisphenoid canal which the former have not.
In the American forms the .
horizontal ramus of the mandible is long and slender gradually deepening posteriorly and forming a very long symphysis with its fellow  the coronoid is more or less triangular in shape and the condyle is placed very low  the angle terminates in a short hook.
The skeleton which is very conpletely known differs from that of Oxycena only in details and need not be described here farther than to mention the large articulation between the fibula and the calcaneum.
The American hyanodonts have the scaphoid lunar and central bones all separate while in the European species they are coalesced.
Four American species of Hycenodon have been described  H. horridas Leidy H. crucians Leidy.
H. cruevtns Leidy H. leptocephalus Scott all from the White River.
MIACIDJE Cope.
Fourth upper premolar and first lower molar forming the single pair of sectorials  superior molars tritubercular inferior molars except m also tubercular.
The members of this family which form the connecting link between the Creodonta and the Carnivora so far at least as their dentition is concerned are unfortunately as yet very imperfectly known no complete skull or well reserved feet having been discovered.
DIDYMICTISi Cope.
I Ct pi Ml.
The anterior upper premolars are simple compressed and trenchant cones without accessory cusps but P4 is a fully developed sectorial the protoand tritocones forming the blade  the protostyle which occurs in the cats and viverrines is also indicated.
M is quite large with the three primary cusps present though the raetacone is much reduced and the metaconule has disappeared and there is no hypocone  the anteroexternal angle oi the crown is greatly extended and there is a very broad cingulum.
1 Syst.
Cat.
Vert.
Eocene N. M. U. S. Geogr.
Surv.
W. IdOth Mar. 1875 p. 11.
M is much smaller tbau m and in some species is greatly reduced  it is of simple tritubercular pattern without hypocone or conules.
The lower premolars are much compressed and have posterior cusps.
Ml has an extremely high trigonid which however forms but a primitive sectorial blade as the paraconid retains its internal position and the protoconid is but little enlarged except in height conspicuously exceeding in this respect the other two cusps which are of nearly equal size.
Consequent on this arrangement the shearing surface is anterior rather than external  the talon is low and basinshaped.
 is very much smaller than i and has a tubercular crown but as Cope has pointed out this tooth is clearly derived from a tuberculosectorial all the elements of the trigonid being still preserved as small but acute cusps which rise slightly above the level of the talon.
The skull so far as it is known is of the ordinary creodont type with short tapering face orbits far forward and deep postorbital constriction.
The mandible has a long and narrow horizontal ramus with very narrow symphyseal portion.
The lumbar vertebrae have the creodont type of zygapophyses  the metapophyses and anapophyses are small.
The humerus has small tuberosities a wide bicipital groove and very prominent deltoid ridge  an entepicondylar foramen is present.
The ulna has the very high olecranon so general among creodonts the sigmoid notch is deep but the humeral facet small the shaft is very broad.
The radius has a transversely oval head which occupies most of the humeral trochlea.
The carpus is very low the scaphoid and lunar separate and the unciform shaped as in the viverrines e. g. Arciictis.
The pollex is short and relatively rather stout the other metacarpals much more slender though proportionately much weaker the general character of the metacarpals and phalanges is quite like that in the viverrines and the interlocking of the metacarpals is similar.
No.
II touching the magnum and No.
Ill the unciform though not by extended surfaces.
The ungual phalanges are compressed and sharp and very like those of Cynogale without the cleft at the tips which occurs in nearly all creodonts.
The ilium is short and prismatic.
The femur has a slender compressed shaft and a very large 2nd and small but distinct ord trochanter.
The tibia is long and slender Avith gentle sigmoid curvature  the astragalar surface is but obscurely grooved and the large malleolar process has an articular surface upon the distal end.
The astragalus in some species is slightly grooved in others not at all the neck is long the head narrow and not articulating with the cuboid.
The calcaneum is short and stout with very small sustentaculum and prominent process for the cubocalcaneal ligament.
The cuboid is like that of Cynogale but is without the distinct excavation for the navicular.
Tlie metatarsals probably five in number are very slender and interlocked much as in the viverrines.
Eight species D. lidydemmms Cope and D. primus Cope are from the Puerco  D. jyrotenus Cope D. leptomylas Cope D. dawkinsianus Cope D. massetericxis Cope and D. curtldens Cope are from the Wasatch while D. aliidens Cope is from the Wasatch and Bridger.
MIACISi Cope.
Syn.

Vulpavits'Marsh Uintacyori Leicly.
Vulpavus is an older name than Miacis but being founded solely upon the upper tubercular molars it cannot be used for the exact generic reference of the tubercular molars is at present impracticable.
The dental formula of the mandible is  Ir Ct Pt M3.
The incisors are closely crowded together and the second one is pushed back out of the Hue of the other two.
P is single rooted and in some species is isolated by a diastema both in front of and behind it in others the dental series is uninterrupted.
In mi the trigonid is of moderate height and through the flattening of the protoconid a more efficient sectorial blade is formed than in Dldymictis  the talon is basinlike with distinct hypoand entoconids.
M is a  tubercular  molar but retains all the elements of m.
M is very small and is sometimes implanted by one fang sometimes by two.
The mandible the only known portion of the skull varies from the long and slender jaw of 3.
edax to the relatively short deep and thick jaw of il.
hathygnaihus with its steeply inclined and abruptly rounded chin  the masseteric fossa is deep and the angular process a short hook.
A few skeletal fragments of M. bathygnaihus have been found but as the relations of that species to the others are very far from clear the description of these will be omitted.
Six species  31. parvlvorus Cope M. Ulntacyon' edax Leidy M.  Uintacyon vorax Leidy and 3L hathygnatlius Scott are from the Bridger horizon.
M. canavus Cope has been found in the Wasatch 1 Proc.
Am.
Phil.
Soc.
lH72.
p. 470.
2 Am.
Journ.
Soc.
and Arts 3rH Sen Vol.
TI 1871 p. 124.
3 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
1872 1873 p. 277.
Proc.Acad.Nat.Sci.Phila.
1892.
Plate XI Geo.S.HaiTrisSoiiB LithPhila.. CHAPMAN BRAIN OF GORILLA.
Proc.Acad.Nat.Sci.Phila.
1892.
Plate Xn ijeo.3 HaiTTisSoivfl LitKPkfla.
CHAPMAN BRAIN OF GORILLA.
PL.
XIII.
Pllibry del.
PILSBRY ANATOMY OF SAGDA CYSTICOPSIS ETC.
and Wind River and M. brevirostris only in the latter beds.
A very doubtful species is the 
M. 
Ampliicyoii vulpinus Scott and Osborn from the Uinta Eocene which is too imperfectly known for certain reference.
VIVERRAVUSi Marsh.
This genus is very inadequately known but appears to differ from the other members of the family in the mandibular formula  P3 MfM2 and 3 are tubercular but the trigonid retains all three cusps and rises considerably above the level of the talon.
The premolars are much compressed and the mandible long and slender.
Three species  F. gracilis Marsh  
V. nitidus Marsh V. Limnocyoii riparius Marsh  Bridger.
THIN0CY0N2 Marsh.
Not improbably this genus is identical with the preceding one.
The mandibular formula is given as  I Cx Ps M  m and are tubercular and the angle of the mandible is said to be reflected.
One species  T. velox Marsh Bridger.
Genera Incert Sedis.
Under this head will be discussed a number of forms which have been referred to the Creodonta but the nature of which is very problematical.
MIOCLiENUSs Cope.
In his latest paper on the Puerco fauna Cope refers to this genus no less than twentysix species which range in size from that of a black bear to that of a squirrel.
The presence in one horizon and locality of so many species of a single genus and with so great a range of size is on the face of it highly improbable and I believe the genus as at present constituted to be an unnatural one.
For structural reasons I have subdivided the group into many genera some of which have been described above and others remain to be mentioned.
The name Mioclcemis should be restricted to those forms which agree with the type species M. turgidus in the extremely broad low and massive premolars which equal or exceed the molars in size  these are  M. turgidus Cope M. opisthacus Cope M. zitte1 Amer.
Journ.
Sci.
and Arts 2nd Ser. Vol.
IV 1872 p. 127.
2 Loc.
cit. p. 204.
3 Amer.
Naturalist 1881 p. 830.
22 lianus Cope and 3f.
turgidunculus Cope all from the Puerco.
The systematic position of the genus is very doubtful for such premolars are quite unknown among the creodonts and are entirely like those of the condylarthrous family Pertjiicwdoe.
Indeed if.
opisthaciis was at one time referred to Hemithlceiis.
On the other hand the structure of the molars is quite different from that of any of the typical Condylarthra and if as Schlosser has suggested it becomes necessary to refer Mioclcenus to that group it will form a very distinct family of the order.
PEOTOGONODON gen. nov. Syn.
MiodcEnus Cope in part.
To this genus I refer as a type species the M. pentacus which Cope provisionally incorporated with Iliocloenus though directing attention to the resemblance of its inferior molars superior unknown to those of the phenacodont Protogonia from which it differs in the simplicity of p which has no deuteroconid.
Certain specimens however show rudimentary indications of it.
I think there can be no doubt that this genus is referable to the Phenacodontidce.
A second species P. Mioclcenus lydekkerianus the structure of p in which is not known probably belongs to the same genus.
Puerco.
PARADOXODON gen. nov. Syn.
Chriacus Cope in part.
This curious form the systematic position of which is altogether uncertain is known only from inferior molars though the alveoli of the premolars indicate that these teeth were extremely compressed and recall in their proportions those of the primitive artlodactyls  the molars also suggest relationship to that group.
The latter increase in size from the first to the third and the trigonid rises very little above the talon.
In mTi the protoand metaconids are of about the same size and on the some transverse line  they are both compressed and the protoconid shows a tendency to become crescentic  the small paraconid is placed immediately in front of the metaconid from which it is separated by a slight notch while a low ridge connects it with the protoconid  the hypoconid is also somewhat crescentic the entoconid lower and more conical.
In m the trigonid is curiously asymmetrical which is caused by the backward inclination of the metaconid the larger size of the paraconid than 1 Tert.
Vert. p. 407. in ml and the greater prominence of the ridge connecting this element with the protoconid  the hypoconid is somewhat crescentic and the entoconid reduced the valley opening inward in advance of that cusp  the hypoconulid is much enlarged and carried on a distinct fang.
It would require but relatively little alteration to convert this tooth into one of true selenodont pattern.
One species  P.  Chriacus rutimeyeranus Cope.
Puerco.
CARCINODON gen. nov. Syn.
Mioclcenus Cope in part.
This genus is almost certainly unguiculate bnt whether creodont or insectivorous is not clear the character of the lower molar teeth somewhat resembling those of the Wasatch Diacodon.
P and  have high and pointed protoconids and minute posterior basal cusps.
The inferior molars increase in size posteriorly and when viewed from the side the trigonid is seen to curve forward and the talon backward which gives the crown a clawlike shape.
The protoand metaconids are joined for most of their height and of equal size and the small but elevated paraconid is placed close to the latter but connected with the former by a crest  the talon is a deep basin with elevated margin upon which the hypoand entoconids and the hypoconulids appear as small tubercles.
In m these elements especially the latter are enlarged.
One species  C. Mioclcenus filJwlianus Cope.
Puerco.
The species Mioclcenus Beltathernmi interruptus Cope 3L minimus Cope and 31.
Hyopsodus acolylus Cope should for reasons already stated be removed from that genus but are too imperfectly known for proper reference.
The latter M. acohjtus may possibly be a forerunner of the Wasatch artiodactyl Pantolestes.
Another group of problematical genera is that constituted by Onychodectes Cope Conoryctes' Cope and Hemiganus Cope which are distinguished among other things by the remarkable thinness of the enamel which covers the molars.
It is probable that these forms should be removed from the creodonts and as Cope has suggested brought into relation with the tillodonts.
1 Trans.
Am.
Phil.
Soc Vol.
XVI Pt.
II p. 317.
2 Proc.
Am.
Phil.
Soc 1881 p. 486.
3 Amer.
Naturalist 1882 p. 831.
