DESCRIPTION OF A LOWER JAW OF Tetrabelodon SHEPARDII Leidy.
BY E. D. COPE.
This species has been known hitherto by a third inferior molar only.
This has been described or figured at the following places of reference  Mastodon shepardii Leidy Proc.
Acad.
Philadelphia 1870 p. 98 1872 p. 472.
Cope American Naturalist 1884 p. 524.
Dibelodon shepardii Cope Proc.
Amer.
Philosoph.
Soc 1884 p. 5 partim.
Mastodon observus Leidy partim Report U. S. Geological Survey Terrs.
I p. 330 PI.
XXI 1873.
A lower jaw of this species lacking the condyles and supporting the second and third true molars was taken from the bluff in Crosby County Texas from the same excavation that yielded the Pliauchenia sjatula Cope and within fifty feet of that at which the tooth of the Dibelodon praecursor was obtained.
It came into possession of Mr. M. M. Cox of Estacado from whom I obtained it by purchase after my return from Texas.
The acquisition of this specimen is important as enabling me to determine the true characters of the species.
Besides the last inferior molar Leidy has referred to it provisionally a fragment of a tusk which like the molar came from California.
The second true molars are much worn but they show as was to have been expected from the chaiacter of the third molar only three crosscrests without a rudimental fourth.
The third true molar exhibits exactly the simple characters of the typical specimen described by Leidy  that is it has four well separated crosscrests and a very rudimental heel.
The external half of each crosscrest wears into a trefoil while the internal half is simple and undivided and is a little anterior in position to the external half.
The tooth continues its width posteriorly so that the transverse diameters at the first and fourth crosscrests are equal.
A marked character of the species is the elevation of the anterior part of the ramus and the decurvature of the symphysis from which it results that the superior face of the symphysis or the spout descends very steeply to its extremity from the second true molar quite as in the proximal part of the spout of Dinotherium
It has a very short horizontal portion anterior to the second true molar to represent the long horizontal production in Dibelodon tropicus Mastodon americanus etc.
The symphysis is also much compressed above so that the spout is narrow.
The extremity of the spout is produced and contracted and slightly recurved at the extremity and there issues from the right side a well developed vertically compressed mandibular tusk.
On the left side is the empty alveolus of its counterpart which was of much larger diameters than that of the right side.
The portions of superior tusks found in California are stated by Leidy to possess an enamel band.
As there are mandibular tusks I refer the species to Tetrabelodon rather than to Dibelodon as heretofore.
The contracted symphysis steeply descending forward and expanding downward at the base from a posterior elevation distinguishes this species from any of those of the genera Tetrabelodon Dibelodon or Mastodon known to me.
Hence there is no question of its difference from T.productus Cope with which it was identified by Leidy 1 where the symphysis is flat and much longer.
In Dibelodon cordillerantm according to D'Orbigny and Burmeister the symphysis is not elevated behind is produced and decurved at the extremity and has a wide spout  all characters quite different from what is seen in T. shepardii
The symphysis is totally distinct in D. tropicus where it is toothless and not decurved and the last true molar is much more complex in the latter.
I formerly identified the species so abundant in the Equus Beds of the valley of Mexico with this species.
This determination must now be reconsidered since the form of the mandibular symphysis is entirely different  there is no mandibular tusk and the last lower molar is not identical in form 2 though I formerly thought it not so different as to preclude the possibility of the species being identical did no other differences exist.
The differences observed in this tooth may however be of specific value.
The relative width of the crown is greater especially anteriorly and the lateral borders of the latter are not parallel as in T. shepardiibut converge posteriorly as in M. precursor.
The lobes of the crosscrests are opposite as in the latter species.
From M. praecnrsor this tooth differs in the more tubercular and less crestlike character of the crosscrests and in their more profound division on the median line especially in the third and fourth crests.
M. praecursor is zygolo1 By reference to it of specimens of T. productus from Santa Fe New Mexico in Report U. S. Geol.
Surv.
Terrs.
I 1873 p. 5. '
Proceeds.
Am.
Philos.
Soc 1884 p. 5. phodont while the Mexican species is bunolophodont.
The various characters just mentioned also distinguish M. praecursor from T. shepardii
There is no evidence that the Mexican species possesses an enamel band on the superior incisors.
My assertion to this effect was based on a specimen which presents this character which is preserved in the Esquela das Minas of Mexico.
This specimen came from Tehuichila in the State of Vera Cruz from a formation which I subsequently determined to be of Loup Fork age so that the identity of the species with that found in the Equus beds of the valley of Mexico is highly improbable.
I therefore refer the latter to the genus Mastodon under the specific name of M. oligobunis Cope.
It differs from Dibelodon tropicus in the smaller number of crosscrests of the last molar and their greater simplicity since they are not divided at all and the external halves of the first and second only have anterior and posterior buttresses in some of the individuals at least.
3 Measurements of T. shepardii
J r M M  Length of right ramus and symphysis 730 Length of right ramus to symphysis 515 Depth of ramus at posterior end of M. iii 135 Deptfrof ramus at anterior end of M. ii 175 Width across both rami at posterior end of M. iii 420 Width of right ramus at posterior end of M. iii 140 Width of both rami at base of symphysis 214 Width of spout at proximal end 65 Width of distal extremity of symphysis 120 Length of spout 215 .
  ..anteroposterior 125 Diameters of M. n   .  .
transverse at middle 75 .
   ... anteroposterior 164 DiametersotM.ini r .  .transverse at middle 75 Diameters of right symphyseal tusk j vertlcal 68 transverse 27 Diameters left symphyseal alveolus j vertical 78 .transverse 45 3 A figure of this tooth is given by Felix in Paleontographica Vol.
xxxvii pi.
301891.
A CONTRIBUTION TO THE FLORA OF GREENLAND.
BY WILLIAM E. MEEHAN.
Early in 1891 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia endorsed Lieutenant Peary's proposition to explore Northern Greenland and organized the West Greenland Expedition under the leadership of Professor Angelo Heilprin to take the explorer and his party to the spot chosen for their winter quarters.
Dr. William H. Burk one of the Associate Editors of the Public Ledger was appointed botanist of the escorting party.
The two expeditions left Brooklyn on June 6th 1891 in the steam whaler  Kite  and reached McCormick Bay in latitude 77 43' about the 29th of July.
Here Mr. Peary and his party were left in a comfortable frame structure which was erected on landing and which is known in the annals of the expedition as the  Red Cliff House.
The plants collected by Dr. Burk had barely been determined at the Academy when there were indications that another expedition might be sent to the same region and it was thereupon decided not to list the plants till the second collection should have been made.
Lieutenant Peary had made his own arrangements to return and events showed that he might perhaps have been able to carry out his plans  but the rumors of possible disaster led to a search expedition.
This was also placed in charge of Professor Angelo Heilprin who had before demonstrated his capabilities for that position and the writer like Dr. Burk a member of the editorial staff of the Public Ledger was accepted as Botanist.
The Kite was again chartered for the expedition that left St. Johns Newfoundland on the afternoon of July 5th 1892.
It reached the Island of Disco on the evening of July 14th and anchored before the settlement of Godhavn the capital of the Northern Inspectorate of South Greenland where the party remained until the evening of the 16th.
Collections of plants were made by the writer here and subsequently at the following points farther north and south  Upernavik Cape York Wostenholm Island McCormick Bay about the abandoned Etah Eskimos settlement near Littleton Island Sontag Bay Robertsons Bay Nunatak in the Verhceff Glacier the borders of Inglefield Gulf table land of Greenland near McCormick Bay and Godthaab the capital of the Southern Inspectorate of South Greenland.
Dr. Burk's collections were made at Godhavn Upernavik Duck Islands Cape York and McCormick Bay.
The range of territory covered by the writer and Dr. Burk therefore was between about latitude 63 and above 78 or between Godthaab and Littleton Island.
In the catalogue prepared a copy of which with remarks is appended those which were collected only by Dr. Burk are so stated as also are those collected only by the writer.
As nearly the whole collection was repeated by each collector it may be taken as a fairly complete flora of that portion of the territory of Greenland.
Before starting in their respective journeys both Dr. Burk and the writer were instructed to examine as far as possible the influence of ice sheets on the geographical distribution of plants.
Professor Thomas Meehan the father of the latter in a  Catalogue of Plants collected in July 1883 during an Excursion along the Pacific Coast in Southeastern Alaska  x had given reasons for believing that plants did not merely advance in the wake of retreating glaciers or push into growth from material brought down in their advance but that when caught under the mass of flowing ice would remain for an indefinite period retaining vitality and push again into growth when the ice retreated.
Professor Meehan was led to this conclusion from finding no annual plants among those collected in the immediate wake of retreating glaciers in Alaska while the actual number of species of perennials collected in such locations would be as great as if much time had been given for a floral advance.
He had but little opportunity for actual observation as to the plants brought down with the earth carried on the ice but so far as this went only Epilobium latifolium and Dryas octopetela were found in this condition and scarcely any plants were observed on recently deposited moraines.
These and some other facts led to the hypothesis that the plants were not migratory but had held their position through the whole icy period.
The writer believes he has added to these facts by the determination of the existence of much the same flora in isolated spots of land recently bared by the neve of the inland ice as grow away from the margins of the ice sheet while the finding of living willow trunks grass and perennial plants of many years growth close to the edges 1 Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philada. 18S4.
of retreating glaciers seem to place the point beyond any reasonable doubt especially when after careful survey through the construction and positions of the glaciers there was the absolute certainty that the plants could not have been deposited by lateral medial or terminal moraines though they might have been by ground moraines  a circumstance which would settle Professor Meehan's position affirmatively beyond dispute since the ground moraines are borne under the flowing ice rivers.
Abundant vegetation was also found in nunataks  peaks of land projecting above the glaciers or ice cap  but little significance was placed on this circumstance since all such nunataks visited were within a reasonably close proximity to the main land masses and the vegetation might readily have sprung from seeds blown there by the winds or brought by mud on the feet of birds.
But the demonstration of aged living plants in the other situations named must have a strong bearing on the discussions involved as to the influence of the ice age on the distribution of plants over the surface of the earth.
The abundance of lichens is characteristic of the flora of Greenland.
Rocks supposed from a distance to be naturally colored are found on closer inspection to derive their hue from a complete investiture of some lichen.
In this particular the crimson cliffs beginning at Cape York and extending many miles northward are a conspicuous example.
These cliffs rising sheer from the water's edge to heights of from seventeen hundred to two thousand feet or more though of gray granite show no spot of the intrinsic color even on being nearly approached but present a uniform red appearance over their whole surface from a large orange red lichen which covers them.
In view of Schwendener's theory that lichens are but symbiotic forms of algre and fungi it is to be regretted that the probably rich fields afforded by the latter named great families in this region have yet to be investigated.
Mosses are even more abundant than lichens.
They grow in such vast quantities in spots that their light or dark greens are visible often for some miles away brightening the otherwise bleak shores wonderfully.
Their persistence in growth under apparently adverse circumstances is also remarkable.
No obstacle save the sea seems sufficient to stop their progress.
Even dead glaciers have been and are being buried under the steady march of these cryptogamous plants.
Mosses fulfil the same duty in Greenland that other forms of plant life perform in more favored climes and the amount of rich vegetable matter being deposited by them may be of great value in the future to that great arctic island.
The Academy is indebted to Mr. Stewardson Brown Corresponding Secretary of its Botanical Section for the determination of the flowering plants  to Dr. John W. Eckfeldt for the determination of the lichens while for the naming of the mosses the Academy is indebted to the kindness of Mrs. N. L. Britton of New York whose knowledge of this department of botany is conceded to be preeminent.
Ranunculus Lapponicus L. Dr. Burk.
Ranunculus nivalis L. Etah in great abundance and with great vigor a point characteristic of the vegetation about this ancient Esquimo settlement.
Ranunculus pygmaeus Wahl.
Apparently confined to swampy places.
Papaver nudicaule L. Common everywhere in Greenland.
A remarkably variable plant.
On the table land back of McCormick Bay Prudhoe Land a white flowered form is somewhat common  it has a more compact habit and smaller flowers than the yellow or more prevalent form.
On Wostenholm Island the compactness of growth is particularly marked.
The number of petals varies and the margins are not unfrequently fimbriate.
In the vicinity of Disco the peduncles are hairy.
At Upernavik forms with hairy and smooth peduncles grow together.
Cheiranthus pygmaeus Adams.
Dr. Burk.
Arabis alpina L. Found only on Disco Island  only two specimens on soggy ground one in flower the other in fruit.
Cardamine pratensis var.
alpina L. Not in Dr. Burk's collections and a single specimen only gathered in wet ground on Disco Island.
Vesicaria arctica Rich.
Inglefield Gulf in dry places between rocks in fruit middle of August.
Draba alpina L. Several varieties.
McCormick Bay.
Draba hirta L. Varying remarkably in different localities.
At Disco more tall and slender than at Etah.
In company with Papaver nudicaule Dryas several Ranunculi and other flowers with a luxuriant growth of some Hypnum it formed a striking feature in the flora of a  Nunatak or snowless peak arising out of the Verhoeff glacier.
Draba rupestris R. Br.
Dr. Burk.
Cochlearia officinalis L. At Disco usually but about 3 inches high but at Atanekerdluk in Waigat Strait opposite Disco double the size.
A favorite food of the Eskimos both North and South.
Braya glabella Richards.
McCormick Bay and Inglefield Gulf.
Lychnis apetala L. Remarkably variable.
Sometimes with quite showy petals.
Flowers often singly on scapes at others in 56 flowered capitate heads and again with flowers scattered along the stems.
One specimen at Inglefield Gulf close to the front edge of a receding glacier which spot had been covered by solid ice within a year or two.
Silene acaulis L. Everywhere in very wet or very dry places indiscriminately.
Cerastium alpinum L. At Disco spreading.
At Upernavik suberect.
Above Melville Bay at AVostenholm and northwardly in small compact erect masses.
Stellaria longipes Goldie var.
Edwardsii R. Br.
On the Verhoeff Nunatak the plants were but two inches high.
Much larger elsewhere in Greenland.
Stellaria humifusa Rottbl.
Seems scarce only one small specimen from Disco.
Arenaria Groenlandica Spreng.
McCormick Bay.
Arenaria peploides L. Disco.
July 14th.
One flower with a remarkably large colored calyx  the sepals being three quarters of an inch long.
The cause of this abnormal growth not determined.
Potentilla emarginata Pursh.
Wostenholtn Island Upernavik and on the Nunatak in the Verhoeff glacier.
Potentilla nivea L. Dr. Burk.
Potentilla pulchella R. Br.
Disco.
Potentilla maculata Pourr.
Disco not in Dr. Burk's collection.
Potentilla tridentata Ait.
Godthaab and as far North as Disco.
Dryas octopetala L. Next to Papaver perhaps the commonest flower of Greenland.
Sometimes in clumps of a foot across with sometimes a hundred flowers open at once.
Also on the Verhoeff Nunatak.
Alchemilla vulgaris L. Varying in size.
At Disco preferring wet places.
Saxifraga csespitosa L. Saxifraga cernua L. Disco.
On the Verhoeff Nunatak.
Saxifraga fiagellaris Willd.
McCormick Bay.
Appears to be rare.
I only found a few plants here and only one specimen was seen by Dr. Burk and that in the same locality.
Saxifraga oppositifolia Willd.
Growing in great masses and giving great beauty to the rocks about the Redcliff House Lieutenant Peary's winter quarters.
Saxifraga nivalis L. Disco.
Saxifraga rivularis L. Above Meville Bay not half the size of those at Disco.
Saxifraga tricuspidata Ketz.
Common everywhere.
On the Verhoeff Nunatak.
Saxifraga azoides L. Wostenholm Island and McCormick Bay not in Dr. Burk's collection.
Saxifraga stellaris L. Not in Dr. Burk's collection but not rare at Disco.
Much larger than specimens from Point Barrow on the Northwest Pacific coast.
Sedum Ehodiola D. C. Rocks at Godthaab.
Cornus canadensis L. Godthaab specimen not collected though observed by me.
Epilobium angustifolium L. Not collected by Dr. Burk.
Epilobium latifolium L. Found on cliffs close up to the ice cap.
Erigeron alpinus LFound only by Dr. Burk.
Erigeron oompositus Pursh.
Inglefield Gulf.
It is interesting to note that while the plants of Greenland vary much according to location these are exactly like Rocky Mountain specimens and specimens of Nuttall from Walla Walla on the Columbia River.
Matricaria inodora L. This indomitable traveler has gained a foothold in Disco.
Soil was brought from Denmark for the Inspector's garden and the seed probably came in that way.
Antennaria alpina Gasrtn.
Varying in no degree from those in American alpine heights.
Artemisia borealis Pall.
Disco.
Not in the collection of Dr. Burk.
Arnica alpina Olin.
In great abundance on the Verhceff Nunatak.
Taraxacum officinale Web.
The lividum form common at Disco.
Campanula uniflora L. Disco.
Campanula rotundifolia L. Disco.
Nearly always with a single large flower on the scape.
Vaccinium uliginosum L. Some of the plants have the leaves colored with rose.
These are always sterile  only the fully greenleaved plants produce berries.
These are gathered and prepared for food by the Esquimos.
To us the berries seemed tasteless.
Rhododendron Lapponicum Wahl.
Collected by Dr. Burk.
I did not meet with it in flower but a specimen was among some given me by the Inspector at Disco.
Bryanthus taxifolius Gr.
Cassiope hypnoides Don.
Almost everywhere where the ground was dry.
Cassiope tetragona Don.
Only in dry places.
Emitting a delightful odor like that of a Lily of the Valley  overhanging rocks in long spreading masses  collected and preserved for fuel by the North and South Greenland Esquimos.
Ledum palustre L.  Labrador tea  and used as tea by the South Greenland Esquimos.
Pyrola rotundifolia var.
pumila L. Diapensia Lapponica L. Disco.
Armeria vulgaris L. Disco.
Mertensia maritima Don.
Sea Beach at Disco.
Veronica aipina L. Disco.
Bartsia aipina L. Disco.
Pedicularis capitata Adams.
Disco.
Pedicularis flammea L. Disco.
Found only by myself.
Pedicularis hirsuta L. McCormick Bay.
Variable.
Now growing to a foot high and branching and now but an inch or two high with a simple stem.
Pedicularis Lapponica L. Disco.
Pedicularis versicolor Wahl.
Disco.
Dr. Burk.
Polygonum viviparum L. Sometimes with leaves in dense tufts with leafy flower stems.
When not viviparous the plant is dwarf and the flowers bright rosyred.
In the inconspicuous state the scapes are tall and usually leafless.
Oxyria digyna Willd.
Widely distributed throughout Greenland.
Betula nana L. Common in company with the arctic willow at Disco and southwardly growing about six inches high and forming tufts of several feet radius.
It is found from Cape Farewell to Duck Islands the south border of Melville Bay.
This is probably its limit.
I found it no further north.
Saved for fuel by the South Greenland Esquimos.
Salix arctica R. B.
Average height 6 inches but spreading often to 6 feet in the circumference of its branches.
But its short stem grows quite thick.
At Disco I saw one with the short trunk as thick as one's wrist hanging from a crevice in a rock.
Grows at all altitudes from the Beach line close to the ice cap.
In Inglefield Gulf found large old plants up to within 20 feet of a receding glacier and on a spot which had certainly been covered by ice less than two years before.
There were no lateral or medial moraines to bring the plants and all the facts on the spot led to the conclusion that the willows had been buried when the glacier flowed over the spot and had been dormant until the ice receded.
Professor Heilprin coincided with me in this conclusion.
Catkins used by Eskimos for tinder.
Salix herbacea L. Disco and Upernavik.
Abies obovata Loud.
In sheltered fiords near Godthaab and southwardly.
Only seen and not collected by me or Dr. Burk.
In some situations growing from four to eight feet high.
Empetrum nigrum.
L. The Eskimos are very fond of the fruit.
Women and children go out to gather it as they would blackberries or strawberries with us.
I was told that at Disco and Godthaab the natives make preserves of it.
It is kept for fuel.
Tofieldia palustris Hudson.
Disco.
Luzula arcuata Mey.
Luzula spadicea D. C. Disco.
Not in Dr. Burk's collection.
Eriophorum polystachyon L. var.
latifolium.
Called by the natives Ewickswa   Rabbitsfoot grass.
Used by the Eskimos as punk or tinder.
It is first ignited by a spark and then blown into a flame on dry moss.
It grows in vast quantities in low wet places.
From Melville Bay south it reaches a foot high  but only about six inches above that point.
Scirpus caespitosus L. Dr. Burk.
Carex vulgaris Fr.
var.
hyperborea.
Carex atrata Boott.
Not in Dr. Burk's collection.
Specimens in the Herbarium of the Academy collected in latitude 81 82 by Dr. Emil Bessels of the illfated Polaris expedition are barely 2 inches high.
These from McCormick Bay are about one foot.
Kobesia scirpina Willd.
Dry places McCormick Bay.
Plants remarkably stout and stocky but culms scarcely reaching three inches high.
Hierochloe alpina R.  S. McCormick Bay.
Making a close herbage nearly one foot high.
Alopecurus alpinus L. This seems to be the prevailing grass around Eskimo settlements.
It grows in such wild luxuriance with herbage a foot in height and of such a vivid green that it can be seen for two or three miles from the shore.
Some of my specimens were 18 inches in length.
At Godthaab hay is made from it.
Poa alpina L. Near Disco it grows from 18 inches to 2 feet high but the leaves are comparatively short.
Poa arctica R. Br.
Poa nemoralis L. Uperuavik.
Poa pratensia L. Not in Dr. Burk's collection.
Abundant in McCormick Bay.
At Disco it makes culms 18 inches to 2 feet.
Trisetum sesquiflorum Trin.
Collected only by myself.
McCormick Bay.
Glyceria fluitans.
Only by Dr. Burk.
Festuoa ovina L. var.
brevifolia.
Festuoa ovina var.
vivipara.
At Godthaab but growing only about six inches high.
Arctagrostis latifolia Griesb.
Elymus mollis Trin.
Disco.
Not in Dr. Burk's collection.
At Atanekerdlut reaching three or four feet high along the Sea Beach.
Equisetum arvense Lin.
Equisetum variegatum.
Dr. Burk.
Woodsia ilvensis Br.
Disco.
In crevices of rocks.
Cystopteris fragilis Bernh.
Disco.
About 12 inch fronds in crevices of rocks.
Not in Dr. Burk's collection.
Nephrodium spinulosum Mul.
Crevices of Rocks at Godthaab.
Among the few things cultivated by the Danes at Godthaab.
Not in Dr. Burk's collection.
Lycopodium annotinum L. Disco reaching close to the edge of the ice cap.
Lycopodium Selago. '
Disco reaching about two inches high.
Lichens.
The collection has been kindly determined by Dr. John M. Eckfeldt.
Those marked  were also collected in the first expedition by Dr. Burk.
f Collected only by Dr. Burk.
216 1893.
The profusion of Lichens strikes the visitor to Greenland at once on reaching its shores.
Many species seem to have preferences for peculiar situations and give the rocks when at some distance the appearance of being variously colored.
Cetraria nivalis L. Ach.
fCetraria Islandica.
Cetraria cucullata Bill.
Ach.
Alectoria ochroleuca Nyl.
var.
rigida Fr.
Theloschistes lychneus Nyl.
Parmelia saxatilis L. Fr.
McCormick Bay.
Parmelia conspersa L. Wallr.
McCormick Bay.
Parmelia lanata L. Wallr.
McCormick Bay.
Parmelia incana Pers.
Fr.
McCormick Bay.
Physcia pulverulenta Schreb.
McCormick Bay.
Umbilicariaproboscidea L. Stin.
McCormick Bay.
Umbilicaria rugifera Nyl.
McCormick Bay.
Umbilicaria hyperborea Hoff.
McCormick Bay.
Umbilicaria anthracoria Wulf.
McCormick Bay.
Nephroma arotica L. Fr.
McCormick Bay.
tPeltigera canina L. Hoffm.
fPeltigera apb.tb.osa L. Solomia saocata L. Ach.
Solomia crocea L. Ach.
Pannaria hypnorum Hoff.
Kolb.
Collema melaenum Ach.
McCormick Bay.
Placodium vitellinum Ehrh.
McCormick Bay.
Placodium elegans Link.
McCormick Bay.
Lecanora lentigera Webb.
Ach.
McCormick Bay.
Lecanora ventosa L. Ach.
Rinodina sophodes Ach.
Nyl.
Pertasaria coriacea Th.
Fr.
fPertusaria paradoxa Lindb.
Gyalecta peziza Mont.
fStereocaulon alpinum Lam.
Cladonia pyxidata L. Fr.
Cladonia gracilis L. Nyl.
var.
elongata forma macroceris Tuck.
Cladonia deformis L. Hoff.
Lecidia platycarpa Ach.
McCormick Bay.
Buellia geographica L. Tuck.
McCormick Bay.
Sphaerophorus globiferus L. D. C. McCormick Bay.
Coniocybe furfuracea L. Verrucaria pygmaea Koelt.
Parasitic on Cladonia gracilis.
Thamnolia vermicularis Sw. Ach.
1893.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
Mosses.
Collected at McCormick and Robertson's Bay.
217 Andraea Blythii Schimp.
Aulacomnion palustre L. Aulaconmion turgidum Wahl.
Bryum argenteum L. Bryum inclinatum.
Bryuin nitidulum Lindb.
Bryum pendulum.
Bryum pyriforme L. Dicranoweisia crispula Lindb.
Grimmia apocarpa Hedw.
Hypnum nitens Schrd.
Hypnum Richardsoni Mitt.
Hypnum splendens Hedw.
Hypnum uncinatum Hedw.
Onchophorus polycarpus Brid.
Onchophorus Wahlenbergii var.
Orthothecium chryseum Brid.
 Scb.
Orthotrichum arcticum Schimp.
Philonotis fontana Brid.
Pottia Heynei var.
Pogonatum alpinum and var.
Roth.
Pohlia cucullata.
Pohlia nutans.
Racomitrium lanuginosum Brid.
Sphagnum fimbriatum var.
Wils.
Swartzia montana var.
Lam.
Tetraplodon bryoides Lindb.
Funaria hygrometrioa var.
Sib.
15 May 2.
The President General Isaac J. Wistar in the chair.
Fifty persons present.
A paper entitled  Observations on the Japanese Salamander Cryptobranchus maximus Schlegel by Henry C. Chapman M. D. was presented for publication.
May 9.
The President General Isaac J. Wistar in the chair.
Fortyseven persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication    Observations on Vallonia by Dr. V. Sterki. 
Some new and littleknown Palaeozoic and Jurassic Fishes by Edw.
D. Cope.
The death of J. Gibbons Hunt M. D. on the 29th ult. having been announced at the last meeting the following minute submitted by a committee appointed for the purpose was unanimously adopted   Resolved That the members of this Academy have learned with profound sorrow of the death of their late associate Professor J. Gibbons Hunt M. D. who as one of the founders of the Biological and Microscopical Section of the Academy and the first Professor appointed by the Academy under its bylaws as amended a few years since to the Chair of Histology and Microscopical Technology has rendered lasting services to the Society that are held in grateful remembrance by his associates.
That we also give expression to our sense of appreciation of the late Professor Hunt as a pioneer teacher and master in the most refined methods of modern microscopical research for which however owing to his native modesty and reserve he never received a large share of popular recognition though known throughout the country to all specialists for the important improvements and discoveries in technique by means of which he had enlarged the possibilities of a science but little cultivated amongst us when he began his work upward of thirty years ago.
That we vividly recall the power and grace with which he could paint in spoken or written words the aspects and moods of that world of nature great and small in field and forest that he so dearly loved and enjoyed with all the sincerity and philosophical sobriety of an Emerson.
That these traits and his readiness also to offer advice and help to beginners in the fields of animal and vegetable histology in both of which he was a deservedly recognized authority his uniform kindness of manner uprightness and purity of character have endeared his memory to his fellowmembers of the Academy.
Cretaceous Ammonites and other Fossils near Moorestown N. J.
Their stratigraphic osition shoivn by an Artesian Well Section at Maple Shade N. J. Incidental reference to Water Horizons.
 Lewis Woolman stated that during the fall of 1892 there had been placed in his hands for identification by Joseph Walton of Moorestown N. J. an interesting set of cretaceous fossils collected by him at the clay pits belonging to A.
A. Reeve upon the left bank of the north branch of the Pensauken Creek two miles very slightly south of west from Moorestown station and between Maple Shade and Lenola stations on the Burlington County R. R. The fossils are mainly in the form of casts and are remarkably wellpreserved in comparison with similar fossils from other localities in the State.
The most noticeable among them are two species of Ammonites each about twelve inches in diameter being considerably larger than any of the same species now in the Academy's collection from the State of New Jersey though there are in the Museum two individuals of one of the forms from the Delaware and Chesapeake Canal that measure respectively 16 and 18 inches across.
The number of species collected by Joseph Walton numbered twentythree all mollusks except one  an Echinus.
More recently visits to the locality have been made by C. W. Johnson with a class from the Wagner Institute by Prof. A. Heilprin with the Academy's Geological Class and by the speaker accompanied by Professors Smock and Salisbury.
These parties collectively obtained not only all the molluskan forms found by Joseph Walton but also fortytwo additional ones mostly of the smaller forms.
This makes the total number of species of mollusks sixtyfour.
There were also found fish remains consisting of teeth belonging to the genus Pycnodus and also undeterminable fragments of bones and portions of crab's claws together with considerable lignite.
The latter was in some cases much bored by the Teredo and the cavities frequently lined with minute crystals of iron pyrites.
A number of specimens of Martesia cretacea showing the shell were also found in burrows thev bad themselves made in the wood.
Through the courtesy of several members of the two classes a considerable number of the specimens they procured were submitted for examination.
These together with those previously collected were carefully compared by H. A. Pilsbry and the speaker with the figures and text of Whitfield's Paleontology of New Jersey and with the works of other authorities and also Avith the types and other specimens in the Museum of the Academy.
One form Voluta delaivarensis was identified by Professor R. P. Whitfield.
Professor A. Heilprin kindly assisted in the final determination of a few forms.
In nomenclature we have followed Whitfield to whose work the specialist is referred for synonyms and references to other literature.
For convenience the volume page jlate and figure where each is described and illustrated are noted.
The list is as follows  CEPHALOPODA.
Ammonites Placentaceras placenta DeKay.
1 Vol.
II page 255 pi.
XL fig.
1 XLI figs.
1 and 2.
Ammonites delaivarensis Morton.
Vol.
II page 252 pi.
XLII figs.
6 to 9.
Scavhites hippocrepis DeKay.
Vol.
II page 262 pi.
XLIV figs.
8 to 12.
Scaphites nodosus Owen.
Vol.
II page 261 pi.
XLIV figs.
13 and 14.
Baculites ovatus Say.
Vol.
II page 275 pi.
XLVI figs.
3 to 9.
GASTEROPODA.
Cerithium Potamides f Sp.

Dentalium subarcuahim Conrad internal casts.
Vol.
II page 166 pi.
XX figs.
19 and 20.
Dentalium subareuatum Conrad external impression.
Vol.
II page 166 pi.
XX figs.
21 to 24.
Alaria rostrata Gabb numerous.
Vol.
II page 119 pi.
XIV figs.
5 and 6.
Gyrodes infracarinata Gabb.
Vol.
II page 125 pi.
XV figs.
13 to 16.
Lunatia halli Gabb.
Vol.
II page 130 pi.
XVI figs.
13 to 16.
Natica abyssina Morton.
Vol.
II page 123 pi.
XV fig.
9 to 12.
Turbinella parva Gabb.
Vol.
II page 80 pi.
IX figs.
4 to 6.
TurritellavertebroidesMortony.
Vol.
II page 146 pi.
XVIII figs.
13 to 18.
Voluta 
delaivarensis Gabb.
Vol.
II page 84 pi.
X figs.
5 to 7.
Volutoderma abbotii Gabb.
Vol.
II page 173 pi.
XXI figs.
4 to 9.
Volutomorpha  Sp.

Avellana bullata Morton.
Vol.
II page 163 pi.
XX figs.
1 to 4.
1 The references are to Whitfield's Palaeontology of New Jersey.
Oithara crossicickensis Whitfield.
Vol.
II page 107 pi.
XIII figs.
7 and 8.
Odontofusus slacki Gabb.
Vol.
II page 66 pi.
VI figs.
8 and 9.
Qyrodes obtusivolva Gabb.
Vol.
II page 129 pi.
XVI figs.
9 to 12.
Gyrodes altispira Gabb.
Vol.
II page 128 pi.
XVI figs.
7 and 8.
 Margarita abysina Gabb.
Vol.
II page 133 pi.
XVII figs.
1 to 5.
Modulus lapidosa Whitfield.
Vol.
II page 152 pi.
XVII figs.
6 to 8.
Pyropsis alabamensis Gabb.
Pyropsis naticoides Whitfield.
Vol.
II page 43 pL II figs.
5 to 7.
Rostellites nasutus Gabb.
Vol.
II page 86 pi.
XI figs.
1 and 2.
Rostellites texturatus Whitfield.
Vol.
II page 88 pi.
XI figs.
5 and 6.
Rostellites angulatus Whitfield.
Vol.
II page 88 pi.
XI figs.
3 and 4.
Scalaria thomasi Gabb.
Vol.
II page 137 pi.
XVIII fig.
1.
Scalaria sillimani Morton.
Vol.
II page 138 pi.
XVIII fig.
2.
Scalaria sp 
Turritella encrinoides Morton.
Vol.
II page 143 pi.
XVIII figs.
19 to 22.
Turritella lippincotti Whitfield.
Vol.
II page 145 pi.
XVIII figs.
23 and 24.
Turritella pumila Gabb.
Vol.
II page 187 pi.
XXIII figs.
5 and 6.
Endopiygma umbilicata Tuomey.
Vol.
II page 136 pi.
XVII fig.
30.
LAMELLIBRANCHIATA.
Calliste delatvarensis Gabb.
Vol.
I page 153 pi.
XXII figs.
8 to 10.
Cardium Criocardium dumosum Conrad.
Vol.
I page 133 pi.
XX figs.
9 to 13.
CarUium Fragum tenuistr latum Whitfield numerous.
Vol.
I page 139 pi.
XX figs.
15 and 16.
Cyprimeria lieilprini Whitfield.
Vol.
I page 160 pi.
XXII figs.
14 and 15.
Camptonectes Amusium burlingtonensis Gabb.
Vol.
I page 53 pi.
VIII figs.
3 to 9.
Gouldia conradi Whitfield.
Vol.
I page 125 pi.
XVIII figs.
1 to 3.
Idonearca antrosa Morton.
Vol.
I page 96 pi.
XIII figs.
6 to 11.
Leiopistha protexta Conrad.
Vol.
I page 140 pi.
XX figs.
1 to 3.
Neithea quinquecostata Sowerby.
Vol.
I page 56 pi.
VIII figs.
12 to 14.
Pinna laqueata Conrad.
Vol.
I page 81 pi.
XVI figs.
1 and 2.
Pholadomya occidentalis Morton.
Vol.
I page 175 pi.
XXIV figs.
1 to 3.
Plicatula urticosa Morton.
Vol.
I page 61 pi.
IX figs.
1 and 2.
Tenea pinguis Conrad.
Vol.
I page 163 pi.
XXII figs.
1 to 3.
Anomia tellinoides Morton.
Vol.
I page 43 pi.
IV figs.
12 and 13.
Axinea mortoni Conrad.
Vol.
I page 99 pi.
XI figs.
23 to 25.
Aphrodina tippana Conrad.
Vol.
I page 154 pi.
XXII figs.
6 and 7.
Cyprimeria densata Conrad.
Vol.
I page 157 pi.
XXII figs.
19 to 21.
Clavagella armata Morton.
Vol.
I page 192 pi.
XXV fig.
24.
Exogyra costata Say.
Vol.
I page 39 pi.
VI figs.
1 and 2.
Idonearca vulgaris Morton.
Vol.
I page 98 pi.
XIII figs.
1 to 5.
Mytilus oblivius Whitfield.
Vol.
I page 64 pi.
XVII fig.
1.
Martesia cretacea Gabb.
Vol.
I page 190 pi.
XXV figs.
20 to 23.
Panopea decisa Conrad.
Vol.
I page 181 pi.
XXIV figs.
5 to 8.
Trigonia mortoni Whitfield.
Vol.
I p. 112 pi.
XIV figs.
5 and 6.
Teredo irregularis Gabb.
Vol.
I Dage 191 pi.
XXV figs.
18 and 19.
Teredo tibialis Morton.
Vol.
I page 201 pi.
XXVI figs.
19 to 22.
Veniella conradi Morton.
Vol.
I page 144 pi.
XIX figs.
8 to 10.
Included in the total number of molluscan species as above stated and therefore to be added to this list are two forms of Gasteropoda pronounced by Prof. R. P. Whitfield to be new to the New Jersey fauna  one of these in a preliminary note received he inclines to regard as a Volutoderma and the other he states is probably a Cerithium and much resembles C. conradi Whitfield 2 the type of which came from the cretaceous of Syria.
These forms have been again referred to him for further detailed description.
ECHINODERMATA.
Hemiaster parastatus Morton.
Morton's Cretaceous Fossils page 77 pi.
Ill fig.
21.
It may here be noted that one specimen of Ammonites delawarensis has the outer whorls on one side broken off so as to show the inner whorl.
This initial whorl is identical in sculpturing with Morton's figure of A. vanuxemi which was doubtless named by him 2 See Bulletin New York' Museum of Natural History Vol.
Ill No.
2 page 428 pi.
IX figs.
11 and 12. either from imperfect or from young specimens.
This double naming of what is really one species has been noted by other writers.
Respecting Dentalium subarcuatum above listed numerous casts occur that have generally been referred to that species.
Most such casts were obtained in nearly straight short fragments.
Examples however were noted in the specimens under study that were from four to five inches long more or less bent and irregular in some parts of their length while quite straight in other parts.
This irregularity suggests that instead of belonging to the genus Dentalium they may very probably represent casts made by the filling in of the borings of some worm.
This idea was suggested by Professor A. Heilprin.
These remarks do not however refer to the external impressions listed as Dentalium which undoubtedly belong to that genus.
Most of the fossils occur in a bed of black sand about three feet thick interbedded between two clay beds the lower one a thick bed of black clay somewhat micaceous and the upper one composed of two divisions as follows that next the black sand a ferruginous clay with ironstone crusts and the one above this a soft yellow clay.
Over these are the superficial or yellow gravels.
A few fossils however are found both above and below the black sand but not in the gravels.
The yellow and the black clays are used for making bricks.
The black clay has been dug into or otherwise tested at the pits to the depth of about 25 feet without getting through it.
Its entire thickness has however been ascertained to be 44 feet from a wellboring recently made at Maple Shade one mile west.
The relative position of the fossiliferous horizon is shown in the following section which gives the thickness of strata as ascertained at Reeve's claybank and at the well as learned from a record furnished by those interested in its boring.
Surface gravel 5 ft. Yellow clay 8 ft. 13 ft. Ferriferous clay and ironstone crust 4 ft. 17 ft. Fossiliferous black sand containing Ammonites Scaphites Baculites and other Mollusks 3 ft. 20 ft. Black clay 44 ft. 64 ft. A Fine and coarse gray sands at the top changing to medium and then to coarse and pebbly gravels at the bottom 33 ft. 97 ft. Green sand marl 6 ft. 103 ft. B Fine gray sand and coarse gravely similar to A 27ft.
130ft.
White clay 100 ft. 230 ft. Red clay 10 ft. 240 ft. Alternations of sand and clay sometimes reddish 20 ft. 260 ft. C White sand 40 ft. 300 ft. White sand fine with streaks of clay 15 ft. 315 ft. White sand coarse 15 ft. 330 ft. White sand medium coarse 20 ft. 350 ft. White gravel coarse 10 ft. 360 ft. White gravel coarser 10 ft. 370 ft. D White gravel very coarse with large pebbles and boulders 5 ft. 375 ft.
The sands and gravels marked A B C and D all furnish water and may be regarded as water horizons  that marked A being the one reached by wells dug in this neighborhood and which penetrate through the black clay.
Excepting the few feet of surface gravels which are of more recent date it may be premised that all the beds in the section are below the lower green sand marl bed since they are west of the outcrops of the same as mapped by the New Jersey Geological Survey.
In the report of the survey for 1868 Professor G. H. Cook describes nest below the lower green sand a series of beds of  clay marls with an estimated thickness of 277 feet of which the upper 170 feet he states is composed of laminated sands and thin clay seams and the lower 170 feet of heavy dark clays and green sands.
These  clay marls in turn rest upon another group of strata composed largely of white yellow and red clays termed plastic clays and which form the base of the cretaceous as it exists in New Jersey.
These plastic clays have a thickness as shown in the report on clays N. J.
Survey 1868 of 347 feet.
The plastic clays can be distinguished from the  clay marls  by the entire absence of green sand grains in them.
Referring to the section it may be noticed that beneath the black clays there are 66 1'eet of fine and coarse sand and medium coarse and heavy gravels including a parting near the middle six feet thick largely composed of green sand.
The presence of the green sand would seem to class these gravels with the laminated sands and clay marls rather than with the plastic clays.
The division between these two groups therefore occurs at the depth of 130 feet.
Allowing five feet for the surface gravels we have 125 feet as the thickness at this locality of the lower or dark clay and green sand division of the group of laminated sands and  clay marls.
The thickness of the overlying gravel is however probably greater than five feet upon the more elevated portions of this region so that a greater depth would have to be gone through in some places to reach the yellow and black clays of the clay marl series.
Remarks on Hawaiian Crania.
 Dr. C. N. Peirce remarked that Dr.
I. M. Whitney of Honolulu S. I. to whom the Academy is indebted for the collection of crania presented this evening had informed him that the ancient Hawaiians had two quite distinct modes of burial of their dead some being deposited in caves in the rocks which are numerous while others are placed in the sands of the seashore which are frequently thrown up into hills of considerable size by the trade winds.
Tradition places burial in caves as the earliest and most important.
The chiefs and men of note were here laid away with great secrecy and care.
In search of these Dr. Whitney after receiving the speaker's letter of request set out in company with a friend to the island of Hawaii.
After reaching the locality they procured with difficulty aud at considerable expense a couple of old native men to act as guides.
They were led over miles of rough desolate land to a hollow which to the uninitiated eyes of the explorers looked like hundreds of other similar places.
The men threw out several large stones exposing a small opening.
This when enlarged as much as possible admitted them into Egyptian darkness below.
They crawled upon their stomachs until a space was reached where they could walk in a stooping position carrying with them lighted candles and bags in which to bring away anything of interest they might find.
This passageway at last opened into a cave eight or ten feet high and twenty feet wide with ledges upon the sides.
It was here wrapped in the tapa or Hawaiian cloth specimens of which are presented with the crania they found what they had so long and laboriously sought.
These caves were dry and seemed pervaded by some antiseptic influence.
Dr. Whitney thought that owing to the difficulty of reaching these sacred precincts the body was disemboweled the legs were doubled up the head bent down and the whole wrapped in thicknesses of tapa cloth so as to occupy as little space as possible.
With the bodies were found a great variety of objects including a quantity of ava a root used for the preparation of a mild intoxicant and supposed to have been offered as food for the departing spirit calabashes sticks used by birdcatchers and some elegant large tapas the size of a bedspread.
Dr. Whitney was assured that the cave had not been opened for over seventy years and that many of the crania were probably several centuries old.
Dr. Whitney has been for many years a careful student of these old burying places but he had never before found any locality so interesting as the cave from which he obtained the specimens presented to the Academy.
The bleached crania are from the sand burial places and were partially or wholly exposed.
The knees were flexed against the breast and all tied closely about and buried in a sitting posture.
226 proceedings of the academy of 1893.
May 16.
The President General Isaac J. Wistar in the chair.
Fiftyfour persons present.
Rev.
F. C. Morsell in connection with the meeting of the Biological and Microscopical Section made an illustrated communication on polarized light under the title Taking a Sunbeam apart No abstract.
May 23.
The President General Isaac J. Wistar in the chair.
Forty persons present.
May 30.
The President General Isaac J. Wistar in the chair.
Twentythree persons present.
The deaths were announced of Edward Bancroft a member May 22 1893 and of Dr. Robert Hartmann a Correspondent April 21 1893.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication    Descriptions of two new species of North American Bombycidpe by Herman Strecker. 
The Measurement of the Radius of Curvature of the Cornea by means of the Helmholz Ophthalmometer by Henry C. Chapman M. D. Morris L. Orum and Ernest B. Sangree M. D. were elected members.
Otto Staudinger of Dresden Germany and F. Ducane Godman of London England were elected Correspondents.
The following were ordered to be published  
