A NEW SUBFAMILY OF MURINE RODENTS THE NEOTOMINiE WITH DESCRIPTION OF A NEW GENUS AND SPECIES AND A SYNOPSIS OF THE KNOWN FORMS.
BY DR. C. HART MERRIAM.
A study of the rich collections of American Murine Rodents brought together by the V. S. Deartment of Agriculture shows that the genus NeoUxma is one of a group of closely allied forms which differ so radically from the tuberculate crowned Murines with which they have been commonly associated that the propriety of separating them as an independent subfamily seems evident.
The unparalleled series of Mexican Rodents collected by Mr. E. W. Nelson in connection with his work for the Division of Ornithology and lammalogy of the U.
8.
Department of Agriculture contains a large number of wood rats several of which are not properly referable to the genus Neotoma
Two of these were described by me sometime ago under the names Xenomys nelson i and Neotomaleni the former being made the type of a new genus.
In the original account of Neotomaleni attention was called to the circumstance that the crown of the last lower molar is shaped like the letter S instead of exhibiting two transverse loojis as usual in the genus Neotomad it was remarked that this peculiarity might prove worthy of subgeneric recognition p. 1G7.
In the course of a subsequent study of the American wood rats it was discovered that the character in question which is one of great value is correlated with a number of important cranial characters making it obviously undesirable to retain the animal longer in the genus Neotoma
Anieghino has described and figured two related rodents from the I'ampean Pliocene deposits near Villa de Lujan in the province of Buenos Ayres which he has named Ptyssoplwnis elegana and Tretomyii atavni. His description of the former is based on the broken ramus of the mandible of an apparently immatuie indi' Proc.
Biological Soc.
of Wasliiiigtou VII Sept. 1892 150lf3  lOTKW.
 ManiniifVros Fosiles do la licpiihlica Argeiitiua por Floivntino Amcghino ishi 111 112 and pi.
iv figs.
1 1. '
llii.l.. Hit 120 and pi.
iv fig.
16.
IG vidual that of the latter is based oii a fragment of the niaxillarv containing the upper molar series.
At first I was inclined to regard Ameghino's specimens of Ptxjssophorns fig.
le and Tretomys fig.
2 as the lower and upper jaws of the same animal and to look upon my ' Neotomalleiii fig.
le as congeneric therewith. But subsequent study has convinced me that FfysiiophorKS and Tretomy are probably distinct though closely related genera and that the living species formerly described as N. alleni together with the new siiecies here named vetulm represent a third genus of the same group.
For this genus I propose the name Hodomys
Hodomysis a more recent type than Plyssophorus less specialized than Xenomys and more ancient than Neotoma
So far as dental characters go the group of genera under consideration Ptyssophorus Tretomys HodomysXenomy. and Neotomaesents nearly every important step in the evolution of the modern genus Neotomaom the Cricetine series.
Sigmodoii seems to be the connecting link that bridges the gap between the tuberculate toothed Murine subfamily Cricetinse and the flat topped prismatic crowned Neotominie by which name it seems proper to designate the new subfamily comprising the 5 genera above enumerated.'
Sigmodon should be looked upon as an ancestral rather than a contemporary type.
It is almost on the dividing line between the tuberculate and flat crowned groups and is probably on or near the trunk line along which the Neotomime branched off from the tuberculate series.
It is evidently an ancient type dating back to the Pliocene at least'' since which period it has not undergone very marked changes.
In early life Sigmodon has the outer ends of the loops elevated forming half tuberculate grinders much as in the American Cricetines but the projecting loops are soon worn down leaving flat grinding surfaces fig.
.
The loops however remain closely appressed or even soldered together never standing out freely as in Neotomad Arvieola.
 While of this mind I fstated in u rccont paper on the geiuis Veooiia.
that the species of Wddd Kats havinit
the ciown of tlic last lower molar shaped like the letter S. were transferred to the iicnna J' 'ssoioris of Ameiihino  I'roe.
Biol.
Sou.
Wash. IX July 2 1894 117.
' It is irhalle that several other animals deserihed by Ameghino belong to the Neoloiincc  such as Boilirioniys and some of the species rel'erred to the genera Oxymiclerus Holochilus'AnA ' Habhrotrix'' Abrolhrix.
 Ameghino has figured an nndoulted Sigmodon from the Pamean Pliocene Mamif.
Fos.
.rgeiitinos pi.
4 fig.
lit
 and has referred the same to Holnchilus i'upiiins iJclif.
1894.
NATURAIj sciences of PiriLADEIPHIA.
227 Whatever the fiitui'e may show the exact genetic interrelations of these animals to be it is evident that Ptyssophorus is the more primitive type Tretomijs and Hodmij seem to represent more advanced stages in the evolution of the group while Xenomys and Neotomae more specialized.
Xenonys retains more primitive characters than Neotomad consequently must be looked upon as nearer Tretomys with which it agrees closely in dental characters on the other hand it is a far more specialized type than Neotomad can in noAvise be regarded as holding a place in the direct line of descent between Ptyssophoms and Neotoma
The discovery of complete skulls of PtyssopJwris and Tretomys may show that the line of generic separation should be drawn between Pfys.ophonS on the one hand and 'Tretomys and Xenomys on the other and believers in comprehensive genera may unite the two latter as subgenera of a single genus the relation of which to Neotomauld be that of a specialized ancestral type to a modernized type.
The fact that of the living genera only a single species of Xenomys and two of Hodomyshave been discovered while nearly thirty species of Neotomae known is strong evidence that Hodomysand Xowmys are survivors of the past bridging over the gap between Ptyssophonis and Neotomad that the latter genus is now at or near the height of its development.
Irrespective of the interrelations of these animals it is evident that collectively they form an important though not highly specialized subdivision of the Murine series standing somewhat apart from the others.
Wliile they resemble the Arvicolinaj in some respects they differ in numerous important characters and cannot be regarded as intermediate between the Arvicoliuic and Cricetiuce.
On the contrary the Neotomime and Arvicolinieseem to be independent oHshoots from the halftuberculate crowned Cricetines.
Among the many excellent characters that serve to distinguish these two groups the following are sufficient for present purposes  Subfamily ARVICOLINiE.
Cranium abruptly and strongly constricted immediately in front of brain case which is juadrangular projecting squarely into orlit  orbital and temporal fossje well difi'erentiated  jugal forming half or more than half of outer side of zvgoma and always reaching forward more than half way from squamosal root to maxillary plate sagittal area subquadrate usually broader than long angular process of mandible narrow everted lianiular and thickened at end infracondylar notch low and deep.
Subfamily NEOTOMIN.
Cranium not abruptly constricted in front of brain case which is oval gradually narrowing into orbit  orbital and temporal fossie indistinguishable without trace of separation  jugal wholly posterior forming insignificant part of zygoma and never reaching forward halfAvay from squamosal root to maxillary plate  sagittal area elongated at least twice as long as broad  angular process of mandible broadly expanded vertically inflected not hamular and never thickened at end  infracondylar notch high and shallow.
The dental characters of the Neotomiuic may be defined as follows Molars p prismatic rooted or semirooted the crowns fiat their sides continuously invested with enamel which is folded on itself in such manner as to present on each side of the tooth a series of salient loops alternating with reentrant angles or interspaces figs.
15.
M '  and  each with three salient loops and two reentrant angles on outer side  m  with three salient loops and two reentrant angles on inner side ' m  and  each with two salient loops and one reentrant angle on inner side  m  with three salient loops and two reentrant angles on outer side and four salient loops and three reentrant angles on inner side  with or without an anterior lobe m  normally with three salient and two reentrant angles on each side Ptyssophorus resembles Sirmodoii in having the anteroexternal reentrant angle small  m y variable but normally with two salient and one reentrant angles on each side.
The subfamily Neotominfe comprises the genera Neotonia Xenoniys Hodoviys TreUunys and Ptyssophorm and probably one or two others.
The Neotomina' may be distinguished from the Sigmodont 'ricetines by the following characters  Molar crowns prismatic  loops distant  enamel folds of equal thickness crowns flat antorbital vacuities without spine palate excavated between posterior molars Subfamily Neotominse. '
In Neotonia desertonini and arizonce the anterointenuil lodp is short and shallow and becomes obsolete with wear fig.
5a.
1894.
229 Molar crowns not pri.sniatit'  loops closely appressed  enamel folds of unequal thickness and rising at the free ends to form half tubercles antorbital vacuities with a blunt spine projecting forward from top of outer side  palate not excavated between posterior molars Sicinodnn fig.
Id Scapteromys Holochilus
 and other genera.
In order to render the present account of these highl interesting rodents as complete and useful as possible the genera Pty.
'mphoris and Trefomys are redefined tlie new and closely allied genus Hodomysis characterized with reference to the moie specialized genera Xenomys and Xentomu and descriptions of all the known species are added.
Genus PTYSSOPHORUS Ameghino Fossil Fig.
1 a b and c. Plyssopiojiis Ameghino Mamiferos Fosiles Eepublica Argentina 1889 111 I12 and pi.
iv figs.
1lr.
Tjqie Ptyssofhoitis clciaiis Ainegli.. IVom the Argentine Republic.
Crown of m  shaped like the letter S placed lengthwise of jaw projecting part of lower incisor nearly straight slender and forminoli Fig.
1. a d i Ph'ssopiorus elegans from Ameghino.
a.
Right ramus of mandible outer side.
b.
Same inner side enlarged.
c.  rowns of rigli t lower molars  enlarged .
.
Sigmodon hispidus crowns of right lower molars.
e. Hodomysallcni crowns of right lower molars.
with its fellow a single sharp almost spearshaped point for piercing symphysis of mandible long straight or nearly straight and usually bent up at a sharp angle with ramus the two posterior enamel folds of m 1 and  simple reaching completely across the tooth from side to side as in m .
  each reentrant angle corresponding to a salient loop on opposite side investing enamel walls parallel the included dentine forming a continuous narrow band of equal breadth throughout.
Ptyssophoriis and Hodomysagree in the following characters   Crown of m  shaped like the letter S placed lengthwise of jaw projecting part of lower incisor nearly straight slender and forming with its fellow a single sharp almost spearshaped point for piercing symphysis of mandible long straight or nearly straight and usually bent up at sharp angle with ramus.
Ptyssophoriis and Ilodomis differ in the following characters  Genus PTYSSOPHORUS Ameghino.
Fig.
Ic.
The two posterior enamel folds of m 1 and m  simple reaching comletely across the tooth from side to side as in m   each Genus HODOMYS nob.
Fig.
c. All enamel folds of m i and m 2 reaching only about halfway across tooth  each reentrant angle corresionding at least in reentrant angle corresponding to j young to reentrant angle of a salient loop on opposite side  opposite side  investing enamel investing enamel walls parallel j walls alternately divaricating and the included dentine forming a continuous narrow band of equal breadth throughout.
approximating the included dentine broken into disconnected parts.
The principal differences between the lower molars of PtyssopJwriis and those of Hodomysare that in Ptyssophoriis most of the enamel folds reach all the way across the tooth  the enclosed dentine is of nearly equal width throughout  the anterior loop of the first molar has an additional lobe and the first and second external loops of the middle molar are more crowded and less distinctly separated much as in Sifpnodon.
The only one of these differences of more than  The Miaiiiol iwttcrii of tlic crowns of in j and 
ol' 'vssiirts fits fig.
Ir is almost identical willi that of yoiuifj siiccinicns of sonic liviiis species of Sifftuodnii fifT.
1'.
lnt the cliaracter oi' the teeth isdiflereiit  In Soiodoi the crowns have liardly left the lulierciilate condition  tlu' enamel is of uiieual thickness tlie Ioojjs are closely aijpresscd and the reentrant anjjlcs are of superficial depth vertically  in J'yssoplKiriis the crowns are truly prismatic perfectly flat on top the loops widl spaced and the reentrant angles reach from crown to alveolus.
specific weight is the length of the enamel folds a character apparently due to anticiuity representing an earlier and more primitive stage in the evolution of the enamel pattern.
In Ameghino's single specimen the reentrant angles or grooves between the folds extend vertically from crown to alveolus as in the young of Neotomad allied types.
Whether they continue below the alveolus to the very root of the tooth as in the Arvicolines we are not informed but the characters of the jaw and molar crowns indicate that they do not.
The specimen is apparently immature and the teeth are probably rooted or semirooted.
Ptyssophorus elegans Aiiu'fihiiio.
Fig.
1 a h and c. Ptvssophorus damans Anieghino Mamiferos Fosiles Repub.
Argentina 1889 111 112. and pi.
4 tigs.
1 c.
Based on a fossil ramus of the mandible right side from the Pampean Pliocene deposits near Villa de Lujan Province of Buenos Ay res.
Specific characters.
 Most of the characters have been given above in the generic diagnosis and need not be repeated.
The anterior loop of m I has a lobe directed forward see fig.
1c.
Ameghino states that the alveolar border is higher on the outer than inner side of the jaw and that m i is nearly as large as m  and 3 together.
He gives the following measurements length of molar series on crowns 5 mm.
 on alveolus   distance from incisor to m 1 5 height of ramus at m  5 distance from front of incisor to back of last molar 12.
The incisor is shoi't but this may be an individual peculiarity.
The hinder part of the mandible is broken off so that the form of the angle and condylar ramus can only be inferred from allied forms.
Ameghino's figures are here reproduced fig.
1 a b and e.
Genus TRETOMYS Ameghino Fossil.
Fig.
2.
Tietoniys Anicgliinci Main.
Fos.
Rcpiil.
Argent.. 18.S9 110. pi.
4. figs.
15 and 167.
Type Trrloiiiys ala7'ii. Ameghino.
IVoni Pampean I'lioiene Argentine Repullic.
Generic characters based on Ameghino's figures and description of part of maxillary bone including upper molar series maxillary root of zygoma and upper incisor.
 Number of enamel folds as in other members of the subfamily m ' with three salient and two reentrant loops on each side  ni  and  each with three salient and two reentrant loops on outer side and two .
 salient and one reentrant loop on inner side liiiio.
Left upper the reentrant enamel folds from both sides li'stopping on or very near median line of teeth and directed jnward at nearly right angles to long axis of teeth instead of obliquely backward as in the other genera  m and ' subequal in size  m ' slightly larger  anterior loop of m ' projecting on inner side as far as middle and posterior loops and falling short of plane of other two on outer side reversing the usual condition zygomatic root of maxillary reaching back to posterior part of m  anterior part in other genera.
Tretomys atavus Aiiiesliiuo.
Fig.
2.
Trctonivs atiwiis Anie.uhiiio Mnniileids Fosiles Repiib.
Argentina ISSit Hi 120 pi.
4'tigs.
10 unci Ua.
Based on fossil fragment of maxillary bone containing molar series and upier incisor from near city of  ordoba Argentine Republic.
Specific characters.
 Most of the characters have been given above in the generic diagnosis.
The molars are implanted squarely one in front of the other the longitudinal axis of each tooth being the same as that of the series collectively.
In the other genera the uiper molars are implanted obliquely the axis of m  and  sloping outward as well as backward from the axis of the series as a whole.
In Tretomys the posterior loop on the inner side and the anterior loop on the outer side of ra  and ' are more largely developed than in the other genera the result being that on each side all of the salient loops of the series end nearly on the same plane.
Ameghino's measurements of the molar series are Series 5 mm.
 m ' 2 mm.
 m '1.6 mm.
 m  1.4 mm.
The upper incisor is 1 mm.
broad and its face is very convex.
Genus HODOMYS' nob.
PI.
IX Figs.
14 7 S and Fig.
H a  e I in text.
Type Ncoloia allcni Merriam Troc.
Biol.
Soc.
Wasli. VII.
.Sept.
1892 Il7li Type from Manzauillo Mexico.
9 Hodomysfrom orfof road and fivg mouse in allusion to the roadmaking liahit of both species.
1894.
233 Generic characters.
 Upper molars much as in xVeotomo ' hut crowns of m  ami with middle transverse loop divided hy deepening of enamel fold on inner side m ' and with four roots each  m ' with three roots  lower molars with enamel folds reaching about halfway across tooth  m  shaped like letter S Fig.
3.
x.5. 
a anil .
Hodnniys alloii.
c and d. H. vctulux.
Xriioviys nclsoui.
a. c. r. Crowns of upper molars b. d f. Crowns of lower molars.
and .
with two salient and one reentrant angle on each side with a tendency toward the subdivision of the anteroexternal loop by the development of a notch or vertical sulcus on its convexity  upper incisors peculiarly excavated apparently by the sharp point of the lower ones leaving a deep cavity behind the enamel face which is bordered laterally by the outer sides of the teeth.
Cranium long and narrow much as in Neotomannsylvanica only narrower  audital bullae small abruptly narrowed anteriorly the narrow part produced obliquely inward much as in Nectomys inner side conspicuously excavated by the carotid canal and foramen which is considerably anterior to middle of bulla  brain case narrow and long sphenopalatine vacuities closed mandible with coronoid notch more nearly vertical than horizontal  condylar ramus high ' Most of tlae accompanyins dcscri
ion is drawn with reference to antithesis with A'roloiiia.
Prolmbly many of the characters aply to Pfyssoplioiux also of which animal unfortunately the craniinn and posterior part of the mandible are unknown.
234 1894. curved strongly upward and inward angle produced backward liehind plane of condyle and strongly inflected  ramus of mandible thickened opposite molar teeth and abruptly narrowed and beveled to incisors.
The principal characters that separate Hodomysfrom Xenomys are arranged antithetically in the following table  XENOMYS.
Posterior part of mandible only moderately expanded short and cut away by deepening of coronoid and infracondylar notches particularly the latter.
Angular process decidedly anterior to plane of condyle.
Condyle overtopping coronoid.
Anterior root of coronoid cutting plane of posterior loop of m 2  Horizontal ramus nearly straight below molar series.
Cranium short.
Squamosal not reaching supraoccipital.
Audital bulht' enormously inflated wheelshaped parallel broadest anteriorly.
Audital bullie much longer than molar series and covering more than twothirds distance from foramen magnum to postpalatal notch.
Carotid canal inconspicuous far behind middle of bulla.
Orbital borders of frontals produced laterally forming a shelflike bead over orbits.
HODOMYS.
Posterior part of long.
mandible large and broadly expanded posteriorly coronoid and infracondylar notches relatively shallow Angular process produced backward behind plane of condyle.
Coronoid overtopping condyle.
Anterior root of coronoid cutting plane of anterior loop of m 3Horizontal ramus decidedly convex downward below molar series.
Cranium long and narrow.
Squamosal articulating unth supraoccipital.
Audital bullae very small subfusiform abruptly narrowed anteriorly and produced obliquely forward toward median line.
Audital bullic much shorter than molar series and covering only about onethird distance from foramen magnum to postpalatal notch.
Carotid canal conspicuous anterior to middle of bulla.
Orbital borders of frontals upturned not projecting over orbits.
XENOMYS Cont..
HODOMYS Coiil..
Preniaxilla' produced antePremaxilhe without wiuglike riorly in winglike exten.ions extensions reaching beyond nasals.
Pterygoid fossa
short as Pterygoid fossa long  twice broad as long.
as long as broad.
Postpalatal notch shorter than Postpalatal notch longer than basisphenoid.
basisphenoid.
Basioccipital very narrow.
Basioccipital broad.
Lower molar series curved Lower molar series straight or strongly outward anteriorly.
nearly straight.
Only two species of Hodomysare known.
Both make extensive inosculating runways among the Agaves and other plants on the brushy side hills where they live.
This habit is unknown in the allied genera Xeotoma and Xenomys.
Neotomailds houses or amasses large piles of sticks cactus spines or other rubbish  Xenomys lives in hollow trees  Hodomysis not known to do either.
Hodomysalleni Meiriam.
PI.
IX figs.
14 and text fig.
3 a ami d. Xfotonia alleni Merriain Proc.
Biol.
Soc.
Washington.
VII Sept. 1892 167lti9Typifrom Manzanillo Mexico.
General characters.
 Size large larger than any known species of Xrotoma  ears rather large tail shorter than head and body blackish sparsely haired the anuulations and scales distinctly visible on both sides.
Color.
 Upper parts from forehead to base of tail deep fulvous or tawnyferruginous  nose and sides of face mousegray tinged with bluish in some specimens under surface whitish the tips of the hair only being white the plumbeous basal part showing through  upper surfaces of feet whitish more or less clouded with dusky  tail blackish all round.
Cranial characters.
 Skull very long and narrow  angular  orbital margins of frontals nearly parallel and strongly upturned with tendency to develop an upturned point opposite middle of orbital fossa interparietal shield quadrate nasals produced and pointed anteriorly truncate or emarginate posteriorly.
Principal characters given under generic diagnosis and not repeated here. 
Measurementx of type taken in flesh.
 Total length 472 mm tail vertebnt 225 hind foot 45 ear 29 in dry skin.
Crania measarementx of tijpe.
 Total length 54 ram  basal length 4.5 basilar length of Hensel 44 zygomatic breadth 27 upper molar series on crowns 10.
Hodomysvetulus sp.
nov. Text fig.
3 c and d. Type from Tehuacan Puebla Mexico.
No.
53f56  ad. U. S. Nat.
Museum Department of Agriculture Collection.
Collected May 8 1893 by E. W. Nelson.
Original number 4784.
General cliaracter.
 This animal bears no close resemblance to any known species except Hodomysalleni from Mazanillo on the opposite side of Mexico with which it shares the remarkable Sshaped last lower molar peculiar audital bulla closed sphenopalatine vacuities and many other characters.
It is much smaller than alleni has a bicolor instead of concolor tail white instead of dusky hind feet and diifers also in cranial characters.
Color.
 Upper parts dull fulvous from point between eyes to rump plentifully mixed with black hairs face gray fore and hind i'eet white  tail bicolor blackish above soiled white beneath  under parts whitish clouded from plumbeous under fur and washed with dull fulvous on sides of belly and in one specimen on breast also.
Cranial characters.
 Skull similar to that of Hodomysdleni but smaller shorter less angular and differing further in the following characters rostrum and nasals shorter  nasals narrower posteriorly interparietal shield lass quadrate and more elongated transversely  incisive foramina shorter falling considerably short of plane of m '   palate proportionally longer  audital bulhe smaller frontals broader posteriorly and less upturned along orbital margins  mandible less expanded posterioidy.
Dental characters.
 Similar to H. alleni but m i broader and shorter the anteroexternal loop larger posterointernal loop less completely divided  m j broader and shorter  more perfectly Sshaped and without trace of anteroexternal sulcus.
ilm.synewuwys taken in flesh.
 Type Total length 30 mm  tail vertebra 106 hind foot 38.
Ear from anterior base 29 in dry skin.
Average measurements of 4 specimens from type locality  Total length 365 tail vertebne 163 hind foot 38.
Cranial measurements of type.
 Total length 47 basal length 41 basilar length of Hensel 39 zygomatic breadth 25  upper molar series on crowns 9.
Mr. Nelson states that this species is rather common about the foot of the low cliHs and rocky ledges on the hillsides east of Tehuacau and that it lives in dense patches of Agave.
He says  It has the habit of making roads about its haunts very much after the nuuiner of X. alleni.
Welldefined trails were found leading along the hillside from rock to rock or to the cover of Agave patches and betAveen neighboring groups of these plants.
Under the shelter of a maguey patch a network of trails could be frequently found by forcing ones way among the spiny leaves.
Like A alleni these animals did not take grain bait and were caught by placing traps in their trails.
No signs of the nest building habit so common in the genus Xeotoma were observed.
Genus XENOMYS Merriam.
PI.
IX figs.
lOlo and text lig.
8 e and and fig.
4.
A't'iomrs Merriam Pmc.
Biol Soc.
Washiugtou VII Sept. l.S2 150103 Type frini HaeieuiUi Magdaleua Coliina Mexico.
Generic characters.
 Skull murine short audital bulla greatly enlarged and inflated broader anteriorly than posteriorly wheelshaped parallel carotid foramen posterior to middle of bulla and inconspicuous  squamosal not reaching supraoccipital but ending anterior to plane of auditory meatus except the slender posterior spicule which reaches over meatus to mastoid  orbital margins of frontals produced laterally forming projecting supraorbital beads  lachrymals large  interparietal large and transversely elongated  premaxilloe produced anteriorly forming a winglike extension on each side of anterior nares angle of mandible short moderately expanded vertically inflected condylar ramus long and high overtopping coronoid process  molars large and heavy  tiaily rooted upper with three roots each lower with two roots each crowns prismatic made up of broadly rounded alternating salient loops and open reentrant angles or interspaces crown of m  shaped in general like letter S but somewhat angular fig.
4j.
Externally Xenomys resembles a sitiall highly colored wood rat with rather soft pelage and a large whitish spot over each eye.
The tail is nearly as long as the head and body.
Nothing is known of the habits of these animals except that they are nocturual and live in hollow trees.
Xenomij.i agrees with Hodomysin haviug the mandibular symphysis rather long straight and uturned  the condylar ramus very long and curving strongly upward and inward the coronoid notch nearly vertical the angle inflected but not produced backward so far as in Hodomis  the incisors slender meeting in a single sharp point the molars very large and m  shaped like the letter S. Xoionuis differs from Hodomij. in having the mandille greatly reduced posteriorly the condylar ramus longer and more slender overtping the coronoid and both coronoid and infracondylar notches larger at the expense of the posterior part of the ramus which is greatly reduced thereby.
In Xenomya the anterior base of the coronoid process arises more anteriorly from the horizontal ramus hiding the whole of the last molar and posterior loop of the middle molar while in Hodoinys it arises further back exposing the anterior loop of the last molar.
In Ncotoma the line commonly falls between m 2 and   in Ptissophorus according to Ameghino's figure it apparently is further back exposing most of m 3.
Xenomys nelsoni Mcrriaiii.
PL IX ligs.
1013  and text tijs. 3. f and  and fiS4.
Xenomys icsoii Mfrriani Proc.
Biol.
Soc.
Washington VII Sept. 1803 161163.
Typf from Hacienda Magdalena Colinia Mexieo.
General chayacters.
 Size about that of a half or twothirds grown rat or nearly equaling Neotomaxicana tail a little shorter than head and body well haired particularly above face ornamented by a distinct whitish spot over each eye and a less distinct one under each ear color of upper parts rich fulvous under parts white ears about half as long as the head and nearly naked sparsely clothed with fine inconspicuous hairs whiskers reaching back to shoulders fur soft.
Color.
 Upper parts fulvous or tawnyrufous palest on the head and brightest over the rump flanks and hips back sparsely mixed with blacktipped hairs an illdefined dusky ring around each eye above which is a whitish spot about as large as the eye itself a less distinct whitish spot just below the inferior root of the ear upper lips white the white color extending up on the cheeks more than halfway to the eyes sides of face below eyes and ears washed with fulvous whiskers blackish tail concolor dark undierbrown all round  upjer surfaces of feet whitish  more or less clouded with dusky varying considerably in the three specimens under parts creamy white to the very roots of the hairs except along the sides of the belly where the basal part of the fur is plumbeous  line of 1894.
239 fleinarkation between colors of upper and lower parts everywhere sharp and distinct.
Cranial and dental characters.
 Most of the cranial and dental characters have been already given under the head of the genus and need not le here repeated.
The rostrum is short and the ascending branches of the premaxilhe hardly reach as far back as the nasals.
Molars large and broad  m  more than half as broad as long and Fig.
4.
A'eiwiij's nelsoni Type.
Upper and lower molar crowns x 7.
curving outward anteriorly  m j with anterior half bent strongly outward the anterior loop looking outward instead of forward m y Sshaped with a small and nearly closed triangle on outer side of convexity thus having an anterior loop projecting inward a posterior loop projecting outward and a reentrant angle or loop on each side the outer of which is the shallower and more posterior in position  both of the reentrant angles are directed obliquely forward as well as toward the opposite side of the tooth for further details see fig.
4.
Measurement. of type taken in flesh.
 Total length 300 mm tail vertebrte 143 hind foot 30 ear 22 in dry skin.
Cranial measurements of type.
 Total length 40.5 basal length 35 basilar length of Hensel 33 zygomatic breadth 21 upper molar series on crowns 8.
Genus NEOTOMA Say and Ord.
Neotomay and Ord Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. IV pt.
2 1825.
345 346 pl.s.
XXI and XXII Type Mns ftoridana Ord from eastern Florida.
Generic characters.  Crown of in 3 composed of two transverse  Tile character.s here given are selected with reference to antithesis with P'ssopioriis Hodoniys and Xenoniys.
240 1894. loops with the addition in rare cases of a narrow anteroexternal hop never Sshaped fig.
5 m ' and witli middle loop undivided reaching completely across tooth molar series relatively short  condylar ramus low and directed obliquely backward  coronoid notch horizontal or nearly so nearly vertical in Xcnomys and Hodoiijs  angle of mandible only moderately inflected  symhysis relatively short and sloping strongly forward.
The accompanying illustration fig.
5 shows the two extremes in pattern of m '  and differences in the crowns of the other molars also.
The dominant type of m ' throughout the genus is similar to that of N. tenuicauda fig.
5 c a member of the mexicana series.
Fig.
5. a and r. Upper molar rrowiis.
A and d. Lower molar crowns.
a. h. NeoLoma deserloruni Merriani.
Death Valley t'alif. No.
34138. c.
xf. 
c. d. Neoloma tenuicauda Merriam.
Sierra Nevada Jalisco Mexico.
45629 .
Type x 5.
Neotoma not in any sense a highly specialized type but it is a very compact genus its most divergent branches hardly meriting subgeneric recognition.
Some of its members point strongly toward derivation from Hidiaij as may be seen in the iVecfo.slike audital bulhe and other cranial characters of Neoioma penntylvanlca and in the high upturned condyle of the uexicau group but the inmiediate antecedent forms leading up to Neotomaom lLdoniij.
' or some similar type are not known.
The oldest forms of which we have any knowledge those from the cave deposits of Missouri Kentucky Virginia and Pennsylvania are fully modernized species of NeofoiiKi rojer.
Of the living species N. pennaylvanica may be regarded as the most primitive since it po.ssesses several characters not shared by the others that jioint back to Hodoru.is.
Moreover poDisylviinlca is more nearly intermediate between the two subgenera  Neotomaoper and Teoiioma  than any other known species indicating that 1894.
NATITHAL SCIENCES OF PHIJ.ADELPHIA.
241 the differentiation of the trunk line into these two groups proceeded from a form at least very shuWar to pen Hsylvanica.
X. penii.iijlvanica resembles Iodiis in the peculiar shape of the audital bulhc which are abruptly narrowed anteriorly in the nearly closed sphenopalatine vacuities in the posterior production of the angle of the madible and in the strong inward and upward curvature of the condylar ramus.
It resembles Teonoma in the form of the sagittal area which is kiteshaped narrow sharply angular broadest far back on or near plane of interparietal whence its sides curve abruptly inward and backward to the sides of the interparietal shield.
It resembles Teonoma further in the tendency to closure of the sphenopalatine vacuities'' the great length of the rostrum and the presence of a long troughlike depression which occupies the entire length of the frontal and hinder part of the nasals.
That the absence of the sphenopalatine vacuity is a primitive character or perhaps it would be better to say that the presence of a vacuity is a modern character  is indicated by the following facts 1  The ancestral genus Hodomijs has no vacuity  2 Xenomyx an early offshoot from the primitive Xeotomine stem has very small vacuities  3 Teonoma an older type than Xeotoma proper has the vacuities closed or partly open  4 Xeotoma jenniylvaiica the least differentiated known member of the modern genus has the vacuities partly closed  and finally 5 some of the modernized species have the vacuities closed in early life though fully open in the adult.'''
In its geographic distribution the genus is restricted so far as known to North America north of Dueiias Guatemala.
' The species are most numerous in Mexico and the southern United States.
The total number of species here recognized including the subfossil Y.
nuuisfc is 22 in addition to which 10 subspecies are admitted.
It is probable that a few additional species will be added and that some of the members of the mexicana group will be reduced to subspecific rank.
'But there is this dittereiiee  The thin wins r lamella of hone whieli closes or jKirtly eloses the vacuity in TcoiuDiia is derived wholly from the palatine wliile in X. poinsylvanica t is made up almost equally'of palatine and lterygoil. In the latter species the suture between the palatine and pteryjoid moieties is on the plane of the suture ietween the basispheuoid and presphenoid.
'' Allen has recently shown this to le the case mY.
niicropus Bull.
Am.
Mus.
Nat.
Hi.st.. N. Y. VI 1894 23i.
' The iuatemala species JS'.erriiiwa Tomes has not been seen by me and may not be a true Neotorna.
17 In 1848 J. E. Gray separated the bushy tailed from the round tailed species proposing the name Teoiioma for the former.
In a recent communication I adopted the name for a subgenus and defined the resulting two subgenera as follows  Subgenus NEOTOMA Say and Ord 1825. iXfoloma Say and Ord .louru.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
I'liila. IV pt.
2.
1825 345 316 pi.
XXI XXII.
Type Miisfloridana Ord from eastern Florida.
Tail commonly round scanthaired and taering but in one species moderately bushy hind feet small or moderate.
Rostrum of moderate length not more than onethird the length of cranium sagittal area usually rounded the broadest art always considerably anterior to plane of interparietal whence the sides curve gradually backward to interparietal shield sphenopalatine vacuities always open.
Subgenus TEONOMA Gray 1843.
Teoiioiiia Ciray.
Tist Spef.
lainin.
IJritisli .Mu.scum 1843 117.
Type.
Xcotoma cincrca druinmoiidi Richardson from the Rocky Mts.
in lat.
57X.
Tail very large bushy and somewhat distichous like a squirrel's hind feet very large.
Rostrum much elongated measuring more than onethird the total length of cranium posterior roots of zygomata widely sreading sagittal area long narrow and sharply angular its broadest part far back ou or nearly on plane of anterior border of interparietal whence the sides bend abruptly back to interparietal shield sphenopalatine vacuities closed or open.
In the same communication I proposed for conveuieuce in arranging the species to subdivide Neotoina roper into four minor groups none of which is worthy of the distinction of subgeneric rank.
These groups may be desigiuited from a typical species in each as follows lithe leucodon group 2 the me.rV'fnf group  othe deaerfonuii group and 4 the irizoita group.
In a recent paper on Cranial Varlatioiiii in ycotuina niicropas' Dr. J.
A. Allen criticises my use of the color of the teeth as a subordinate character and goes on to state that the range of individual variation in color in his series of X. niirropiis covers the whole range of variation for the genus.
His subsequent remarks show 15 Bull.
Am.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist. N. Y. VI Aug. 3 1S4.
213.
244. a total mi.
'apprehension of my meaning for instead of speaking of the color of the teeth themselves he refers to the dirty coating on the outside of the teeth.
He says The black coloring consists to a large extent of a superticial incrustation which tends to scale off in flakes in the prepared skull and its absence apparently may be due sometimes to removal in the process of cleaning the skull for the caliinet.
In other words the blackness is to some extent an accidental or pathological condition due probably more or less to the particular character of the food or to the health of the animal.
But for this perverse interpretation of my very plain statement it would not be necessary to explain that when I said color of teeth white or nearly white I meant the teeth  the osteodentine and enamel  not the dirty deposit that sometimes collects on the outside of the teeth.
But after all the peculiarity is one of little consequence and was only mentioned by me after enumerating the characters by which members of the leacodon' group may be distinguished from others.
The following list of the 22 species and 10 subspecies recognized by me contains under each name 1 reference to the original description 2 the principal synonymy . the type locality 4 the known geographic distribution.
Descriptijns of the species are not added because they are included in a more formal and fully illustrated revision of the genus which will he published later.
Neotomaucodon .Mcriiam.
ycoloiiia h'ltcndon Morriaiu Proc Biol.
Soc.
Wash. IX .Tuly .
' lsi4 120.
121.
Type loculitij  San Luis Poto.si Mexico.
Geoijraphir distribution.
 Upper part of Lower Sonoran Zone in Central Mexico from Berriozabal Zacatecas easterly to southern San Luis Potosi and tlience southeast to Perote Vera Cruz.
Neotomatifrons Mciriam.
.Wotuiiia laifroiis .Mcrriaiii.
Proc.
Piol.
Soc.
Wasli. IX .July 2 lSt4.
121.
Type bmditij  Querendaro lichoacan Mexico.
Getxraphic distrihidion.
 Valley of Querendaro south side of Lake Cuitzeo Michoacau Mexico range unknown.
 Named as stated after '.
lcucudoi a central member of the group not because all the species have white teeth.
Neotomacropus Baiid.
Xeoldiiia nii ropits Baird Prou.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
I'hila. April 1855.
333 from Charco E.scoudido Taiiiaulipas.'
 Mammals of N.
Am. 1857 492495.
Allen Bull.
Am.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist. N. Y. Ill No.
2 June 1891 282285.
JVeotoina micropus caiiescens Allen Bull.
Am.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist. 111.
No.
2 June 1891 28.5287 from N. Beaver Creek Pan Handle of Oklahoma.
Type locality  Charco Escoudido'' Tamaulipas Mexico 100 kilometers or H2 miles west of Matamoras and 44 kilometers or 27 miles south of Keyiiosa. 
Geographic distribution. Eiiistern subdivision of Lower Sonoran Zone from San Fernando Tamaulipas northward to the Pan Handle of Oklahoma and westward to the Staked Plains  in the Rio Grande Valley west to El Paso and in the Pecos Valley to Eddy New Mexico.
Neotomaileyi Merriani.
Neotomaileyi Merriani Proc.
Biol.
Soc.
Wash. IX .Inly 2 1804 123.
Type locality  Valentine Nebraska.
Geographic distribntion.
 Probably Great Plains subdivision of Upper Sonoran Zone in southern South Dakota Nebraska and Kansas.
Neotomaoridana Ord.
Mas flondana Jrd Bull.
Soe.
Philomath Dee.
1818 181182 Type locality  Florida.
Geographic distribution.
 Austroriparian Fauna of South Atlantic and Gulf Coasts and lower Mississippi Valley.
Neotomannsylvanica Stone.
Neoliiiiia pciiiisrvanica Stone Proe.
Acad.
Nat.
Sei.
Phila. Fel.
1.S93 KilS.
Type locality  South ountain Cumberland Co.  Pennsylvania.
Geographic distribution.
 Allegheny Mountain region of Pennsylvania and probably the whole of the southern Allegheuies north to southern New York.
Neotomagister Baird.
Xcntiiina iiuiifislcr Baird.
Mam.
X.
Am.. 1857 498.
Type locality Bone Caves near Carlisle between North and South Mountains Pennsylvania. '
Two specimens were mentioneil in the original description an adult male from Charco Escondido and a veryyouni sjtecimen in jxior condition from Santa Rosalia.
Chihuahua.
The oririnal desciiption is hased wholly on the Charco Hscondilo specinun which theri'fore must le taken as the type of tlu' species.
The Santa Kusalia animal is somewhat ahi'rrant as shown ly additional specimens.
Geoiraphic lUstrihufloit.
 Pleistocene cave deposits of Pennsylvania and Virginia.
Remains assumed to belong to the same species have been found in caves in Kentucky and in the Ozark Hills of Missouri.
Neotomaxicana Bainl.
. iiliiiiia iitA ii ia Bainl Proc.
Aal. Nat.
Sci.
Pliila.. VII 1855 333.
Type locality Mountains near Chihuahua Mexico.
Geocraphie distribntlon.
 Hills and lower mountain slopes usually pine covered of Transition Zone in eastern New Mexico southwestern Texas Davis Mountains to Paisano and Chihuahua Mexico.
Neotomaxicana bullata Mcriiani.
eoloia uwiraiia hiiUaia Morriam Proc.
Hiul.Soc.
Wasli.. IX.
.Inly .
1894.
122123.
Type locality Santa Catalina Mountains Arizona.
Geographic didribidioji.
 Known only from the Santa Catalina lountains in southern Arizona.
Neotomanetorum .hiiiam.
Xt'ooiiia yiufloriim Mt'rriaiii Proc.
Biol.
Soc.
Wa.sli. VllI .July 31 1893 111.
112.
Type locality  San Francisco iNIountain Arizona.
Geojraphie diMriJnitiou.
 The pine covered plateau of Arizona Transition Zone.
Neotomanuicauda Mcrriam.
Xeolonia iciiuicaitda Merriani Proc.
Biol.
Soc.
Wash. 'II Sept. 29 1892 lt9 170.
Type locality North Slope of Sierra Nevada de Colima.
Georraphic distribution.
 Sierra Nevada de Colima Jalisco Mexico probably in Transition Zone.
Neotomaizabae Nlerriam.
Neotomaizaha Merriani Proc Biol.
Soc.
Wash. IX .July 2 1894 122.
Type locality Mt.
Orizaba Puebla Mexico.
Gencraphic diMribution.
 Mt.
Orizaba Mt.
Malinche and Cofte de Perote Mexico probably in Transition Zone.
Neotomalviventer Merriam.
Xfolnma fiilz'iz'eiitfr .Merriani Proc.
Biol.
Soc.
Wash. IX July 2 1894 121 122.
Type locality Toluca Valley Mexico.
Geographic dixtrihution.
 Tohica Valley Mexico.
Neotomarquata Ward.
XeooDia torquata Ward Am.
Naturalist XXV.
Feb. 1891.
KiO.
161.
Tijpe locality An abandoned tunnel between Tetela del Volcan and Zaeualpan Amilpas Nlorelos lexico.
Geographic distribution..  Mountains of the states of INIexico and Morelos south of the valleys of Mexico and Toluca.
Neotomarruginea Toines.
Neotomarruoinca Tomes rr'.
Zdol.
Soc Londmi.
ISOl 282284.
Type locality Duenas Guatemala.
Geographic distribution.
 Region about Duenas Guatemala.
Range unknown.
Note.
 I have not seen N. ferruginea it may not belong here at all.
Neotomallax Meiriam.
.'otoiiia J'atlax Merriam Proc.
Biol.
Soc.
Wash. IX .July 2 1S94.
12.3 124.
Type locality Gold Hill Boulder Co. Colorado.
Geographic dutribufion.Kisteru base of Rocky Mountains in Colorado up to about 7000 feet altitude where it is replaced by N. orolestes.
Neotomayanti Merriam.
Neotomaryaiiti lcrnam.
Am.
Nat.
XXI No.
2 Fch.
1887 191li3.
Type locality Cerros Island Lower California.
Geographic distribution.
 Cerros Island Mexico off Lower California.
Neotomascipes Baird.
Neotia J'li.uipes Cooper MS.  Baird Mam.
N. Am.
 1857 495 490  from Peta1 lima Calif. .
Neotoiia jnojiocliroura Rhoads Am.
Naturalist XXN'lll .Tan.
1894 67 ti8 from Grants Pass Josephine Co. regon.
Neotomaleudens True Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Museum.
XVIJ No.
1006.
1 2 Author's separates issued June 27 1894 from Marin 'o. Calif. .
Ttjpe locality Petaluma Sonoma Co. California.
Geographic distribution.
 Coast region of California and Oregon from a little south of ISIonterey Bay northward to the Columbia River Transition Zone.
Neotomascipes macrotis Thomas.
Neotomacrotis Tluimas Ann.
and Fag.
Nat.
Hist. 6th ser. XII.
Sept. 1S93 234235 from Han Diego California.
Neotomaacrulis simplex True Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Museum XVII No.
1006 2 Author's separates issued June 27 1894 from Old Ft. Tejou California.
Type locality  San Diego California.
1894.
NATFKAI.
SCTENC'ES OF IMI irADELPHIA.
247 Geoyrapliir disfrlbutioii.
 C'oast region includiug coast raugesj of California south of Monterey Bay in uper Sonoran and Transition Zones.
Neotomascipes streatori Mcrriaiu.
tiiiiiia 'us'i's srfaliiri Mcrriaiii Proc.Hiol.
Soc.
Wash.. IX.
.Iiilv .
ls4 124.
Type loealii tj  arbondale Amador Co. California.
GeograpJiic disfrllndloii.
 West slope of Sierra Nevada in California including mountain region generally of northeast California except higher elevations.
Upper Sonoran and Tran.ition Zones.
Neotomascipes dispar Mcniaiii.
Xcofoiiia fiS ifyrs dispar AriMriam.
Ii'oc.
Biol.
Sue.
Wash. IX .Inly '.i 1SH4 124.
12.'.
Tijpe lomUtij  Lone Pine Owens Valley California.
Georapltic didrlbiitiov.
 East base of Sierra Nevada in Owens Valley California and probably along western edge of Mohave Desert also.
Upper Sonoran Zone.
Neotomasertorum Mtrriain.
tioijia dis ildiiini Merriain.
rroc.
Hiol.
Sue.
Wasli. IX .Inly 2 ls94 12.
i 12i.
Type locality.
Furnace Creek Death Valley California.
Geographic Iidiihiifoi.
 Mohave and Colorado Deserts and Sonoran deserts generally of eastern  'alifornia Nevada and western Utah north to East Humboldt alley Nevada and Kelton Utah.
Upper and lower Sonoran Zones.
Neotomasertorum sola lerriaui.
Xeotoma desertorum sola Merriain Proo.
Biol.
Soc.
Wash. IX July 2 1894 12.
Type locaUhj  San Emigdio Kern Co. California.
Geofrapliic didriniflmi.
 Head of San Joauin Valley California.
Neotomatermedia Khoails.
Xtnfoiiia iultrincdia Khoads Am.
Xatiiralist XXVIII .Ian.
1 lsi4 liil TO.
from Dulzura San Diejio 'i. Califiiniia .
Xcotouia calioinita Price Pnu.
 'alif.
Acad.
Sci. 2d scr. III.
.May l 1S4.
l.'4I5 pi.
XI from Bear N'allcy San Benito Co.. California.
Xcolonia intrricdia iilz'a Khoads Am.
Naturalist.
XX'III.
.Ian.
1.
ISiU.
till from Banning.
California.
Xeoloma oiusia True Proc.
U.
S Xat.
Museum XVII.
Xo.
1000 2 Author's separates issued .lune 27th 1S94.
fromCarri.o treik San Diego .
'o. California.
Type locality Dulzura San Diego Co. California.
Geofiraphic distribution.
 The typical form inhabits the valleys and lower slopes of the coast ranges of C'alifornia south of Monterey Bay specimens examined from Bear Aalley San Benito Cb.
 Priest Valley Monterey Cb.
 San Luis Obispo San Fernando San Bernardino Mt.
and Valley San Jacinto Valley and Dulzura.
A slightly paler form subspecies gilva Rhoads  venvsta True inhabits San Gorgonio Pass and the western edge of the Colorado Desert specimens examined from Whitewater Ranch Palm Springs Cabazon Carrizo Creek Baregas Spring and Vallecitas.
Upper Sonoran.
Neotomatermedia melanura Mcrriam.
A'roiia iitnt'dia iiirlaiiiira Mcrrimi.
Proc.
Riol.
Sor.
Wash. IX July 2 1894 13 127.
Type locality Ortiz Sonora Mexico.
Geographic didrihition.
 Sonora Mexico near west base of Sierra Madre.
Upper Sonoran.
Neotomatermedia albigula Hartley.
Neotomahiiihi Hartley Pn.c.
Cal.
Acad.
Sci. 21 ser.. Ill May ft 1894 157159 pi.
XII.
Type locality 'Qmiy of Fort Lowell Arizona.
Geographic didrlbution.
 Lower Sonoran Zone in southern and western Arizona.
Neotomatermedia angusticeps Merriam.
Neotomatermedia ano'iistirrps Merriam Prcic.
Binl.
Sue.
Wash. IX .Tuly 2 1894 127.
Type locality S. W. corner Grant Co. New Mexico only 4 miles from Mexican boundary.
Geographic diMribntioii.
 Southwestern New Mexico and doubtless also adjacent valleys of N. W. Chihuahua Mexico in Lower Sonoran Zone.
Neotomaizonae Merriani.
Neotomaizojiw Merriam Proc.
Biol.
Soc.
Wash. VIII July 31 1893110 111.
'Neotomapida Thomas Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist. fith ser. XII Sept. 1893 235 from I' tab.
Txjpe locality Keama Canon Apache Co. Arizona.
Geographic didributioii.
 Tusayan or Moki region in northeastern Arizona northwestern New Mexico southeastern Utah and probably southwestern Colorado.
Sonoran.
Neotomanerea Ord. 
' .lis ciniiiis Ord.
Guthrit's Geosrapliy.
2d km.
Ed. II 1815 292 bast'd 11 desriitiiii of Lewis and Clark Paul Allen Ed. 1814 Vol.
I pp.
289 290. 
Tiipe localiii Near Great Falls Montana.
Georvapkic dlstribHtlon.
 Northern Rocky Mt.
region in Transition and Boreal Zones from Utah and Wyoming northward  east to Black Hills and plains of North Dakota west of JMissouri River west in southern British Columbia to Cascade Range and south throughout the Sierra Nevada to Mt.
Whitney in southern California.
Neotomanerea occidentalis Raird.
Xt'ouiita occidoilais Cooper MS. Baird I'roc.
Aead.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila.. VII 185..
335.
Xi'olonia cinerea occidentalis Merriam Mammals of Idalio X.
Am.
Faiuui Xo.
5 Auk.
1891.
.8.
Tpe Jocalittj  Shoalwater Bay Washington.
Geofrapiic disti'ibutlon.
 Pacific coast region of Oregon and Washington and thence easterly over the lava beds to the Snake Plains of eastcentral Idaho  Transition and Upper Sonoran Zones.
Neotomanerea drummondi Richardson.
Jfyo.iHS drmnniondii Riiliardson Zool.
.lourii. Ill 1828 517 518.
Neotomaitniniondii Riehaidson Fauna BorialiAni. 1829 137140.
Type locality Rocky Mts. British Columbia lat.
57.
Geographic distribution.
 Eastern British Columbia and adjacent parts of western Canada north of the range of cinerea.
Exact distribution unknown.
Boreal probably Hudsonian.
Neotomaolestes .Merriam.
Xeotonia Ofolesles .Merriam Prof. Riol.
Soc.
Wash. IX.
July 2 1894 128.
Tiipe loealiti  Saguache Valley 20 miles west of Saguache Colorado.
Geographic distribution.
 Rocky Mts.
of Colorado and New Mexico southeast of range of X cinerea.
Boreal.
250 1.S94.
Species and Subspecies of Neotoma
leucodon latifrons niicropus leucodou group  haileyi floridana enusylvanica  niagister mexicana hullata pinetonini tenuicauda orizabai fiilvi venter fallax fuscipes  ruacrotis  streatori ' ' dispar bryauti 
ferrugiuea  
torquata' Subgenus NEOTOINIA  mexicana group  desertorum desertorum group  intermedia sola nielanura albigula angusticeps arizonie group  arizonie .. 1 rnT.xTnT .
cinerea group Suberenus TEONOINIA   p cinerea  occidentalis  drumniondi orolestes ' A' torqiiata a.ncritiiiifit I have not sceu hence their rehitions may licit be as here iudieated.
1894.
XATURAI.
SCIENCES OF PHILAPET.PHIA.
'251 ILLUSTRATIONS.
PLATE IX.
Figures natural size. 
Figs.
14 7 8.
Hodomysalleni 9 44631 jNIanzanillo Mexico.
1 skull from above 2 same from left side 3 same from below  4 mandible from left side  7 same from below  8 same from above.
Figs.
5 5 9.
Xeotoma.
5 mandible from left side  5 same from below  9 same from above.
Figs.
1013.
Xenomy. iieJioiii  45287 Hacienda INIagdaleua Colima Mexico.
10 skull from above 11 same from left side 12 same from below  13 mandible from left side.
TEXT FIOURIS. Fig.
1  b '.
Pfysophoriis eleaii. from Ameghino.
a right ramus of mandible outer side.
Nat size.
b   i  inner side.
Enlarged.
c crowns of right lower molars.
d Sigmodon hispidiis crowns of right lower molars.
Enlarged.
e Hodomysalleni a u a   a Fig.
2.
Tretomys atavus left upper molars enlarged from Ameghino.
Fig.
3  and b IIodomy. alleni.
 crowns of left upper molars x 5.
b    lower molars.
' and .
Hodomysvettdus.
c crowns of left upper molars x 5. 
d    lower molars.
e and .
Xenomys nelsoni.
e crowns of left upper molars x 5.
    lower molars.
Fig.
4.
Xeiomy. iielsoni.
Type No.
i' S  ad.
Hacienda Magdalena Colima Mexico.
a upper molar series x 7.
b lower molar series.
Fig.
5  and h. Xeotojiui desertonnn.
Death Valley California No.
34138  ad.
x 5.
a upper molar series.
b lower molar series.
c and c.
Neotomamdcamhi.
Type No.
45 i29 9 Sierra Nevada de Colima Jalisco Mexico.
x5.
c upper molar series.
 lower molar series.
Note.
 The accompanying illustrations belong to the U. S. Department of Agriculture.
They are here used by courtesy ot Dr. Chas.
W. Dabney Jr. Asst.
Secretary of Agriculture.
