CONTRIBUTIONS TO A KNOWLEDGE OF THE Hymenoptera OF BRAZIL.
No.
1 SCOLIID.
BY WILLIAM J.
FOX.
The explorations of Herbert H. Smith have done more to extend our knowledge of the insect fauna of Tropical America than those of any other person with the possible exception of the late HenryWalter Bates.
His work in Mexico for the Biologla Centrali Americana and for the West India Committee has given him an extended reputation  but it remains for tlie classifying of his South American collections to show the real extent of his labors in the field and forest.
It has been my good fortune to have IMr.
Smith's collection of fossorial hymenoptera placed in my hands for identification and study and its size is indicated by the number of species contained in the present paper on the Scoliidse which includes no less than thirty species besides some half dozen species of the genus Tiphia which in consequence of many faulty descriptions of South American forms I have been obliged to leave undetermined.
In 18781875 Mr. Smith worked alone on the Amazons and the Santarem material was then gathered.
In 18811886 accompanied by his wife and two assistants another journey was made.
Going first to Pant he and his wife made a flying trip to Santarem and then down the coast stopping a week at Pernambuco and several months at Rio de Janeiro  from the latter place they went to Entre Rios.
Six months were spent in Rio Grande do Sul  but there are no hymenoptera in the collection from that place.
By steamer they proceeded up the Paraguay to Corumba and Cuyab.
Headquarters were established at Chapadaand there four years were spent.
Ad interim Mr. Smith returned to Rio de Janeiro for a year leaving his wife and one assistant in the interior.
After finally leaving Chapada they made a canoe journey on the Upper Paraguay to Pedra de Amolas Pacoval etc. but most of the time was here given to geological and ethnological work.
Subsequently several weeks were spent at Corumba and Piedra Blanca before returning to the United States.
Mr. Smith has khidly furnished me with the following notes on localities visited as far as they relate to the hymenoptera.
Santarem.
A town at the junction of the Tabajos with the Amazon.
Its immediate vicinity is more or less open land with scattered low trees and a thin grass growth  the type of vegetation called campo in Brazil.
Most of the hymenoptera labeled Santarem were however collected a few miles inland or down the Amazon at the settlements of Panema Maruru and Taperinha where most of the land is covered with heavy forest broken by a few clearings.
The soil both of campo and forest is sandy.
The climate is moderately warm for a region so near the equator and moist though not extremely so.
Monte Alegre is in campo land very similar to Santarem  it is on the opposite or northern side of the Amazon.
Specimens marked Pernambuco are from the San Francisco plantation some miles inland  a clearing in forest  land hilly and soil clay.
Rio de Janeiro.
Land originally forest.
No specimens were collected above 2500 ft. alt.
Entre Rios in the State of Rio de Janeiro is on the Parabyba do Sul River back of the Organ Mountains.
The soil is clay covered with low and somewhat open forest climate rather dry.
Mr. Smith says   The insects of Entre Rios I have found resemble those of Chapada and Corumba rather than those of Rio.
Corumbd in the State of Matto Grosso on the western bank of the Paraguay close to the confines of Bolivia.
The climate dry and hot  the vegetation open  dry forest full of cacti and other thorny plants.
The opposite side of the Paraguay where some collections were made these are marked  lowland  is in the great floodplain  a vast semiswampy region flooded every year during several months.
This is the region known to geographers as Lake Xaraes or better the Xaraes Marshes also written Charaes or Jaraes.
Piedra Blanca or Pedra Branca a small settlement and customhouse just within the boundary of Bolivia on a lake opening into the Paraguay and only four miles from Corumba.
The land is low and damp and covered with heavy forest very different from the region about Corumba.
Pacoval and Pedra de Amolas are settlements on the Paraguay above Corumba on the edge of the floodplain but backed by rocky hills  land open or forest.
Cuyabd is the capital of Matto Grosso on the River Cuyaba a subbranch of the Paraguay  soil dry and stony with campo growth  climate dry and hot.
Citchoeira is just above Cuyaba on low.
semiswampy laud.
Chapada.
Here the greater part of the collection was made.
It is an Indian villaire thirtv miles northeast of Cuvaba on the plateau stretching from the southern tributaries of the Amazon to the floodplains of the Paraguay and is about 2700 ft. above sea level.
The land in the immediate vicinity of the village is clayey or stonv.
Many of the specimens marked from here are from the neighboring settlements of Abrilonga Gloria etc. several hundred feet lower and on sandy soil.
All this region has a varied vegetation  stretches of open land or campo and semiforest are interspersed with large patches of heavy forest.
The climate is never very warm mean at Chapada 72 F. and there are cold snaps in June July and August when the thermometer frequently sinks to 40 or lower.
These cold snaps are caused by southerly winds which as Mr. Smith states he has proved are the same as the  pamperos which are so destructive to shipping on the Rio de la Plata.
The latitude of Chapada is about 148'.
The hymenoptera from this place were largely collected on flowers about the open lands and near the streams where many specimens were gathered in muddy places.
To quote from a letter of June 16 1896 from Mr. Smith  I cannot say that the collection of fossorial hymenoptera is a particularly good one.
The best work was done at Chapada  but even there most of our time was given to other branches and I was much interrupted.
In my opinion the hymenoptera of Brazil are hardly touched.
The rule in the tropica with all orders of insects is that a few species are common while a great majority are rare and require a long and patient collecting to amass a reasonably good representation.
Probably the Scoliidse are as well represented as any because most of the species are large and conspicuous.
They have a very peculiar and almost indescribable odor.
I found them most common on flowers.
The Scoliidie are as follows  Xyzine flavopicta Sm.
Rio de Janeiro Xovember  Corumba February and April  Chapada March and November.
Four female and seven male specimens.
Burmeister's M. dujjlicata is a variety of this species.
Myzine emarginata n. sp.
9 .
 Black  basal twothirds of mandibles  tibiae tarsi and apex of femora reddish  a transverse medially enlarged line across front a narrower one across occiput  line on pronotum posteriorly and a spot on each side anteriorly spot on dorsulum medially small one near tegulse line on scutellum and metanotum tegulse at base triangular spot on mesopleurie a large one on each posterolateral angle of middle segment and a small elongate one above in the middle rarely absent spot on fore femora beneath near apex spot on medial and hind femora above near apex this spot sometimes extending on the lower surface fore tibise externally broad transverse band on first dorsal segment sometimes emarginate anteriorly in the middle the second entirely except a narrow line at base and a transverse medial line these lines united so as to form a low X the medial one not extending to the sides and apex of second third and fifth with a narrow thrice emarginate line at apex yellow that on the fifth irregular  body sparsely clothed with griseous pubescence  front with large separated punctures smooth medially those of the vertex and occiput very sparse  clypeus rather sharply carinated down the middle pronotum and dorsulum much more sparsely with large punctures those of the scutellum and mesopleurae closer  middle segment above finely punctured in the middle somewhat roughened posterior face above and at the sides with coarse transverse wrinkles at apex the wrinkles are longitudinal sides very finely and obliquely striated  first dorsal segment punctured at the sides the second with fine sparse punctures strong at sides punctures of segments 3 and 4 fine and closer of the fifth stronger second ventral with large sparse punctures the remaining ventrals finely punctured at base coarsely at apex  pygidial area covered with strong longitudinally parallel striae the apex narrowly reddish  wings light fusco hyaline with a broad fuscous streak running from stigma to apex of superiors.
Length 1617 mm.
Chapada March to May.
A series of males collected at Chapada and Corumba April I place here with some doubt.
 .
 Black  abdomen iridescent  clypeus mandibles except apex inner orbits spot on scape beneath one over each antennae line on anterior and posterior margin of pronotum that on anterior margin interrupted medially dorsulum medially spot on scutellum and metanotum large spot on mesopleurae anteriorly and a small one posteriorly two parallel spots on upper surface of middle segment.
posterolatei'al angles of the latter spot on all the coxe beneath and' above on the posterior pairs femora except base remainder of legs except stripe on tibiae beneath and a ring at apex of tarsal joints a thrice eniarginate fascia at apex of dorsals 16 the first broadest the last interrupted medially and a elongate spot on each side of ventrals 25 all yellow  wings hyaline faintly dusky at apex stigma testaceous  antennae but little longer than the combined length of head and thorax  front rather strongly and closely punctured the occiput much more finely so middle segment above in the middle strongly punctured the posterior face closely and transversely striatopunctate on the sides.obliquely and more finely so  abdomen above with rather strong separated punctures beneath the punctures a little finer and sparser.
Length 1517.
This sex is very like the  of flavopida but is as a rule larger spots on posterolateral angles of the middle segment larger abdominal fascise thrice emarginate and the sculpture of the middle segment is less coarse.
The spotted upper surface of middle segment is constant in all but two of the twentytwo specimens before me.
Myzine frontalis Burm.
One specimen.
Corumbii April.
Myzine radiata n. sp.
9 .
 Black  abdomen iridescent  spot on each side of clypeus at base of each antenna inner orbits two dots on metanotum and a small spot on each side of the first dorsal segment yellow  tibiie tarsi mandibles and tegulse in part obscurely rufotestaceous  clypeus with fairly strong punctures on each side in the middle longitudinally raised or carinated and impunctate  front and occiput with large separated punctures which ai'e finer along the occipital margin  region including the ocelli almost impunctate  scape distinctly punctured  pronotum and dorsulum with strong though not very deep punctures the posterior portion of dorsulum however and the scutellum are longitudinally rugosopunctate  sides of prothorax strongly and obliquely striated  mesopleure with the punctures deeper and more even than on pronotum  upper surface of middle segment at base microscopically punctured transversly strigose posteriorly posterior face with unusually coarse wrinkles orf olds radiating rather evenly from apex and covering the entire surface and running into less coarse oblique strise on the sides calcaria and spines of legs white  dorsal segments 14 rather finely and evenly punctured the fifth more strongly the base of 3 and 4 transversely smooth  ventrals with a series of strong punctures before apical margins from which pale hairs project otherwise sparsely punctured pygidial area longitudinally and evenly striated  pubescence of body pale a rather prominent bunch on each side of the first dorsal segment  wings subfuscous the anterior portion of the anteriors deeply clouded nervures black.
Length 15 mm.
Chapada March.
One specimen.
Seems to be very distinct as regards coloration and sculpture of middle segment.
Myzine iridescens n. sp.
9 .
 Black  abdomen iridescent especially the first dorsal segment inner orbits metanotum and a dot on each side of the first dorsal segment of abdomen yellow  pubescence pale  clypeus with fairly strong punctures except in the middle which is longitudinally smooth and raised or carinated  front with large deep punctures closer than in radiata  occiput with large rather sparse punctures its posterior margin with finer and closer ones  ocellar region almost impunctate  scape distinctly punctured  pronotum with large though not deep somewhat confluent punctures  dorsulum with the punctures on anterior portion fine and cl9ser on the remainder stronger and sparser than those of the pronotum  scutellum with large separated punctures upper surface of middle segment at base finely and closely punctured apically rugose particularly in the middle  posterior face covered with fairly sti'ong close stride which radiate from the apex become coarser laterally and extend on sides where they are finer and evener  sides of prothorax finely striated obliquely mesopleurffi with large deep punctures  calcaria and spines of the legs white  the tibiae and tarsi obscurely rufotestaceous  abdomen above rather finely punctured most strongly on segments 4 and 5 and at the sides base of 24 transversely smooth  ventral segments with large sparse punctures a transverse series before the apical margins of segments 25  pygidial area longitudinally striated  wings subfuscous the anterior portion of anteriors deeply clouded nervures and tegulfe in part testaceous.
Length 12 mm.
Chapada December.
One specimen.
This is very similar superficially to radiata but diflfers in much finer sculpture of thorax particularly the middle segment.
Tiphia parallela Sm.
Chapada December and January Santarem February Villeta May.
Seven specimens.
20 Tiphia solitaria Sm.
Chapada May and November  Santarem.
Four specimens.
Smith doubtfully referred solitaria to parallela as the latter's male in which he was probably correct.
In addition to the two species of Tiphia above noted the collection contains perhaps five others which I have not been able to place in consequence of the many incomplete descriptions that exist of neotropical forms.
Smith's descriptions of Tiphia are almost useless.
Epomidiopteron Julii Rom.
Chapada December and February  Santarem.
Four specimens all females.
Scolia Discolia nigrescens n. sp.
Deep 
lack shining  mandibles red  wings black with a strong blue reflection  tibie and tarsi reddish  base of second ventral segment with two small tubercles.
 .
 Head with deep sparse punctures closest at base of antennae and on occiput anterior margin ofclypeus truncate scape sparsely punctured  thorax coarsely punctured tolerably closely so on prothorax and mesopleune dorsulum and scutellum impunctate medially upper segment of middle segment in middle strongly punctured posteriorly depressed and sparsely punctured  legs more or less reddish their amount of black and red variable the spines black longer spur of hind tibia
equal to about onethird the length of the first hind tarsal joint  abdomen strongly punctured particularly on the first and second dorsals dorsals 35 almost impunctate except at base where the punctures are close and small dorsal segment six with cribrose punctures and coarsely hirsute ventrally the abdomen has large sparse punctures out of which project black hairs pilosity of the body black and sparse  base of second ventral with two small transverse tubercles.
Length 2224 mm.
 .
 Similar to 9 in coloration except that the legs are usually entirely black  antennae scarcely as long as head and thorax stout  abdomen with all the segments punctured alike the punctures being well separated but not sparse  joints of medial and hind tarsi within at apex with a small bunch of grayish hairs.
Length 1620 mm.
Chapada November December and March.
Fourteen specimens.
Near monticola Cam. from Mexico but is distinct in the tuberculate second ventral segment the medially impunctate dorsulum and scutellum and differently colored legs.
Soolia Discolia versicolor Sauss.
Chapada November and March.
Four 9 and one S specimen.
Saussure in describing this species was in doubt whether its habitat was Brazil or Africa.
The specimens before me agree very well with the description and leave no doubt in my mind as to their identity.
The color of thorax varies somewhat the dorsulum tegulre and scutellum sometimes partaking of rufous.
The male has not before been recorded.
It may be briefly diagnosed as follows   .
 Colored like the 9  but with four apical segments reddish  antennffi stout about as long as head and thorax  thorax strongly punctured sparsely so on dorsulum scutellum metanotum and middle segment medially  abdomen with strong punctures fairly close on dorsal segments 46 in the middle somewhat sparsely the ventrals much more sparsely so  second ventral at base strongly bituberculate  longer spur of hind tibia about half as long as the first hind tarsal joint  wings black with a strong bluishpurple reflection  pilosity of body black rather sparse.
Length 20 mm.
Scolia Discolia Drewseni Sauss.
Chapada March and April.
Eighteen 9 and fifteen S specimens.
The wings have a bronzypurple reflection not violaceous as described by Saussure.
The   heretofore unknown may be described as follows   .
 Similar to 9 as to coloration the black or under side of thorax more distinct  antenme about as long as head and thorax  thorax strongly punctured sparsely so on the middle of dorsulum scutellum metanotum and upper surface of middle segment  abdomen with strong punctures becoming closer toward apex sparsest on first and second dorsal and on the ventral segments  longer spur of hind tibiae nearly half as long as the first hind tarsal joint second ventral segment at base indistinctly tuberculate wings black with a strong bronzypurple reflection  pilosity of body reddish rather dense on apical abdominal segments.
Length 1218 mm.
Scolia Discolia decepta n. sp.
Similar to Drewseni but the wings are deeper blue and not purplish  clypeus transverse not produced in the middle as in Drewseni.
9 .
 Head with deep sparse punctures almost impunctate above on the front more closely at base of autennte and on occiput  clypeus convex and impunctate medially depressed and punctured on the sides a small patch of pale hairs on each extreme side  thorax strongly punctured very closely above on protborax elsewbere sparsely tbe center of dorsulun scutelkira and metanotum impunctate or nearly so tbe middle segment above in tbe middle witb large scattered punctures  longer spur of bind tibire less tban balf as long as tbe first bind tarsal joint  first and second dorsal segment strongly punctured tbe punctures on second sparsest and feebler dorsals 35 almost impuuctate tbe sixtb witb cribrose punctures ventrals witb large mucb scattered punctures tbe base of second segment bituberculate  venation about as in Drewseni the second transversocubital nervure strongly curved outwardly.
Body rufous  flagellum except first joint occiput narrowly tborax on sides and beneatb.
tbe middle segment entirely and first and base of second abdominal segments black  legs including spines rufous pilosity black except fringe of mandibles and two apical abdominal segments.
Length 21 mm.
Cbapada.
One specimen.
Superficially decepta sbows a striking resemblance to Drewseni from wbicb it diflfers in tbe bluer wings sbape of clypeus and color of pilosity.
Scolia Discolia bisignata n. sp.
Similar to Drewseni and decepta in coloration tbe tbird dorsal abdominal segment witb a small lateral yellow spot  clypeus transverse anteriorly  wings black witb a strong purplisb reflection.
9   Head witb deep sparse punctures tbose of tbe occiput base of antennse and on sides of clypeus mucb closer  clypeus strongly convex and impunctate medially its fore margin transverse at thesides witb a small buncb or fringe of pale bairs  tborax strongly punctured closest on protborax and dorsulum anteriorly posteriorly on dorsulum tbe punctures are large and sparse as are likewise tbose of the scutellum and metanotum on the centre of upper surface of middle segment tbe punctures are more evenly spaced  mesopleurse posteriorly metapleurse and posterior face of middle segment smooth impunctate or nearly so  longer spur of bind tibiae not onethird as long as the first hind tarsal joint dorsal segments 1 2 and base of tbird with strong separated though not sparse punctures tbose at base of second and tbird segments finest and closest apical portion of dorsals 35 witb large sparse punctures sixtb dorsal cribrose ventrals very sparsely punctured tbe punctures of the last segment finest second ventral bituberculate at base.
Body rufous flagellum except basal joints mandibles at tips thorax on sides and beneath and the dorsulum medially as a rule and a narrow somewhat.
indistinct line at apex of dorsal segments 13 black  pilosity reddish and rather sparse that on the occiput pertaining to yellow  none of the abdominal segments fringed tegule strongly punctured on anterior half.
Length 1621 mm.
S .
 Head strongly and evenly punctured throughout the front shallowly so on the occiput antennae scarcely as long as the head and thorax united first and second joints of flagellum about equal iri length the terminal joint rounded at apex the antennse are decidedly stouter than in the male of Dreivseiii  thorax strongly punctured but rather more closely than in the female and the posterior face of middle segment with large punctures  abdomen closely punctured particularly above the last dorsal hardly cribrose  second ventral bituberculate.
A yellow spot in the emargination of the eyes and the black on dorsulum and abdomen more generally distributed.
Length 1316 mm.
Chapada January March and April.
Eleven female and six male specimens.
The extent of black of abdomen and sides of thorax is subject to variation  in two females the dorsal segments are almost entirely black.
The yellow spots on abdomen are constant in all specimens and may be regarded as a good superficial character in distinguishing this species from Drewseni and allied species.
mis vitripennis Sm.
Chapada March.
Four specimens mis regina Sauss.
Chapada January to April.
Thirtynine specimens all females.
Elis nigra Sauss.
Chapada October February March and April.
Twentythree female specimens.
lis lucida Lep.
Two specimens from Chapada collected in December and INIarch respectively I refer with some doubt to E. lucida.
The larger specimen measures 27 mm.
in length whereas Saussure gives 38 mm.
Should my specimens be correctly determined there is no reason for considering this species as a variety of costalis as suggested by Saussure and Sichel on p. 219 of their catalogue as it is clearly distinct from that species.
Elis hyalina Lep.
Represented in the collection by numerous specimens of both sexes from Chapada December March and April.
In addition to the clear wings the male of hyalina is distinguished from those of costalis and Wesmaeli by the unusually prominent and pointed tubercle at base of second ventral abdominal segment.
Elis costalis Lep.
Chapada March and April  Rio de Janeiro November.
Fourteen females and numerous male specimens.
The latter show considerable variation in size and maculation the spotted form however is apparently rare.
This form is the E. j'allax Saussure referred by that author as a variety of .
hyalina.
It should be placed with costalis however in consequence of its heavy form and darker wings and also by the shape of the ventral tubercle of abdomen.
Elis Wesmaeli Lep.
Chapada December February March and April.
Numerous specimens of both sexes.
Elis cineraria Sichel.
A large series over one hundred specimens is in the collection from Chapada November March and April.
The specimens agree with the description of cineraria except that there is no yellow on the fourth dorsal or on any of the ventral abdominal segnjents.
Only males are represented  and the series shows considerable variation in size specimens measuring 1630 mm.
Elis variegata Fabr.
Chapada March.
Fourteen male specimens.
These only vary in that two specimens have the spots on the second dorsal segment united.
Elis conspicua Sm.
Four males.
Santarem  Chapada March.
These vary in length from 1220 mm.
 and in the smaller specimens the pronotum is partly yellowish and in one the third dorsal abdominal segment is bimaculated with that color.
Elis Dielis angulata n. sp.
Close to conspicua but dorsal segments 14 fasciate with yellowish thorax less shining and pubescence of pronotum entirely pale yellowish.
9 .
 Black mandibles medially tegulie and tibite and tarsi more or less reddishtestaceous  transverse spot on metanotum and a band on dorsal segments 14 yellowish the bands on first and fourth segments narrow those on second and third greatly dilated medially and emarginate anteriorly at the sides narrowed  pubescence pale that of the occiput and pronotum somewhat yellowish  apical margins of dorsal and ventral segments 25 distinctly fringed the color of which fringe is white except on the dorsal segments medially and the fifth ventral which have it goldenbrown  the first dorsal is rather densely pubescent clypeus punctured at the sides bearing two longitudinally parallel carinse down the middle  front strongly and closely punctured the vertex and occiput with exception of a few scattered punctures impunctate  scape with scattered punctures  thorax subopaque the dorsuluni strongly punctured laterally and anterior
' impunctate medially  scutellum and metanotum with scattered punctures  middle segment above with strong separated punctures with a smooth longitudinal narrow space in the middle  posterior face concave impunctate at extreme sides the lateral margins somewhat sharply carinated  spines of the legs whitishtestaceous calearia darker  hind tibite beset with strong black thorns externally their longer spur more distinctly spatulate than in conspicua wings subhyaline subfuscous anteriorly and apically with a purplish iridescence nervures and stigma testaceous apex of second submarginal cell very sharply angular in the middle dorsal segments punctured tow'ard the sides rather opaque ventrals shining the second and third with two and the fourth with one transverse series of strong punctures  pygidium nude sculptured in such a way as to appear shingled its apical margin narrowly smooth and testaceous.
Length 17 mm.
Santarem.
One specimen.
The strongly angulatpd apex of second submarginal cell and the maculatiou distinguish this species from consplcua and auripilis.
Elis Dielis auripilis n. sp.
Likely to be confused with angulata but differs in its golden pubescence of front and dorsulum the semiyellowish wings and strongly punctured occiput.
9 .
 Black mandibles reddish  transverse spot on metanotum and a fascia on dorsal abdominal segments 14 or 5 yellow those on the second and third or fourth broad emarginate anteriorly and narrowly incised with black at the sides else a small black spot is enclosed by the yellow on each side on the first segment the fascia narrow and sometimes interrupted medially on the fourth more or less variable on the fifth narrow and inconstant front occiput pronotum and dorsulum bearing golden pubescence that of cheeks clypeus thorax beneath and legsgriseous dorsal segments 25 with a fringe of goldenbrown pubescence at apex ventrals 25 with a white fringe  clypeus furrowed down the middle bearing some coarse folds anteriorly front strongly and closely punctured the vertex with a few large scattered punctures occiput coarsely punctured and posteriorly in addition bearing coarse folds or rugosities  scape with scattered punctures pronotum except posterior margin strongly and closely punctured bearing near each anterolateral angle a deep oblique depression  dorsulum with very large rather regularly placed punctures which are but little sparser medially  scutellum smooth medially strongly punctured at each side the metanotum impunctate middle segment above somewhat prominent in the middle at apex the median division with large punctures smooth at base however the lateral ones more finely punctured posterior face concave smooth at the sides crenulated notcarinate  spines of medial and hind tibiae yellow those of the tarsi and calcaria whitish  wings fulvohyaline iridescent particularly on apical third nervures and stigma fulvotestaceous apex of second submargiiial cell angular medially but not sharply the second transversocubital vein being rather more sinuate than augulate  dorsal segments 14 sparsely punctured medially rather strongly and closely at the sides segment 5 strongly punctured throughout ventrals shiny segments 24 with two transverse series of punctures segments 5 and 6 more generally punctured sculpture of the pygidial area much as in angtdata but finer and when held in certain lights the pygidium is clothed with a short appressed golden pubescence.
Length 1617 mm.
Three specimens.
Chapada March.
This seems quite distinct from its allies in the color of the wings which approaches that of Saussure and Sichels stirps Elidis vespiformis   those species have the abdomen immaculate however.
Elis Dielis Smithii n. sp.
In maculation similar to confluenta but the thorax immaculate wings faintly yellowish along costa.
.
 Black mandibles in art reddish narrow transverse spot on first and a large spot on each side of the second dorsal segments orange the spots on second segment almost united internallv thereby having the appearance of a band which is strongly emarginate in the middle anteriorly  otherwise the abdomen black  insect with pale pubescence that on the vertex and dorsulum fuscous  dorsal .segments 25 and fifth ventral with a fringe of black pubescence ventrals 24 with a white fringe  clypeus furrowed down the middle strongly punctured laterally and basally in the middle and anteriorly smooth  front strongly and closely punctured the punctures of vertex large and scattered  occiput with strong separated punctures but not rugose scape with scattered punctures pronotum except posterior margin strongly and closely punctured and with a depression on each side as in auripilis but less strong punctures of dorsulum coarse close anteriorly sparser at the sides and in the middle absent scutellum and metanotum strongly punctured except the apical portion which is smooth  middle segment with the median division strongly punctured laterally stnooth medially and a little produced at apex on each side of this median division the middle segment is more finely and evenly punctured the posterior surface of the median division only smooth and shining sides of posterior surface crenulated  spines of the tibire and the middle tarsi black calcaria and spines of hind tarsi whitish  wings subhyaline iridesdent faintly yellowish along the costa costal vein black the others testaceous apex of second submarginal cell angulate in the middle dorsal segments 13 with sparse rather indistinct punctures those on the following segments closer and more distinct especially on segment 4 ventrals shining segments 2 and 3 with two 4 and 5 with .one series of transverse punctures sixth sparsely punctured  pygidial area coarsely longitudinally striate not pubescent.
Length 17 mm.
One specimen.
Corumba April.
Distinguished from conspicua which it resembles by the immaculate thorax distinctly punctured occiput etc.
Elis dorsata Fabr.
Rio de Janeiro November  Chapada January March and April  Santarem February  Corumba April.
Nineteen specimens all females.
Elis mutanda S.  S. Santarem.
One 9 specimen.
I refer this specimen here with iesitation.
It measures but 17 mm. and the wings are bluishpurple  the second and third dorsals have a small somewhat rounded yellow spot on each side.
Elis Dielis aureoMrta n. sp.
Belongs evidently to Saussure and Sichei's  Stirps EUdis vespiJormis and differs from other species of that group vespiformls brasiliana and Gerstaeekeri by the dense fulvous pubescence with which the pronotum and dorsulum are clothed.
9 .
 Black  mandibles reddish in part  head in front occiput and thorax above with long golden yellow pubescence particularly dense on the pronotum and anterior portion of dorsulum the latter in the middle nude as well as middle of scutellum metanotum and upper surface of middle segment thorax beneath legs first dorsal and the ventrals more or less with long griseous pubescence dorsals 13 with sparse pale pubescence longest at sides the fourth fifth and sixth with black pubescence dorsals 13 and ventrals 25 fringed with white pubescence at apex  clypeus strongly punctured basally smooth medially and bearing folds or rugoe on apical portion  front strongly punctured transverse smooth space before the ocelli  vertex with larger scattered punctures which become closer on the occiput scape with a few scattered punctures dorsulum strongly punctured laterally and anteriorly perfectly smooth and polished medially scutellum metanotum and median divisions of middle segment with large separated punctures at the sides impunctate medially  outer lobes or divisions of middle segment with finer shallower punctures their punctures stronger in the middle of their upper surfaces the sides of which are sharply carinated the carinse not extending on the posterior surfiice  spines of the legs and the calcaria black  wings fulvous slightly bluish on aical portion the second transverso cubital nervure sinuated pertaining to angular in some specimens abdomen above with sparse shallow punctures strongest toward the sides and on the first fourth and fifth segments base of second and sides of third fourth and fifth ventrals with strong punctures the lateral punctures of third segment however not reaching its base the second and third with two the fourth and fifth with one series of transverse punctures sixth with finer scattered punctures pygidial area longitudinally and irregularly rugose.
Length 1617 mm.
 .
 Colored like the female but the abdomen bluish the pubescence of the body denser throughout is finer less yellow on the thorax and is very dense in the middle segment  form slender similar to E. plumipes   antennaj fully as long as head thorax and first segment of abdomen united the first joint of flagellum distinctly shorter than the second  thorax on sides and beneath clothed with a silky pile in addition to the long pubescence  dorsulum and middle segment on upper and posterior surfaces punctured throughout legs slender the spines of hind and medial tarsi pale  dorsal segments 14 with shallow separated punctures those of fifth sixth and base of seventh closer and deeper the ventrals sparsely punctured  second ventral at base not at all tuberculate.
Length 1517 mm.
Chapada March.
Over one hundred specimens.
Differs from its allies including E. alhofimhriata Smith by the color of the thoracic pubescence.
Elis plumipes Dr. Chapada November and March.
Eight female specimens.
I am uncertain whether a large series of male specimens contained in the collection from Chapada March and October Corumba April and Santarera November belong to this species or to E. dorsata.
THE MESENTERIES OF THE SAURIA.i BY E. D. COPE.
Examination of the literature shows that this subject has been nowhere adequately treated.
The most considerable paper is one by Dr. F. E. Beddard in the Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London for 1888.
This however includes an examination of a limited number of genera eight only.
The present paper is founded on a study of most of the genera of all the families excepting in the cases of the Gecconidse and Agamidie where my opportunities have been more restricted.
I am indebted for this material to the U. S. National Museum the collections of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and my own.
A fold suspends the alimentary canal from the median dorsal line forming the dorsal or epigastric mesentery E G.
No other mesenteries bind the alimentary canal except the stomach and sometimes the adjacent portion of the small intestine which have other connections.
The liver on the other hand has several mesenteric connections as follows  Its ventral face has usually a single sheet connecting it with the median ventral line but in rare instances it is bifurcate posteriorly Scincidffi generally or even double Tiliqiia LHV RHV.
This sheet or one of them is continued along to the anterior abdominal artery to the ventral wall and sometimes along the gallduct to the pyloric part of the small intestine.
Each border of the liver is twice or thrice concave above in adaptation to the stomach and lungs in the types where the latter extend so far posteriorly which is the usual arrangement.
From the left hand ridge thus produced a sheet or mesentery extends to the stomach forming the gastrohepatic mesentery GH.
It is sometimes median in position.
From right hand superior angle a mesentery extends to the right dorsal body wall forming the right hepatic mesentery.
The four mesenteries now described are the only ones which are universally present which bind the liver.
The following sheets are present in various types.
Frequently the right hepatic and the gastrohepatic give off sheets to the right ' Read before the American Association for the Advancement of Science Springfield meeting Aug. 30th 1895. and left lungs respectively constituting the right hepatopulmouary and gastropulmonary mesenteries RHP.
and GP..
A sheet occasionally goes off from the gastrohepatic to the left body wall forming the left gastroparietal mesentery.
This is frequently represented by a narrow band and occasionally as in Dipsosaurus it joins the small intestine just beyond the extremity of the gastrohepatic sheet.
This is not represented on the accompanying diagram.
In Heloderma a distinct sheet extends fi'om each border of the liver to the body walls forming the right and left lateral hepatic mesenteries LLH RLH.
In Chamceleon Polychrus and Anolis the left lung besides being attached to the gastrohepatic mesentery is attached by a sheet to the left border of the liver forming the left hepatopulmonary mesentery LHP.
Diagram of peritoneum of Sauria with all the folds displayed by a transverse section near the middle of the liver.
L liver  St. stomach  E.L right lung LL left lung EG epigastric peritoneal fold LHV and RHV left and right hepatoventral folds  RLH and LLH right and left lateral hepjtic folds KH right hepatic GH gastrohepatic LHP and RHP left and right hepatopulmonary folds.
In Varaiius salvator there is a short median gastrohepatic sheet GH.
In Varanus owing to the anterior position of the lungs they have no hepatic or gastric connections.
In no Saurian have I observed a right hepatopulmonary sheet as the right hepatic mesentery supports the right lung.
The latter extends along the apical strip of the right lobe of the liver to the genital mesentery in many genera.
In Tupinamhis Dracoena and some others the right hepatic extends as a strong sheet to the right body wall forming with an equally strong gastroparietal of the left side a kind of diapliragm.
In many genera the right hepatic sheet is connected with the stomach especially at its proximal part.
Besides the hepatic and gastric mesenteries there are those which enclose the internal genitalia the urinary bladder and the corpora adiposa.
The genital mesentery is sometimes quite extensively free and is always so anteriorly especially where it supports the wide fontanelle of the oviduct.
A mesenteric pouch encloses the corpora adijosa only in those forms where those bodies project freely into the abdominal cavity as is frequently the case.
The cystic mesentery is a transverse fold of the peritoneum whicli lines the inferior wall of the pelvic cavity which encloses the urinary bladder when it is present.
Beddard has stated that in the genus Varanus there is a  horizontal sheet of mesentery between the viscera and the abdominal peritoneum.
This is an interpretation of the fact that the abdominal peritoneum is loosely attached to the abdominal muscular sheaths and is readily separated from them.
This sheet however presents the usual relation of the abdominal peritoneum to the viscera as Beddard states and appears to me to be homologous with it.
 The same condition caused Giinther to state that in Regenia ocellata the corpora adiposa are enclosed in  a separate sac of the peritoneum whereas the former are not enclosed in a special sac as in some other genera.
In the Chamseleonidae the mesenteries include the usual hepatoventral epigastric gastrohepatic and right hepatic the last including the right lung.
The left lung is included in a left hepatogastric a feature seen in few other groups notably in the Anoline Iguanidre.
There is also a left hepatolateral from the liver to the left body wall having a direction diagonal to the long axis of the liver in C. basiliscus.
In the Nyctisaura I have been able to examine the mesenteries in relatively few genera of the superfamily.
I find in both Gecconidae and Eublepharidse the structure to be of the type most frequent in the Sauria  i. e.  a simple hepatoventral  a single gastrohepatic  a left gastropulmonary  and a right hepatic which embraces the right lung.
In the Agamidse the mesenteries present the usual sheets hepatoventral gastrohepatic left gastropulmonary and right hepatic 'Proc.
Zool.
Soc London 1888 p. 98.
'Loc.cit. 1861 March.
which includes the right lung.
I have noted the following modifications  In Agama colonoram the left gastropulraonary has become a right gastrohepatic by its continuing to the liver a character observed in Chamceleon and the Anolinse.
There is also in this species a left hepatoraarginal.
In Megalochilus auritus there is a right hepatoventral as in Phrynosoma.
In the Iguanidae the hejatic mesenteries conform to the general type with certain exceptions to be mentioned.
Thus there are no right or left lateral hepatic mesenteries and but one ventral.
The right hepatic supports the right lung.
There is frequently a rudimental right lateral hepatic which connects the long right apex of the liver with the right body wall.
There is a gastrohepatic which generally spreads over the space enclosed in the bend of the stomach.
There is no left gastroparietal sheet or band.
The most remarkable deviation from this type which I have verified in twenty genera is found in the Auolinie.
Here the left lung besides its superolateral connection with the stomach is connected by a special sheet with the left part of the inferior face of the liver.
Thus the latter organ is suspended by two sheets to the left side of the middle line.
In genera where this is the case the two sheets are sometimes difficult to distinguish owing to their easy adhesion together.
They may be separated by inserting a probe from the free caudad extremity of the lung.
Another variation from the normal type is seen in the presence of a right lateral hepatic sheet in Phrynosoma and Polychrus in Polychrus gutturosus it is wanting in the one specimen examined.
A left lateral sheet is present on the cephalad half of the liver in Cyclura cornuta and Polychrus marmoratus.
It is rudimental in Polychrus aeidirosiris and wanting in P. gutturosus.
There is a gastroparietal band in Cyclura cornuta which is joined by the apex of the peritoneum of the corpus adiposum.
In the Anguidse the viscera do not display any exceptional features except as to the serpen tiform genera.
The mesenteries are of the typical character modified in Ophisaurus by the reduction of the left lung.
The hepatoventral sheet is very near the left margin of the liver in Pseudopus apus and the gastrohepatic and right hepatic are near together when slack.
 In the Helodermatidse the mesenteries of Heloderma are characteristic.
There is a single hepatoventral and the gastrohepatic has the usual position.
The right hepatic goes to the right side of the Stomach becoming a right gastrohepatic and does not extend to the dorsal peritoneum a character in which it is unique in the Sauria.
Posterior to the middle of the liver they unite on the middle line as in the Teidte.
The lungs are attached to the adjacent parts of the gastric peritoneum by separate sheets the right and left gastropulmonary.
Besides these there is a strong sheet on each side extending from the superior side of the liver near the border to the body wall forming the right and left hepatolateral.
The right hepatolateral does not extend along the right border of the liver beyond the cephalad half.
The right gastrohepatic continues along the elongate right process of the liver to the genital fold of the peritoneum and the apex of this process of the liver sends a recurrent sheet backward which forms with the former a funnelshaped passage.
This recurrent sheet might be regarded as a caudad hepatolateral.
Dr. Shufeldt states that Heloderma possesses the free ventral peritoneum found in Varanus but this is not the case as this structure is the usual one.
The peritoneum forms a transverse fold at the posterior part of the corpora adiposa supporting the urinary bladder and forming the cystic mesentery.
It is but loosely attached to the corpora adiposa which do not project freely from the body wall and hence have no special peritoneal pouch.
They are elongate and coarsely subdivided.
In the Zonuridre the mesenteries in the genus Zonurus are of the usual type.
There are one hepatoventral a gastrohepatic a left gastropulmonary and a right hepatic which encloses the right lung.
The mesenteric attachments of the liver are very characteristic in the Teidse.
There is but one suspensor a median gastrohepatic but this bifurcates above the middle of the organ and each half diverges and adhering to the caudad margin extends to the lateral inferior body wall on each side.
In Tupvnmnbis these sheets are united on the median line for a distance posterior to the liver.
The lungs are each attached to the stomach by a separate sheet.
The left hepatoparietal sheet is always present in this family but the right one is feeble in some genera and is easily ruptured as for instance in Cnemidoplioriis.
I have examined the genera Draccena Tupmambis Callojmtfis Amiva Cnemidophorus Centropy.v Tejus Anadia and Oreosaurus.
 Proceeds.
Zool.
Soc London 1890 pp.
1934.
In the Scincidse as in other families in the serpen tiforra types the liver and stomach occupy a position caudad to the lungs and so the latter do not appear in the mesenteric connections of the former e. g Siaphiis.
The mesenteries are the usual ones but one peculiarity is very frequent though not universal in the family.
The hepatoventral sheet is generally divided into two a right and left sheet next the liver forming a pocket which opens caudad.
In the Tiliqiia sdncoides the two sheets only unite at the cephalic end of the liver remaining separate throughout.
In the Anniellidse the viscera display the following characters.
The left lung is much smaller than the right lung and is proximally fused with it so that there is but a single lumen.
Right lung much enlarged and covering the alimentary canal below ventrad.
Liver considerably posterior to heart long and narrow with a small left lobe and a long right lobe extending to the reproductive cells.
Gall bladder enclosed by the liver and exposed inferiorly i. e. occupying a foramen as in the Diploglossa.
Alimentary canal distinguished into stomach and a small and large intestine without distinct colon.
IStomach without curvature  small intestine moderately plicated with lacertiform mesentery.
Reproductive cells anterior symmetrical  kidneys symmetrical posterior.
There is a single gastrohepatic mesentery from the middle line of the.
liver and no right hepatic or lateral hepatics.
Hepatoventral simple  plates of epigastric very loosely attached together.
No pulmonaries at middle of liver.
The fusion of the lungs is a peculiarity that I have not noticed elsewhere among the Sauria.
The left lung is Irke a diverticulum of the right and posterior to the point of divergence from the latter is bound to it by connective tissue to the extremity.
This fusion is a step nearer to obliteration than occurs in any of the serpentiform genera of Teidse Scincidse or Anguidoe where though of reduced size it is distinct from the right except at its proximal extremity.
In the Amphisbeenidse as the left lung only is present in this family there is but one gastropulmonary mesentery.
The liver has a crescentic crosssection and it is supported by two gastrohepatic mesenteries A7nphisbcena alba and A. fuliginosa or by only one and a right hepatic or hepatolateral as it may be  Rhineura floridana.
There is but one hepatoventral.
The last described structure also characterizes Euchiroies diporus.
21 Since the above was written a paper has been published in the Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London 1895 p. 702 by Mr. G. W. Butler on the lungs of snakes Amphisbsenidse etc.
Here the fact of the suppression of the right lung in the Amphisbsenia is pointed out.
