NEW SPECIES OF MOLLUSKS FROM URUGUAY.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
The following descriptions are based upon material collected in Uruguay by Dr.
Win.
H. Rush U. S. N. The marine shells were obtained at Maldonado Bay by dredging in from 3 to 6 fathoms depth.
A list of all the species collected may be found in the  Nautilus for May of this year p. 6.
Few coasts of like extent have been so little explored conchologically as the eastern shores of South America from Guiana to Cape Horn.
The limits to the southward of the Antillean mollusk fauna are only of late becoming known largely through the collections made by Dr. von Ihering and others and recorded by Dall 1 although the collections made at Rio Janeiro and Bahia by the Wilkes Exploring Expedition 12 and by the commission of naturalists 3 sent by the Spanish Government have been of value in this enquiry.
Mr. E. A. Smith's catalogue of the mollusks of Fernando Noronha 4 and numerous records in the volumes on mollusca of the Challenger Reports further swell the list.
5 It would seem that the fauna as far south at least as the southern limit of Brazil is preponderantly Antillean but with a certain number of special forms not represented in the West Indies some of them like Strombus Goliath 6 notable for their size or peculiarity.
To the southward of Brazil the special or nonAntillean forms seem to predominate over the Antillean although there is of course a very gradual overlapping as would be expected from the lack of any salient coastal feature 1 Nautilus V pp.
26 42  VI p. 109  X p. 121.
Also Proc.
XJ.
S. Nat.
Mus. XII p. 773 pp.
219362.
2 Mollusca and Shells by A.
A. Gould.
3 J. G Hidalgo.
Moluscos del Viaje al Pacifico part 3. marine univalves.
 Journ.
Linn.
Soc.
Lond. Zool.
XX.
Consult also Smith's paper on the mollusca of St. Helena and Ascension P. Z. S. 1890 where many Antillean species are recorded.
5 There are some brief lists of merit other than those above mentioned as well as many records for single species from this region scattered through the general literature of conchology.
6 This magnificent Stromb occurs on the coast of Brazil.
The writer saw numerous examples in the Brazilian Fisheries Exhibit at the Columbian Exposition in Chicago in 1893. abruptly denning regions of diverse physical features.
The embouchure of the Plate River may as Dall has suggested mark the southern extension of typically Antillean forms but the endemic southern forms it seems extend both to the north and south of it.
The main exponent of this southern fauna is of course d'Orbigny whose bulky tome has been of such inestimable value to all later students of South American mollusks.
When we come to the region of Magellan Strait a good many additional forms appear and the literature is more copious.
Among recent papers may be mentioned Dall's report upon forms collected by the  Albatross Mabille  Rochebrune's Mollusks of the Mission Scientifique du Cap Horn Smith's  Alert  shells collected by Coppinger etc.
Pisidium Sterkianum n. sp.
Plate VI figs.
1 2 3 4.
Shell somewhat inequilateral ventricose glossy light yellowish.
Dorsal and ventral margins about equally arcuate  anterior end decidedly and broadly truncate  posterior end moderately produced and obliquely rounded.
Beaks full but rather small and not much produced above the hingeline.
Surface very finely striated becoming a little more coarse near the basal margin  interior grayishwhite.
Right valve with two lamellar slightly curved or sinuous parallel cardinal teeth the laterals short high and rather slight.
In left valve the laterals are lower and longer.
Length 6 height 5 diam.
3'8 mm.
From a creek in the  Prado Montevideo Uruguay.
Many specimens were collected.
One of those opened contained numerous young as is often observed in our northern Pisidia
P. Sterkianum is a large species about the size of an average P. Virginicum.
I would identify it with Cyclas pulchella Orb.
not Jenyns  Pisidium Dorbignyi Clessin were it not for the very much smaller size length 3 millimetres of that form  the young P. Sterkianum of that size being much more compressed than Orbigny's figure of C. pulchella
C. pulchellawas not among Orbigny's South American shells acquired by the British Museum according to the official catalogue and is not represented in the Museum as Mr. E. R. Sykes obligingly informs me.
 It is likely that Clessin's description of P. Argentinian and his figure la were from a specimen of this species  but Orbigny's Cyclas Argentina which Dr.
Rush collected at the origiual locality is a true Sphwrium not unlike S. Calyculinalacustre in general appearanoe but not a Calyculina
Clessin's figures 1 and 2 are poor copies from the Voy.
Amer.
Merid. but the original figures are not good.
We have named this species in honor of Dr. V. Sterki who has undertaken the difficult task of working up the North American Pisidia
Pisidium vile n. sp.
PI.
VI figs.
17 18 19 20.
Shell rather inequilateral quite globose of a yellowish corneous color.
Surface glossy very finely and evenly striated anterior end a little straightened or truncate  posterior end narrower produced and rounded  dorsal and basal margins about equally curved.
Beaks large and full projecting well above the dorsal margin.
Interior bluishwhite.
Teeth in right valve  a strong large posterior cardinal emarginate at tip and a low narrow inconspicuous upper anterior cardinal  laterals very strong and high.
In the left valve a low anterior and lower posterior cardinal the pit between them wide and deep  laterals double unusually heavy and strong.
Length 26 height 2  4 diam.
2 mm.
From a small creek in the  Prado Montevideo Uruguay.
This form differs from Cyclas pulchella Orb.
Pisidium Dorbignyi Clessiu described from Maldonado in being smaller shorter with much more projecting fuller beaks.
The very large size of the posterior cardinal tooth in the right valve and the greater reduction of the anterior cardinal are conspicuous features.
A large series was collected.
It also seems to be unlike any other Pisidiaf  Archiplata judging from the descriptions and figures of P. Chilense Orb. P. Laurieochce and Forbesii Phil.
7 Thracia Rushii n. sp.
PI.
VII fig.
30.
Shell thin rather fragile inequilateral inequivalve the right valve swollen left valve much less so and with lower beak than the other.
White with a thin isabella tinted cuticle toward the margins.
Anterior end long broadly rounded dorsal and ventral margins subparallel  dorsal margin behind the beaks straightly sloping short posterior end abruptly truncated.
Pallial sinus moderate.
Hinge very slender and delicate ossicle lunate with the ends blunt.
Length 29 height 20 diam.
95 mm.
7 Novitates Conchologica 5  III p. 489 pi.
105.
Length 20 5 height 13'8 diam.
7 5 mm.
Length 20 height 14 mill.
Maldonado Bay Uruguay.
T. fragilis Penn.
is longer in proportion to the height more prolonged and narrower posteriorly and more convex.
Seraele Abra 
Uruguayensis n. sp.
PI.
VII figs.
27 28 29.
Shell thin inequilateral the anterior end conspicuously longer convex smooth except for fine faint growthstriae.
Surface slightly glossy or dull pale isabelline becoming white toward the beaks.
Dorsal margins sloping abruptly each side of the beaks the anterior slope nearly straight posterior slope slightly convex  anterior end broadly rounded posterior end rather narrowly rounded below  basal margin regularly rounded becoming a little straighter near the posterior end.
Beaks small slightly projecting  a faint ridge extending from them to the junction of the posterior and basal margins.
Right valve with a small erect and vertical posterior cardinal and longer larger oblique anterior cardinal tooth and a low slight lamellar anterior lateral  no posterior lateral tooth.
Left valve with an erect vertical cardinal tooth no laterals.
Interior pure white  pallial sinus very large and deep.
Length 9'5 height nearly 8 diam.
4'5 mm.
Maldonado Bay Uruguay in 3 to 6 fathoms.
Abundant.
Mesodesma Arechavalettoi Ihering Pilsbry n. sp.
PI.
VI figs.
15 16 about twothirds natural size.
Shell shaped much like 31. donacea Lam. but less abruptly truncated anteriorly and wider posteriorly.
Epidermis light buff growthstrias as in donacea.
Interior with the pallial sinus very deep extending beyond the middle of the shell  lateral teeth weak the left valve with a well developed shaped cardinal retained in fully adult individuals with an accessory lamina behind it.
Length 74 height 40 diam.
23 mm.
Mar del Plata Argentina and Maldonado Bay Uruguay  young specimens only from the last named locality.
This is the shell mentioned as a species of Lutraria in Nautilus VI p. 81 It is eaten in Montevideo.
After deciding the species to be new.
I submitted a specimen to Professor Wm.
H. Dall who has recently made a special study of the Mactracea and learned from him that the shell has been named 31.
Arechavalettoi by Dr. H. von Ihering.
As I have been unable to find such a name mentioned in the literature examined in the 20 course of a rather extensive search I conclude it to be unpublished.
M. ventricosa Gray from New Zealand has similar weak lateral teeth but it is lower shorter and more swollen in the middle.
Types are no.
70486 coll.
A. N. S. P. Corbula Lyoni n. sp.
PI.
VII figs.
21 22 23.
Shell solid and strong nearly equivalve very inequilateral compressed oblong the beaks near the anterior third dorsal margin straight and sloping posteriorly convexly sloping in front anterior end wide rounded  posterior end narrow obliquely truncate terminating below in an acute angle  basal margin straightish in the middle rather abruptly rising near the posterior angle.
Outer surface dull whitish.
Right valve slightly larger noticeably surpassing the left behind the beaks and along the posterior twothirds of the basal margin where it closely overlaps the margin of the left valve.
The valves are about equal in convexity and have the same sculpture.
A posterior area is conspicuously defined on each valve by an acute keel running from the beaks to the posterior angle the keel is considerably bowed downward above this the surface is closely sharply and subregularly costulate the riblets straight obliquely descending in the direction of growth lines.
In front of the keel the basal half of the valves or more has very coarse and irregular concentric folds  on the rounded anterior end the folds become more regular and more numerous.
The upper part of each valve is free from the coarse wrinkles or folds mentioned being merely striated rather irregularly in the lines of growth.
Interior flesh colored sometimes in part oliveyellow the margins of the valves of the latter color.
In the right valve there is a recurved triangular acute tooth.
Length 11 75 height 675 diam.
39 mm.
Length 12'75 height 79 mill.
Maldonado Bay Uruguay in 3 to 6 fms.
This species is remarkably similar in form and sculpture to Corbula Macgillivrayi E. A. Smith 8 described from south of New Guinea in 28 fathoms.
Mr. Smith's species however is double the size of C. Lyoni  it has minute sculpture not seen in the latter  the ribbing of the posterior area is coarser and the wrinkling of 8 Keporton the ''Challenger Lamellibranchiata Chall.
Rep. Zoology Vol.
XIII p. 30 pi.
x figs.
886 1885.
the lower part of the valves less coarse.
I know of no other Corbula at all similar to this remarkable species.
At Dr.
Rush's suggestion this fine species is named in honor of Commander H. L. Lyon of U. S. S.  Yantic.
Corbula Iheringiana n. sp.
PI.
VII figs.
24 25 26.
Shell very inequivalve and very inequilateral  moderately convex somewhat Donax like in general form.
Whitish under a dull light brown cuticle.
Right valve much the larger and more convex projecting beyond the other above the posterior threefourths of the sinuous basal margin conspicuously surpassing the left valve.
The upper margin is sloping and conspicuously concave posterior to the beaks the posterior end truncated  basal margin moderately or slightly arcuate anterior end obliquely truncated in front of the beaks becoming rounded below.
Surface rather irregularly wrinkledstriate sometimes as in the specimen figured with some rather coarse folds on the smaller valve.
Length 9 breadth 5'5 diam.
38 mm.
Maldonado Bay Uruguay in 3 to 6 fathoms.
This is a species of peculiar contour the valves of very unequal size and dissimilar shape even for this genus.
I have been able to find among the numerous forms described from the Antillean region none much resembling this.
The specific name is intended to honor the only working malacologist in South America today.
Naturalists may well congratulate themselves that the learned and virile Director of the Museu Paulista is adding to laurels fairly earned in the Fatherland another and American wreath by his enlightened labors upon the South American fauna.
Crassatella Eriphyla Maldonadoensis n. sp.
Smaller than E. lunulata Conrad decidedly longer in proportion to the height the anterior dorsal slope somewhat convex instead of straight and far shorter than the posterior slope while in E. lunulata it is straight concave near the beaks and longer than the other slope.
The lunule is more deeply excavated and the posterior end of the shell rounded not subangular  beaks less elevated less acute directed forward more than in E. lunulata.
Exterior white variously suffused maculated or interruptedly rayed with pink  having low and inconspicuous but coarse concentric wrinkles.
Interior pink in the cavity of the valves white below the pallial line.
Teeth hinge and interior otherwise as in E. lunulata.
Length 4 75 height 4 diam.
19 mm.
Maldonado Bay in 3 to 6 fathoms.
Numerous specimens collected are very much alike except in pattern of color.
Turbonilla dispar n. sp.
PI.
VI figs.
5 6 7.
Shell moderately attenuated composed of about 8 somewhat convex whorls after the nucleus the latter globose partly immersed with very short low spire of less than two whorls.
Sculpture of spiral grooves at unequal intervals with oblong punctures along the grooves  the upper part of spire especially when slightly eroded marked with series of square punctures.
Color light brown.
Alt.
82 diam.
2'3 mm.
Maldonado Bay Uruguay in 36 fathoms.
Distinguished by the grooved and punctate sculpture and the globose Naticoid nucleus.
Turbonilla Uruguayensis n. sp.
PI.
VI figs.
8 9 10.
Shell of the usual slender tapering form the greatest diameter contained about 3i times in the height  bluishwhite thin but rather strong  the sides straight whorls a trifle convex with slightly but distinctly impressed sutures.
Whorls 11 not counting the tilted nucleus  the two earlier whorls finely costulate or smooth from wear  succeeding whorls down to the end of the seventh with deep regular rather oblique ribs about 26 in number on the seventh whorl  the following whorls vertically and becoming more finely ribbed  last whorl with the ribs decidedly weaker or subobsolete above base convex and smooth.
Apex turbinate tilted at a right angle with the axis of the shell consisting of nearly 3 whorls.
Aperture irregularly pyriform acuminate above its length contained 41 times in the height of shell  the columella subvertical simple its edge revolute.
Alt.
103 diam.
3 mm.
Maldonado Bay Uruguay in 3 to 6 fathoms.
Larger than any of the similarly sculptured species of the Gulf of Mexico or east coast of South America with which I have been able to make comparison.
Ocinebra cala n. sp.
Shell fusiform solid and thick of a dirty white color.
Whorls fully 62 or 7 convex.
Sculpture prominent longitudinal folds which are strong but rounded and wavelike the intervals like the folds reversed  in number 9 to 10 on the last whorl and about the same number on the preceding.
These are crossed by rounded spiral threads which are somewhat lamellose from the fine growthstria.
There are about 13 or 14 principal spirals but in the region of the periphery five or six of the intervals are occupied by minor threads.
Aperture onehalf the total length of shell small lougoval  passing below into a very narrow parallelsided canal nearly as long as the open oval portion.
Outer lip thickened and 7toothed within siphonal fasciole conspicuous convex leaving a narrow umbilical chink.
Alt.
11 '5 diam.
5 8 mm.
Maldonado Bay.
The general appearance of this species is somewhat like Urosalpinx cinereus on a small scale.
The spire is more slender the folds stronger in proportion and the anterior canal narrow.
TJrosalpinx Rushii n. sp.
Shell shortly fusiform thick and solid white under a dull light brown epidermis.
Whorls about 6 the earliest li convex and smooth the rest sculptured and convex the last whorl convex and robust excavated below.
Sculpture  numerous low longitudinal folds quite distinct and regular on the whorls of the spire but subobsolete on the bodywhorl  spiral cords about 43 on the last whorl every fourth cord decidedly wider and more prominent the middle one of the three intervening larger than the other two  on the spire or in young specimens the spirals are alternately larger and smaller.
The surface is roughened and minutely lamellose throughout.
Aperture pure white within about threefifths the total altitude of shell longoval the anterior canal contracted narrow considerably recurved about onethird as long as the open portion of the aperture  outer lip thick with about 7 low denticles within  columella straight vertical.
Umbilical chink minute the umbilical region large excavated surrounded by a convex prominent siphonal funicle.
Operculum very thin with the nucleus near the base.
Length 29 breadth 16 mm.
Maldonado Bay Uruguay.
Compared with Urosalpinx cinereus the spiral sculpture is far finer longitudinal folds subobsolete on the last whorl canal contracted etc.
In Tritonidea tincta the sutures are not so deep the aperture channelled posteriorly and the umbilicus obsolete  otherwise the two species are considerably alike.
Halistylus circumstriatus Pilsbry.
PI.
VI fig.
21.
Nautilus XI May 1897 p. 7.
Maldonado Bay iu company with H. columnus Dall.
Ancylus Rushii Pilsbry n. sp.
PI.
VI figs.
11 12 13 14.
A small very strongly hooked species.
Aperture narrow wider anteriorly.
Spire produced beyond the right margin.
More elevated and more curved and narrower than A. concentricus Orb.
or barilensis Moric which are both much larger  decidedly narrower more convex and more curved than A. obliquus of which some hundreds of examples were collected by Dr.
Rush.
Length 3'75 breadth of aperture 17 height 15 mm.
Creek in the  Prado Montevideo Uruguay.
EXPLANATION OF PLATES VI AND VII.
Plate VI figs.
1 2 3 4.
Pisidium Sterkianum. 
  5 6 7.
Turbonilla dispar. 
  8 9 10.
Turbonilla Uruguayeusis. 
  11 12 13 14.
Ancylus Rushii. 
15 16.
Mesodesma Archavalettoi Ihering Pilsb.
about twotimes natural size. 
  17 18 19 20.
Pisidium vile. 
 fig.
21.
Halistylus circumstriatus.
Plate VII figs.
21 22 23.
Corbula Lyoni. 
 24 25 26.
Corbula Iheriugiana. 
 27 28 29.
Semele Abra 
Uruguayensis. 
fig.
30.
Thracia Rushii.
