LIST OF FISHES COLLECTED AT THE CANARY ISLANDS BY MR. 0.
F. COOK WITH DESCRIPTIONS OF FOUR NEW SPECIES.
BY DAVID STARR JORDAN AND JAMES ALEXANDER GUNN JR.
In 1891 Mr. O. F. Cook presented to the Museum of the Leland Stanford Junior University a valuable collection of fishes which he had obtained on a visit to the Canary Islands.
We give below an annotated list of the species contained in this collection with a description of those which are new.
The following species seem to be new to science.
Umbrina valida Jordan and Gunn No.
10584 L. S. Jr. U. Scorpcena rubelllo Jordan and Gunn No.
4291 L. S. Jr. U. Scorpcena teneviffea Jordan and Gunn No.
3111 L. S. Jr. U. Blennius canariensis Jordan and Gunn No.
4285 L. S. Jr. U.
Family GALEIDiE.
1.
Mustelus canis Mitehill.
One specimen.
Family SQUALID.
2.
Centrophorus granulosus Bloch  Schneider.
One specimen.
Family RAJIDJE.
3.
Raja clavata Linmtus.
One specimen.
It differs from Giinther's description in having three.
rows of clawlike spines along the tail instead of one and in the absence of a patch of clawlike spines on the side of the head and on the pectoral.
Family DASYATIDJS.
4.
Dasyatis pastinacea Linnteus.
Family LEPTOCEPHALIDiE.
5.
Leptocephalus conger Linnaeus.
One specimen.
It differs from the descriptions at hand in that the length of the pectoral fin is contained two aud onehalf times in that of the head instead of three and onehalf times.
Family MURiENIDJ.
6.
Muraena augusti Kaup
The one specimen of this species differs from Giinther's description in that the tubule of the anterior nostril instead of being as long as the diameter of the eye is only half that length.
7.
Muraena helena Linnaeus.
One specimen.
8.
Muraena melanotis Kaup
Two specimens.
9.
Lycodontis vicinus Castelnau .
Three specimens.
They differ from published descriptions in being mottled with whitish instead of with purplish or a darker brown than the body color.
We do not feel certain of their identity with this species and its synonymy as given by Jordan and Evermann is somewhat doubtful.
Family CLUPEID.ffi.
10.
Clupanodon maderensis Lowe.
One specimen.
The pectoral fins are shorter than described.
Family SYNODONTID.5J.
11.
Synodus saurus Linnanis.
Two specimens.
Family ESOCID.E.
12.
Esox belone Linnams.
One specimen.
Family MACRORHAMPHOSIDJE.
13.
Macrorhamphosus scolopax Linnaeus.
Eight specimens.
Family ATHERINIDJE.
14.
Atherina boyeri Risso.
Three specimens.
Family MUGILIDJE.
15.
Liza aurata Risso.
Four specimens.
Family SPHYR.ENIDJE.
16.
Sphyraena sphyraena Linnajus.
Four specimens.
Family MULLIDJE.
17.
Mullus surmuletus Linnaeus.
One specimen.
Family SCOMBRID.E.
18.
Scomber oolias Gnielin.
Four specimens.
Family GEMPHYLIDJ.
19.
Prometb.eicb.thys prometheus Cuv.
 Val..
The single specimen of this species has six extremely large canine teeth on the premaxillary instead of four as described and figured by Goode and Bean and by Cuvier and Valenciennes.
20.
Ruvettus pretiosus Cocc.
One specimen.
Family LEPIDOPODID.ffi.
21.
Lepidopus caudatus Euphrasen.
Two specimens.
Family CARANGIDJE.
22.
Trachurus picturatus Bowdich.
Two specimens.
23.
Hypodis glaucus Linnaeus.
One specimen.
Family SERRANIDjE.
24.
Serranus scriba Linnaeus.
Two specimens.
25.
Epinephelus guaza Linnaeus.
One single specimen Epinephelus gigas Brunnich differs from ordinary specimens by the absence of faint whitish spots arranged in vertical series.
Family SPARID.E3.
26.
Diplodus vulgaris Cuvier  Valenoiennes.
Two specimens.
27.
Diplodus sargus Linnreus.
Three specimens.
28.
Pagrus pagrus Linmeus.
Two specimens.
29.
Pagellus centrodontus Delaroche.
The single specimen of P. centrodontus in this collection has only eight soft rays in the anal fin instead of twelve  but the fish had evidently received an injury during life by which some of the posterior anal rays were torn away.
30.
Pagellus bogaraveo Briinnich.
One specimen.
31.
Pagellusmormyrus Linnaeus.
One specimen.
32.
Pagellus erythrinus Linnaeus.
One specimen.
Family KYPHOSIDJE.
33.
Spondyliosoma cantharus Linnaeus.
One specimen.
34.
Box boops Linnwus.
One specimen.
Family SCIJENIDJE.
35.
Umbrina valida Jordan  Gunn new species.
Head 3i in length depth 3 eye in head 3f  D. XI29 A. II 7  scales 74711.
Body rather stout back elevated ventral line from anal to lower lip nearly straight mouth low lower jaw embraced within upper when mouth is closed  maxillary extending to vertical from anterior edge of pupil  snout blunt rounded scaly extending a little beyond premaxillary  anterior nostril circular a membrane half closing it on posteroventral side  posterior nostril large pyriform slightly nearer to orbit than to anterior nostril a membrane nearly half closing it on dorsal side  teeth villiform subequal in broad bands which are interrupted at median line in both jaws preopercle denticulate on its bony edge  barbel below symphysis short thick blunt third and fourth dorsal spines longest 2 in head  pectorals equal to or slightly longer than ventrals and reaching more than halfway to vent If in head caudal truncate except for three or four dorsal rays which are abruptly produced second anal spine strong 2f in head  gill rakers 5 10 short thick.
Color in spirits yellowisholive with a dark violet streak along each row of scales these streaks intersect with the lateral line vertical and ventral fins dark  pectorals dark behind.
One specimen from Canary Islands 30 cm.
long exclusive of caudal collected by O. F. Cook.
This wellmarked species is nearest to Umbrina coroides Cuvier  Valenciennes.
The latter has at all ages wellmarked black crossbands.
Family POMACENTRIDJE.
36.
Chromis chromis Linnaeus.
One specimen.
37.
Abudefduf luridus Broussonet.
The two specimens of this species agree perfectly with the genus Abudefduf as defined by Jordan and Evermann except that the teeth are not emarginate.
The front teeth are truncate and those in the sides of the mouth rounded.
This species agrees in this regard with Stegastes imbricatus Jenyns but in the genus or subgenus Stegastes the snout is fully scaled.
Family LABRIDJE.
38.
Centrolabrus trutta Lowe.
Two specimens.
39.
Diastodon scrofa Cuvier  Valenciennes.
Two specimens.
40.
Sparisoma cretense Linnaeus.
Four specimens.
41.
Thalassoma unimaculatum Lowe.
Head 3 J  depth 3 J  eye in head 5i in interorbital width 1  snout in head 2.
D. VIII13  A. IIIll  scales 2 to 326 to 29 9 to 10 before D. 6.
Bodycolor in spirits olivegray  perpendicular violetblack or reddishbrown streaks extending across centers of scales twothirds down sides of body and alternating with white streaks which extend to ventral surface crossing these are faint longitudinal white streaks extending along each row of scales and sometimes giving body a meshwork appearance  top of head and snout black or violet  a more or less distinct black stripe from eye to near posterior edge of opercle  pectorals with a small black spot superiorly in axil or not darkened at tip or not  outer rays of caudal extended along and darkened  basal onethird of anal violet the outer twothirds white  a black spot on the back at each side of dorsal at bases of second to fifth soft rays  dorsal with a broad darkviolet stripe along its whole length leaving a narrow white margin along the crest and the base the latter usually interrupted by union of black spot of back and violet stripe of fin.
Five specimens from Canary Islands 7.5 to 10 cm.
long exclusive of caudal  collected by O. F. Cook.
This specimen is apparently distinct from Thalassoma pavo differing at least in color.
Family TETRAODONTIDJE.
42.
Sphseroides spengleri Bloch.
Two specimens.
Family SCOBPJENIDJE.
43.
Scorpaena rubellio Jordan  Gunn new species.
Head 2  depth 3  eye in head 4 in interorbital width f  snout in head 31.
D. XII10  A. Ill 5  scales ctenoid and rather small 72616 before D. 6.
Breast closely covered with small smooth scales  ctenoid scales on operculum and on posterior part of cheek above suborbital ridge  a single horizontal row of scales some of them smooth below suborbital ridge and near them a few scattered cupshaped rudimentary ones  on top of head from occiput to nostrils are scattered minute cupshaped or flat scales imbedded in the skin upon each of which is produced usually from the posterior edge one or two upright prickles.
Interorbital area moderately concave its longitudinal ridges hardly perceptible.
No occipital or subocular groove or pit.
Supraorbital and anterior nasal plumules each shorter than diameter of pupil.
Three moderate spines on supraorbital crest followed posteriorly by a row of three others  two rather low opercular ridges ending in spines  a series of three spines behind middle of eye the first one directed upward the third with a smaller one above it.
Suborbital ridge moderate bearing two spines  behind it two closely apposed spines on edge of preopercle the hinder one larger  below these and also on edge of preopercle a row of four short stout spines.
The anterior and posteroventral extremities of preorbital produced into spines which project over the maxillary.
Two pairs of barbels attached nearer lip than median line.
Fourth dorsal spine longest  2 in head  last soft ray joined by membrane for nearly its whole length to the back.
Second anal spine longest longer than longest dorsal.
Last ventral ray attached to the body by membrane for half its length.
Body color in spirits reddishbrown  a dark area at origin of lateral line fading posteriorly.
Head covered with dark specks.
Dorsal mottled with reddishbrown and light.
The dark base of caudal separated by a light area from the dark spots arranged in three or four transverse bars on the distal twothirds of the rays.
Anal chiefly dark with only a few white specks.
Ventrals white shaded with a little brown.
Numerous scattered brown specks on rays of pectoral.
On the posterior side of base of pectoral and gradually diminishing in number posteriorly in the axil and on the body area which the fin covers when folded back are numerous white specks about as large as the pores of lateral line.
One specimen from Canary Islands  length 9.5 cm.
exclusive of caudal  collected by O. F. Cook.
This species is allied to Scorpcena porcus but differs in the armature of the head in the coloration and in the more densely scaled breast.
44.
Scorpsena teneriffea Jordan  Gunn new species.
Head 2  depth 3  eye in head 3 in interorbital width   snout in head 4.
D. XII10  A. III5  scales 62513 before D. 2.
Breast and head scaleless latter pustulate spinous without tentacles except over anterior nostrils  a deep interorbital groove corrugated by a furrow along its bottom and terminating posteriorly in a deeper transverse occipital groove which is continuous with the postorbital cavities.
A pair of small spines in occipital groove two pairs of large ones behind it  a large hooked spine in each postorbital pit half way between which and the large suprascapular spine are two short broad ones  one or two small spines in anterior part of postorbital pit  a large spine anteriorly and two small ones posteriorly on supraorbital ridge  two internasal spines  preorbital with anterior and posteroventral extremities produced into spines and with three or four median spines the anterior of which is largest and all of which together with the one at posteroventral extremity project over the maxillary  suborbital ridge strong with three spines  behind these and situated on the posterior edge of preopercle are two closely apposed spines the hinder one the larger  below this point and also on posterior edge of preopercle are four short stout spines two ridges the lower one stronger cross the opercle terminating posteriorly in strong spines a strong humeral spine above axil.
Scales ctenoid moderately large.
Third and fourth dorsal spines longest more than half length of head.
Second anal spine longest nearly equal to longest dorsal.
.
23 Color in spirits reddishbrown above white and yellowishwhite below  a dark area on lower part of cheek and opercle  a small dark spot above and one or two behind axil of pectoral  irregular dark spots on pectoral lower rays tipped with white  spinous dorsal slightly darkened a few dark spots on soft dorsal.
Caudal fanshaped almost immaculate at base but with large dark spots between the rays disposed in two or three transverse bars in the central region of fin and irregularly near its extremity.
Anal white with a few dark spots  ventrals white with one or two spots.
One specimen 13.5 cm.
long from Canary Islands collected by O. F. Cook.
This species seems to be distinct from the Madeira species Scorpcena ustulate Lowe to which it is allied.
Family GOBIIDJE.
45.
Gobius niger Linnaeus.
One specimen.
Family TRACHINIDJE.
46.
Trachinus draco Linrnvus.
Three specimens.
Family BLENNIIDJE.
47.
Labrisomus nucbipinnis Quoy  Gaimard.
In the two specimens of this species the band of villiform teeth is broader behind the upper front teeth than that behind the lower.
48.
Blennius oanariensis Jordan  Gunn new species.
Head 4  depth 4  eye in head 4 in interorbital width .
D. XI22  A.
1122  snout rounded obtuse 3 in head.
Two canine teeth in each jaw the lower ones twice as large as the upper incisors long villiform in single series in each jaw not fixed.
Dorsal beginning above margin of preopercle continuous extending to caudal but not uniting with it.
Ventrals inserted below origin of dorsal 7 in bodylength.
Distance of anal from caudal equals diameter of eye.
Supraorbital cirrus bifid as long as half diameter of eye  anterior nostril with a flap equalling onethird diameter of eye.
Caudal fanshaped.
Body color in spirits reddishbrown whitish below  posterior half of body sometimes whitish in which case three longitudinal interrupted brown stripes extend over the light part.
Ventrals and pectorals reddishbrown  vertical fins darker  anal dark violet the rays tipped with white and sometimes whitish at base.
Two specimens from Canary Islands 10 and 10.5 cm.
long collected by O. F. Cook.
This species seems to be different from Blennius tentacularis and from all others with which we have been able to compare it.
Family TRIGLIDJE.
49.
Trigla hirundo Linnaeus.
One specimen.
50.
Trigla lineata Linmcus.
One specimen.
Family GATHDffi.
51.
Urophycis mediterraneus Delaruche.
One specimen.
Family PLEITRONECTID.ffi.
52.
Platophrys podas Delaroehe.
The three specimens of this species differ from published descriptions in having a reentrant angle at the base of the snout and in not having an angle opposite the upper eye.
Family SOLEIDJE.
53.
Solea lascaris Risso.
Two specimens.
54.
Quenselia ocellata Linnaus.
One specimen.
