VIRGINIA AND NORTH CAROLINA  INDICATION OF THE GEOLOGICAL AGE OF THE DEPOSIT.
BY LEWIS WOOLMAN.
WITH Notes ON THE DIATOMS.
BY CHARLES S. BOYER.
During the winter of 189798 the Dismal Swamp Canal was widened and deepened and the level of the central portion lowered so as to dispense with the middle two of the four locks heretofore in use.
The work was done by the McManus Construction Company of Philadelphia steam rotary dredging machines being used in excavating.
These dredges brought up from the bottom at points both south and north of the VirginiaNorth Carolina boundary large numbers of marine mollusks.
Through the appreciative interest in scientific matters of M. Homer Secretary and Treasurer of the Construction Company we have been furnished on three occasions with specimens of these shells which he specially and personally collected on his visits to the field of operations.
It is the purpose of this paper to put on record the species of these shells and also of the marine diatoms which were associated with them in the same matrix and to indicate though perhaps tentatively from a study of both the macroscopic and microscopic fossils the geological age of the bed from which they were obtained.
The Dismal Swamp Canal connects on the south at a point near South Mills N. C with the headwaters of the Pasquotank River a tributary of Albemarle Sound and on the north at a point near Deep Creek with the waters of the south branch of the Elizabeth River a tributary of the James River and the Chesapeake Bay.
The general direction of the canal between these two points is northward with however a decidedly obtuse angled bend or bow to the westward the angle being near Drummond Lake from which a feeder canal brings the water from the Jake into the main canal.
This feeder was also deepened.
M. Homer states that the shells furnished by him were obtained from the following localities   1st.
 A point on the main canal in North Carolina two to three miles south of the Virginia boundary.
2d.
 A point on the main canal in Virginia about five miles north of the feeder or four miles north of Wallaceton a small Post Office and settlement on drained land near the centre of the swamp.
3d.
 A point about midway of the feeder say one and onehalf miles west of its junction with the main canal.
A noticeable peculiarity as stated by M. Homer is that the collections from the main canal from both the Virginia and North Carolina localities contain great numbers of the large conch Fulgur carica while this shell is wanting in those thrown out from the feeder.
Here however the oysters Ostrea virginiea are exceedingly numerous and many of them are of extra large size one specimen in the possession of M. Homer measuring ten inches in length and four and onehalf inches in width.
But few specimens comprising only three species were brought from the locality south of the VirginiaNorth Carolina line.
M. Homer however states that the shells seemed as varied in form and as plentiful there as north of Wallaceton.
In one lump of clay matrix about the size of a walnut obtained from the bottom of the dredgings north of Wallaceton we discovered on a preliminary microscopic examination a very few diatoms and a few though perhaps a slightly larger number of sponge spicules.
A separation and cleaning of the diatoms from this lump of clay was made by a fellow member of the Academy John A. Shulze after which the forms were identified by another member Prof. C. S. Boyer.
The mollusks were jointly identified by Prof. H. A. Pilsbry of the Conchological Section of the Academy and C. W. Johnston Curator of the Wagner Free Institute of Science.
Below we tabulate the mollusks according to their range in geological time into three columns headed Miocene M Pliocene P and Recent R  under Recent are included both Pleistocene and now living forms.
On the right in two additional columns we note the occurrence of such of the forms as have been found in the Croatan N. C and the Waccamaw S. C beds both of which contain a somewhat similar molluscan fauna.
The geological range as noted in the first three columns we take from Dr. W. H. Dall's  Tables of Species  from the Waccamaw and the Croatan beds.
1 1 Transactions of the Wagner Free Institute of Science Vol.
Ill Part 2 pages 210 to 215.
The Croatan beds are in North Carolina about 120 miles slightly west of south of the Dismal Swamp and about eighteen miles from the nearest point on the coast.
They are on the northern border of a similar swamp area on the southern side of the Neuse River and are about fifteen miles below Newbern.
Both the Croatan and the Dismal Swamp shell localities are approximately 75 or 80 miles eastward of the rocks of the Piedmont plateau which rocks bound the inland border of the less consolidated beds of the Atlantic Coastal plain.
The two localities occupy a similar position both geographically and stratigraphically.
The Waccamaw beds are in the extreme eastern part of the State of South Carolina and are exposed along the banks of the Waccamaw River from some four miles to about 18 miles above Conway.
They are on low ground and are also on the western side of another of the swamp areas that occur on the seaward margin of the coastal plain from Cape May County N. J. to South Carolina and Georgia.
Geographically they are similarly situated to the Croatan and the Dismal Swamp localities.
Fossil mollusks from the Croatan and the Waccamaw localities have been carefully studied and listed I y Dr. W. H. Dall who refers both beds to the Pliocene.
The fauna however when considered with reference to the percentage of recent over extinct forms would indicate that the Croatan beds were slightly the younger of the two deposits there being according to Dr. Dall 83 per cent of recent forms in the Croatan and only 70 per cent in the Waccamaw beds.
In summing up Dr. Dall says  the Croatan beds are obviously newer than those of the Waccamaw yet when compared with the admitted Pleistocene beds of South Carolina such as those of Simmons Bluff the presence on the Neuse  the locality of the Croatan beds  of 41 out of 90 species which have not been known later than the Pliocene forbids us to regard the fauna as later than Pliocene.
In the study of the mollusks from the Dismal Swamp Canal the writer has had the advantage of some correspondence with Dr. W. H. Dall and of consultation with Prof. H. A. Pilsbry and C. W. Johnson the latter of whom has collected a full series of shells from the Croatan beds and a like series from the Waccamaw beds both of which collections are now displayed in the Museum of the Wagner Free Institute of Science of Philadelphia and with which the shells from the Dismal Swamp have been carefully compared.
The three species previously noted as having been collected from the bottom of the old south level near South Mills N. C were Urosalpinx cinerea Fulgur carica and Ostrea virginica  the elevation of the surface at this point being about 11 feet.
All the forms however listed below excepting Urosalpinx cinerea Say were obtained from a locality along the Deep Creek level of the Old Canal at a point four miles north of Wallaceton Va. and from a depth of about ten feet the elevation of the surface being about sixteen feet.
The Deep Creek level is next north of the summit level of the old canal the latter having an elevation of about twenty feet.
Ostrea virginica generally much larger and more numerous than at South Mills or at north of Wallaceton was likewise brought up in the dredgings from the bottom of the feeder leading from Drummond Lake say at approximately ten feet below the surface level which at the point under consideration is about twenty feet above tide the elevation of the surface of the lake being according to a survey made by the U. S. Engineers during the winter of 18951896 22 T VV feet.
Mollusks from the base of a low escarpment on the western border of the swamp near Suffolk Va. and near the Jericho Canal which leads northwestwardly from Lake Drummoud to the Nansemond River have been noted by Prof. N. S. Shaler.
After listing the species as identified by Dr. W. H. Dall he says Traces of this same deposit occur a few miles south of Suffolk and I suspect the existence of similar beds near Elizabeth City.
From certain comminuted fragments taken from the bottom of the main Dismal Swamp Canal it seems to me not improbable that the beds were touched in making that excavation.
I am therefore disposed to believe that the foundation rocks beneath the swamp district consist mainly of the beds indicated by the foregoing list of fossils.
2 Prof. Shaler thus indicates fossil beds which the recent deepening of the Dismal Swamp Canal has abuudantly verified though very few of the species in Prof. Shaler's collection and our own are the same  and yet as will be seen further on upon analyzing the forms in the two collections they tell a similar geological tale.
We now insert tables of the mollusks from the Dismal Swamp and the Jericho Canal localities.
2 Tenth Annual Eeport U. S. Geol.
Survey page 316.
418 1898.
TABLE OF SPECIES OF MOLLUSKS DREDGED FROM THE DISMAL SWAMP CANAL IN NORTH CAROLINA AND VIRGINIA.
Mollusks.
Area limula Conr. one Area plicatura Conr. var.
sublineolata D'Orb. numerous Corbula eontraeta Say Cytheiea convexa Say   C. say ana Conr.
Midi nia Maetra lateralis Say Nit eula proxima Say  Venus mercenaria Lara'k Lueina crenulata Conr Olivella nitidula Dillw Polynices Natiea A T everita duplicata Say... Tornatina Bulla canalieulata Say Nassa obsoleta Say few Divarieella Lueina quadrisulcata D'Orb Cezcum cooperi Smith Ostrea virginiea Gmel Crepiiula plana Say Eupleura caudata Say Fulgur canaheulatum S'ay  one Fulgur carica Gmel. numerous Nassa trivitta t a Say numerous Scala lineataSaj Turbonilla reticulata Ads Spisula Maetra solidissima Dillw Tellina tenera Say Solen americanus Gmel Urosalpinx cinerea Say Coral.
Astrangia danae Agas Range in time.
M. P. R. x X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X a 5  O  o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 33 o jS CO a a a 3 is 93  33 o o o o o o o o For comparison with the above we tabulate in a similar manner the list of fossils obtained by Prof. N. S. Shaler from the northwestern part of the Dismal Swamp near Suffolk and identified by Dr. Dall.
We take the list from Prof. Shaler's monograph on the Dismal Swamp in the Tenth Annual Report of the United States Geological Survey page 315.
1898.
419 TABLE OF MOLLUSCAN SPECIES FOUND IN BEDS EXPOSED BY A ROAD CUTTING NEAR THE JERICHO CANAL TWO MILES EAST OF SUFFOLK VA. Area incile Conr Crassatella undnlata Say Mactra congesta Conr Anachis Columbella avara Say Turrit ella apical is Hp.
var. 
Pecten eboreus Conr Abra aequalis Say Callista convexa Say  C say ana Conr.
Eryphvla lunata Conr Gouldia cerina Ad Leda acuta Conr Lucina crenulata Conr Yoldia limatula Say Dosinia eegans Conr Ostrea virginica Gmel Pecten exasperatus Sowb Crepidula convexa Say Liomesus stimpsonii Dall Turbonilla inierrupta Totten Cadulus caroinensis Bush Cardium islandicutn Lin Chione albida Gmel Nucula tenuis Mtg Tellina tenia Say Tellina modesta Verrill Seaaria clathratula Adams Ethalia Sp.
fragm Eulima Sp.

Balanus Sp.

Range in time.
M. P. R. x X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X a o CO C T3 a Q a OS a o o O o o  CO 41 a  a 2 J 0
O o o o o Of the 26 species of mollusks from near Wallaceton 17 occur at both Croatan and Waccamaw 2 others occur at Croatan and not at Waccamaw and still 2 others at Waccamaw and not at Croatan while 5 have not been recorded at either of these two localities.
Of the 26 specifically identified out of the 29 forms from near Jericho 6 occur at both Croatan and Waccamaw 1 occurs at Croatan only and 3 at Waccamaw only while 16 more than half of which are recent have not been noted at either of these localities.
420 1898.
In the lists above there are but 3 species occurring injboth localities viz.
 Cyiherea convexa Liicina crenulata and Ostrea virginica.
Adding the numbers in the two lists and deducting these three since they have been counted twice we find there are altogether 52 molluscan forms of which 3 are not specifically identified.
Analyzing the remaining 49 we find their numbers range in geological time as follows   M. M.  P. P. M. P.  K. P.  R E.  From near Wallaceton 3 3 3 2 1 1 1 11 7 9 6 426 826 Deduct common to both 3 18 2 15 1 1252 3 Tots 3 1 16 14 1249 fr ich it will be seen that there are .iocene and prePliocene forms 7 species.
Ranging from Miocene to Recent 16 species.
Both Pliocene and Recent 14 species.
Recent including Pleistocene 12 species.
Judging from these proportionate figures alone which show 42 forms still living out of a total of 49 the writer would be inclined to assign the age of the beds from which these fossils were obtained as not earlier than late Pliocene time while it may even possibly belong to Pleistocene time.
We may however more particularly note other reasons for this conclusion as to age.
Twentysix or fully onehalf of the shells specifically identified clearly have a postMiocene aspect including two forms Fulgur carica and Ostrea virginica which are the most numerous of the collection.
The specimens of F. carica present a peculiarity of sculpture which distinguishes them from the shells now living upon the coast the surface being densely scored by fine crimped or undulating spiral stria in fully adult large individuals.
In recent shells of similar size such striation is nearly obsolete or wholly wanting even when the superficial coat has not been removed by erosion.
Sixteen other forms have a persistent range from the Miocene through the Pliocene and Pleistocene periods down to the present time.
If we include these 16 as representatives of recent time we have as noted above 42  or as pointed out by Dr. Dall in a letter from which we quote  nearly all the species as recent.
One other form Area lunula is usually considered distinctively Miocene but its presence may be accounted for by considering it as an introduction from the underlying Miocene beds which are probably not over 50 feet from the surface in this region.
Bearing upon this the writer may say that he has in his possession artesian well borings recently made at Old Point Comfort and Norfolk Va. At Old Point Comfort at the depth of 50 feet were a number of shells among them such Miocene forms as Dosinia acetabulum and Pecten madisonius while at Norfolk there were obtained at the depth of 105 feet a fragment of Pecten madisonius at 115 feet a perfect shell of Gnathodon clathrodon and at 175 feet a fragment of Pecten ehoreus.
Respecting another form in the DismabSwamp bed Arc.
licatura or perhaps a variety thereof Dr. Dall says after an ex ination by him of a number of specimens of this species which d sent him  The Area you send is one which occurs in the  County Natural Well North Carolina and which was namK.
j Conrad Area lineolata  but as there was already a species of this name D'Orbigny renamed it sublineolata.
It appears to be a mutation of J. plicatura to which I have referred it in my MS. work on the Tertiary Areas of the United States.
There was one Pliocene species in the fossils from the Jericho Canal 3 and as the Duplin beds are at the very top of the Miocene it would not be strange if A. sublineolata overlapped.
Bearing still further upon the entire subject we further quote Dr. Dall from the same letter    The species from your list are all recent except Area limula and Area sublineolata' but some of them are not now found so far north.
Now we know that in Pliocene times some northward advance was made by the warm water species such as Gnathodon and Gyrena.
There are too many recent species assuming that the fauna is not a mechanical mixture of shells of different ages for the refer3 This has reference to the bed near Suffolk the forms from which appear in the second of the preceding lists.
4 Reference is here made only to the first list that from near Wallaceton.
ence of this fauna to the Upper Miocene  and we know that the extinct species A limula and A. lineolata are not quaternary even in Florida  so subject to the above assumption I think we shall have to regard it as Pliocene.
    The Croatan beds are distinctively Pliocene but these are more like the contact between the southern Pliocene and a more northern cold water fauna.
Corroborative of the views already advanced as to the age of this bed is the following written by Prof. N. S. Shaler respecting the mollusks listed above from near the Jericho Canal   The species determined by W. H. Dall paleontologist of the U. S. Geological Survey indicates in a general manner that the beds are of Pliocene age.
Of the 29 species that appear in my collection 24 according to Dr. Dall belong to living forms and 5 are extinct.
The extinct species are found in the socalled Pliocene of Florida South Carolina and Virginia.
There can be no question the deposit is of preglacial age.
5 We now consider the evidence presented by the diatom flora which we think corroborates that presented by the mollusks for reasons which we shall note after the introduction of the following statement by Charles S. Boyer A. M. Made by him after a careful examination of a number of mounts prepared from the material which had been reliably cleaned as already stated by John A. Shulze and to which we are well assured there has been no admixture of diatoms from any other source   The following list includes all the forms 31 in number found in the slides of the Dismal Swamp material except a few fragments which were too small for accurate determination.
In the middle column is noted the relative frequency and rarity of some of the forms in comparison with the rest as seen in the strewn mounts    Of the above forms all but four are strictly marine.
The exceptions are Navicula major and Stauroneis Phoenicenteron which are fresh water Campylodiscus Echeneis which is both brackish and fresh water and Melosira crenulata var.
antique which is possibly also fresh water. 
I think I have named all on the slides at hand except probably one or two forms of Coscinodiscus and Navicula which were in fragments.
5 Tenth Annual Report U. S. Geol.
Survey page 315.
423 1898.
 Of the 31 named 2 Actinoptychus Heliopelta and Aulacodiscus Rogersii are distinctly Miocene  4 Coscino discus robustus Stephanopyxis aculeata and Corona and Triceratium semicirculare are quite Common Rare Common Not uncommon Not uncommon Common Miocene and Recent Miocene only Miocene and Recent Miocene only Miocene and Recent Miocene and Recent Biddulphia Rhombus E. Wm.Sm Miocene and Recent Miocene and Recent Fossil in Deposits later than Miocene also Recent.
Brackish and Fresh Water.
Later than Miocene also Recent Miocene and Recent Miocene and Recent Miocene and Recent Miocene and Recent Miocene and Recent Miocene Miocene and Recent Recent Although var.
antiqua Cox is found in the Miocene Later than Miocene Miocene and Recent Miocene and Recent Miocene and Recent Melosira crenulata var.
ambigua Grun.
Fossil in Hungarian deposit Miocene 
 as however there are numerous varieties which are recent this Fresh W r ater 
Recent marine Miocene to PleistoPlagiogranuna Gregorianum Grev.. .
cene also Recent Fresh Water.
Miocene and Recent Miocene and Recent Stauroneis Pkcenicenteron Nitzsch E... Later than Miocene also Recent Fresh Water.
Miocene Miocene Miocene and Recent Miocene characteristic of that period while of the remaining 25 onl r 4 Campy lodiscus Eeheneis Cerataulus turgidus Eupodiscas radiatus and Stauroneis Phoenicenteron can be considered as distinctive of later deposits. 
In general therefore it may be said that the deposit can be considered as a mixture of Miocene and later deposits though the latter need not necessarily have been so very recent.
From an examination of the above list of diatoms the present author would classify them as follows  Six forms characteristically Miocene 19 forms that have survived from Miocene to present time and are now living and 4 either Pliocene or Pleistocene or both and also now living.
These 4 are the same as those noted above by C. S. Boyer as distinctive of deposits later than Miocene.
If the 19 survivals belong to present time there are 23 that may be considered recent or comparatively so.
Respecting the exclusively Miocene forms it is probable that these have been brought down in postMiocene times by the James River in its passage over the original beds from Richmond southeastward.
It is probable also that some of the individuals of perhaps each of the 19 species having the more cosmopolitan range were also similarly introduced.
We are confirmed in this view by the occurrence among the characteristic Miocene diatoms of Actinoptychus Heliopelta a form which the writer has frequently found heretofore both in outcrops and in well borings but always at or below the base of the great 300 to 400 feet Miocene diatomaceous clay bed of the Atlantic Coastal Plain.
In Maryland it occurs at the base of this bed in well borings at Crisfield and in outcrops at and near Nottingham on the Patuxent River.
In Virginia it has been found in outcrops at Petersburg and Bermuda Hundred.
In New Jersey owing probably to a thickening of the basal beds of the Miocene it occurs some distance below the main diatom bed.
It has thus been found in outcrops near Shiloh and in well borings at Asbury Park and Wildwood.
At the latter place it was found in a thin seam of clay about 250 feet below the bottom of the great diatom bed.
In each instance just cited its position is at or very near the base of the Miocene either resting directly upon or only a short distance above greensands of Eocene Age.
Many other borings have been made in New Jersey through or nearly through these beds from which the writer has had complete series of specimens every 10 to 20 feet apart all of which he has examined but in none of them has he ever found A. Heliopelta stratigraphically higher than near the base of the Miocene.
Now the diatom bed outcropping at Richmond Petersburg and vicinity has been found by the writer in the Norfolk well boring at between the depths of 585 and 625 feet while the continuation upward of the same clay contained sponge spicules up to about 400 feet from the surface.
No diatoms or sponge spicules were found higher in this well excepting between the depths of 25 feet and 65 feet where a stratum probably the equivalent of the Dismal Swamp bed contained these same microorganisms though as in the Dismal Swamp deposit very sparingly.
The Miocene beds at Bermuda Hundred and Petersburg are rich in diatoms and especially so ii A. Heliopelta and since the diatoms in the Dismal Swamp deposit were exceedingly meager perhaps not one per cent of the entire matrix and since A. Heliopelta and other Miocene species were scantiest in numbers of all the contained forms we cannot in view of all the facts consider that the introduction of these Miocene forms has been by other than mechanical means in postMiocene times.
At what period that subsequent time was three of the more recent forms Campy lodiscus Echenels Cerataulus turgidus and Stauroneis Phoenieenteron shed much light.
We will now particularly notice each of these forms.
In a mass of brick clay from a low terrace at Bridgeton N. J. which terrace is assigned by the New Jersey State Geological Survey report to a very recent geological phase of the gravels of that State the writer found a very considerable number of diatoms not at all Miocene in aspect and among them a large number of the same species of Cerataulus.
Respecting Campylo discus Eeheneis it may be stated that this form has been recorded as living principally in brackish waters the world over though Prof. C. S. Boyer informs the writer that he has found it in a fresh water reservoir at Philadelphia supplied from the Schuylkill River.
Though not however heretofore recorded so far as we are able to learn as fossil yet the writer has so seen it in a low level clay from near Buckskutem on the Maurice River below Millville N. J. the stratigraphical position of which is the equivalent of the Bridgeton clay above referred to.
On a map of the surface formations of New Jersey in the annual' report of the geological survey of that State for 1897 there is showna low level formation on the shores of Raritan Bay and thence bordering the Atlantic Ocean from Sandy Hook to the Cape May peninsula which it either entirely covers or nearly so and thence extending up the Delaware River nearly to Trenton.
This low lying terrace 28 which is stated in the text to have an elevation of 30 to 50 feet extends inland along the courses of the following streams  some 20 miles up the Mullica and the Great Egg Harbor Rivers about 25 miles up the Maurice River and some 10 miles up the Cohansey River.
These measurements were made in a direct line from the mouths of the rivers and not by following the winding courses thereof.
The surface deposit of this terrace has been named by Prof. R. D. Salisbury the Cape May Formation.
He describes it as a 'thin body of loam sand and gravel of lesser age than any  of the surface formations of the State described in the same paper  except possibly the drift of the last glacial epoch.
He further says  The strict contemporaneity of this formation with the drift of the last glacial epoch is not established but it is probably at least partly contemporaneous with it though its later portions may be still younger.
6 To this formation belong the diatom clays noted in the preceding paragraphs as at Bridgeton and Buckshutem.
Stauroneis Phoenicenteron has never been seen by the writer in any of the numerous specimens of Miocene diatomaceous clays which he has examined during the past ten years nor has it so far as he has been able to learn from consultation of the literature relating to it been recorded by others as occurring in beds of that age.
It has however a world wide distribution in freshwater deposits of decidedly later age.
Ehrenberg in the Atlas of his Mikrogeologie notes it in various sands and black white and gray earths at numerous localities named below most of which the writer would characterize from their position stratigraphically and geographically as decidedly postmiocene and some of them as clearly glacial and postglacial.
Thus Ehrenberg lists this diatom on page 19 of his Atlas as occurring in various earths and at different places as follows   in lake mud from Loka Sweden  in Bergmehl from Degenfors and Lillhaggsjohn Sweden also from Santa Fiora Italy and from the south point of Tierra del Fuego S. A. in Bliitterkohl from Westerwalde Prussia in white earth from Guatemala in Kieselguhr from Andover Pelham and Wrentham Massachusetts  from Ceyssatt France  from Down Mourne Mountains Ireland  from New Hampshire and from Earlton Nova Scotia  in white marl Mergee  from Farmington Conn. in Meteorpapier from Rauden Prussia in tripoli and polishing powder from Moscow Russia and in Weisenpapier from Freiberg Saxony.
Annual Report Geol.
Survey of N. J. 1S97 page 19.
It has also been found fossil by Prof. C. S. Boyer in specimens of clays obtained by the writer from tbe upper portions of two well borings one on the beach at Wildwood 7 Cape May Co. N. J. and the other at Rock Hall 8 Md. on the eastern side of Chesapeake Bay opposite the mouth of the Patapsco river.
The clays referred to occupied at Wildwood the interval between the depths of 79 and 181 feet and at Rock Hall a similar interval between the depths of 50 and 130 feet.
The clays at both localities contained a mixture of freshwater and marine diatoms the numbers of individuals of the freshwater forms somewhat exceeding those of the marine.
That these two deposits are probably synchronous in age appears probable from the similarity of their position next below the surface formation Cape May formation 
 also from the similarity of the assembled forms of diatoms and from the occurrence in both of a unique diatom Polymyxus coronalis L. W. Bailey not however found in our examination of the forms in the Dismal Swamp bed.
This form has not been heretofore known except as living off the mouths of the Para and Amazon Rivers in South America.
That the two deposits are much later than Miocene in age may be inferred from the fact that the one at Rock Hall lies directly upon the Rancocas division of the Cretaceous the Miocene itself resting at a higher level upon Eocene beds a few miles southward and eastward  while at Wildwood the top of the great Miocene diatom clay bed occurs nearly 200 feet deeper than the base of the deposit under consideration or at the depth of 370 feet from the surface.
The well borings however show that apparently the same Miocene clay but without diatoms commences at the depth of 294 feet.
These two deposits containing Polymyxus coronalis and Stauroneis Phoenicenteron the writer suggests were probably laid down in the deltas of the ancient Delaware and Chesapeake Rivers at the time when the shore line of the Atlantic Coastal plain was many miles eastward of its present position and much of the now submerged portion of the plain was above sea level.
SUMMARY.
After considering the position of the Dismal Swamp bed beneath a low lying terrace on the eastern margin of the Coastal Plain and evidently resting immediately upon fossiliferous Miocene beds which T An.
Report Geol.
Survey of N. J. for 1894 page 165.
8 In manuscript not yet published.
can be traced westward along the James River some eighty miles or more to Richmond Va. and after a careful study and analysis of the contained mollusks and diatoms the conclusion before stated has been reached that both the macroscopic and the microscopic fossils indicate a mechanical mixture of the Miocene and a comparatively recent fauna and flora 9 the Miocene forms having been contributed and brought down by erosion from the broad and somewhat higher and gradually rising Miocene belt to the westward while the more recent forms lived and were deposited as the bed was laid down in a more recent geological time.
If we accept the conclusions of all the authorities we have quoted who have studied the Dismal Swamp deposit we should have to refer this bed unequivocally to the Pliocene period.
The writer however cannot resist inferring from the scantiness of Miocene fossils which as already noted he views as mechanically introduced  from the wide range of many of the Pliocene mollusks extending down to the present time  from the very decidedly recent aspect of many other shells  and from the even more decidedly recent aspect of some of the diatoms a more recent date for the bed and therefore considers that it cannot belong to a period earlier than the latest Pliocene and that it may indeed even belong quite within Pleistocene time.
Specimens of all the mollusks listed from the Dismal Swamp Canal have been presented to the Academy of Natural Sciences by M. Homer and are now arranged in its paleontological collection while strewn mounts of the diatoms have been deposited in the cabinet of the Biological and Microscopical Section by the author.
9 Diatoms are now generally regarded as belonging to the plant kingdom.
1898.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
429 September 6.
Professor Henry A. Pilsbry in the Chair.
Eight persons present.
September 13.
Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman in the Chair.
Seventeen persons present.
A paper entitled  New Cretaceous Fossils from an Artesian WeilBoring at Mount Laurel N. J. by C. W. Johnson was presented for publication.
September 20.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M. D. in the Chair.
Fifteen persons present.
The deaths of Win.
H. DeCamp and J. C. H. Crosse Correspondents were announced.
A paper entitled  Contributions to a Knowledge of the Hymenoptera of Brazil No.
5 Vespidse by Wm.
J.
Fox was presented for publication.
September 27.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M. D. in the Chair.
Thirty persons present.
A paper entitled New Species of Odontostomus from Brazil and Argentina by Henry A. Pilsbry was presented for publication.
Thomas L. Montgomery was elected a member.
The following were ordered to be printed   HYALODENDRON NA VALIUM A NEW GENUS AND SPECIES OF EUPLECTELLID SPONGE.
BY J. PERCY MOORE.
The type of this genus and species is one of a small collection of silicious sponges gathered in Japan in 1893 by Mr. Frederick Stearns of Detroit Michigan and sent to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia for determination.
They were collected by native fishermen and brought into Yokohama harbor by the dredge boats.
The single specimen of Hyalodendron is the only one which had been reported by the fishermen.
Other than this no data relating to the collection are available.
The specimens are accompanied by a set of sketches by a native artist.
The species represented are in addition to Hyalodendron Euplectella anchor spicules of probably E. aspergillum Owen Hyalonema reflexa Ijima a fine specimen of this recently described species and Farrea occa Bowerbank Carter an unusually large example.
HYALODENDRON nov. gen. Hyalodendron navalium n. s. The general appearance of the type and only specimen is well shown on Plate XIX reproduced from a sketch by a Japanese artist which accompanied the collection.
The sponge was originally about 18 inches high but is now slightly mutilated at the summit.
It presents a firm base above which rises a slender tapering body or stalk ending in a sharp apex and bearing numerous lateral branches of various sizes at the bases of which the sponge wall is perforated by large craterlike openings.
The base is a thin flat and spreading encrusting layer which has evidently conformed itself to the rocky bottom to which the sponge was adherent some fragments of which are still attached.
Its upper surface is uneven but smooth and without any spines or processes.
It is perforated by three or four small holes.
It measures 3ix3 inches in diameter and is from re to  inch thick.
The spicules of this region are mostly slender more or less curved pointed diacts of various sizes most of them being almost fibrelike.
They cross one another at various angles and are firmly united into a hard stony mass by a secondary deposit of silica which encrusts and cements them with the formation of numerous synaptacula Plate XX fig.
6.
Regular or modified hexacts are occasionally found wedged in interstices but the appearance is that the demalia and hypodermalia have been worn or decayed away from this region.
The sponge body or stalk rises from near the centre of the base to a height of 16 inches.
Its summit is frayed out and must have been originally at least an inch higher.
It is terete and tapers gently and regularly from the base which is H of an inch in diameter to the broken apex f of an inch in diameter.
A well developed gastral cavity extends through the sponge body from base to summit so that it is hollow throughout.
Toward the base the walls are thick and firm owing to secondary incrustations of silica while above they are much thinner and quite friable.
The lower 3 inches of the body have a texture and appearance similar to the base but the transition to the branched upper region is gradual.
A very few short blunt spines are borne on the sponge wall and these partake of the stony hardness and silicious incrustations which characterize the walls of this region.
Two longer spines having more of the character of the upper branches are present the first 1 inch and the second 1 inches above the base.
These are respectively I and 4 of an inch long.
The former is situated just above the first craterlike opening in the sponge walls.
This region of the sponge has a smooth hard surface and like the basal portion lacks the superficial layers of spicules.
At about 3 inches above the base loose flesh spicules become more plentiful and soon form a thick soft layer looking very much like a covering of a fine cotton wool paste or as if the specimen had been dipped into a thick soap lather which had been allowed to dry on its surface.
Coincident with this change in the character of the surface spinous processes become more numerous and very much longer but in this specimen the lower spines are imperfect.
While in the lower portion i of the sponge the processes remain comparatively simple and unbranched those which densely cover the upper half of the stalk are often very long the longest nearly 5 inches and r6 of an inch in diameter at the base much and complexly branched sometimes to the third order.
Wherever such branches cross they are united by secondary anastomoses due to the concresence of the parenchyma.
The principal branches vary in diameter from iV to h of an inch but two may fuse at their bases and form .a much larger mass.
The smaller may be unbranched and reach a length of two inches but are usually provided with a few small branches.
The larger are complexly branched the secondary branches usually forming angles of about 60 with the principal branches which latter arise from the central trunk at angles of 80'90.
While the base and lower part of the stalk are perforated by only a few small pores the upper part has numerous conspicuous oscula.
They perforate the sponge wall between the larger bundles of fibrous spicules the outer flesh layers rising i of an inch as 7 delicate craterlike rims scarcely thicker than a sheet of paper.
The oscula are usually elongated in the longitudinal direction of the sponge and in that case have a length of 5 to 6 mm. by a width of 2 to 3 millimeters.
In such the rim flares out somewhat at the sides and contracts at the ends so that its outer edge has a nearly circular outline.
Some few of the oscula are circular at their gastral ends.
With regard to their distribution on the sponge walls the lowermost is situated 2 2 inches above the base and its rim is thickened like the neighboring sponge walls.
Most of them evidently stand in some relation to the larger branches.
Three occur at precisely the level where the largest spine arises and two near each of most of the other large branches.
In many cases the oscula lie directly at the bases of the large branches their oraterlike rims being continuous on one side most often above with the substance of the branch.
Looking through the oscula on to the gastral surface this is seen to be formed of a fibrous network of spicules without the woolly surface covering of loose spicules.
The specimen is a macerated one  as I was unable to dissect or section it the arrangement of the chambers and the exact arrangement of the spicules could not be determined.
The bulk of the skeleton of the sponge wall is however chiefly composed of bundles of long fibre like diacts of various sizes and characters.
These are disposed in bundles which run longitudinally through the sponge body but divide and reunite in such a way as to form a network in the meshes of which the oscula open and which raise more or less evident ridges on both gastral and dermal surfaces.
In the upper part of the sponge these diacts remain free but below they are cemented together as above described.
They exist in great variety but the majority have the form represented in Plate XX fig.
1 in which the transverse rays are reduced to minute nodules in others they are much more evident or may be entirely wanting.
Some of this type are straight but most are more or less curved those surrounding the oscula being often semicircular.
The ends may be simply pointed or variously enlarged and either smooth or roughened with minute spines as shown by a few examples in Plate XX figs.
2 3 4 and 5.
The dermalia consist of sword shaped hexacts which are so numerous as to suggest the specific name of the species.
Like the diacts these differ much in the relative development of the several limbs any of which may be straight or more or less curved or even sharply bent.
Fig.
9 shows the most typical proportions but the handle may be scarcely longer than the blade or not more than  as long.
The cross pieces may be straight or curved or sharply bent upward Plate XX fig.
12.
The handle differs most being slender and pointed clubshaped or knobbed and usually sculptured throughout or at the tip only.
The points of the other rays are also usually spinose.
The sword handles support the skin and are not furnished with floricomes at their distal ends  instead they are surrounded by bundles of minute acicular diacts Plate XX fig.
7.
The hypodermalia are regular hexasts oxyhexasters which have the principal rays prolonged Plate XX fig.
8 rosettes wdiich vary in the length of the principal rays as shown by two examples in Plate XX figs.
14 and 15 and discohexasters of great beauty and symmetry of form.
One of the simplest of the latter is shown in Plate XX fig.
16.
This has the principal rays well developed while each group of terminal rays has sixteen members the pinhead shaped disks having again 16 marginal teeth.
Other discohexasters have the number of terminal rays much greater or the principal rays shortened so that all appear to arise from a central sphere.
The gastralia are also swordshaped hexacts without bundles of accessory acicular spicules.
This sponge would appear to be the type of a new subfamily of Euplectellida.
Description of Plates.
Plate XIX.
Hyalodendron navalium n. s. The type specimen as it appeared when first taken from a drawing by a Japanese artist x f.
Plate XX.
Illustrating some of the forms of the spicules of Hyalodendron navalium.
Fig.
1.
One of the smaller simple diacts of the kind which make up the interior skeleton of the spines and processes and which run in bundles through the sponge walls x 56.
1 a middle region of the same showing a slight enlargement and the axial fibre with the two reduced transverse axes.
x250.
Fig.
2.
A short thick diact with transverse limbs entirely suppressed with slightly enlarged rounded ends and axial fibre almost gone x 56.
Fig.
3.
A small slender and straight diact with transverse limbs indicated as rounded nodules with ends pointed and roughened and axial fibres complete x 56.
3 a one of the ends of the same x 250.
Fig.
4.
A small slender curved oxydiact with transverse limbs distinctly indicated as four nodules x 56.
3 a middle region of the same x 250.
3 b one of the ends of the same x 250.
Fig.
5.
A peculiarly modified end of a large diact showing a zigzag course of the axial fibre x 56.
Fig.
6.
A portion of the sponge base showing the secondary union of spicules by the formation of encrusting and cementing deposits and numerous synaptacula.
At a the encrusting layers are represented as broken away exhibiting the original diact.
x 56.
Fig.
7.
A group from one of the bundles of minute acicular diacts found in the superficial parenchyma about the handles of the swordshaped hexacts.
x 56.
Fig.
8.
An oxyhexaster in which the axial rays are continued beyond the place of branching x 500 Fig.
9.
One of the usual type of swordshaped hexact.
x 56.
9 a b c are respectively enlarged views of the handle tip of one of the cross pieces and the point x 250.
Figs.
10 11 and 12.
Three of the swordshaped spicules x 56.
10 is short and regular 11 has the blade bent and the cross rays rough uneven and thickened  12 is straight with the cross pieces bent sharply upward toward the handle.
Fig.
13.
A small spiny regular oxyhexact.
x 56.
13 a one of the rays enlarged x 250.
Fig.
14.
A rosette in which the axial rays are continued beyond the disk and the number of terminal rays is small and confined to the margin of the disk x 250.
Fig.
15.
A rosette with roughened axial or stem rays terminated by disks bearing a close brush of fine terminal rays x 340.
Fig.
16.
One of the simpler discohexasters with distinct stem rays and sixteen terminal rays in each group.
The disks or pinheads have usually sixteen marginal teeth each.
x250.
