Notes ON THE ARCTIC REDBACKED MICE.
BY GEKRIT S. MILLER JR.  We challenge the proof that Mus rutilus is not a circumpolar species.
The view thus forcibly expressed by Dr. Elliott Coues twentyone years ago 1 fairly represents current opinion in regard to the Arctic Redbacked Mice at least so far as concerns those of Alaska and the Old World.
From time to time during this period Evotomysufocanus has been recognized as a distinct form  but Evotomysutilus is universally regarded as an exceptionally homogeneous and wideranging circumpolar species.
Writing of the Redbacked Mice in 1897 Mr. Vernon Bailey says   The only circumpolar species of Evotomyss the Arctic E. rutiluswhich does not undergo any considerable change throughout the circumference of the Arctic zone.
2 A recent examination of the Arctic redbacked mice in the United States National Museum convinces me that the Evotomysutilus of authors is far from the unvarying species that it has been represented.
While the material at hand is too limited to form the basis of anything like a final revision it clearly proves the distinctness of Evotomysufocanus and also the existence of three forms of socalled rutilus one in the extreme north of Europe one in Kamtschatka and one in Alaska.
The Mus rutilus of Pallas came from Siberia immediately east of the Obi.
As no specimens from this region are available for comparison the question of the exact identity of the species must for the time being remain open.
Geographical considerations lead me to apply the name rutihis provisionally to the most westerly of the Old World forms rather than to the one occurring in Kamtschatka.
The latter is the Arvicola wosnessenskii of Polyakoff.
Its identity with Richardson's Arvicola rubricatus from Bering Strait is too uncertain to be worthy of serious consideration at present.
The latter is described as slate color on the back and nearlv scarlet on the sides  a color pattern quite unknown in the genus Evotomys
1 Monogr.
N. Am.
Eodentia p. 138.
2 Proc.
Biolog.
Soc.
Washington XI p. 113.
Even if it be assumed as Baird has suggested 3 that the colors of the back aud sides were accidentally transposed in Richardson's description the case is not much helped since no known member of the rutilus group has slate colored sides.
Although Baird assumed that Richardson's animal came from Siberia the statement in the original description that it  appears to be quite distinct from any American meadow mouse hitherto described leads to the belief that the type locality was on the Alaskan side of the strait.
The objections to applying the name to the Alaskan animal are however no less than in the case of the Kamtschatkan species.
The general characters of Evotomysufocanus and of the three species hitherto confused under the name rutilus are given in the following synopsis  Teeth large and heavy as in Microtus never perfectly rooted 
 molar rows about 6.5 mm.
 posterior lower molar long somewhat encapsulated  skull with prominent postorbital processes  sides clear gray highly aberrant E. rufocanus
Teeth small and weak perfectly rooted in adult  molar rows about 5 mm.
 posterior lower molar short not encapsulated  skull without prominent postorbital processes sides strongly fulvous typical Evotomys
Skull narrow  rostral protuberances standing out conspicuously from root of zygoma fig.
1 a  audital bulla
small  feet slender E. wosnessenskii
Skull broad  rostral protuberances not standing out conspicuously from root of zygoma fig.
1 b  audital bulla
large  feet broad.
Nasal bones short contained 3 times in greatest length of skull  tail 3440 mm.
 color generally chestnut E. rutilus
Nasal bones long contained only 3 times in greatest length of skull  tail 2030 mm.
 color generally dull ferruginous E. alascensis.
Evotomysufocanus Sundevall.
1846.
Arvicola rufocanus Sundevall Oefv.
Vet.
Akad.
Foerh. p. 122.
1897.
Evotomysufocanus Bailev Proc.
Biolog.
Soc.
Washington XI p. 122 May 13 1897.
Skull.
 The only skull of Evotomysufocanus that I have at hand is badly damaged.
Nevertheless it shows strong characters to diss Mam.
N.
Am. p. 551. tinguish it from that of E. rutilusor in fact from any other known member of the genus.
The anterior edge of the squamosal is produced to form a very distinct postorbital process quite as in many species of Microtus.
The mandible is massively built and like the skull shows a degree of angularity more in keeping with Microtus than Evotomys
The palate although damaged appears to be that of typical Evotomys
Mr. Bailey says of this species   Evotomysufoeanus Sundevall of northern Europe is remarkable for its large molars and almost microtine form of skull.
He gives the following measurements of a skull from Lapland  basal length 25 mm.
 nasals 7.6 zygomatic breadth 15  mastoid breadth 12.2 alveolar length of upper molar series 6.7.
Teeth.
 The teeth of Evotomysufoeanus are chiefly remarkable for their large size and great strength.
Their development relatively to the size of the skull is more in accord with the proportions normal in Microtus than in Evotomys
Apparently the molars do not develop as complete roots as in other species of Evotomys
The root of the lower incisor is nearly as long as in some species of Microtus and the long back lower molar is encapsulated though not conspicuously so.
The enamel pattern fig.
2 d differs widely from that of Evotomysutilus fig.
2 a.
Its most striking peculiarities are the simplicity of the posterior upper molar and the shallow reentrant angles on the outer side of the posterior lower molar.
Color.
 A specimen in fresh autumnal pelage has a well defined dorsal stripe of a color intermediate between the hazel aud cinnamon rufous of Ridgway.
This stripe begins between the eyes and extends back nearly to base of tail.
Ears colored like dorsal stripe.
Sides an indescribable grizzle of hair brown whitish black and slate color.
Whole under parts soiled bufiywhite darkened by the slaty bases of the hairs which show through irregularly on the surface.
Cheeks muzzle and sides of head similar to sides of body but slightly darker.
Tail sharply bicolor brownish above dirty white below.
Feet dirty whitish.
General remarks.
 Mr. Bailey has already called attention to the fact that Evotomysufoeanus  is the most divergent form of the genus known.
So divergent is the animal that it may well be questioned whether it is to be regarded as a true Evotomys
Its heavy and apparently imperfectly rooted teeth more closely resemble those of many species of typical Microhcs than they do the weak perfectly rooted teeth of true Evotomys
The relationships of the 1898.
361 root of the lower' incisor and the posterior lower molar while not typical of either genus are clearly suggestive of Microtus rather than Evotomys
The palate structure on the other hand appears to agree with that of Evotomys
The question of the animal's true position cannot be answered until good series of specimens representing different ages are available for comparison.
Evotomysosnessenskii Polyakoff.
1839.

Arvicola rubricaius Richardson Zoology of Beechey's Voyage of the Blossom p. 7 Bering Strait.
1881.
Arvicola wosnessenskii Polyakoff Appendix to Volume XXXIX of the Memoirs of the St. Petersburg Academy of Sciences p. 56 text in Russian Kamtschatka.
1884.
Arvicola wosnessenskii Lataste Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
di St. Nat di Genova.
XX p. 28.
Skull.
 The skull of Evotomysvosiese7iskii as compared with that of E. rutilusand E. alascensis is slightly narrower and more depressed though the differences in general form are not very striking.
The anterior edges of the antorbital foramina are folded outward so as to form conspicuous swellings which for want of a better name I have called rostral protuberances.
These protuberances are apparently formed by the wall of a canal which takes a superficial downward course from the anterior edge of the antorbital foramen and probably transmits a branch of the fifth nerve.
In Evotomysosnessenskii the rostral protuberances stand further forward from the bases of the zygomata than in E. alascensis fig.
1.
This position as well as their large size makes them very conspicuous.
Audital bulla
small much smaller than in E. rutilusor E. alascensis their greatest breadth about equal to alveolar length of maxillary tooth row.
Mandible slender and lightly built with weaker articular process and angular process than in the related species.
Measurements of an adult skull from Bering Island  greatest length 24 mm.
 basal length 22.8 basilar length 21  zygomatic breadth 13.6  mastoid breadth 11 interorbital constriction 4  nasals 7.8  incisive foramen 5 6  diastema 7.4  maxillary molar series alveoli 5  mandible 13.8  mandibular molar series alveoli 5.
Fig.
1.
Rostrum of Evotomysosnessenskii upper figure and E. alascensis lower figure x 3f .
24 Teeth.
 The teeth of Evotomysosnessenskii fig.
2 b present no characters of special importance.
Ears.
 The ears are slightly smaller than in E. alascensis but not peculiar in form.
Feet.
 The hind feet are slender and much less densely furred than in E. alascensis.
The latter character at first sight appears to be due to season as most of the National Museum specimens of E. wosnessenskiiwere taken in summer while the Alaskan series is chiefly composed of October skins.
Several of the Kamtschatkan specimens were however taken during the last week in September and one as late as October 8th.
In none of these does the hairiness of the hind foot closely approach the condition found in Alaskan specimens taken from three weeks to a month later.
Tail.
 The tail is more slender than in E. alascensis and less densely haired than in either E. alascensis or E. rutilus
The difference is fully apparent on comparison of specimens in winter pelage.
Color.
 Autumnal specimens have the dorsal stripe a clear deep tawny fiuely and inconspicuously sprinkled with black.
Sides ochraceous buff.
Belly dull whitish faintly darkened by the slaty bases of the hairs.
Summer adults are essentially similar but immature specimens are much darker and duller.
Measurements.
 For measurements of Evotomysosnessenskii see table page 366.
Specimens examined.
 Total number of specimens examined 26 from the following localities  Kamtschatka Bering Island 17 Kalakhtyrka 1  Petropaulski 6  no definite locality 2.
General remarks.
 Evotomysvosnessenskii is more distinct from E. rutilusand E. alascensis than either of these is from the other.
Aside from its cranial characters it is easily distinguishable from its allies by its slender thinly haired tail and feet.
Evotomysutilus Pallas.
1778.
Mus rutilus Pallas Nov.
Sp. Quadr.
Glir.
Ord.p.
246 Siberia east of the Obi.
1874.
Evotomysutilus Coues Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philadelphia p. 187 part.
Skull.
 In the north European Evotomyso which I have provisionally restricted the name rutilus the skull closely resembles that of E. alascensis except that the rostral protuberances are placed further forward as in E. wosnessenskiiand the nasal bones are shorter relatively to the length of the skull.
In E. alascensis the nasal bones form about 33.3 percent of the occipitonasal length while in E. rutilusthey form about 28.5 percent only.
The difference is due to the less backward extent of the nasals in E. rutilusrather than to any actual shortening of the rostrum.
Audital bulla
large and rounded as in E. alascensis very different from those of E. ivosnessenskii.
Measurements of an adult skull from Lapland  greatest length 24 mm.
 basal length 22.4  basilar length 20.6  zygomatic breadth 13 mastoid breadth 11.8  interorbital constriction 4  nasals 7 incisive foramen 5  diastema 7.4  maxillary molar series alveoli 5  mandible 13.8  mandibular molar series alveoli 5.
Teeth.
 The teeth of Evotomysutilus fig.
2 a do not differ appreciably from those of E. ivosnessenskii and E. alascensis.
Ears feet and tail.
 So far as can be judged from dry skins the ears of Evotomysutilus do not differ appreciably in form from those of E. alascensis and E. ivosnessenskii.
They are however apparently a trifle larger than in the latter.
Feet broad as in the Alaskan form.
Tail about as in E. alascensis but considerably longer and somewhat less densely haired.
Color.
 An adult male from northern Sweden taken in December and another specimen from same region but without date agree very closely in color.
Both have the dorsal stripe a clear bright chestnut faintly darkened by a slight admixture of blacktipped hairs.
The sides are ochraceousbuff and the belly dirty white or cream color.
Feet whitish  ears chestnut.
Tail sharply bicolor brownish tinged with red above dirty white below.
Fur everywhere slaty plumbeous at base this color appearing irregularly at surface on belly and sides.
Two other undated skins from Lapland are slightly paler in color.
Measurements.
 For measurements of Evotomysutilus see table page 366.
Specimens examined.
 Four from the following localities  Lapland  no definite locality 2.
Sweden  Karesnaudo 1  no definite locality northern Sweden 1.
General remarks.
 The Arctic redbacked mouse of northern Europe is readily distinguishable among the known Arctic forms 4 There are no less than five of these E. rutilusE. wosnessensldi E. alascensis E. ungava and E. proteus.
For descriptions of the last two both of which are from Labrador see Bailey Proc.
Biolog.
Soc.
Washington XI pp.
130 131 and 137 May 13 1897. by its bright color absence of any known dusky phase relatively long tail and small square skull with large audital bulla conspicuous rostral protuberances and short nasal bones.
Evotomyslascensis sp.
nov. 1S39.

Arvicola rubricatus Richardson Zoology of Beechey's Voyage of the Blossom p. 7 Bering Strait.
1877.
Evotomysutilus Coues Monogr.
N. Am.
Rodentia p. 136 part.
1897.
Evotomysutilus Bailey Proc Biolog.
Soc Washington XI p. 118 part.
Type.
 Adult S  number l United States National Museum collected at St. Michael's Alaska October 26 1897 by E. W. Nelson.
Original number 96.
General characters.
 See synopsis page 359.
Skull.
 The skull of Evotomyslascensis more closely resembles that of E. rutilusthan it does that of its geographically nearer ally E. wosnessenskii
The brain case is broad and squarish in outline.
Squamosals produced into very small pointed postorbital processes.
Audital bullae large their greatest breadth considerably more than alveolar length of maxillary molar series.
Rostral protuberances fig.
1 b much closer to roots of zygomata than in either of the Old World species.
The nasal bones fig.
1 are longer than in either E. rutilusor E. wosnessenskii
This difference is not due to greater length of rostrum but to greater backward prolongation of the nasal bones.
The nasal branches of the premaxillaries also extend further back than in either of the Old World forms.
The skull of the type specimen measures  greatest length 25 mm  basal length 22.6 basilar length 21.8  zygomatic breadth 13.4  mastoid breadth 11.6  interorbital constriction 4.6  nasals 8  incisive foramen 5  diastema 7  maxillary molar series alveoli 5.2  mandible 14  mandibular molar series alveoli 5.
Teeth.
 The enamel pattern fig.
2 c is essentially as in Old World Arctic species.
Ears.
 The ears do not differ in form from those of E. rutilusand E. wosnessenskiibut they are appreciably larger than in the latter.
Feet.
 The front feet present no characters of importance.
The hind feet like those of E. rutilusare short broad and very densely haired both above on the sides and below.
On the sole the hair extends from the heel to the middle row of tubercles.
Color.
 In the type the dorsal stripe is dull ferruginous sprinkled with black hairs which however are very inconspicuous.
Sides 1898.
365 ochraceousbuff finely ' lined ' with black.
Belly clear buff shading to grayish on the throat.
Feet buffywhitish  face mixed buffy and Fig.
2.
Enamel pattern of Evotomysutilus a E. wosnessenskiib E. alascensis c and E. rufocaius.
Lower teeth below upper teeth above.
xlO.
reddish.
Ears con color with dorsal stripe.
Tail sharply bicolor buffy below brownish tinged with red above.
A series of seventeen skins taken at St. Michaels Alaska during October and November show little variation in color.
In some specimens there is less of the buff wash on the belly but this is absent in one only.
Several are much darker below than the type.
In one immature individual the red of the dorsal stripe is much duller than in the adults.
Measurements.
 For measurements see accompanying table.
366 1898.
03 a o H O l fa o M H O   fa o fa o fa fa as fa fa fa W H fa O GQ H fa a  fa fa CO 5 fa a STijcara raojj jb J9qranj a  i i .
i i 1 2 i i i I i I a ooj pnn a3aqaj8AiBx GNC0e0CCCCNCNCCNCCCOCCOlC'lCSNCIClCNe0 iCpoqpirepB8H 388 1 1 SSS j    3 1 1 1 1 1 IS qiSnaj ibox H1C1CKW 1 1 INI 1 IOI 1 1 1 1 IO sjisss liissllislliiiis xag 0obO  0boOl 1  1 B D'  D't'  D'  D'to'fe' S  M  N N j.
C Q O  C C 1 IO i IO IO iC ' H o a 03 ee 03 03 s o3 cj M   4MXtA CS S rrt .
1 cS rt .a .a     S.3 03 cj GT r r1   a a a aaa a eS o3 03 03 03 03 OS M   fafa  fafa 03 fa 'B'Sfl'S'S'S'S'S  a en ce en co en 'en  rjaQ to  to tfl co tc m w 3 ri a       Fh ' S h ' Vi l4 3 3 i
fe pq ffl pq   pq M m   g   cT as en  go nT as li KJ   rt 7Z n T.
T3 5 . J J3 .5 . .3 d         o   i  8 i JlJ t  000 'o t     'o        i o t t to S .
 9  . . .
 . . jssa'4i'iituiV to'ji'C o o o o 0 U fc   Q  Q  kjkjkjkjkjtiqtiqtjqctjqk Specimens examined.
 Total number of specimens examined 21 from the following localities  Alaska Fort Yukon 2  St. Michsels 19.
General remarks.
 Evotomyslascensis appears to be more closely related to the European E. rutilusthan to the Kamtschatkan E. wosnessenskiior to any of the American species.
It has the broad skull large audital bulla
and broad feet of E. rutilusbut differs from both European and Kamtschatkan species in its long nasal bones and in the position of the rostral protuberances.
I am permitted by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution to published this paper here.
368 1898.
