CONTRIBUTIONS TO A KNOWLEDGE OF THE Hymenoptera OF BRAZIL No.
7EUMENID GENERA Zethus
Labus
Zethoides Eumenes Montezumia AND Nortonia
BY WILLIAM J.
FOX.
The present paper the seventh of the series dealing with Mr H. H. Smith's collections relates to the solitary Ava.sps and is presented in incomplete form in consequence of the want of available time for entomological work on the part of the writer.
These pages were written almost a year ago and laid by with the hope of soon working out the material of the genus Odynerus thereby completing the Eumenidse of the collection which hope however has not been realized beyond the drawing up of several descriptions of new species Avhich will be included in a separate paper on that genus.
A. Pedicel of second segment shorter than width of first segment at apex a. Postscutellum entire.
Zethus caeruleopennis Fabr.
Chapada Febi'uary March December Santarem.
Seven  five f specimens.
Zethus recurvirostris DeG.
A large series of both sexes.
Chapada January March December.
The color of petiole and legs varies from entiiely red to black.
The swelling of the petiole is much greater in some specimens than in others.
Zethus gigas Spin.
Chapada February March.
Twentyfive 9 three cf specimens.
There is a remarkably abnormal specimen of this species in the collection.
It is a d and has the petiole produced into two long acute spines on the ventral surface laterally that on the right side placed some distance in advance of the other The occiput is emarginate medially and that portion of the front filling the emargination of eye is pushed out distorting the eye so that when viewed from the side it appears to be sharply angulate or subdeutate on its inner margin Zethus prominens n. sp.
Black shining middle segment petiole base of second segment legs clypeus except base mandibles and scape beneath red  apex of petiole with a yellow line on each side extending a little along sides wings viol aceovis.
.
 Clypeus about onethird broader than long obtusely angular at sides with shallow punctures fore margin broadly incurved obtusely dentate medially mandibles long equalling the width of clypeus in length front and vertex with tolerably strong but not deep scattered punctures becoming obsolete on cheeks posteriorly  space between hind ocelli slightly less than that between them and eyes first joint of flagellum fully as long as two following united pronotum with a strong tooth on each side and sharply margined anteriorly dorsulum sparsely punctured with an impressed line anteriorly in the middle on each side of which are two feebler curved impressions and posteriorly in the middle are two parallel strong impressions with a feebler longer one on each side scutellum flat scarcely impressed  postscutellum subconvex entire middle segment concave medially the lateral surface separated from the upper and posterior by a sharp ridge running from base to apex  enlarged portion of petiole with sparse punctures broadest and rounder at base the sides gradually converging to apex not rounded the slender basal portion not as long as hind coxse second segment with a short thick pedicel whose length does not equal the width of petiole at apex microscopically punctured above the ventral moiety with large punctures very sparse toward base dorsals 36 rather compactly punctured ventrals 36 with strong separated punctures  second submarginal Avith a distinct radial side Avhich is however a little less than the distance between the recurrent nervures on the cubital nervure.
Length 2829 mm.
Chapada March April.
Four specimens.
In coloration this species resembles recurvirostris but it is quite distinct.
The straight not rounded or convex  sides of petiole and sharp lateral carina of middle segment are salient features of this insect.
Zethus striatifrons n. sp.
Black clypeus auteriorly aud at sides mandibles medially greater part of scape outer margin of tegulre and legs except coxre red petiole with a narrow yellow line at apex extending a little along sides  wings violaceous.
9.
 Clypeus nearly twice as broad as long strongly augulate laterally striatojDunctate the fore margin subemarginate  mandibles short broad their width equalling half their length with coarse elongate punctures front striated the vertex with separated punctures  space between hind ocelli distinctly less than that between them and eyes first joint of flagellum fully as long as next two joints united the length of scape about equalling the pedicel and first four joints of flagellum  pronotum margined auteriorly but not dentate strongly punctured dorsulum strongly punctured sparsely so posteriorly with a strong impression anteriorly in middle and two rather parallel less strong ones posteriorly scutellum rather flat not or slightly impressed postscutellum entire middle segment Avith rather dense pale pubescence strongly impressed or subconcave in middle with transverse coarse striations extending a little on sides but not evident at base laterally the extreme base in addition has some coarse punctures and there is a sharp ridge not extending to apex separating the sides from the rest of segment swollen portion of petiole ovate about twice as long as broad with large sparse punctures basal cylindrical portion about as long as hind coxje transversely ridged at base above second segment with a short thick pedicel dorsally with shallow punctures sparse at base and in addition a fine microscopic punctuation ventrally with coarse irregular punctures remaining dorsals closely punctured the ventrals more strongly second submarginal cell with a radial side not equal to more than onethird of the distance between the recurrent nervures on the cubital uervure third submarginal fully onethird broader above than beneath the outer nervure almost straight.
Length 2223 mm.
d.
 Clypeus longer uot angulate laterally with shallow punctures the fore margin with a strong tooth on each side front finely rugosograuulate a slender raised line running down from the anterior ocellus  scape dilated apically antennae terminating in a hook not coiled impiessious of dorsulum less distinct the dorsulum distinctly impressed ventral abdominal segments without appendages.
Length 1921 mm.
Chapada March October December.
Seven  two d specimens.
Striatifrons comes closer to chalybeus than to ccendeopennis and recurvirostris both of which have the clypeus rounded at sides and their c
abdomen is provided with leaflike appendages beneath.
Zethus chalybeus Sauss.
Chapada April Santarem.
Four 
specimens.
Zethus sessilis n. sp.
Black abdomen with a grayish pile mandibles medially spot on tegulte legs more or less and sides of petiole dark reddish or reddish brown wings fuscous as far as stigma darkest in costal cell otherwise clear.
9.
 Head with strong even punctures not close the front with some rugae in addition clypeus longitudinally rugose or rugosopunctate subrounded at sides about onethird broader than long truncate anteriorly and with two widely separated teeth  space between hind ocelli equal to more than half that between them and eyes scape shining in length equal to the pedicel and following four joints united pronotum very sharply and highly margined or crested but scarcely dentate dorsulum coarsely punctured with an impressed line anteriorly in middle and four feebler ones posteriorly the two medial impressions strongest and farther apart than they are from the exterior ones scutellum subconvex impressed  postscutellum entire  middle segment rugose except medially Avhere it is concave or broadly depressed and like the sides finely punctured a faint trace of a carina between the upper surface aud sides  swollen portion of petiole short campanulate with dense shallow punctures the basal stem longer than hind coxoe second segment practically sessile with first the pedicel being exceeding short  dorsal surface of abdomen with a fine dense punctuation that on ventral surface quite as fine but not so dense.
Length 1314 ram.
cJ.
 Head not or scarcely striated as in  coarsely punctured clypeal teeth stronger space between hind ocelli less apical antennal joint exceedingly minute not one third the size of the preceding one and so placed as to form a small hook.
Length 1314 mm.
Chapada February March.
Fifteen  five cf specimeus.
The almost sessile second segment and minute apical anteunal joint of male readily distinguish this species.
The male clypeus is sometimes marked anteriorly with yellow.
Zethus fraternus Sauss.
Chapada February to April December Pedra Branca and Corumba April Santarem.
Twentythree  six c
 specimens.
The yellow dots above iusertiou of antennae are frequently entirely absent.
Zethus rufipes n. sp.
Black mandibles medially anterior margin of clypeus base of autennse spot on scape at apex beneath and legs except coxte ferruginous a dot on front behind each antennte and line at apex of petiole not extending on sides yellow wings dark violaceous throughout.
cf.
 Head with strong but not deep punctures closest and smallest on front a faiut carina connects the bases of the antcunre clypeus with separated punctures about onethird longer than broad its fore margiu truncate and armed with two widely separated teeth space between hind ocelli equal to about twothirds the distance between them and eyes antennre rather long the scape not much longer than the pedicel and following two joints imited first joint of flagellum distinctly longer than joints two and three united ultimate joint as long as or longer than the two preceding the tip of antenna not curled but hooked  prouotum sharply margined anteriorly not dentate laterally strongly punctured  dorsulum similarly punctured with a smooth slightly raised line anteriorly in the middle and posteriorly with two strongly impressed lines which diverge anteriorly  scutellum impressed postscutellum entire middle segment rugosopunctate except the nearly smooth sides and two areas on upper surface laterally broadly and deeply sulcate down middle the upper surface separated from the sides by an indistinct carina stem of petiole about as long as first hind tarsal joint stout the swollen portion elongateovate with large widely separated punctures pedicel of second short its length not equal to width of apex of petiole the body of the segment gradually dilated very much as in fraternus with sparse shallow punctures above and an oblique linear impression on each side near base remaining dorsals more strongly punctured the second ventral Avitli coarse irregular punctures wings dark violaceous second submarginal triangular with a ver' small radial side the first and second transversocubital veins nearly uniting above third submarginal broadest above the outer nervure gently bowed.
Length 1314 mm.
Chapada January and March.
Z. rufyes is very similar to Z. fraternns in general apjearance but is quite distinct.
Zethus cristatus n. sp.
Black thorax and abdomen Avith thin silky pile a dot behind the base of each antenna a linear spot on each side of pronotum anteriorly dot on tegulse anteriorly line on postscutellum interrupted medially spot at tip of fore femora one at base of four anterior fibise and a fascia at apex of abdominal segments 15 that on segment 1 extending a short distance along sides yellow  Avings subhyaline fuscous along costa nervures black.
.
 Head with strong deep punctures running into striae on front and becoming sparse on cheeks which are shining clypeus fully twice as broad as long coarsely striato punctate angulate at sides the fore margin slightly incurved with two strong widely separated teeth antennae with flagellum short clavate its first joint much shorter than the following two united the scape fully as long as the combined length of pedicel and following four joints space between hind ocelli equal to a little more than half of that between them and eyes pronotum strongly cristate slightly dentate laterally deeply punctured  dorsulum coarsely punctured confluently so anteriorly more sparsely posteriorly strongly impressed anteriorly in the middle and with two impressions nearly parallel posteriorly  scutellum impressed  middle segment impressed concave the convex portions rugosostriate the rugse extending a little on the sides which are nearly smooth and are separated from the upper surface by a carina basal stem of petiole about as long as hind coxae and trochanters the swollen portion elongateovate but not much narrowed posteriorly with scattered shallow punctures  second segment Avith pedicel short and thick shorter than the Avidth of apex of petiole finely and Aery closely punctured except a few shalloAV punctures along the apical margin the ventral surface Avith the punctures larger and less close but not strong remainiDg segments very finely punctured second submarginal cell with a radial side about equal to half the distance between the recurrent veins on the cubital vein third subniarginal rhomboidal the outer nervure nearly straight.
Length 15 mm.
Chapada April.
One specimen.
The coloration of wings is similar to Z. fraternus.
The short flagelhim and wide laterally angulate clypeus cristate pronotum and markings distinguish Z. crmatus.
aa.
Postscutellum carinated dentate or emarginate.
Zethus imperfectus n. sp.
Black with thin silky pile most evident on thorax on sides and beneath and second segment lateral margins of clypeus hne on inner margin of mandibles spot in each eye emargination and at bases of antennae spot on cheeks above line on pronotum anteriorly dot on tegulse at base and apex line on postscutellum stripe on fore femora behind and on all the tibise and apical margins of all segments including the sixth dorsal yellow that at apex of petiole continued a short distance along sides  flagellum beneath reddish yellow except basally wings subhyaline slightly brownish in costal cell.

.
 Head with deep separated punctures sparse on cheeks  clypeus rounded at sides its length equal to considerably more than half its width closely and finely punctured and in addition with some larger shallow sparse punctures its fore margin subemarginate indistinctly dentate at each side an indistinct Tshaped carina between antennal bases flagellum short clavate the scape slender cylindrical scarcely dilated apicaliy in length not quite equal to pedicel and following four joints united space between hind ocelli equal to nearly twothirds of that between them and eyes  pronotum cristate not dentate Avith very coarse punctures  dorsulum with the punctures more separated anteriorly with a shallow impressed line medially the usual posterior impressed lines or furrows entirely wanting  scutellum scarcely impressed with shallower punctures postscutellum very indistinctly dentate laterally middle segment concave medially sulcate the concavity smooth that portion between the concavity and sides rugose bounded externally by a carina sides finely punctured subcarinate obliquely in middle  basal stem of petiole stout about as long as joints 24 of hind tarsi the swollen portion elongate cylindrical narrowed posteriorly strongly punctured its anterior and upper surface forming a distinct angle at their junction  pedicel of second segment rather slender its length not equalling the width of apex of petiole the dorsal and ventral moieties closely and finely punctured except along apical margins second submarginal with a distinct radial side which equals the distance between the first transversocubital and first recurrent nervures on the cubital nervure third submarginal enlarged above the outer nervure a little sinuous.
Length 12 mm.
Santarem.
One specimen.
Resembles Z. cristatus but the clypeus is differently shaped etc.
Zethus cylindricus n. sp.
Black abdomen with sericeous pile three spots on clypeus one at each side and anteriorly line on mandibles dot behind base of each antenna scape beneath dot in eye emarginatlon and at top of cheeks line on pronotum anteriorly dot at base and apex of tegulse line on postscutellum interrupted medially two lines on middle segment and apical margin of all abdominal segments including sixth dorsal yellow wings subhyaline slightly discolored in costal cell.
9.
 Head with coarse deep close punctures the cheeks less punctured but not shining clypeus at base medially Avith a short carina extending up between bases of antennse barely onethird broader than long rounded at sides truncate anteriorly antennae with flagellum strongly clavate the first joint much shorter than the two following united the scape not quite as long as pedicel and following four joints united space between hind ocelli greater than that between them and eyes pronotum cristate anteriorly subdentate laterally with coarse separated punctures dorsulum with confiueut punctures forming longitudinal ruga wdth a raised line anteriorly in the middle and two longitudinal impressions posteriorly scutellum punctured like dorsulum scarcely impressed postscutellum slightly prominent at sides but not dentate middle segment concave and sulcate medially transversely rugose the rugse slightly running over the ridge which separates the sides from upper surface sides nearly smooth apex furnished with two pale lamella
or teeth petiole elongate stem stout hardly as long as hind coxte and trochanters the enlarged portion cylindrical broadest basally its narrowest point is a little before the apex where it is contracted with deep separated punctures above at base those toward apex shallower and sparse ventral surface sharply carinated down middle second segment finelj and closely punctured except along apical margins' the pedicel quite short much shorter than the apex of petiole is wide radial side of second submarginal cell distinctly greater than the distance between the first transversocubital vein and first recurrent nervure on the cubital nervure third submarginal slightly broader above somewhat rhomboidal the outer nervure gently sinuous.
Length 1112 mm.
cf.
 Cljpeus about twice as broad as long entirely yellow obliquely truncate at sides subemarginate anteriorly antennae hooked at tip the last two joints minute the penultimate the longer third joint about ouetbird longer than second the tenth subspiuose beneath at apex middle segment with an additional carina on each side bounding the concavity.
Length 810 mm.
Chapada December Corurabti April.
Three 9 four J examples.
In the shape of petiole this species approaches Z. carinatus Smith but in that species it is not contracted before base and is rugosely punctured and sharply carinate above.
Zethus campanulatus n. sp.
Black legs brownish a medially interrupted yellow fascia at apex of petiole abdomen and thorax more or less with sericeous pile wings fuscous on basal twothirds especially in the costal cell otherwise subhyaline.
.
 Head above with even deep separated punctures running into longitudinal rugse on front and becoming sparser on cheeks which are shining no carina between bases of antennae clypeus fully three times broader than long angulate at sides coarsely rugosopunctate fore margin truncate with a tooth at each side and sometimes medially  flagellum short the first joint not as long as the two following united the scape fully as long as the pedicel and following four joints united  space between hind ocelli equal to a little more than half of that between them and eyes  pronotum subcristate sharply angular at sides with coarse confluent punctures dorsulum with larger separated punctures with an impressed line anteriorly in middle two impressed lines posteriorly scutellum with shallow punctures scarcely impressed postscutellum prominent or subcarinate laterally middle segment concave medially the concavity bounded outwardly by a more or less distinct carina the two convexities irregularly rugose separated from sides by a comparatively indistinct carina petiole short campanulate stem slender fully as long as hind coxse and trochanters the enlarged portion Avith large separated punctures second segment finely and closely punctured throughout the pedicel short and stout much shorter than apex of petiole is wide the body of the segment more suddenly dilated than in cijlindricus imperfedus radial side of second submarginal cell much less than the distance between the first transversocubital vein and the first recurrent vein on the cubital nervure third submarginal somewhat rhomboidal slightly larger above the outer nervure gently sinuous.
Length 1314 mm.
Var.
 Legs more or less dark ferruginous the base of first or second segments sometimes brownish.
c.
 Front and clypeus without rugse clypeus longer rounded at sides subemarginate between the lateral teeth  tipi of antenna hooked the last two joints of antennae quite small the penultimate the smaller as to length  middle segment supplied with two additional carinas wdiich border the concavity outwardly second segment with larger sparse shallow punctures.
Length 1 2 mm.
Chapada March.
Five  one cf specimens.
Zethus dubius Sm.
Corumba April.
In the two specimens which I refer to this species the postscutellum is tuberculate medially and there is a Tshaped carina between the insertion of antennre.
The c
antennae are hooked with the last joint as long as preceding two united.
Zethus hexagonus n. sp.
Black dot behind each antenna one at each side of postscutellum and a line a little continued along sides at apex of petiole yellow legs from tips of femora reddish brown which color sometimes extends obscurely to the coxre wings fuscous slightly coeruleous quite dark in the costal cell.
9.
 Head above with strong separated punctures on the front striateor rugosopunctate  clypeus forming a nearly exact hexagon coarsely striatopunctate the fore margin rather broadly and evenly truncate space between hind ocelli about equal to twothirds of that between them and eyes pronotum cristate obtuse at sides irregularly rugosopunctate dorsulum with rather shallow separated punctures with a feeble impressed line anteriorly in the middle and four impressed lines posteriorly the two inner ones strong and deep the outer ones shallow and indistinct scutellum more closely punctured impressed postscutellum subemarginate that is to say the lateral angles are quite prominent subdentate middle segment not broadly concave broadly furrowed rather densely pubescent with pale hairs the convexities rugose but not coarsely carina between sides and upper surface indistinct except toward base sides finely punctured stem of petiole rather long slender longer than hind coxse and trochanters the enlarged portion of segment a little more than twice as long as broad rounded at base with large punctures the sides rounded out second segment above finely and closely punctured at base the punctures becoming larger and shallow toward apex the ventral surface with tolerably large punctures sparsest medially and entirel wanting at base which is smooth and shining pedicel very short and stout at least onethird lroader than long radial side of second submarginal cell barely equalling half the distance between the first transversocubital and first recurrent nervures on the cubital nervure third submarginal cell widened almost onethird above the outer nervure nearly straight.
Length 1415 mm.
Chapada March and Octolier.
Three specimens.
The petiole compared with Z. fraternus has a long stem the enlarged portion short and broad.
Zethus bicolor n. sp.
Head antenuffi dorsulum scutellum anteriorly mesosternum and body of alidomen black otherwise the body red two dots on front pronotum anteriorly sometimes spots on tegulse rarely two dots on postscutellum and line at apex of petiole yellow wings fuseoviolaceous.
9.
 Head with strong separated punctures the front striatopunctate clypeus hexagonal broader than long striatopunctate the fore margin truncate with a slight tooth on each side space between hind ocelli equal to slightly more than half of that between them and eyes pronotum cristate obtuse at sides with coarse more or less confluent punctures dorsulum with separated punctures anteriorly with an impressed line medially and four impressed lines posteriorly the inner two of which are deep the others indistinct postscutellum prominent or subdentate at sides middle segment broadly furrowed the convexities rugose but not coarsely the carina between upper and lateral surface distinct petiole as in Z. hexagomis as are also the pedicel and sculpture of dorsal surface of second segment the punctures of the ventral surface of the latter segment present on the base first and second transversocubital veins uniting above third submarginal cell widened nearly onequarter above.
Length 1718 mm.
cf.
 Front closely striatopunctate anteunse hooked at apex the ultimate joint as long as the two preceding united the penultimate quite small flagellum short the first joint fully as long as the following two joints united clypeus about twice as broad as long the anterior teeth more distinct.
Length 13 mm.
Chapada March and February.
Eight 
and one d specimens.
Seems to resemble Z. rufinodus in coloration but judging from the figure of that species given by Saussure PI.
vi f. 3 Vespides iii the petiole is of an entirely different shape.
Zethus pallidus Sm.
Santarem.
One example.
This species has the postscutellum strongly bidentate almost bispinose and the dorsulum has two smooth raised lines the petiole campanulate.
The entire insect is rather densely covered with short brownish or yellowish hairs.
Zethus productus n. sp.
Rufous and black body of abdomen with brown pile clypeus mandibles antennre except scape beneath thorax except beneath legs and abdomen from and inclusive of apex of second segment rufous dot behind each antenna scape beneath and line at apex of petiole yellow otherwise the insect black  wings fuscoviolaceous.
.
 Head above and on cheeks rugosopunctate the front coarsely striatopunctate clypeus somewhat hexagonal broader than long obtuse at sides with large rather shallow punctures the fore margin broadly subtruncate indistinctly or subdentate laterally a Tshaped carina between the bases of antennae first joint of flagellum about as long as the following two united the scape not longer than pedicel and following three joints united space between hind ocelli greater than that between them and eyes pronotum cristate acute and produced at sides with coarse confluent punctures dorsulum rugosopunctate with a shallow impressed line anteriorly in middle the usual posterior impressed lines absent scutellum not impressed postscutellum broadly emarginate dentate at sides two short indistinct carinae originate near sides of postscutellum and extend down on middle segment the latter broadly furrowed or depressed down middle the two convexities obliquely striated the strise overrunning the sharp lateral carina a short distance upon the sides which are otherwise quite smooth petiole with stem long nearly as long as first hind tarsal joint stout the enlarged portion ovate broadest at apex gradually and evenly enlarged from its junction with the stem to somewhat behind its middle whence it is gradually and slightly narrowed to apex the punctures strongest at sides and down the middle there is a distinct but not sharp carina which while not continuous is found also on the stem  second segment finely and closely puDctured above much more strongly so beneath the pedicel very short and thick radial side of second submarginal cell about equal to the distance between the first transversocubital and the first recurrent nervures on the cubital nervure  third submarginal Avidest above the outer nervure nearly straight.
Length 1617 mm.
d.
 Colored like 9 except that the red is more widely diffused over the abdomen and the mandibles are yellowish flagellum stout hooked at tip the ultimate joint thick obtuse at tip longer than the penultimate which is minute and together with the eleventh joint is nearly twice as long as the ultimate middle segment rugose the carinae originating near each side of postscutellum quite strong stem of petiole shorter and thicker carina obscure the enlarged portion more robust and coarsely punctured.
Length 14 mm Chapada January March April December.
Fifteen 
 one d specimens.
The strongly 'produced pronotal angles rugosity of head and carinated petiole are peculiarities of this S3ecies.
Zethus thoracicus n. sp.
Black head except front and a line across vertex pronotum entirely tegultie two spots on scutellum and postscutellum two liues on middle segment spot beneath wings anterior legs almost entirely medial legs in front line at apex of petiole interrupted medially narrow line before apex of second and third dorsals and of second ventral yellow antennse fulvous darkest above the fore femora in front and a spot on tegulee reddish medial legs dark brownish behind wings dark subhyaline darkest along costal margin.
9.
 Head finely and closely punctured above the front striatopunctate but not coarsely cheeks impunctate clypeus rather finely striatopunctate barely onethird broader than long somewhat hexagonal with the side lying between the lateral angle and anterior margin strongly incurved anterior margin obtusely truncate not at all dentate flagellum subclavate the first joint shorter than the two following united the scape about as long or slightly longer than the pedicel and following three joints united space between hind ocelli about equal to half that between them and eyes thorax elongate narrowed anteriorly the distance between the anterior margin of tegula and pronotal angle greater than the width of dorsulum at widest part pronotum sharply margined subangulate at sides with separated punctures dorsulum and scutellum finely striated longitudinally postscutellum indistinctly carinated at sides middle segment concave or depressed medially rugose but not coarsely with a carina originating near each side of postscutellum and diverging toward sides which are smooth except in the region of the obtuse lateral carina where there are some coarse punctures  stem of petiole short and thick not equalling hind coxa and trochanter in length the enlarged portion of petiole broadly ovate widest toward base finely punctured medially and coarsely so at sides second segment above with fine compact punctures beneath with large separated ones the pedicel short and thick  the third dorsal is margined apically with a thin membrane which is emarginate near each side radial side of second submarginal cell slightly greater than the distance between the first transversocubital and the first recurrent nervures on the cubital nervure third submarginal cell somewhat rhomboidal the outer nervure sinuous.
Length 12 mm.
Chapada.
One specimen.
In coloration this species is quite similar to Z. miniatus but it is not closely related to that insect.
The peculiarly shaped accessory membrane of third dorsal segment is similar to that described and figured by de Saussurc as occurring on the second segment of Z. lohxdatm and the coloration of Z. thoracicus and lohulatus seems to be very similar.
But the fact that lobulatm has the pronotum spinose laterally and with a short coarsely jjuuctured thorax shows that they are not closely related.
In the length of thorax Z. thoracicus differs from all the other species in the present collection.
Zethus ferrugineus Sauss.
Four specimens from Santarem.
These specimens differ from the description in some points of coloration and as no structural characters whatever are given by de Saussure I am not certain that these specimens really represent Z. fernujineus.
Zethus chrysopterus Sauss.
A single specimen from Santarem.
Z. sculpturalis Smith is probably identical with this species.
Zethus rugosiceps n. sp.
Black spot at sides of clypeus dot behind each antenna in emargination of eye short stripe on mandibles near base scape beneath pronotum anteriorly base and apex of teguhv line on postscutellum  spot near apex of four anterior femora beneath stripe on their tibiae line at apex of petiole and a slender one before apical margin of segments 2 and 3 yellow wings subhyaline darker in marginal cell and slightly stained with yellow.
.
 Head coarsely rugoso punctate including cheeks and front clypeus a little less coarsely punctured convex not quite twice as broad as long the fore margin smooth broadly subtruncate or incurved flagellum clavate scape about as long as pedicel and following three joints united  space between hind ocelli equal to or a little greater than that between them and eyes pronotum cristate spinose at sides rugosopunctate  dorsulum with coarse separated punctures with a raised line anteriorly in the middle and two short indistinct impressed lines posteriorly  postscutellum sharply carinated at sides and with a short toothlike carina medially middle segment concave the concavity smooth and bounded externally by a sharp carina beyond which the middle segment is rugose as far as and slightly beyond the sharp lateral carina stem of petiole fully as long as hind coxa and trochanter the enlarged portion elongateovate with large separated punctures the petiole 422 rROCEEDiNGS or the academy of 189P.
much as in Z. fraternus but with a longer stem aud narrower enlarged portion  second segment above finely and closely punctured beneath with large separated punctures smooth at base the pedicel short and stout no distinct radial side to the second submarginal cell the first aud second transversocubital veins almost coalescing above.
Length 16 mm.
Santarem.
One specimen.
Zethus proximus  sp.
Black dot behind each antenna line on pronotum anteriorly dot at base and apex of tegulse at each side of scutellum and postscutellum a stripe on four anterior tibie line at apex of petiole emarginate anteriorly and continued a little along sides and a line on segments 24 that on the dorsal segments emarginate anteriorly in the middle yellow in c
a line on mandibles clypeus anteriorly and scape beneath yellow  head and thorax with thin hoary pile that on second segment brownish in certain lights wings pale subhyaliue slightly brownish in costal cell.
.
 Head coarsely rugosopunctate including cheeks and front clypeus with large shallow punctures about or nearly twice as broad as long its fore margin broadly subtruncate subdentate laterally a tolerably distinct Tshaped carina between antennse space between hind ocelli about equal to that between them and eyes scape slender but barely as long as pedicel and following three joints united pronotum cristate spinose laterally rugosopunctate dorsulum with large separated punctures sparse medially Avith an impressed line anteriorly in the middle aud two indistinct ones posteriorly postscutellum carinated and subdentate laterally not carinated or tuberculate medially middle segment concave the concavity nearly smooth and bounded externally by a carina between which and the lateral carina the segment is rugose the rugse not extending on sides but the lateral carina is margined externally by a I'ow of fovese stem of petiole shorter than hind coxa and trochanter stout the enlarged portion elongateovate scarcely narrowed apical ly with coarse separated punctures second segment finely and closely punctured beneath the punctures large and sparse the pedicel short and thick second submarginal cell with a radial side nearly equalling the distance between the first transversocubital and first recurrent nervures on the cubital nervure third submarginal cell rhomboidal higher than long not widened above the outer nervure nearly straight.
Length 13 mm.
cT.  Much more coarsely sculptured than 
 clypeus anteriorly scape beneath line on mandibles also yellow clypeal teeth distinct  space between hind ocelli distinctly greater than that between them and eyes first joint of flagellum a little shorter than following two united the two terminal joints minute the ultimate joint but little if anything longer than the penultimate.
Length 11 mm.
Coruiuba April Uacarizal February.
Two specimens.
This species is very close to Z. rurjosiceps but is smaller the head less ornate with yellow the clypeus a little broader the dorsulum with an impressed line anteriorly and the petiole is broader and more coarsely punctured.
Zethus diminutus n. sp.
Black with tolerably distinct hoary pile dot behind each antenna in the emargination of eye a small one on cheeks pronotum anteriorly dot at base and apex of tegulse two spots on scutellum and postscutellum anterior tibiae in front line at apex of petiole bidentat3 or emarginate anteriorly and a line on apical margin of segments 25 emarginate anteriorly in middle yellow second doisal somewhat brownish at each side near base with brownish pile wings subhyaline fuscous along costal margin.
9.
 Head with shallow separated punctures cheeks subcarinate down middle clypeus similarly punctured convex barely twice as broad as long its fore margin with three widely separated teeth the medial one smallest an indistinct Tshaped carina between antenna space between hind ocelli if anything slightly greater than that between them and eyes pronotum cristate angularly produced or subdentate at sides rugosopuuctate  dorsulum with large rather shallow punctures anteriorly with a shallow impression in middle posteriorly with two indistinct ones postscutellum carinated laterally depressed medially  middle segment concave medially the concavity bounded outwardly by a carina the space beyond this carina roughened and with some shallow punctures but it can scarcely be called rugose  sides near lateral carina with distinct shallow punctures petiole with basal stem a little longer than hind coxa and trochanter the enlarged portiou elongateovate rather narrowed and scarcely narrowed to apex with large punctures strongest on sides second segment above compactly punctured beneath with large separated punctures smooth at base the stem short not as long as the width of apex of petiole but still it is more evident than in proxhnm or rugosiceps  radial side of second subraarginal cell shorter than the distance between the first transversocubital and first recurrent nervures on the cubital nervure third submarginal higher than long the outer nervure gently sinuous.
Length 12 mm.
Corumba April.
One specimen.
Resembles prozimus and rugosiceps in coloration but the sculpture of head is different Zethus coriarius n. sp.
Black  abdomen with sericeous pile  a linear spot at each side of apical margin of petiole yellow  wings subhyaline with anterior half of costal cell black.
9.
 Head with large close shallow punctures clypeus convex about twice as broad as long fore margin broadly subtruncate subdentate laterally an indistinct Tshaped carina between antennse flagellum strongly clavate the first joint distinctly shorter than the following two united space between hind ocelli equal to or slightly greater than the distance between them and eyes  pronotum cristate subdentate or angularly produced at sides rugosopunctate dorsulum with coarse separated punctures with a shallow impressed line anteriorly in the middle the usual posterior impressions entirely wanting scutellum and postscutellum coarsely punctured dentatocarinate laterally middle segment not rugose tolerably smooth coriaceous concave medially with two converging carina running from postscutellum and quite sharp at base lateral carina distinct petiole subcampanulate stem longer than hind coxa and trochanter slender enlarged portion with large separated punctures a little narrowed to ap'ex second segment above with shallow punctures except toward base which is smooth or finely punctured ventral surface with larger punctures smooth and shining at base pedicel short and stout radial side of second submarginal cell about equal to the distance between the first transversocubital and first recurrent nervures on the cubital nervure third submarginal cell higher than long rhomboidal the outer nervure nearly straight.
Length 12 mm.
Chapada March and November.
Two specimens.
The almost smooth leatheplike surface of middle segment is characteristic of this species.
Zethus notatus nsp.
Black  abdomen with pale sericeous pile  mandibles except tips broad line surrounding the anterior and lateral portions of clypeus spot at each side of face behind each antenna in the eyeemargination at summit of eyes stripe on posterior orbits spot at each side of pronotum anteriorly beneath wing and at each side of scutellum outer margin of tegulte large spot on fore femora near apex their tibiae in fi'ont stripe on medial tibise line at apex of petiole and a slender one at apex of segments 2 and 3 yellow wings subliyaline a fuscous cloud in the costal cell anteriorly.
.
 Head flat the front and vertex finely striatopunctate clypeus subtilely striatopunctate shaped as in Z. thoracicm about onethird broader than long the fore margin broadly produced subtruncate or subrounded the side lying between the lateral angle and anterior margin incurved no carina between antennae the latter with flagellum subclavate the first joint a little shorter than the following two united  space between hind ocelli somewhat depressed a little less than that between them and eyes thorax elongate the prothorax lengthened narrowed and sharply margined anteriorly subdeutate laterally with strong separated punctures dorsulura nearly onethird longer than broad rather subtilely striatopunctate suture between dorsulum and scutellum coarsely foveolate the latter impressed postscutellum subcariuate laterally middle segment depressed or subconcave medially Avith two sharp slightly diverging carinae beginning one at each side of postscutellum the depressed surface lying between them with not very strong transverse rugae the surface between them and the feeble lateral carina covered with deep rounded holes somewhat resembling reticulations sides smooth at base coarsely punctured above and posteriorly enlarged portion of petiole subtruncate anteriorly its junction with the basal stem forming an angle when viewed from side and transversely carinated the enlargement is stout widest at base strongly contracted just before the apex the upper surface very coarsely punctured especially basally carinated down middle and with a strong depression before apex the ventral surface bearing a large Yshaped carina second segment Avith pedicel short and stout the dorsal surface finely and closely punctured ventrally with larger separated punctures sparse toward base  second submarginal with no radial side the first and second transversocubital veins uniting above.
Length 9 mm.
c.
 Very much like 
 flagellura fulvous beneath and at tip the first joint about onethird longer than second apical joint truncate stout about twice as long as the penultimate the eleventh joint broader but still smaller than tenth  pronotum sharply dentate sculpture a little coarser than in .
Length 9 mm.
Santarem.
Two specimens.
This species and Z. thoracicus are clearly allied in the shape of thorax and fine sculpture of head and dorsulum shape of clypeus etc.
The postscutellum and middle segment are not strongly carinate in thoracicus however.
Zethus inconstans n. sp.
Black line on pronotum anteriorly twice interrupted spot at apex of fiare femora broad stripe on fore and medial tibiae line at apex of petiole and a narrow line before apex of dorsal segments 2 and 3  wings subhyaline fuscous along anterior half of costal and marginal cells.
9.
 Head with large punctures the front having the appearance of being reticulate clypeus convex silvery pubescent with shallow punctures about onethird broader than long the fore margin polished dentate at each side flagellum strongly clavate the first joint considerably shorter than the two following united space between hind ocelli about equal to that between them and eyes pronotum cristate sharply dentate at sides rugosopunctate dorsulum with coarse punctures anteriorly in middle with a raised line and medially with two somewhat parallel longitudinal carinse or folds' the usual posterior impressions absent postscutellum carinate laterally and dentatocarinate medially middle segment depressed or subconcave medially with a sharp carina beginning at the sides of postscutellum the surface between this carina and the very sharp lateral one rugose sides with some coarse strise posteriorly petiole with stem about as long as hind coxa and trochanter the enlarged portion elongate narrow barely narrowed apically with large sparse punctures second segment finely and compactly punctured above beneath with large separated punctures except the base which is smooth stem almost as long as the apex of petiole is wide more slender than in allied forms second submarginal cell with no radial side in consequence of the union of the first and second transversocubital veins above third submarginal widest above the outer uervure nearly straight.
Length Hi mm.
Var.
 Much more coarsely sculptured no yellow on legs a small radial side on second submarginal cell the third submarginal but little widened above.
Length 12 mm.
Santarem Mararu.
Two specimens that representing the variety coming from the latter locality.
Zethus miniatus Sauss.
Uacarizal February Chapada March Corumba April.
Three  four d' specimens.
Zethus carinatus Sm.
Twentvfour specimens Chapada January February November Corumba and Pedra Branca April.
This insect is evidently very similar to Labus Sichellanus Saussure.
Both sexes have 4joiuted labial palpi.
AA.
Pedicel of second segment longer than width of first segment at apex.
Zethus punctatus n. sp.
Black  spot on each side of face dot on pronotum laterally line on postscutellura two stripes on middle segment short line on sides of petiole at apex and two dots at base of pedicel of second segment an extremely narrow fine at apex of dorsals 25 and two dots on segment 6 sometimes yellow  stripe on all the tibiae and fore femora anteriorly on the tibiae and tarsi entirely yellow or fulvous  wings cseruleous.
The abdominal maculation is variable.
9.
 Front with coarse confluent punctures becoming more separated and shallow on the vertex  cheeks smooth or finely punctured posteriorly coarsely punctured near base of mandibles and less coarselv along the eye margin  clypeus not quite twice as broad as long with coarse shallow punctures the fore margin broadly truncate medially not dentate flagellum subclavate the first joint about as long as the two following united space between hind ocelli about equal to that between them and eyes  pronotum cristate not dentate  dorsukim with strong separated punctures throughout with a raised line anteriorly in middle the posterior impressions indistinct scutellum rather flat impressed punctured about like dorsulura  postscutellum entire  middle segment concave or depressed medially finely striated except in depressed middle the lateral carina very short only present at base  stem of petiole short and stout the enlarged portion fusiform strongly punctured except toward apex where the punctures are finer and quite dense second segment finely and closely punctured above the ventral surface smooth at base and with large sparse punctures apically stem long and slender about as long as first hind tarsal joint Avith distinct separated punctures  second submarginal cell with a radial side which is fully equal to the distance between the fii'st transversocubital and first recurrent nervures on the cubital nervure third submai'ginal rhomboidal higher than long scarcely broadened above the outer nervure gently sinuous.
Length 1921 mm.
d.
 Colored like  but Avith a yellow stripe on anterior margin of clypeus and on mandibles  sculptured more coarsely than in 9  antennae hooked at tip the ultimate joint obtusely pointed much longer than the penultimate the two together not much longer than the eleventh joint.
Length 18 mm.
Chapada January March November December  Corumba April.
Thirteen 9 and two c
examples.
In this species which may be the same as Z. Smithii Sauss. the male has the fourth joint of labial palpi distinct Avhereas in the 
it is rudimentary.
This peculiarity seems to exist in several species of the section Didymofadra.
Zethus simillimus nsp.
Very close to pundatus in coloration but having all the femora more or less reddish and there is no yellow on hind tibiae while abdominal segments 36 are broadly margined with or entirely yellow otherwise colored as in pundatus 9.
 Front rather closely striatopunctate the vertex finely and closely punctured clypeus twice as broad as long with strong shallow punctures becoming deeper anteriorly the fore margin dentate or subdentate at each side and very indistinctly so medially dorsulum with strong punctures becoming sparse and weaker medially dorsulum convex impressed middle segment as in 2nmctatm but more strongly striated petiole practically the same as in punctatus the pedicel of second segment a little longer and more slender outer nervure of third submargiual cell strongly sinuous.
Length 21 mm.
Chapada January and March.
Two specimens.
May be but a variety of Z. punctatm notwithstanding the difference of sculptui'e.
Zethus emarginatus n. sp.
Black short line on scape beneath at base crescent shaped mark at apex of clypeus inner orbits near base of clypeus dot behind each antenna and on cheeks near top one on tegulie anteriorly line on postscutellum two spots on middle segment near insertion of petiole line on each siIe of petiole on apical half dot at each side of base of pedicel of second segment a short line on its sides and a narrow on the apical margin of segments 26 yellow  tibise and the femora except hind pair more or less reddish antenna beneath toward apex fulvous joints 811 margined with pale yellow apically  wings dark subhyaline fuscous along costal margin.
r.
 Head deeply punctured closest and smallest on vertex and occiput confluently so on front cheeks except along the eye margin and near base of mandibles smooth  clypeus with separated shallow punctures covered with pale pubescence fully twice as broad as long the fore margin armed with two widely separated teeth a Tshaped carina between antennse the latter with the flagellum robust tolerably long the first joint a little shorter than the two following united the apical joint obtusely pointed if anything shorter than the two preceding joints united joints 9 and 10 emarginate beneath at apex especially the tenth a raised line runs back from the anterior ocellus hind ocelli margined outwardly by a furrow or pit the space between them if anything slightly greater than that between them and eyes  pronotum cristate not dentate or angulate strongly punctured dorsulum strongly punctured closest anteriorly with an impressed line medially in front the usual posterior impressions indistinct dorsulum similarly punctured impressed postscutellum entire middle segment sulcate medially rugosostriate finely striate on sides the lateral carina only present at base stem of petiole about as louf as hind coxa the enlarged portion somewhat fusiform but broadest basally with fairly strong separated punctures second segment above with fine close punctures basally those apically becoming larger and sparser the ventral with strong separated punctures except toward base which is smooth pedicel slender nearly as long as onethird the length of segment shorter than first hind tarsal joint radial side of second submarginal cell nearly as great as the distance between the first trausversocubital and first recurrent nervures on the cubital nervure third submarginal cell distinctly broadened above the outer nervure gently sinuous.
Length 14 mm.
Corumba April.
One specimen.
Zethus Hilarianus Sauss.
Five  one cJ specimens.
Chapada March and December Uacarizal February.
Zethus coloratus n. sp.
Rufous in greater part the following parts black front tips of mandibles cheeks on lower part flagellum above from apex of third joint sutures of thorax and its ventral surface entirely a blotch on the enlarged portion of petiole second segment except base and apex and base of third segment otherwise the insect rufous the coloration varying but little wings fuscous with purplish eftulgence.
.
 Head with strong shallow confluent punctures the front longitudinally rugose  clypeus more than twice as broad as long more strongly punctured than the rest of head the fore margin armed with a tooth laterally  a small tubercle between the bases of antennae flagellum subclavate the first joint as long as the second thii'd and about half of fourth joints united space between hind ocelli distinctly less than that between them and eyes pronotum cristate with coarse close punctures indistinctly subdentate laterally  dorsulum rather closely punctured at base and apex otherwise more sparsely with an impressed line anteriorly and medially with two longitudinal swelhngs or raised lines the posterior impressed lines tolerably distinct postscutellum transversely compressed with a small tubercle medially middle segment depressed medially rather coarsely striated transversely.
indistinctly or finely so on sides the lateral carina only evident at base stem of petiole a little longer than hind coxa the enlarged portion broadest and rounded basally strongly punctured contracted just before apex second segment above compactly punctured beneath with large sparse punctures smooth at base and covered with short hairs the pedicel rather thick distinctly shorter than the first hind tarsal joint radial side of second subinarginal cell distinctly shorter than the distance between the first transversocubital and first recurrent nervures on the recurrent nervure third submarginal cell enlarged above the outer nervure gently sinuous.
Length 2021 mm.
cf.
 Sculpture coarser than in 
 clypeus about twice as long as broad its teeth acute first joint of flagellum but slightly longer than the following two joints united the ultimate joint quite minute much smaller than the penultimate the two together scarcely longer than the eleventh joint which is deeply emarginate beneath at apex.
Length 16 mm.
Chapada January and March.
Five 9  one d specimens.
Zethus aurulens Sauss.
Four  one cJ specimens.
Chapada March and April Sautarem.
Zethus peculiaris n. sp.
Black abdomen polished front clypeus vertex and thorax above clothed with thick long yellowishbrown hairs round spot at each side of clypeus dot behind the insertion of each antenna small one at summit of cheeks line on pronotum anteriorly and on four anterior tibire spot at base of tegulre and at apex of four anterior femora and a small one at each side of apex of petiole yellow scape and following three joints entirely and a spot on all the remaining joints beneath rufous  wings subhyaline a little brownish along costal margin.
9.
 Head with strong separated punctures clypeus rather long but little more than onethird broader than long the fore margin broadly truncate unarmed flagellum rather long subclavate the first joint a little longer than the following two joints united space between hind ocelli about equal to that between them and eyes pronotum cristate with a few subtile indistinct punctures sharply dentate laterally dorsulum with fine punctures except aL extreme apex where they are large and coarse anteriorly in middle with a raised line the usual posterior impressions absent  scutellum punctured posteriorly postscutellum entire its hind margin angular medially middle segment scarcely depressed coarsely striated transversely the sides likewise striated stem of petiole fully as long as hind coxa and trochanter the enlarged portion imjiunctate shining subfusiform strongly depressed its entire width just before apex beneath before apex with a shallow pyriform depression which is transversely rugose second segment above punctured along apical margin only beneath the punctures more distributed but quite sparse pedicel slender distinctly shorter than first hind tarsal joint remaining segments distinctly punctured radial side of second submargiual cell slightly greater than the distance between the first transversocubital and first recurrent nervures on the cubital nervure third submargiual cell nearly as long as high rhomboidal the outer nervure distinctly but not strongly sinuous.
Length 16 mm.
Rio de Janeiro November.
One specimen.
Quite remarkable by the densely pubescent head and thorax sculpture of middle segment and dorsulum and polished im punctate petiole and most of second segment.
Zethus geniculatus Spin.
Two  two cf specimens.
Santarem.
In the males of the specimens I have referred to geniculatus the ultimate antennal joint is long and remarkably slender and acute spiuelike it is quite as long as the two preceding joints united.
Table of New species of Zethus.
Pedicel of second segment shorter than width of first segment at apex 2 Pedicel of second segment longer than width of first segment at apex 19 2.
Postscutellum entire not emarginate carinate or dentate .
3 Postscutellum emarginate dentate or carinate .... 6 3.
Petiole campanulate  wings dark basally pale apically  pedicel of second segment scarcely evident.
.
.
sessilis 9 cf .
Petiole not campanulate 4 CALVERT.
AFRICAN NEUROPTERA.
VANATTA ON EULIMID.
vXiffilT '  MILLER ON VOLES OF CENTRAL ASIA.
PLATE XIV.
LEUROGNATHUS MARMORATA.
moore.
PLATE XV v'fvS'
PILSBRY AND VANATTA.
SOUTH AMERICAN ACHATJNlDyE.
PILSBRY AND VANATTA.
SOUTH AMERICAN ACHATINID.
4.
Shining black with middle segment legs and petiole red prominens 
.
Otherwise colored 5 5.
Front and clypeus striated ..'... striatifrons 9 d'.
Front and clypeus not striated simply punctured rufipes d.
6.
Middle segment not sharply carinate nor indeed carinate unless the angular crest of the two faces of the middle segment be called a carina 7 Middle segment distinctly carinated on each face ... 14 7.
Postscutellum carinate but not very distinctly at sides .
8 Postscutellum emarginate or dentate 12 8.
Dorsulum finely striated longitudinally .
.
.
thoiacicus 9 .
Dorsulum sculptured otherwise 9 9.
Enlargement of first segment slender elongate cylindricus cJ.
Enlargement of first segment shorter rolust .
.
.
.
10 10.
Front and clypeus sti'iated 11 Front and clypeus punctate imperfectus .
11.
Enlargement of petiole broadest anteriorly sides converging apically not rounded outwardly crktatus 9.
Enlargement of petiole ovate or subcampanulate sides strongly rounded campanulaius 9cf.
12.
Ornamented with rufous 13 Not at all rufous front and clypeus striated .
hexagonus 9.
13.
Front rather finely striated hicolor 9d.
Front coarsely striated jjroductus 9d. 14.
Enlargement of petiole very coarsely punctured subtruncate anteriorly notatm 9 c
Enlargement of petiole strongly but not coarsely punctured rounded anteriorly 15 15.
Pronotum not spinose laterally 16 Pronotum spinose or subspinose 17 16.
Only the apex of petiole maculated with yellow corirariics 9.
Thorax and abdomen at apex of all segments yellow dlminutus 9.
17.
Body of petiole tolerably stout ovate 18 Body of petiole narrow elongate fusiform .
incondans 9.
28  18.
Clypeus punctured like front dorsulum with a slender raised line anteriorly in middle  sides of clypeus yellov rxujosieejis 9.
Clypeus with deep separated punctures front rugosopunctate clypeus not yellow except anterior margin in d.
proximus 9 c.
19.
Head and thorax above without yellowishbrown hair .
20 Head and thorax above with dense yellowishbrown hair petiole smooth shining peculiaris 9.
20.
Head and thorax black 21 Head and thorax rufous coloralus 9d.
21.
Apical abdominal segments yellow tibiae black the medial pair striped with yellow shnillimus 9 .
Apical abdominal segments narrowly margined with yellow tibiae more or less reddish 22 22.
Wings blueblack.
Length 1821 mm.
.
.
pundatus 9.
Wings subhyaline costal margin fuscous.
Length 14 mm.
emarginatm S'.
Labus brasiliensis n. sp.
Head black clypeus except medially transverse spot behind the antennae the eye emarginations mandibles except apex scape except a line above broad stripe on cheeks a large spot beginning at summit of eyes and extending toward middle of occiput bright yellow thorax black pronotum entirely tAvo lines on dorsulum two spots on scutellum and postscutellum teguke large spot beneath wings middle segment except sides and in medial sulcus all the coxae and trochanters more or less the four anterior femora except hasally the hind pair except a stripe above all the tibiae and tarsi except a stripe on hind tibiae bright yellow petiole except a medial and lateral stripe second segment beneath excejt two spots beyond middle laterally and above except base and greater part of disc and the remaining segments more or less bright yellow in the male the black spots of second ventral segment are spread out so as to cover most of the segment flagellum rufous beneath black above wings pale fulvohyaline stigma yellowish.
9.
 Head with strong separated punctures those on cheeks finer clypeus rather small almost as long as broad the fore margin tridenlate the medial tooth indistinct a strong carina divides the bases of antennae and extends slightly on the clypeus flagellum clavate the first joint about as long as the two following united  space between hind ocelli less than that between them and eyes pronotuni cristate rather square anteriorly in consequence of the strongly augulate sides dorsulum longitudinally rugosostriate with two longitudinal raised lines or swellings medially anteriorly in the middle with a fine raised line and with a polished tubercle at each side close to the tegula  scutellum broadly sulcate down middle on each side of which it is polished postscutellum broadly and angularly emarginate middle segment rugose but rather finely with a deep rather broad medial furrow which is bounded by a high crista on each side the lateral carina sharp foveolate externally sides with some coarse stride petiole elongate linear not swollen or nodose narrowed toward base on its anterior third in length longer than thorax subdentate on each side before middle beneath strongly carinate down middle at apex with a broad shallow depression  second segment above finely and closely punctured beneath shining with larger sparse punctures pedicel rather robust long but barely half as long as first hind tarsal joint the segment gradually dilated radial side of second submarginal cell about equal to the distance between the first transversocubital and first recurrent nervures on the cubital nervure third submarginal cell a little narrowed above rhomboidal the outer nervure sinuous.
Length 14 mm.
.
 More coarsely sculptured.
Clypeus entirely yellow more than twice as broad as long with two acute teeth anteriorly first joint of flagellum shorter than the two following united the ultimate joint obtuse at tip longer than the penultimate the two together nearly as long as joints 10 and 11 united lateral angles of pronotum acute and prominent middle segment above with coarse rugte.
Length 12 mm.
Chapada September Santarem.
The 
specimen comes from the former the cT from the latter locality.
Saussure's suggestioni that the genera Elimus and Labus might be united is worthy of further thought.
In fact it is diflicult to understand why Elimus and Xa6tt.5should be considered distinct from Zethus. '
Syn opsis American Wasps p. 56.
Zethoides gen. nov. Allied to Zethus which it greatly resembles superficially and seems to difier only in the following points Middle tibiae onespurred  labrum broadly truncate  mandibles elongate with four large teeth reaching from apex half way to base on inner margin.
In the only species known the clypeus is armed with two large prongs between which it is broadly incurved and all the tarsi are flattened and short  but these are probably sexual characteristics.
Female unknown.
In the shape of mandibles this genus would fall in Saussure's  Legion II.
The Odynerites while the shape of abdomen with its pedicellated second segment indicates its affinities with  Legion I.
The Zethites. 
As it stands Zethoides must be considered a connecting link between these two Legions.
The palpi agree with those of Zethus in the number of joints those of the labial palpi in length are as follows  the first longest the second shorter but longer than the two following united the last smallest quite minute.
Zethoides Smithii n. sp.
Black autennse entirely cheeks base of clypeus most of pronotum outer margin of tegulse and legs more or less fulvous clypeus scape beneath mandibles eye emargination dots at summit and behind eyes anterior margin of pronotum spot under wing two dots on scutellum and postscutellum stripe on four anterior tibiae and medially interrupted line at apex of petiole yellow wings subhyaline brownish along costal margin.
.
 Head with strong not coarse sparse punctures clypeus finely and closely punctured the fore margin armed with two huge spines or teeth between which the clypeus is roundly emarginate  antennae curled at tip the ultimate joint robust broadened and truncate apically fully as long as the two preceding ones united penultimate joint smallest the ninth emarginate so that the apical one in consequence of the rolling up of the tip of antenna fits into the emargination first joint shorter than the two following united space between hind ocelli much less than that between them and eyes parted by a furrow which extends back on the occiput pronotum cristate dentate at sides with shallow punctures dor Synopsis American Wasps p. 59 sulum with larger shallow punctures with a slender raised line anteriorly in middle the usual posterior impressions indistinct or.
wanting on each side near the tegula there is a short fine raised line scutellum convex impressed postscutellum carinate laterally Avith a small tubercle medially middle segment concave medially the concavity bounded outwardly by a sharp carina beginning at each side of postscutellum in the shape of a lamella and gradually decreasing to a slender ridge space between these and the sharp lateral carina rugosopunctate sides a little roughened apically lateral carina reaching to the insertion of abdomen gradually increasing in height frora base until it is almost laminate at apex tarsi flattened unusually short hind tibiae more or less distorted the outer margin being strongly sinuate petiole with stem short and thick the enlarged portion strongly punctured rounded at base the sides only narrowed to apex from their apical fourth and then only slightly  second segment above with shallow punctures beneath with large sparse punctures the stem short and thick  second submarginal cell with a radial side a little shorter than the distance between the first transversocubital and first recurrent nervures on the cubital nervure third submarginal cell subquadrate oblique broadened above the outer nervure angulate medially.
Length 16 mm.
Chapada March.
Two specimens.
A. Petiole of abdomen with a long slender base swollen at apex more or less campanulate.
a.
Head from front as long as broad.
Eumenes chrysothorax Sauss.
One specimen.
Corumba April.
Eumenes sericea Sauss.
Same locality and month as the preceding also Sautarem.
Four specimens.
Eumenes bipartita n. sp.
9 .
 Black with sericeous pile  mandibles yellow black within basally reddish at apex  flagellum beneath near apex four anterior tibite and tarsi more or less and a ring on petiole near base reddish  front subconvex with indistinct shallow punctures medially impressed  ocelli in a curved line  clypeus feebly punctured pyriforra bicarinate apically the carinse terminating in sharp teeth separated by a notch thorax except scutella and middle segment impunctate  pronotum margined  middle segment broadly and shallowly channelled Avith rather strong distinct punctures except on sides which are nearly smooth  petiole campanulate about as long as that portion of thorax posterior to dorsulum with tolerably strong separated punctures furrowed transversely before apex and above with a broad shallow rather indistinct furrow remainder of abdomen elongateovate above densely punctured beneath almost impunctate wings on basal half blackish with purplish reflection apically subhyaline stigma brownish.
Length 15 mm.
Corumba April.
One specimen Eumenes testacea n. sp.
cf.
 Testaceous yellow the first and second segments except apices brownish  flagellum reddish  a semicircular mark on vertex terminating at each side at a point opposite the eyeemargination and curving backward so as to include the hind ocelli and being connected by a narrow line to a similarly colored curved line on occiput a spot in front of the anterior ocellus three stripes on dorsulum spot on pronotum at each side and spot on scutellum black  middle segment with a brownish mark on each side  front convex medially impressed with strong separated punctures clypeus elongate subacuminate impunctate much longer than broad apically with two cai'inie terminating in short approximate teeth ocelli forming a triangle flagellum long scarcely thickened pronotum margined not angulate dorsulum scutellum and postscutellum more strongly punctured than front scutellum subconvex not impressed middle segment less strongly punctured than dorsulum feebly so on sides the medial furrow deep petiole campanulate short about as long as that portion of thorax posterior to base of scutellum feebly punctured and just before apex above with a deep pit  dorsal surface of remainder of abdomen with feeble shallow punctures the ventral surface nearly impunctate wings subhyaline slightly yellow along costa nervures and stigma yellow testaceous.
Length 12 mm.
.
 Colored and sculptured like cJ' but the wings with a yellowish cast and darkened apically flagellum shorter subclavate.
Santarera One 9 two d specimens.
The clypeus is much longer and narrower than in E. sericea Sauss. and the black markings of vertex and reddish flagellum are good superficial characteristics.
Eumenes laevis Sauss.
Corumbu Pedra Branca and Mararii April Santarem.
Nine specimens.
Eumemes novarae Sauss.
Chapada December Santarem.
Six specimens.
Strongly resembles E. Icevis from which it may be readily separated by distinctly punctured abdomen and want of maculation on middle segment.
Eumenes insignis n. sp.
.
 Deep black covered with sericeous gray pile especially on abdomen spot behind base of antenna in the emargination of and behind summit of eyes narrow interrupted line on pronotum both anteriorly and posteriorly dot behind tegulie two spots on postscutellum a mark near the base of petiole above in the shape of an inverted U and a narrow line at apical margin yellow remaining segments entirely black the petiole beneath reddish flagellum at base beneath tibise and tarsi more or less marked with blackish reddish front with distinct though not coarse separated punctures medially impressed  ocelli in a ciu'ved line clypeus elongate pyriform flattened finely punctured with two long cai'inse anteriorly equalling at least onehalf its length and terminating in two large acuminate teeth thorax densely punctured especially on middle segment where the punctures are strongest pronotum margined anteriorly dorsulum with a slender smooth line anteriorly in middle scutellum with a short feeble longitudinal carina at base which is followed by a shallow sulcus reaching to apex sulcus of middle segment not very broad petiole shorter than thorax gradually broadened from its basal third to apex not impressed but transversely depressed before apex with widely separated punctures above remainder of abdomen rather fusiform but broadest toward base impunctate  anterior wings fuscous on basal twothirds and along anterior margin of hind wing otherwise subhyaline nervures black the stigma brown medially.
Length 1415 mm.
cf.
 Basal half of flagellum beneath and terminal joint reddish yellow elypeal carinse almost obsolete barely evident except on apical teeth  punctuation coarser than in 
 petiole above slightly longitudinally impressed medially wings darkened along costal margin only clypeus except apex line on scape and apical margin of sixth ventral segment yellow  seventh ventral smooth broadly rounded at apex.
Length 13 nnn.
Chapada March October November.
Two examples of each Eumenes laeviventris n. sp.
9.
 Black clothed with sericeous gray pile a spot in the sinu of eye short line on orbits behind and at sides of face dot at summit of eye posterior margin of pronotum medially dot behind tegulse two spots on scutellum spot on four hind coxie and at tips of four anterior femora stripe on all tibise and narrow line at apex of petiole yellow flagellum beneath except medially fulvous petiole ringed with reddish near base front with distinct separated punctures  ocelli incurved line clypeus broad subcordate finely punctured convex not carinate terminating in twa acute teeth  pronotum with shallow subtile punctures very finely margined  dorsulum with stronger scattered punctures anteriorly in middle with an impressed line and at apex with four short stronger impressions of which the two inner are most approximate scutellum subcarinate basally impressed apically middle segment with strong separated punctures broadly depressed or concave the medial furrow distinct foveolate petiole almost or quite a long as thorax more rapidly enlarged than in E. insignis impunctate transversely depressed before apex remainder of abdomen ovate smooth  wings broadly fuscous along costal margin as far as stigma the latter brownish or blackish as Avell as nervures.
Length 1315 mm.
cf.
 Clypeus entirely inner orbits of eye from base of clypeus to within the emargination scape beneath spot behind base of antenna two spots on pronotum anteriorly and rarely two spots on middle segment yellow  on the legs this color is much more widely distributed than in 
 clypeus smaller roundly emarginate at apex the carinse almost obsolete seventh ventral segment furrowed down middle.
Length 1315 ram.
Corumba April.
Two 9 eight cJ specimens.
This species hears a strong resemblance to E. imignis with which I had at first confused it but they differ in the shape of clypeus in female and in the punctate petiole of insignis the abdomen of heviventris being entirely smooth.
Eumenes convexa n. sp.
cf.
 Black with sericeous pile that on second segment golden spot in eyeemargination behind base of antennoe scape beneath clypeus entirely base of mandibles anterior and posterior margins of pronotum outer margin of tegulse dot behind them anterior margins of scutellum and postscutellura spot on mesoplurse above four anterior femora beneath except at base all tibise except inner stripe petiole above except at base and an elongate medial stripe and apical margins of remaining segments broadly especially the second bright yellow flagellum on basal half and tarsi reddish or fulvous  front with strong separated punctures  ocelli in triangle  clypeus impunctate terminating in two rather Avidely separated teeth which are preceded by feeble carinse antennal hook large thorax strongly punctured the dorsulum sparsely in middle pronotum margined the anterolateral angles somewhat developed scutellum convex impressed  middle segment depressed or concave especially toward apex  medial femora unusually broadened toward base  petiole longer than thorax gradually broadened from beyond its basal third impunctate transversely depressed before apex remainder of abdomen somewhat pyriform smooth with exception of a few large punctures before apex of dorsal segments  seventh ventral with a triangular depressed area  second segment evenly convex when viewed from side wings subhyaline fuscous in costal and marginal cells nervures and stigma black.
Length 1112 mm.
Santarem November.
Two specimens.
Eumenes superficialis n. sp.
9.
 Black with sericeous pile longest on middle segment and golden on abdomen  inner orbits from base of clypeus to within eyeemargination dot behind insertion of antennre dot on each side of clypeus basally and at summit of eyes short line on posterior orbits posterior margin of pronotum dot at apex of tegulie one behind these line basally on scutellum and postscutellum tips of all femora stripe on all tibise tarsi dark line at apex of petiole and remaining segment broadly bright yellow that on second dorsal covering at least onethird its surface and angularly produced anteriorly in middle and produced anteriorly along sides of segment flagellum fulvous beneath front strongly punctured prominent on each side so that it possesses apparently two diverging carinse originated at each side of fore ocellus  clypeus with fine dense punctures but little longer than broad terminating in two rather approximate short teeth not carinate evenly convex thorax Avith deep punctures those on pronotum closest  the latter margined anteriorly sculellum having the largest punctures impressed middle segment depressed down middle but hardly concave petiole about as long as thorax evenly dilated from about middle the enlarged portion sparsely punctured not distinctly transversely depressed before apex but with a fovea or pit at its summit second segment seen from side elongate above and beneath between base and apex apparently subangulate the contour of the second ventral is decidedly sinuous as the segment is depressed medially second dorsal densely punctured wings pale fuscohyaline the costal and marginal cells pale yellow stigma brown nervui'es darker.
Length 11 mm.
c.
 Base and sides of clypeus yellow flagellum more fulvous beneath  a dot sometimes on mesopleure and line on each side of fore margin of pronotum yellow antenual hook very slender spinelike the preceding six or seven joints minutely dentate beneath medial femora slender not unusually widened at base seventh ventral segment small smooth.
Length 10 mm.
Corumba April Chapada December.
One 9 two d specimens.
The resemblance borne by this species to convexa is only superficial.
Eumenes usitata n. sp.
9.
 Black head and thorax rather densely clothed with pale sericeous pile spot in emai'giuation of eye behind base of antennae an angular line on clypeus laterally scape beneath hind orbits above interrupted line on pronotum anteriorly its posterior margin two spots or a line on anterior margin of scutellum and postscutellum spot beneath wing and on four hind coxoe narrow interrupted line on sides of petiole line at apex and a line just before apical margins of segments 25 yellow  flagellum beneath basally fulvous four anterior femora beneath the hind pair at apex tibie and tarsi entirely outer margin of tegulse reddish mandibles reddish black at base with a yellow dot  front distinctly punctured clypeus elongate somewhat iiyriform finely and closely punctured with two carinas anteriorly terminating in two wellseparated teeth  thorax strongly punctured especially the middle segment the punctures finest on pronotum Avhich is barely margined  scutellura indistinctly impressed  middle segment but little depressed its punctures more or less confluent petiole fully as long as thorax gradually dilated from its basal third almost impunctate or verj' subtilely punctured transversely depressed before apex remainder of abdomen somewhat pyriform indistinctly punctured wings subhyaline the costal margin narrowly and the marginal cell fuscous  nervures and stigma black.
Length 12 mm.
d.
 Clypeus entirely and two spots at extreme base of middle segment laterally yellow in addition to the parts mentioned in description of female the spot behind base of anteunte is continued down to base of clypeus and the reddish of legs is more widely distributed  clypeal carinse almost obsolete  tegulae fulvous or reddish medial femora a little widened basally petiole longer than thorax seventh ventral crossed by a carina some distance beyond base before this carina the surface is dull opaque beyond it shining punctate  wings a little darker throughout than in 
 stigma dark browu.
Length 1112 mm.
Corumba April May Santarem.
One 9 twelve c
specimens.
Kelated to E. incerta and Icevis Saussure  the petiole is longer and more slender than in the latter and the thorax is more maculated than in incerta in which species the clypeus is broader with the carinte comparing females stronger.
Humenes incerta Sauss.
One 9 two d specimens.
Rio de Janeiro November.
The female which has not been described is very close to E. usitata but the punctures of middle segment are more separated and less coarse  other differences are pointed out in the note accompanying the description of nsitata.
The seventh ventral of c
is bituberculate near base.
Eumenes callimorplia Sauss.
Mararu April  Sautareni.
Seven specimens all females.
Eumenes picturata n. sp.
.
 Yellow and black head yellow with the front and face except a triangular spot between insertion of antennae and occiput black clypeus sometimes with an elongate black mark scapeabove and joints 28 of flagellum above black theflagellum otherwise fulvous  thorax yellow a dot on each side of pronotum the dorsulum except two lines spot on scutellum black  teguloe brownish medially  legs entirely yellow petiole yellow except the black base and a brown blotch above yellow remaining segments black with apical margins broadly yellow as well as side of second dorsal the second ventral brownish front with strong separated punctures  ocelli in curved line  clypeus convex microscopically punctured almost as broad as long terminating in twolarge teeth not carinated pronotum with shallow punctures very finely margined  dorsulum with stronger deeper punctures which are closest at apex scutellum strongly punctured deeply impressed middle segment concave posteriorly with rather large shallow separated punctures closest toward base petiole a little shorter than thorax rather gradually enlarged from a point just before its middle elongate campanulate impunctate transversely depressed before apex remainder of abdomen fusiform impunctate with sericeous pile  wings subhyaline yellowish along costal margin the nervures and stigma reddish brown.
Length 1415 nm.
c.
 Coloration like that of 9 with second ventral segment yellow clypeus narrow triangularly notched at apex medial femora not widened basally  petiole fully as long as thorax  seventh ventral segment deeply and narrowly sulcate down middle the sides of the furrow raised so that two parallel carine are present.
Length 14 mm.
Pedra Branca and Corumbn in April.
Two  one S' specimens.
Eumenes consobrina Sauss.
Corumba March April  Rio de Janeiro November Fourteen specimens.
In the cJ' the seventh ventral is sulcate down middle.
Eumenes parvula Sauss.
Corumba April May Chapada January April December Rio de Janeiro November.
Fourteen specimens.
lumenes sufFusa n. sp.
9.
 Black variegated with rufous head black a rufous spot between antennse and on clypeua medially sides of clypeu dot in eyeemargination hind orbits above spot near base of clypeus pale yellow scape except above at apex and flagellura beneath reddish thorax with glittering pile longest on middle segment pronotum except a spot on each side two lines on dorsulum scutellum and postscutellum entirely middle segment except medially and sides greater part of mesopleurse and coxte and legs except femora above petiole at sides and apically second and third dorsals apically two large blotches on second ventral and segments 46 dull rufous a yellow hue at apex of petiole and just before apex of second segment front with rather strong separated punctures covered in certain lights Avith silky pile pertaining slightly to golden clypeus flat sparsely punctured pyriform not or indistinctly carinate terminating in two triangular teeth  ocelH in curved line flagellum clavate thorax strongly punctured most closely on pronotum the latter distinctly margined punctures of dorsulum quite coarse posteriorly as are those of scutellum which is indistinctly impressed  middle segment broadly depressed or subconcave petiole hardly as long as thorax narrowly campanulate strongly punctured gradually enlarged from a point before terminus of its basal third narrowly transversely depressed before apex second dorsal more closely punctured the remaining dorsals more finely ventrals impunctate wings subhyaline broadly dark fuscous along costal margin and in marginal cell stigma brownish nervurcs dark.
Length 9 mm.
cJ'.
 Clypeus entirely yellow longer than broad widely and triangularly notched at apex petiole fully as long as thorax seventh ventral plate with a basal carina which terminates in a tooth or sharp tubercle medially.
Length 9 mm.
Corumba April Chapada November December.
Eleven 9 three c
specimens.
Compared with E. uruguayensis Sauss. with which suffusus is closely related the clypeus is a little longer and narrower the front has sericeous pile the petiole is stouter with the swollen portion larger though less convex and punctuation of second dorsal is stronger.
The coloration of both species is remarkably similar but in xiruguayensis there is no black on pronotum and no red on scutellum and the apical segments are dark.
Eumenes uruguayensis Sauss.
Chapada November December.
One of each sex.
The male which is not yet described closely resembles E. mffma with the pronotum entirely rufous  clypeus black marked with yellow on each side armed at apex with two widely separated teeth almost as broad as long scutellum red distinctly impressed as in the  the petiole is much smaller than in suffusa  base of second dorsal impuuctate seventh ventral not carinate smooth third submarginal cell shorter than in suffusa.
Length 8 mm.
Eumenes compacta n. sp.
.
 Black head thorax on sides and posteriorly and abdomen with thin silky pile that on middle segment brightest and longest spot between antennse in the emargination of eye on base of mandibles on sides of clypeus sometimes short line on hind orbits above line at apex of petiole and before apex of second segment yellow  antennae beneath greater part of mandibles pronotum except a blotch on each side sides of scutellum and postscutellum sometimes two comparatively small blotches on middle segment spot at top of mesopleurie sometimes wanting tips of femora except posteriors tibiie except a stripe internally tarsi and petiole at apex beneath and on sides slightly rufous apical segments margined with testaceous  front strongly punctured  ocelli in a curved line  clypeus aipareutly very finely striatopunctate longitudinally almost as wide as long terminating in two sharp teeth preceded by a carina which becomes gradually obsolete toward middle of clypeus  thorax deeply punctured the pronotum most closely the latter margined and with the lateral angles prominent though obtuse  dorsulum with three parallel impressions posteriorly scutellum indistinctly impressed middle segment depressed or subconcave posteriorly petiole elongate campanulate gradually enlarged from its basal third the enlargement strongly punctured and highly convex transversely depressed before apex  second dorsal closely punctured except at base the third and fourth dorsals less closely wings subhyaline broadly fuscous along costa and in marginal cell stigma and nervures blackish.
Length 9 10 mm.
.
 Colored like 9 with the rufous of thorax more diffused the hind margin of pronotum and a spot at each anterolateral angle and a line on dorsals 36 before apex yellow sculpture coarser clypeus with the teeth widely separated the carinse only evident on them medial femora not widened basally seventh ventral segment smooth or finely punctured slightly emarginate on each side before apex so that it appears produced in middle at apex.
Length 9 mm.
Corumba April Chapada November December.
Four 9 one cJ' specimens.
This is a more robust species than suffiisa or uruguayeiwis.
aa.
Head from front broader than long.
1.
Second segment evenly convex above and beneath.
Eumenes colorata n. sp.
9.
 Head yellow the front vertex and occiput black mandibles except base a central longitudinal line on clypeus and flagellum beneath ferruginous  thorax except the black dorsulum yellow a ferruginous stain on each side of pronotum scutellum apically except a small black spot and sides of thorax and middle segment indistinctly coxae and femora above pale ferruginous basal onefifth of petiole black the remainder pale ferruginousyellow with a yellow apical border remaining segments black margined with yellow  front with strong separated punctures with golden pile ocelli in a curved fine clypeus subquadrate sparsely punctured with two sharp approximate teeth at apex  flagellum' subclavate 
 joints 911 missing thorax much longer than broad with strong punctures those on scutellum largest  pronotum scarcely margined  middle segment broadly depressed or shallowly concave posteriorly with thin golden pile sides sparsely punctured  petiole a little longer than thorax with sparse punctures narrow somewhat clavate being gradually broadened from a point beyond its basal third transversely impressed before apex  remainder of abdomen short ovate with brownish sericeous pile second dorsal with shallow separated punctures  wings subhyaline faintly tinged with yellowish in costal cell  nervures and stigma brownish.
Length 11 mm.
cP.
 Colored like 9 except that the black of front extends as far as base of clypeus on each side of insertion of antennae the ferruginous more pronounced on thorax forming the background for the yellow which appears as maculations flagellum almost entirely reddish medial femora not enlarged basally  seventh ventral segment elongate truncate depressed except at sides and base stigma yellowish.
Length 11 mm.
Chapada September Sautarem.
One of each sex.
Eumenes tinctura n. sp.
9.
 Black pronotum mesopleurie the scutella posterolateral angles of middle segment four anterior femora except base tibiae petiole medially and antennse except flagellum above from second and third joints rufous  sides of clypeus spot between insertion of autennse one almost filling the eyeemargination hind orbits above hind margin of pronotum line on both scutella anteriorly and a rather broad apical band on segments 1 and 2 emarginate anteriorly in middle yellow remaining segments margined with testaceous front with tolerably strong separated punctures with silvery sericeous pile ocelli in curved line clypeus convex impunctate but slightly longer than broad with two short approximate teeth at apex separated by a rounded notch flagellum clavate thorax with strong sepaiated punctures those on scutellum largest pronotum finely margined middle segment broadly depressed posteriorly petiole distinctly longer than thorax broadened from just before its middle strongly punctured basal stem slender a rounded pit in the middle before apical margin before which on each side of pit is a transverse depression  remainder of abdomen ovate second dorsal less strongly and more closely punctured than petiole  wings subhyaline fuscous in costal and marginal cells but this clouding does not fill them completely nervures and stigma black.
Length 8 mm.
Corumba April.
One specimen.
A male specimen from Chapada January I refer doubtfully to this species it is similarly colored but the red of mesopleurse is confined to the top the petiole is rufous apically the clypeus entirely yellow with the abdominal segments all margined with that color which is also commingled with the rufous on mesopleurse middle segment femora and tibiae  posterolateral angles of middle segment somewhat compressed  seventh ventral segment rounded at apex indistinctly depressed or furrowed medially.
Length 10 mm.
Eumenes invenusta n. sp.
9.
 Black with thin cinereous pile spot between insertion of antennaj in emargination of eye sides of clypeus narrowly scape beneath hiud orbits posterior margin of pronotum tips of all femora especially the auteriors fore tibire except internally stripe on medial tibiae externally a narrow medially interrupted line at apex of petiole and a line before apex of following segments yellow apex of segments testaceous flagellum fulvous beneath front Avith strong rather even punctures indistinctly impressed ocelli forming a curved line clypeus indistinctly punctured convex a little longer than broad with two small approximate teeth at apex thorax longer than broad punctures of pronotum sotneAvhat stronger than those of front while those of dorsulum are still stronger than on pronotum  the latter finely margined anteriorly  scutellum not impressed strongly punctured middle segment with strong deep punctures rather evenly separated posteriorly shallowly depressed with a short strong carina on each side of insertion of petiole the latter a little longer than thorax gradually enlarged from a point before its middle sparsely and rather indistinctly punctured the enlargement convex but not highly so transversely depressed before apex stem slender remainder of abdomen ovate the second dorsal closely and distinctly punctured other segments not distinctly punctured wings subhyaline the anterior portion of costal and marginal cells shghtly darker nervures and stigma black.
Length 10 mm.
Santarem.
One specimen.
Related to confiuenta and proxima differing from both in its longer thorax and petiole.
Eumenes confiuenta nsp.
9.
 Blacky clothed with grayish sericeous pile  sides of clypeus spot between antennse in the eyeemargination hind orbits scape beneath anterior and posterior margins of pronotum rather broadly both scutella anteriorly spot on petiole before middle and apical margins of segments 15 yellow that on segments 1 and 2 brightest flagellum beneath femora and tibia more or less outer edge of tegulte and petiole beneath on apical half reddish yellow front with strong more or less confluent punctures clypeus convex finely punctured medially produced at apex the production marked by two short carine which give it the appearance of being bideutate  thorax but little longer than broad strongly punctured most strongly on scutellum  the latter imjwessed  pronotum finely margined  middle segment with the punctures finer and perhaps 29 closest posteriorly depi'essed  petiole longer than thorax narrowly elongate campanulate enlarged from about middle with strong separated punctures transversely depressed before apex basal stem rather slender remainder of abdomen ovate second dorsal finely and closely punctured wings subhyaline the costal margin narrowly and the marginal cell in part fuscous uervures and stigma blackish.
Length 9 mm .
 Clypeus except apex yellow otherwise colored like female with the maculation if anything less marked no yellow on scutellum sculpture stronger especially evident on second dorsal segment wings darker  seventh ventral segment rounded apically punctures of front well separated not confluent.
Length 9 mm.
Santarem.
One of each sex.
That which I have described as the cf will perhaps prove to be a different species  it is referred here with much doubt.
Eumenes proxima n. sp.
.
 Black clothed with grayish sericeous pile that on head in front and middle segment silvery  clypeus at sides spot letween antennse in emarginatiou of eye hind orbits narrowly scape beneath broadly interrupted line on pronotum anteriorly posterior margin dot behind tegulse short line or spot at tips of femora beneath line on all tibiae first joint of tarsi except apically spot on petiole above near bases and line at apex of segments 15 pale yellow that on petiole extended a short distance anteriorly along sides scape beneath fulvous front with strong separated even punctures scarcely impressed  ocelli in curved line  clypeus convex fully as broad as long with indistinct scattered punctures produced medially at ajex the production depressed medially so as to appear bicarinate the apex scarcely notched the clypeus may be said to be indistinctly bidentate at apex  flagellum clavate thorax but little longer than broad pronotum with strong close punctures very short medially finely margined dorsulum with larger separated punctures those on scutellum which is indistinctly impressed still larger  middle segment short almost vertical broadly depressed posteriorly with punctures about as strong as on dorsulum but they are more rounded petiole narrowly campanulate distinctly longer than thorax less gradually widened than in confluenta the widening commencing at about or behind middle longitudinally impressed slightly above and transversely though not strongly before apex  second dorsal with close rather strong punctures much stronger than in confluenta  wings subhyaline fuscous brown in interior half of costal cell  nervures and stigma dark brown.
Length 9 mm.
Santarem.
One specimen.
Eumenes cribrosa n. sp.
9.
 Deep black a narrow line on each side of apical margin of petiole a twice interrupted broader line on second dorsal at apex and a continuous one on segments 3 and 4 or 35 and fore tibiie in front yellow flagellum fulvous beneath toward tip head in front with thin silvery pile  front with close large deep punctures not impressed ocelli almost in a straight line the middle one placed slightly anterior to the others clypeus convex subcordate about as broad as long with two small approximate teeth at apex separated by a small triangular notch with sparse shallow punctures  thorax almost square cribrose especially the mesopleurse  pronotum in middle as long as first two joints of flagellum finely margined more closely punctured than rest of thorax middle segment short almost vertical broadly though not deeply depressed posteriorly its punctuation having a reticulate appearance peti le at most as long as thorax the stem tolerably stout the enlargement beginning at about middle strongly punctured more or less impressed longitudinally and distinctly so in a transverse manner before apical margin  second dorsal with tolerably large shallow punctures  second ventral slightly prominent medially sparsely punctured toward sides together with rest of abdomen clothed Avith pale sericeous pile wings subhyaline the costal cell anteriorly and a spot in base of marginal cell fuscous nervures and stigma black.
Length 9 mm.
Var.

.
 Smaller punctuation of front more separated clypeus slightly shorter more strongly punctured stem of petiole more slender a yellow spot in middle of hind margin of pronotum and at base of medial tibie.
Length Ih mm.
Mararii April and Santarem.
Six specimens three of each form both of which occur at the two localities.
Eumenes globicollis Spin.
Mararu April Santarem.
Three specimens.
These differ from the allied species in the collection by the shining impunctate abdomen.
The thorax is almost square.
Enmenes gracilis n. sp.
9.
 Black spot between antennae in the eyeemargination hind orbits above posterior margin of pronotum medially anterior margin of scutellum and postscutellum sometimes anterior tibije in front and line on segments 16 apically yellow antennae beneath pronotum posteriorly sometimes anteriorly two obscure spots on middle segment and spot on petiole near base reddish body tolerably pruinose wdth pale pile that on head in front and thorax on sides and posteriorly silvery front with large wellseparated punctures not impressed ocelli forming a gently curved line clypeus convex longer than broad sparsely punctured terminating in two short approximate teeth the head is not so much broader than long as in allied species  thorax longer than broad with strong deep separated punctures those on middle segment widest apart and more regular pronotum with a distinct medial surface margined anteriorly punctures of dorsulum largest posteriorly scutellum not impressed middle segment but slightly depressed posteriorly petiole very long and slender longer than head and thorax graduall' enlarged from a point behind middle impunctate transversely depressed before apex remainder of abdomen impunctate wings dark subhyaline darker along costa nervures and stigma black.
Length 7 mm.
Santarem.
Two specimens.
The long slender petiole smooth abdomen deep pieveUke punctures of front and thorax and small size distinguish this species.
Eumenes fornicata nsp.
.
 Black with pale sericeoiis pile that on face and clypeus dense and silvery spot behind insertion of antennse line in the eyeemargination line on hind orbits above spot on pronotum anteriorly at each side sometimes absent its posterior margin narrow line at apex of petiole and a broader one before the apex of segments 26 yellow these latter segments brownish testaceous at apex flagellum beneath except medially and tibije and tarsi more or less especially those of the four anterior legs reddish head but little wider than long front with strong nearly confluent punctures distinctly impressed ocelli forming a low curved line clypeus convex slightly longer than broad terminating in two stout widely separated teeth each of which is preceded by a short carina thorax longer than broad strongly punctured the pronotuin most closely the latter sharply margined anteriorly and with the anterolateral angles prominent though obtuse punctures of dorsulum largest posteriorly scutellum impressed with large sparse punctures posteriorly and closer ones posteriorly middle segment with large deep punctures slightly depressed at base broadly and shallowly so posteriorly rather densely pilose petiole longer than thorax basal stem tolerably stout the enlargement beginning a little before middle and continuing gradually deeply and sparsely punctured and highly convex transversely impressed before apex remainder of abdomen ovate with rather strong close punctures above much closer and finer than those of petiole seventh ventral segment emarginate on each side near apex or in other words the apical margin is medially produced or lobate wings subhyaline fuscous in costal and marginal cells nervures and stigma blackish brown.
Length 9 mm.
Santarem November.
Two sjecimens.
From the several allied species known by the female only these specimens seetn to be distinct by the head almost as long as broad.
In this respect it is allied to E. gracilis the two standing as connecting links between the species with head at least as broad as long and those with head broader than long.
2.
Second segment either angulate subangulate or tuberculate on either or both surfaces.
Eumenes deforma n. sp.
.
 Black clypeus autennoe except flagellum above pronotum mesopleuriB both scutella two large blotches on metathorax petiole along sides and above anterior to middle and second segment on both surfaces at sides and apically rufous sides of clypeus spot behind insertion of antennae in the eyeemargination posterior orbits above base of clypeus posterior margin of pronotum spot on each side anteriorly dot behind tegulse and an apical or subapical band on segments 15 yellow' the band on segments 35 more or less obscure apical segments 36 testaceous brown legs brownish tibiae and tarsi lighter the four anterior tibiae more or less obscurely testaceous yellow front with coarse rather close almost confluent punctures impressed ocelli forming a low curved line  clypeus subquadrate about as broad as long with sparse shallow punctures terminating in two acute teeth separated by a triangular emargination  flagellum clavate pronotum coarsely finely margined dorsulum more strongly punctured especially posteriorly scutellum more sparsely punctured impressed middle segment with large coarse punctures almost reticulate the posterior surface deeply depressed or subconcave petiole as long as head and thorax the stem rather robust and medially carinated longitudinally the enlargement beginning behind middle evenly convex above and with large separated punctures not depressed transversely before apex but with a distinct dimplelike fovea at summit second dorsal segment when viewed laterally elongate subangulate anterior to middle with fine distinct punctures second ventral segment with a transverse fold or tubercle near base a little depressed medially wings subhyaline the costal cell and marginal slightly fuscous third submarginal cell much longer than high.
Length 9 mm.
Corumba April.
Three specimens.
The shape of second segment is very similar to that of E. superficialis which belongs however to the group of species having the head about as long as Inoad.
Eumenes pilosa usp.
9.
 Black with distinct pale brownish pile especially on second dorsal segment that on middle segment and petiole above longest antennae beneath fulvous tips of mandibles ferruginous line in eye emargination bordering the orbit beneath line on posterior orbit above posterior margin of pronotum medially tips of anterior femora and anterior tibiae in front spot at each side of apical margin of petiole and subapical band on second segment yellow the remaining segments margined with testaceous fore tibiae posteriorly testaceous brown front with deep separated punctures indistinctly impressed ocelli forming a very low curved line clypeus convex broader than long medially with large shallow punctures and terminating in two acute teeth separated by a tolerably large rounded notch pronotum with deep punctures Stronger than those of front finely margined its medial surface very short dorsulum punctured anteriorly like pronotum more strongly behind tegule strongly punctured except basally scutellum more sparsely punctured impressed middle segment with punctures about as strong as those on pronotum deeply concave medially presenting two strongly convex surfaces the sides at base with a series of coarse folds which are separated from similar folds on metapleurse by an elongate narrow raised smooth area petiole longer than thorax but hardly equalling the length of head and thorax the enlargement beginning behind middle with strong separated punctures transversely depressed before apex the depression preceded by a dimplelike fovea second dorsal with finer closer punctures the second ventral swollen or subtuberculate near base wings subhyaline costal cell fuscous anteriorly costa brownish  nervures blackish  third submargiual cell much longer than broad.
Length 9 mm.
Kio de Janeiro and Chapada November.
Two specimens.
Eumenes tegularis n. sp.
  Black antennse flagellum darker above prothorax mesopleurre tegulte except base scutellum postscutellum in part middle segment on sides tibise tarsi femora in part petiole at sides apically second dorsal at sides and apically second ventral apically rufous spot behind insertion of antennte in eyeemargination posterior orbits above hind margin of pronotum dot behind tegulse hind margin of postscutellum and apical margin of petiole yellow segments 35 with testaceous margins and a testaceous yellow subapical band the second segment without yellow front with strong rather irregular punctures indistinctly impressed  clypeus convex broader than long terminating in two approximate teeth with sparse shallow punctures  pronotum with a distinct medial length with deep punctures scarcely margined anteriorly dorsulum with large more separated punctures 7ith a distinct furrow anteriorly in middle and with two parallel longitudinal impressions apically tegular coarsely punctured scutellum deejly punctured impressed middle segment short coarsely and confluently punctured in depressed portion on the sides rather reticulate and above on each side of middle the punctures aie deep and sparse petiole about as long as thorax basal stem stout and rather short the enlargement beginning before middle Avith strong separated punctures transversely depressed before apex and depressed above in the shape of a fovea second dorsal with shallow separated punctures those at base deeper second ventral with a prominent tubercle in middle punctured latexally wings fuscohyaline darker in costal cell nervures and stigma dark third submargiual higher than long.
Length 8 mm.
Corumba March Chapada April.
Two specimens.
Eumenes tuberculata n. sp.
9.
 Black scape flagellum beneath mandibles pronotum except two dark blotches mesopleura two stripes on dorsulum scutellum postscutellum in part two blotches on midflle segment sides of petiole apically second dorsal at sides and apex and apical half or more of second ventral rufous  tegulie externally and apical segments testaceous brown the legs from apex of femora reddish or testaceousbrown  spot behind insertion of antennj3e in eyeemargination hind orbits above posterior margin of pronotum dot behind tegulaj hind margin of postscutellum and apical margin of petiole yellow the extent of rufous on abdomen is variable and sometimes there is a yellow subapical line on second dorsal front with deep rather evenly separated punctures faintly impressed clypeus convex about as long as broad with large shallow scattered punctures terminating in two approximate teeth thorax with large deep separated punctures largest on dorsulum and scutellum the latter rugosopunctate  pronotum with a distinct medial surface finely carinated middle segment depressed posteriorly above laterally with large deep punctures otherwise reticulatopuuctate finest on sides which at base are marked by a series of short folds which are separated from similar folds on metapleurse by an elongate narrow smooth area tegulai impunctate petiole tolerably stout about as long as thorax the enlargement beginning at about middle the stem therefore longer than in E. tegularu Avith strong separated punctures transversely impressed before apex but with the fovea or pit at summit as in E. tegularis  punctuation of second dorsal varying either shallow or deep second ventral with a prominent tubercle medially wings subhyaline broadly fuscous along costal margin to apex nervures and stigma black third submargiual higher than long.
Length 78 mm.
Var.
.
Coloration darker  punctuation more even  petiole with stem slender.
c.
 Colored like 9 and similarly punctured petiole a little longer than thorax the enlargement beginning behind middle with an indistinct pit or fovea before apex ventral tubercle larger flagellum clavate seventh ventral plate rounded at apex smooth wings paler much less strongly fuscous along costa.
Length 7 mm.
Corumba April May.
Twentyfour females one male.
A A. Petiole of abdomen with a short thick base the apical portion lengthened with its sides more or less parallel.
a.
Second segment not or but little compressed.
Eumenes chalicodomae Sauss.
Ten specimens.
Chapada February March Corumba April Santarem.
The amount of rufous on head and thorax is variable and the apical yellow fascia of petiole is sometimes wanting.
Eumenes canaliculatus Oliv.
A large series of both sexes from various localities.
The wings vary from fuscous to yellow fuscous and the thorax from dark brown to light rufous the dorsulum may be entirely reddish or maculated with black.
The varieties in the collection before me are as follows I. Wings dark fuscous.
1.
Dorsulum entirely red.
2.
Dorsulum with a black median stripe and lateral spot.
II Wings fuscous tinged with yellow especially along costa.
1.
Dorsulum entirely red.
2.
Dorsulum with a median black stripe.
3.
Dorsulum with a black median stripe and lateral spot.
aa.
Second segment compressed.
Eumenes filiformis Sauss.
Santarem.
One specimen.
Eumenes rufomaculata n. sp.
.
 Black clypeus except medially scape pedicel pronotun mesopleurte two large spots on dorsulum scutellum'postscutellum except base outer margin of tegulse broadly middle segment except medially four anterior femora except above the hind pair at tip tibise tarsi sides of petiole second segment except medially on basal twothirds rufous remaining segments brownish or reddish brown apically head and thorax above with dense short brownish hairs sides of thorax with pale pile  spot between insertion of antennse and hind orbits above yellowish front with deep separated punctures depressed on each side before the eyeemargiuation  clypeus elongate about as long as scape and pedicel not carinate its fore margin broadly but not deeply notched or bilobate flagellum rather long subclavate pronotum with deep rather close punctures finely margined obtuse laterally dorsulum a little less deeply punctured with an impressed line anteriorly in middle scutellum postscutellum and middle segment Avith larger more separated punctures the former not impressed the middle segment deeply though not broadly concave posteriorly petiole linear much longer than head and thorax strongly punctured and longitudinally impressed above gradually and but little widened from very near base the sides almost parallel transversely depressed before apex basal stem short remainder of abdomen compressed especially the second segment which has brownish pile and is deeply and compactly punctured above beneath depressed a little on each side and longitudinally raised doAvn middle wings fuscohyaline nervures and stigma black.
Length 1415 mm.
Pedra Branca and Corumba April.
Two specimens.
Eumenes fulvomaculata nsp.
.
 Black cljieus spot between insertion of antenme hind orbits pronotum except a dot on each side a triangular spot varying in size on each side of dorsulum close to pronotum scutellum except posteriorly postscutellum middle segment except medially and sides mesopleurte above a stripe on its lower moiety sides and apical margin of petiole large spot on each side of second dorsal from which a narrow line of the same color extends around the sides and apical margin of the segment and second ventral except basally pale yellow tips of mandibles flagellum beneath scape beneath at base tips of femora the anteriors beneath tibiie tarsi except posteriors which are dark rufous or reddish yellow apical segments yellowish testaceous front as in rnfomaculata but not quite so strongly punctured clypeus if anything slightly longer and narrower pronotum with shallow punctures finely margined rounded laterally dorsulum with deep separated punctures the medial impression of base not very strong scutellum with large sparse punctures fewest basally middle segment deeply and narrowly concave medially the concavity narrower than rnfomaculata with its walls steeper punctures of middle segment rather shallow those on sides deeper btit not larger etiole almost linear longer than head and thorax medially impressed and strongly punctured above the gradual enlargement beginning very near base and then slightly contracted at about middle so that the sides are somewhat sinuous a transverse depression before apex second dorsal segment compressed with strong dense punctures becoming feeble and sparse on sides wings fuscohyaline nervures and stigma black.
Length 1415 mm.
Santarem.
Two specimens.
Table of New Species of Eumenes.
1.
Petiole of abdomen with a long slender base swollen at apex or campanulate 2 Petiole of abdomen with a short thick base the enlarged apical portion usually lengthened with its sides more or less parallel 24 2.
Head from front at least as long as broad the clypeus longer than broad 3 Head broader than long the clypeus broader than long or its width equalling its length 12 3.
Petiole short campanulate 4 Petiole at least as long as thorax 5 4.
Black mandibles reddish yellow wings fuscous on basal half apically subhyaline bipartita .
Testaceous yellow variegated with black wings subhyaline yellowish along costa testacea 
d'.
5.
Greater part of thorax black 6 Greater part of head thorax and legs yellow  wings subhyaline yellowish along costa pcMr cia cJ.
6.
Abdomen with petiole alone maculated with yellow ... 7 More than one segment maculated with yellow .... 8 7.
Petiole distinctly punctured remainder of abdomen impimctate  petiole with a Ushaped yellow mark near base Abdomen entirely smooth  petiole with a reddish spot near base keviventris 7d'.
8.
Second dorsal segment apically with a broad yellow laud covering onethird or nearly half the segment ... 9 Fascia of abdomen narrow 10 9.
Viewed laterally the second segment is evenly convex above and beneath  wings darkened along costa and in marginal cell convexa d'.
Viewed laterally the second segment is elongate subangulate above and beneath between base and middle sujieyjicicdis 9 d'.
10.
Thorax more or less variegated with rufous form stout .
11 Thorax not rufous maculated with yellow sides of petiole usually yellow usitata 
d. 11.
Clypeus longer than broad maculated distinctly in both sexes  greater part of thorax sufiused with rufous  vertex with distinct though not strong punctures .
mffusa 
d. Clypeus almost as long as broad maculated in d only rufous on pronotum only though sometimes marking either or both scutella vertex strongly puuctured .
.
.
compada 'd.
12.
Viewed from side the second segment is evenly convex above and beneath 13 Viewed from side the second segment is either angulate.
subangulate or tuberculate on either or both the upper or under surfaces toward base 21 13.
Yellow and black the greater part of thorax and petiole yellow tinged with brown or reddish legs yellow and light brown colorata 9d.
Black at the most maculated with yellow or suffused with rufous legs dark basal ly 14 14.
Pronotum scutella two stripes on middlesegment and petiole apically in d  rufous and maculated with yellow as well tinctura 9d.
Without rufous 15 15.
Tlioiax short almost square 16 Thorax distinctly longer than broad 19 IH.
Thorax strongly punctured the punctures neither very deep nor coarse pronotum with scarcely any medial surface 17 Thorax cribrose pronotum with a distinct medial surface .
18 17.
Junctures of vertex irregular and somewhat confluent  both scutel la yellow anteriorly conjiuenta .
Punctures of vertex even separated scutella entirely black jjroxima .
18.
Petiole with basal stem tolerably stout .
.
.
cribrosa .
Petiole with basal stem slender  .
.
cribrosa 9 Var.
.
19.
Punctures of thorax very deep and widely separated petiole unusually slender longer than head and thorax and with second dorsal impunctate gracilis 9.
Punctures of thorax closer and less deep petiole and second dorsal punctured 20 20.
Petiole less distinctly punctured than second dorsal the enlarged portion seen from the side evenly and not very highly convex invemista 
.
Petiole more strongly punctured than second dorsal the enlarged portion seen from the side highly convex or arched fornicata cT. 21.
Second dorsal segment viewed laterally subangulate toward base its upper surface appearing flat having a straight contour insect marked wath rufous .... deforma .
Second dorsal segment convex 22 22.
Thorax or abdomen not marked with rufous abdomen with short thin brownish hairs especially on second dorsal ilosa 9 .
Thorax or thorax and abdomen more or less reddish .
.
23 23.
Clypeus broader than long petiole rather stout dorsuluni entirely black tegulse punctate tegularis .
Clypeus about as long as broad petiole more slender dorsuluni with two red strijoes tegulte impunctate tuberculata cf24.
Thorax maculated with rufous .... rufomaculata 9.
Thorax maculated with yellow .... fulvomaculata 9 .
Montezumia chalybaea Sauss.
One specimen.
Santarem Montezumia brunnea Sauss.
Three specimens.
Cliapada February April.
Montezumia Leprieurii Spin.
Cha2ada January Santareni February.
Four specimens.
Montezumia caerulea Sauss.
Numerous specimens of both sexes.
Chapada March April Santarem.
M. azureipeniiis Saussure I regard as a mere variety of ccerulea.
Montezumia infundibuliformis Fabr.
Santarem.
Eight specimens.
Montezumia cortesia Sauss.
Kio de Janeiro November.
M. sepulchralis is no doubt a distinct species and not a variety of cortesia as intimated by Saussure.
Montezumia analis Sauss.
Two specimens.
Santarem.
Montezumia Spinolse Sauss.
Numerous examples from various localities.
Montezumia sparsa n. sp.
.
 Black mandibles margin of tegulse middle segment postscutellum sometimes more rarely both scutella metapleurse mesopleurse beneath legs except part of coxe and first abdominal segment ferruginous wings blueblack two dots on postscutellum and line at apex of first segment yellow clypeus with sparse shallow punctures its fore margin broadly incurved subdentate laterally pronotum scarcely margined with deep confluent though not close punctures  dorsulum Avith punctures well separated with a narrow smooth line anterioily in middle middle segment more broadly therefore less deeply depressed than in Splnolw  first abdominal segment a little narrower more rounded at sides less pilose  second dorsal with sparse shallow punctures medially the second ventral shining with much larger sparse punctures.
Length 1922 mm.
Chapada March.
Six specimens.
I had at first considered these as a mere variety of M. Spinoloe but the differences in sculpture of thorax and abdomen as well as the different coloration of the former induced me to describe it as distinct.
The clypeal teeth are much more distinct than iu Spinolce and the clypeus seems longer.
Montezumia ferruginea Sauss.
Corumba February April Pedra Branca April.
Four specimens.
These represent the entirely ferruginous form mentioned by Saussure.
In one example the abdomen except first segment tends to brownish or subfuscous.
Montezumia anceps Sauss.
Rio de Janeiro November Uacarizal February.
Two specimens probably represent this species.
Montezumia macrocephala Sauss.
Fifteen males eight females.
Chapada March April October.
Montezumia carinulata Spin. 
Sauss.
has maxillary palpi six the labial palpi fourjointed.
I have therefore transferred it to Noiioiiia.
Monobia angulosa Sauss.
Numerous specimens.
Monobia funebris Grib.
Four Specimens.
Corumba and Mararii April Santarem.
I am inclined to I'egard this as a variety of M. apicaUpennu Sauss.
Monobia curvata n. sp.
.
 Black head except part of front scape pedicel and base of first flagellum joint thorax above almost entirely including the upper portions of mesoand metapleura fore legs except base the medial and hind femora and tibiic in front rufous the dorsulum and scutella are more or less blackish sometimes these parts are entirely black inner orbits beneath and spot at base of mandibles yellow wings blueblack with a narrow pale apical margin clypeus subpyriform with large rather shallo.w punctures its fore margin subtruncate subdentate laterally front coarsely punctured space between hind ocelli equal to or slightly less than that between them and eyes thorax with tolerably deep close punctures more separated on dorsulum middle segment above with much larger punctures the concave area smooth sides roughly angulate or subdentate but not spinose dorsal surface of abdomen with fine close punctures those on second segment sparse medially the ventral surface with larger shallow separated punctures.
Length 1617 mm.
cf.
 Colored like female but more coarsely sculptured cl'peus shorter finely punctured and in addition with a few shallow punctures its fore margin more incurved  flagellum rufous apically space between hind ocelli slightly greater than that between them and eyes first joint of median tarsi stout curved clothed with pale hairs within not much if anything longer than half its tibia.
Chapada March November.
Five females two males.
Seems to be close to M. anomala Sauss.
There is quite a distinction between the males of this species and angulosa Sauss. in the shape of the first joint of middle tarsi.
Nortonia carinulata Spin.
 Montezumia carinulata Spin.
Sauss..
One specimen.
Chapada November.
In the sixjointed maxillary  and fourjointed labial palpi this insect differs from Montezumia in which genus de Saussure placed it founding therefor the division Parazumia which name will probably take precedence over Nortonia which was not described until twentyfive years later.
.
 . . October 3.
Mr. Uselma C. Smith in the Chair.
Nineteen persons present.
The deaths of Carl Edelheim and W. G. A. Bonwill members were announced.
October 10.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M.D.
 in the Chair.
Thirtythree persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication   On the Summer Molting Plumage of Certain Ducks by Witmer Stone. 
Notes on Chilean Fishes with Descriptions of New Species of Sebastodes ' ' by James Francis Abbott.
October 17.
J. Cheston Morris M.D. in tiie Chair.
Twentyfive persons present.
A paper entitled A New Species of Thersites by Henry A. Pilsbry was presented for publication.
A paper entitled  Dynamic Evolution or Fortn as the Result of Motion by the Rev.
W. F. C. Morsel presented for publication April 11 1899 was withdrawn by the author.
October 24.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M.D. in the Chair.
Twentyfour persons present.
30 466 proceedings of the academy of 1899.
October 81.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M.D. in the Chair.
Eighteen persons present.
Francis Ralston Welsh and Mrs. Ellen M. Dallas were elected members.
The following were elected correspondents  Raphael Blanchard of Paris Carl Chun of Konigsberg Carl Gegenbaur of Heidelberg Richard Lydekker of London H. Mitsukuri of Tokyo Gustav Retzius of Stockholm  Wilhslm Roux of Halle  G. O. Sars of Stockholm Otto Zacharias of Plon Oldfield Thomas of London.
The following were ordered to be printed  THE SUMMER MOLTING PLUMAGE OF CERTAIN DUCKS.
BY WITMER STONE.
Of all our ducks I believe there is but one the Old Squaw in which the adult male has a distinct nuptial and winter plumage.
That is to say the old males of all our other ducks remain in the same plumage from the time they arrive in the autumn until their departure northward in spring.
Judging by what occurs in other birds we should say since these ducks show no tendency toward a change of plumage when they leave us in spring that they must retain the same feathers that covered them during the winter until the end of the breeding season when a complete molt occurs and a new dress exactly like the one just shed is assumed.
In other words the plumage remains the same at all seasons except for such changes as are effected by wear tear and bleaching and there is one annual molt at the close of the breeding season.
That this is not the case however has long been known and a peculiar summer plumage of the adult males of several of our ducks has been described.
This has been variously termed  summer plumage  molting plumage  plumage after the breeding season etc. but itstrue character seems not to be generally understood.
The first record of this peculiar summer plumage of male ducks with which I am acquainted occurs in the supplement to Montagu's Ornithological Dictionary 1813 under head of the Pintail Dafila acuta.
He here describes the molting of some domesticated individuals and states   In the month of June or beginning of July these birds commenced their change of plumage and by degrees after making a singular mottled appearance especially on the part of the body which was white before became by the first week in August entirely of a brown color.
The beautiful bronze on the head the white streak on each side of the neck and all the white beneath as well as the elegant scapulars had entirely vanished and to all appearance a sexual metamorphosis had taken place.
But this change was of short duration for about the latter end of September one of the males began to reassume the masculine attire .... and by the middle of October this bird was again in full plumage. '
' In 1838 Waterton described a similar molt in the male Mallard and later on many other species were found to have the same habit of molting so that in Ridgway's Manual we find the following species given largely on the authority of Dresser as having a peculiar summer plumage resembling the female  Mallard BlueWing and Cinnamon Teal Gadwall Widgeon Pintail aiid Scaup.
Additional species are mentioned in the British Museum catalogue.
Notwithstanding this however only a few of the above are mentioned in Elliot's Wild Fowl as having a peculiar summer plumage and other works have ignored the question entirely.
A study of the magnificent collection of arctic birds made by Mr. E. A. Mcllhenny at Point Barrow has shown conclusively that the virious Eider ducks the Pacific Spectacled King and Steller's Eiders all assume a peculiar summer plumage and further investigation adds the Redbreasted Merganser to the number.
With all these facts before us it seems not unreasonable to predict that in all ducks where the plumages of the male and female are markedly different we may axpect to find this double molt and dull summer plumage in the male.
So unexpected are some of the laws governing molts however that there may be exceptions.
As regards the reason for this double molt Montagu was unable to furnish any explanation.
He says  ' ' The double molting in so short a time peculiar to some species of birds is a most curious and extraordinary circumstance that seems to bid defiance to all human reasoning.
That some birds change their plumage with the season is evidently a gift of nature to accommodate their color to their habits as in the Ptarmigan Avhich changes his mottled plumage in the autumn for that of white in order that he may rest se3ure upon the bosom of the snow during winter.
But there is no such evident reason for a double change in the short space of two or three months in the same season.
1 Essays.
An examination of Mr. Mcllhenny's series of Eiders sheds a great deal of lioht upon this subject.
In the first place this summer plumage is in no sense a niiptial plumage  while it may begin to appear before the young birds are hatched it does not appear until the mating season is over and is distinctly a postnuptial dress.
It is mainly restricted to the head neck breast and scapulars as already pointed out by Montagu  that is to those parts which are most conspicuously colored.
The most important point in connection with this summer plumage is that the annual molt of the flight feathers does not begin until this dull plumage has been fully acquired and as soon as the new flight feathers have become functional the dull plumage as well as the rest of the old plumage is lost and I he annual molt of the body feathers progresses normally.
It will thus be seen that this dull plumage lasts only during the period when the bird is unable to fly for as is generally known ducks molt their flight feathers all at once and temporarily lose the power of flight.
At such a time a dull blended plumage would naturally be important in rendering the bird inconspicuous and thereby protecting it and such I think is the explanation of this curious summer molt.
Of the various names that have been suggested for it  summer molting plumage ' ' seems the best as it is different in character from any plumage known among other birds and as has been already shown has nothing to do with the nuptial season but is entirely related to the annual molt.
I may further state that the feathers of this plumage are very poor and loosely constructed like those of the  postnidal  or  first  plumage of young birds which is also a mere temporary summer dress.
In connection with the summer molting plumage of the Eiders it is interesting to note that Dresser in his Birds of Einojye gives an excellent description of this plumage in the King Eider but regards it as the  young male.
In the same article he quotes from Mr. G. Gillett who saw several of these birds in Matthew's Strait August 6  all apparently immature males though two specimens that were shot were found to be  entirely destitute of Ubis. 1880 p. 309. quill feathers so that they could not fly.
Mr. L. Lloyd iu Oame Birds and Wild Fowl of Norway states also  that the old male of the common Eider loses his brilliant dress toward autumn and becomes in a great part black but neither he nor Mr. Dresser seem to have understood the significance of these changes I can hardly realize that the question has not been satisfactorily explained heretofore but a somewhat extended research has so far failed to discover such explanation and I have therefore prepared an outline of this peculiar molt.
Descriptions of the molting plumages of the several Eider ducks found in Alaska are appended taken from specimens in the collection of Mr. Mcllhenny to whom I am under obligation for allowing me to make use of this material and to whose energy and perseverance science is indebted for one of the finest collections of Arctic birds yet obtained.
Somateria spectabilis Linn.
King Eider.
Breeding males up to June 1. are in full nuptial plumage.
The next specimens obtained were on August 24 and 30 and these illustrate the change to the molting plumage.
The breast is speckled all over with new brown white and black barred or mottled feathers the interscapulum is largely speckled with black and the head and neck are being covered with dull brown feathers with black tips.
The pattern of the green and pale bluish areas on the head as well as the black V on the throat are still clearly apparent though they are being rapidly replaced by dull brown feathers and the bright plumage that remains is but lightly attached and easily dislodged.
Another specimen taken August 24 but further advanced has lost all trace of the bright plumage and is dull colored all over the head neck and breast.
In none of these are the flight feathers molted though they are exceedingly worn and bleached Somateria vnigra Gray.
Pacific Eider.
The series of this species includes males in nuptial plumage up to June 3 after which none were secured until August 20.
This specimen is a little more advanced than the first King Eiders described above the dull molting plumage is nearly complete but traces of the bright feathering of the head remain the old worn flight feathers have not been shed.
The next specimens taken September 17 1 and September 23 5 are in full molting plumage  belly and wings as in nuptial dress head and neck dull brown streaked Avith black and with indistinct lighter areas on the head breast mottled feathers generally white in the centre black at the tip and barred with brown  some are all brown and some all white scapulars blackish or brownish varied with white.
In all six specimens the flight feathers have been molted and the new ones are about half grown.
The last specimen of this interesting series was taken October 6  it shows a full grown set of new flight feathers while the new winter plumage is supplanting the temporary molting plumage and the remains of the nuptial dress.
The breast plumage is almost completely renewed but is stiU flecked with brownish feathers while the new green feathers of the head may be seen just bursting from the pinfeather sheaths though still concealed by the brown feathers of the molting plumage.
Arotonetta fisclieri Brandt.
Spectacled Eider.
Males in nuptial plumage were obtained as late as July 27 while one specimen taken September 17 represents the molting plumage.
No similar bird has I believe ever been described.
The new flight feathers are nearly fuU grown the head and neck are gray streaked with black front and cheeks whitish eye area gray centre of throat white more or less brown barred feathers on the breast back and scapulars largely gray.
Eniconetta stelleri Pall.
Steller's Duck.
Adult males in nuptial plumage were secured by Mr. McIlhenny up to July 2 but none after that date.
Fortunately a specimen secured by Dr. Benj.
Sharp at St. Lawrence Island July 24 1895 No.
34520 Coll.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. supplies the desired plumage for this species.
It is as follows  Belly back and wings as in the nuptial plumage entire head and neck dull brown with a few of the green and white feathers still unshed plumage of breast very ragged in appearance with new brownish feathers everywhere replacing those of the nuptial dress.
As would be supposed from the condition of the plumage the flight feathers have not yet been shed.
Merganser serrator L.
Redbreasted Merganser.
Two males secured July 27 at Pt.
Barrow are acquiring the molting plumage the first instance I have seen of the existence of this plumage among the Mergansers.
They resemble the nuptial plumage except the head neck and breast exactly as in the Eiders.
The neck is like that of the female but browner head and crest dull brown the breast is becoming duU gray.
Many of the black feathers of the head and pink and black feathers of the breast still remain from the nuptial plumage but they are very easily brushed loose.
The flight feathers have not yet been molted.
1899.
473 A NEW SPECIES OF THERSITES.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
Thersites Webbi n. sp.
Figs l 2 Shell obliquely umbilieate domeshaiDed above moderately convex below the carinated periphery stiong and solid.
White under a dense olive brown cuticle above with some yellowish streaks becoming dirty fleshtinted on the earlier four whorls which are partially denuded of the thin cuticle  the base darker chestnut colored being dull red under the cuticle.
Surface rather glossy more so beneath showing moderate irregular growth wrinkles  the upper surface of the last whorl sculptured with oblique forwardly descending fine wrinkles very low and inconspicuous.
Spire domeshaped the apex obtuse.
Whorls 6 slowly widening those of the spire flat the suture not impressed  2the last whorl strongly carinated at the periphery the keel blunted behind the lip slightly swollen below the suture abruptly and deeply deflexed in front the latter half of the base becoming greatly swollen the umbilicus passing into a large excavated area behind the columellar lip.
Aperture very oblique squarish oblong white within  peristome well expanded the upper and basocolumellar margins straightened and subparallel the latter reflexed dilated and quite .
vaulted over the umbilicus at the insertion parietal callus bluish white strong.
Alt.
48 greater diam 51 lesser 45 mm.
A single specimen was found in a collection obtained by Mr. Walter F. Webb of Albion N. Y. in whose honor the species is named.
It bore the label ' Helix Solomon Is.
 but I regard this locality as open to grave suspicion.
It is probably from northern Queensland though one would scarcely expect a new Helix over two inches in diameter from that region after the labors of Dr. Cox Messrs. Brazier Hedley and others in the elucidation of the Queensland fauna.
T. Webbi belongs between the Hadra section of Thersites and the typical group of the genus but is nearer the former.
It resembles T. bipartita in the bicolored shell substance readily seen by looking in the aperture with the shell held toward a light in the structure and color of the lip and the form of the latter part of the base of the shell and tfie umbilicus.
It differs from T. bipartita in the strong peripheral keel flat whorls of the domeshaped instead of conic spire the greater anterior deflection of the last whorl the less rotund aperture and the darker color of the cuticle above.
T. Webbi vesemhles Thersites richmondiana in being keeled and in the flatness of the whorls of the spire separated by merely linear sutures but it differs in other particulars of form color etc. so much that a comparison is needless.
