SYNOPSIS OF THE UNITED STATES SPECIES OF THE HYMENOPTEROUS GENUS Centris Fabr.
WITH DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES FROM TRINIDAD.
KY WILLIAM J.
FOX.
This genus of bees is of tropical origin and north of Mexico is only found along the extreme southern border of the United States.
Of the eleven species herein noted ten are from the region bordering the Rio Grande and one only is found east of Texas C. errans from the vicinity of Biscayne Bay Florida a species probably introduced from the West Indies.
Ten of these eleven species have been first described within the past two years.
The author is indelited to Mi's.
A. T. Slosson and Messrs. Cockerel Ashraead and Griffith for the loan of material which has been of much assistance.
FEMALES.
1.
Abdomen greenblack with reddish maculation entirely reddish testaceous beneath face Avith pale markings an inverted Tshaped mark on clypeus pubescence of thorax above pale fulvous on sides beneath and on head in front pale gray  a stripe of black hairs crossing the vertex errans n. sp.
Abdomen deep black more or less pubescent 2 2.
Griseous pubescence covering the entire body that on thorax above and vertex slightly fulvous while the hair on legs from middle of tibite to apex of two hind pairs and anterior tarsi black abdomen pruinose labrum in perfect specimens densely pilose a triangular yellow spot on clypeus antennae entirely black the first joint of flagellum distinctly longer than the united length of four following joints pallida n. sp.
Abdomen at most with pale pubescence on first and second dorsal segment generally quite nude 3 3.
Only the first dorsal segment pubescent 4  The second abdominal segment as well as the first delicately pruinose ' ' Hoffmannseggice CkW.
lanosa Ckll.
9 uon Cress.
4.
First dorsal segment not densely pubescent front broader if anything than the distance between the anterior ocellus and apex of clypeus the latter as well as the labrum mandibles except apex and inner orbits narrowly beneath orange legs black with black pubescence .... ccesalpinice Ckll.
First dorsal segment more or less densely pubescent ... 5 5.
Clypeus and labrum pale 6 Clypeus and labrum black the former with a carina extending from base almost to apex mandibles and scape black labrum acuminate at tip first joint of flagellum a little shorter than the united length of the four following joints pubescence of four hind legs entirely black subhyalina n. sp.
6.
Width of front if anything greater than the distance between the anterior ocellus and apex of clypeus greater part of legs red their pubescence black except on anterior femora and tibife apical margins of dorsal abdominal segments 2 and 3 laterally with pale pubescence clypeus labrum inner orbits beneath and mandibles except apex orange rhodopus Ckll.
Width of front less than the distance between the anterior ocellus and apex of clypeus legs black or dark brown .
7 7.
Width of clypeus anteriorly scarcely greater than its length in the middle labrum comparatively small subtriangular subacuminate at tip pubescence on thorax beneath pale Cockerellii n. n. Hoffmannsegjice CW.
9.
Width of clypeus anteriorly greater than its length in the middle labrum larger semilunate its apex broadly and roundly slightly emarginate pubescence on thorax beneath dark brown or blackish atriventris n. sp.
MALE 3.
1.
Apex of dorsal segments broadly margined with testaceous.
2 Abdomen deep black margins of segments not at all testaceous 3 2.
First and second segments broadly fasciate with pale reddishyellow which color also marks the sides of abdomen  segments 35 pale testaceous at apex pubescence very dense completely concealing sculpture of thorax.
Length 21 mm.. Morsel Ckll.
1899.
'ATURAL SCIENCES .OF THILADELPHIA.
65 All the dorsal segments margiued apically with pale testaceous pubescence sparser the sculpture of dorsulum and mesopleurffi more or less obvious.
Length 16 mm.
margmata n. sp.
or var.
of Morsei. 
3.
Eyes strongly converging above first joint of flagellum as long as four following united abdomen pruinose above especially on first two segments the others sparsely  clypeus and labrum Avhite Hofinannseggioi Ckll.
Eyes not or scarcely converging above 4 4.
Front broad 5 Front narrow the distance between the anterior ocellus and apex of clypeus much greater than the greatest width of front 6 5.
Scape wholly dark mandibles dark reddish brown with black tips legs dark ccesalpinice Ckll.
Scape beneath and mandibles more or less yellowish legs reddish abdomen at least laterally with bands of pale hairs at apex of dorsal segments 24 .... rhodopus Ckll.
6.
Pubescence of thorax beneath dark brown or blackish that on four hind legs entirely black first joint of flagelfum shorter than the following two united .... atriventris n. sp.
Pubescence of thorax pale beneath the medial tibise outwardly and base of hind tibite externally with pale hairs first joint of flagellum nearly as long as the three following united lanosa Cress.
1.
Centris errans n. sp.
.
 Head and thorax black abdomen greenblack the apical margin of segments 14 or 24 the remainder and ventral surface entirely an irregular mark on dorsals 2 and 3 laterally tegulse and the legs reddishbrown the anterior femora more or less black scape beneath sometimes obscurely base of mandibles labrum an inverted Tshaped mark on clypeus inner orbits as far as insertion of antenna whitish yellow  head with pale pubescence that on cheeks palest the vertex crossed from eye to eye by a stripe of black hairs thorax above with pale fulvous pubescence that on the sides and beneath similar to that of the head in front fore legs fringed with pale hairs the short pubescence fulvous brush of hind legs of a paler fulvous than the pubescence of thorax above first 5 hind tarsal joint covered with appressed fieryred or coppery bristles oblong truncate longer and wider than the hind tibi8 abdomen on first segment anteriorly ventrally and at apex with some pale hairs otherwise uude wings subhyaline a dark streak in the marginal cell originating at base and a similar streak extending from the apex of the same cell in the form of an appendiculation.
Length 12 mm.
Florida Biscayne Bay.
Two specimens collected by Mrs. A. T Slosson who I believe has other specimens of the species.
C. errans whose origin is undoubtedly tropical as the present specimens should be considered wanderers from the West Indies who may or may not have taken up their abode in Florida is most closely related to C. apiealis and C. insularis from Saint Bartholomew and St. Domingo respectively Avith either of Avhich it may be identical but from the descriptions of these two species the present one differs in several respects which may however be due to lack of greater detail.
2.
Centris pallida n. sp.
9.
 Black densely clothed with grayish Avhite pubescence that on vertex and thorax above slightly pertaining to fulvous median and hind legs with black pubescence on tibiae and first tarsal joint remaining tarsal joints reddish clypeus with a triangular yellow mark labrum covered with dense pile that on base whitish at apex brownish mandibles black with pale pile at base externally first joint of flagellum slender almost as long as the five following joints tegulte testaceous fore tarsi fringed with pale fuscous hairs the pubescence of the inner side of first joint brownish abdomen with the pubescence of dorsal surface short hoarfrostlike except on apical half of fifth segment where it is black ventral segments 24 fringed at apex with long white hairs the fringe of segment 5 being dark brown the ventral segments medially are supplied Avith darker dense pubescence which when viewed from the side extends from base of second segment to apex of fourth sixth segment with brownish pubescence the pygidium elongate narrow reddish at base with a broad flat fold or swelling running from apex to near base wings subhyaline.
Length 1617 mm.
Arizona Phoenix.
Five specimens given to me by Dr. H. G. Griffith by whom they were collected in May 1898 on Ihe flowers of the  Palo Verde Parkinsonia Torreyana.
Dr. Griffith states the bees were alnmdant and easily captured allowing the collecting bottle to be slipped up quite close to them and the stopper then used in such a manner as to knock them into the bottle.
This apparent lethargic condition of the specimens is quite unusual for species of Centris as from all accounts they are usually very rapid flyers and easily disturbed after the manner of Odonata
I can testify from experience as to the alertness of two of the West Indian species C. hcemorrhoidalis and C. fasciata
The abdomen is densely pruinose aove 3.
Centris Morsei Ckll.
Centris Morsei CockereU Proe.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1897 355 .
New Mexico Mcsilla.
Quite distinct by its large size 21 mm. 
and the pale reddishyellow bands on dorsal segments 1 and 2.
4.
Centris marginata n. sp.
rj.
 Black ventral segments laterally testaceousyellow all the dorsals at apex broadly margined with testaceous flagellum slightly brownish beneath  clypeus labrum and spot between antenna at base of clypeus bright lemonyellow mandibles reddishbrown with black tips entire insect covered with pale gray pubescence except the abdomen above which is quite bare excepting the extreme base of first segment the pubescence inclining to fulvous on top of head and thorax and sufficiently thin on dorsulum and mesopleurse to display the sculpture front broad first joint of flagellum about as long as the three following united legs robust pubescence of anterior tibite and tarsi internally reddishbrown that on first joint of hind tarsi internally dark wings subhyaline nervures blackish.
Length 16 mm.
New Mexico  Las Cruces August 23 on flowers of CevaUia dnuata.'
One specimen received from Mr. Cockerell and bearing the label  C. ccesalpinice cf which name was probably attached to it by error as it neither agrees with the description of the male of C. ccesalpinice nor is it even closely allied to the female of that species.
Its affinities aie to C. Morsei from which it does not difier structurally.
5.
Centris caesalpiniae Ckll.
Centris cmsalpinice Cockerell Ann.
and Mag.
N. H. Ser.
6 xix 394 
d 1897.
New Mexico  Las Cruces.
I have not seen the male of this specie a specimen received from Mr. Cockerell marked C. ccealpinie df differing so obviously from the description that I have conckided that it was so kabelled by mistake and have described it as new see C. mary hiatus.
6.
Centris rhodopus Ckll.
Centris ccesalpinmr.
rhodopus Cockerell Ibid. 395 
cJ' 197.
New Mexico  Las Cruces.
It seems better to regard this as a distinct species from C. ccesalpinue  it has wellmarked differences.
One male sent by Mr. Cockerell has the abdominal hairbands more distinct and regular and the pubescence of first hind tarsal joint instead of being entirely dark is about evenly divided between darkbrown and whitish.
7.
Centris Hoffmannseggiae Ckll.
Centris Hoffmaimseggice Cockerell Ibid. 395 rf uoii 
 1897.
Centris lanosa Cockerell not Cresson.
Ibid. 397  non cT 1897.
New Mexico  Mesilla Vcilley.
To my mind Mr. Cockerell has confused the sexes of Hoffmannseggiae and lanosa judging from his descriptions.
Cotypes of Hoffmannseggice 9 differ at once from the described male in their bare abdomen beyond the first segment the d having the abdomen pubescent on all the segments es2ecialy the two first.
Now the 
lanosa described by Cockerell has  the second abdominal segment as well as the first delicately pruinose.
In the male lanosa the first segment only is pruinose.
8.
Centris Cockerellii n. n. Centris Hoffmannseggice Cockerell Ibid. 395 9 non  1897.
New Mexico Mesilla Valley.
I propose this name for the species described as the female of Hoffmannseggice which is apparently distinct from the latter.
9.
Centris atriventris n. sp.
.
 Black head in front and cheeks with grayish pubescence that on vertex pale fulvous clypeus yellow broader than long strongly punctux'ed but smooth down middle  labrum yellow semilunate strongly punctured its apex broadly and roundly slightly emarginate  flagellum testaceous beneath from apex of first joint the latter distinctly shorter than the four following joints scape entirely dark  thorax above Avith pale fulvous pubescence that on sides slightly paler beneath the pubescence is black or blackish brown legs reddishbrown the pubescence of the anterior ones fuscous brown with that on tarsi black  on the other legs it is black except on the medial tibine outwardly where it is rather similar to that of the fore legs  abdomen shining black the first segment anteriorly with pale pubescence  the apex of first and the second to fourth dorsal segments quite nude  the apex of fifth dorsal fringed with dark hairs second to fourth ventrals fringed apically and clothed medially with long black hairs sixth segment with black hairs the pygidium triangular with a triangular raised area at base which sends out a carina from its apex which reaches nearly to tip of pygidium wings subhyaline.
Length 12 mm.
cJ  Similar to 
in coloration but with the mandibles within toward the base the inner orbits as high as insertion of antennae and a line on scape yellow  first joint of flagellum not as long as two following united lab rum semicircular not emargiuate daik pubescence of ventral surface of thorax not so evident as in the 
.
Length 12 mm.
Texas.
One female and two male specimens.
A female specimen from lower California agrees in coloration with this species but there is a slight difference in the shape of pygidium.
I am not quite certain that it is the same however as the first abdominal segment is scarcely pubescent 10.
Centris lanosa Cress.
Centris lanosa Cresson Trans.
Am.
Ent.
Soc iv 284 J.
Centris latiosa CocliereU 1. c 397  non 9 1897.
Texas New Mexico Las Cruces The pale patch at base of hind tibise externally is characteristic of this species.
The pubescence of femora varies from brown to pale.
11.
Centris subhyalina n. sp.
9.
 Black including clypeus and labrum head in front and on cheeks with grayish pubescence that on vertex pale fulvous  clypeus strongly punctured with a raised smooth line down centre the fore margin narrowly reddishtestaceous labrum semicircular strongly punctured its outer margin narrowly reddishtestaceous flagellum obscurely testaceous beneath from apex of second joint  the latter a little longer than the following three joints united scape not pale thorax with pale fulvous pubescence above extending half way on sides where it is met by blackbrown pubescence which clothes the under surface pubescence of middle segment and first segment of abdomen paler legs dark red or black the pubescence of four posteriors entirely black that of the anteriors brownish abdomen shining black the apex of first and the second to fourth dorsals bare  fifth dorsal as Avell as the second to fifth ventrals fringed with black hairs sixth segment with darkbrown pubescence the pygidium almost as in atriventris  wings subhyaline.
Length 12 mm.
Texas.
Three specimens.
This species is apparently quite close to C. mexicana Smith but in that species the Avings are described as fuscous.
C. subhyalina may subsequently prove to be the female of C. lanosa Cress.
Description of a New Species of Centris from the Island op Trinidad W. I. Centris xylocopoides n. sp.
.
 Deep black clothed throughout with black pubescence space between eye and mandible reddish eyes slightly diverging above clypeus medially flattened and impunctate otherwise strongly punctured  labrum strongly punctured covered with long hairs acuminate apically second joint of flagellum about as long as the third fourth fifth and half of sixth joints united a small bare spot on dorsulum medially and at base of scutellum  abdomen above only pubescent on apical segments beneath on all segments medially and apical margins of segments 46  pygidium triangular somewhat depressed with a similarly shaped raised area basally  wings black variegated with brilliant shades of blue green and purple.
Length 28 mm.
Island of Trinidad West Indies.
November 1892.
Two specimens.
The immense size and entirely black color remind one of the species of Xylocopa.
