ON THE ZOOLOGICAL POSITION OF Partula AND Achatinella
BY HEXRY A. PILSBRY SC.
D. The classification of the land snails has an attraction for the systematic or morphological malacologist disproportionate to the rank of the group and once entered upon the phylogenetic problems presented for solution are surpassed in interest by those of no other group unless it be the Chitons.
The great amount of work along sound lines that has been done since the days of Beck and Held has merely opened the mine as it were and the wealth in sight is more abundanc than our generation can develop.
In dealing with Partula and Achatinella it appears that nothing yet written upon their structuxe and its meaning goes to the root of the matter.
Fischer in his admirable Manuel subordinates PaHula to Bulimulus as a subgenus and places the family Achat'inellklce between the Stenogijridce and the Suecineidce.
Kobelt considers Partula to be closely alhed to Placostylus a genus of the Bullmulidce  and others have held a like opinion.
Semper grouped Partula with Placostijlu. but in his posthumous appendix on the pulmonate kidney he recognizes that it has the basommatophorous arrangement of kidney and ureter p. 70.
It is generally agreed that the primary division of the Stylommatophores into Monotremata and Ditremata is a just one though the fact expressed in the names has a significance quite secondary to that of the diverse modification of the pallial organs in the two groups.
From the Monotremata arose a lateral line profoundly modified in the structure of the lung etc. the Athoracophoridce or Janel I have been assisted in the examination of these snails by Mr. E. G. Vanatta.
 Syst.
Conchyl.
Cabinet edit.
2 Placostylus p. 5 1891.
'I used the more expressive term I'eleirematn in my Catalogue of American Land Shells but as stability is better thau meaning in nomenclature the innovation was probably unwise.
lidce.
Our knowedge of the morphology of this branch is largely due to Dr. Ludwig Plate who proposes the term Tracheopulmonata for the JanelUdce the remainder of the monotremate group taking that of Vasopuhnonata.
The two groups Ditremata and Tracheopulmonata are strongly specialized and far from the main line of descent of the mass of the Stylommatophores.
The group of Vasopulmonata comprising a vast majority of the irbreathing snails has been divided into families by characters of the jaw teeth shell caudal pore scarcely any two authors agreeing in the number or limits of the families so established.
No one can review the classifications given by various autiiors during the past decade without being impressed by the chaotic condition of the subject.
This is largely due to the use of external or peripheral organs in taxonomy  the jaw teeth caudal pore and form of the shell being directly acted upon by external conditions or food consequently changing rapidly and subject to deceptive convergent development.
The truly primary divisions of the Vasopulmonata rest upon the modifications of the pallial region.
In one series of forms of which BuUminiis Partala and Achatinella are prominent members the ureter passes directly forward from the kidney toward the anterior margin of the lung.
This is also as is well known the condition of these organs in the Basommatophora or freshwater Pulmonata which have been generally and I believe rightly considered ancestral to the Stilommatophora.
 Compare Partula PI.
XVII fig.
8 and Limnoia PI.
XVII fig.
2.
This direct form of kidney and ureter together with various other characters indicates in my opinion that Partula and its fellows with a direct ureter are members of an ancient and ancestral group lying at the very base of the vasopulmonate phylum.
This group I propose to call Orthurethra
In all the other groups of Vasopulmonata the position of the ureter relative to other pallial organs has been changed though least in the Succineidcc and certain maeroogonous genera.
From the apex of the kidney the ureter is abruptly reflexed passing to the posterior end of the lungcavity.
Thence an open groove or  Compare Semper Beisen im Archip.
Phil. Ill zweites Erganzungslieft p. 70. a closed tube continues across to the last fold of the gut which it follows forward to the mantleedge.
This continuation of the ureter is morphologically merely a narrow strip of the aerating surface of the lung set apart by a slight ridge to form a canal or in more advanced forms a tube.
It has been aptly called the secondary ureter or the gut ureter  Darmharnleiter of German anatomists.
The snails having this sigmoid form of ureter PI.
XVII fig.
6 I propose to segregate as a group Sigmiirethra taxonomically standing equal in rank to its parent group the Orthurethra
The open or closed condition of the secondary ureter is a matter of very little importance.
The backward flexure  of the primary or true ureter is the significant character indicating as it does a total change in the route by which the  urine  is 'Conducted from the system.
The group Orthurethraonsists so far as I know of some four  or five families not separated by characters of great imjiortaiice.
The Sigmurethra on the other hand contains numerous family .groups of very unequal relationships irier se.
The further division of the group is based upon characters of the foot lung central nervous system radula etc. the main outlines or skeleton of the system being about as follows I.
Margin of the foot defined by grooves etc.
 .
Aulacopoda.
.II.
No pedal grooves.
A.
None of the teeth of the aculeate or thorn like type jaw present distinct Holopoia.
B.
All of the teeth aculeate thornshaped jaw often obsolete.
Carnivorous.
a. Cerebral ganglia concentrated in close contact Agnathomorpha.
5.
Cerebral ganglia separated a rather long commissure connecting them Agnatha.
 Full discussion of the divisions of Sigmurethra is not practicable in this place as it will require extensive illustration.
Moreover material in some familes is still eluding me I have therefore not attempted a paitial treatment but merely give a synopsis of results.
564 1900The system of Vasopuhnonata may then be roughly tabulated thus  Holopoda.
Agnathomorpha.
J Agnatba.
Aalacopoda.
r Partulidse.
r Subdivisions if Pupidje.
Ortburetbra.
 any.
to be de 
Valloniidae.
 termined.
Cochlicopidse.
I Acbatinellidse.
Hetemretbra.
Elasmognatba.
Succineidse.
Acavidse.
Helicidse.
Bulimulidse.
Vasopulmonata.
' noiopoiui.
 xjrocoptidse.
Clausiliidae.
Achatiaidae.
Glandinidae.
Rhytididaj.
StreptaxidiE.
Circinariidne.
Sigmuretbra.
J I Agnatba.
Testacellidae.
Zonitidfe.
Limacidse.
Endodontidae.
Arionidae.
Pliilomycidte.
Probably there are some other groups of family value though of course no anatomist could multiply families with the liberal hand of some iecent writers.
The family Aeavidce is here understood to be equivalent to the Acavime of my arrangement of Helices with the addition of Strophocheilu which forms a remarkable and archaic subfamily.
The Helicidce is not the group so called by Fischer but stands as defined in Man.
Conch.
2 ix mx the Macroogona.
Circinariidfe is a new name for Selenitidct Selenites being preoccupied.
I have elsewhere discussed the families of Anlacopoda.
The Ut'ocoptidce  Cijl'mdrelUdte and Piipidiv have been sadly mixed by Fischer the former family has been the subject of a paper by Mr. Vanatta and myself.
 Other families need no special remark.
The foregoing is sufficient to show tlie general position in the system of Achatlnella and Partula which may now be considered in more detail.
What follows is the joint work of Mr. E. G. Vanatta and myself.
Partula rosea Broil.
The specimens dissected were collected by Andrew Garrett.
Pallial organs PI.
XVII fig.
8.
 The pulmonary vein is the  Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 189S p. 24.
only bloodvessel visible on tbe lung wall the general suiface being smooth densely peppered with white specks in parallel liues the heart is placed obliquely against the kidney fig.
8 k. which is hort and triangular.
From the apex of tne kidney arises the ureter fig.
8 u.
 which runs directly forward opening by a lateral pore at its end which is remote from the mantle edge.
Digestive system.
 The' jaw and teeth have been described by Binney and others.
There is a fusiform crop and moderately dilated stomach fig.
8.
Genitalia PI.
XVII fig.
1.
 The penis is quite stout with terminal retractor and divided internally into a lower coarsely wrinkled portion and an upper densely granulose and coarsely plicate portion.
The vas deferens opens above a papilla at about the lower third of the granulose part.
The vas deferens is bound to the penis to the vagina and basal portion of the spermatheca the adnate portion being shown by dotted lines in fig.
1  it is then free as far as the upper portion of the oviduct where it is again shortly adnate.
The ovisperm duct is strongly knotted as usual.
The basal portion or duct of the spei'matheca is much swollen the upper part being conspicuously smaller and tapering.
There is an egg in the oviduct in the preparation figured.
Free muscles PI.
XVII fig.
4  The buccal retractor is free to its proximal insertion.
At about the middle of its length the left ocular and tentacular retractor joins it and a little further out the anterior foot retractors branch off.
The broad posterior pedal or tail retractor is united far forward Avitli the right ocular and tentacular retractor which gives off a group of anterior pedal retractors fig.
4.
The right ocular retractor passes between cJ and 9 branches of the genitalia.
This muscle system differs from that of Achatinella chiefly in the union of the right ocular retractor with the tail retractor.
In the latter genus both ocular retractors are free.
Achatinella dolei Baldwin.
The specimens dissected were received from Mr. D. D. Baldwin.
Pallial organs PI.
XVII fig.
3.
 The broad pulmonary vein is the only conspicuous bloodvessel.
The surface of the lung is heavily pigmented and intensely black except anteriorly near the rectum where it is paler.
It is traversed by ver' fine veins transverse to the pulmonary vein.
The heart lies parallel with the 37 kidney.
The anterior end of the pericardium and the adjacent surface of the kidney are blotched and dotted with black pigment.
The kidney is bulbous or ovate passing into a wide palecolored ureter which runs directly forward nearly to the anterior edge of the mantle.
From its apex a narrow ridge or thread runs backward a short distance on the side toward the rectum the space between this thread and the ureter having the pigment arranged in oblique stride.
Digestive system PI.
XVII fig.
3.
 The jaw and teeth of Achatinella have frequently been figured and need not be described here.
The salivary glands s.g. and fig.
3a are united above and below the oesophagus forming a complete ring.
The oesophagus is long and unusually slender not dilated into a crop.
The stomach is much lengthened curved at the end.
Intestine unusually long especially the fourth fold fig.
3 on the right side.
Genitalia PI.
XVII fig.
7.
 The external orifice is on the left side as usual in sinistral species.
The penis is moderate in length cylindrical with terminal retractor muscle and vas deferens.
From the middle of its length arises a very long vermiform appendix ap.
 which is irregularly coiled and between the lower third and fourth of its length is conspicuously constricted for a short distance.
Near the base of the appendix a branch of the retractor muscle is inserted passing to the apex of the penis.
The lumen of the penis is narrowed above by two large pdasters at the apical end of which the vas deferens enters.
The orifice communicating with the cavity of the appendix is situated at the lower end of one of the pilasters.
The vas deferens is completely free from the other organs from its lower insertion to the base of the albumen gland where it becomes adnate.
The vagina is quite short.
The spermatheca is small and ovat upon a very long slender duct and is imbedded in the albumen gland but shown removed therefrom in the figure.
There is a long free oviduct and a sacculated uterus much distended by the young contained in the individual figured.
The albumen gland is divided into slender cicca fig.
la clustered in a dense mass.
Free muscles PL XVII fig.
5.
 The retractor muscles of the tentacles are free from the tail retractor anrt both divide into three branches ocular tentacular and anterior pedal at about the middie of their length.
The left ocular baud passes between cT and 
branches of the genitalia.
The buccal retractor pLr.
unites with the left tentacular band at about the posterior fourth of the latter  it is deeply bifurcate anteriorly.
The retractor of the tail f.. 
is normal except in its freedom from both tentacular bands.
While Achatinella is obviously allied to Partula by the direct ureter and plain aerating surface of the lung it differs so conspicuously in other characters that no very close relationship can be admitted.
The ureter in Achatinella approaches nearer to the anterior edge of the mantle and has a terminal ridge apparently homologous with that of Limncea.
The digestive system is lengthened though of the ordinary fourfolded type.
The genital system approaches that of Bidiminus in the appendix of the penis but is peculiar in the freedom of the vas deferens from the oviduct.
In this peculiarity however PaHula shares to a great extent the adhesions being superficial.
The unique structure 'of the albumen gland and its envelopment of the spermatheca are more aberrant cha'acters.
Usually a longstalked spermatheca is caught with the gut by the cephalic branch of the aorta and lies near the heart separated irom the albumen gland.
The family Achatinelliche is apparently a group of great antiquity the archaic pallial organs and male genitalia being associated with peculiarly specialized female reproductive organs.
EXPLANATION OF PLATE XVII.
Fig.
1.
Partula rosea.
Genitalia.
Fig.
2.
Limncea stagnalis.
Pallial region and digestive tract.
Fig.
3.
Achatinella dolei.
Pallial region and digestive tract.
Fig.
3a.
Acliatinella dolei.
Lateral view of salivary gland.
Fig.
4.
Partula rosea.
Free retractor muscles dorsal aspect.
Fig.
5.
Achatinella dolei.
Free retractor muscles dorsal aspect.
Fig.
6.
Rumina decollata.
Pallial region and digestive tract.
Fig.
7.
Achatinella dolei.
Genitalia.
Fig.
7o.
Achatinella dolei.
jNIore enlarged tubules of the albumen gland.
Fig.
8.
Partula rosea.
Pallial region ap. appendix k. kidney l.o.r. left ocular retractor l.t.r. left tentacular retractor xh. pharynx s.g. salivary gland sp. spermatheca s.u. secondary ureter t r. tail retractor u. ureter.
