NEW LAND MOLLUSKS OF THE JAPANESE EMPIRE.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY'.
Alycaeus tanegasliimae n. sp.
Shell similar in shape to A. harimensis
Pale brown the early whorls orangered or uniform whitishcorneous.
Whorls 3 the last slowly descending moderately constricted then swollen again.
Sculpture of crowded ribstrise finer at the constriction no spiral strire.
Aperture very oblique circular the peristome double.
Operculum nearly smooth the edges of the whorls slightly projecting.
Alt 1.7. diam.
3 mm.
Tanegashima Osumi Mr. Y. Hirase No.
723.
Closely related to A. harimensisbut that is a much larger species.
Carychium pessimum n. sp.
Shell very minute corneouswhite fusiformconic minutely striate.
 AVhorls 4f .
convex.
Aperture ovate the peristome well expanded very much thickened within with a strong toothlike prominence just above the middle of the outer lip marked by a groove behind the lip.
Columella truncate below the coluraellar lamella small receding.
Length 1.8 mm.
Tanegashima Osumi Mr. Y. Hirase No.
729.
This species is smaller and less conically tapering than C. noduliferum Reinh.
The columellar lamella is smaller much less prominent than in either C. noduliferum or C. cymatoplax
Macrochlamys dulcis n. sp.
Shell depressed brownish yellow rather transparent narrowly perforate.
Surface brilliantly glossy weakly marked by growthlines and under a strong lens seen to be engraved with excessively fine crowded spiral Hues which are obsolete on the upper and peripheral portions of the last whorl.
Spire a little convex narrow.
Whorls 4 sldwly widening the last very wide concave at the suture rouuded peripherally and less so beneath narrowly impressed around the umbilical perforation.
Aperture large but slightly oblique very broadly lunate peristome simple a little retracted at the upper insertion basal margin straightened the coluraellar margin short subvertical dilated.
Ait.
6 greater diara.
11 lesser 10 mm.
Nachi Pvov.
Kii Mr. Y. Hirase No.
785.
Well marked by the narrow perforation small spire sculpture and the shape of the aperture.
M. perfmgills Pils.
of Kunchan Okinawa is a closely related species differing in the much larger size smaller perforation etc.
Eulota Plectotropis pannosa n sp.
Shell similar to trochula A.
Ad.
in general shape light brown somewdiat translucent.
Surface slightly shining sculptured with very minute spiral strise under sparsely scaly oblique cuticular striae with at the periphery a long ragged fringe of flattened filaments triangular at their bases.
Spire lowconic.
Whorls slightly over 6 slowly and regularly increasing a little convex acutely carinate peripherally convex beneath being elevated and subangular around the deep broadly open umbilicus the last whorl very slightly descending in front.
Aperture oblique the peristome hardly expanded above thickened within and expanded and somewhat reflexed below.
Alt.
8J diam.
exclusive of fringe 17 mm.
 width of umbilicus from suture to suture 4 mm.
Atsumi Prov.
Uzen Mr. Y. Hirase No.
773.
This secies differs from E. trochula in being much more angular around the umbilicus trochula being rounded there.
E. vulgivaga is a more solid shell with the umbilicus wider and the base more convex.
Eulota Plectotropis deflexa n. sp.
Shell small biconvex widely and openly umbilicate brown.
Surface dull sculptured with subobsolete fine spiral stride and slight spaced growthwrinkles bearing a few cuticular threads and scales above more numerous short scales beneath with a peripheral fringe of flattened ragged filaments.
Spire lowconic.
Whorls 5 the first  convex following whorls less so the last whorl acutely carinate descending near the aperture for some distance and rather deeply below the keel the base convex subangular around the umbilicus.
Aperture oblique rounded the peristome arcuate unexpanded and thin above narrowly expanded and subreflexed below the periphery the margins approaching separated by the nearly straight parietal margin which forms less than onefourth the total circumference of the peristome.
Alt.
5.5 diam.
10.8 mm.
 width of umbilicus from suture to suture 3 mm.
Tobishima Prov.
Ugo Mr. Y. Hirase No.
774.
This species is related to Eulota PlectotrojiLs cenmla Gude but it is smaller with fewer whorls the last descending in front and with a developed though usually incomplete peripheral fringe.
E. defiexa is also less conic above and the nepionic 1 whorls project somewhat.
Eulota .ffigista aperta var.
cavata ov.
Larger and more elevated than aperta with 6J to 6f whorls the umbilicus larger more widely open.
Aperture more oblique the basal margin more deeply arcuate.
Alt.
9 diam.
16 width of umbilicus 6 mm.
Alt.
8 diam.
17 width of umbilicus 6h mm.
Tomisato Kii Mr. Y. Hirase No.
761.
This form approaches E. jejista kobensis somewhat but that is still more open beneath with the aperture more elliptic.
Some specimens from Gojo Yamato Mr. Hirase's No.
567 are to some extent intermediate between aperta and cavata in shape as they are in geographic position.
Trishoplita Hilgendorfi var.
chikubashimae nov.
Shell smaller and thinner than hUgendorJi from the top of Mt.
Ibuki Omi very densely and minutely but subobsoletely granulosc angular at the periphery in front the umbilicus smaller.
Spire conic whorls 5 in small 5in large specimens.
Aperture roundedlunate the peristome thin expanded.
All.
7 diam.
10 mm.
Alt.
7 diam.
9J mm.
Alt.
6 diam.
8 mm.
Chikubashima an island in Lake Biwa Mr. Y. Hirase No.
746.
In describing T. Hilgendorfj var.
tennis in these Proceedings p. 547 I neglected to state that wliile Hilgendorfi occurs at the top of Mt.
Ibuki the var.
tenuis is found in a valley below.
' Trishoplita tosana var.
anozona nov.
Shell thin and glossy like tosana and resembling that species in shape and the size of the umbilicus but differing from it in wanting a pale zone below the suture.
It has a narrower umbilicus than T. Hilgendorfi var.
tenuis.
Alt.
8 diam.
13 ram.
Alt 7 diam.
11ram.
Akasaka Mino Mr. Y Hirase No.
7516.
Still another form of this terrible genus which I will call T. tosana var.
rufa occurs at Kashiraa Harima.
It resembles anozona but is dull russetcolored densely striate spirally beneath subangular at the periphery in front.
Whorls 5i to 5' the spire conic.
Alt 8 diam.
11 ram.
Chloritis Hirasei n. ip.
Shell openly umbilicate depressed thin and fragile flattened above the earher whorls a trifle sunken pale brown.
Surface lustreless densely beset with delicate hairs arranged in oblique sweeps.
Whorls 4 the last wide rounded at the periphery and beneath hardly descending in front.
Aperture lunate the peristome thin a little expanded somewhat dilated at the columellar insertion.
Alt.
8 greatest diara.
17 width of umbilicus 2f mm.
Kurozu Prov.
Kii Mr. Y. Hirase No.
786.
This species is larger and flatter than C. fmgilis Gude with more densely placed hairs and a much wider umbilicus.
C. oscitans V.
Mart. a form of which Mr. Hirase sends from Mikuriya Prov Suruoa is a smaller almost imperforate species the most northern of its genus.
No exact locality has hitherto been reported for von Marten's species.
C. eucharistus Pils. of Oshima also brought to light by Mr. Hirase is the finest Chloritis of the Japanese Empire these four species being all known from Japan to this time.
Ganesella tanegashimae var.
dulcis n. var.
Similar to the type except in color the shell being of a very dark and beautiful chestnut color with a blackish peripheral band.
The interior is purple Avith a bluish gleam and the lip purple.
Alt.
18 diam.
26 mm.
Tanegashima.
Only two living specimens of this superb variety Avere taken.
Dead shells are reddish rather than chestnut.
Ganesella selasia n. sp.
Shell umbilicate trochiform brovvu or corneousbrown very glossy striatulate finely malleate in places.
Spire conic whorls of convex slowly inci'easiug the last depressed subangular at the periphery somewhat convex below slightly descending in front narrowly constricted behind the lip.
Aperture oblique somewhat triangular the peristome thin arcuate and narrowly expanded above and outwardly the basal margin straight or sinuous reflexed thickened like a low wide tooth within columellar margin short dilated.
Alt.
11 diam.
16 Avidth of umbilicus 1 mm.
Alt.
llj diam.
15 width of umbilicus 11 mm.
Nachi Prov.
Kii Mr. Y. Hirase No.
788.
The glossy surface narrow whorls and open umbilicus separate this from all forms of G.
japonica.
' Ganesella cristata n. sp.
Shell imperforate globosetrochiform pale russet with a faint broAvn line at the periphery a pale line below it.
Surface very obsoletely and indistinctly papillose somewhat dull.
Spire a little convexly conic.
Whorls 5f to 6 con'ex the last rounded peripherally.
Abruptly descending in front expanding in a conspicuous ridge or crest and then strongly contracted behind the lip.
Aperture oblique someAvhat triangular the upper and outer margins expanded thickened within basal margin straightened reflexed indistinctly toothed or thickened Avithin columellar margin short abruptly expanded over and covering the umbilicus.
Alt.
14 diam.
16 mm.
Alt.
11 diam.
15 mm.
Nachi Prov.
Kii Mr. Y. Hirase No.
783.
The absence of spiral lines on the slightly dull silken surface the closure of the umbilicus and the crest behind the lip all mark this as a species distinct from the G. japonica series.
The smaller specimens are obtusely subangular in front.
Ganesella japonica var.
granulosa ov.
In this race the shell is trochiform umbih'cate strongly carinate at the periphery irregularly wrinklestriate minutely very obsoletely granulose with some faint spiral lines or none.
It is light brown not corneous or corneousbrown as in japonica.
Two forms have been received a larger and smaller.
Alt.
14 diam.
19 mm.
large form No.
5136 of Mr. Hirase's Coll..
Alt.
13 diam.
14 mm.
small form.
No.
513c of Mr. Hirase's Coll..
Alt.
11 diam.
15 mm small form.
No.
513c of Mr. Hirase's Coll..
Ibuki Mountain Prov.
Omi.
The small form occurs also at Kyoto.
Ganesella japonica var.
carinata Pilsbry and A. Gulick nov.
This is a large very strongly carinate shell openly umbilicate yellowishcorneous and finely striate spirally like G. japonivd.
Whorls 5J to nearly 6.
Alt.
18 diam.
26 mm.
Alt.
16 diam.
23 mm.
Ibuki Omi Mr. Y. Hirase No.
513a.
Types No.
79202 Coll.
A. N. S. P. This is apparently the Helix patnielis Ad. H. tabuensis Ancey of authors but after a careful examination of the evidence a year or two ago Mr. Gulick and I concluded that it could not be identical with the form described by Adams and renamed by Ancey.
It is apparently an independent local mountain race of G. japonica.
The sculpture paler color and less trochiform shape separate it from the large form of G. japonica granulosa which is apparently a parallel modification of the papillose or granular type of the G. japonica stock.
