BIRDS OF THE SISKIYOU MOUNTAINS CALIFORNIA A PROBLEM IN DISTRIBUTION.
BY MALCOLM P. ANDERSON AND JOSEPH GRINNELL.
The birds of the following list were taken or observed by Malcolm P. Anderson in the extreme northwestern part of California between September 6 1901 and March 10 1902.
His fieldnotes form the basis of the present paper while Joseph Grinnell is responsible for the critical remarks on specimens and distribution.
The region explored occupies the northwestern corner of Siskiyou county close to the Oregon boundary.
Most of the observations pertain to the region of Horse and Seiad creeks which head in the Siskiyou range.
Horse creek flows into the Klamath river from the north about four miles below the old mining camp called Oak Bar and about nine miles above the mouth of Scott river.
Seiad creek joins the Klamath near Seiad Post Office which is eleven miles below Scott river and therefore twenty miles from Horse creek.
Although these two streams empty so far apart they head near together there being but one ridge between the main branch of each.
Oak Bar is at an approximate altitude of 2800 feet while the crest of the Siskiyou Mountains some seventeen miles north of the Klamath river is 7000 feet in elevation.
The highest points of the range in the neighborhood of Horse creek approach 8000 feet.
West of Seiad creek the country changes abruptly becoming far rougher with the peaks in some instances rising higher.
Near the mouths of both Horse and Seiad creeks the canyons expand into valleys which are occupied ly a few farmerminers.
The valley of Seiad creek is much the larger and is known as Seiad Valley.
After the first of November camp was made about ten miles up Horse creek at a little farm called Grater's ranch.
The region under consideration is covered with an open forest extending from the Klamath up to within a few hundred feet of the summit of the range.
Here the trees become scattering and in places give way to large stretches of chaparral with here and there meadows in which grass grows waist high unless disturbed by cattle.
The Life Zones represented in the region seem to be  Transition which extends from the Klamath up to about the 6000foot contour line and Canadian which caps the range with perhaps dilute Hudsonian in places.
The following trees identified will give a better idea of the conditions among which the birds were found  Trees of the Transition Zone.
Pseudotsuga tnua�onata
Douglas Spruce.
This is the most conspicuous tree of the region.
On Horse creek it is found from the Klamath up to an altitude of 5500 to 6000 feet.
Libocednis deciirrens.
Incense Cedar.
This was also a very common tree from the Ivlamath up to about 5000 feet.
Pinus lamhertiana
Sugar Pine.
This is the largest tree of the region and is common along the summits of White Cloud and Johnny O'Neil ridges from the Klamath up.
It is most abundant and of greatest size in the basin of Salt creek about a mile from Grater's.
Not observed above 4500 feet.
Pinus ponderosa
Yellow Pine.
Seen from the Klamath up to about 4000 feet frequently of large size.
Pinus attenuata
Scrub Pine.
This tree grows commonly in the upper part of Seiad Valley and was noticed along Seiad creek up to 4000 feet.
Quercus calif ornicus.
Black Oak.
Though there are several species of oaks in the region the only one that is very conspicuous is the California black oak.
It is found from the KJamath to an elevation of about 4000 feet.
In several places it forms groves of considerable size to the exclusion of coniferous trees.
Arbutus menziesi
Madrone.
Seen frequently among the oaks up to their limit Alnus sp.
A species of alder grows along all the streams.
Acer macrophyllum
Big Leaf Maple.
Observed along streams but limits not noted. '
' Trees of the Canadian Zone.
Abies magnifica shastensis
Shasta Fir.
This tree mixes with the following in the upper edge of Transition and extends throughout the Canadian zone.
Abies concolor lowiana
A fir probably referable to this form is found in the lower portion of Canadian and higher Transition where it occurs in company with the Douglas spruce.
In the canyon of Horse creek it was seen down to an altitude of 3100 feet.
Pinus monticola
Mountain Pine.
This tree is frequent in the Canadian zone to which it seems restricted.
Hudson AN Zone.
Tsuga mertensiana
Black Alpine Hemlock.
Hemlocks grow in abundance near the head of the east fork of Horse creek and elsewhere along the range in cool places.
During a tramp along the crest this tree was seen repeatedly.
Notes on the Birds of the Region.
Ardea herodias herodias
Great Blue Heron.
On January 25 a great blue heron was seen on Seiad creek about four miles above the mouth.
Again on March 2 two herons were observed on the Klamath river between Oak Bar and Walker Post Office.
Oreortyx pictus plumiferus
Mountain Partricige.
On September 12 a small boy brought in two cjuail which had been shot near the house on Grater's Ranch.
Subsequently the species was detected only once  a flock of six or eight were seen in Seaid Valley on December 20.
The two September birds were preserved and in spite of extremely abraded plumage are plainly referable to plumiferus and not pictus as one might expect.
One of the specimens is adult and shows a few new feathers appearing on the scapulars breast and sides but there is no evidence of approach toward the brownnecked humid coast form.
This is an interesting example of the westward extension of a Sierra Nevadan form.
Bonasa umbellus sabinei Oroyon Ruffed Grouse.
The people of the Siskiyou state that this lird is invariably seen on the ground or on fallen logs.
The observations of the past winter go to confirm this for all the grouse seen were upon the ground or flying near it and in all cases were in groves of small Douglas spruce such as grow near or in the canyon bottoms.
There is another grouse known to the inhabitants of this region.
This lird is said to le found mainly in trees and is doubtless the sooty grouse Dendragapus obscurus fuliginosus.
In the latter part of Februarand early in IMarch the drumming of what was thought to be this latter species was heard but not even a glimpse was obtained of the performer.
Foiu' specimens of the Oregon ruffed grouse were preserved and the species may be considered fairly common through the winter in this region.
This bird has been found previously inCaUfornia only in the redwood forests in the vicinity of Humboldt Bay so that the present record extends its known range considerably to the eastward.
Douglas in the original description of his Tetrao Sabini gives its range as from Cape Mendocino north etc.
But recent records up to the present indicate ordinarily a dense forest habitat.
Buteo borealis calurus.
Western Redtailed Hawk.
An immature male redtail was shbt on October 11 on the very summit of the Siskiyou where the Oregon trail crosses.
Falco sparverius phalsena.
Western Sparrow Hawk.
One was observed on March 2 between Oak Bar and Walker on the Klamath.
Ceryle alcyou.
Belted Kingfisher.
A single individual was observed flying up Horse creek on January 1 6.
Dryobates villosus harrisi.
Harris Woodpecker.
This bird is very common in the groves of black oak which are located here and there on the lower parts of the Siskiyou range.
It is also found in the coniferous forests though in smaller numbers.
From October 24 to February 15 fifteen specimens were taken.
These are variously intermediate in coloration between hyloscopus and harrisi but average nearest the latter.
Five of the birds have all the white areas strongly suffused with smokegray or brown nearly but not quite as deeply as in specimens from western Oregon and Washington.
Four have all the areas practically pure white while the other six are fairly intermediate between these two types.
The whole fifteen present an uninterrupted series from the whitest to the dingiest.
The usual size of all the specimens however is that of harrisi that is decidedly larger than the whitebreasted hyloscopus which occupies nearly the whole of California in favorable localities outside of the extreme northern humid coast belt.
Dryobates pubescens gairdneri.
Gairdner Woodpecker.
The Gairdner woodpecker is usually to be found in company with the flocks of mountain chickadees which frequent the black oak groves all winter.
The oaks are their favorite working places but they are also to be seen among the pines and spruces.
The six specimens brought home are all quite near gairdneri.
The smokiness of the lower surface is not so intense as in skins from western Oregon but the size especially of the feet is decidedly that of the northwest coast form.
Jan. Gairdneri occurs in California only in the extreme northwestern corner of the State the greater portion west of the Sierras being occupied by D. p. turati.
See Fisher Condor IV May 1902 68.
Xenopicus albolarvatus.
Whiteheaded Woodpecker.
Only three birds of this species were seen in the Siskiyou region.
All were shot from sugar pines in the neighborhood of Salt creek.
They were obtained on October 10 January 10 and February 19 respectively.
These specimens are exactly like the smallbilled Sierra Nevadan birds.
The known range of the species is thus materially extended and here seems to be its westernmost station.
Sphyrapicus varius ruber.
Redbreasted Sapsucker.
This woodpecker was not infrequently seen along Horse and Seiad creeks mostly in the spruce forest at about 3200 feet elevation.
While not the extreme manifestation of ruber the four specimens secured by their large size and dark coloration easily belong under this head.
The white markings of wings and tail are much more restricted than in the Sierra Nevadan daggetti.
Sphyrapicus thyroideus.
Williamson Sapsucker.
A single individual was found on a ridge above camp on December 19.
It was at work in a tall Douglas spruce and continued tapping hghtly until closely approached.
This proved to be a female and is darker colored than Sierran specimens compared with it.
The head is browner while the deeper yellow belly and extreme length of wing point toward a geographical variation perhaps parallel to S. v. ruber.
Ceophloeus pileatus abieticola.
Northern Kleated Woodpecker.
The pileated woodpecker is one of the most conspicuous birds of the region.
Its loud screechhke call can be heard for many hundred yards across the canyons.
Though often seen it is very wary and difficult of approach.
Its favorite resorts seem to be the black oaks but occasional birds are seen to alight in coniferous trees.
One specimen had the stomach distended with large black ants which it was gathering from an oak when shot.
As shown by the following measurements in miUimeters the four specimens procured belong to the large northern race.
There appear to be no significant differences between these and skins from the north Atlantic slope.
Collector's No.
Date.
Wing.
Tail.
Tarsus.
Bill from Nostril.
d 56 9 63 9 141 9 156 Oct. 9 ' 13 Dec. 19  27 238 226 225 226 187 179 175 180 35 36 37 35 41 40 36 38 Melanerpes torquatus.
Lewis Woodpecker.
The first bird noticed on crossing the Klamath and entering Horse creek canyon was the Lewis woodpecker.
The species was then September 6 abundant in oaks bordering the meadows near the mouth of the creek.
On September 13 two specimens were shot from a spruce near Grater's farmhouse.
There were a number of others about at the time but at the report of the gun they made off down the canyon and nothing was afterward seen of the species anywhere in the region.
It probably occurs only as a migrant.
Colaptes cafer saturatior.
Northwestern Flicker.
Flickers were seen in the yellow pine forests on the ridge west of camp all through the fall and early part of winter but they were so excessively shy that none were secured until January 20.
They were always abundant near the mouth of Seiad creek in some open meadows lined with oaks and alders overgrown with wild grapevines.
As compared with specimens from the vicinity of Monterey the type locality of coUaris the three skins from the Siskiyou country show somewhat greater dimensions and also darker colors.
This is especially noticeable on the back which is a decidedly richer brown the ground color being deep Prout brown.
Sayornis saya.
Say Phoebe.
On September 16 a Say phcebe was shot from its perch on the barn at Grater's place.
This was the only bird noted and so is probably represented in the region only as a migrant.
Cyanocitta stelleri carbonacea.
Coast Jay.
This was the only jay detected in the Siskiyou Mountains and was by no means as conspicuous as jays often make themselves.
Only occasionally was one heard scolding in some cluster of spruces or discovered hopping quietly from limb to limb in a black oak.
Eight skins were obtained during the winter and all proved to be quite typical of the humid coast race carbonacea see Fisher Condor lY March 1902 41.
But a female specimen taken at Walker Post Office Siskiyou county March 11 1902 is very different approximating C. s. frontalis though not as pale as the average of southern California birds.
Walker is only about twenty miles due east of Seiad Valley and about fortyfive miles northwest of It.
Shasta.
If this specimen represents the resident race of its locality it furnishes a very interesting example of the possible close invasion of two races toward each other from their original separate centres of differentiation until the area of intergradation may ultimately disappear.
Corvus americanus hesperis.
California Crow.
On October 1 a large flock of crows were noted on a meadow near the mouth of Horse creek.
Later in October a single individual was seen in a meadow at Grater's.
Numbers were observed along the Klamath near Oak Bar toward the middle of March 6th and 11th.
Nucifraga columbiana.
Clarke Nutcracker.
Two individuals were observed on December 29 on the ridge between Horse and Salt creeks.
Mr. Doney a miner of more than ordinary inteUigence and veracity stated that this bird is common on the highest parts of the Siskiyou all through the summer.
This is another indication of the presence of a Hudsonian zone on these mountains.
Carpodacus purpureas californicus.
California Purple Finch.
A male specimen was secured on February 1 on the ridge between Horse and Salt creeks.
The bird was at the top of a large oak singing loudly.
We took the singing as a sign of spring coming but we had severer weather after that than before.
Astragalinus psaltria psaltria.
Arkansas Goldfinch.
Soon after reaching Grater's ranch September 7 these birds were common in a pasture near the house.
But within a few days and before specimens were secured they took their departure.
Junco hyemalis hyemalis.
SlatecoloredJunco.
A single male specimen was shot on January 25 from a black oak in the dooryard at Grater's.
There were other j uncos about at the time but all seemed to be of the Oregon form.
This skin measures wing 78 mm. tail 71.
The tips of the dorsal feathers are shghtly brownish but the bird agrees explicitly with selected northAlaskan and Atlantic coast specimens.
This makes about the twentysecond instance of the occurrence of this form in California.
Junco hyemalis oreganus.
Oregon Junco.
i Junco hyemalis thurberi.
Sierra Junco.
J Juncos seemed to constitute the most common species throughout the Transition of the Siskiyou region.
Not a day passed without numbers being seen.
On and after December 4 when the first snow fell they became very common about camp where they worked continually in the old garden.
Out of sixteen skins brought home six are at a glance recognizable as oreganus they are just like Seattle and Sitka specimens.
Four others are just as typically thurberi when compared with Mt.
Wilson skins while the remaining six are partly immature and are less precisely referable.
It might be surmised that the Oregon 1903.
11 juncos are winter visitants while the thurberi type is the resident form bnt this is pure conjecture.
Melospiza cinerea merrilli.
Merrill Song Sparrow.
Two specimens of this song sparrow were taken on October 30 and December 14 respectively from a tangle of blackberry briers near camp.
These are much paler than morphna and phcea with decidedly blackish streaks both on back and breast thus approaching montana closely.
It seems probable that it is this form that breeds in the region.
Collector's No.
Wing.
Tail.
9 130 9 70 66 65 70 71 Melospiza cinerea morphna.
Rusty Song Sparrow.
A bird of this race was taken on November 6 from the tangle of briers in which the Merrill song sparrows were found.
Another was taken later from a band of sparrows in Seiad Valley.
The first of these No.
78 inclines in paleness of hind neck and back toward merrilli.
The other is nearer phcea in having a sooty streaking.
But the large size in both cases places them rather in the morphna category.
Collector's No.
Wing.
Tail.
d 110 d 78 71 69 76 77 Passerella iliaoa unalaschcensis.
Shumagin Fox Sparrow.
On October 9 two fox sparrows were taken from the same thicket mentioned in connection with the foregoing.
These seem to be nearest unalaschcensis though inclining toward meruloides in brownness of coloration.
They are too small for irisularis.
Making due allowance for wear they are counterparts of summer specimens at hand from Prince William Sound Alaska which is about halfway between the metropolis of meruloides Yakutat Bay and that of unalaschcensis  Aliaska Peninsula.
Piranga ludoviciana.
Western Tanager.
A single specimen was shot from a sugar pine on WhiteCloud ridge on September 12 evidently in migration.
Vireo solitarius cassini.
Cassin Vireo.
The only specimen observed was secured September 12 from some alders bordering a small stream on WhiteCloud ridge doubtless in migration.
Vireo huttoni huttoni.
Hutton Vireo.
Hut ton vireos were found frequenting that part of the Transition zone in which oaks are most numerous but were also often seen feeding in spruces.
They remained throughout the winter in uniform numbers.
There seems to be absohitely no difference between the six Siskiyou skins and a series from the Santa Cruz Mountains and vicinity of Monterey the latter being the type locality of huttoni.
Monterey is in the southern extremity of the humid coast Transition and there has always seemed a doubt as to the existence of a race obscurus in the northern part of the same belt.
S. N. Rhoads in the Auk Vol.
X July 1S93 p. 238 clearly pointed out the untenability of obscurus but no one seemed to pay any attention to his remarks.
As to the existence of a really distinct form on Vancouver Island F. h. insularis Rhoads we have as jet no specimens to indicate it.
Looking at Anthony's description of obscurus we find that he used southern California birds in comparison with his Oregon ones.
Some skins now at hand from Pasadena in moderately worn spring plumage are not so green dorsally and laterally as birds of the same season from the Santa Cruz district.
This is evidently due to the greater rate of fading and abrasion in the arid southern climate for the majority of specimens in fresh fall plumage are indistinguishable and equivalent extremes are to be picked out of both series.
Sixty specimens have been examined in this connection.
Dendroica auduboni.
Audubon Warbler.
A male was shot from a small flock on the west side of WhiteCloud ridge on September 12.
After that none were seen.
Cinclus mexicanus.
American Dipper.
Fairly common from the Klamath up Horse and Seiad creeks to an altitude of 5000 feet.
Five skins were preserved.
Troglodytes hiemalis pacificus.
Western Winter Wren.
This proved to be a common bird of the Siskiyou region where it was almost always to be found in the blackberry tangles along the smaller streams.
Seventeen skins secured serve only to emphasize the geographical uniformity of this race in its long northandsouth range.
CertMa americana zelotes.
Sierra Creeper.
Creepers are comparatively numerous in the region of Horse creek.
They were often seen busily searching about the bases of the Douglas spruce or hurriedly climbing spirally up the trunk of some pine or oak.
The eleven specimens procured do not seem to differ in the least from Sierran birds.
Nor do they look much different from Sitkan skins.
However we have no certified examples of occidentalis which is a supposedly distinct form said to occupy the humid northwest coast belt.
Sitta carolinensis aculeata.
Slenderbilled Nuthatch.
This bird was seen everywhere from the Klamath river to the upper edge of Transition.
It seems to lead the mixed flocks of Parus Regulus etc. with which it is nearly always seen.
Seventeen specimens were obtained.
Sitta canadensis.
Redbreasted Nuthatch.
The Canada nuthatch was far less conspicuous than the preceding species though it was probably no less common.
It also accompanied the mixed flocks of chickadees and kinglets to some extent but seemed to prefer the coniferous trees to the oaks which the slenderbilled nuthatch so largely frequents.
Previous to December 26 no individuals were seen.
The specimen shot on that date was rather high up in Transition and was it seems probable just descending from the Canadian zone.
For the species was shortly afterward common.
Parus gambeli.
Mountain Chiclcadee.
This chickadee was constantly present among both the oaks and coniferous trees throughout Transiton and up into lower Canadian.
The fourteen specimens brought home have on an average smaller bills than a series from the mountains of southern California just as with Xenopicus.
This is the westernmost record for this species.
Parus rufescens rufescens.
Chestnutsided Chickadee.
This bird was almost always found in company with the mountain chickadee forming mixed roving bands.
The series of twentyone specimens is uniform and quite like birds from Sitka and Oregon.
It would be highly important to know whether this species and the last occur together in summer also and breed in the same locality.
Psaltriparus minimus.
California Bush tit.
This was another very common bird in the black oak forests but occurred in the coniferous woods as well.
It was not however observed above the limit of Pinus ponderosa
The ten specimens taken present no differences from corresponding plumages of birds from central and southern California.
Nor are there any characters to discriminate the few specimens we have from Oregon and Washington from those from California.
Judging from the specimens at hand there is little or no evidence of a race californicus.
There is considerable variation in shade of back and pileum due to wear and fading but the fresh fall birds all look alike.
Kegulus satrapa olivaceusWestern Goldencrowned Kinglet.
This bird when observed at all was always in the flocks of chickadees and nuthatches.
Seven specimens all males were secured during the winter.
HylocicMa guttata nana.
Dwarf Hermit Thrush.
On December 20 the only small thrush seen was shot from an alder in Seiad Valley.
This specimen on account of its small size and brown coloration is easily referable to the northern humid coast form nana.
Merula migratoria propinqua.
Western Robin.
Seen occasionally throughout the winter almost always with the varied thrushes.
It ranges from the Klamath river up to the limit of the black oak timber at least.
Ixoreus nsevius naeviusVaried Thrush.
The varied thrush although seen throughout the winter was not common until January when large flocks appeared on the meadows in Seiad Valley.
This valley is almost free from snow.
When the snow left the meadow at Grater's during February numbers of these thrushes appeared there.
At the same time they became common in the oak forests.
Sixteen specimens were preserved.
These average in characters close to the Sitkan form.
Sialia mexicana occidentalis.
Western Bluebird.
A male bluebird was shot from a small flock on WhiteCloud ridge September 12.
After this none were seen until February 9 when a bird appeared near camp.
They soon after became common both in the vicinity of Grater's and in Seiad Valley.
Summary.
The foregoing list is a remarkable one as showing the association of a number of birds not usually found together.
The Siskiyou Mountains are evidently on the narrow line of mergence between the humid coast fauna and the arid Sierran fauna.
Representative species of the two areas are here found in about equal numbers in winter at least as shown by the following comparative table  Humid Coast Fauna.
Arid Sierran Fauna.
Bonasa umbellus sabinei Dryobates viUosus harrisi Dryobates pubescens gairdneri Sphyrapicus varius ruber Colaptes cafer saturatior Cyanocitta stelleri carbonacea Dendragapus obscurus fuliginosus Oreortyx pictus plumiferusXenopicus albolarvatus Sphyrapicus thyroideus Nucifraga columbiana Certhia americana zelotes Junco hyemalis oreganus Melospiza cinerea jnorphna Parus rufescens rufescens.
Junco hyemalis thurberi Melospiza cinerea inerrilli Parus gambeli.
Jn the case of species represented in both areas but by distinct subspecies sometimes it is the humid form that is present and sometimes the arid form in a few cases there are intermediates.
For instance we find the typical coast form of Cyanocitta but the typical arid race of Oreortyx.
And in the case of distinct species as a result of eastward and westward invasion respectively the ranges of the separate representatives here overlap for example Parus rufescens and Parus gambeli.
We find that as a rule two faunae of the same zone are occupied each by a different subspecies of the same species or a different species of the same genus  and that a single genus is seldom represented in one fauna by more than one species.
If it is then it seems to have come through the invasion of one of the congeneric forms from an adjacent fauna as with the two chickadees just mentioned.
This seems to me a strong argument in favor of the theory that isolation either by long distance or intervention of barriers has been an absolutely essential condition to the differentiation of species.
A fauna is a certain assemblage of animals occupying a given uniform area but the proportionate composition in both species and individuals is constantly changing as influenced by neighboring faunae as well as endemic factors.
ON THE TERRESTRIAL VERTEBRATES OF PORTIONS OF SOUTHERN NEW MEXICO AND WESTERN TEXAS.
BY WITMER STONE AND JAMES A. G. REHN.
In the spring and early summer of 1902 Mr. H. L. Viereck and the junior author spent about eleven weeks in the Sacramento Mountain region of southcentral New Mexico.
The expedition was undertaken in the interest of the Academy under the direction of the Board of Curators and quite extensive collections of plants and insects as well as a fair representation of other groups were secured.
The localities visited and represented by specimens in the collections are as follows  Ysleta El Paso county Tex.
Elevation 3664 feet.
A village along the Rio Grande a short distance below El Paso.
April 2d to 4th was spent here and collecting carried on in the cultivated strip between the river and sand hills bosque and also in the latter very unproductive section.
El Paso Tex.
Elevation 37134000 feet.
Collecting was pursued in the foothills of the Franklin Mountains to the north of the city.
March 31st and April 4th to 6th were spent in this vicinity.
Alamogordo Otero county N. M. and vicinity.
Elevation 4320 to 4600 feet.
This section was quite thoroughly examined collecting being carried on by both members from April 7 to May 24 and b Mr. Viereck during several days in the earher part of June.
Alamogordo is situated in the broad San Augustine plain two miles from the foothills of the Sacramento range to which latter almost daily trips were made.
The characteristic vegetation of this desert plain is greasewood or creosote bush Larrea and mesquite Prosopis.
with scattered cactus Opuntia and Spanish bayonet Yucca the latter becoming more abundant toward the foothills.
Dry Canon Otero county N. M. Elevation about 46005000 feet.
This canon being easiest of access from Alamogordo was visited almost daily.
The reptiles insects and plants of this rather circumscribed region were very thoroughly collected.
Alamo Canon Otero county N.M. Elevation about 5.0005.300 feet.
This canon is considerably larger than the foregoing and contains a constant stream of pure water.
It is located about seven miles southeast of Alamogordo and collections were made here April 11 16 and on several other occasions by Mr. Viereck.
Laliiz Canon Otero county N. M. Elevation at mouth about 5000 feet.
This canon is about the size of Alamo Cailon and contains a large stream of discolored alkaline water locally known as the Laluz river.
Laluz Caiion is located seven miles northeast of Alamogordo and extends a great distance into the range a portion of it being occupied by the railroad which reaches the upper slopes of the mountains.
Several days were spent here collecting.
Highrolls Otero county N. M. Elevation about 7000 feet.
This locality is about halfway up the Sacramento range and was visited by Mr. Viereck early in June.
Cloudcroft.
Otero county N. M. Elevation about 9000 feet.
Cloudcroft is located practically on the top of the Sacramentos and collecting was carried on there by Mr. Viereck during the latter part of May and the early part of June.
While the authors are not prepared to enter into a lengthy dissertation on the faunal relations of the localities visited still the general conclusions drawn from an examination of the material collected may prove worthy of record.
Leaving the Texas locahties out of consideration as but little vertebrate material was obtained there we come first to the immediate vicinity of Alamogordo.
This appears to be truly Lower Sonoran or Middle Sonoran as has been proposed the vege tation the most characteristic species of which have been mentioned before as well as the reptiles mammals birds and insects so far as studied being characteristic of this zone.
This fauna and flora seem to extend quite a distance up the bottoms and arroyos torrent beds of the canons while the slopes of the same and the foothills appear to possess more distinctly Upper Sonoran types such as the sotol Dasylirion candlewood Fouqueira and junipers Juniperus.
The pinon Pinus sp.
does not extend so ar down as the juniper and makes its appearance only when Lower Sonoran types have totally disappeared from the arroyos.
In Dr. C. Hart Merriam's latest faunal map of the United States two tongues of the Lower Sonoran are shown to enter New Mexico from the south one along the valley of the Rio Grande and the other along the Pecos.
From a study of the present material it would seem that another Lower Sonoran tongue branches off from the  The evidence on which this division was made does not appear sufficient.
On almost equal grounds we miaht divide tlie Carolinian belt into at least two portions.
2 Rio Grande tract and runs up between the Organ and the Sacramento ranges comprising the San Augustine plain.
Highrolls is situated near the lower border of the Transition zone and possesses few types in common with Alamogordo but shares quite a number with Cloudcroft.
The latter locality is situated in heavy Canadian forests throughout which are interspersed open glades.
The fauna and flora of Cloudcroft are pure Canadian and the surrounding timlDerland is one of the most important sources of lumber in the southwest.
Considerable material other than that collected by the expedition was examined in the preparation of this paper.
In such cases full credit is given to the sources from which these specimens were obtained.
We are however under especial obligations to Mr. Gerrit S. Miller Jr. of the United States National MiLseum Dr. J.
A. Allen of the American Museum of Natural History New York and Dr. C. Hart Merriam Chief of the Biological Survey United States Department of Agriculture for the loan of specimens of mammals.
While concurring in the identifications and statements contained in the following pages the authors would have it understood that Mr. Rehn is responsible for the portion on mammals and Mr. Stone for the birds and reptiles.
MAMMALS.
Sciurus fremonti lyclinuclius n. subsp.
Type No.
11105 Coll.
Acad.
Nat.
Sciences of Philadelphia c
Forks of Ruidoso Lincoln county N. M. August 18 1898.
Collected by C. M. Barber.
Related to S. f. ncomexiccntus Allen but differing in the larger size more rufous coloration and in the much more elongate nasals.
Distr ibid ion.
 This form is at present represented only by material from the White Mountain region but probably occurs also in the Capitan and Sacramento sections.
Color.
 Above dull ferruginous strongest on the median section the color clearer and most intense on the rump where the usual faint blackish vermiculations are almost absent.
Sides above the lateral line pale rufescent with an ochraceous tinge lateral line narrow not very distinctly defined and with many ochraceous hairs intermingled.
Head washed with blackish the orbital ring clear white ears externally ferruginous touched with blackish at the apex which bears a scant pencil.
Fore limbs clear rufescent above the lateral fringe of the feet silvery white.
Hind limits dull ferruginous becoming rufescent on the upper surface of the feet.
Tail above centrally rich ferruginous most intense basally lateral fringe with the basal portion of the hairs black the apical section pale ochraceous the black becoming more extensive toward the apex of the tail and forming an almost clear black bar about 20 mm.
in length the extreme tip being formed by the pale ochraceous tips of the hair.
Lower surface of the tail pale grayish ochraceous the successive black and ochraceous color divisions being marked as above  toward the apex of the tail a trace of the upper color is noticed suffusing the grayish ochraceous portion.
Under surface including the lips chin throat under surface of the limbs and feet whitish pure on the throat mixed elsewhere with the tint of the pale mousecolored under fur.
Skull.
 The skull of S. fremonti hjchnuchus differs from that of S. fremonti neomexicanus in its more elongate form and slender and more attenuate nasals.
The skull of hjchnuchus is comparatively narrower than that of neomexicanus and the zygomatic region appears compressed.
The nasals average 1.7 mm.
longer in lychnuchus than in neomexicanus while they really average narrower in width by .2 mm.
Measurements.
 Flesh dimensions of the type Total length 350 mm.
 length of tail 140 length of hind foot 55.
Average of three specimens flesh measurements  Total length 335 326350  length of tail 140 length of hind foot 53.3 5155.
Average of seven specimens of S. fremonti neomexicanus Total length 321 308330  length of tail 133 127145  length of hind foot 48.5 4552.
The type skull of lychnuchus measures as follows Total length 50 mm.
 basilar length 42 greatest zygomatic width 29 length of nasals 16 width of nasals 8.2.
The average of six skulls of the new form is  Total length 49 4851  basilar length 40.9 4042.2  greatest zygomatic width 27.9 2729 length of nasals 15.7 15.516  width of nasals 7.4 78.2.
Average of four skulls of neomexicanus'' Total length 45.9 43.547.3 length of nasals 14.3 13.715.
The.
two skulls of topotypes of neomexicanus examined by us give the following measurements  Total length 46.7 46.547 basilar length 39.7 3940.5 greatest zygomatic width 27.7 2728.5 length of nasals 14 width of nasals 7.6 7.57.7.
Specimens Examined.
 Four skins from the type locality Rio Ruidoso and Mescalero all in the White Mountains.
One of the skins and three additional skulls were from the collection of the American Museum of Natural History.
2 Allen Bull.
Amer.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist. X p. 291.
' Ibid.
Remarks.
 While no specimens of neomexicanus in summer pelage are available the great difference in color aside from the larger size and distinctive cranial characters lead to the opinion that a very distinct geographic form of the neomexicanus type is represented in this material.
Two topotypes of the latter form from the collection of the Biological Survey were examined in this connection and also four specimens including the type of mogollonensis from the American Museum collection.
No close relationship exists with the latter form which is of a more grizzled and smoky coloration as well as having the skull rather different in character.
Eutamias cinereicollis canipes Bailoy.
1902.
Eiitn7ias cineieicollis canipes Bailey Proc.
Biol.
vSoc.
Wash. XV p. 117 June 2 1902.
Guadalupe Mts. ElPaso county Tex.
The material at hand shows that this form is well distributed over the higher portions of the White Mountains while information from a reliable source gives it as occurring at Cloudcroft.
Material has been examined from the following localities Forks of Ruidoso Rio Ruidoso Mescalero and Hale's Ranch Ruidoso.
Compared with E. cinereicollis Allen this form is readily differentiated by the diagnostic characters given by Bailey  the paler and duller ochraceous tints the white tips to the hair on the upper surface of the tail and b the grayer feet.
One differential character which seems to have been overlooked in the original description is the absence of solid black in the lateral dorsal stripes.
In all the specimens 7 examined these are mixed blackish and rusty while in cinereicollis the centers at least are solid black.
Eutamias quadrivittatus Say.
1823.
Sciurus quadrivittatus Say Long's Expedition to Rocky Mts. II p. 4.5.
.Vt the exit of tlie Arlvansas river from the foothills Colorado.
One specimen from Canoncita above Cleveland Mora county N. M. collected by Emerson Atkins and submitted by Prof. Cockerell is indistinguishable from specimens from Boulder Colo. Citellus spilosoma arens Bailey.
1902.
Spermophilus spilosoma arens Bailev Proc.
Biol.
Soc.
Wash. XV p. 118 June 2 1902.
El Paso Tex.
Three specimens of this form from the vicinity of Alamogordo Otero county N. M. are identical with a series from El Paso and Fort Hancock Tex.
A young specimen from Mesilla N. M. is clearly referable to this form.
Citellus marginatus Bailey.
1902.
Spermophilus spilosoma marginatus Bailev Proc.
Biol.
Soc.
Wash. XV p. lis June 2 1902.
Alpine Brewster county Tex.
Two specimens from Pecos Tex. and vicinity of Alamogordo Otero county N. M. agree perfectly with the description of this form.
The inference drawn from the occurrence of marginatus in communities with arcns is that they represent distinct species the coloration being typical as well as the proportions.
The length of the hind feet appears to be an excellent diagnostic character.
Citellus mexicanus parvidens Mearns.
1896.
Spermophilus tnexicanus parvidens Mearns Preliminary Diagnoses of New Mammals from the Mexican Border of the United States p. 1 March 25 1896.
Fort Clark Kinney county Tex.
Three specimens of this form are included in the series examined all being from Pecos Tex.
Two of the specimens are the property of the Academy the other belonging to the American Museum.
Compared with topotypes the Pecos specimens are seen to be identical and are easily separated from Brownsville specimens which latter appear to represent true mexicanus.
Citellus grammurus Say.
1823.
Sciurxts' grammurus Say Long's Exped.
Rocky Mts. II p. 72.
Arkansas river at its exit from the foothills Colorado.
A specimen from Rio Ruidoso Lincoln county appears to represent the typical form.
Citellus tridecemlineatus pallidus Allen
1877.
Spermophilus tridecemlineatus' var.
pallidus Allen Monogr.
N. Amer.
Rodentia p. 872 August 1877.
Plains of the lower Yellowstone river.
A specimen of the thirteenlined spermophile from Agua Fria Park Colfax county N. M. collected by Emerson Atkins was submitted by Prof. Cockerell.
While by no means true pallidus still it appears to be closer related to this than to any other form.
The condition of the specimen is quite unsatisfactory for conclusive comparison.
Cynomys arizonensis Mearns.
1890.
Cynomys arizonensis Mearns Bull.
Amer.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist. II p. 305 February 21 1890.
Point of mountain near Wilcox Ariz. An adult male of this species from the San Augustine plain or Tularosa Valley near Alamogordo Otero county N. M. appears to be absolutely identical with the Arizona form.
On comparison the skull is found to be identical with representatives of arizonensis from San Luis Springs Mexican boundary determined by Mearns.
The length of head and body considerably exceeds the maximum given in the original description.
This individual was from a small colony of about thirty holes.
Onychomys arcticeps Rhoads.
1898.
Onychomys arcticeps Rhoads Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. p. 194.
May 3 1898.
Clapham Union county N. M. A series of eight specimens from the vicinity of Alamogordo Otero county N. M. appear to be much closer related to arcticeps than to torridus arenicola Mearns from near El Paso Tex.
The ears are considerably blacker than in t. arenicola and the facial markings are more distinct while the tail is much shorter.
Onychomys ruidosae u. subsp.
Type No.
11091 Coll.
Acad.
Nat.
Sciences of Philadelphia.
9.
Ruidoso Lincoln county N. M. September 19 1898.
Collected by C. M. Barber.
Apparently related to 0. melanophris.
but differing in its more reddish coloration darker head and ears and in the narrower interptery gold fossa.
Distribution.
 Specimens from Hale's Ranch in the Wliite Mountain region have also been examined.
Color.
 Above dull ferruginous becoming almost clear rufous on the rump  head and nape blackishgray washed with ferruginous  ears blackishgray beset with fine silverywhite hairs which are most abundant toward the apex chin pale gra3ishpink.
Under surface including fore and hind limbs except posterior surface of hind legs dull white the under fur plumbeous.
Tail rather thinlv haired with the upper surface mixed brown and white.
Skull.
 The skull of ruidosce closely resembles that of melanophrys but differs in the broader rostrum and nasals the more truncate occipital region the narrower interpterygoid fossa and in the stouter and heavier condylar process of the mandible.
Measurements.
 Flesh dimensions of type Total length 156 nun.
 length of tail 47 length of hind foot 22.
Remarks.
 While closely related to the melanophrys group ruidosce is a very distinct species.
Relationship exists with fuliginosus Merriam and torridus Coues but the former is immediately separated by the slenderer skull and weaker incisors beside the narrower rostrum and nasals as well as the smaller auditory bulla.
From torridus it is easily differentiated by the deeper coloration the grayer head and the more indefinite lateral line as well as the much greater size.
Peromyscus texanus sonoriensis LeConte.
1853.
Hesperomys sonoriensis Le Conte.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila. p. 413.
Santa Cruz Sonora.
Three specimens from the vicinity of Alamogordo Otero county.
N. M. appear indistinguishable from specimens of sononensis collected by the Mexican Boundary Survey.
Peromyacus truei Shufeldt.
1885.
Hesperomys truei Shufeldt Proc.
U. S. National Museum VIII p. 407 September 14 1885.
Fort Wingate N. M .
Six specimens from Hale's Ranch Ruidoso Lincoln county.
X. M. appear identical with a topotype from the collection of the U. S. National jMuseum.
An apparently immature specimen from Las egas collected b Emerson Atkins and submitted by Prof. Cockerell.
appears to be referable to this form.
Peromyscus tornillo Mearns.
1896.
Peromyscus iornillo Mearns Preliminary Diagnoses of Xew Mammals from the Mexican Border of the United States p. 3 March 25 1896.
Near El Paso Tex.
Specimens from Mesilla Donna Ana county and Clapham LTnion county N. M. are slightly darker than the type of tornillo though apparently referable to the same form.
Peromyscus rufinus Merriam.
1890.
Hesperomys leucopvs rufinus Merriam North American Fauna.
No.
3 p. 65 September 11 1890.
San Francisco Mountain Ariz. Six specimens examined from Forks of Ruidoso Lincoln county and Mescalero Otero county N. M. Sigmodon hispidus berlandieri Baird.
1855.
Sigmodon berlandieri Baird Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 'II p. 333.
Rio Nazas Coahuila Mex.
Two specimens examined from Mesilla Donna Ana county X. M. and Pecos Reeves county Tex.
Neotoma micropus canescens Alleu.
1891.
Neotoma micropus canescens Allen Bull.
Amer.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist. Ill p. 285 June 30 1891.
North Beaver creek.
Panhandle of Oklahoma.
A specimen from Pecos Reeves county Tex. differs considerably from a Brownsville Tex. specimen and agrees with a specimen from Fort Hancock Tex. in the much paler coloration.
Neotoma mexicana Baird.
1855.
Neotoma mexicana Baird Proc.
Acad.
Nat Sci.
Phila.. '11.
p. 333.
Mountains near Chihuahua Mex.
Seven specimens examined from the following localities Ruidoso Forks of Ruidoso and Hale's Ranch Lincoln county and Mescalero Otero county N. M. Cratogeomys castanops Baird.
1852.
Pseudostoma castanops Baird Rep. Stansbury's Exped.
Great Salt Lake p. 313 June 1852.
Near Las Animas Colo. Three specimens examined from Pecos Reeves count' Tex.
Thomomys fulvus Wood house.
1852.
Geomys fulrus Woodhouse Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. VI p. 201.
San Francisco Mountain Ariz. Specimens of this form have been examined from Hale's Ranch Lincoln county and Las A'egas San Miguel county N. M. the latter collected by Emerson Atkins and submitted by Prof. Cockerell.
One specimen from the latter locality is uniform plumbeous except the feet and mouth which are white.
Thomomys fossor Allen.
1S93.
Thomomijs fossor Allen BuU.
Amer.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist. V p. 51 April 28  1893.
Florida La Plata county Colo. One specimen of this species from Agua Fria Park Colfax county N. M. collected by Emerson Atkins was submitted by Prof. Cockerell.
It agrees with the type except for the more hirsute tail.
Dipodomys merriami ambiguus Merriam.
1890.
Dipodomys ambiguus Merriam North American Fauna No.
4 p. 42 October 8 1890.
EI Paso Tex.
A fine series of sixteen specimens of this form was collected in the vicinity of Alamogordo Otero county N. M. and a single specimen was also examined from Pecos Reeves county Tex.
A considerable range of variation is presented in the series some specimens appearing quite grayish in comparison to the usual pale buffy coloration.
Dipodomys spectabilis Merriam.
1890.
Dipodomys spectabilis Merriam North American Fauna No.
4 p. 46.
October 8 1890.
Dos Cabezos Ariz. A specimen of this form from vicinity of Alamogordo Otero county N. M. probably not quite mature differs from topotypes from the Biological Survey collection in the slightly smaller size and more grayish coloration.
Perodipus ordii Woodhouse.
1853.
Dipodomys ordii Woodhouse Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. VI p. 235.
El Paso Tex.
A specimen of this species was examined from Pecos Reeves county Tex.
Perognathus flavus Baird.
1855.
PerognatMis flavus Baird Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. VII p. 332. .
El Paso Tex.
Six specimens of this form from the vicinity of Alamogordo Otero county N. L were examined.
Perognathus penicillatus eremicus Mearns.
1898.
Perognafhus Chcetodipus eremicus Mearns Bull.
Amer.
Mus Nat Hist. X p. 300 August 31 1898.
Fort Hancock Tex.
Two specimens of this race were collected in the vicinity of Alamogordo Otero county N. M. Perognathus hispidus paradoxus Merriam.
1SS9.
Perognathus paradoxus Merriam.
Xorth American Fauna No 1 p 24 October '25 1889.
Banner Kan. Two specimens of this form were examined one from Mesilla Donna Ana county and the other from Rio Gallinas Las Vegas San IMiguel county N.
1. collected by Emerson Atkins and submitted by Prof. Cockerell.
Perognathus intermedius Merriam.
1889.
Perognathus intermedius Merriam North American Fauna o 1 p 18 October 25 1889.
Mud Spring Ariz. The collection of the Academy contains a male from Mesilla Donna Ana count' N. M. Lepus arizonae minor Mearns.
1S96.
Lepus arizonce.
minor Mearns Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XVIII p 557 June 24 1896.
El Paso Tex.
Two specimens from Pecos Reeves county Tex. are referable to this form Lepus texianus griseus Mearns.
1896.
Lepus texianus griseus Mearns Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XVHI p. 562 June 24 1896.
Fort Hancock Tex.
An immature specimen from the vicinity of Alamogordo Otero county N. M. appears to belong here but it is not developed enough for positive identification.
Putorius Lutreola vison Schreber.
1778.
Mustela vison Schreber Siiugthiere III p. 463.
Eastern Canada.
A skin of a mink collected at Las Vegas San Miguel county N. M. by Marshall Robbins was submitted by Prof. Cockerell.
In the absence of the skull and strictly comparable material the exact relationship to the various geographic races cannot be ascertained.
Myotis evotis H. Allen.
1864.
Vesperfilio evotis H. Allen Monogr.
Bats N.
Amer. p. 48 June 1864.
Monterey Cal.
Two specimens of this species have been examined one from Sapello Canon Las Vegas range San Miguel county N.
I. taken at an altitude of 10000 feet the other from Dry Canon Sacramento Mountains Otero county N. M. Nyctinomus mexicanus Saussure.
1860.
Molossus mexicanus Saussure Revue et Magasin de Zoologie 2e sr. XII p. 283.
Plateau and higher mountains of Central Mexico  Cofre de Perote 13000 feet Ameca and foot of Popocatepetl 8500 feet specified.
The name mexicanus is used provisionally for the Nyctinomus of central and western Texas and southern New Mexico.
Further study may show that it is not identical with the central Mexican form but as far as can be judged by Saussure's measurements closer relationship exists with mexicanus than with cynoccphalus.
The latter form is a smaller animal the average length of the forearm in five specimens from Tarpon Springs Fla. being 40.1 mm. while five specimens from New Mexico and Texas average 42.7 mm.
True hrasiliensis is of course a quite different animal.
Specimens have been examined from Mesilla Donna Ana comity N. M. Pecos Reeves county Helotes Bexar county and San Diego Duval county Tex.
BIRDS.
The birds oljtained number 122 specimens representing thirtyone species while ten others are added to the list which were seen but not secured.
These latter are marked with an asterisk.
Under each species are given Mr. Rehn's fieldnotes relative to its distribution abundance etc.
Querquedula discors Linn..
Jne observed in alkali stream Laluz Canon April 18.
Callipepla squamata Vig.. 
Several observed near the mouth of Dry Canon May 2 and 9.
Zenaidura macroura Linn..
Observed frequently April 16 to May 19.
In the open country it was most frequent about cultivated tracts and in the canons could almost always be looked for in the vicinity of water.
Catliartes aura Linn. 
 
Seen on four occasions April 1829. '
' Dryobates scalaris bairdi Malh..
Found frequently in Dry Canon.
It was comparatively wild and showed a decided preference for a peculiar species of cactus.
Chordeiles acutipennis texensis Lawr..
Found several times in the Larrea belt and was apparent nesting between the grease wood and mesquite bushes.
All those seen were flushed from the ground but careful search failed to reveal the eggs.
Mav 2 to Mav 17.
Aeronautes melanoleucus Baird.
Rather numerous in Dry Canon.
April 22 to iMay 20 usually noticed in the morning.
Trochilus alexandri Bourc.
and Muls.
Several times noticed in Dry Canon April 17 to May 19 and one female secured.
A nest obtained was built upon a small bush growing horizontally from the perpendicular side of a small caiion about ten feet from the bottom.
Tyrannus verticalis Say
Several birds apparently of this species were observed May 1 to 2 but were very wild and apparently migrants as none were seen later.
Myiarchus cineracens Lawr.. 
Observed almost continuously April 18 to May 17 everywhere in the canons and sometimes in the Larrea as well.
Its favorite perch was the top of a spidery cactus or the head of a yucca.
Sayornis saya Bonap.
 April 22 to May 19.
Rather numerous in the canons near water.
Corvus corax sinuatus Wagl..
Several observed each morning April 12 to 17 and again May 15.
Seen also at Ysleta Tex April 4.
Corvus cryptoleucus Couch. 
One shot April 25 a mile and a half north of Alamogordo.
It was feeding on the carcass of a cow.
Icterus parisorum Bonap. 
April 17 to jIay 16.
Fairly numerous near the arroyos about the mouth of the caiions and in the lower foothills and very shy.
Scolecophagus cyanocephalus Wagl..
Several noticed in the town of Alamogordo April 25 and May 22.
Carpodacus mexicanus frontalis Say.
Rather numerous through April but not so common in May.
Most frequent near the spring in Dry Canon where they could be seen at almost any time drinkihg from the film of water that trickled down the side of the canon.
Astragalinus psaltria Say.
Seen with the preceding April 7 to May 17.
All the specimens are molting and contrary to the custom in the Eastern A. tristis the flight feathers are being renewed at the prenuptial molt.
Zonotrichia leucophrys Forst..
Found both in the canon and on the plain in the Larrea belt always in small flocks April 7 to April 29 and several on May 1 .
Some of the males oneyearold birds
are in the prenuptial molt and are acciuiring the black and white feathers of the crown.
Other highly plvmiaged individuals probably old lairds show no signs of molt.
Spizella breweri Cass.
One secured April 15 and a numlier seen the next day in the Larrea.
Spizella atrigularis Cab..
One secured in Dry Caiion May 17.
This captiue extends the range of the species some distance eastward the Hachita Mountains being the previous limit of its distribution so far as I can find in the records.
Amphispiza bilineata deserticola Ridgw.
By far the most abundant and characteristic bird of the region both on the plain and in the caiions.
Observed continuously April 7 to May 21.
A nest with three eggs was found May 14 which was possibly a second clutch as a fledgling was secured some days before.
Aimophila ruficeps scottii Senn..
Seen several times in the canons April 11 to May 17.
Pipilo fuscus mesoleucus Baird. 
Noticed only in the caiions and on the lower foothills April 8 to 22.
Oreospiza chlorura Aud..
Associated with the preceding.
April 8 to 29.
Calamospiza melanocorys Stejn.
A number seen May 1 in the canon.
One male secured had nearly finished the molt including the tertials but not the rest of the flight feathers.
Piranga hepatica Swains.
A male obtained in the foothills.
May 8.
Petrochelidon lunifrons Say.
Several observed May 19.
Hirnndo erythrogastra Bodd.
Observed several times April 18 May 20 and 22.
Tacliycineta thalassina Swains..
April 7 to May 20 usually seen toward evening.
Lanius ludovicianus excubitorides Swains..
Observed at Ysleta Tex. April 2 and at Alamogordo May 22.
Dendroica auduboni Towns..
One secured April IS Laluz Canon.
Helminthophila virginiae Baird.
One shot in Dry Cafion April 29.
Wilsonia pusilla pileolata Pall..
Two obtained in Dry Canon April 24 and 29.
Mimus polyglottos leucopterus Vig..
Abundant about the mouth of the canon May 821.
Toxostoma crissalis Henry.
Very retiring in habits and always frequenting the mouth of the caiion April 7 to May 16.
Heleodytes brunneicapillus couesi Mearns. 
Noticed in the foothills in small flocks April 9.
The specimen secured seems to be unquestionably this form although two from Pecos in the Academy's collection approach anthonyi somewhat in the broadening of the marks on the back.
Salpinctes obsoletus Say.
Noticed continuously April 7 to May 21 in the canons only.
Tbryomanes bewickii leucogaster Baird.
Two secured in Dry Canon April 25 and May 6.
Catherpes mexicanus conspersus Ridgw.
Found in the deeper parts of the canon where the junipers begin and the greasewood stops April 8 to May 17.
The wear on the plumage of the back of these birds causes a striking difference in their appearance.
First the white borders to the spots are lost and then the spots themselves leaving the back almost uniform and very different in appearance from the perfect postnuptial plumage.
Auriparus fiaviceps Sundcv..
Noticed several times in the cailon April 18 and Mav 9.
A nest and set of eggs were secured.
Polioptila caerulea obscura Ridgw.
Found almost entirely in the canon April 24 to May 13.
REPTILE3S.
Sixteen species of reptiles were obtained many of them represented by good series of specimens.
These are about equally divided between forms which range over the central Lower Sonoran area of Texas and those which are characteristic of the desert region of Arizona to the westward the valleys of southern New Mexico being respectively the western and eastern limit of range of the two groups.
Of the species which according to Cope range over the first plateau region of Texas Lower Sonoran may be mentioned  Sceloporus torquatus poinsetti Holbrookia texana Sceloponis consobrinus Salvadora grahaniicc Anota modesta Crotalus adamanteus atrox Phrynosoma cornutum Crotalus confluentus.
The species of the more western desert region are  Cnemidophorus tessellatus Crotaphytes unslizenii iCnemidophorus gularis Uta stanshunjiana Sceloporus clarkii Pityophis sayi bcUona.
Crotaphytes c. baileyi Of course the distribution of some of these species has not been worked out in sufficient detail to warrant positive statements as to their range while a number of recorded localities are so obviously erroneous that we are forced to attribute them to confusion of labels an accident which could easily happen in the early days of collecting.
However the geographic relationship of the species contained in the present collection would seem to be about as alcove.
To add to the value of the following list we have added notes on the species contained in a valuable collection from Pecos Tex. recently presented to the Academy by Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown.
This region being very similar in its faunal relations to the vicinity of Alamogordo the comparison of the faunae is of much interest.
Crotaphytes collaris baileyi Siejn..
Two specimens secured in Dry Canon May 10 and 13.
Dr. Stejneger has divided the old C. collaris into two very closely related forms C. baileyi of the western deserts and true C. collaris of the eastern region Texas.
In Prof.
Cope's paper on the geographic position of Texas he describes this species as ranging over what we now know as the Lower Sonoran area of that State while according to Dr. Merriam C. baileyi in the western deserts is an Upper Sonoran form.
It would be interesting to know the exact zonal relationship of the specimens described by Prof.
Cope from western Texas and New Mexico where he states that both forms occur together and exhibit all stages of intergradationso far as arrangement of scales is concerned Crocodilians Lizards and Snakes of North America.
A series of eleven specimens in Mr. A. E. Brown's collection from Pecos represents both forms so that at least C. haileyi must be regarded as a subspecies.
Crotaphytes wislizenii B. and G. One obtained on the plain May 6.
This species is regarded by Dr. Merriam as typical of the Lower Sonoran but also ranging a certain distance into the Upper Sonoran belt.
It has been obtained in the vicinity of Pecos Tex. but not farther east.
TJta stansburyana B. and G. A large number seciued in the country about Alamogordo show considerable variation in color but the relationship of the species and its possible races is too involved for present consideration.
Holbrookia texana Troschel.
This species was common in Dry Caiion.
It is a characteristic form of the Lower Sonoran of central Texas and has been obtained by Prof.
Cope as far west as Lake Valley N. M. which seems to mark the western limit of its range.
Mr. Brown's Pecos collection contains several of this species.
Sceloporus torquatus poinsettii B. and G. One adult.
May 10.
This is a common species in central Texas and has been recorded by Cope from southeastern Arizona.
Even if the localities on these specimens are correct it would seem to be decidedly an eastern species.
Mr. Brown obtained one from the vicinity of Pecos Tex.
Sceloporus clarkii B. and G. One young individual secured near Alamogordo May 24.
This form is closely related to S. magister but according to Dr. Stejneger is restricted to southeastern Arizona Upper Sonoran while the latter is characteristic of the Lower Sonoran deserts north to Utah and Nevada.
This specimen represents the farthest point east at which the species has been recorded so far as I am aware though Prof. Cockerell has sent one to the U. S. National Museum from Las Cruces N. M. Four specimens are in Sir.
Brown's Pecos collection.
Sceloporus consobrinus B. and G. This lizard was common in Dry Canon as well as on the desert.
It is apparently the form so identified by Cope l3ut probably not the one so named by Stejneger in the report on reptiles collected on the San Francisco Moimtain survey.
One specimen from HighroUs Saci'amento Mountains in the Transition belt is doubtless referable to the latter.
It is darker and more heavily built than those from the desert.
The material in the Academy collection has not sufficiently accurate data as to locality and altitude to properly work out this difficult group so that the above identification must be taken as provisional.
Found plentifully also at Pecos Tex.
Phrynosoma cornutum Harlan.
Common on the plain all about Alamogordo a typical species of the eastern Lower Sonoran region and extending well up the Rio Grande Valley in New Mexico.
Phrynosoma douglasii hernandesi Girard.
Obtained alDundantly by Ir.
Viereck in the Transition and Canadian belts of the Sacramento Mountains.
Specimens were also secured for the Academy from Sapello Canon.
San Miguel coimtv.
N. M.. in August 1901 by Dr. Henry Skinner.
Mr. Viereck brought home a live individual of this species and kept it in captivity for some time.
It proved to be an adult female and gave birth to thirteen young.
He gives me the following information relative to the operation  When first noticed four young had been born a fifth appeared at 10.05 A.M. and after that one was deposited about every five minutes.
The birth was effected by the female standing on her hind legs as high from the ground as possible.
There first appeared a drop of clear fluid followed by a bubblelike transparent membrane containing the young which is then entirely discharged and dropped the operation taking less than two minutes.
If the young is perfect it will soon begin to wriggle and will clear itself of the membrane in about five minutes from birth.
The young are at first narrow and cylindrical but as soon as they begin to inhale air they become broad and flat like the adult and darken in color.
They measured at birth 16X10 mm.
Some were evidently born prematurely and showed no signs of life they were doubled up and surrounded by a glutinous mass.
Anota modesta Girard.
Very common on the plains about Alamogordo.
This is another species of the Lower Sonoran of central Texas and a number are in Mr. Brown's collection from Pecos.
Cnemidophorus gularis B. and G. Abundant in the canons but not found in ine desert regions about Alamogordo where its place is taken by the following species.
To the westward the relative distribution of the two remains the same C. gularis occupying the Upper Sonoran of Arizona east of Tucson while C. tessellaUis spreads over all the Lower Sonoran desert areas and according to Dr. Merriam pushes up some distance into the L'pper Sonoran of the Death Valley region.
The exact relationship and distribution of these two forms and the eastern C. sexlineatus is a very difficult problem though it would probably be much simplified by adequate material mth exact data such as that borne by the series before me.
Many of the localities quoted by Prof.
Cope in his Crocodilians Lizards and Snakes of N. A. are so exceedingly vague and others so doubtful that they had better be ignored at least until confirmed.
After examining the material received by him from Texas it would seem that C. sexlineatus extends over the Austroriparian region of eastern Texas departing but little from the normal type until we reach the border of the Lower Sonoran first plateau belt.
Here we have a form closely resembhng the C. gularis of Dry Canon which would seem to be the only form in central Texas.
C. grahami Cope of which I have examined specimens from the Staked Plains seems to be most closely related to C. tessellatus but if the central Texas form is C. gularis we would have the faunal relation of the representatives of the two species exactly reversed as compared with the vicinity of Alamogordo since the Staked Plains are Upper Sonoran and central Texas Lower Sonoran.
The Academy has both species from the vicinity of Pecos but without details of distribution and as both faunal belts occur there in close proximity it is quite possible that their distribution is as sharply limited as at Alamogordo.
Mr. Brown's Pecos collection contains specimens of both tessellatus and gidaris as well as some identified as sexlineatus.
They are accompanied by no data as to relative habitats.
Cnemidopliorus tessellatus Say.
Abundant in the desert about Alamogordo.
Pityophis sayi bellona B. and G. A number of specimens obtained which are probably referable to the western desert race.
They possess a broad rostral but have usually a wellindicated black subcaudal longitudinal stripe.
Salvadora grahamise B. and G. One specimen obtained which belongs to the typical form.
Several others were seen.
Mr Brown obtained one from Pecos Texas.
Crotalus adamanteus atrox B. and G. One specimen secured.
Crotalus confluentus Say.
One specimen which agrees exactly with Prof.
Cope's type of C. pulverulentus from Lake Valley N. M. but the characters do not seem to have any significance further than indicating individual variation.
3 34 Jan. The following additional species are contained in Mr. A. E. Brown's collection from Pecos Tex.
Eumeces obsoletus B. and G.. Uta ornata B. and G.. Rhinochilus lecontei B. and G. Heterodon nasicus B. and G.. Zamenis jlageUum Shaw Zamenis tceniatus ornatus B.andG.
Contia episcopa Kenn. Glaucona dulcis B. and G. Tantilla nigriceps Kenn.
BATRACHIANS.
The only Batrachian obtained was Bufo punctatus B. and G. Two individuals from the spring in Drv' Canon.
MYRIOPODS FROM BEULAH NEW MEXICO.
BY RALPH V. CHAMBERLIN.
The chilopods and diplopods noted arid described in this paper compose a small collection kindly sent me for determination by Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell to whom I wish here to express my thanks.
All were collected at Beulah N. M. which is at an elevation of about 8000 feet abovdsealevel and within the Canadian zone.
The forms prove to be largely peculiar each being easily distinguished from any previously described species.
The Geophilus is especially interesting.
Lithobius glyptocephalus sp.
nov.
Diagnosis.
 Angles of the 9th 11th and 13th dorsal plates produced articles of antennae 20 ocelli 1618 in three series  prosternal teeth 66 77 spines of first legs beneath 1 3 2 of penult 1 3 3 2 of anal 1 3 3 1  coxal pores 6 7 7 76 7 8 8 transverse length 20 mm.
Description.
 Body brown to lightbrown head and posterior dorsal scuta darker reddishbrown or chestnut venter paler legs colored similarly to body but distal joints especially the first tarsal purplish  antennae chestnut proximally  the terminal portion lightbrown  dorsal plates roughened sparsely pilose especially caudad antennae moderately pilose with stiff hairs.
Head subcordate sHghtly wider than long 12 11.5 a strong furrow extending dorsomesad on each side each furrow dividing into two branches the anterior of which curves forward to unite with its fellow of the opposite side just back of the frontal suture the posterior branches uniting similarly in front of caudal margin of head.
Ocelli in a narrow elongate patch which is widest behind 1618 in number arranged in three series 17 6 415 5 5  rather large and distinct.
Antennae short consisting of 20 articles of moderate length the ultimate long and pointed at the end.
Prosternal teeth 66 77 uniform.
Angles of the 9th 11th and 13th dorsal plates produced plates more or less distinctly depressed along the median longitudinal line  posterior margin of principal plates except 7th sinuate posterior margin of 7th straight principal plates strongly marginate laterally and posteriorly.
Spines of the first legs ''  of the penult 'i' the claw with KJiJi.xi.j  0 n 1 3 2 '  0 1 3.
3 2' one spine of the anal ''f1 the claw unarmed last two coxse armed laterally with a stout spine.
Coxal pores 6 7 7 66 7 8 8 transversely elongate.
Gonopods of female with the claw tripartite the lateral lobes much reduced almost minute basal spines 22 stout clavately thickened distally.
Genital appendages of male short and wartlike pilose.
Length of body 20 mm.
 width of 10th plate 2.6 mm.
 length of antennae 8.1 mm.
 of anal legs 8.2 mm.
Remarks.
 The description is based upon two adult specimens a male and a female.
This species seems to be nearest L. howei Boll. from which however it may easily be separated ly the characters assigned in the diagnosis.
Lithobius Beulae sp.
nov.
Diagnosis.
 Angles of none of the dorsal plates produced head but little wider than long 10.5 10 articles of antennte 21 ocelli 911 in two series prosternal teeth 22 spines of first legs beneath 0.
2 1 of penult 1 3 3 1 the claw armed with a single spine posterior coxse unarmed beneath or laterally coxal pores 2 3 3 3 round length 8 mm.
Description.
 Body head and antenna
brown legs paler polished dorsum uniformly sparsely pilose with short hairs hairs of venter more scattered head subglabrous legs 3rosternum and prehensorial feet sparsely pilose antennse proximally Avith but few hairs or subglabrous distally rather densely pilose genital and anal segments clothed lelow with long hairs.
Head cordiform posterior border truncate a little wider than long 10.5 10 posterior lateral borders depressed impressed on posterior portion with two longitudinal diverging sulci each with a tendency to split into two lines anteriorly.
Ocelli in a linear patch 911 in number arranged in two series 135146.
Antenna short articles 21 mostly short the ultimate long and cylindrical.
Prosternal teeth 22 pale acute.
Principal dorsal plates all margined laterally and caudally  the lateral and posterior borders especially in the anterior plates depressed the dorsum within border strongly arched bisulcate posterior borders of lesser plates all straight of principal ones gently sinuate none produced Spines of the first legs  Piiiirlii  of the penult J'jlsjJ'J the claw   000 2 l'  0.13.31' armed with a single spine posterior coxse unarmed beneath or laterally.
Coxal pores round 2 3 3 3.
Genital appendages of male small wartlike.
Length of body 78 mm.
 width of 10th dorsal plate .76 mm.
 length of antennae 2.3 mm.
Remarks.
 The description is based upon two males both of which have lost the anal legs.
The general appearance is not unlike that of L. utahensis Chamb. from the mountains of Utah.
Geophilus atopodon sp.
nov.
Diagnosis.
 Frontal plate discrete last ventral plate narrow anal pores present moderately large pleural pores 1016 adjacent to ventral and dorsal plates  coxse of prehensorial feet each armed with a stout tooth the tooth of claw truncate at end pairs of legs 4951 9  claw of anal legs long 9   length 25 mm.
Description.
 Rather robust very gradually attenuated cephalad more abruptly caudad color uniformly lightbrown the legs the same the antennse lighter distally.
Dorsal plates smooth sparsely pilose legs very sparsely pilose last seven articles of antennae densely pilose with short hairs the proximal ones more sparsely provided with long hairs  prosternum and coxse of prehensorial feet finely punctate.
Antennae short the ultimate joint reduced distally shorter than the two preceding taken together.
Cephalic plate much longer than wide 2.5 1.9 anterior and posterior margins nearly straight the sides curving wider in front than behind.
Frontal plate discrete the suture Vshaped in the middle with the point directed backward.
Cephahc plate back of suture impressed with a strong suture near each lateral margin and with one each side of the median line a median sulcus extending cephalad in the Vshaped opening of the suture.
Prebasal plate concealed.
Basal plate as a whole more than twice wnder than long 94 exposed portion wider than long in the ratio 9  2.25.
Claws of prehensorial feet when closed scarcely reaching the end of the first antennal article  claw armed at base with a moderately stout truncate tooth coxa armed with a stout tooth which is somewhat longer than that of the claw prosternum wider than long 12 10.5 less than twice the height of the coxa unarmed. '
Dorsal scuta not sulcate or with a few of the middle ones indistinctly bisulcate  anterior prsescuta short becoming long or very long in the posterior middle region the last ones again short.
First anterior spiracle large vertically oval a few following of the same shape others round gradually decreasing in size from the first to the last.
Anterior ventral plates with a median sidcus some of the middle ones with a median oval area marked off laterally by semilunar depressions.
Ventral pores numerous in more anterior plates arranged in a median depressed area in first middle plates in a longitudinal median band and in a narrower band cephalad of posterior margin further back covering nearly the entire surface although in some more or less absent from a median area while densely covering the plate elsewhere.
First pair of legs shorter and much more slender than those succeeding legs increasing in length from the first to the last.
Anal legs with a long claw.
Pleurae of last segment with 1016 pores arranged mostly along the margin of the ventral plate or partly covered by the latter a number 45 also adjacent or somewhat overlapped by the dorsal plate.
Last ventral plate a little wider than long about as wide as the one preceding.
Pairs of legs 4951.
Length 25 mm.
 greatest width 1.2 mm  length of antennae 2 mm.
 of anal legs .9 mm.
Remarks.
 The types are two adult females.
They are not very closely related to any other known species.
Parajulus ueomexicanus sp.
nov.
Diagnosis.
 First dorsal plate smooth its sides not at all striate other segments strongly striate below.
Repugnatorial pores small free from the transverse suture.
Last dorsal plate blunt behind not extending beyond anal valves.
Preanal scale convexly rounded in front and behind the curved margins meeting at an acute angle laterally.
Anal valves marginate rugose.
Male Mandibular stipes strongly produced below the greatly enlarged first pair of legs not at all bent or hamate at end not tuberculate copulatory feet exposed the anterior plate set obliquely very wide clavately enlarged upward and produced backward above base posteriorly the inner border bent inward or backward indented below top concealing middle and posterior piece from the front and side.
Description.
 Slender smooth and shining glabrous.
General color lightlrown transversely banded with darkbrown or blackish a median dorsal line of same  a series of suboval lightcolored spots along lower part of each side  toward dorsum within dark band of each segment a short row of lightcolored often confluent blotches each crossed by a network of fine dark lines  in each segment laterad of the dorsal line a short lightcolored transverse Hue feet pale first dorsal plate and vertex of head hghtbrown covered with a network of fine darkbrown lines a dark blackish band between eyes with within near middle two light fines diverging cephalad  a fight spot mesad from the base of each antenna  clypeal region fightbrown  antemise dark.
Head at vertex with a shallow median sulcus.
Antennae in length about equaling the width of the body pilose the terminal articles densely so  articles long.
OceUi in a large triangular patch about 50 in number arranged in 8 series.
First dorsal plate smooth not at all striate other segments strongly striate beneath above with numerous longitudinal wavy fines anterior segments more strongly striate than the posterior.
Posterior angle of the last dorsal plate rounded blunt but little produced not extending beyond anal valves.
Preanal scale convexly rounded in front and behind indented in the middle behind the two curved margins meeting at an acute angle on each side mth two long bristles otherwise glabrous.
Anal valves glabrous marginate the elevate margins crossed by a series of transverse sulci valves elsewhere roughened by numerous longitudinal rugae.
Repugnatorial pores smaU not touching transverse sutme. Legs rather short not extending beyond sides of body sparsely pilose claw strong last tarsal joint with a row of stout bristles pulvilli tar sales projecting outward on each side c.
Male Stipes of mandibles strongly produced below first pair of legs greatly enlarged reaching anterior margin of gnathochilariiun nearly straight not bent or at aU hamate at end very sparsely pilose not tuberculate  coxae of second pair of legs meeting within and produced forward into a narrow tonguefike process with a round or buttonshaped appendage at end at base of coxse a median pit which continues forward along process as a shallow furrow copulatory appendages exposed anterior plate set somewhat obliquely  very wide clavately enlarged upward the outer or posterior border much produced backward above base concealing other pieces from front and side inner border indented below top bent inward or backward plate pilose with numerous long hairs outward from bent border and along a fine below and paraUel with upper margin middle piece as also outer one shorter than the anterior subtriangular in caudal aspect acutely pointed with fine rather distantly placed teeth along sides which are not strongly bent or roUed inner basal portion produced forward a hamate process in front of each outer or posterior piece narrowed above its top rounded and a little bent bearing a long bristle at base also one or several long bristles.
Segments 4757.
Length 36 mm.
 width 1.9 mm.
Remarks.
 The specimens studied include three adults two males and a female and several immature individuals.
The measurements given are from the largest individual a male.
Polydesmus sp.
Several young individuals of a species of this genus are in the collection.
They are of the stage possessing only twelve segments and thus too young for determination.
