THE DEVELOPMENT AND STRUCTURE OF THE LARVA OF Paragordius
BY THOMAS H. MONTGOMERY JR. Professor of Zoology in the University of Texas.
The embryology of the Gordiacea is a subject full of mystery and interest notwithstanding the attempts at its solution.
It is one fraught with technical difficulties and one where the obtaining of material is usually a matter of chance.
With a peculiar delight then after many vain attempts to collect the eggs I found in March and April of the present year numerous adults of both sexes with eggstrings in abundance of Paragordius varius Leidy in a small stream that passes through the town of Austin Texas.
Ovipositing females were brought to the laboratory and the eggstrings kept for weeks in small jars of water aerated by plants.
The fullformed larval stage is reached in from ten to twelve days and these larvfe live for more than a week longer before they leave the eggmembranes.
After leaving the latter they live for only a few days unless they reach their proper host.
In Texas as in Pennsylvania the last host is the large cricket Acheta abbreviata  in this host are found individuals from about onethird the ultimate size to the adult stage.
As is well known for all the species of Gordiacea the adults leave their terminal hosts and come into the water wdiere the eggs are fertilized and laid.
Whether the cricket is the only host of Paragordius varius or whether there is a preceding one into which the larva first enters I have not yet been able to determine.
Attempts were made to infect crickets with larvae by crushing the eggstrings containing the latter so as to liberate the larva and placing drops of water filled with the larvae upon grass fed to the crickets.
None of the adult crickets lived longer than a month in confinement and each one out of about 75 kept under observation was examined in vain at the time of its death for Paragordius larve
Crushed eggstrings were placed in water containing Amphipods Gammarids  at the end of two weeks the Amphipods showed numerous larvffi encysted in the intestine and musculature but these larvae underwent no further development.
Terrestrial Isopods Oniscus found in damp places were placed in contact with water containing larvae and such water was dropped upon their mouths two weeks later a single one of them showed a single larva in the intestine encysted but dead.
Pieces of eggstrings were placed in aquaria with brook minnows  the fish some three weeks later showed larvae encysted in the intestine and a few in the muscles but here again no further development of the larva
was obtained.
Finally infection attempts were made with tadpoles of Bufo
The first lot of tadpoles were small but operculum present and crushed eggstrings were placed in their water on April 12 most of the tadpoles died between the 16th and the ISth of Apiil the last on the 19th the autopsy showed large numbers of larvae not encysted in the intestine but most if not all of the larva were dead.
About the same results were reached with two other lots.
Larvae placed in water containing mosquito larvae Culex encysted themselves in the mosquitoes and soon caused their death.
These results are of course quite indecisive except in showing that mosquito larvae and toad tadpoles cannot le normal hosts of the parasites.
So I have not been able to secure the early postlarval development of Paragordius and in the present contribution shall deal with that literature only which concerns the development up to the larval stage.
Since the ultimate host is a land insect while the parasites are at first aquatic it is of value to determine how long the mature worms can withstand desiccation.
One adult female within a few hours after emerging from a cricket was placed in a dry dish  four hours afterward she was alive but with dry cuticle eighteen hours afterward she was shriveled up and did not resuscitate on being placed in water.
Several adult females a few hours after escaping from crickets were placed in an open dish on moist filter paper twentyfour hours afterward they were still alive though the body surface was dry and on placing them in water they lived for several days.
Eggstrings when dried shrivel up and the eggs die quickly.
Portions of eggstrings at timed periods were preserved in three fixatives Zenker's fluid made up of 5 per cent of corrosive sublimate and 5 per cent of glacial acetic acid in Miiller's solution bichromate of potash 2 parts sulphate of soda 1 part water 100 parts  a mixture of 95 per cent alcohol 3 per cent nitric acid and aqueous solution of corrosive sullimate in equal parts and a mixture of glacial acetic acid 10 parts and 95 per cent alcohol 90 parts.
The fixation with Zenker's fluid is by far the best of these producing no distortion and preserving admirably dalicate cellular details.
To my surprise I found contrary to the results of other workers that the ova despite their membranes are readily penetrated and that all alcoholic and strongacid solutions are to be avoided Flemming's fluid osmic acid acetic acid and chromic acid penetrates easily but blackens the tissues too quickly.
A fixation of three to twenty hours in Zenker's fluid is followed by rinsing in distilled water for fully the same length of time  then the eggstrings are brought through successive alcohol grades up to 83 per cent.
They remain in the latter for several days then are brought down gradually to distilled water.
With each eggstring in a narrow roundbottomed vial I take a glass rod and thoroughly crush the eggstring in water after it has been well hardened in alcohol  thus the eggs are easily freed from each other and none are lost.
An aqueous stain is then poured upon them and for material fixed in Zenker's fluid I found Delafield's hsematoxyline diluted with an equal volume of water for two to three hours the best.
The ova still within the same vial are brought up through successive grades of alcohol to absolute alcohol half an hour in each grade then into a mixture of equal parts of absolute alcohol and xylol  then into pure xylol.
They are then mounted in Canada balsam.
These methods have been given in detail because only after numerous failures have I been able to secure fine preparations.
In the structure of the larva much can be determined by study of it in life.
And one can best investigate the armature of the proboscis by causing it to be permanently evaginated through treatment with a rather strong aqueous solution of caustic potash this swells up the whole body.
Sections were made of numerous eggstrings but the paraffine imbedding causes great distortion of the cells and it is necessary to imbed for several hours.
The whole mounts of the ova and larvse were the most instructive.
1.
The Early Development.
The structure of the adult reproductive organs has been previously described by me 1903 in detail and it is necessary here to recall only a few points to make the development clear.
The ovaries are a pair of long tubes extending nearly the entire length of the body each consisting of a longitudinal tube the uterus of the authors and of very numerous lateral diverticula or pouches ovaries in the narrow sense each of which communicates by an apertui'e with the uterus.
The posterior ends of the two uteri are ciliated and are termed the oviducts and these open into the atrium into the anterior end of which opens also the large receptaculum seminis.
The end of the intestine communicates with the atrium and from that point to the posterior end of the body extends the tubular cloaca with the cloacal aperture between the three tail lobes.
The atrium is lined with a glandular epithelium as is also the proximal end of the cloaca the remainder of the cloaca bears a cuticular lining.
The eggcells contained in the lateral diverticula of the ovaries of adult females individuals whose external cuticula is of a dark color are all ovocytes of the first order at the end of the growth period fig.
1 PI.
XLIX.
The nucleus is more or less central in position contains one large dcepl staining nucleolus and a nuclear sap which shows no trace of chromatin and only in a few cases exceedingly delicate linin fibres  even strong iron hsematoxyline stains fail to demonstrate chromatin particles.
The cellbody evinces a zone of yolk globules shaded in figs.
1 and 15 placed near the periphery while the cytoplasm is coarsely alveolar and the meshes of very regular size in the perinuclear area.
Wliile these ovocytes are passing from the ovaries to the uteri but before they have entered the latter their nuclei are in prophases of the first maturation mitosis such stages are shown in figs.
25.
The nucleolus becomes smaller and stains less intensely while there appear usually close to it chromosomes in the form of long loops figs.
2 3  these do not first appear simultaneously but successively.
These chromosomes shorten into the form of minute dumbbellshaped bodies seven in number fig.
4 and for the first time is seen in the nucleus an achromatic network fig.
5.
These are bivalent chromosomes as shown by their shape and by the fact that there are fourteen single chromosomes in the cells of the embryo.
Two points are remarkable in regard to them  first that no trace of them is to be seen in the preceding rest stage and second that they appear in succession close to the nucleolus and later arc frequently found in a compact group  a condition infrequent in a prophase.
The evidence is that these chromosomes come out of the nucleolus and that during the rest stage they are contained within it.
Such a condition has recently been demonstrated for the egg of Asterias by Hartmann 1902 but that it is by no means a usual condition in Metazoa on the contrary is decidedly unusual was previously shown by me 1898.
As the ovocyte enters the uterus the seven double chromosomes are arranged in the equator of the first polar spindle fig.
6 fig.
7 a pole view of the spindle this has the form of the corresponding spindle of Ascarisnd no centrosomes are demonstrable.
As the ovocytes closely compacted together are propelled rapidly backward along the uteri antl so through the oviducts into the atrium the spindle moves gradually nearer the periphery of the egg.
The females are impregnated with sperm and the receptaculum seminis filled with a great mass of it before the ovocytes enter the uteri so before the first polar spindle is formed.
This I have proved by examination of numerous adult females.
There is an intimate coition the male placing his cloacal aperture against that of the female  and the sperm has to traverse the length of the cloaca before reaching the receptaculum.
Ova will apparently not develop unless fertilized for there was no development at all in the eggstring of a female whose receptaculum was without spermatozoa.
In the testes of the adult male only mature spermatozoa are present and in this species there appears to be no spermatophorcs.
When the ovocytes reach the atrium they become surrounded by the minute flagellate spermatozoa issuing from the receptaculum and in the posterior part of the atrium and the proximal end of the cloaca the sperm enters the egg fig.
6.
The pole spindle is now excentric the spermatozoon enters usually at a point of the periphery furthest removed from the spindle but sometimes quite near it fig.
6.
On strongly destained hsematoxyline preparations the spermatozoon head is sharply distinguishable.
The ovocytes are propelled backward within the cloaca compacted into an eggstring.
While the ovarian egg has a limiting membrane of very delicate nature the egg in the proximal part of the cloaca has a thicker membrane that stains with hsematoxyline fig.
6 this increases in thickness as the egg progresses backward and becomes the outermost envelope of the egg figs.
8 10.
At the posterior end of the cloaca each egg shows a spermatozoon wathin the cell membrane and the first polar spindle at the periphery of the cell fig.
8.
At this stage the egg has two membranes the outer thinner one staining with chromatin stains already mentioned and a thicker inner one that stains faintly with cytoplasmic stains fig.
8  both are closely adherent to the cytoplasm.
But where the polar spindle touches the periphery these membranes are not present.
It is probable that both these membranes are products of the cytoplasm and not of any gland cells of the genital passages as I had previously opined else one could not explain their absence in the region of the polar spindle.
The outer membrane has at its inception probably a glutinous nature serving to hold the eggs together in a string.
The eggs pass out of the cloaca in a cylindrical continuous string usually much convoluted and in the first few days snowy white the worm may occupy as much as twentyfour hours in the discharge of its eggstring and then with its body flaccid and flattened it expires.
The first polebody is cut off by the egg shortly after the expulsion from the body and when it is cut off the two cellmembranes separate it from the surface of the egg fig.
9.
Shortly afterward these two jnembranes swell probably by osmotic action of the surrounding water and together compose a double membrane removed from the surface of the egg fig.
10 while the cytoplasm has formed a third delicate membrane which remains adherent to it.
By this means the first polar body becomes removed from the surface of the egg.
The ovocyte of the second order fig.
10 shows the second polar spindle like the first in form and without an intervening rest stage and this also contains seven chromosomes fig.
11.
The chromosomes are too minute to allow a determination of which of these is the reduction division  the second polar body is then cut off fig.
12 but remains adherent to the egg and the stage of the ovotid is reached.
During the process of formation of the second polar body the spermatozoon is changing into the sperm nucleus figs.
10 12 in that its head becomes a rounded chromatin mass lying within a clear vacuole.
Quite frequently there is polyspermy but I have no evidence that such cases develop into embryos.
When the second polar body is cut off we find the sperm nucleus in the form of a large spherical nucleus with a nucleolus and a linin network  and the egg nucleus in a less advanced stage fig.
13.
Finally the two nuclei are seen both in the rest stage fig.
14.
It is remarkable and to my knowledge unique in the known cases of fertilization that the two pronuclei are unequal in volume in the rest stage fig.
14 as also in the prophases of the first cleavage fig.
15 not a single case was found in which they were of equal volume.
The smaller one appears to be the egg nucleus because in most cases it is the one nearest the second polar body.
Its smaller size is probably due to the fact that it is formed in less time than the sperm nucleus and that the period is very short between its rest stage and the formation of the first cleavage spindle.
Fig.
15 shows the two pronuclei in the prophase of the first cleavage the sperm nucleus being the one at the left hand  the nuclear membrane of each has disappeared at the point where there is an accumulation of finely structured cytoplasm resembling the archoplasm of the similar stage in Ascaris
Each pronucleus contains a linin network and seven minute chromosomes  these are shown in the drawing much less distinctly than in the preparation where the chromosomes are stained intensely blue and the linin very faintly.
The first cleavage spindle fig.
16 contains 14 chromosomes only 12 seen in this figiue and the spindle unlike the polar spindles is pointed at each end  but neither at this stage nor at any of the later ones have I been able to determine the presence of centrosomes.
The double eggmembrane which we saw had become separated from the surface of the egg is still present and continues to include the embryo until the larval stage is a week old or more.
It is a complete protection for the egg against any bacterial organisms.
In the matter of the cleavage I have spent much time in the endeavor to work out the celllineage but have been unable to do so.
The egg is spherical  the second polar body varies in its position with regard to the axis of the first cleavage spindle the yolk appears to be rather uniformly distributed near the periphery.
So there is no means of orientation of the uncleaved egg.
The cleavage is total and adequal figs.
1721.
The two blastomeres of the 2ccll stage are almost equal in volume but one is always slightly larger than the other fig.
17.
In the 4cell stage fig.
18 there are two larger blastomeres and two smaller ones but the difference is very slight.
The axes of the spindles in the 2cell stage may be parallel or not and the cells may divide simultaneously or successively.
In the 4cell stage it is most frequent that a line connecting the two smaller blastomeres is perpendicular to one joining the two larger in such a way that all four blastomeres do not lie in one plane they apparently never arrange themselves in the Tshape so characteristic of Ascaris
Then the blastomeres are not spherical but so moulded by mutual contact that it is exceedingly difficult to determine their relative volumes.
Again the blastomeres of the 4cell stage may divide simultaneously or not.
For these reasons I have found it impossible to work out the celllineage without however wishing to imply that it may not be perfectly determinate.
A coeloblastula fig.
20 is formed at an early cleavage sometimes as early as six blastomeres almost always at the 8cell stage fig.
19.
At the 16cell stage fig.
21 the cleavagecavity is large.
On optical sections one pole of the blastula shows cells somewhat larger than those of the opposite pole.
While there are but a relatively small number of blastomeres an invagination of the largercelled wall of the blastula commences and leads to the establishment of a typical invagination gastrula figs.
2227.
All the lining mesentoderm of the gastroccel is not formed b an inpushing of the wall of the blastula but it appears rather that only a small number of cells are invaginated and that by the cell division of these the mesentoderm increases in amount.
The orifice of the invagination the blastopore is very narrow and in a position that corresponds with the ventroposterior end of the larva and the end toward which the mesentoderm turns figs.
23 24 26 is anterior so we can now distinguish anterior and posterior dorsal and ventral right and left.
The invaginated layer of cells is a mesentoderm because from it comes both the mcscnchym and the entoderm as shown in figs.
2527 where the mesenchym cells are shaded.
From that area where the mesentoderm joins the ectoderm the outer celllayer takes place a proliferation of cells of the mesentoderm leading to the formation of loose cells and masses of cells the mesenchym lying within the cleavagecavity.
Fig.
23 shows just at the blastopore two particularly large blastomeres which I first took to be mesenchym pole cells but I found them in only one case and do not believe there is a proliferation from a pair of pole cells though the proliferation comes from the region near the blastopore.
In no case was there any evidence of formation of the mesenchym from the side of the ectoderm in these stages the mitotic spindles of the ectoderm cells lie always parallel to their free surface never perpendicular to it as would be necessarv for the formation of mesenchym.
Particularly decisive in this matter are cases like that shown in fig.
25  mesentoderm cells dividing at right angles to the surface of the mesentoderm.
This embryonic tissue is properly ftiesenchym and not mesoderm since the cells do not arise as an epithelium or in compact masses but separately and cases like that of fig 27 where they appear for a time to compose solid masses are delusive and due to the difficulty of distinguishing the cells.
At no stage up through the larva do these cellular elements become epithelia.
The remainder of the early development may be traced rapidly and simply in order to clarify the organization of the larva.
The blastopore closes early BL figs.
2429 or remains as a very narrow opening.
The entoderm grows foiward and is largest at its apex fig.
26  this portion of the cntodermal canal will become the gland of the larva figs.
2S30 GL.
By cell division the few firstproduced mesenchym cells form more numerous smaller elements within the cleavagecavity shown as the shaded cells in figs.
2632 The next notable change is that at a point nearl opposite the blastopore BL the ectoderm thickens fig.
28 becoming two to three celllayers deep whereas elsewhere it has become much thinner at this stage also the anterior end of the cntodermal canal is becoming constricted off from the remainder.
In the next stage the thickened ectoderm mass commences to invaginate fig.
29 this being the commencement of the proboscis at the inner surface that surface bordering on the cleavagecaity this invaginated ectoderm shows an annular 48 proliferation Di. fig29 which is the perceptible beginning of the diaphragm of the larva.
Now also the anterior portion of the entodermal canal is nearly cut off from the posterior it is the immature condition of the larval gland Gl.
 sometimes as in fig.
29 its anterior end is pointed and in contact with the ectoderm of the proboscis and probably this pointed end represents the beginning of the tube duct of the gland at least I have no fiurther evidence as to the mode of development of the duct.
Fig.
30 shows the ectodermal invagination further progressed and the gland Gl.
completely cut off from the intestine In.
the mesoderm cells are numerous.
In the stage of fig.
31 the embryo is bent upon itself commashaped since the growth is not of volume but of length and the double eggmembrane prevents growth in a straight line.
The embryo is bent in the region of the diaphragm Di..
The diaphragm and the whole proboscis anterior to it is ectodermal except for a few mesenchym cells shaded that have now become young muscle cells.
Behind the diaphragm all that region which may be termed the trunk we find entoderm composing the embryonic intestine In.
and gland GL mesenchym shaded and a thin layer of ectoderm which on the ventral surface near the diaphragm is thickened embryonic nervous epitheliiun.
Fig.
32 is an immature larva with the armature of the proboscis developed.
During these stages the ectoderm of the surface of the body becomes very thin and its component cells fewer in number compare figs.
27 and 31  this is evidently due to a participation of the whole ectodermic layer in the proboscidial invagination.
In the intestine also the nuclei move to the two ends compare figs.
29 and 32 so that elsewhere the intestinal wall becomes very thin.
The blastopore is completely closed but its position still marked by the angle of junction of the ectoderm hypodermis and entoderm intestine.
The gland loses its central lumen 2 The Larva Plate L.
The larva is still included within the double eggmembrane and is not noticeably larger in volume than the eggcell so that during all this time it can have taken no nourishment from without.
A transverse diaphragm fig.
S6 Di.
 the margins of which are fused with the hypodermis Hy.
 separates the body into two regions an anterior proboscis and a posterior headtrunk.
The diaphragm is with difficulty demonstrable somewhat thicker than the hypodermis and staining slightly with hamatoxyline  on its anterior surface are a few nuclei of which four central ones are notably conspicuous.
It is traversed only by the duct Gl.d.
of the gland GL.
It is owing to the presence of this diaphragm that movements of the proboscis cause no movements whatever of the fluid within the cavity archicoel of the headtrunk.
The proboscis is seen in evaginated condition in fig.
36 in contracted in fig.
37.
The evagination is due to the contraction of longitudinal muscles Mus.
lying beneath the body wall and reflected over the  axial stalk of the proboscis.
A contraction of these muscles evaginates the armature partly perhaps by a direct pull partly perhaps by producing a pressure upon the fluid contained ithin the cavity of the proboscis.
A comparison of figs.
36 and 37 furnishes the best representation of the mechanics of this process.
Wlien the armature is evaginated the wall of the proboscis shows its annular folds ery close together fig.
36 when retracted further apart and less numerous.
Aiat causes the retraction of the armature is difficult to decide but it is perhaps due to the tension of certain long cells Fib.
lying at the base of the axis.
The hypodermis of the outer wall of the proboscis is exceedingly thin from the diaphragm to the base of the third row of spicules Sp.
3 of the armature and contaias not more than one or two nuclei.
On its outer surface is a thicker homogeneous cuticula which does not extend over the armature region.
Cuticula and hypodermis together compose a very thin outer wall which is thrown into folds so that the larva appears to be superficially annulated.
As well as I could determine these folds are temporary and their number changes with movements of the proboscis though the annulations are always present.
There are no circular muscles to produce them.
The hypodermis is thickened below the spicules and stilets which compose the armature and shows one nucleus at the base of each stilet and each spicule at the base of the stilets St. figs.
36 37 the hypodermis becomes continuous with the axial ectodermic cell mass.
The armature best studied in life or on individuals treated with caustic potash shows three rows of spicules and three stilets figs.
3337.
The first row of spicules Sp.
1 is composed of a circle of six spicules namely a pair of dorsolateral and a pair of dorsoventral spicules and a pair of lateral ones considerably larger than the others.
The second row Sp.
2 is made up of a circle of four spicules a dorsolateral and a ventrolateral pair lying beneath the corresponding pairs of the first row these are the smallest of all the spicules.
The spicules of both of these rows are flattened pointed cuticular plates with slightly thickened margins.
The third row of spicules Sp.
3 is composed of a circle of needlehke spines seven in number one dorsal one pair of dorsolateral one pair of dorsoventral and one pair of closely approximated ventral spicules.
All these spicules project backward when the armature is evaginated.
The three stilets point forward one of them is ventral St.v. figs.
3335 and the others ''fi'Tsolateral St.d..
Each is a slender rod with the proximal end widfeAed but with a depression on each side of the expansion there shapecl ike a human red blood corpuscle  and with the distal end also expanded and bearing on its median surface a series of fine parallel ridges.
The stilets surround a delicate canal at the base of which opens the duct of the gland Gl.d..
The whole armature is an exquisite device for the penetration of the tissues of the host and for moving through them  the stilets penetrating the spicules by their gripping pidiiVig the larva forward.
One does not know which to admire more ke perfection of the larva for occasioning torture or the beneficence of the Providence allowing such torment.
The axis of the proboscis is separated from the outer wall by a space archico
 and is composed of a cord of cells extending from the base of the stilets to the diaphragm figs.
36 37.
That part of this cord nearest the stilets passes over continuously into the hypodermis and is composed of a mass of cells without perceptible boundaries containing a number of large nuclei.
So far as I can determine these are simply undifferentiated ectodermic cells.
The other end of the cord is made up of a numler of long spindleshaped cells Fib.
 attached at one end to the diaphragm  these may serve as elastic retractors of the evaginated armature.
The musculature of the proboscis is composed exclusively of longitudinal filres Mus.
of figs.
36 and 37 the only faintly shaded structures in these drawings of the proboscis.
These muscle cells are too minute for any determination of their finer structure  one can simply determine their long spindle shapes the presence of nuclei in them and the fact that they do not form a continuous layer but are separated from one another though parallel.
Their arrangement is shown in figs.
36 and 37.
All this region anterior to the diaphragm has been called by me the proboscis because evidently the whole is simply an organ for penetration and locomotion in the host even though it composes about onehalf of the body.
There is no entoderm in its constitution except the duct of the gland body situated behind the diaphragm and mesenchvm onlv in the form of the musculature all the remainder is ectodermic.
It has no intestine and no nervous system unless indeed the large cells of the axis may be considered embryonic nerve cells or some of the cells on the anterior surface of the diaphragm.
It is not comparable with a head nor is it to be regarded as a segment of equal morphological value with the headtrunk.
The proof is yet wanting but it will probably be found that this proboscis is the essential larval organ disappearing more or less completely before the adult condition and that the headtrunk is the persisting region.
The posterior headtrunk fig.
36 is bent upon the proboscis as the larva lies within the eggmembranes but by the action of the longitudinal muscles the whole body may be straightened.
Its hypodermis and cuticula is of the same structure as that of the posterior portion of the proboscis except for the presence of two pairs of cuticular hooks H. placed right and left on each side of the posterior end and for the presence of a thickening of the hypodermis.
This thickening Nv.
lies ventral just behind the diaphragm and shows a double row of large nuclei one row to the right and the other to the left of the median line and each row with four to five nuclei.
This thickening is to be regarded as the nervous system of the larva.
It is an ectodermal thickening of definite form in every larva and its ventral position corresponds with the position of the nerve cord of the adult.
There are no other parts of the larva which can be considered nervous unless the large hypodermal cells composing the axis of the proboscis have that function  against which assumption a number of objections might be urged.
This thickening is then a double row of neuroblasts recognizable only on carefully stained preparations nerve fibres cannot be determined.
The longitudinal musclecells Mus.
lie just beneath the hypodermis and terminate anteriorly against the diaphragm.
They have the same appearance as those of the proboscis but are more difficult to perceive particularly those of the dorsal side.
Here also there is no trace of circular muscles.
In the archicffil at the anterior end of the headtrunk is placed a large gland Gl.
 which as we have seen arose as an abstriction from the entodermal canal.
By a long duct fig.
36 Gl.d.
it is connected with the exterior at the base of the stilets St. of the proboscis.
This gland lies free within the archicoel and contains about eight large nuclei cell boundaries are bareh distinguishable and the cytoplasm is dense and stains uniformly.
The long convoluted duct can usually be found onh' in life when it appears as a perfectly clear convoluted line.
On a few preparations however its portion within the gland body was deeply stained by hsematoxyliiie.
It arises near the posterior end of the gland body extends through the length of the latter then piercing the diaphragm extends forward through the archicoel of the proboscis i.e. on the surface of the axial stalk.
Whether this extremely delicate canal is intercellular or intracellular in the gland body I could not ascertain if it were intercellular it would represent a portion of the gastrocoelic cavity.
As to the function of this gland the position of its external aperture at the base of the stilets would point to its being a poison gland.
There is no good reason for judging it to be an excretory organ and indeed we shall see that what are probably excretory masses become stored up within the cavity of the intestine.
The intestine In. fig.
36 of the larva is a closed tube terminating blindly at its anterior end and at its posterior connecting with the cuticula of the body wall without external opening this latter point corresponds with the blastopore Bl..
This posterior end of the intestine appears as a narrow solid stalk with two or four nuclei apposed to its surface.
The wall of the remainder of the intestine is very thin except at the opposite ends where it is thickened and embraces several large nuclei.
Within the intestinal lumen are always present usually two sometimes more large globules Glo.
of a pale brownish color and viscid consistency.
These appear first when the larva is not quite mature as a thinner fluid but subsequently accumulate as homogeneous rounded globules.
These cannot represent food substance for the blastopore is closed and the intestine has no connection with the exterior.
It is then probable they represent products of metabolic waste in which case the intestine of the larva would serve as an excretory reservoir.
Within the archicoel just at the posterior end of the headtrunk is a mass of a few small cells Mus.
 evidently mesenchym cells that have not become specialized they are embryonic and may be germ cells.
Finally the bodycavity of the larva is an archicoel without floating cells and apparently without connective tissue.
There are no mesodermal epithelia mesothelia  and the only transverse septum of the body the diaphragm is ectodcrmic.
3.
Previous Work.
I have not seen the papers of Grube 1849 and Meissner 1856 nor yet the last paper on the early development one in Russian by Tretiakow 1901.
Leidy 1850 1870 gives a very superficial account with no figures of the formation of the larva he noted the proboscis invagination and the spicules ''filaments of the armature.
Villot 1874 was the first to give an extended account of the development of the larva.
He described the formation of the eggstring nid amentum and the appearance of the eggenvelopes and describes the polar bodies as being very variable in number form and volume.
He found the segmentation to be total and equal and leads to a germe formed of two concentric spheres the process of which was not determined ectoderm and entoderm respectively.
He noted the ectodermal invagination at the anterior end of the embryo and interpreted it to be the beginning of the head equivalent to my term proboscis.
His fig.
49 is the most detailed sketch yet given of the structure of the larva.
The whole armature of the proboscis is described very accurately.
But he describes an anterior mouth communicating by an oesophagus with a posterior intestine and the latter by an open anus with the exterior  failing to see the diaphragm and mistaking for an oesophagus the solid axial cord of the proboscis.
He saw correctly the gland and its duct but interpreted it as an excretory organ.
The musculature is noted and the bodycavity described as filled with cells.
His second paper 1891 is mainly a criticism of the work of Camerano.
Camerano 1889 studied the development not quite to the point of the larval stage figures the chromosomes and certain details in the formation of the polar bodies which he finds to be two in number.
The earliest penetration of the spermatozoon he did not see but describes a succession of stages of the two pronuclei and figiues them as of unequal size.
The early cleavage he finds to be quite variable in different eggs though holoblastic.
In regard to the process of gastrulation his results are entirely different from mine.
He finds the embryo at the end of the cleavage to be a flattened plate not a sphere a disk composed of two layers of cells a sterroblastula.
This plate becomes quadrangular instead of circular in outline  then an invagination takes place at one end of the plate which he interprets as a prostoma and concludes the sterroblastula to have become a coelogastrula I can only interpret Camerano's results as follows First that the strong fixatives employed produced flattening of the embryos which I have frequently observed after fixation with acetic acid or strong alcohol second that he did not see the gastrula invagination at all which would take place at the stage of his figs.
43 to 45 and mistook the ectodermal proboscidial invagination for the gastrula cavity.
Villot was in error in describing the true larva as the etat embryonnaire or premiere forme larvaire' and the immature worm found as a parasite in insects the etat larvaire proprement dit or deuxieme forme larvaire.''
Camerano and Vejdovsky 1894 are quite right in insisting in opposition to Villot and von Linstow that the organism as it leaves the eggmembranes is the larva and that thefe is no second larval stage.
That stage is the larva which is equipped with a temporary larval organ the proboscis  all later stages as far as they are known are but progressions toward the adult condition.
4.
Conclusions.
The opinion I had previously expressed 1903 from a study of the adult anatomy of Paragordius was as follows With the Nematoda the Gordiacea have in common only one important structure the tubular genitalia and their opening into the cloaca.
With the Annelida they agree in the structure and innervation of the musculature and in having dorsoventral mesenteries which didde bodycavities bounded by celllayers.
But there is good reason for doubting the homologies of these mesenteries and bodycavities in these two groups of animals.
They differ from the Annelida in showing no trace at all of true metamerism either in the nervous system the bodycavities the genitalia or the body wall  in the absence of a cerebral ganglion of a vascular system of setal sacks or extremities  and very markedly in the structure of the genitalia.
In iew of these facts the Gordiacea cannot be regarded as even highly degenerate Annelida as Vejdo'sky has done nor yet as modified Nematoda the view of most of the writers but must rather be considered a group of isolated position as Grenadier von Siebold and Villot have regarded them.
The present study of the early development confirms this aew but shows that there is considerable correspondence of the cleavage and gastrulation processes wdth those of the Nematoda.
The middle germlayer is not a connected mesoderm but a mesenchym of disconnected cells arising from the mesentoderm close to the blastopore.
The larva has two marked peculiarities.
First by a transverse septum the diaphragm the body is partitioned into an anterior proboscis and a posterior headtrunk.
This proboscis is entirely ectodermal except for mesenchymatous muscles and lacks any nervous system excretory system and any portion of an intestine.
Though it composes half the body it is probably a purely larval organ that takes no part in the adult structure  the diaphragm marks the future boundary of the adult head and the proboscis is precephahc.
A support for this view apart from good anatomical considerations is to be found in the work of Vejdovsky 1894 particularly his fig.
17 this represents an outline of the head of an immature individual showing at the tip of the definitive head the still persisting proboscis with a transverse septum.
The future head and trunk proper then lie behind the proboscis of the larva and this headtrunk becomes the complete body of the adult this we can say certainly even though the early postlarval development is entirely unknown.
This headtrunk has a wall like the proboscis a hypodermis with cuticula and longitudinal mesenchymatous muscle fibres.
There is no coelom no peritoneum or mesenteries.
The nervous system is simply a ventral thickening of the hypodermis.
In the headtrunk is found the second striking peculiarity of the Paragordius larva  a gland connecting by a long duct with the anterior end of the proboscis.
This gland is entodermal arising as an abstriction from the anterior end of the entodermal tube.
In point of origin it resembles an enterocoel a mesoderm sack and its early lumen is a portion of the gastroccel.
But there the resemblance ceases for it becomes a gland evidently secretory and not excretory which later develops a duct to the exterior.
Its origin is unpaired.
The only forms which show a similar unpaired enteroccfil arising from the anterior end of the entoderm tube are the Holothurians and there an outgrowth of a portion hydrocoel of the hydroenterocoel connects it in the form of the stone canal with the exterior.
But it would be a rash comparison in no Avay justified between a Gordiacean and a Holothurian.
This gland probably continues to a late stage of the development under the form of the braune Driise of Gordius described by Vejdovsky but is not homologous with the problematical ''supraintestinal organ that I found in the adult of Paragordius.
When we consider this ectodermal proboscis the cctodermic diaphragm and the enterocoelic gland the absence of any coelomic cavities ciliary wreaths and excretory organs the lack of a mouth and the mesenchymatous musculature we must conclude this union of characters to make the Gordiacean larva unique not closely comparable with any other larva.
If my interpretation of the larva is correct then the early postlarval development which has yet to be studied should show the mouth arising in the plane of the diaphragm probably as an ectodermic stomodseum the dorsal commissure of the brain developing in the same region and the reproductive organs arising from the small mass of mesenchym cells at the posterior end.
But the point of most importance that remains to be investigated is the first origin of that tissue so peculiar to the Gordiacea the ''parenchym and its arrangement into layers.
Not until that is done can the structure of the adult be adequately interpreted.
Literature List.
Camerano L. 1889.
I primi momenti della evoluzione clei Gordii.
Mem.
Real.
Accad.
Sci.
Torino XL.
Idem.
1892.
Ricerche intorno al parasitismo ed alio sviluppo del Gordius pustulosus.
Atti Accad.
Sci.
Torino.
Grube.
1849.
IJeber einige Anguillulen und die Entwickelung von Gordius aquaticus.
Arch.
Naturg. 29.
Hautmann M. 1902.
Studien am thierischen Ei.
1 Ovarialei und Eireifung von Asterias glacialis.
Zool.
Jahrb. 15.
Leidy J.
1850.
Notes on the Development of the Gordius aquaticus.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
Idem.
1870.
The Gordius or Hairworm.
Aiuer.
Entoni.
and Bot. 2.
LiNSTOW O. V. 1890.
Ueber die Entwickelungsgeschichte und die Anatomic von Gordius tolosanus.
Arch.
mikr.
Anat. 34.
Idem.
1891.
Weitere Beobachtungen an Gordius tolosanus und NIermis.
Ibid. 37.
Meissner.
1856.
Beitrage zur Anatomie und Phj'siologie der Gordiaceen.
Zeit.
viss.
Zool. 3.
Montgomery T. H. Jr. 1898.
Comparative Cj'tological Studies with Especial Regard to the Morphology of the Nucleolus.
Joiirn.
Morph. 15.
Idem.
1903.
The Adult Organization of Paragordius varius Leidy.
Zool.
Jahrb. 18.
Tretiakow D. 1901.
Trav.
Soc.
Imp.
Natural.
St. Petersbourg 32.
Vejdovsky F. 1894.
Organogenie der Gordiiden.
Zeit.
tviss.
Zool. 57.
ViLLOT A.
1874.
Monographie des Dragonweaux.
Arch.
Zool.
Exper. 3.
Idem.
1891.
L'Evolution des Gordiens.
Ann.
Sci.
Nat. Zool.
Explanation of Plates XLIX and L. The following abbreviations have been emplojed in the figures  BL blastopore.
Cut. cuticula.
Di. diaphragm.
Fib. fibre cells.
Gl gland.
Gl.d. gland duct.
Glo. globules within intestine.
H. cuticular hooks.
Ily. hypodermis.
In. intestine.
Mes. mesenchjmi cells.
Mus. musculature.
Nv. nervous thickening of hypodermis.
Sp.
1Sp.
3 spicules of rows 13.
St.d. dorsal stilets.
St. v. ventral stilet.
All the figures except 3335 are camera lucida drawings at a magnification of 1312 diameters.
Plate XLIX Fig.
1.
 Ovocyte from lateral diverticulum of ovary at end of the growth period the yolk globules shaded.
Figs.
25.
 Nuclei in successive prophases preceding the formation of the first polar body.
Fig.
6.
 Portion of an egg near the proximal end of the cloaca showing the first polar spindle and the entering spermatozoon.
Fig.
7.
 Pole view of the first polar spindle.
Fig.
S.  Outline of the whole egg from a posterior end of the cloaca showing the two eggmembranes first polar spindle and spermatozoon.
Fig.
9.
 Portion of the periphery of an egg showing first polar body formed.
Fig.
10.
 Outline of egg showing second polar spindle sperm nucleus and separated from the surface of the egg the two membranes.
Fig.
11.
 Pole view of second polar spindle.
Fig.
12.
 Outline of egg sperm nucleus and expulsion of second polar body.
Figs.
13 14.
 Outline of eggs second polar body on surface egg nucleus at right sperm nucleus at left in both figures.
Fig.
15.
 Prophase of first cleavage seven chromosomes in each nucleus sperm nucleus at left egg nucleus at right  yolk globules shaded.
Fig.
IG.
 First cleavage spindle and second polar body.
Figs.
1719. 2cell 4cell and Scell stages.
Fig 20.
 Optical section of a blastula.
Fig.
21.
 16cell stage.
Figs.
2224.
 Successive gastrula stages optical median section..
Figs.
2527.
 Optical median sections of later gastrulaj showing the early formation of mesenchym cells shaded.
Fig.
28.
 Optical median section at stage of ectodermal thickening mesenchym shaded.
Fig.
29. Optical median section at stage of beginning ectodermal invagination mesenchym shaded.
Figs.
3032.
 Similar views of successive later stages.
Figs.
3335. Freehand drawings to show the armature of the proboscis in extended position.
33 slightly oblique ventral view 34 view from the right side  35 slightly oblique dorsal view.
Plate L Fig.
36.
 Freehand drawing on a much larger scale than on the preceding plate of a larva from the right side with the proboscis fully extended.
Fig.
37.
 Similar drawing of the proboscis in invaginated condition.
November 1.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M.D. in the Chair.
Twentyfour persons present.
The deaths of Samuel W. Woodhousc M.D. October 23 Ralph F. Cullinan October 30 and A. F. Mueller M.D. October 20 members were announced.
Mr. Witmer Stone made a communication on the birds of the Galapagos Islands.
No abstract.
November 15.
The President.
Samuel G. Dixon M.D. in the Chair.
Twentyseven persons present.
Mr. Stewardson Brown spoke of the betweentide plants of the Delaware river.
No abstract.
Nominations of Officers Councillors and members of the Committee on Accounts were made to be balloted for at the annual meeting.
The following was accepted for pubhcation NEW EARE OE LITTLE KNOWN SCOMBROIDS.
No.
1.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
The present paper is one of a series now in preparation which will be intended to give accounts of the more interesting Scombroids contained in the collection of the The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
While a few of the species appear to be new others are rare and some are of value in establishing identifications of older naturalists.
I have framed complete descriptions of some species which have at all times needed elucidation while a number of others are supplemented with notes.
Changes in nomenclature which appear necessary are given.
In such cases some are due entirely to a rigid adherence to the original orthography.
In the introduction of several new subgenera it may be remembered that where transitional forms occur like those in the older conception of Caranx the better defined groups possibly of different lines of descent had at least best be indicated even if only provisionally.
SCOMBRID.
SCOMBRIN..
Subgenus SCOMBER Linnaus.
Scomber scombrus Linnaeus.
Syst.
Nat. Ed.
X 1758 p. 297.
In Oceauo Atlantico.
Bonaparte.
Cat.
Met.
Pesc.
Europ. Napoli 1846 p. 73.
Five examples from Italy.
Bonaparte Coll.
No.
386..
Dr. T. B. Wilson.
Subgenu.s PNEUMATOPHORUS Jordan and Gilbert.
Scomber kanagurta Ruppell.
Atl.
Reis.
Nordl.
Af. Fisch. 1828 p. 93.
Gonil'uda.
Red Sea.
Fowler Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. XII 2 1904 p. 506 PI.
12 upper figure.
Head 3yV depth 4 D. VIIII 11 5 A. I 11 5 P. i 20 V. i 5 scales about 148 in lateral series to base of caudal about 13 scales in a transverse series between origin of second dorsal and lateral line about 24
scales between lateral line and origin of anal width of head 2 in its length depth of head H snout 3 eye 3 maxillary 2h mandible If interorbital space 3 depressed dorsal If base of second dorsal 2j base of anal 2yV pectoral 2 damaged ventral 2 least depth of caudal peduncle 8.
Body elongate rather deep compressed and greatest depth near middle of its length.
Caudal peduncle small its width f its depth.
Head triangular deep and compressed and profiles evenly though slightly convex above and below.
Snout long conic sides becoming compressed and top of head flattened anteriorh.
Eye high nearly touching upper profile and a little anterior.
louth moderate its gape reaching about half way in space between tip of snout and front rim of pupil.
Preorbital long of about even width and groove extending about opposite middle of eye.
Maxillary when exposed reaching front rim of orbit but when mouth is closed reaching front rim of pupil and entirely concealed posteriorly by preorbital.
Teeth small conic rather few and uniserial in jaws.
Tongue small anterior elongate tip rounded and free.
No teeth on roof of mouth.
Nostrils lateral and space between each moderate.
Anterior circular about midway between tip of snout and front of eye.
Posterior a short vertical slit.
Interorbital space broad flattened or onl slightly concave in middle.
Top of head posterior to eyes convex.
Gillopening large its posterior margin forming a vertical undulation leaving a large flap at lower corner and extending forward till nearly opposite posterior nostril.
Shoulder girdle furnished with two broad fleshy processes with a rather broad space between.
Isthmus long and thin but without a sharp edge.
Rakers 13  23 long though a little shorter than longest filaments or about equal to space between tip of snout and posterior nostril.
Rakers compressed rather attenuate and furnished with a series of fine pointed and rather flexible bristles on each inner edge.
Filaments longest on middle of ceratobranchial.
Pseud obranchise about equal to space between tip of snout and anterior nostril.
Airbladder rather large.
Scales small all narrowly imbricated those about pectoral and just behind gillopening enlarged.
Scales below second dorsal small.
Cheeks and top of head scaly rest of head naked.
Lateral line conciurent with back till after first dorsal then inclined straight to base of caudal.
A short keel at base of each caudal lobe laterally.
Pectoral without flap but with a ridge along scales above to its tip.
Soft dorsal and anal covered with minute scales other fins except pectoral naked.
Adipose eyelid large leaving only middle third of eye exposed.
Dorsal spines slender pungent first two close together third longest and others graduated to last which is short.
Depressable in a groove which extends well beyond its tip when fin is depressed and origin falling a little nearer base of soft dorsal than tip of snout or about over first f of pectoral.
Second dorsal small inserted nearer origin of pectoral than base of caudal and anterior rays elevated.
Spine weak.
Finlets of both dorsal and anal similar at equal distances and last longest.
Anal similar to soft dorsal inserted about midway between origin of pectoral and base of caudal or a little behind origin of soft dorsal.
Pectoral high small and reaching beyond middle of base of spinous dorsal.
Ventral low inserted a trifle behind
origin of pectoral.
Caudal small deeply emarginate.
Color when fresh in arrack blueblack above with many round deep or darker spots than bodycolor and area above well separated from lower surface of bodj by a sharp line of demarcation which reaches lateral line below first finlets.
Sides of head trunk and caudal peduncle together with all of lower surface of bod silverywhite.
Dorsal caudal and pectoral grayish latter especially on its outer and inside basally blackish.
Ventral and anal whitish.
Inside of gillopening grayish.
Peritoneum silvery.
Length 8 inches.
Thirtyone examples but all of the others young.
Padang Sumatra.
Coll.
A. C. Harrison Jr. and Dr. H. M. Hiller.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
and Stanford University.
In the example described above I found a small Lciognathus ly inches in length.
It was taken from the gullet.
I provisionally adopt the name Scomber kanagurta though derived from Russell's Indian fish and based on that of the Red Sea by Riippell who subsequently described S. chrysozonus and S. microlepidotus from the same place.
Kner recorded the latter from the Nicobars and Hong Kong and Bleeker from Pinang. Dr. Steindachner considers both identical wdth S. loo and Day united all three with S. kanagurta S. moluccensis and S. reani though Dr. Klunzinger separated S. microlepidotus retaining S. kanagurta and S. chrysozonus as distinct.
Dr. iIeek records microlepidotus from Aden. One of his examples now in the Museum of Stanford University I have examined.
It has exceedingly long gillrakers the longest almost equal to snout and one Kanagurta Russell Fishes of Coromandel II 1803 p. 28 PI.
136.
 Neue Wirbelthiere Fisch. 1835 p. 37 PI.
11 fig.
1.
Massaua.
Red Sea.
 L. c p. 38 PL 11 fig.
2.
Massaua.
 Reis.
Freg.
Norara ZooL I 1865 p. 143.
5 Versl.
Kon.
Ak.
Wet. XII 1861 p. 74.
Record.
 Sifz.
Ak.
Wiss.
TFten LVII 1868 p 987.
Rothen Meere. '
Fishes of India.
II 1876 p. 250.
L. c. in Supplement 1888 p. 790.
 Bleeker Act.
Soc.
Sci.
Ind.
Neerl.
Besch.
Yisch.
Amboina I 1856 p. 40.
Amboina in mari.
M. Dnijmaer Van Twist.
 Day Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London 1870 p 441.
10 Field Mus.
Pub. 22 ZooL Ser.
I No.
8 Nov. 1897 p. 172.
Record.
third of orbit.
In number about 30 on lower part of first arch.
Shoulder girdle inside gillopening nearly smooth and with obsolete processes.
Later Dr. Meek kindly examined the other examples which are at present in the Field Columbian Museum and informs me that the gillrakers are long and numerous longest reaching from tip of snout to middle of pupil 2 to 2f in head.
SARDIN.E.
Auxis bisus Rafinesque.
Scomber bisus Rafinesque Carat.
Alcun.
Nuov.
Gen. Spec.
Animal.
Piant.
Sicilia 1810 p. 45 PI.
2 fig.
1.
Palermo.
Aitxis bisus Bonaparte Cat.
Met.
Pesc.
Europ. Napoli 184G p. 74.
Head measured from tip of upper jaw' 4 depth about 4 D. XIiv 7 8  A. IV 9 7  P. i 20  V. i 5  width of head 1 in its length  depth of head at posterior margin of preopercle 1 snout 4 orbit 5 interorbital space 4 base of rayed dorsal without finlets 3 base of anal without finlets 5 mandible 2f  least depth of caudal peduncle 3 in snout.
This example agrees with Goode's figure except that the origin of the spinous dorsal would fall nearer the tip of the depressed pectoral than its base.
Length 19 inches.
Italy.
Bonaparte Coll.
 V.
Dr. T. B. Wilson.
On comparison with a single example from Newport Rhode Island collected by Samuel Powel and agreeing with Goode's figure  this difference is still carried out.
However the Newport example is only about 12 inches long and thus it may be accounted for by age.
Goode's figure does not show the keel above the base of the pectoral fin and parallel w'ith the upper margin of the same fin.
It is more distinct and extends further posteriorly in my Italian example.
I retain Rafinesque's name provisionally until more material is compared as it is possible that the East Indian form' may be different.
PELAMYS Walbaum.
Ivlein in Walbaum Pet.
Arted.
Gen.
Pise. Ill 1792 p. 584.
Type here affixed is Scornber pelamis Linnteus.
Gijvmosarda Gill Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1862 p. 125 unicolor.
Pelamys alleterata Rafinesque.
Scomber alleteratus Rafinesque Carat.
Alcun.
Nuov.
Gen. Spec.
Animal.
Piant.
Sicilia 1810 p. 40.
Palermo.
Scomber aletteratus Rafinesque I. c PI.
2 fig.
3. 
I do not know whether this name is later than Scomber rochet Risso or not.
Rafinesque's preface is dated April 1 1810 1' Also measured in same manner for the other comparisons.
 Fishery Indust.
U.S. Nat.
Hist.
Aquat.
Animal I 1884 PL 92 upper figure.
 Scomber thazard Lacepede Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. IT 1800 p. 599.
L. c III 1800 p. 9.
Vers le septieme degr de latitude australe aupres des rivages de la NouvelU'Guinee.
Two examples from the island of St. Thomas West Indies.
The' agree and both differ from the following example in the smaller head which is at least 3f in its own length and that of the trunk.
Pelamys afl6ne Cantor.
Thfnnus affims Cantor Journ.
Ass.
Soc.
Bengal Cat.
Malay.
Fish XVIII 1850 p. 106.
Sea of Pinang.
Giinther Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus.. II 1860 p. 363.
Type.
I provisionally retain this as a distinct form from that of the Atlantic.
Cantor's fish may be identical though East Indian and Micronesian examples need comparison.
The single example from Honolulu now before me has a larger head than the West Indian examples being contained less than 3 or about 3 in the length of head and trunk.
Dr. Giinther's figure of an example from the Seychelles shows the pectoral high in position its origin level with the upper margin of the eye a character which I have not observed as yet in any examples of Pelamys.
Germo germon Lacpfede.
ScombeT germon Lacepede Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. II 1800 p. .598.
No locality.
Scomber germo Lacepede .
c IV 1803 p. 1.
Le grand Ocean austral imprpprement appele mer Pacifique vers le vingtseptieme degre de latitude nieridionale et le cent troisieme de longitude.
Eastern Indian Ocean.
Germo germon Fowler Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. XII 2 1904 p. 506 PI.
8 lower figure.
Head 3 depth 4 D. XIIIiii 11 9 A. iii 11 8 P. i 31 V. i 5 about 158 scales in a lateral series to base of keel on caudal peduncle width of head H in its length depth of head 1 snout 3 eye 5f  maxillary 2h mandible 2 interorbital space 2 first dorsal spine 2 height of soft dorsal measured from middle of its base 2f  height of anal 2 least depth of caudal peduncle about lOf  width of caudal peduncle measured across keels at their widest part 4 ventral 2h pectoral 3y in body space between tip of caudal lobes when expanded Body elongate broad fusiform thick and greatest depth about middle of its length.
Caudal peduncle broad depressed and with a broad cutaneous keel on each side.
Head deep conic and sides compressed.
Snout conic sides hardly compressed.
Eye anterior high with narrow adipose eyelids and its posterior margin midway in length of head.
Mouth oblique tip c mandible even with snout and maxillary reaching posteriorly till opposite first third of eye.
Maxillary with its upper portion slipping under preorbital its distal expanded extremity f of orbit and with a 15 Journ.
Mus.
Godef.
Fische der Sudsee V 1876 PI.
95.
49 short oblique groove from its lower angle.
Teeth small conic sharp and uniserial in jaws.
Vomer with a patch of minute teeth.
Palatines with similar elongate and narrow patches.
Tongue free elongate thick and broadly rounded in front.
Anterior nostril nearer front rim of pupil than tip of snout.
Posterior a vertical slit a little less than half of orbit and placed in last third of space between its front rim and anterior nostril.
Interorbital space and entire top of head convex.
Gillopening deep broad and extending forward till opposite space between nostrils.
Rakers 516 compressed pointed and longest f of orbit.
Filaments numerous long and longest a trifle longer than eye.
Pseudobranchise about f of eye.
Isthmus long slender and with rounded edge.
Scales minute and cycloid those forming small corselet greatly enlarged anteriorly.
Soft dorsal and anal together with base and middle of caudal covered with minute elongate scales.
Lateral line superior and convex at first then extending down on middle of side of caudal peduncle to keel.
Base of caudal with a low keel above and below.
A narrow scaly keel above upper pectoral ray running back for about f length of fin.
Scales on outside basal portions of ventrals enlarged.
Head naked and cheek with long narrow horizontal lundles of muscular fibres.
Spinous dorsal depressable in a groove anterior spine longest enlarged close to second and others from third all shorter and further apart.
Insertion of spinous dorsal nearly midway between front margin of eye and origin of soft dorsal which falls well in front of that of anal or midway between front rim of orbit and base of caudal.
Finlets similar evenly distributed and with a long point behind.
Caudal broad lunate strong and lobes narrow.
Pectoral long and reaching origin of anal.
Ventral small strong inserted a little behind origin of pectoral and fitting in a depression on belly.
Color when fresh in arrack faded probally.
Back and upper surface apparently faded steelgray.
Side grayish with round whitish spots on side of abdomen.
Lower surface silverywhite.
Dorsal and caudal duskybrown.
Upper finlets grayish lower whitish with a gray blotch.
Anal grayish.
Pectoral blackishgray 'entrals white with gray membranes.
Keel on caudal peduncle blackish.
Peritoneum pale.
Length 17 inches.
One example from Padang Sumatra.
Coll.
A. C. Harrison Jr. and Dr. H. M. HiUer.
This form has never been compared with the Atlantic fish in view of which it would seem best to retain Lacepede's name for the Indian form.
Bennet records a fish from Polynesia which may probably be identical. Sarda sarda Bloch.
Scomber sarda Bloch Naturg.
Ausl.
Fisch. VII X 1793 p. 44 PL 334.
Im mittlandischen als audi im atlandischen Meere.
Pelamys sarda Bonaparte Cat.
Met.
Pesc.
Europ. Napoli 1846 p. 74.
Head about 4 snout 3in head eye 7 maxillary 2 interorbital space 4yVLength about 18f inches.
Italy.
Bonaparte Coll.
4.
Dr. T. B. Wilson.
This single dried example is in poor condition.
It agrees with Goode's figure so far as one is able to judge from its preservation.
Germo alatunga Gmelin.
Scomber alatunga Gmelin Sj'st.
Nat.
Linn. I 1788 p. 1330.
Periodice gregarius in mari mediterraneo migrans edulis.
Thynnus alalonga Bonaparte Cat.
Met.
Pesc.
Europ. Napoli 1846 p. 74.
Head 3 depth about 4f  D. XViii 119 A. iii 11 7 P. ii 32 V. I 5 width of head If in its length depth of head at posterior margin of eyesocket about 2  snout 31 eyesocket 4J maxillary 2f  interorbital space about middle of eyesocket 4 mandible 2 greatest width of caudal peduncle 7 pectoral 3 in space between tip of snout and base of caudal.
Origin of spinous dorsal inserted posterior to origin of pectoral a distance about equal to h length of snout.
Origin of the anal would fall about opposite base of last dorsal ray.
First two dorsal finlets small especially the first which is like that of Germo germon Ridge along upper edge of pectoral distinct nearly to tip of fin.
Color obsolete though pale blotches on side of abdomen seem to be separated by oblique lines.
Length 27 inches.
Italy.
Bonaparte Coll.
.
Dr. T. B. Wilson.
Goode's figure'' is rather poor.
It shows the origin of the spinous dorsal opposite that of the pectoral and the pectoral fin reaching opposite the first dorsal finlet which is also not especially smaller than the ' Other references are probably Thynnus pacificus Cuvier Hist.
Xaf.
Poiss. VIII 1831 p. 96.
Based on Commerson.
Thynnus argentivittatus Cuvier I. c p. 97.
La mer des Indies.
M. Dussumier.
Part.
Scomber germo Bennett Nar.
Whaling Voyage II 1840 p. 278.
Coasts of the Polynesian Islands. 
Fishery hidust.
U. S. Nat.
Hist.
Aquat.
Animal I 1884 PI.
92 lower figure.
' The head is here measured for all comparisons of this species from tip of snout.
'Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. XII 2 1904 PL 8 lower figure.
 Fishery Indust.
U. S. Nat.
Hist.
Aquat.
Animal I 1884 PL 95A.
others.
The scales above the base of the pectoral are much larger and those directly above in the corselet are on the contrary indicated as smaller.
I adopt Gmelin's original spelling as there is no evidence that it is an imintentional error though of course incorrect.
Subgenus SCOMBEROMORUS Lacpfede.
Gillrakers 8 to 12 on first arch below angle.
Dorsal spines XVII or XVIII.
Teeth 30 to 40 in each jaw.
Lateral line somewhat wavy and descending obliquely.
Soomberomorus argyreus sp.
nov.
Plate LI lower figure.
Head 4 depth 4 D. XVIIiii 13 8 A. v 138 P.i20 V. i 5 width of head 2f in its length depth of head If snout 3 orbit 4 maxillary If mandible If interorbital space 3f  fourth dorsal spine 2 third simple dorsal ray 2 height of anal fin damaged 2 least depth of caudal peduncle 4.
Body apparently compressed rather deep profiles similar and greatest depth between origins of soft dorsal and anal.
From this point back tail well compressed especially small caudal peduncle.
Latter with depth about  of its length measured to end of last vertebra.
Head a little small compressed apparently and triangular anteriorly in profile.
Snout sharply conic equal to about 1 eyediameters.
In front this is formed by broad maxillaries which project well forward to form pointed tip of snout.
Eye circular a little high and a little anterior.
Mouth large and mandible even with tip of snout in front.
Maxillary extending posteriorly till opposite posterior rim of orbit slipping below orbital rim for good portion of its length and width of distal extremity f of diameter of pupil.
Teeth compressed 2qEi9 ii jaws.
Tongue rather broad obtuse thick small and a little free in front.
Patches of very minute teeth on vomer palatines and pterygoids.
Tongue almost perfectly smooth but surfaces of branchial bones in pharynx finely asperous.
Nostrils distinct well separated.
Anterior circular and a little less than diameter of pupil from front of eye.
Posterior a vertical slit close in front of eye also a little less in length than half of pupil.
Interorbital space broad and elevated convexly a little.
Margin of opercle rounded posteriorly hardly forming a blunt angle.
Gillopening extending far forward till opposite anterior nostril.
Rakers small i 3hl2 longest  length of longest filament rather far apart and not sharp.
Longest filaments about i of orbit.
Pseudobranchiae well developed though a little smaller.
Isthmus long sharp and trenchant.
Scales not evident except in lateral line where they are very small.
Tubes small.
A few small scales above base of pectoral behind gillopening and along base of spinous dorsal.
Lateral line a little high at first then sloping down gradually behind soft dorsal wavy to base of caudal though median and not forming a keel.
Pectoral with distinct axillary cavity.
Inner ventral ray well adnate to abdomen by means of membrane.
Eye without adipose eyelid but skin on postocular region just behind eye adiposelike.
Spinous dorsal inserted well forward about midway between tip of snout and origin of soft dorsal a little behind that of pectoral anterior spines longer than others first two close together and fourth longest.
Base of fin depressable in scaly sheath.
Soft dorsal inserted a little in advance of that of soft anal nearly midway between front margin of orbit and base of caudal anterior rays highest graduated down from first developed ones.
Anal similar also finlets.
Caudal broad deeply forked lobes slender their outer edges straight and tips pointed.
Pectoral broad high and upper rays longest first simple and enlarged.
Ventral small inserted well behind origin of pectoral or about under its posterior base and rays stout.
Color in alcohol back and uppermost surface rather light brown without traces of spots or markings.
Lower surface including greater portion of sides bright silverywhite.
Greater part of head with silvery.
Fins pale or dilute warm olivebrown except spinous dorsal.
Latter whitish except upper anterior portion which is blackishbrown.
Pectoral with brownish especially proximally.
Ends of elevated soft dorsal and caudal lobes dusky.
Ventral and anal whitish.
Iris dilute brassywhite.
Peritoneum pale or silvery.
Length 7 inches.
Type No.
11400 A. N. S. P. West coast of Africa.
Dr. Savage.
One example which differs from Scomberomorus tritor Cuvier' in the fin radii.
That fish cannot be identical with Scomberomorus cavalla Cuvier as claimed by Dresslar and Feslar if the original figure is correct as it shows the depth about 4.
Bleeker's fish is closer though it may be different.
This latter agrees best with S. argyreus.
Apodontis may represent a distinct subgenus as it is said to have strong conical teeth . iApybpioq silvered.
 Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. VIII 1831 p. 129 PI.
218.
2 Bull.
U. S. Fish Comm. VII 1887 1889 p. 444.
23 Nat.
Verh.
Hoi.
Maat.
Wet.
Haarlem XVIII 1863 p. 72. 
Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London 1 18301 pp.
146 169.
Scomberomorus guttatus Schneider.
Scomber yidtatus Schneider Syst.
Ichth.
Blooh ISOl p. 23 PI.
5.
Ad Trauquebariam pelagius inter saxa.
Head 4f  depth 4J D. XVIIiv.
15 8 A. v 14 9 P. i 20 V. i 5 width of head 2 in its length depth of head 1 snout 2f  eye 5 maxillary li mandible If interorbital space 3 least depth of caudal peduncle 4 pectoral ly ventral about 3.
Gillrakers 2  9 short barely half length of filaments.
Color when fresh in arrack deep slatyglaucous above side and lower surface of body silverywhite.
Back and upper portion of sitle with numerous round spots or elongate blotches of deep glaucous nnich deeper than ground color.
Fu'st dorsal black.
Soft dorsal caudal and pectoral grayish.
Lower finlets ventral and anal whitish and upper finlets somewhat grayish.
Length 13f inches.
Four examples two of which are young.
The latter have the body plaincolored hardly evidences of spots or only a few illdefined darker blotches.
Spinous dorsal deep black except white posterior base.
Lateral line not forming a scaly keel on side of caudal peduncle and no keels at bases of caudal lobes.
Adult with 27 teeth in upper jaw.
Padang Sumatra.
Coll.
A. C. Harrison Jr. and Dr. H. L Hiller.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
and Stanford University.
Scomberomorus regalis Bloch.
Scomber regalis Bloch.
Naturg.
Ausl.
Fisch. MI X 1793 p. 3S PI.
333.
Based on Pater Plunuer's MS. and evidently from the West Indies.
Head 4i depth 4 D. XVIIv 12 S A. v. 14.
8 eye 5 in head snout 2 maxillary li interorbital space 3f.
Gillrakers 3  12.
Teeth in jaws jgiij.
Maxillary reaching posterior margin of eye.
A dark longitudinal line just below dark color of back toward caudal peduncle where it becomes obsolete.
Iris pale brassy.
Lobe of soft dorsal above blackishbrown.
Length 9f inches.
One example from San Domingo West Indies.
Prof. W. M. Gabb.
SIERRA subgen.
nov.
Type Cybium cavalla Cuvier.
Less than 8 gillrakers below angle on first arch.
Dorsal spines XIV or XVI.
Teeth about 30 in each jaw.
Lateral line abruptly descending below soft dorsal.
Sierra Spanish saw.
Applied to these fishes by the Mexicans in the United States corrupted into Cero.
Scomberomorus cavalla Cuvier.
Cybium cavalla Cuvier Regne Animal.
II.
Ed.
II.
1829 p. 200.
Basedon Guarapucu Marcgrave.
Hist.
Xat.
Brasil. 164S p. 178.
Brazil.
Cybium acervum Cope Trans.
Amer.
Philcs.
Soc XIV 1871 p. 472.
Head 4f  depth 4 D. XVvi 12 9 A. v 14 8 snout 2f in head eye 5 maxillary 1 interorbital space 3 pectoral U. Gillrakers 1  7 on first arch.
Lobe of soft dorsal deep brown.
Length 15 inches.
San Domingo West Indies.
Prof. W. M. Gabb.
Also a smaller example with same data.
The three examples recorded from St. Martins West Indies are also identical.
They have depth 4 to 4 D. XV one XVI and rakers 2  6 one 7 more or less rudimentary.
LEMNISOMID fam.
nom.
nov.'s LEMNISOMIX.E subfam.
nom.
nov. LEMNISOMA Lesson.
Voy.
Aut.
Mond.
Coquille.
ZooL.
July 25 1827 p. 160 thyraitoides.
Gempylus Cuvier Regne Animal II Ed.
II 1829 p. 200 serpens.
Lemnisoma serpens Cuvier.
Plate LI upper figure.
Gempylus serpens Cuvier I. c. Based on Serpens marinus etc.
Sloane Voy.
Jam. I 1707 p. 26 PI 1 fig.
2.
About the Tropick of Cancer.
Gempylus ophidianus Poev Mem.
Hist.
Nat.
Cuba II 185658 1861 p. 246 PI.
18 fig.
1 head.
Cuba.
Head damaged about 5 depth about 17 D. XXXII in 10 6 A. I. II 9 7 P. II 12 V. I 4 width of head about o in its length depth of head about 3 mandible about If pectoral about 2 lower caudal lobe damaged about If snout about ly in head measured from tip of upper jaw eye about of maxillary about 1 interorbital space about 7 damaged least depth of caudal peduncle about 8 seventh dorsal spine about 4.
Body very elongate strongly compressed and trunk of nearly uniform depth.
Caudal peduncle compressed its least depth about 4 its length measured from base of last lower finlet.
Head compressed attenuate and profiles of both jaws nearly straight upper a little concave above nostrils.
Snout long conic and pointed.
Eye apparently circular high close to upper profile and its anterior margin a little posterior in middle of length of head.
Mouth large not completely closing and large mandible with a rather large hard conic fleshy point produced well beyond in front tip of upper jaw fitting in lower anteriorly.
laxillary reaching a little beyond front rim of orbit slipping below thin edge of preorbital for good portion of its length and its distal expanded extremity about equal to infraorbital space.
Teeth ji  '
.
compressed uniserial broad sharp pointed and three mediardy in front of upper jaw enlarged and posteriorly along edges barbed.
A series of small irregular teeth on palatines none on vomer.
Tongue long 2 Lemnisoma Lesson has priority over Gempylus Cuvier if identical thus the above changes.
Their generic status however needs investigation.
It may also be noted that Gempylince Jordan and Evermann must give place to Lemnifominoe.
slender smooth and united to floor of mouth by membrane only tip free.
Nostrils small far apart.
Anterior circular high on side of snout and about 4 of an eyediameter before front rim of orbit.
Posterior a small vertical slit in last third of space between anterior and front rim of orbit.
Interorbital space a little broad and somewhat convex.
Gillopening large.
Rakers rather few small irregular obsolete pricks.
Filaments about f of orbital diameter.
Pseudobranchise well developed but smaller.
Pharyngeal teeth in elongated series and thornlike.
Narrow thin elongate small scales only evident on caudal peduncle and base of caudal.
Lateral line double and originating opposite base of first dorsal spine.
Upper branch extends high along back till opposite anterior elongated dorsal rays where it suddenly becomes incomplete.
Lower branch till it becomes median along side well behind pectoral then continuing straight to base of caudal.
Origin of spinous dorsal about an eyediameter or possibly a trifle more in advance of that of pectoral and base of fin about equal to  of total length of specimen.
Spines placed rather far apart slender longest about f to f of depth of body and margin of fin not notched membranes forming an entire edge.
Posteriorly spines become shorter so that soft dorsal is distinct.
Entire fin depressable in a groove.
Soft dorsal inserted near last f of total length elevated anteriorly and rays graduated from second simple one which is longest.
Finlets slender rather high and posterior margin of each adnate to back by a membrane.
A small rudimentary spine a short distance in front of soft anal.
Soft anal inserted opposite and similar to soft dorsal.
Caudal forked rudimentary rays strong and with a slight elevation laterally on base at terminus of lateral line.
Pectoral small falcate and upper rays much longer than others.
entral rudimentary inserted a little behind base of pectoral and spine strong though short.
Color in alcohol brown with traces of leadensilvery and lack apparently brown.
Top of head brown.
Dorsal brown caudal brownish and anal pale brown.
Pectoral brownisli a little darker basally.
Iris dull slaty.
Peritoneimi pale brownish.
Length 31f inches.
One example from San Domingo West Indies.
Prof. W. .
Gabb.
This rare species is only known since originally described from the accounts by Pocy and Liitken.
The Polynesian form Gempylus coluber Cuvier considered identical by Dr. Giinther needs comparison.
'Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. VIII 1831 p. 155 PL 221. 
Journ.
Mus.
Godef.
Fische der Siidsee IV 1S75 p. 106 PL 68 fig.
B.
769 1904.
Dr. Giinther's figure does not indicate the maxillary reaching the front of the orbit and the small scales on the caudal peduncle and base of the caudal.
It shows what is probably intended for the lateral line originating apparently opposite and level with the base of the pectoral but no dorsal branch is indicated.
Poey also pointed out that the example figiued by Valenciennes  if correct must be different from L. serpens.
Dr. Waite has pertinent remarks concerning this species in Australian waters. ISTIOPHORID.
Istiophorus nigricans Lacpfede.
Makaira nigricaris Lacpede Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. IV 1803 p. rivage de la mer voisin de la Rochelle.
M.
Traversay.
Sur un Fig.
1.
 Istiophorus nigricans Lacepede.
Head figured above of an example without data.
Tetrapturus imperator Schneider.
Xiphias imperator Schneide mari Mediterraneo.
 Tetrapturus bclone Bonaparte Cat.
Met.
Peso.
Europ. Napoli 1846 p. 80 Xiphias imperator Schneider Syst.
Ichth.
Bloch 1801 p. 93 PI.
21.
In mari Mediterraneo.
 Fig.
2.
 Tetrapturus imperator Schneider.
A dried head figured above very probably belonging to the old Bonaparte collection as it bears the number 457.
28 mane Aniinal Ed.
Grav. 18 descr.
PI.
49 fig.
2.
Rec.
Austral.
Mus. VIII 7 June 15 1900 p. 199.
Also see reference I c Y 3 March 11 1904 p. 198 based on same example.
5 Based on De I'Empereur ou Poisson a Epee Duhamel du Monceau and de Lamarre Trait.
Gen.
Pesch. IV suite de la second partie tome III section  176982 p. 333 PI.
25 fig.
2.
Mediterranee.
XIPHIID.
Xiphias gladius Linnaeus.
Syst.
Nat Ed.
X 1758 p. 248.
In Oceano Europse.
Bonaparte Cat.
Met.
Pesc.
Europ. Napoli 1846 p. SO.
Two examples from Italy Bonaparte Coll.
Nos.
367 and .
Dr. T. B. Wilson.
One of these is a dried skin about 3 feet in length.
LEPIDOPID.
Lepidopus caudatus Euphrasen.
Trichiurus caudatus Euphrasen Kon.
Schwed.
Akad.
Wiss.
Abhaiidl. IX 1788 p. 48 PL 9 upper figure.
In Oceano ad Cap.
b. Spei.
Lepidopus ensiformis Bonaparte Cat.
Met.
Pesc.
Europ. Napoli 1846 p. 78.
Several examples in the Bonaparte Coll.
from Dr. Wilson.
Italy.
TRICHIURID.
TRICHIURUS Linnceus.
Syst.
Nat. Ed.
X 1758 p. 246 lepturus.
Encheliopus Klem in Walbaum Pet.
Arted.
Gen. Pise III 1792 p. 583.
Type Trichiurus lepturus Linnaus.
Enchelyopus Bleeker Versl.
Med.
Kon.
Ak.
Wet.
Amsterdam 2 II 1868 p. 292 Qiaumela.
LEPTURACANTHUS subgen.
nov.
Type Trichiurus sarcda Cuvier.
Anterior anal spine enlarged and the others all more or less distinct.
Eye usiialh small.
AsTTTvi slender ahpd tail a.wOa thorn.
Trichiurus savala Cuvier.
Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. Vm 1831 p. 184 PI.
224.
Pondichery.
MM.
Lesclienault et Dussumier.
Head 7f  depth 18 D. about 107
 A. LXXIV
and a few more obsolete snout 2 in head from tip of upper jaw eye 7 maxillary 2 interorbital space 7.
Rakers 5  8.
First anal spine enlarged.
Iris silvery.
Body apparently uniform silvery.
Fins pale.
Length 14f inches.
Singapore Malacca.
Dr. M. Burrough.
Subgenus TRICHIURUS Linnseus.
First anal spine not enlarged.
Trichiurus lepturus Linnaeus.
Syst.
Nat. Ed.
X 1758 p. 246.
America.
China.
Many examples from San Domingo and St. Martin's West Indies Surinam and coast of Brazil.
A number are small and the largest is nearly 3 feet long.
They range about as follows  Head 6 to 7f  depth 12 to 16i D. 132 to 138 A. XCVIII to CVII snout 2f to 3 in head from tip of upper jaw eye 5 to 7 interorbital space 6i to 7.
Triohiurus haumela Forskl.
Clupea haumela Forskal Descript.
Animal. 1775 p. 72.
Mochha.
Red Sea.
Trichmrus haumela Fowler Journ.
Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
Phila. XII 2 1904 p. 506 PI.
7 lower figure.
Head 6 depth 14 D. about 134 A. about CVII P. i 10 width of head 5 in its length depth of head 2y mandible If pectoral 3 depth of body at anus 2 snout 2f in head from tip of upper jaw' eye 6 tip of snout to end of maxillary 2f  interorbital space 7.
Tip of mandible broad and rounded in front with a small fleshy papilla.
Front of upper jaw armed with 4 large barbed fangs.
Front of lower jaw with 2 smaller barbed fangs.
Teeth uniserial compressed and becoming larger posterior in sides of jaw.
Teeth of upper jaw concealed posteriorly by broad preorbital.
Small maxillary also concealed when mouth is closed and reaching opposite front rim of pupil.
Tongue elongate pointed and free Interorbital space flat.
Gillopening extending forward below nostril.
Rakers 5  8 short sharp pointed and with rather broad bases.
Isthmus trenchant.
Anal fin represented by broad short truncate spines.
Color in arrack when fresh silvery white upper surface leadengray darker on top of head and back.
Dorsal pale or whitish on lower half and upper or marginal half grayish becoming dusky on anterior portion of fin.
Pectoral grayish.
Iris pale yellowish.
Peritoneum gray.
Length 27yV inches.
Two examples.
Padang Sumatra.
Coll.
A. C. Harrison Jr. and Dr. H. I.
Hiller.
Stanford University and Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
A small example 16 inches in length from Beirut Syria probably belongs to this species.
It has  Head 7f  depth 17 D about 124 A. LXXX
and a few obsolete  snout 3 in head from tip of upper jaw eye oh interorbital space 7 maxillary 2h pectoral 3.
This species is closely related to Trichiurus lepturus Linnaeus differing apparently in the less numerous dorsal rays and the deeper body.
T. haumela was recorded a number of times from India although Day considered his T. malaharicus from Cochin as identical.
31 Based on Savala Russell Fishes of Coromandel I 1803 p. 30 PI.
41.
22 Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London 1865 p. 20.
December 6.
Mr. Arthur Erwix Brown VicePresident in the Chair.
Twenty persons present.
The death of T. M. Drown a member November 16 was announced.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication New Rare and Littleknown Scombroids No.
1.
by Henry W. Fowler October 31.
New ClausiUidae of the Japanese Empire by Henry A. Pilsbry November 22.
Description of a New Species of Earthworm Diplocardia longa from Georgia by J. Percy Moore November 30.
A Catalogue of the Erigonese of North America by Cyrus W. Crosby December 5.
A Contribution to the Knowledge of the Orthoptera of South and Central Florida by James A G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard December 12.
New Rare and Littleknown Scombroids No.
2 by Henry W. Fowler December 13.
Some Practical Color Tests.
 Dr. Henry Emerson Wetherill explained a series of charts illustrating practical color tests as applicable primarily to man although the charts can be used for work in other fields.
An antemortem bloodcolor scale represents the amount of Oxyhsemoglobin with 100 per cent as normal.
It is made circular to facilitate its use.
There are perforations between the adjacent colors so that they may be the better matched.
A similar series of colors represents the blood twentyfour hours after death.
The relative humidity of the air is illustrated by a moistiue scale which can also be used to measure the amount of cutaneous excretion.
The colors of the urine are represented by two charts and a scale for the colors of the feces enables one to report nimierically the conditions as found.
An improvement of the Dimethylamidoazobenzol test for HCL was shown and remarks made on its application.
These scales serve as standards of comparison.
A classification was contained in the book given to the Academy.
1904.
natural sciexces of philadelphia.
773 December 20.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M.D. in the Chair.
Thirtj'four persons present.
The following were accepted for publication  THE ORTHOPTERA OF THOMAS COUNTY GEORGIA AND LEON COUNTY FLORIDA.
BY JAMES A. G. REHN AND MORGAN HEBARD.
The material on which the following study is based comprised over three thousand specimens of ninetyfour species.
The majority of this extensive series is contained in the collection of the junior author but a thoroughly representative series is in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia part being collected by Rehn and part presented by Hebard.
The series studied contains material taken on dates extending from December 1902 to April 1904.
The junior author resided at Thomasville from December 1902 to May 1903 and from late November 1903 to early April 1904.
During the summer of 1903 a collector was employed to work in the vicinity of Thomas ville and a very good series of the summer and early autumn species obtained.
The senior author spent from March 14 to April 5 1904 with Mr. Hebard and they together examined considerable of the surrounding country.
Several trips were made over the State line into Leon county the adjoining portion of Florida one in 1903 and two in 1904.
The critical portion of the following paper is almost entirely the work of the senior author while the field notes which are followed by M. H. are the work of the junior author but the agree in all the statements made.
As a general description of the country is usually of great value in a faunistic paper we have summarized the principal features of the region under consideration and also made some notes on the occurrence time of abundance and local environment of a number of the more interesting species of Orthoptera.
Thomasville Georgia the county seat of Thomas county is situated in the southwestern part of the State some twelve miles distant from the Florida line and about fifty miles from Alabama.
The surrounding country is gently rolling and covered with fine pine forests and divided into large plantations many of which have the greater part of their area cleared and under cultivation the chief crops being corn and cotton.
Sweet potatoes sugar cane and peanuts are also extensively produced.
The pine forests are usually wholly composed of the longleaf variety but here and there a forest of nothing but the shortleaf pine is to be found.
In the pine woods there are hardly any other trees excepting occasional oaks sweet gums and dogwoods.
These woods are very open and there being hardly any undergrowth a wagon may be driven through them almost anywhere.
The ground is in nearly all places thickly carpeted with wiregrass and other small plants with here and there a dense clump of gallberry bushes while everywhere the long pine needles are thickly scattered.
Throughout these woods the yellow jasmine grows in great luxuriance and when in flower is most beautiful.
In each depression of the land a stream is to be found called in this country a branch.
These streams are almost invariably filled with a thick growth of magnolias bay black gum tulip beech and other trees while the undergrowth of blackberry grape and other vines is usually very dense and an occasional thicket of pipe cane adds to the difficulty of following the course of one of these streams.
To this must be added the fact that in many places the ground on both sides of the branch is boggy and there are muddy holes covered by sphagnum between the roots of the trees.
There are a few places where the pine forests have been cut down and the land left uncultivated  in these situations has sprung up a dense growth of scrub oak which has completely choked out almost all other vegetation.
In other unreclaimed fields the shortleaf pine thrives and less frecuently one finds a heavy growth of young longleaf pines.
The Ocklockonee river flows within five miles of the town and is a stream about thirty feet in width during the dry part of the year but diuing the heavy rains it spreads for a mile or more over the nearby country which is in most places low and swampy.
Along portions of the river bank are dense swamps of gum cypress and other trees.
Through these swamps run numerous ridges of clay and sand with here and there shallow lagoons which with the great height of the trees and the numbers of fallow and mouldering logs lend to these bottoms a very wild aspect.
These places are the only situations in this part of the country where deer wildcats and an occasional bear may be found.
The character of the country just across the line in Leon county Florida differs noticeably from that about Thomasville.
It is more rolling with small lakes in every depression.
This country is unhealthy for in the summer these lakes dry up exposing to the sun a great amount of decayed vegetable matter.
The largest lakes near Thomasville are lamonia and Miccosukee.
They are distant from the town about fifteen and eighteen miles respectively.
The former although some miles long occasionally goes dry in a very short space of time and fills up again with as great rapidity.
The water has been found to flow in and out through a subterranean passage and once when the lake went dry a peculiarly marine fish was taken from the opening through which the water had receded.
This opening was filled with a great number of fish although they had been left dead by the thousand on the bed of the lake when the water disappeared.
The soil of this region is rich but not deep the red clay which is everywhere often being within a few inches of the surface of the high ground where however the crops seem to grow as well as anywhere.
The Orthoptera of the country around Thomasville is best represented in the pine woods.
Here among the wiregrass and pine needles which carpet the ground many interesting species are to be found.
In early December before the frosts have thinned their numbers Amblytropidia occidentalis Aptenopedes sphenarioides and Radinotatum brevipenne are most abundant through these forests Schistocerca damnifica Melanoplus keeleri M. nigrescens and M. scudderi are then by no means common but more restricted to colonies.
Among the really scarce species are Melanoplus sijlvestris and Gymnoscirtetes pusillus.
By December OrphuleUa pratorum which swarms in the open spots of the woods in the fall becomes quite scarce as is the case with Arphia xanthoptera and to a considerable extent that of Dictyophorus guttatus.
By the end of December almost all Orthoptera disappears owing to the cold weather and during the following two months the conditions usually remain the same.
In March at the advent of warm weather Amblytropidia occidentalis and Aptenopedes sphenarioides are again very plentiful and Schistocerca americana appears common in certain localities while S. damnifica and Arphia sulphurea are generally noticed.
The Forficididce is represented by several species only one of which.
Labia burgessii is abundant.
Infrequently Labia minor and Anisolabis anmdipes are found and occasional small colonies of Labia guttata and Spongophora brunneipennis located.
These colonies are usually found in dead magnolias or other hardwood trees but occasional specimens may be taken from bark on pine logs.
The Blattidce is represented by Ceratinoptera lutea which is sometimes very common among the dead leaves under oaks sweet gums and hickories.
In the pine logs between December and March many immature Ischnoptera may be taken by peeling off the loose bark mature individuals begin to appear about the middle of April and by May most specimens are fully developed.
The most plentiful species of Mantidce is Stagmomantis Carolina and its favorite habitat is a blackberry bush or other low growth occasionally in the pine woods but more often in branches and fields.
The slender Thesprotia graminis is a purely pine woods species and is found among the wiregrass where it is so well protected by both form and coloration as to almost defy detection.
In the spring Conocephalus appears in numbers in the broom sedge and other grasses throughout the pine woods.
The Gryllidce in the fall before the frosts is represented by a few species of which Nemobius ambitiosus is most plentiful and it may be found in diminished numbers throughout the winter.
Under rubbish Gryllus are common and Orocharis gryllodes may be found hibernating under signs on oak trees.
During the spring in certain restricted localities Falcicula hehardi is quite plentiful among the wiregrass and later in the summer Hapithus brevipennis while OEcarithus appears frequenting 1he bushes and shrubs especially those growing on the sides of the branches.
The Orthoptera found in these branches differs greatly from that of the pine woods.
Here in the late fall hardly anything is to be found except Nemobius carolinus and exiguus which are plentiful the former in beds of sphagnum only and some Paroxya floridiana restricted to a few sunny spots.
In the spring however Tettigidea lateralis is very common in all grassy spots and in certain localities Tettigidea spicata is found.
In other locations Acrydium arenosum Paratettix texanus and Neotettix femoratus may be taken the best places being where these streams empty into a lake or flow through low sandy stretches of fields.
The species of Acrididoe found in the fields just before the heavy frosts are Chortophaga viridifasciata Melanoplus propinquus and Orphulella pratorum all in great numbers Psinidia fenestralis Melanoplus atlanis and Spharagemon ivyomingianum are moderately common earlier but soon disappear while Dichromorpha viridis which swarms in the summer is not in evidence.
Among the species found during the summer months are Hippiscus phoenicopterus H. riigosus Spharagemon bolli Dissosteira Carolina and Trimerotropis citrina.
Family FORPIOULID..
Labidura bidens Olivier.
This species is apparently not uncommon at Thomasville as specimens were taken May 2 21 26 and 29 August 12 and a series of eight the first week in October 1903.
These individuals are indistinguishable from Cuban specimens and exliibit considerable variation in size but'in color are quite constant.
50 These specimens were taken in hot weather only and were attracted to the arc Hghts.
M. H. Anisolabis annulipes H. Lucas.
Specimens of this species taken at Thomasville December 24 1902 under pine bark August 20 September 9 December 9 1903 in house and March 23 1904 are the first individuals recorded from the United States.
In one individual December 9 the maculations on the limbs are rather weak.
The few specimens of this species taken were all met with accidentally.
It appeared to be at all times very scarce.
M. H. Spongophora brunneipennis Serville.
A number of specimens ten of this species were taken at Thomasville under magnoHa bark December 10 11 and 13 1903.
They are equally divided between the sexes and are constant in size and coloration.
An unmature specimen was also taken under pine bark in Leon county Florida on April 7 1903.
All the specimens of this species were taken from under the bark of a dead magnolia tree.
They were found in colonies of three or four huddled closely together and upon the bark which concealed them being pried off they made vigorous attempts to escape.
The specimens of this species taken with hardly an exception were under bark five or more feet from the ground where the decayed wood was dry and pithy and not as far gone as that at the foot of the tree.
M. H. Labia minor Linnaeus.
A specimen of this species from Thomasville but without further data was examined.
Labia guttata Scudder.
Three female specimens of this species have been examined from Thomasville one taken January 1 1903 another January 24 1903 and the other in Georgia pine woods on March 1 1904.
A scarce species in this locality taken from under the bark of dead pine logs.
In 1904 but one colony consisting of four or five specimens was discovered although during the year many logs were thoroughly examined.
M. H. Labia burgessii Scudder.
This species is quite common at Thomasville under the bark of dead trees.
A series of over a hundred and fifty specimens representing the adult condition of both sexes and immature forms has been examined.
This series plainly demonstrates that there is considerable variation in the size of the adults of both sexes but coloration appears to be quite uniform' such difference as is apparent being due to the extension of the abdomen which causes the insect to appear more of a chestnut color than is the case when in normal position.
The specimens were all taken in the months of December and March.
This species is seldom to be met with but when found is almost invariably in very large numbers.
In 1903 a few specimens were taken in the woods about Thomasville and one colony of over forty specimens was discovered in Leon County in a dead pine log under the loose bark.
In 1904 but one colony was observed this was in the trunk of a large magnolia which though long dead was still standing.
The specimens were all taken from the trunk less than five feet above the ground where the wood was soft damp and pulpy and the bark loose.
By visiting this tree several times and picking off all the loose bark and soft wood over one hundred and fifty specimens were obtained the specimens usually found singly.
This was the same tree on which Spongophora hrunneipennis was found.
Quite a number of immature specimens of S. hrunneipennis were taken among individuals of this species.
M. H. Family BLATTID.
Ischnoptera inaequalis Saussure anJ Zehntner.
Immature specimens of what appears to be this species were taken at Thomasville on March 23 and April 9 1904.
The individuals taken on the latter date were from Linton's Pond a body of water several miles southeast of Thomasville.
All were on oak.
A single adult male was taken at Thomasville on May 6 1903 and this appears to be unquestionably incequalis.
Blatchley has recently recorded this species from Indiana and with the original localities  North Mexico and Texas  and Costa Rica we have some idea of the distribution of the species.
The immature Thomasville specimens are in such condition that the identification is attended by a little uncertainty but no other known North American species agrees with them as fully as inaequalis.
All the immature specimens taken were found under advertising signs on white oak trees only and were extremely rapid in their movements.
M. H. Isclinoptera jolmsoni Rehn.
This species is represented in the Thomasville collections examined by an adult male taken July 23 1903 and a series o' immature individuals taken December 1 1903 March 1 23 and 25 and April 9 1904.
The immature specimens were all taken under sign on trees or under bark.
Naturally some little uncertainty is attached to the identification of the specimens but they can safely be considered johnsoni.
Some individuals possess light narrow lateral margins to the pronotum mesonotum and metanotum.
All the immature specimens taken were found under signs on oak trees in company with immature individuals of other species of Ischnoptera.
When revealed the majority in their hurry fell from the tree and hid in the leaves at its foot but a few relying in their protective coloration would press themselves closely to the bark and remain motionless.
M. H. Ischnoptera uhleriana Saussure.
Adult Thomasville specimens of this species taken Iarch 23 April 6 May July 10 and 25 1903 have been examined.
They fully agree with specimens from Pennsylvania and New Jersey.
Data with some specimens informs us they were taken from under pine bark.
This is the most abundant roach found in this region under the bark of dead pine logs.
It was hardly ever met with except on pine.
M. H. Ischnoptera major Saussure and Zehntner.
A large series of immature individuals some nearly adult we refer to this species.
The larger specimens are undoubtedly major but the smaller ones may represent other species as well.
The localities represented are Thomasville Tyty Plantation and the Ocklockonee river and the dates range from February to October.
Almost all the immature specimens taken of this species were from under the bark of dead pine logs.
M. H. Ceratinoptera lutea Saussure and Zehntner.
Several immature specimens of this species were taken at Thomasville on December 31 1902.
This species is occasionally very abundant in dead oak leaves.
Many immature specimens were also seen under signs on trees especially on sweet gum in company with immature specimens of Ischnoptera.
M. H. Periplaneta aTuericana Linnaeus.
This omnipresent species is represented in the collections by a number o' Thomasville specimens taken in April June and December.
Periplaneta truncata Krauss.
This species which was previously known from the United States by one record from Victoria Texas is represented by two females ' Caudell Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mas. XXVI p. 779. from Thomasville taken in October 1903 and on January 9 1904.
These individuals as is the case with the Texan specimens are referable to the var.
a of Saussure and Zehntner.
The specimen of this species which was taken on January 9 1904 I found dead on the sidewalk of Jackson street under a large live oak.
M. H. Family MANTID.
Stagmomantis Carolina Johansson.
This species is represented in the collection by immature individuals taken in July and August and adults taken in August September and October.
Gonatista grisea Fabricius.
A single specimen of this species from Thomasville was examined.
It was taken in early winter resting on the dead leaves of a small water oak.
Thesprotia graminis Scudder.
This species is represented in the Thomasville material by two somewhat immature individuals taken August 19 and September 30 1903.
This species is found in the wiregrass which carpets the pine forest and which it so closely resembles that the closest scrutiny is required to reveal its presence.
M. H. Family PHASMID.
Anisomorpha buprestoides Stoll.
This species is represented by specimens taken at Thomasville March 20 1903 and at Tyty Plantation Thomas county December 12 1903.
The latter individuals a pair were taken on pine in coitu.
A number of halfgrown specimens of this species were taken by beating the gallberry bushes growing near a branch which crosses the river road nearly two miles from town.
M. H. Family ACRIDID.
Acrydium arenosum Burmeister.
This species is found common in the vicinity of water on sandy beaches and wet soil but probably is local in its distribution even in such environment as it was taken at but three points.
In a piece of bayou country amid cypress and black gum on the Ocklockonee river west of Thomasville this species was taken on February 29 March 29 and April 1 and 9 1904.
In the vicinity of a small lake in northern Leon county specimens were taken on March 21 1903 and March 22 1904.
The series examined consists of sixty specimens and exhibits a great amount of variation in the rugosity of the pronotum the character of the median carina of the pronotum and a slight amount of color variation the latter chiefly in the intensity of the pair of spots posterior to the humeral angles.
Neotettix bolteri Hancock.
A single specimen of what appears to be this species was taken in Leon county March 22 1904 in swampy ground at the edge of a small lake.
Neotettix femoratus Scudder.
A variable and interesting series of specimens from Thomas ville taken in late June early July September and October 1903 and April 9 and 10 1904 are referable to this species.
While a great amount of variation is exhibited by the specimens examined they appear after comparison with the tjpe to represent Scudder's species.
Three individuals belong to a type with the posterior portion of the pronotum elongate.
This species during the summer was found moderately plentiful.
M. H. Paratettix texanus Hancock.
Three Thomasville specimens two males one female are contained in the series examined.
They were taken on marshy meadow or sandy beach at Linton's Pond on March 21 April 10 1904.
This species has been recorded from Texas Louisiana Mississippi Georgia and South Carolina.
Its status appears to be more likely that of a mere subspecies of P. cucullatus.
Tettigidea spicata Morse.
This species is represented by a series of seventeen specimens taken at two localities in Thomas county.
At one point about two miles west of Thomasville in wet pine woods it was taken on December 14 1903 April 9 1904 while on February 29 March 29 and April 1 it was taken in bayou country along the Ocklockonee river.
A form with the pronotum elongate is represented by four specimens two of each sex.
Tettigidea lateralis Say.
This species was very abundant in moist localities in Thomas and Leon counties.
In bottom land as well as on sandy stretches and moist meadow this interesting little locust was noted.
Specimens examined were taken in the months of February March April July August and September.
The series examined over one hundred and thirty in number exhibits a considerable amount of variation in size and in the angulation of the anterior margin of the pronotum.
Eadinotatum brevipenne Thomas.
This interesting and peculiar species is mainly a common inhabitant of pine woods in Thomas and Leon counties.
It lives among the dried needles and apparently depends for safety more on protective resemblance and coloration than on anything else as the saltatorial powers are limited and the flight organs useless.
Three color types are represented in the series of one hundred and eleven specimens examined one type being uniform brownish of varying shades another brownish with the dorsal surface of the head pronotum and tegmina grass green and the third brownish with the lateral aspect greenish.
From the material examined it would appear that around Thomasville the species is represented by mature individuals in late spring and early summer April to July September individuals being extremely small while a large number of November December and March specimens show a gradu increase in size.
The peculiar character of the subgenital plate of the male is pronounced in specimens taken in November.
Color notes from life Green phase nymph Thomasville Georgia November 30 1903  color of the dorsal surface antennae eyes mandibles labrum median and anterior limbs posterior tibiae and tips of the posterior femora wood brown lateral aspects face mesoand metasternum and posterior femora except the distal portions apple green.
Brown phase nymph Thomasville Georgia November 30 1903 general color wood brown obsciuely and rather irregularly lined and spotted with broccoli brown a rather distinct postocular and pronotal streak being developed posterior femora with the apical portions blackish.
The color of adult males is grass green on the dorsal surface of the pronotum and tegmina the abdomen lateral aspect and dorsal surface of the femora as in the immature  inferior margin of the lateral lobes of the pronotum pale ochraceous.
The adult female is uniform wood brown except the eyes which are umber obscurely spotted with darker brown.
One adult female however has a green and brown coloration but the pattern is exactly the reverse of that found in the males the green being lateral instead of dorsal.
Several specimens examined are strongly overcast with blackish spots.
I noticed many immature specimens of this species pale straw brown in color and one or two specimens taken were profusely marked with small black dots.
On April 7 1904 I noticed several mature males of this species in the sprouting broom sedge at the edge of the golf course near thick woods.
Returning to this place two days later I took a number of mature males and several females almost adult.
These males were nearly all of the green form while the females were entirely brown.
Roturning to this place on the next day I at last succeeded in taking a mature female.
M. H. Syrbula admirabilis Uhler.
Seven specimens of this species taken at Thomasville in 1903 have been examined.
Four of the seven are immature and were taken on June 30 July 6 7 and 16.
The four adults were taken June 30 cJ July 69 September 30  9  and December 14  9 .
An interesting feature noticed in this series and substantiated by other material from the Middle Atlantic States is the transition from a depressed ensiform antenna in the immature form to a slender subfiliform type in the adult.
From a phylogenetic standpoint this fact would indicate a type with ensiform antennsc like Mermiria as the ancestor of the genus Syrhula.
I captured one female specimen of this species in damp low pine woods in December.
M. H. Amblytropidia occidentalis Saussure.
This modestly colored but lively species is almost without exception found in pine and black gum woods but in pine woods the species is more abundant than elsewhere being found in association with Radinotatum and Aptenopedes.
The series examined contains ninetyeight specimens from Thomas and Leon counties and exhibits a great amount of variation in color and some in structure.
In some female specimens the pronotum is more expanded than in others and the head also appears slightly stouter.
The amount of color variation is remarkable though confined to browns and grays.
From an extreme blackishbrown form all intergrades are present to types of a uniform sienna and ashy gray.
Some individuals are obscurely lined on each side of the median carina of the pronotum.
The following color notes are from life Female Thomasville November 30 1903 general color mars brown and mummy brown spotted and streaked eyes broccoli brown posterior femora laterally mars brown darkest dorsally above wood brown with a few mars brown spots beneath pinkishvinaceous internally milky white blotched with blackish and dull brown posterior tibise basally wood brown becoming lluishblack apically abdomen with the dorsal surface pale ochraceousrufous laterally wood brown washed blackish basally each segment with the apical margin milky white inferior surface pinkishvinaceous.
Female Thomasville November 30 1903 similar to the specimen described above except that the dorsal surface is overcast with a pale whitish suffusion and the lateral lobes of the pronotum the pleura and the genjE and postocular regions of the head are suffused with dull orangerufous.
The only immature specimen in the scries examined was taken on November 30.
The adults were taken on dates extending from the latter part of October to the early part of April.
This species of the pine forest although it is singularly protected by its coloration when in its favorite haunt among the pine needles is nevertheless a most wary and active species.
Both males and females fly with the greatest rapidity and when alarmed will keep on the wing for a considerable distance.
When approached quietly they will spring up with great speed but only fly a short distance.
Diving into a tuft of wiregrass and pine needles they seem to literally glide down to the most obscure place at the roots of the grass where although perfectly hid they remain alert and upon the approach of anything make another rapid flight to some still safer place.
I have never been able to ascertain how these insects are able to start out of the center of a thick tuft of grass at full speed and dive into the very center of another in the space of time required by them.
This is the only species I know of that can slip out of one's hand when after approaching within a few inches of the specimen one pounces upon it.
It can not only do this however but can escape with such speed that track of it is very easily lost.
M. H. Orphulella pratorum Scudder.
This species is judging from the amount of material examined exceedingly abundant at Thomasallc from late June to late October but particularly in September while individuals taken in November December May and early June show its presence then but probably not in such numbers as in summer and early fall.
The series examined numbers four hundred and twentyfour specimens and represents all types and shades of coloration as well as illustrating the great diversity in size exhibited by specimens of the female sex.
Dichromorpha viridis Scudder.
This species is represented by a series of one hundred and fortythree specimens from Thomasville taken in the months from June to December inclusive.
As usual in the species great variation in size is exhibited by the series and both color forms are represented the green being greatly in the majority.
Arphia xanthoptera Burmeister.
This species is represented in the material studied by four specimens one male and three females taken at Thomasville March 16 September 24 November 30 and December 10.
Between December and March a stray specimen of this species may occasionally be met with in the oak and hickory woods.
M. H. Arphia granulata Saussure.
A male and female of this species from Thomasville taken May 27 1903 have been examined.
Arphia sulphurea Fabricius.
Specimens of this species were taken in Leon county and at Thomasville in March and April in pine woods.
An immature specimen taken in January has also been examined.
This species appeared to be moderately common in the spring of 1903 in pine woods with many scrub oaks about.
I found the immature specimens of this species plentiful throughout the winter months in dead leaves under oak hickory and sweet gum trees.
M. H. Cliortophaga viridifasciata DeGeer.
This common species is represented by a series of ninetytwo specimens the brown phase outnumbering the green form.
The series covers adult specimens taken in every month of the year.
I have found this species late into December in colonies along the edge of woods.
M. H. Hippiscus phcBiiicopterus Burmeister.
The species is represented by specimens taken in May 27th and June 2d and 8th 1903 at Thomasville.
Hippiscus rugosus Scudder.
A single specimen taken at Thomasville on August 13 1903 I have referred to this species.
It has however cinnabar wings but structurally is inseparable from Pennsylvania specimens of rugosus.
Dissosteira Carolina Linnseus.
This species is represented by specimens from Thomasville taken May 25 and 26 June 8 and 12 and July 27 and from Metcalfe taken September 17.
One specimen taken July 27 is immature.
Spharagemon boUi Scudder.
A single male specimen of this species is included in the material examined.
It was taken at Thomasville July 14 1903.
Spharagemon coUare wyomingianum Thomas.
A series of nine Thomasville specimens are assigned here with some uncertainty.
They agree with New Jersey specimens of wyomingiarium except for the sharper fastigium which also forms a more acute angle with the face.
Considerable color and minor structural variations are exhibited by this series.
The specimens were taken in June July August and November.
Psinidia fenestralis Serville.
This sazidloving species is represented by a series of eighteen specimens taken on dates extending from June to November.
I took one specimen of this species on November 30 a mature female so battered and worn it could scarcely fly.
M. H. Trimerotropis citrina Scudder.
This species which is here recorded from the Southeastern States for the first time is represented by a series of sixteen specimens taken at Thomas ville and Metcalfe.
May June and September are the months represented by the material studied.
Diotyophorus guttatus StoU.
This large and striking species is fairly numerous in southern Georgia and attains full size by August.
Several images taken in August September and October have been examined one male being of small size.
Another comparatively small male from Brunswick Glynn county Georgia is in the collection of the Academy.
I have found very young specimens of this species as early as the first week in April.
They were then in colonies of a dozen or more in the pine woods.
M. H. Stenaoris' cMorizans Walker.
This cattail loving species is represented by several Thomasvillc specimens and eight individuals from Leon county Florida.
The former series was taken on March 7 1903 and March 25 1904 the exact locality being a large boggy meadow cut by numerous streams formerly covered by a dammed body of water locally known as Mitchell's Pond.
Several specimens were also noticed but not taken at a large pond several miles north of Thomasville.
The Leon county specimens were all taken on the margins of a large pond in the extreme northern part of the county within half a mile of the Georgia line on March 21 1903 and March 22 1904.
But four of the series examined have the white lateral line distinct the others being almost unicolorous two however having the upper surface suffused with rosaceous.
I found this interesting species the most numerous among the cattails growing in the deep water at the edge of the pond.
When alarmed ' It is evident that toll's Gryllus gdtatus Nahmrl.
Afbeeld.
Beschr.
Zabelspringhjnen Treks pringhanen Krekels en Kakkerlakken p. 23 and Register p. 12 PI.
X.b fig.
34 is the same as Thunberg's Dictyophorus relicidatus and is two years earlier.
 This generic name is revived in place of Arnilia Stal which it antedates by three years.
It was proposed Catal.
Derm.
Salt.
Brit.
Mus. IV p. 651 1870 for three species lanceolata concolor and chlorizans the latter of which can be selected as the type.
it would at once fly swiftly and silently away to the stem of a cattail apparently in a safe place and would then when approached dodge around to the opposite side and remain motionless pressing itself to the stem which I noticed would almost invariably be the same color as itself.
It could then be taken by a stealthy approach and a quick grasp of the hand for it seemed to rely on its resemblance to its support and would not take wing unless alarmed by a quick movement or a too close approach.
When badly alarmed I noticed several specimens fly up into the trees and hide on the small twigs as they had before done on the cattails.
Not one of the species was to be found on the brownish rushes where Leptysma was common which latter species was precisely the color of its surroundings.
The flight of this species is much stronger and more rapid than that of L. marginicolUs  and owing to this fact and the locality in which it is found  it is quite difficult to take a specimen when thoroughly alarmed.
Those specimens seen on the meadow where Mitchell's Pond had once been were afforded poor cover as the grass was short and I noticed that they would almost always take flight when I was still a number of feet distant no matter how cautiously I approached.
M. H. Leptysma marginicolhs Serville.
This species which is somewhat similar in habit to the preceding is represented by specimens taken at Thomasville during March and in Leon county on March 22 1904.
This species was most numerous among the dried rushes on the edge of the pond in Leon county mentioned as the habitat of the preceding species.
The specimens were easily alarmed by a quick movement but could be easily approached and grasped if this was done in a slow and careful manner.
They were as well protected by their color on these brown rushes as the S. chlorizans were with their bright green coloration on the cattails whose stems were the same color the latter species however showed much less confidence in its concealment and was much more difficult to approach.
M. H. Schistocerca americana Drury.
This elusive and powerful species is represented by eight specimens taken at Thomasville in January March May October and December.
Leon county is represented by specimens taken in March.
Much of the time this species is common in the open pine woods.
Its flight is powerful and it usually takes refuge on the pine trunks over eight feet from the ground.
Its color blends remarkably with the bark and it remaining motionless with hind femora drawn closely to the body ready to spring does not take flight until closely approached.
Like the two preceding species even the heaviest females fly well and I have never seen one jump except when in such close quarters that flight was impossible.
M. H. Schistoceroa damnifica Saussure.
An interesting series of fifty specimens of this species is included in the material studied.
The females are all larger than Northern specimens and have the median stripe of the pronotum more obscure.
The males however are very similar to New Jersey representatives except that the tegmina appear to be slightly longer.
The material comprises adults taken in every month in the year except August.
The males of this species are active and are found common in the dead leaves under scrub oaks hickories sweet gums and other trees in the pine woods.
They fly well and are so much the color of their surroundings that they are very hard to follow.
The females are on the other hand invariably large and unwieldy and seem to find great difficulty in even jumping and they very seldom fly.
M. H. Gymnoscistetes pusillus Scudder.
This very peculiar species was found by Mr. Hebard to be fairly common in one locality near Thomas ville and a series of twentyone individuals sixteen males and five females are included in the series studied.
They are quite constant in size but in a number of other characters considerable variation is exhibited.
The anterior and posterior margins of the pronotum are truncate in some emarginate in others  the number of spines on the external margins of the posterior tibiae varies from eight to ten the median carina of the pronotum is quite distinct in some absent in others while the inferior portion of the frontal costa varies greatly in the strength of the constriction.
Color is rather constant such variation as is exhibited being in intensity and not pattern.
The females are uniformly lighter in color than the males.
The following color notes were made from a fresh male specimen Dark lateral bars seal brown light lateral bars pale glaucous green becoming emeraldgreen on the metaand mesopleura dorsal surface a semimetallic drab becoming quite pale toward the dark lateral bars eyes of the same color as the dark lateral bars obscurely spotted with drab antennae of the same color as the dorsal surface strongly suffused with blackish apically limbs very pale yeflo wishgreen minutely blotched with umber.
I took one specimen of this species in the wiregrass of the pine forest near town on November 30 1904 but although I searched the locality 790 proceedings of the academy of Dct' carefully for several dajs no more were taken.
A short time later I discovered a colony of this species in a similar situation on the river road about two miles from town.
They were very difficult to capture as it took the most intent searching before a specimen could be found and even then it was by no means an easy matter to make the capture for these small grasshoppers are masters of the art of jumping.
They can jump so quickly that owing to their color the eye cannot follow them and the strangest thing is that they can jump in any direction with such rapidity that it is wholly impossible to see in which direction they have gone.
They jump from one tuft of wiregrass to the top of another tuft and there cling tightly to the highest straw ready to make another leap.
Although they are so small I have seen them frequently spring several feet.
The females although much heavier than the males are almost equally agile.
This species has the habit of edging around its support when approached and remaining motionless with hind femora drawn close to the body.
It can be seen however to be watching that which has alarmed it most closely and on the first quick movement or on too near approach it jumps at once.
M. H. Melanoplus scudderi Uhler.
It was with considerable surprise that this species was recognized in the collections as the distribution of it is thus extended a considerable distance south ward.
Six male and sixteen female specimens from Thomasille have been examined taken November 30 1903 December 1 3 5 6 and 10 1903 and December 14 1902.
There is considerable variation in the coloration some being unicolorous others sprinkled with small blackish dots and maculations.
Color of live male Thomasville November 30 1903 general colors burnt umber and cinnamon mingled in a pepperandsalt combination the paler tint predominating toward the lower surface  lateral bar on the upper part of the prozona seal brown  posterior femora wdth the external bars not very distinctly marked the internal bars milky pink and dull seal brown the whole overcast with the general pepperandsalt suffusion posterior tibiae scarlet vermilion under surface of the body and posterior femora gamboge yellow suffused anteriorly and posteriorly with gra3brown clear on the basal segments of the abdomen.
Female color much as in the male but the under surface duller and the pronotum dorsally suffused with fawn color and the lateral bar on the prozona rather indistinct antennae reddishbrown grading from poppy red at the base to maroon apically.
This species is moderately plentiful during the fall months in the pine woods.
Its color blends almost exactly with the pine needles and it is for this reason that although it is a slow species at taking alarm and poor at jumping it is sometimes hard to capture.
M. H. Melanoplus sylvestris Morse.
This recently described species is apparently represented by three female specimens taken at Thomasville and Metcalfe in September November and December 1903.
The original specimens were all from western North Carolina.
Wlien compared with specimens of M. islandicus females of sylvestris can be separated by the precurrent median carina of the pronotum the broader metazona the more pronounced sulcation of the frontal costa and the more quadrate interval between the mesosternal lobes.
Found in the same places as the preceding species but more agile and easily alarmed.
Its coloration affords it even greater protection than that of M. scudderi.
M. H. Melanoplus nigrescens Scudder.
A series of fifteen males and seventeen females represents this large and rather striking species.
All the specimens are from Thomasville and were taken in November and December.
Considerable variation is exhibited in the shape of the cerci of the males.
Color of live specimens Female Thomasville November 30 1903 general color mummy brown the pepperandsalt effect caused by a minute speckling of pale wood brown postocular streak clear mummy brown eyes mars brown antennae with the base wood brown and the apical portion vandyke brown tegmina with the anal field clear wood brown discoidal and costal regions mummy brown stripe on the metapleura and the paler bars on the hind femora ecru drab dark bars on the femora seal brown posterior tibiae blackish basally dull maroon apically.
Male Thomasville November 30 1903 general color clovebrown becoming dull umber on the anal field of the tegmina  lateral lobes of the pronotum and lower part of head deep bluegray blending into the general tint of the upper surface eyes mottled clove brown and wood brown stripe on metapleura and pale bars and spots on posterior femora almost pure white suffused slightly with grayish toward the dorsal sm'face dark bars on the posterior femora and base color of mesoand metapleura solid black anterior and median limbs similar to the lower part of the head in color posterior tibiae apically poppy red dull on the superior surface basal portion blackish with a dull reddishpregenicular annulus surface of the mesoand metasternum dull glaucous green of the under surface of the abdomen gamboge yellow.
During November and December I have found this splendid species in colonies among the pine woods.
It preferred the vicinity of the scrub oaks and it was among these that I found a group of over a dozen specimens of this species within the space of a few square yards.
The males seemed peculiarly unwary and occasionally one would be almost trodden before it would jump.
Earlier in the season during the warm fall weather they probably exhibited much greater activity for I noticed them to feel cold severely and the slightest cooler weather would greatly thin their numbers.
All the specimens I took were probably at their prime several weeks earlier and from this I conclude that the best time to take this species is toward the latter part of October and during early November.
The females were more unwieldy than the males but were very powerful.
Both sexes owing to the shortness of their wings were wholly unable to fly.
M. H. Melanoplus keeleri Thomas.
This species is represented by a series of twenty males and twentynine females taken at Thomasville in September October November and December.
The intensity of the coloration is quite variable.
This species is found in the same locality and at the same time as the preceding species but in greater numbers.
The males are much smaller than the females and are therefore less powerful but they are able to fly well and are occasionally quite shy.
The females are usually unable to fly at the time I was collecting as it was late in the season and all were more or less worn.
M. H. Melanoplus clypeatus Scudder.
Four female specimens of this species from Thomasville taken August 3 and December 17 1903 have been examined.
They have longer tegmina 2222.5 mm.
than the female measured by Scudder.
Melanoplus propinquus Scudder.
This is the most abundant species of the genus at Thomasville and in consequence it is represented by a very large series  three hundred and fortyeight in number.
The months represented by the material are January INIay June July August Septemler.
October and December.
This species has almost the exact habits of its close northern ally M. femurrubrum.
It is found in great numbers in all open country during the summer and fall and is quite plentiful even in the spring.
M. H. Melanoplus atlanis Riley.
This destructive species is represented by five male individuals from Thomasville taken in April July October and December.
This species is common in the corn fields durins warm weather.
M. H. Paroxya atlantioa Scudder.
A series of thirteen specimens were taken at Thomasville and Tyty Plantation in Jiuie August October and December.
The males agree very well ith two specimens of that sex one from Ormond Florida the other from Florida without further data.
Found along the branches.
M. H. Paroxya floridiana Thomas.
This marshloving species is abundant at Thomasville in late summer and fall and is represented by a Series of one hundred and sLxtyfive individuals taken in July August September and December.
Considerable variation in color is exhibited by this assemblage as is usual in the species but the extremes are connected by numbers of intermediates.
Found in great abundance along all streams and in all damp spots during the warm weather.
I took quite a series of tattered specimens of this species in a sheltered spot along the edge of a branch in December 1903.
M. H. Aptenopedes sphenarioides Scudder.
This beautiful and common species is found usually in the pine woods among the dead needles and wiregrass.
The series comprises two hundred and fiftysix specimens about ecpially divided between the sexes.
The months represented by the material are January February March April June August September October November and December.
The species was observed in Leon county in the latter part of March.
Some individuals possess but one tegmen and in a few individuals both tegmina are missing.
This latter condition appears to be abnormal as the specimens are otherwise inseparable and are cpiite distinct from a specimen of aptera from Miami Florida.
After comparing the types of A. clara Rehn with individuals of sphenarioides the former is seen to be immediately distinguishable by the peculiar cerci.
Two color phases are present one purplishbrown the other a rich paris green.
The following notes have been made from living adult specimens.
Green phase female Thomasville November 30 1903 general color paris green on the under surface becoming pale and on the sides of the abdomen suffused with whitish eyes mummy brown antennae dull crimson infuscate apically lateral line on the pronotum and tegmina composed of two colors above peach blossom  Enf.
News XIII p. 14.
51 pink below blackish lower margin of the pronotum very narrowly lined with white anterior and median femora of the body color tibiae dull crimson posterior femora with the lateral face of the body color darkest above inferior carina white superior carina bicolor similar to the tegmina genicular arches black posterior tibia
glaucous blue spines whitish with the tips black.
Green phase male Thomas ville November 30 1903 general color of the upper surface paris green becoming apple green on the sides and under surface eyes mummy brown finely sprinkled with wood brown lateral lines practically the same colors as in the female except that the rosy tint is paler on the pronotum than on the tegmina abdomen with the median portion dull salmon flanked with pure black the latter carrying a small white spot at the apical margin of each segment in other respects similar to the female.
Brown phase female Thomasville November 30 1903 general color of the dorsal surface broccoli brown overcast with an irregular hoary suffusion of ecru drab this being limited to the median portions of the segments on the abdomen lateral lines much as in the green phase but more subdued and the usual pinkish stripe on the tegmina rather brownish face eyes gcnse lateral lobes of the pronotum pleura and external faces of the posterior femora as well as the anterior and median limbs vandyke brown obscurely scrumbled with broccoli brown  lower margin of the pronotum and lower carina of the external face of the posterior femora whitish posterior tibiae maroon.
Brown phase male Thomasville November 30 1903 general color much as in the female but the hoary suffusion weaker lateral line well marked and more ecru than pinkish pronotum with the blackish tint weak the inferior external carinse of the posterior femora with a broken white line superior face of posterior femora scrumbled wood brown antennae whitish.
Nymph  November 30 1903  general color wood brown obscurely lined and spotted with mummy brown upper portion of lateral lobes of the pronotum and postocular region blackish.
I have always found this species prevalent except during the cold weather of late December January and the greater part of February.
This species is to be found almost everjvhere in the pine woods but is more abundant where the wiregrassgrows heaviest near the branches.
The males are very active springing wdth alacrity and often alighting on weed stalks and vines a foot or more above the ground where they remain motionless but watchful ready to spring to another place if approached.
The females being much heavier are less spry but nevertheless sometimes difficult to capture.
M. H. Family TETTIGONID.
Arethaea phalangium Scudder.
A single male individual of this species was taken at Thomasville June 29 1903.
Scudderia texensis Saussure and Pictet.
This is the commonest species of the genus in the vicinity of Thomasville and it is represented by a series of twentyeight specimens representing both sexes.
They were taken in May June July September and October.
Scudderia furcata Brunner.
One female and three male specimens represent this species.
They were taken at Thomasville in the second week of October and December 14 1903.
The specimen taken in December was beaten from gallberry bushes in the pine woods and was in a battered condition.
M. H. Scudderia cuneata Morse.
This recently described species is represented by two male individuals taken at Thomasville on August 17 and September 10 1903.
This record extends the range of the species east of the type locality  Alabama.
Amblycorypha oblongifolia DeGeer.
This species is represented by four Thomasville specimens two males two females taken July 29 August 4 S and 26 1903.
The males have the tympanum of the tegmina narrower than in Maryland Delaware and Pennsylvania specimens of the species but nevertheless do not appear separable.
Amblycorypha uhleri Stil.
One male and one female representative of this species have been examined both taken at Thomasville one on July 16 1903 the other in the second week of October 1903.
Belocephalus subapterus Scudder.
One female specimen of this species was taken at Thomasville August 24 1903.
This is the first record outside of the State of Florida.
Conocephalus atlanticus Brunner.
A series of three males of this species from Thomasville have been examined.
They were taken September 12 15 and 17 1903 and on comparison with paratypes prove inseparable.
Conocephalus retusus Scudder.
A single female taken at Thomasville September 17 1903 is referred to this species.
The specimen has the tegmina and ovipositor slightly longer than Scudder's original measurements but the specimen appears to belong here.
Conocephalus mexicanus Saussure.
Two female specimens of this species were taken at ThomasA'ille December 3 1903 in undergrowth in pine woods and on Iarch 10 1904.
Both specimens taken were in good condition the first was taken among the dead brown leaves of a hickor in the pine woods where it was very conspicuous on account of its bright green color.
M. H. Conocephalus fuscostriatus Redtenbacher.
Three male Thomasville specimens of this species have been examined.
One is without date the others were taken March 16 and April 4 1904 and all are typical representatives of the species.
This species appeared early in March and was soon plentiful in the woods especially in the broom sedge in damp locations.
The specimens when pursued always took to wing and made off with a strong but zigzag flight never alighting until quite a distance had been traversed.
I followed one specimen for several hundred yards across a field and finally lost sight of it as it had flown up until some forty feet above the ground and could not be followed by the eye in the twilight.
The males begin their serenade just as dusk begins to fall and keep up a continuous zeeeee late into the night.
Their song is however not nearly so earsplitting as that of C. mexicanus.
M. H. Orchelimum glaberrimum Burmeister.
This large species is represented by a series of thirtyone individuals representing both sexes.
They are all from Thomasville taken in August and September 1903.
A considerable amount of variation is exhibited in the intensity of the brown markings on the pronotum.
Orchelimum nitidum Redtenbacher.
A series of fiftyseven specimens of both sexes represents this species.
They are all from Thomasville taken in August and September 1903.
The remark made under 0. glaberrimum regarding markings on the pronotum applies with equal force to this species.
Orchelimum nigripes Scudder.
A single female of this species was taken at Thomasville on August 4 1903.
This is the first record for the Gulf States.
Orchelimum cuticulare Serville 
A single male intli'idual taken at Thomasville on August 28 1903 is very doubtfully referred to this species.
Xiphidion fasciatum DeGeer.
This widely distributed species is represented by a series of ninetyfive specimens all from Thomasville.
The months represented are June August September October and December one specimen 1903.
I took but one specimen of this species that in December 1903.
It was procured among tall grass in a swampy hollow.
M. H. Xiphidion brevipenne Scudder.
Three females and four males of this species from Thomasville have been examined.
They were taken in August September October and December 1903.
The single specimen of this species which I took in December 1903 was secured in the damp undergrowth of the pine woods near a branch.
M. H. Xiphidion saltans Scudder.
Two females and five males of this species are included in the material studied.
They were taken at Thomasville in September October and November 1903 the one taken in the latter month being from meadow land.
Odontoxiphidium apterum Morse.
This recently described genus and species is represented by a series of twenty males and twentytwo females all from Thomasville taken in September October November and December 1903.
Those individuals bearing information in addition to the date and locality are labelled as having been taken in imdergrowth in pine woods.
The series agrees very well with the description exhibiting the color variation noted in the original series.
The specimens which I took of this species were all captured in the wiregrass of the pine woods.
Although active they were easily captured.
M. H. A male specimen of this species from Brunswick Glynn county Georgia taken September ISSl is in the collection of the Academy.
Atlanticus gibbosus Scudder.
As far as can be determined from the very inadequate description and the immature condition of the majority of the twelve specimens examined I should refer the representatives of this genus to gibbosus.
But one individual a female is fully grown the others being in such condition as make them almost useless for study.
The dates represented are March 16 17 22 23 24 and 29 April 9 July 23 adult and December 10 all from Thomasville.
In December March and April I have found immature individuals of this species plentiful in the pine woods where they live among the wiregrass.
I found many in the locality which yielded the large series ofGymnoscirtetes pusillus.
M. H. Ceuthophilus virgatipes n. sp.
Types cJ and 
 Thomasville Thomas county Georgia.
August 13 1903.
Collection of Morgan Hebard.
Closely allied to C. secretus Scudder but differing in the longer median internal calcaria and the much shorter ovipositor.
Relationship also exists with C. varicator Scudder but that species has the first tarsal joint as long as the others united as well as having a long ovipositor.
Size medium body compressed.
Head with the occiput declivent vertex somewhat flattened interspace between the eyes equal to the long diameter of one of them ejes inverted subpyriform antennae rather short and rather heavy but slightly longer than the body terminal palpal joint distinctly longer than the third.
Pronotum strongly compressed  anterior margin wnth a slight median emargination posterior margin truncate  lateral lobes slightly longer than high inferior margin moderately arcuate the anterior angle by no means as apparent as the posterior surface of the pronotum as well as the mesonotum and metanotum obscurely tuberculate more pronounced in the female than in the male.
Abdomen strongly compressed the exposed portion of each segment roughened and picked.
Cerci short thick basally tapering.
Ovipositor short thick basally apical half subequal margins almost straight superior angle produced into a distinct spiniform process internal valves with five apical spines.
Anterior femora a third as long again as the pronotum armed on the anterior inferior margin with 30 spines unarmed on the posterior margin.
Median femora about equal to the anterior in length armed on the anterior margin with three spines which are larger in the female than in the male and increase in size distally posterior margin armed with two or three spines.
Posterior femora thick and short strongly bullate  the apical third slender inferior margins with irregularly disposed serrations intervening sulcus comparatively broad posterior femora distinctly more than a tenth longer than the femora not bowled spurs large median calcaria extremely long the internal equalling the metatarsus second and fourth tarsal joints subequal third decidedly less than half the length of second metatarsus shorter than the other joints united.
General color cinnamon overlaid with bistre the superior surface of the posterior femora with distinct diagonal bars of the two tints under surface wdth little of the overlying tint.
Measurements.
Length of body 14.2 mm.
19.5 mm.
Length of pronotum 4.2  6  Length of posterior femora 13.5  17.2  Length of posterior tibisp 15  19  Length of ovipositor 7.2  A series of nine specimens of this species inckiding the types has been studied.
As all the specimens of this species were collected in my absence from home I can only state that they were taken in a heavy swamp.
M. H. Family GRYLLID Gryllotalpa borealis Burmeister.
Several specimens of this species from Thomasville have been examined taken March 25 August 31 and September 11 1903.
An individual was taken just over the line in Leon county Florida on March 17 1903 in a very peculiar situation  a distance up a cherry tree.
Tridactylus terminalis Scudder.
Two individuals of this species were taken at Linton's Pond near Thomasville one on March 18 and the other April 10 1904.
The exact locality was a sloping sandy beach constantly dampened by the flow of several springs situated in an overhanging bank and close to a stream.
Diligent search revealed two other specimens of this species but owing to the absence of a net at the time they readily escaped.
M. H. EUipes minuta Scudder.
This species was found in several places in the vicinity of Thomasville and in Leon county.
The locations are moist meadow land or sandy beaches and here this active little species was very numerous.
At Linton's Pond it was taken on April 10 and in northern Leon county on Iarch 22.
Nine specimens have been examined.
Cycloptilum squamosum Scudder 
A single male specimen is questionably referred to this species.
It was taken at Thomasville August 13 1903.
The condition of the specimen is such that accurate identification is impossible but the description of squamosum contains nothing radically different from the specimen examined.
Nemobius maculatus Blatchley.
This species is represented by a scries of fifteen individuals of both sexes taken at Thomasville.
The months represented are June July August September October November and December.
As is usual with the species of this genus a great amoiuit of variation in size is noticed in the series.
All the specimens of this species which I took were captured among the weeds of an unused field and in the grass in our yard.
The males stridulate continually and their constant creeeecreeecreee may be heard from every side on a warm day.
This species fills the place which is occupied by Nemobius fasciatus in the North.
M. H. Nemobius socius Scudder.
This sti iking form is represented b' one male and ten female specimens all taken at Thomasville in Ma' June July and September.
But two of the specimens are brachypterous the other nine possessing caudate wings.
These specimens were collected at night about the arc lights to which they were attracted by the light.
M. H. Nemobius ambitiosus Scudder.
The beautiful but subdued coloring of the male of this species makes it an easily recognized form and a series of thirty individuals of both sexes have been examined.
They were taken at Thomasville in February March April October November and December.
In the spring of 1903 several individuals were taken in Leon count There is some variation in the depth of color in the females ranging from dull blackish to blackish brown and umber.
This beautiful species is ever present lacing astir on the coldest winter days.
I heard one specimen stridulating in the pine straw on a morning when the mercury had just risen above freezing.
The sound produced by the males is quite different from that of any other species but it would be indeed difficult to describe the pitch which makes it so.
M. H. Nemobius cubensis Saussure.
This species which bears quite a superficial resemblance to N. socius is represented in the collection by five specimens one male and four females the male individual being referred here with a little doubt.
All the specimens were taken in May and June 1903 at Thomasville.
Nemobius exiguus Blatchley.
It was with considerable surprise that this species was recognized in the material studied but a series of fortyseven specimens appear to be perfectly referable to this species previously known only from Indiana.
Thomasville individuals were taken in January February and December and one specimen was collected at the Ocklockonee river on March 29 1904.
This species was very plentiful in certain localities in the pine woods along the branches where the ground was low and marshy.
The series of fortyseven could easily have been doubled.
M. H. Nemobius carolinus Scudder.
Thirteen specimens five males and eight females represent this beautiful species.
They were all taken at Thomasville in December on sphagnum.
All of these specimens were taken at Thomasville during December in beds of sphagnum.
The specimens were wary and when in danger would hide in the sphagnum from which they could then be easily taken.
The bright lacquer color of the head legs and body of these distinguished them at a glance from all other species.
M. H. Gryllus pennsylvanicus Burmeister.
Four specimens of this species are contained in the collection two males and two females from Thomasville taken on August 29 1903.
Gryllus rubens Scudder.
This species which was described from a single female individual from Auburn Alabama is represented by a series of sixty specimens almost equally divided between the sexes.
They are all from Thomasville taken in July and August one immature individual however having been taken in March.
A great amount of variation is exhibited in the intensity of the color pattern some individuals having the dull reddish markings on the lateral portions of the pronotum obsolete and the red on the posterior femora is more extensive in some individuals than in others.
Gryllus luctuosus Serville.
Specimens of this species from Thomasville taken in Iay and June 1903 have been examined.
Ecanthus quadripunctatus Bentenmiiller.
This species is represented by a series of one hundred and twentytwo specimens from Thomasville.
The months represented are June September and October.
Considerable variation is exhibited in the pattern and intensity of the black markings on the basal joints of the antennae.
Anaxipha exigua Say.
Three specimens of this species one male two females have been examined all taken at Thomasville in April and July.
The females are slightly larger than Pennsylvania specimens.
Falcicula hebardi Rehn.
This interesting species is represented by a series of fifteen males ten females and four immature individuals.
The months represented are March April and July.
The immature individuals are considerably darker and more winecolored than the adults and are longitudinally striped with dark brown which gives them a rather peculiar appearance.
This species although restricted to colonies among the wiregrass of the pine woods may be taken in numbers at the right time of year.
Although very active and resembling the wiregrass closely in color they are easy to capture with the aid of a net.
I noticed them to jump from clump to clump of the grass clinging to the topmost blades.
Both sexes are equally agile.
M. H. Hapithus brevipennis Saussure.
This species which was described from Georgia and Louisiana is represented by three adult males two adult females and three immature individuals from Thomasville.
The months represented are July August and October.
The males have the stripe on the margin of the dorsal field much more richly colored than in the females.
Orocharis gryllodes Pallas.
This beautiful species is represented by a series of four male and seven female specimens taken at Thomasville in December 1903.
One female individual is uniformly colored as in the males but the others are sprinkled with umber.
This species is easily separated from 0. saltator by the broader and subequal pronotum and the greater number of rami of the mediastine vein.
All of these specimens were taken from under sign boards on oak trees where they were evidently hibernating.
On one occasion several specimens were taken from under the same sign.
M. H. DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF EARTHWORM DIPLOCARDIA LONGA FROM GEORGIA.
BY J. PERCY MOORE.
Forming part of a small collection of earthworms gathered by Mrs. T. W. Walker in Pulaski county Georgia and secured for the Academy through the interest of Mr. Joseph Willcox are seven specimens of a hitherto unnoticed species of Diplocardia.
Its most distinctive feature is found in the coexistence of the second gizzard and the first pair of spermathecffi in the same somite in which respect it is unique among known species of the genus.
In the presence of the gizzards in somites VI and VII it resembles D. michaelseni but differs from that species in the possession of three pairs of spermathecse.
The latter character and numerous others which appear in the following description evidently ally it to the communis group but the great number of segments high level of the nephridial openings form of the spermathecfe etc. are diagnostic.
Diplocardia longa n. sp.
Size of D. covimunis length in moderate extension up to 275 mm.
 diameter at VII 5 mm. behind the clitellum 4 mm.
Number of segments 270 to 330.
Form slender terete throughout  diameter increasing to VII then diminishing to the clitellum which is slightly enlarged and prominent then narrowing a little and remaining nearly uniform to near the end where a slight clubshaped enlargement precedes a final shrinkage to the anal ring.
Prostomium very short broad and nearly truncate in most specimens scarcely projecting beyond the peristomium into which it is tenoned for about onehalf the length of the latter.
The exact form however differs in the several specimens  in some the two sides nearly meet within the peristomium in others they are more nearly parallel and may be continued by grooves nearly to the posterior border of the latter or they may merge into transverse grooves.
Both prostomium and peristomium are much marked above with longitudinal wrinkles and the former has a deep ventral furrow.
The somites increase in length to VII and then diminish to about onehalf in the postclitellial region after which they change but Httle till the posterior end is approached.
Somites II and III are simple IV is biannulate with the furrow just behind the setse and consequentlynearer to the posterior margin V has a median setigerous annulus partially cut off from the larger annulus.
The remaining preclitellial segments are conspicuously triannulate the middle or setigerous annulus being the narrowest but most prominent.
Occasionally the first annulus is again subdivided into two.
When the clitellum is present as in most of the specimens the segments of this region are smooth and undivided dorsally at least but in immature worms the annulation appears here also.
In all but the most posterior of the postclitellial somites also the triannular structure is apparent but is generally inconspicuous except in the more anterior ones or those strongly contracted.
The usual four pairs of setse are present on all somites except the peristomium a few preanal and XIX the latter of which lacks the ventral pairs only.
All are strictly paired and strongly ventral in position but the intervening spaces vary somewhat.
On XVI the setal formula is ab  j aa aa 2 J cd ab  cd bc  aa dd  about f semicircumference.
Ordinary seta
stout sigmoid bluntpointed thickened distad of middle the outer end slightly sculptured with a reticulum of fine lines giving to the setse an appearance of being covered with delicate scales.
Spermathecal copulatory setse the ventral ones on VII VIII and IX similar but with much bolder sculpturing and apparently unaccompanied by special glands.
Penial setse the ventral ones on XVIII and XX capillary tapering somewhat thickened within the bodywalls with slight sinuous curvatures especially near the end which may be slightly hooked.
They are about twice as long or somewhat more than the ordinary setse and only I to 1 as thick.
Near the end is a sculptured region marked with close transverse lines appearing as fine notches on the profiles but the end itself for a considerable distance is smooth or longitudinally striated.
Dorsal pores begin at  or usually j and are conspicuous.
The position of the nephridiopores is remarkable in being widely removed from the dorsalmost seta while the former are situated at approximately the two ends of the transverse diameter of the body the latter are fully 15 to 30 below these points.
Successive nephridiopores are usually alternately at a little higher and lower level and are on the extreme anterior borders of the somites  almost in the furrows  the first on III.
Spermathecal pores are less easily found.
They occur in line with seta a on the anterior part of somites VII VIII and LX and are consequently presetal and postseptal.
Though present in all but one the clitcllum is perfect
 developed only in the largest specimen.
It covers seven segments XIII to XIX inclusive and is completely annular and of uniform thickness on the first five but interrupted or much thinner on the middle ventral region of the last two.
On the posterior clitellial and several of the immediately succeeding segments occur certain papillae and grooves utilized during copulation.
Two pairs of papillse situated on the posterior part of XVII or on  and on the posterior part of XX or f  are constant on all of the specimens  a third pair situated on XXI or j is complete in one specimen represented by a median papilla in one by the left only in three specimens by the right only in one and is totally absent in the seventh in which however indistinct thickened areas appear in the median field of j and gj.
In one specimen a small median papilla is present on XVII between those of the pair.
When the papillse overlap the contiguous iDorders of two segments which is the normal condition the affected furrows are obliterated ventrally.
In most cases the first pair of papillae are much the largest and the third the smallest but in this respect also they are variable.
All of the papillffi are low broad disks of an irregular elliptical or sometimes circular form.
The central portion is more translucent and either elevated or depressed above the more opaque firmer rim which contains a circle of glands.
The entire structure of these papillse indicates that in addition to a secretory adhesive function of the rim the center acts as a true vacuum sucker.
Just anterior and posterior to each pair of suckers transverse grooves usually extend across the venter and other shorter and less constant ones may occur.
Very constant and conspicuous are a pair of longitudinal grooves reaching in the line of the ventral seta from the middle of XVIII to the middle of XX.
Each groove consists of three parts a short anterior section reaching from the setaj of XVIII to the furrow xx a longer middle section extending for the entire length of XIX and a short posterior section completing the groove to the setae of XX.
All three sections are strongly curved the anterior and posterior with the convexity outward. the middle with the convexity directed inward.
At the point of junction of the anterior and middle sections in the furrow xix' '' g'oo'' enlarges into a small triangular sinus containing a minute papilla upon which the male pore opens.
This is perhaps situated rather more on XIX than XVIII.
At each end of the groove and just external to the closely approximated penial setse of somites XVIII and XX are the external openings of the two pairs of prostate glands the secretion of which is therefore brought to the sperm by means of this groove.
Tl.c female pores are situated close together between the ventral setae of XIV but ac invisible in surface views.
No complete coelomic septa exist anterior to j  this space being largely occupied by the radiating pharyngeal muscles  is slightly thickened y and jj about twice as thick and jj to Jj each about fomtimes as thick as ordinary septa and extremely muscular.
From VT VIII vn  IX  septa are strongly funnelshaped and nested.
The pharynx occupies III and IV a short oesophagus X the strongly muscular gizzards VI and VII  then follows a straight narrow canal which appears to lack calciferous pouches but is slightly enlarged with yellowish thickened and very vascular walls in the posterior part of X and presents a similar' but less pronounced structure in XI.
The true sacculated intestine begins in XVIII.
The anus is a wide vertical slit.
The brain is transverse about five times as wide as long without median constriction or any lobing and is situated in II.
The ventral cord is remarkable for the complete and extremely thick muscular sheath which equals h the diameter of the cord proper at a ganglionic enlargement.
Although present in other species of Diplocardia the muscular sheath is in this one thicker than usual.
Apparently there are no peculiarities of the vascular system.
Unlike the type species the dorsal vessel is single and undivided throughout in the three examples dissected.
Strongly enlarged hearts occur in XIII and a slightly enlarged pair in XII.
The nephridia begin in III and appear to be present in every succeeding somite.
Except for the first five pairs which are more compactly coiled and of smaller size they have the longlooped form described for other species of the genus.
Three pairs of spermathecse exist in the anterior parts of somites VII VIII and IX attached to th
body floor at the base of the corresponding septa behind which they rise freely to a high level though occasionally they pass through the neural arch of the septum nto the preceding somite.
All of the spermathecse have the pouch and stalk very distinctly differentiated and 'are especially characterized by the great length of the latter and the very low position of the diverticulum which arises from its lateral s'de at the point at which it enters the body wall.
The pouch has in general the form shown in fig.
1 which represents the second spermatheca and in all of the specimens examined is strongly flattened latera ly.
The stalk is Fio.
1   esLSt as long as and usually longer than the pouch .nd also more or ess flattened by the pressure of the 1904.
807 neighboring organs.
The flat spreading diverticulum opens into the base of the stalk by a short narrow duct.
In three specimens dissected the pouch increases in size successively from the first to the third spermatheca and the diverticulum diminishes correspondingly.
While completely divided into two or even three lobes in the first the latter is in the second and third cither simple or very faintly bilobed.
The testes occupy the usual position in somites X and XI and two IX pairs of sperm sacs are borne on the anterior face of septum  and the posterior face of septum .
The latter are much and deeply lobulated having the aspect of dense tufts of broadly clavate or stalked spheroidal bodies.
The sperm funnels lie in somites X and XI attached to the posterior septa near the coelomic floor and close to the ventral nerve cord.
They are of simple form and consist chiefly of a pair of broad lobes partly folded together like the two lobes of a Dioncea leaf.
After penetrating the septa the vasa deferentia plunge at once into the longitudinal muscular layer of the body wall which they penetrate to a depth of about i of its thickness and continue at this level in the line of the ventral setae to a point near the male gonopore when they bend sharply outward toward the surface.
Throughout their course the two vasa deferentia of each side lie side by side but are perfectly distinct untfl quite at the external orifice where they coalesce at a common opening.
The ovaries are conspicuous fimbriated fanshaped structures consisting of numerous chains of ova attached to the posterior face of septum xinTrumpetshaped oviducts the mouths of which are formed very much like the sperm funnels perforate the septum  and at once penetrate the body floor obliquely backward and inward.
Near the fxternal surface they bend sharply toward the median line and open in the setae zone on the ventral surface of XIY separated by an interval of about j aa or less than the transverse diameter of the nerve cord with its sheath.
The external pores are so small that they can be detected only n sections.
The prostate glands fig.
2 are large and conspicuous and are variously folded sharply back and forth evcral times within the limits of the single segments XVIII and XX which the two pairs respectively occupy.
The glandular portion and the muscular duct are sharply differentiated and the latter arises directly from the end of the former.
The former is about three times as thick and three and onehalf times as long as the latter cylindrical and tubular with a distinct lumen throughout and thick walls composed of gland cells in various stages of activity.
The integuments are translucent and the colors dull in life.
The anterior and usually the extreme posterior ends are hair brown varying in shade  the clitellum is russet and the remainder of the body neaily salmon pink or sometimes ecru.
Through the less pigmented portions of the skin the blood vessels show conspicuously of a deep purple color.
These worms are very sluggish but may be stimulated to greater activity by exposure to light which they seek to avoid.
They ovcur in moit sandy soil.
NEW CLAUSILIID OF THE JAPANESE EMPIRE X.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
In this tenth article upon Japanese Clausiliidce the species discovered by Mr. Nakada in the Ryiikyu Islands and by Mr. Azuma in Satsiima and its islands are dealt with together with a few forms from other parts of the empire.
The two collectors mentioned working under Ir.
Hirase's direction have about doubled the number of land mollusks known from the Ryukyu Islands.
Tokunoshima has proved particularly rich.
The transition from the Ryukyuan fauna to that of Japan proper is found in Yakujima and Tanegashima Osumi and in the Koshikijima group south of Satsuma.
In these islands there is a strong Ryukjian strain but the Kyushu faunal element predominates.
In the Ryukyu group the Clausiliidce are present in abundance.
Except Stereophcedusa none of the Japanese groups are represented the species I formerly referred to Hemiphcedusa being so far specialized that thoy may more properly be segregated as separate groups.
Luchuphcedusa and the Zaptychoid forms predominate.
Some of them are wonderfully specialized.
Diceratoptyx for instance has almost lost the lunella which remains as a minute vestige only the lower palatal plica has been crowded upward and its place taken by the dilated subcolumellar lamella.
Oligozaptyx and some Luchuphsedusas are almost ecually modified in other directions.
As a whole the Clausiliidce are more specialized than those of either China or Japan and bear out the proposition I have elsewhere advanced that insular faunas age more rapidly than those of larger or continental areas.
HeMIPH.EDUSOID PHYLUM.
Section MEGALOPH.EDUSA Bttg.
Clausilia ducalis rex n. subsp.
Larger and especially wider throughout than C. ducalis superior lamella contiguous to the spiral lamella but not united with it prin Seven papers haA'e appeared under the title Additions to the Japanese Land Snail Fauna Parts II to VIII one as Catalogue of Clausiliidte of the Japanese Empire and one Land Mollusks of the Loo Choo Islands Clausiliidse.
All were published in these Proceedings 1900 to 1903.
52 cipal plica short upper palatal plica short but well developed a low ridge lunella below it.
Length 42 diam.
9 mm.
 whorls 11.
Length 39 diam.
9 mm.
 whorls 10.
Amagisan Izu.
Types No.
85730 A. N. S. P. from No.
1139 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Clausilia cymatodes n. sp.
PI.
LIV figs.
29 30 31 32 33.
Shell rimate strong the last two whorls of about equal diameter occupying over half the length of the shell those above rapidly tapering somewhat attenuate toward the apex.
Yellowishbrown.
Surface glossy sculptured with coarse strong somewhat irregular ribs rapidly decreasing to striae on the spire the early whorls smooth from wear.
Whorls 10 convex the last flattened laterally.
The aperture is rhombicovate vertical.
Peristome continuous rather broadly reflexed and thickened within.
Superior lamella marginal rather high continuous with the spiral lamella which penetrates to a point above the superior lamella.
Inferior lamella low and receding thick below obliquely ascending as long inside as the spiral lamella.
Subcolumellar lamella emerging.
Principal plica dorsal and lateral extending past the palatal plicae of which there are three lateral in position.
Length 22 diam.
5 mm.
Length 21 diam.
4.7 mm.
Clausilium PI.
LIV figs.
29 30 31 narrow and parallelsided obtuse and obliquely rounded at the apex bluntly angular in the middle of the palatal margin not excised near the filament.
Tajiromura Osumi.
Types No.
87610 A. N. S. P. from No.
1249 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This ribstriate little Megalophcedusa is related to C. hiraseana.
It differs in being much smaller light colored not quite so coarsely sculptured wdth emerging subcolumellar lamella.
C. nagashimana of the neighboring province Satsuma is more closely related but that is also a large dark form.
Both of these species differ widely from C. cymatodes in the shape of the clausilium which in cymatodes is very obtuse at the distal end.
The number of palatal plicae will probably prove to be variable.
Clausilia nagashimana n. sp.
PI.
LIV figs.
25 26 27 2S.
The shell is similar to C. hiraseana Pils. but it is much more finely sculptured and the superior lamella does not reach the margin.
Length 28 diam 6.6 mm.
 whorls about IH.
The clausilium PI.
LIV figs.
27 28 is long and narrow attenuated distally and not excised near the filament.
Nagashima Satsuma.
Types No.
87607 A. N. S. P. from No.
1243 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
The type specimen is colored like C. hiraseana the superior is continuous with the spiral lamella and the subcolumellar lamella emerges though it does not reach the lipedge.
Another specimen evidently from a more moist locality is eroded dull whitish partially overgrown with green algse.
The subcolumellar lamella is immersed and the superior lamella is separated from the spiral.
The clausilium is like that of C. hiraseana.
Without a larger series of specimens it is impossible to tell whether this represents another race or not.
Section HEMIPHDUSA Bttg.
Clausilia ventriluna n. sp.
PI.
LV figs.
68 59 60.
Shell slender fusiform attenuated toward the apex rather solid and strong brown somewhat glossy very closely and finely striate the striae a little closer on the back of the last whorl.
Wliorls 9 or 10 the first one globose sometimes selfamputated.
The attenuated early whorls are very convex the later ones less so and the last whorl is somewhat flattened laterally with a noticeable impression marking the position of the principal plica.
The aperture is trapezoidalovate somewhat oblique the peristome reflexed slightly thickened continuous and well raised across the parietal wall.
The superior lamella is small marginal and oblique continuous with the spiral lamella which is very high within and penetrates across the ventral side.
The inferior lamella recedes deeply and within the back ascends obliquely and is nearly straight.
It is far smaller and lower than the spiral lamella but penetrates as deeply.
The subcolumellar lamella emerges to the lipedge.
The principal plica is very long reaching nearly to the peristome and penetrating inward to a point above the sinulus.
The lunella with the upper and lower palatal plicae is shaped like the letter I and is nearly ventral in position.
Length 15.7 diam.
3 mm.
Length 15.3 diam.
3.4 mm.
The clausilium PI.
LV figs.
58 59 is long and narrow parallelsided obliquely rounded distally and very deeply excised on the columellar side of the filament.
Yasudamura.
Tosa.
Types No.
87576 A. N. S. P. from No 1011 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
In this Hemi'phcedusa of the group of C. aulacophora the phcse and lamellae penetrate very deeply  across the ventral side  and the lunella stands in a ventral position above the coliimellar margin of the peristome.
In C. aulacophora and C. pigra the lunella is lateral but of the same shape.
C. ventriluna is very closely related to C. caryostoma and C. c. jayi which have the armature similarly deepseated  but neither of these forms has a perfect lunella uniting the two palatal plicae.
The clausilium is not thickened distally as in Tyrannophcedusa but otherwise C. ventriluna has much in common with C.
Tyr.
aurantiaca.
Other specimens from Tsushima Awa Shikoku are smaller than those from Yasudamura and the superior lamella is either separated from the spiral lamella or but weakly connected therewith.
The principal plica is a little shorter inside.
In some of the specimens the subcolumellar lamella emerges to the lipedge and is bounded by furrows.
In others it is immersed or very feebly and slightly emerges.
These shells are No.
1187 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Clausilia ikiensis n. sp.
PI.
LV figs.
45 46 50 51.
Shell small fusiform dark or pale reddishbrown somewhat shining weakly striatulate the last whorl becoming densely and finely striate on the back.
Spire decidedly attenuate above.
Wliorls 9 convex the last somewhat flattened peripherally.
Aperture rhombicovate somewhat oblique the peristome continuous reflexed and somewhat thickened within the parietal margin well raised straight or a little emarginate over the superior lamella.
Superior lamella slightly oblique compressed marginal continuous with the spiral lamella which extends inward scarcely to the middle of the ventral side.
Inferior lamella deeply receding straightly ascending within the back not penetrating quite so deeply as the spiral lamella.
Subcolumellar lamella very weakly emerging.
Principal plica not long dorsal and lateral.
Upper palatal .plica short united in the middle to the oblique  narrow lunella which curves inward below.
Below the lower end of the lunella there is a short straight lower palatal plica.
Length 12 diam.
3 mm.
Length 11.5 diam.
2.8 mm.
The clausilium PI.
LV figs.
50 51 is parallelsided rounded distally and deeply excised on the columellar side of the filament.
It is decidedly arcuate.
Mush5zumura Iki.
Types No.
86063 A. N. S. P. from No.
1088 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This Hemiphcedusa is structurally similar to species of the group of C. awajiensis except in having a lower palatal plica distinct from the lunella  a structure not found in any other known species of that group.
The lower end of the lunella curves inward less than in most species of the group of C. awajiensis.
It has some characters of Hemizaptyx.
Clausilia platydera var.
minoensis nov.
Shell smaller than platydera with the last whorl built forward carrying the aperture shortly free.
Upper palatal plica rather long arcuate making an angle with the lunella instead of being merely a short curve continuous with the latter.
The subcolumellar lamella is immersed or weakly emerges.
.
Length 18 diam.
3.9 mm.
Length 18 diam.
3.5 mm.
Length 15 diam.
3.3 mm.
Minakamimura Mino.
Types No.
86468 A. N. S. P. from No.
1172 of Mr. Hirase's collection Clausilia mikawa n. sp.
PI.
LIV figs.
39 40 41.
Shell subcylindric below tapering above the spire moderately attenuate and rather thick the four or five upper whorls widening very little then the intermediate whorls increase rapidly.
Thin pale greenishyellow imperfectly translucent.
Sculpture of nearly regular oblique and fine ribstriae the intervals very finely striate spirally.
The sculpture is not noticeably coarser on the back of the last whorl.
Apex obtuse.
Whorls 11 convex.
Aperture sub vertical widely ovate the peristome white narrowly reflexed somewhat thickened within adnate above but continuous in a slightly raised ledge across the parietal wall.
Superior lamella small and compressed oblique continuous with or contiguous to the spiral lamella which penetrates to the middle of the ventral side.
Inferior lamella receding but visible as a rather sharp fold in the throat slightly spiral as seen within the back and penetrating a little deeper than the spiral lamella.
Subcolumellar lamella immersed or weakly emerging.
Principal plica short dorsal and lateral.
Palatal plicae 3 or 4 visible through the shell subequal or the intermediate 1 or 2 shorter.
Length 21 to 22 diam.
5 mm.
Clausilium thin and rounded distally not excised near the filament.
Sanganeyama Mikawa.
Types No.
86519 A. N. S. P. from No.
1167 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This pale and rather thin species is more distinctly decussate between the striae than other forms known to me.
It has the color of some species of the group of C. sublunellata but the sculpture is stronger and the palatal armature better developed.
The smaller C. decussata Marts. from Tsukubasan Hitachi may be related but I have not seen that species.
The spiral striae are not sufficiently indicated in fig.
41.
Clausilia hosayaka n. sp.
PI.
LV figs.
61 62 63.
Shell slender regularly tapering from the penultimate whorl the upper third attenuate apex obtuse  thin but moderately strong light brown.
Surface glossy very finely striate.
Whorls about 13 moderately convex the last somewhat flattened on the back.
Aperture small oblique squarishpiriform the peristome reflexed somewhat thickened within continuous the parietal margin shortly raised and emarginate above the superior lamella.
Superior lamella compressed only slightly oblique continuous with the spiral lamella which penetrates to the middle of the ventral side.
Inferior lamella receding visible in the aperture as a small fold straightly ascending within the back penetrating a little further inward than the spiral lamella.
Subcolumellar lamella either emerging to the lipedge or immersed.
Principal plica short chiefly dorsal.
Upper palatal plica short oblique not connected with the very weak lateral lunella which is obsolete below and curves inward above or connects with a short weak second palatal plica.
There is no lower palatal plica.
Length 22.5 diam.
4.5 mm.
Length 21.5 diam.
4.3 mm.
Kamomura Shima.
Types No.
86521 A. N. S. P. from No.
1176 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
By its palatal armature this species belongs to the Hemiphsedusan group of C. sublunellata.
It is readily distinguished from other known species of that group by the greater number of whorls and more slender spire.
The lunella is very feebly developed and probably will be found to be sometimes obsolete as in some other species of the group.
Clausilia koshikijimana n. sp.
PI.
LV figs.
53 54 55 56 57.
Shell fusiform much attenuated above very solid and strong pale yellow somewhat glossy closely and finely striate.
Whorls 9 the first quite small the rest convex the last whorl somewdiat flattened.
The aperture is ovate and projects shortly free peristome white reflexed and thickened within.
The superior lamella is marginal low and ollique continuous with the spiral lamella which penetrates to a point above the sinulus.
The inferior lamella recedes deeply is straight and oblique within and thickened at the lower end.
It does not penetrate quite so far as the spiral lamella.
The siibcolumellar lamella Ls deeply immersed.
The principal plica is dorsal and lateral approaching the lip.
There is an oblique series of about 5 small slender palatal plicae situated upon a low ridge.
Length 14.3 diam.
3.4 mm.
Length 13 diam.
3.3 mm.
Length 11 diam.
3 mm.
The clausHium PI.
LV figs.
55 56 is narrow the distal half tapering to the rounded apex.
It is moderately excised on the columellar side of the filament.
ShimoKoshikijima Satsuma.
Types No.
87604 A. N. S. P. from No.
1239 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
A small solid pale species not closely related to any form I have seen.
The several palatal plicae stand upon a low callous ridge.
There is a good deal of variation in size.
Section TYRANNOPH.EDUSA Pils.
Clausilia aurantiaca sakui n. subsp.
PI.
LV fig.
52.
Shell similar in form to C. aurantiaca but quite thin finely distinctly and sharply striate pale brownishyellow whorls 9 to 10.
Superior lamella separated from the spiral subcolumellar lamella emerging  clausilium with the upper and lower palatal plicae imperfectly Ishaped PI.
LV fig.
52 lateroventral.
Clausilium similar to that of C. aurantiaca but more delicate.
Length 13 diam.
3 mm.
Riujin Akizu Kii.
Types No.
86473 A. N. S. P. from No.
1046 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This form is also somewhat similar to C. caryostoma and C. c. jayi both of which have the closing armature subventral but the clausilium differs and the palatal plicae are shorter in C. a. sakui.
Section NESIOPH.EDUSA nov. Group of C. ptycJwchila Pils. Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1901 p. 418.
Phaedusoid Clausilise of normal contour with a tendency to weak interlamellar plication.
Inferior lamella prominent in the mouth spirally ascending thick sometimes indistinctly doubled within palatal armature lateral the lunella arising from the middle of a strong lower palatal plica and curving inward above in a short upper palatal plica.
Clausilium very convex on the palatal side tapering distally to a blunt thickened apex channeled on the outer face.
Type C. hernardii Pfr.
I formerly included the species of this section in Hemiphcedusa from which they differ totally in the form of the clausilium and in the spirally ascending inferior lamella.
C. exceUens of which the clausilium and palatal armature are unknown will probably be found to belong to Luchuphcedusa.
The other species are closely related.
Clausilia okinoerabuensis n. sp.
PI.
LII figs.
13 14.
Shell subcylindric below the upper half tapering and somewhat attenuate pale uniform yellowishcorneous.
Surface glossy finely strongly striate the striation coarser on the back of the last whorl.
Whorls 10 the upper 3 smooth.
Aperture ovatepiriform the peristome re flexed and thickened with a small notch on the right side of the superior lamella and very indistinct traces of crenulation near it.
Superior lamella marginal small subvertical continuous with the spiral lamella which penetrates to the left side.
Inferior lamella forming a rather prominent fold in the aperture calloused and spirally ascending within shorter than the spiral lamella.
Subcolumellar lamella emerging to the lipedge.
Principal plica short dorsal and lateral.
Lunella strong oblique arising from the middle of a strong lower palatal plica and bending inward above in a rather long upper palatal plica.
Length 22 to 23 diam.
5 mm.
Clausilium PI LIII figs 23 24 well curved the columellar margin straight slightly excised at the filament the palatal margin very convex then tapering and concave toward the apex which is blunt and thickened.
Okinoerabushima Osumi.
Types No.
87611 A N S. P. from No.
1251 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
A smaller species than C. crenilabium with the upper palatal plica better developed with scarcely any interlamellar plication of the upper lip and a callous but not internally double inferior lamella.
The clausilium is less deeply channeled distall'.
It is not so coarsely sculptured as C. bernardii and is more slender than C. ptijchochila.
Fossil specimens from a deposit of calcareous sand on the shore of Okinoerabushima are similar to the living specimens in structure but some specimens are shorter Length 23.6 diam.
5 mm.
Length 21 diam.
5.4 mm.
Section LUCHUPH.EDUSA Pils.
Clausilia azumai n. sp.
PI.
LII figs.
6 7 Shell solid and strong cylindric below the upper half regularly tapering slightly attenuated above.
Pale yellow.
Tiorls IH convex finely striate the last whorl becoming coarsely striate behind.
Aperture broadly piriform white.
Peristome with the outer and basal margins well reflexed and thickened within columellar and parietal margins beautifully crenulate.
Superior lamella marginal compressed continuous with the spual lamella which penetrates past the aperture to the left side.
Inferior lamella forming a rather small subhorizontal fold in the aperture with an accessory fold below it extending to the margin as long inside as the spiral lamella.
Subcolumellar lamella emerging to the lipedge decidedly shorter inside than the other lamella.
The principal plica is long visible in the throat extending across the ventral side.
The upper palatal plica is very oblique.
Lower palatal plica long and angularly bent a very oblique and rather long lunella arising from the angle.
It lies in a sub ventral position.
Length 25.3 diam.
6 mm.
Clausilium rather broad truncated distally with a wide and rather long thick apical projection on the columellar side and a slight projection on the outer side of the end the palatal margin rounded.
ShimoKoshikijima Satsuma.
TT3e No.
87603 A. N. S. P. from No.
1 237 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This fine species is related to C. calHstochila from which it differs in the following peculiarities  The striation is finer the inferior lamella is more distinctly doubled below the lunella is longer and more ventral in position and the clausilium has a larger process at the apex.
It is also related to C. una Pils. of Goto Hizen but in that species the lunella is shorter and lateral and the clausilium is much less specialized being much like that of Stereophcedusa.
C. azumai is one of the finest species collected this year by Mr. Azuma in the islands of Satsuma.
Clausilia una which I formerly placed in StereojjJicEdusa should probably be transferred to Luchu'phcedusa or to a separate and special section allied to Luchuphadusa characterized by the unspecialized clausilium while all other structures are Luchuphsedusoid C. azumai idiopylis n. subsp.
PI.
LII fig.
8.
Somewhat smaller than C. azumai and dull reddishbrown inner lip less strongly crenate inferior lamella thickened but not distinctly doubled below subcolumellar lamella immersed.
Clausilium PI.
LIII fig.
17 more oblique and more distinctly notched distally.
Length 22 diam.
5.3 mm.
 whorls 11.
This form sent with azumai may prove to be included in the range of variation of that species but in the absence of intermediate specimens it seems best to call attention to its differential features.
Clausilia nakadai n. sp.
PI.
LI I fig.s.
9.
10 11.
Shell fusiform moderately attenuate above yellow the worn early horls whitish nearly lusterless finely striate.
Whorls 10 convex the latter half of the last flattened.
Aperture piriform white within with distinct slightly retracted sinulus.
Peristome broadly reflexed with a fold or doubling behind thickened within.
ColumeUar and parietal margins crenulated.
The superior lamella is compressed vertical and marginal and continuous with the spiral lamella which is very high and penetrates past the ventral side to the middle of the left side.
The inferior lamella projects as a very strong columellar fold in the aperture and penetrates inward slightly farther than the spiral lamella.
The subcolumellar lamella emerges to the lipedge and penetrates as deeply as the spiral lamella.
The principal plica extends nearly to the lip and enters deeply.
There is a rather long oblique upper palatal plica and an obliqueh ascending and entering lunella arising from the summit of a long angularly bent lower palatal plica all lying in a nearly ventral position.
The lower end of the lower palatal plica is visible in the aperture in an oblique view.
Length 20.5 diam.
5 mm.
Length 18.5 diam.
4.8 mm.
Clausilium PL LIII figs.
18 19 strongly curved spirally the columellar side of the apex projecting in a thick blunt process the palatal side rounded a wide shallow notch in the middle.
Proximally it tapers gradually and without excision into the filament.
Matsubara Tokunoshima.
Types No.
87594 A. N. S. P. from No.
1205a of Mr. Hirase's collection.
C nakadai is intermediate between C. callistochila and C. oshimas in size geographic position and morphology.
The aperture resembles that of oshimce in shape but is wider and the right lip is more crenulated.
The lamellae are not quite so long as in oshimoi.
The lunella is better developed than in either of the other species and the lower palatal plica is far shorter than in C. oshimce but differs from that of callistochila in shape.
This handsome Luchuphcedusa is named in honor of Mr. Nakada who has brought to light more Riukiuan land snails than all other collectors combined.
C. nakadai degenerata n. subsp.
PL LII fig.
12.
Fresh specimens are pale corneousbuff very glossy and typically more slender than nakadai with the aperture a little narrower and more projecting the right hp less re flexed thin irregularly and more or less ohsoletely crenulate.
In internal structure it agrees with nakadai.
The clausilium PI.
LIII fig.
22 is more deeply notched distally than in C. nakadai.
Length 24 diam.
4.6 mm.
 whorls IH.
Length 21 diam.
4.5 mm.
 whorls 104.
From Sanmura and Matsubara specimens were sent No.
1205 agreeing with Nakada's Clausilia in internal structure but with the right lip thin and crenulate only at the edge.
Some are glossy and slender others somewhat stouter and decorticated throughout.
Clausilia tokunoshimana n. sp.
PI.
LII figs.
4 5.
Shell cylindric below the upper half rapidly tapering solid very pale brownishyellow.
Surface glossy when unworn costulate more  coarsely so on the back of the last whorl.
Whorls 10 moderately convex the last half of the lower whorl contracted.
Aperture trapezoidalovate white the outer margin of the peristome well reflexed and thickened within columellar and parietal margins narrower closely and finely crenulate the crenulation sometimes subobsolete.
Superior lamella marginal rather small continuous with the spiral lamella which penetrates to the middle of the left side.
Inferior lamella forming a prominent columellar fold more or less distinctly doubled below penetrating inward as deeply as the spiral lamella.
Subcolumellar lamella emerging to the lipedge ascending within nearly as far as the other lamellsB.
The principal plica is rather short lateroventral not visible in the aperture.
Upper palatal plica small oblique.
Lower palatal plica long and bent the long and very oblique ventral lunella arising from it in the middle.
The lower palatal plica is not visible in the aperture.
Length 17 diam.
4.2 mm.
Length 16 diam.
4 mm.
The clausihum PI.
LIII figs.
20 21 is very broad distally and has a long projection on the columellar side the palatal side is broadly rounded.
It is not excised at the filament.
Tokunoshuna Osumi the types from Sanmura No.
87586 A. N. S. P. from No.
1200 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Other similar specimens were sent from Teteyama near Sanmura No.
1200a.
This species is allied to C. mima of Oshima but differs in being larger and very coarsely sculptured the lunella is nearly ventral and there is a whorl or two more.
The clausilium is similar in the two species.
Section OOPHDUSA nov.
The clausilium is well curved spatulate with a thick rib near the columellar side of the distal half continued and projecting fingerlike at the apex proximally it tapers into the filament and is not emarginate.
The shell is short oblong of few whorls 66 in the species known the summit very obtuse entire.
Superior continuous with the spiral lamella.
Inferior lamella strongly spiral within lifid below.
Upper and lower palatal plica long the latter united with an oblique lunella.
The only species now known has a crenulate lip like Luchiiphosdusa and the palatal armature and clausilium are similar in the two groups but in Luchuphcedusa the shell is shaped like ordinary Clausilias while in Oophcedusa the thickset shell is not in the least attenuate above being shaped like a snake's egg and there are but few whorls.
Clausilia ophidoon n. sp.
PI.
LII figs.
1 2 3.
Shell oblong fusiform with blunt ends the penultimate whorl widest moderately strong brown finely striate throughout except the first whorl which is whitish and smooth somewhat shining.
Wliorls 6 the first rather large not projecting forming a large very obtuse apex last whorl tapering.
Aperture slightly oblique piriform the peristome white reflexed thickened within the columellar and parietal margins closely and strongly folded the edge crenulate.
Superior lamella thin and high marginal continuous with the spiral lamella which penetrates past the aperture to the left side.
Inferior lamella emerging to the lipedge spirally ascending within and penetrating about as far as the superior lamella below it branches off in a columellar lamella which also emerges to the lipedge.
Subcolumcllar lamella emerging.
Principal plica extending from the middle of the dorsal side to a point above the sinulus visible through from the outside.
Upper palatal plica lateroventral long converging inward toward the principal plica.
Lower palatal plica very long and very oblique united with a very oblique lunella nearly parallel with the plica.
Length 14.4 diam.
5 mm.
Length 13 diam.
4.5 mm.
Clausilium PI.
LIII figs.
15 16 strongly curved spatulate the palatal margin strongly arcuate.
A callous rib arises about midway of the columellar margin and projects in a fingerlike process at the apex.
ShimoKoshikijima Satsuma.
Types No.
87602 A. N. S. P. from No.
1235 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This remarkable species has no near allies among known Clausilias.
One specimen sent with the type lot is smaller length 11.7 diam.
4 mm. with 6 whorls pale yellowish in color and the inferior lamella proper while visible in the throat does not extend to the lip PI.
LIT fig.
3.
Rection STEREOPH.EDUSA Bttg.
Clausilia subMckonis n. sp.
PI.
LIV figs.
34 35 36 37 38.
Shell fusiform attenuate above but terminating in a rather large apex solid light yellow rather strongly ribstriate.
Whorls 12 to 12 convex the first 3 or 4 cylindric the penultimate whorl swollen as seen dorsally last whorl flattened convex below not noticeably different in sculpture.
Aperture ovate subvertical the peristome white roflexed and thickened within continuous in a slightly raised ledge across the parietal wall a little sinuous or notched at the position of the superior lamella.
Superior lamella decidedly oblique marginal continuous within with the spiral lamella which penetrates inward to the middle of the ventral side.
Inferior lamella appearing in front as a strong subhorizontal fold crossing a much more oblique callous columcllar fold wdiich continues weakly upon the lip the whole appearing as two nodules.
Within the back the inferior lamella is strongly spiral but not very high.
It penetrates inward more deeply than the supeiior lamella.
The subcolumellar lamella emerges to the lipedge.
The principal plica is very short and lateral.
Palatal plicae 4 strong somewhat oblique and parallel the lower one a little arcuate the two intermediate plicae shorter than the others.
Length 21 to 22.5 diam.
5 mm.
The clausilium PI.
LIV figs.
34 35 is narrower than usual in Stereophcedusa the columellar margin is straight a little excised near the filament the palatal margin convex contracting distally the distal end is compressed and ridged inside and the apex is rounded and noticeably thickened.
Isobe Shima.
Types No.
86499 A. N. S. P. from No.
1168 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This Stereophceclusa is related to CI.
hickonis Kobelt but hickonis is more attenuate above has more whorls which are less convex finer sculpture longer upper and lower palatal plicse the latter more curved and the superior lamella in C. hickonis is visually separated from the spiral lamella or at least much lower at their junction.
C. suhhickonis has been taken also at Gokashomura Ise a place not very far from the type locality.
The columella is not quite so conspicuously binodose in these specimens two of which measure  Length 24 diam.
5.5 mm.
Length 23.5 diam.
5 mm.
Like most of the larger Clausilise it is sometimes overgrown with green algae and the original surface destroyed.
Clausilia hickonis saucia n. subp.
Shell fusiform solid brown.
Surface glossy rather coarsely striate the striae nearly as wide as the intervals.
Penultimate whorl widest the spire regularly tapering summit broadly truncate.
Whorls remaining about 8i several whitish empty ones sometimes persisting above the apical plug moderately convex the last tapering downward.
Aperture vertical piriform brown within.
Peristome white continuous reflexed and thickened within the parietal margin short straightened barely free.
Superior lamella marginal high and compressed very oblique continuous with the spiral lamella which penetrates past the middle of the ventral side.
Inferior lamella strong approaching the superior appearing below like a strong lamella crossing an oblique callous columellar fold  extending inward as far as or further than the spiral lamella.
Subcolumellar lamella more or less emerging but not reaching the lipedge.
Principal plica short lateral.
Upper palatal plica rather long obliquely converging inward to the principal plica.
Lower palatal plica nearly as long strong somewhat arcuate parallel to the upper a shorter plica midway between them.
Length 26.3 diam.
6.4 mm.
Length 27 diam.
6.5 mm.
Clausilium rather long and nearly parallelsided well curved obtuse and noticeably thickened apically a little excised on the palatal side of the apex the rest of the palatal margin being arcuate.
Both margins regularly taper to the filament.
Sodayama Tosa.
Types No.
84784 A. N. S. P. from No.
1023 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
The broadly truncate summit and robust stature distinguish this from C. hickonis.
C. fultoni Sykes which is merely a weakly characterized variety of C. vasta Bttg. differs by its more straightly ascending inferior lamella as well as by the entire apex.
Zaptychoid phylum.
The material brought together by Mr. Hirase's collector in the islands of the Ryukyu curve this year enlarge our knowledge of this phylum to such a degree that a revision of the group is required.
The entire series of Zaptychoid Clausiliae consists of small often 1904.
823 very small species fewwhorled  with a clausilium very deeply excised on the columellar side of the filament and abruptly bent and twisted there.
The closing apparatus is always lateral or dorsolateral the lamellse rareljpenetrate as far as the middle of the ventral side and the spiral lamella is usually low.
The sections Oligozaptyx and Diceratoptyx constitute two new secondary phyla independently evolved from the typical group.
In both the clausilium is notched and the whole structure shows great specialization.
Another line of difTerentiation is represented by the sections Metazaptyx and Parazaptyx in wliich the inferior lamella has become spiral thereby obstructing the throat and the clausilium Ls strongly curved.
In Parazaptyx the clausilium is further modified in a peculiar and unexampled manner.
Then we come to a series of groups in which the shell is without accessory plicae and lamellae and now defined as Hemizaptyx and Stereozaptyx.
The species of these groups I had formerly appended to various sectional divisions as aberrant forms.
The eddence now at hand indicates that they are either degenerate or primitive branches of the Zaptyx phylum.
Stereozaptyx may well be a secondarily simplified form of Parazaptyx in which the accessory plicae and lamellae have been obliterated in the general and extreme thickening of the shell walls.
If so immature shells might possibly still show some trace of them.
The interrelations of the subordinate groups and their approximate phylogeny so far as I understand the recent and fossil forms now known may be represented by the following diagram.
The names of those groups of which the position is hypothetical are in italics.
Oligozaptyx Diceratoptyx ZaptyxParazaptyx Metazaptyx Stereozaptyx Hemizaptyx A key to the sections follows I.
 Limella oblique straight becoming more or less incurved below above united with or contiguous to a short or moderate upper palatal plica somewhat in the shape of the letter J except in a few forms where the upper palatal plica is absent.
a.
 Inferior lamella receding obliquely ascending and straightened within the last whorl clausilium parallelsided rounded or acuminate distally usually rather straight except near the filament.
b.
 Shell without sutural plicce.
fulcrum or parallel lamella Section Hcmizaptyx.
h.
 Shell thin sutural pMcce fulcrum and parallel lamella developed Section Zaptyx.
a.
 Inferior lamella spirally ascending within the last whorl usuall projecting into the aperture clausilium strongly curved.
h.  Clausilium tapering distally to an acuminate apex shell solid and strong without sutural plicte or accessory lamellae within no upper palatal plica.
Section Stereozaptyx.
h.
 Clausilium wide the apex obtuse shell thin the inferior lamella approaching the superior as a thin fold in the aperture.
c Clausilium smooth on the outer convex face sutural plicae present .
.
Section Metazaptyx.
cV  ClausUium buttressed on the outer face by an erect transverse plate shell without sutural plicse.
Section Pamzaptyx.
II.
 The lunella arises from the middle of a long arched lower palatal plica and curves inward at its upper end  no superior lamella  sutural plicae fulcrum and parallel lamella developed.
Clausilium short deeply notched on the palatal side near the apex.
Section Oligozaptyx.
III.
 The upper palatal plica is very long an extremely short lunella branching from near its inner end  superior lamella and sutural plicse developed.
Clausilium notched on the palatal side near the apex Section Diceratoptyx.
These groups are new with the exception of Zaptyx.
Thej' are reviewed below except Stereozaptyx  group of C. entospira Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1901 p. 644 type C. entospira Pils.
No other species of Stereozaptyx is known.
Section HEMIZAPTYX nov. A group of small species differing from Zaptyx in lacking sutural plicse and accessory lamellse and often in the texture of the shells.
They are all small mostly under 11 mm.
long.
Most of tliose known 1904.1 arc from Tancgashima and Yakushima bvit the group extends south to Tokunoshima.
Type C. pinto.
The following species belong here  C. pinto PlIs.
Tanegashima Osumi.
C. ptychocyma Pils.
Tancgashima Osumi.
C. ptychocyma ijakushimce Pils.
Yakushima Osumi.
C. asperata Pils.
ShimoKoshikijima Satsuma.
C. caloptyx Pils.
Yakushima Osumi.
C. agna Pils.
Yakushima Osumi.
C. purissima Pils.
Miyakejima Izu.
C. hyperaptyx Pils.
Tokunoshima Osumi.
C. munus Pils.
Oshima Osumi.
Key to Species of Hemizaptyx.
I.
 Clausilium rounded at the distal end.
a Upper palatal plica extremely short or apparently absent merely an enlargement of the upper end of the lunclla.
6.
 Solid and strong nearly smooth lip very thick hardly free above superior lamella contiguous to the spiral subcolumellar lamella emerging.
Tancgashima C. pinto.
b.
 Extremely solid and strong almost smooth the last whorl coarsely wrinkled behind the lip superior lamella seprated from spiral  subcolumellar lamella emerging or immersed.
Tancgashima and Yakushima C. ptychocyma.
b.
 Moderately strong very finely striate the last whorl with spaced riblets behind superior lamella continuous with the spiral subcolumellar lamella immersed.
ShimoKoshikijima Satsuma C. asperata.
a.
 Upper palatal plica short but distinctly developed.
b.
 Solid and strong surface sculptured with strong straight ribs length 7 to 8 mm.
Yakushima .
C. caloptyx.
b.
 Surface smooth brilliantly glossy more or less transparent.
c.  Whorls 6J to 8 shell stoutly fusiform the diameter contained 3 to 4 times in the length subcolumellar lamella weakly emerging.
Yakujima .
C. agna.
c. Whorls 10 shell slenderly fusiform the diameter contained 5 times in the length subcolumellar lamella immersed.
Iiyakejima Izu .
.
C. purissima.
n.  Clausilium angular or acuminate at the distal end superior lamella continuous with the spiral  upper palatal plica rather short scarcely connected with the slightly curved lunella.
a.
 Shell dark glossy and rather thin 10 to 11 mm.
long about 7 whorls sides of the clausilium strongly reflexed.
Tokunoshima C. hyperaptyx.
r.3 aV  Shell brown 13 to 15 mm.
long about 9 to 10 whorls.
Distal half of the clausilium flat.
Oshima .
.
.
.
C. munus.
Clausilia purissima n. sp.
PI.
LV figs.
47 48 49.
Shell slenderly fusiform rather thin transparent with a greenish tint the surface polished with a brilliant gloss faintly marked with slight growthwrinkles.
Spire regularly tapering to the obtuse apex the lateral outlines nearly straight.
Whorls 10 convex parted by a wellmarked suture the last wiiorl a little compressed laterally.
Aperture oval the peristome slightly expanded a little thickened continuous the parietal margin barely free short and straightened Superior lamella marginal rather high and thin oblique continuous with the spiral lamella which penetrates about to the middle of the ventral side.
Inferior lamella hardly visible in a front view receding straightly ascending shorter within than the superior lamella.
Subcolumellar lamella very deeply immersed penetrating inward about as far as the inferior lamella.
Principal plica short dorsolateral visible in the throat penetrating slightly past a lateral position.
Upper palatal plica short dorsolateral.
Lunclla oblique straight strongly curving inward at the lower end not quite reaching the upper palatal plica.
Length 12.3 to 12.8 diam.
2.3 mm.
Clausilium fig.
47 parallelsided the apex rounded abruptly and deeply excised on the columellar side of the filament.
Miyakejima Izu.
Types No.
85731 A. N. S. P. from No.
1089 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
In this exquisite species the shell is so pellucid that the plicae lamellae and axis may be seen through.
It is not closely related to any known species but seems to belong to a group characteristic of the islands south of Kyushu.
It is with some doubt however that I place C. purissima in the group Hemizaptyx.
It may belong to Hcmiphwdusa.
Clausilia asperata n. sp.
PI.
LV figs.
42 43 44.
Shell fusiform the spire noticeably attenuated above moderately strong grayishbrown glossy very finely striate the back of the last whorl sculptured with narrow widely spaced riblets.
Whorls 8 to 9 convex the last tapering.
Aperture ovate the peristome thin expanded and reflexed shortly free and projecting above.
Superior lamella small marginal continuous with the spiral lamella which is rather high within and penetrates nearly to the middle of the ventral side.
Inferior lamella deeply receding not visible from in front inside it is nearly straight thickened and quite high penetrating a little less deeply than the spiral lamella.
The subcolumellar lamella is wholly immersed.
Principal plica short.
The upper palatal plica is extremely short a mere enlargement of the summit of the narrow lunella which is straight above ciurved inward below.
Length 11.2 diam.
2.3 mm.
 whorls 9 figs.
43 44.
Length 9 diam.
2 mm.
 whorls 8 fig.
42.
The clausilium is parallelsided nearly straight rounded at the apex excised on the columellar side of the filament.
The palatal margin is recurved and dilated.
ShimoKoshikijima Satsuma.
Types No.
87606 A. N. S. P. from No.
1242 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species is the only Zaptychoid form yet known from the Koshikijima group.
It is related to C. pinto from Tanegashima but differs in the anteriorly projecting aperture thinner lip less solid shell immersed subcolumellar lamella and the somewhat differently shaped clausilium.
Moreover the back of the last whorl is sculptured with spaced riblets while the rest of the shell has very close delicate strise becoming imperceptible above the middle of the shell.
The largest specimen figs 43 44 is extensively worn and therefore figured in outline.
The sculpture is well shown in fig.
42.
Clausilia hyperaptyx n. sp.
PI.
LVI figs.
85 86 87 88.
The shell is fusiform glossy dark reddishbrown weakly finely striate the back of the last whorl densely and sharply striate.
Upper half of the spire rapidly tapering to a rather acute apex.
'Wliorls 7.
Aperture like that of C. hyperoptyx but the peristome is somewhat more widely expanded.
Superior lamella continuous with the spiral lamella which penetrates to the middle of the ventral side and is much dilated within.
There is no fulcrum or parallel lamella.
The inferior lamella recedes deeply is high strong and nearly straight within the last whorl and penetrates nearly as deeply as the spiral lamella.
The subcolumellar lamella emerges.
The principal plica is a half whorl long dorsal and lateral.
The upper palatal plica is short and lies mainly inward from the upper end of the lunella with which it is scarcely connected.
The lunella is slightly arcuate.
There are no sutural plicce.
Length 10.9 diam.
2.3 mm.
Length 10 diam.
2 mm.
Clausilium PI.
LVI figs.
85 87 88 rather long parallelsided the two sides very strongly recurved see fig.
85 the columellar side is narrowly thickened the distal end is somewhat acuminate.
Tokunoshima Osumi.
Types No.
87597 A. N. S. P. from No.
1230 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species closely resembles C. hyperoptyx in color and sciilpture but is somewhat more obese with more acute apex and it is quite different in internal structure and in the shape of the clausilium.
It is not closely related to any other species now known.
The clausilium resembles that of C. miinus in shape except that in munus it is flat not rolled back on the two sides.
Section ZAPTYX Pilsbry s.str.
Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1900 p. 672.
To the definition of this group may be added  Inferior lamella but slightly curved and obliquely ascending within the last whorl superior and spiral lamellse sometimes continuous end of the clausilium rounded.
The following species belong to this group C. hirasei Pils.
Kagoshima and Sakura Island Satsuma.
C. kikaiensis Pils.
Kikaigashima of the Oshima group.
C. sarissa Pils.
Okinoerabushima of the Oshima group.
C. hyperoptyx Pils.
Ryukyu.
C. hyperoptyx yoronfimana Pils.
Yoronjima.
C. yaeyamensis Pils.
Yaeyama.
It is likely that C. strictaluna Bttg. of Kyushu a species I have not seen will prove to belong to Zaptyx but the clausilium is still unknown.
Clausilia hirasei Pils.
PI.
LVI figs.
64 65 66 67.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1900 pp.
446 673.
The original figure was in outline and new ones are now given for comparison with the other species herein described.
The clausilium figs.
66 67 is more dilated on the palatal side of the filament than in C. hyperoptyx C. sarissa or other related species.
The types were from Kagoshima Satsuma.
The specimens now illustrated are from Sakura Island in Kagoshima Bay.
It is not known from any other localities.
Clausilia kikaiensis n. sp.
PI.
LVI figs.
68 69 70 71.
C. hirasei a more slender form  etc. from Kikai Pilsbry Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1901 p. 465.
C. hirasei var.
kikaie7isis Pils. Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1901 p. 651 no description.
Shell small slender fusiform tapering from the penultimate whorl to the small but obtuse apex near which it is slightly attenuated.
Chestnutbrown of varying shades the last whorl often darker.
Surface glossy faintly striate nearly smooth the back of the last whorl striate the strise usually widely spaced.
Whorls about 8.
Aperture piriform the peristome very narrowly refiexed whitish.
Superior lamella small and low widely separated from the low short spiral lamella.
Inferior lamella receding not visible in a front view  low and obliquely ascending within.
Subcolumellar lamella emerging very slender rising angularly on the palatal wall below the lunella.
A short fulcrum and parallel lamella are present.
Principal plica dorsal and lateral visible in the aperture.
Upper palatal plica extremely short weakly connected with the lunella which is straight above but curves inward slightly at the lower end.
There are three short sutural plicse the middle one often inconspicuous.
Length 9 diam.
2.1 mm.
Length 7.2 diam.
1.7 to 2 mm.
Clausilium PI.
LVI figs.
68 69 rather long parallelsided rounded at the apex deeply excised at the columellar side of the filament.
Kikaigashima.
Osumi.
Types Nos.
79728 and 80787 A. N. S. P. from Nos.
557 and 5576 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
It has also been found by Mr. Nakada at Tokunoshima Osumi No.
1203 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
It will probably turn up on the intermediate islands of the Oshima subgroup.
This species is closely related to C. hyperoptyx of Ryukyu Okinawa but it differs in the less swollen embryonic whorls shorter upper palatal plica less developed superior lamella and usually smaller size though the largest specimens of kikaiensis are equal to hyperoptyx.
C. hirasei from Satsuma along Kagoshima Bay is a decidedly wider shell with less attenuated spire.
The clausilium in C. kikaiensis resembles that of C hirasei and C. sarissa but it is decidedly less dilated on the palatal side of the filament than in C. hirasei.
1 formerly considered the Kikai specimens to be a variety of C. hirasei these Proceedings for 1901 p. 465 but fiuther study of much larger series of both forms shows that their differential features are constant.
They are rather widely separated geographically.
Clausilia sarissa n. sp.
PI.
LVI figs.
72 73 74 75.
Shell cylindric below tapering and a little attenuated above  brown the fully adult shells marked with whitish or creamy lines and streaks.
Surface somewhat glossy very faintly striatulate nearly smooth the last third of the last whorl sharply finely striate.
Whorls 8 quite convex.
Aperture ovate the peristome narrow refiexed and in fully adult shells somewhat thickened at the edge.
Superior lamella small vertical not continuous with the low small spiral lamella.
Inferior lamella receding visible only in an oblique iew in the aperture high and a little curved within not continued parallel to the spiral lamella but a very small inserted lamella I. inserta appears near the end of the spiral lamella.
Subcolumellar lamella ivlwlly immersed.
There is a fulcrum and a parallel lamella.
Principal plica short dorsal and lateral visible in the mouth.
Upper palatal plica short joined in the middle to the long lunella which is straight above curved inward below.
A single sutural plica is developed with the trace of a second upper one.
Length 10 diam.
2.2 mm.
Length 9 diam.
2.3 mm.
Clausilium PI.
LVI figs.
72 73 parallelsided rounded at the apex deeply excised on the columellar side of the filament.
Okinoerabushima Osumi.
Types No.
87613 A. N. S. P. from No.
1253 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species resembles C. hirasei but differs in the decidedly stronger striation of the last whorl behind the lip the wider peristome immersed subcolumellar lamella the more convex whorls and the poorer development of sutural plicae.
It is nearly opaque.
As in C. hirasei the inferior lamella is interrupted within.
The palatal side of the filament is less dilated above than in C. hirasei.
The specimen figured has a thicker peristome than most of those sent.
The figure is too distinctly streaked.
Clausilia hyperoptyx Pilsbry.
PI.
LVI figs.
76 77 78 79.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1900 pp.
446 472 1901 pp.
423.
The statement in the original description that the upper palatal plica is very short was an error which the figure PI.
14 fig.
12 corrects.
The upper palatal plica is rather long united in the middle with the lunella.
The superior lamella is higher better developed than in C. hirasei and C. kikaiensis.
The tapering spire is distinctly attenuated above but the apex is larger than in the related species  and the striation is better developed than in C. hirasei or C. kikaiensis.
It is known only from Great Ryukyu Island Okinawa the specimens reported from Yaeyama prove to be specifically different.
Length 9 to 10 diam.
2 mm.
The clausilimn PI.
LVI figs.
76 77 is rather wide rounded distally.
It is wider than that of hirasei kikaiensis or sarissa.
Clausilia hyperoptyx yoronjimana n. subsp.
The superior and spiral lamellse are more or less completely disconnected and the lunella joins the middle of the short upper palatal plica as in C. hyperoptyx but the shell is perceptibly wider and the last whorl is decidedly less striate.
It is also paler and somewhat more transparent.
Length 10 to 10.5 diam.
2.4 mm.
Yoronjima Osumi.
Types No.
88767 A. N. S. P. from No.
1253a of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Clausilia yaeyamensis n. sp.
PI.
LVI figs.
80 81 82 83 84.
Shell cylindric below regularly tapering from the penultimate whorl to the apex dark chestnut paler near the apex.
Surface glossy evenly finely and sharply striate the back of the last whorl a little more irregularly so.
Whorls 8 the earlier ones quite convex the later much less so.
Aperture piriform the peristome expanded whitish.
Superior lamella rather high compressed weakly continuous with the spiral lamella which penetrates nearly to the middle of the ventral side.
Inferior lamella deeply receding nearly straight and obliquely ascending within shorter than the spiral lamella.
Subcolumellar lamella emerging.
A parallel lamella and fulcrum present.
Principal plica about onehalf a whorl long dorsal and lateral visible in the aperture.
Upper palatal plica very short connected with the straight lunella which bends inward at its lower end.
There are two sutural plicae.
Length 11 diam.
2.3 mm.
Length 10.5 diam.
2.3 mm.
Clausilium PI.
LVI figs.
80 81 82 wider above than below obtusely rounded distally abruptly excised at the filament.
Yaeyama Ryukyu.
Types No.
80963 and 87561 A. N. S. P. from No.
4576 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species is related to C. hyperoptyx from which it differs in the even striation and very short upper palatal plica and the weakly continuous superior and spiral lamellae.
The clausilium closely resembles that of C. hyperoptyx.
I reported this species under the name hyperoptyx in these Proceedings for 1901 p. 651 not having at that time opened the specimens.
C. hyperoptyx has not been found on Yaeyama and probably does not occur in the southwestern group of islands.
Section METAZAPTYX nov.
Similar to Zaptyx except tht the inferior lamella ascends spirally within and in the mouth is visible as a fold approaching the superior lamella the base of the shell is somewhat sacklike.
The clausilium is broad strongly curved distally shorter than thatjof Zaptyx and rounded at the apex.
The few species now known of this group are scattered over a wide expanse  C. hachijoensis Pils.
Hachijojima Izu group.
C. doBmonorum Pils.
Kikaigashima Oshima group.
C. doemonorum viva Pils.
Tokunoshima Oshima group.
C. pattalus Pils.
Taramajima Oshima group.
C. pattalus miyakaensis Pils.
Miyakajima Oshima group.
Clausilia pattalus n. sp.
PI.
LVII figs.
93 94 95 96 97.
Shell cylindric below tapering from the penultimate whorl in a long somewhat attenuate spire brown becoming whitish at the apex.
Surface glossy finely and rather weakly striate becoming finely and sharply striate on the last third of the last whorl.
Whorls S to 9 convex the second disproportionately long the last compressed laterally very convex beneath.
Aperture irregularly ovate the peristome whitish refiexed somewhat thickened within.
Superior lamella small marginal continuous with the low spiral lamella which penetrates to a point above the columellar lip.
Inferior lamella deeply receding scarcely visible in a front view but seen in an oblique view as a small fold approaching the superior lamella within it ascends spirally and penetrates as far as the spiral lamella.
The subcolumellar lamella is immersed.
Fulcrum and parallel lamella are developed.
Principal plica about onethird of a whorl long.
Upper palatal plica rather long connected in the middle with the lunella which curves inward below.
There are two sutural plicae the upper one weak or indistinct.
Length 11.2 diam.
2.5 mm.
 whorls 9.
Length 10 diam.
2.3 mm.
 whorls 8.
Clausilium PL LVII figs.
93 94 95 rather short parallelsided the distal end very strongly curved  the apex is blunt tapering a little on both sides.
It is somewhat thickened along the palatal side and is very abruptly and deeply excised near the filament.
Taramajima one of the Mij'ako subgroup of the Southwestern group.
Types No.
87639 A. N S. P. from No.
1301a of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species is stronger than C. dcBmonorum viva from which it differs in the immersed subcolumellar lamella the less dilated more immersed inferior lamella and the better development of the peristome and internal lamellae.
There are also differences in the shape of the claasilium.
C. pattalus miyakoensis n. subsp.
Shell thinner paler and often smaller than C. pattalus with the superior lamella smaller.
All of the lamellae and plicae are weaker.
Length 10.3 diam.
2.3 mm.
 whorls 9.
Length 9 diam.
2 mm.
 whorls 8.
Miyakojima.
Types No.
87638 A. N. S. P. from No.
1301 of Mr. Hu'ase's collection.
As the differences between these specimens and those from Taramajima though slight are constant I have thought it best to signalize them by a name.
Claasilia dsemonorum Pila.
PI.
LVII.
figs.
98 99.
Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1902 p. 381.
Having onlyj fossil specimens without the clausilium I described this species originally as a Stereophcedusa.
Recent discoveries by Mr. Hirase have now made it clear that there exists a group of species closely related to Zaptyx in which the inferior lamella is spiral within.
The types of C. dcemonorum show now that they are more perfectly cleaned two sutural plicce which I did not see when originally describing the species.
C. dcemonorum differs from C. kikaiensis in the more swollen sacklike base larger superior lamella and the less immersed spirally ascending inferior lamella.
The species is apparently extinct in the type locality Kikaigashima a small low island which has been pretty thoroughly examined for land shells but a closely related living form has been sent from Tokunoshima.
The figures are drawn to a smaller scale than the others on the same plate.
C. dsemonorum viva n. subsp.
PI.
LVII figs.
89 90 91 92.
Shell cylindric below tapering from the penultimate whorl to the apex pale yellow or brownishyellow more or less transparent thin.
Surface glossy with low wrinkles of growth and behind the lip some stronger striae.
Whorls 8 those of the spire quite convex the last two somewhat flattened last whorl compressed laterally very convex mid sacklike below.
Aperture trapezoidalovate the sinulus a little retracted lip thin expanded and narrowly reflexed white.
Superior lamella marginal small vertical and compressed continuous with the spiral lamella which is low and delicate.
Inferior lamella receding forming a high compressed fold and approaching the superior lamella in the throat within the back of the last whorl it is dilated and ascends in a broadly spiral curve.
It is short within and does not run parallel to the spiral lamella.
The subcolumellar lamella emerges.
The fulcrum and parallel lamella are very small.
The principal plica is about onethird of a whorl long.
The upper palatal plica is very short and connected with the very oblique and curved lunella.
There are two weak sutural plicae.
Length 9.8 diam.
2.2 mm.
Length 9.5 diam.
2 mm.
The clausilium PI.
LVII figs.
90 91 is rather short wider below than above and strongly curved near the rounded apex it is abruptly and deeply excised near the filament as usual.
Bomayama Tokunoshima Osumi.
Types No.
87588 A. N. S. P. from No.
1201 of Mr. Hirasc's collection.
This little Clausilia has much in common with the fossil C. dcemonorum of Kikaigashima but it is somewhat less specialized in having the superior and spiral lamellae continuous.
The upper of the two sutural plicae is very weak and in some specimens hardly perceptible.
In one opened I saw a very weak lamella inserta.
Section PARAZAPTYX nov.
The shell is similar to Zaptyx except that the inferior and subcolumcllar lamellae ascend spirally as in Metazaptyx fulcrum and parallel lamella and sutural plicae are absent.
The clausilium is wide tapers strongly to the apex and is strengthened by a transverse lamellar rib on the convex side.
The extraordinary clausilium of this group finds no parallel in Asiatic Clausiliidce.
Parazaptyx is another of the highly specialized phyla of the Riukiu Islands which give evidence of the ancient origin of these insular faunas.
In its spirally ascending lamellae and wide clausilium this Section resembles Metazaptyx but it is like Hemizaptyx in lacking accessory plicae and the clausilium is unique.
Clausilia thaumatopoma n. sp.
PI.
LVII figs.
100 101 102 103 104.
Shell cylindric below the upper half tapering and a little attenuated near the apex brown the apex pale.
Whorls 9 convex the first two smooth the second whorl disproportionately wide third and subsequent whorls closely finely and sharply striate shining the striation coarser behind the lip.
The aperture is trapezoidalovate retracted at the sinulus not projecting brown inside  the peristome is paleedged very narrowly reflexed obtuse but hardly thickened.
The superior lamella is subvertical marginal rather high and continuous with the low spiral lamella which penetrates to the middle of the ventral side.
The inferior lamella recedes very deeply and is not visible in a front view though seen obliquely from the base it appears as a rather high thin lamella.
Within it ascends in a widely spiral curve.
The subcolumellar lamella emerges to the lipedge and ascends in a sigmoid curve.
The principal plica is about a half whorl long dorsal and lateral.
The upcr palatal plica is veiy oblicjue and weakly joined to the lunella which is oblique straight above arcuate curving inward below.
Length 10.5 diam.
2.5 mm.
Clausilium PI.
LVII figs.
100 101 104 short and wide well curved at the distal end tapering to a blunt apex somewhat excavated on the palatal side.
It is deeply excised on the columellar side of the filament.
On the outer convex surface there is a transverse plate extending from side to side.
Kumejima Ryukyu.
Types No.
87631 A. N. S. P. from No.
1293 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Externally this species is much like the striate species of Zaptyx but the sigmoid lamellse and unique clausilium distinguish it.
Section OLIGOZAPTK nov.
The shell is very small fusiform with no superior lamella.
The inferior lamella forms a squarish fold in the throat and the subcolumellar lamella is obsolete below.
There is a long lower palatal plica and short upper united with the lunella.
Sutural plicae and a lamella fulcrans are developed.
The clausilium is notched on the palatal side of the projecting apex and excised on the columellar side of the filament.
Type C. hedleyi.
In this extraordinary phylum the clausilium resembles that of Diceratoptyx while the palatal armature is totally unlike any other known Zaptychoid form by the development of a large lower palatal plica.
The whole closing apparatus is of a highly evolved type.
Clausilia hedleyi n. sp.
PI.
LVII figs.
105110.
Shell very small jusiform attenuated above ambercolored transparent almost smooth with a brilliant gloss the last whorl slightly striate behind the lip.
Whorls 7 convex the last narrow and tapering downward.
Aperture projecting free in front piriform the white lip narrowly reflexed.
Superior lamella obsolete represented merely by a slight thickening of the peristome.
Spiral lamella small low and short lateral.
Inferior lamella receding forming a strongly projecting squarish and bifid fold in the throat low within.
Subcolumellar lamella wholly immersed subobsolete.
Principal plica long extending from a ventral position nearly to the aperture.
Lunella lateral united to the middle of a long curved lower palatal plica and with its upper end continued inward in a shorter upper palatal plica much as in C. platydera and its allies.
There are two minute sutural plicae and a short lamella julcrans.
Length 7.8 diam.
1.7 mm.
Clausilium PI.
LVII figs.
105 106 107 108 rather short parallelsided abruptly bent at the apex and twisted into a sort of spout notched on the palatal side of the projecting apex.
Tokunoshima Osumi at Matsubara.
Types No.
87589 A. N. S. P. from No.
1202 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This is one of the smallest as well as one of the most specialized of Asiatic Clausilise.
It is named in honor of my friend Charles Hedley.
The clausilium is both abruptly curved and twisted near the apex so that its true shape is not easily conveyed by figures.
The apical end however is well shown by figs.
105 and 108 while it is seen much foreshortened in figs.
106 and 107.
Section DICERATOPTYX nox.
The glossy shell is Zaptychoid the superior lamella developed inferior lamella receding calloused below.
Subcolumcllar lamella rising high on the palatal wall dilated in a lateral position.
Upper palatal plica very long an extremely short lunella descending from near its inner end.
Lamella fulcrans and parallela and sutural plicae are developed.
Clausilium deeply excised as usual at the filament and with a deep notch excavated near the apex on the palatal side.
The very long upper palatal plica and diminutive lunella and the peculiar clausilium are characteristic.
The dilated subcolumellar lamella which rises high on the palatal wall takes the place of a lower palatal plica.
The clausilium resembles that of Oligozaptyx but the notch near the distal end has been independently evolved in the two groups  that of Diceratoptyx being adapted to fit over the dilated subcolumellar lamella whUe in Oligozaptyx the notch fits over the lower palatal plica and has been evolved with the evolution of the latter.
The internal structure is partially shown in PL LVII fig.
113  fulcrum p parallel lamella sp spiral lamella inf inferior lamella sc subcolumellar lamella.
The characteristic dilation of the latter iswell shown as well as its course upon the palatal wall of the shell through which it is seen by transparence.
Clausilia cladoptyx n. sp.
PI.
LVII figs.
111115.
Shell cylindric below the upper half regularly tapering amber or brownishamber colored almost entirely smooth with a varnishlike gloss.
Whorls 9 quite convex.
Aperture ovate peristome reflexed slightly thickened.
Superior lamella small vertical marginal contiguous to or continuous with the spiral lamella which penetrates nearly to the ventral side.
Inferior lamella more or less receding forming a very strong fold in the throat ascending in a very broad sigmoid plate abruptly diminishing to a small thread above which revolves parallel to the spiral lamella but does not penetrate so deeply.
Subcolumellar lamella emerging to the lipedge  inside it dilates rising in an angle in a lateral position.
Outside of the spiral lamella there are two short equal parallel lamellae lamella fulcrans and I. parallela.
The principal plica is dorsal and lateral visible in the throat and nearly a half whorl long below it there is a very long upper palatal plica which at its inner end gives out a very short oblique branch downward the lunella.
Below this there is a short palatal plica at least in some specimens.
Above the principal plica there are two sutural plicse the lower one well developed the upper small.
Length 10 diam.
2.2 mm.
Length 9 diam.
2 mm.
The clausilium PI.
LVII figs.
Ill 112 is short and wide parallelsided  there is a deep semicircular notch near the apex on the palatal side and a deep excision on the columellar side of the filament.
A marginal rib runs along the columellar side from the excision to the notch.
Tokunoshima at Teteyama near Sanmura.
Types No.
87592 A. N. S. P. from No.
1204a of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Specimens from Sanmura Tokunoshima differ from typical C. cladoptyx in the smaller size length 9 diam.
2 mm.
to length 7.5 diam.
1.8 mm.
The plicse are visible from the outside through the shell as in Oligozaptyx.
EuPHiEDUSOID PHYLUM.
Section EUPH.EDUSA Bttg.
Clausilia tryoni var.
miyakejimana subsp.
nov.
This race differs from C. tryoni in having two or three small short palatal plicae below the upper one.
The striation of the last whorl is also denser and finer.
Miyakejima Izu.
Types No.
86464 A. N. S. P. from No.
1068 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
83s proceedings of the academy of dec Explanation of Plates LIILVII.
Plate LII Figs.
1 2 3.
 Clausilia ophidoon Pils.
 Figs.
4 5.
 Clausilia tokunoshimana Pils.
.
 Figs.
6 7.
 Clausilia azumai Pils.
Fig.
8.
 Clausilia azumai idiopylis Pils.
Figs.
9 10 11.
 Clausilia nakadai Pils.
Fig.
12.
 Clausilia nakadai degenerata Pils.
Figs.
13 14.
 Clausilia okinoerahuensis Pils.
Plate LIII Figs.
15 16.
 Clausilia ophidoon Pils.
Clausilium.
Figs.
17.
 Clausilia azumai idiopylis Pils.
Clausilium.
Figs.
18 19.
 Clausilia nakadai Pils.
Clausilium.
Figs.
20 21.
 Clausilia tokunoshimana Pils.
Clausilium.
Fig.
22.
 Clausilia nakadai degenerata Pils.
Clausilium.
Figs.
23 24.
 Clausilia okinoerahuensis Pils.
Clausilium.
Plate LIV Figs.
25 2G 27 28.
 Clausilia nagashimana Pils.
Figs.
29 30 31 32 33. Caw.sz7m cymatodes Fis.
Figs.
34 35 36 37.
 Clausilia subhickonis Pils.
Fig.
38.
 Clausilia subhickonis variety.
Fig.
39.
 Clausilia mikawa Pils. palatal aspect.
Figs.
40 41 .Clausilia mikawa Pils. type.
Plate LV Figs.
42 43 44.
 Clausilia asperata Pils.
Figs.
45 46.
 Clausilia ikiensis Pils.
Figs.
47 48 49.
 Clausilia purissima Pils.
Fisg.
50 51.
 Clausilia ikiensis Pils.
Clausilium.
Fig.
52.
 Clausilia aurantiaca sakui Pils.
Figs.
53 54 55 56 57.
 Clausilia koshikijimana Pils.
Figs.
58 59 GO. Clausilia ventriluna Pils.
Figs.
61 62 63.
 Clausilia hosayaka Pils.
Plate LVI Figs.
64 65 66 67 .Clausilia hirasei Pils.
Figs.
68 69 70 71.
 Clausilia kikaiensis Pils.
Figs.
72 73 74 75.
 Clausilia sarissa Pils.
Figs.
76 77 78 79.
 Clausilia hyperoptyx Pils.
Figs.
80 81 82 83 Si. Clausilia yaeyamensis Pils.
Figs.
85 86 87 88.
 Clausilia hyperaptyx Pils.
Plate LVII Figs.
89 90 91 92.
 Clausilia damonorum viva Pils.
Figs.
93 94 95 96 97 .Clausilia pattalus Pils.
Figs.
98 99.
 Clausilia doimonorum Pils.
These figures are drawn to a smaller scale than the others on the plate.
Figs.
100 101 102 103 IQA. Clausilia thaumatopoma Pils.
Figs.
105 106 107 108 109 llO .Clausilia hedleyi Pils.
Figs.
Ill 112 113 114 115. Clausilia dado ptyx Pils The following reports were ordered to be printed  REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY.
Sixteen meetings have been held during the year on the first and third Tuesdays from October to May inclusive with an average attendance of thirtysix.
Verbal communications were made by Iessrs.
A. E. Brown Sharp Keeley Calvert Chapman Pilsbry Fowler Stone Borden Goodspeed Phillips Conklin Nelson Willcox S. Brown Moore Wetherill Miss Wardle and Iiss Keller.
Fiftytwo papers were presented for publication as follows  James A. G. Rehn 7 Henry W. Fowler 4 Henry A. Pilsbry 4 J. Percy Moore 4 Thomas H. Montgomery Jr. 2 T. D. A. Cockerell 2 Henry C. Chapman 2 J.
A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard 1 Nathan Banks 1 N. M. Stevens 1 Addison Guhck 1 Harold Heath 1 Thomas L. Casey 1  James A. Nelson 1  Harry C. Oberholzer 1  A. E. Brown 1  John H. Harshbergcr 1  Benjamin Sharp and H. W. Fowler 1  M. F. Thompson 1 William F. Allen 1 David H. Tennant 1 Sarah P. Monks 1  Witmer Stone 1  Witmer Stone and A. S. Bunnell 1  H. A Pilsbry and E. anatta 1  H. A. Pilsbry and Y. Hirase 1  R. W. Shufeldt 1 Mary H. Greenwalt 1 Adele M. Fielde 1 Adele M. Fielde and G. H. Parker 1  Everett F. Phillips 1  R. V. Chamberlin 1  Charles W. Johnson 1 Albert M. Reese 1.
One of these.
Fowler's Fishes of Sumatra forms the concluding number of Volume XII of the Journal six were returned to the authors two were transferred to the Entomological Section one is held under consideration four have been accepted for publication in the volume for 1905 and the others constitute the current volume of the Proceedings.
A paper by Edward G. Conklin Ph.D. entitled The Organization and CellLineage of the Ascidian Egg to form the first number of the Journal A'olume XIII is going through the press and will be ready for publication as soon as five of the plates in color now being preparetl in Germany are received.
Eight hundred and ninetyfive pages of the Proceedings and 59 plates 70 pages and 22 plates of the Journal 352 pages and 20 plates of the Entomological Neivs 299 pages and 20 plates of the Transactions of the American Entomological Society Entomological Section of the Academy and 353 pages illustrated by 60 plates of the Manual of Conchology have been published.
The issues of the Proceedings and Journal have been distributed as follows  Proceedings delivered to members 498  exchanged 560  to subscribers 40 1098 Journal exchanged 72  to subscribers 34 106 The decrease in the number of copies of the Proceedings sent out is due to a careful revision of the Exchange List those societies being dropped after due notification from whom it is unlikely that a return will be received.
Sixteen members and two correspondents have been elected.
The deaths of sixteen members and four correspondents have been announced.
The following have resigned their membership William J. Scott Norris J. Scott H. B.
Gross O. S. Paxson William D. Joyce William R. Reineck C. M. Thomas and H. H. Furness.
In consequence of a decrease in the membership of the Conchological Section it ceased to exist in March and the publication of the Manual of Conchology the property of the Section since the death of the first editor Mr. George W. Tryon Jr. has been assumed by the Academy.
The work will be continued under the direction of Henry A. Pilsbry Sc.D.
Mr. S. Raymond Roberts formerly Treasurer of the Conchological Section has kindly consented to retain the financial administration of the Manual and has reported on the receipts and expenditures since the dissolution of the Section.
Dr. Charles B. Penrose was elected a member of the Council to fill the vacancy caused by the absence of Mr. Charles H. Cramp.
The resignation of Mr. Harold Wingate from the Committee on Accounts becavise of removal from the city was accepted.
The meetings of a number of related societies continue to be held in the rooms of the Academy.
I desire to acknowledge my obligation to Mr. William J.
Fox for most efficient assistance in the preparation and distribution of tlic publications and in other matters connected with my office.
Edward J. Nolan Recording Secretory.
REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY.
During the past year as usual the bulk of the correspondence with scientific societies and institutions was concerned with the exchange of periodical publications the number of which acknowledged shows a material increase.
Several proposals to exchange publications were referred to the Publication Committee and requests for the loan of collections or offers of specimens to the Curators.
The year has been noteworthy for the number of deaths of prominent scientific men and for the importance of its international congresses of learning.
Formal notices of no fewer than eight deaths of Presidents of societies and Directors of museums were received and duly acknowledged in letters of condolence.
Invitations to the Academy to participate were received from the Organizing Committees of four international congresses but in each case beyond an expression of interest no formal action was taken by the Academy and no delegates were appointed.
The deaths of four distinguished correspondents  Karl A. Zittel Henry M. Stanley R. A. Phillippi and Eduard von Martens  occurred during the year and were announced from the Chair.
In the election of Profs.
A.
A. W. Hubrecht of Utrecht and Frantisek Vejdovsky of Prag the high standard of scientific attainment now required by the Academy as a condition of corresponding membership is maintained.
Fourteen correspondents have contributed their photographs accompanied in most cases by biographical sketches.
Following are the statistics of the year's correspondence Communications Received.
Acknowledging the Academy's publications 197 Transmitting publications 71 Requesting exchanges and the supply of deficiencies 7 Invitations and notices 6 Announcements of deaths of scientific men 8 Circulars concerning the administration of scientific institutions etc. .
.
11 Photographs and biographies of Correspondents 14 Letters from Correspondents 13 Miscellaneous letters 35 Total received 362 Communications Forwarded.
Acknowledging gifts to the Library 877 Acknowledging gifts to the Museum 77 54 Acknowledging photographs 14 Requesting the supply of deficiencies 50 Correspondents' diplomas and notices of election 3 Letters of sympathy and congratulation 10 Letters to Correspondents 23 Miscellaneous letters 36 Copies of Annual Reports 262 Total forwarded 1352 Respectfully submitted J. Percy Moore Corresponding Secretary.
REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN.
Six thousand three hundred and ninetytwo additions were made to the Library during the past year.
Of these 5078 were pamphlets and parts of periodicals 1066 were volumes.
There were in addition 181 photographs drawings etc. and 67 maps.
They were derived from the following sources Societies Museums etc 2261 I. V. Williamson Fund 1890 Editors 684 General Fund 372 Authors 176 Mrs. M. T. S. Schaeffer 169 United States Department of Agriculture 102 J.
A. Meigs Fund 94 Manuel E. Griffith 76 Wilson Fund 66 United States Department of Interior 65 Daniel D. Berolzheimer 51 Comite Gologique Russe 27 Imperial Geological Survey of Japan 24 Horatio C. Wood M.D 20 University of Chicago 17 Paul Hagemans 14 Thomas Biddle M.D 14 Trustees of British Museum 14 G eological Survey of Canada 14 Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture 13 Ministere des Travaux Publics France 13 Clarence B. Moore 12 Sveriges Geologiska Undersokning 11 National Committee of Audubon Societies 11 Ministerio de Fomento Peru 10 Geological Survey of India 10 H. A. Pilsbry 10 William J.
Fox 9 United States Department of State 8 Department of Agriculture Cape of Good Hope 7 Secretario de Estado Mexico 7 Government of India 7 Department of Mines Victoria.... 6 Pennsylvania State Librarjr 6 Estate of James G. Meigs 6 H. C. Chapman M.D 5 Albert I of Monaco 5 Department of the Interior Canada 5 Library of Congress 4 1904.1 843 United States Department of Commerce and Labor 4 United States Treasury Department 4 Conchological Section Academy.. 4 Department of Mines New South Wales 4 United States War Department.. 3 Botanical Survey of India 3 Instituto Geologico de Mexico 3 Wisconsin Geological and Natural History Survey 3 Kommission zur Wissenschaftlichen Untersuchungen der Deutsclien Meere in Kiel 3 Edward Potts 3 United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries 2 Alfred Sharpless 2 Trustees Bernice Pauahi Bishop Museum 2 Royal Society 2 Vlaamsch Natuuren GenesskundigCongres 2 Geological Survey of New Jersey.. 2 Monsieur le Due de Loubat 2 Danish Government 2 Department of Geology and Natural History Indiana 2 Bureau of Geology and Mines Missouri 2 United States Coast and Geodetic Survey Bureau of American Ethnology.. J.
A. G. Rehn Botanical Garden Kew Howard Crawley S. Raymond Roberts P. P. Calvert Ph.D Department of Public Gardens etc. Jamaica Martin I. J. Grifhn Museo Nacional de Mexico Dr. H. Burgin F. J. Keeley Philippine Government Board in the United States Norske Gradmalingskommission.. Geological Survey of Alabama Free Public Museum Liverpool.. R. Accademia Petrarca di Arezzo Miss A. R. Murphy Home Secretary's Office Queensland Council of the Fridtjof Nansen Fund for the Advancement of Science Surveyor General's Department Natal Philippine Weather Bureau Iowa Geological Survey They have been assigned to the following departments of the Library  Geography 36 Bibliography 27 Mineralogy 17 Helminthology 17 Journals 4738 Botany 466 Geology 330 General Natural History 134 Ornithology 83 Ichthyology 76 Voyages and Travels 71 Entomology 70 Agriculture 67 Anatomy and Physiology 52 Conchology 47 Mammalogy 46 Anthropology 43 Physical Science.. Herpetology Chemistry Medicine Encylcopedias Philology Mathematics Unclassified 12 9 6 4 4 3 2 22 Shelflists of the special departments of the Library were compiled in 1885 1886 and 1887.
A careful comparison of the books on the shelves with these lists leaves nineteen works unaccounted for.
With the exception of two volumes of bound pamphlets and four of somewhat antiquarian interest they are recent works of small pecimiary value which can readily be replaced.
That a like account of stock may be taken of the journals and periodicals it will be necessary that a similar shelflist be made of this department.
This will be a work of some maonitude and of undoubted importance.
It is hoped that it may be accomplished next Aear.
Ten hundred and twentysix volumes have been bound and 72 maps trimmed backed with linen and added to the collection.
A collection of twentysix catalogues announcements etc. issued by the University of Athens were transferred to the library of the University of Pennsylvania 3 volumes and 13 pamphlets on theology to the Seminary of St. Charles Borromeo 19 volumes and 175 pamphlets on miscellaneous literature to the Free Lilrary of Philadelphia.
An accumulation of 103 State documents in no way related to the Academy's work were returned to Harrisburg.
A set of fine mahogany cases formerly containing the library of the late Dr. Charles Schaeffer has been presented to the Academy by Mrs. Schaeffer.
They have been placed in the Council room replacing those received in 1895 with the Meigs librar and great
improve the appearance of the apartment.
As heretofore I am glad to acknowledge the intelligent service of my assistant Mr. William J.
Fox in all departments of the library work.
Edward J. Nolan Librarian.
REPORT OF THE CURATORS.
The collections in the care of the Curators are in an excellent state of preservation with all the data carefully recorded.
During the past year important progress has been made in the details of arrangement and identification.
Additions and alterations to the heating ilant have permitted the heating of the Museum.
Many needed repairs have been made to the roof and other parts of the building.
Additional windowshades have been placed in the Museiun and in the alcoholic department to protect the specimens from the light.
The Council room has been completely renovated and handsomely furnished with mahogany book cases the gift of VIrs.
Charles Schaeffcr who has hkewise presented a lantern and screen.
The grounds adjoining the Museum have been sown with grass and carefully tended during the year greatly improving their appearance.
In the Museum the installation of plate glass and mahogany cases has continued 3500 cubic feet of exhibition space having been provided during the year for mammals birds and invertebrates.
An oak wallcase has been placed in the Archaeological department and the woodwork of most of the old cases has been refinished.
Numerous storage cases for birds mammals insects plants and mollusks have been purchased.
Through the liberality of Mr. Clarence B. Moore Messrs. Stewardson Brown and H. W. Fowler were sent on a sixweeks' trip to the southwestern Florida keys in search of specimens of Ligiius to supplement a valuable series collected and presented by Mr. Moore from the eastern and western coasts and adjacent keys.
Though unsuccessful in its immediate object the expedition obtained valuable collections of fishes plants etc.
Later Mr. Moore sent out a second expedition securing a series of the desired mollusks.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry spent two months in Cuba investigating the molluscan fauna in the interests of the Academy and Mr. J.
A. G. Rehn was engaged for one month in collecting insects and birds in southern Georgia.
Mr. Clarence B. Moore has added a number of valuable specimens to his collection of Indian antiquities from Florida.
Among other notable gifts of the year may be mentioned a large series of Indian implements plants birds and minerals the collection of the late Dr. Charles Schaeffer presented by Mrs. Schaeffer a collection of ethnological material from Lieut.
Frederick Schober and numerous valuable specimens of mammals birds and reptiles from the Zoological Society of Philadelphia.
Several important collections have also been secured by purchase.
Besides the work detailed in the appended reports of the Sections Mr. Fowler has continued the arrangement and identification of the fishes and made numerous local collections.
Dr. Moore has cared for and added to the helminthological collection.
Dr. Pilsbry and Mr. Vanatta have made important advances in the identification and arrangement of the mollusca.
The report of the Special Curator of this dejiartment is added.
Mr. Rehn has cleaned the greater part of the small mammal skulls belonging to the Rhoads and Bunnell collections upward of 3000 being thus added to the study series.
Mr. Stone with the assistance of the Jessup students has rearranged the entire series of reptiles and batrachians reUeving their overcrowded condition and has labelled and tagged with metal numbers the entire series of Garter Snakes as well as all recent accessions.
Twelve thousand metal tags have been prepared and the work of tagging the whole collection will be pushed as rapidly as possible.
Miss H. N. Wardle has been constantly engaged in labelling cataloguing and arranging the archaeological collections rendering them much more instructive to the student and visitor.
The preparator Mr. McCadden has mounted a number of mammals notably an African Buffalo and has prepared many specimens for the study collections.
Besides the services rendered by the Museiun staff and the students of the Jessup Fund the Curators are indebted to Dr. Philip P. Calvert Mr. Erich Daecke Mr. H. W. Wenzel Mr. H. L.Viercck and Mr. E. T. Cresson Jr. for assistance in the Entomological department.
The AntiTuberculosis Society Philadelphia Botanical Club Nomenclature Committee Botanical Club A.
A.
A. S. Mycological Club Delaware Valley Ornithological Club Pennsylvania Audubon Society and Delaware Valley Naturalists' Union have held meetings in the Academy building during the year.
The collections have been extensively studied by visiting specialists while material has been loaned to the following Robert Ridgway H. C. Oberholser G. S. Miller Jr. E. B. Williamson O. P. Hay C. F. Sands T. H. Montgomery Jr. E. S. Steele W. B. Scott Florence Bascom W. E. Meehan James H. Lambert J. F. Holt C. V. Piper E. L. Morris W. B. Clarke Paul Bartsch J. W. Harshberger Lawrence Bruner H. W. Fowler J.
A. Allen and A. E. Ortman.
Samuel G. Dixon Curator.
Report of the Special Curator of the Department of Mollusca The accessions to the collection of mollusks during 1904 have exceeded in number those of any year since the reception of the A. D. Brown collection in 1S87.
Specimens have been received from 78 sources the most valuable or extensive being the following A series of 330 lots of shells from the keys and adjacent mainland of Florida from Mr. Clarence B. Moore part collected by his own party part by others sent by him to collect mollusks.
This is by far the most extensive series of mollusks ever obtained on the Florida keys.
The specimens have been determined and studied and it is hoped that the results suitably illustrated will be published during the coming year.
A series of Japanese mollusks some 650 lots received from Mr. Y. Hirase of Kyoto has also been studied but only the new forms have been publislied comprising about 140 new species and about 30 new subspecies.
Mr. J. H. Ferriss has generously divided his valuable Arizona collections with us.
The study of this material with that collected by Mr. FerrLss and the Special Curator in 1903 is nearly complete.
An unexpectedly large number of new and interesting forms were found.
Early in the year an attempt was made to increase our collection of freshwater bivalves of the genus Pisidium.
Some 70 lots were obtained from various correspondents 10 of them cotypes and a large number of them topotypes.
With the specimens already in our possession these additions probably make our collection the most complete in existence.
A series of the mollusks of the Alabama river system collected this year by Mr. H. H. Smith has been purchased.
It consists of about 17000 specimens.
These remain to be determined and installed.
During the spring the Special Curator explored a portion of central Cuba for mollusks obtaining a collection of some 500 lots about 10000 specimens.
This collection also remains to be studied.
The chief work in the Museum has been the revision of the African Achatinidce.
Much other work of correction and relabelling has been done in connection with studies on new material.
Four papers have been published in the Proceedings of ithe Academy by the Special Curator one with Mr. Vanatta and one in conjunction with Mr. Hirase while ten have been published by the Special Curator in the Nautilus.
These have chiefly dealt with the classification and description of new material.
The time of the Special Curator has been largely occupied as hitherto in the publication of the Manual of Conchology.
The volume for this year treats of the African family Achatinidce.
The efficient assistance of Mr. E. G. Vanatta in the work of the department throughout the year should be acknowledged H. A. PiLSBRY Special Curator of the Department of Mollusca.
REPORTS OF THE SECTIONS.
MiNERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL SECTION.
The Section has this 3ear kept up its meetings and field excursions even more zealously than last year with about double the number of communications onethird larger attendance on the meetings onehalf more on the excursions and an increase of more than onequarter in membership.
There have been nine meetings with an average attendance of over 11.
Communications were made by Miss Emma Walter on old streambeds by B. S. Lyman on the immense time indicated by erosion by Prof. B. L. Miller on graphite occurring in Chester County Pa. by B. S. Lyman on the Bechtel graphite mine near Boyerstown Berks County Pennsylvania by Miss Mary S. Holmes on the A'irginia Natural Bridge by B. S. Lyman on topography an aid to geology by Miss Emma Walter on clay near Saylorsburg Monroe County Pennsylvania by IMr.
F. J. Keeley on the trap of Cape Ann Massachusetts by Miss Iary S. Holmes on some problems suggested by the excursion along the Perkiomen by Ir.
T. Chalkley Palmer on serpentines of Delaware County Pennsylvania by Mr. F. J. Keeley on serpentines under the microscope and about 20 shorter communications besides various discussions.
There were 7 field excursions with an average attendance of 43.
The excursions visited 1.
The crystalline rocks and their minerals particularly kaolin between Hockessin Delaware and Kennett Square Chester County Pennsylvania 2.
The crystalline rocks near Glen Mills and Lenni on Chester Creek and at Mineral Hill Delaware County Pennsylvania 3.
The crystalline rocks near Avondale StrathHaven Rose Valley and Icdia Delaware County Pennsylvania 4.
Portions of the New Red Perkasie shales and Pottstown shales and trap from Lodel Creek to Spring jNIountain near the Perkiomen and Schwenksville lontgomery County Pennsylvania 5.
Portions of the New Red Norristown shales and Gwynedd shales and some of the gneiss southward between Noble Station and Doylestown 6.
The crystalline rocks near Newtown Square Delaware County Pennsylvania 7.
The crystalline rocks between Newtown Square and Media Delaware County Pennsylvania.
The membership of the Section has increased by ten in all namely seven contributors and three members of the Academy one of whom became a member through his interest in the Section.
The Section now contains 27 members of the Academy and 21 contributors or 48 in all.
The following officers of the Section have been elected for the year 1905 Director Benjamin Smith Lyman.
ViceDirector George Vaux Jr.
Recorder and Secretary .
.
.
Miss Mary S. Holmes.
Treasurer .
.
... .
Miss Emma Walter.
Conservator Frank J. Keeley.
Respectfully submitted by order of the Section Ben J. Smith Lyman Director.
The Biological and Microscopical Section.
The numerical strength of the Section is the same as that of last year two members hadng withdrawn and two having been admitted.
The interest in the regular sessions has been increased by the discussions at the informal meetings which have formed a pleasant feature of the year's work.
Numerous communications have been made among which may be especially mentioned those of Mr. F. J. Keeley.
on various accessories of microscopic manipulation by Mr. T. C. Palmer on Trachelomonas by Dr. D. E. Owen on dredgings in Saco Bay and by Mr. Hugo Bilgram on Myxomycetes.
Every member present has made an effort to offer at each meeting some object or subject which if not new has at least stimulated the work of others.
A special topic which has occupied the attention of the Section is that of the microscopic structiu'e of rocks.
The Conservator reports that the instruments belonging to the Section are in good working order and the following additions have been made during the past year  One Zentmayer Portalle Histological Stand  one Dissecting Microscope one Beck Microscope Lamp one Acme Microscope Lamp one Balance two large Slide Cabinets with Drawers four small Slide Cabinets with Trays some miscellaneous accessories and over 500 mounted slides all presented by Mrs. Charles Shaeffer.
One hundred and fiftyeight slides prepared by L. Woolman were presented by Mr. F. J. Keele One Tolles Jinch Objective was purchased.
The officers elected for the following year are as follows  850 Dec Director .
ViceDirector .
Conservator Recorder Corresponding Secretary Treasurer J. Cheston Morris M.D.
T. Chalkley Palmer.
F. J. Keeley.
C. S. Boyer.
S. L. Schumo.
Thomas S. Stewart M.D.
Charles S. Boyer Recorder.
The Entomological Section.
Ten meetings were held with an average attendance of twelve persons.
The communications made were of scientific interest and have been published in the Entomological News and Proceedings of the Entomological Section.
This journal has been continued and Volume X' completed with 352 pages and 20 plates.
One hundred and five book or Schmitt boxes have been purchased and three of the new tin pestproof cases to hold them.
Rearrangements have been made of portions of the collections and new material added by gift purchase and exchange to the number of over 7000 specimens.
The collection of Orthoptera has been increased by the presentation of nearly 500 specimens the gift of Ir.
Morgan Hebard.
This order has also been emiched by the reception of over 700 specimens from Dr. Henri de Saussure containing many genera and species new to the collection.
Valuable additions have been made to the cabinets by purchase including 766 Orthoptera from Japan and the Loo Choo Islands 274 Orthoptera from the Philippines 1000 Hymenoptera from Mexico 342 Chilean Orthoptera and 2000 insects from Georgia collected for the Academy by Mr J.
A. G. Rehn.
Three associates have been elected and at the annual meeting held December 22 the following persons were elected officers to serve for 1905 Director ViceDirector Treasurer .
Recorder and Conservator Secretary .
Puhlication Committee Philip Ijaurent.
H. W. Wenzel.
E. T. Cresson.
Henry Skinner.
Frank Haimbach.
C. W. Johnson J. H. Ridings.
Henry Skinner Recorder.
1904.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
851 The Botanical Section.
During the year much progress has been made in the arrangement of the Herbarium the collections now being in better condition and more readily accessible than ever before.
The erection of new cases in the centre of the south herbarium room has resulted in the rearrangement of all the flowering plants thus relieving the congested condition of many of the cases.
The large case containing seeds etc. formerly in the south room has been moved to the north gallery room where it is readily accessible to any one desiring to study its contents.
Over 18000 sheets have been added to the collection during the year acquired principally by purchase and exchange although many liberal donations have been received.
These include the herbarium of the late Dr. Charles Schaeffer containing his collections for many seasons in the British Columbia region presented by Mrs. Mary S. Shaefferand the gift by Dr. Ida A. Keller of her entire herbarium including a number of plants from Europe.
Smaller collections were received from Mr. Charles S. Williamson from the eastern United States Mr. Benjamin H. Smith from south Florida the United States National Museum and Messrs. Witmer Stone E. G. Vanatta Dr. Campbell E. Waters Edward Potts Henry S. Conard and the Conservator.
These are noted in detail in the Additions to the Museum.
The Section has purchased a collection of 178 sheets of Washington plants from Mr. Henry S. Conard and 365 sheets of California plants from Mr. A.
A. Heller the collections of the past season containing many novelties.
The important collection made by Mr. Herbert H. Smith in the Santa Marta region of Colombia has been purchased by the Academy and numbers 2500 sheets also the West African collections of Dr. Pritzel numbering 1776 sheets and the herbarium of Alexander MacElwce acquired through purchase and exchange numbering approximately 10000 sheets a considerable proportion of which are mounted.
The Academy's expeditions added 450 sheets as follows  Thomasville Georgia 50 sheets collected by Mr. J.
A. G. Rehn Cuba and southern Florida 125 and 25 respectively collected by Dr. H. A. Pilsbry and from the Florida keys 250 sheets collected by the Conservator.
All the specimens received have been poisoned and a considerable nnniber mounted and distributed through the Herbarium.
The series of field excursions conducted during April and early May by the Conservator were largely attended.
luch assistance was rendered during the year to students and visiting botanists desiring to consult the collections.
The Philadelphia Botanical Club has continued to hold its meetings during the year its members having contributed over 400 sheets to the local Herbarium which collection has been placed in excellent condition through the unremitting labors of Mr. Samuel S. an Pelt.
At the meeting of the Section held December 13 1904 the following were elected as officers for the ensuing year  Director Mr. Benjamin H. Smith.
ViceDirector Mr. Joseph Crawford.
Recorder Dr. Ida A. Keller.
Secretary Mr. John T. Pennypacker.
Treasurer and Conservator .
.
Stewardson Brown.
Respectfully submitted  Stewardson Brown Conservator.
The Ornithological Section.
The ornithological collections of the Academy were never in better condition nor more accessible to the student than at present.
During the past year three additional exhibition cases have been erected in the new gallery permitting the transfer of the entire series of Raptorial birds as well ag the Pigeons.
The rearrangemcait and labelling of the former group has been completed and many duplicate specimens not required for exhibition have been arranged in the study series.
At the present time only the Passerine and Picarian birds remain in the old building and the majority of these will be transferred next year.
Thirteen additional tin storage cases and ten wooden cases have been provided for the accommodation of the study collection greatly facilitating the arrangement of many groups especially the birds of prey and providing needed space for the numerous accessions.
The Conservator has examined practically all the large bird skins during the year and carefully rearranged the old unmounted material which has been listed to facilitate consultation.
Many important additions have been made to the collection fore1904.
853 most among Avhich is a series of 360 Philippine birds purchased by the Academy a handsome collection of mounted Hummingbirds the gift of Cahdn Pardee Esq. and collections from the West Indies Colorado and California presented respectivel by Dr. J. Percy Moore Robert T. Young and W. 0.
Emerson.
The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club has continued to hold its meetings at the Academy and has done much to stimulate ornithological study.
The collections have been largely consulted during the year and considerable assistance has been rendered to visiting ornithologists.
The Conservator would acknowledge valuable assistance in the care of the collections to Mr. Paul L. Lorrilliere.
At the annual meeting of the Section held December 19 1904 the following officers were elected  Director ViceDirector Secretary Recorder Treasurer and Conservator Spencer Trotter 1.D.
George S. Morris.
William A. vShryock.
Stewardson Brown.
Witmer Stone.
WiTMER Stone Conservator.
The annual election of Officers Councillors and Members of the Committee on Accounts to serve during 1905 was held with the following result  President VicePresidents Recording Secretary Corresponding Secretary Treasurer Librarian Curators .... Samuel G. Dixon M.D Arthur Erwin Brown E. G. Conklin Ph.D. Edward J. Nolan M.D.
J. Percy Moore Ph.D. George Vaux Jr. Edward J. Nolan M.D.
Arthur Erwin Brown Samuel G. Dixon M.D.
Henry A. Pilsbrj Sc.D.
William S. Vaux Jr. 854 Dec Councillors to serve three years Committee on Accounts Councillor to serve for unexpired term of two years Thomas H. Fenton M.D.
Edwin S. Dixon John Cadwalader WilHam Sellers.
Charles Morris Samuel N. Rhoads Dr. C. Newlin Peirce John G. Rothermell Howard Crawley.
Frederick Prime.
COUNCIL FOR 1905.
Exofjicio.
 Samuel G. Dixon M.D. Edwin G. Conklin Ph.D. Arthur Erwin Brown Edward J. Nolan M.D. J. Percy Moore Ph.D. George Vaux Jr. Henry A. Pilsbry Sc.D. and William S. Vaux Jr. To serve Three Years.
 Thomas Fenton M.D. Edwin S. Dixon John Cadwalader and William Sellers.
To serve Two Years.
 Dr. C. Newlin Peirce Philip P. Calvert Ph.D. Thomas Biddle M.D. and Frederick Prime.
To serve One Year.
 Thomas A. Robinson Charles B. Penrose I.D.. Charles Morris Isaac J. Wistar.
Curator of Mollusca Assistant Librarian Assistants to the Curators Taxidermist Jessiip Fund Students Henry A. Pilsbry Sc.D.
William J.
Fox.
Witmer Stone Henry Skinner M.I. Stewardson Brown J. Percy Moore Ph.D. Edward G. Vanatta Henry W. Fowler J.
A. G. Rehn H. Newell Wardle.
David McCadden.
H. Newell Wardle J.
A. G. Rehn Paul L. Lorrilliere.
Janitors Charles Clappier Daniel Heckler James Tague Jacob Acley.
