STRUCTURE AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMPOUND EYE OF THE HONEY BEE.
BY EVERETT FRANKLIN PHILLIPS PH.D. Harrison Fellow for Research in Zoology University of Pennsylvania.
Contents.
I.
Introduction.
II.
Methods.
III.
Adult Form of Eye and Ommatidium.
IV.
Embryology and Structure in Detail.
1.
The Entire Eye.
2.
Arrangement of Ommatidia.
3.
Hair Cells.
V. Retinular Ganglion.
VI.
The Ommatidium.
1.
Larva.
2.
Pupa.
a.
The Retinula.
b.
The Cone Cells.
c. The Corneal Pigment Cells and the Lens.
d. The Outer Pigment Cells.
3.
The Adult Ommatidium.
a.
The Retinula.
VII.
Homologies of Component Parts.
VIII.
Summary.
Literature.
Explanation of Plates.
I.
 Introduction.
The morphology of the compound eye has puzzled zoologists for years and much work has been done on the subject but so diverse are the views held by the various investigators in the field that we are far from a final solution of the problem.
With a view to adding some evidence from the embryological point of view this work was begun in the belief that a detailed examination of this one insect eye would throw some light on the adult morphology.
The eye of the common honey bee.
Apis meUifcra is particularly favorable for embryological work since its growth is gradual and the steps of development well marked out.
The material is also easily obtained and the various stages of growth can be distinguished by the external appearance of the larvae and pupse.
It is also favorable for a comparison with the development of the eye of Vespahich was described by Patten since it is desirable to find how far his results can be verified on a closely related form.
The large number of ommatidia in each eye make the preparation of sections an easier matter since it was not necessary to cut so many eyes.
The adult ommatidium of the bee was briefly described and figured by Grcnacher in his celebrated work Sehorgan der Arthropoden 1879 and has been figured in works on apiculture but has never been fully worked out in the adult condition and no work has been done on the development of the eye.
Biitschli 1860 in his work on the embryology of the bee discusses the formation of the eye but does not go into the subject of the development of the ommatidium.
This work was taken up with a view to getting first of all a complete description of the development and structure and in addition to get some light on certain problems which are of especial interest from a theoretical standpoint.
The innervation of the ommatidium the method of formation and fundamental plan of the ommatidium the method of modification of numerical plan and structure in the evolution the arrangement of ommatidia the homology of various cells in different ommatidia and the comparison of ommatidia with other senseorgans are questions which have been much discussed and in this work an effort has been made to apply the observations made to the solution of these problems.
This is done not without the realization that some of these things can be settled only from wide comparisons but with the thought that a piece of work which takes in the whole course of development is of more value than superficial observations of a large number of forms.
Some of the theories are merely matters of interpretation rather than of direct observation and must remain so until decisive observations are made but in matters of this kind the accumulation of evidence is of decided value.
The formation of the optic lobes and the course of the nervous elements through them are problems which have not been taken up for investigation in this work.
Kenyon has worked out the structure of the optic lobes for Apis in detail with nerve methods.
The technique used in the present work not being suitable for the tracing of nerves only on matters concerning the nerve endings of the retinula has any investigation been made in this work and that was not done by Kenyon.
In the matter of nomenclature an effort has been made to avoid the use of new names or of some of the names which have been proposed by some workers who have special theories to uphold such as calyx lentigen corneagen etc.
In the case of the cells which surround the cone I have used the name corneal pigment cells since they have a double function.
In other cases I have used generally accepted names.
The plan followed in this paper is to give first a brief description of the adult eye so that further discussion will be more intelligible and then to take up the development of the entire eye and ommatidium followed by a detailed description of the adult conditions since that was the plan followed during investigation and is perhaps the order which will be most clear to the reader.
This work was taken up at the suggestion of Dr. Thos.
H. Montgomery Jr. now Professor of Zoology in the University of Texas and was completed under the supervision of Professor E. G. Conklin.
To both I am indebted for many valuable suggestions and for help throughout the work.
II.
 Methods.
Larvse and pupse were fixed in Flemming's fluid Hermann's fluid picrosulphuric picroacetic and picric acid saturated in 50 per cent alcohol but of these the Flemming and Hermann preparations yielded the best results.
For the smaller larvse it was not necessary to dissect before fixation but for older larvse and pupae the head was removed to make penetration easier.
For adult material where penetration is difficult the best fixative was acetic acid generally a 10 per cent.
or 20 per cent acetic solution in 80 per cent to 100 per cent alcohol.
Kleinenberg's picrosulphuric and picric acid in 50 per cent alcohol were also used with fair results when the head was cut in two.
The material was all cut in paraffine and it was found that for adult material long embedding was necessary four to eight hours to get the paraffine all through the tissues.
Some material was embedded for a shorter time to see whether the heat had produced any artifacts in the other material which was embedded for the longer period but in such cases the lens invariably separated from the retinular layer no difference was observed in the internal tissues due to long heating.
In staining the best results were obtained in the use of Heidenhain's iron hsematoxylin with the use of a strong mordant for a long time.
For material of this kind there seems to be no better stain.
It was found that by destaining to different degrees the various parts of the eye would show differences in color the rhabdome for example staining an intense black in rather deeply stained material.
The nerve fibrils of the retinula cells also stained black with this stain.
Other stains such as Delafield's hsematoxylin and eosine or Bordeaux red were employed with very good results.
For depigmenting Grenacher's solution with a somewhat greater per cent of acid was used.
Parker's solution was also used though the former gave the better results.
III.
 Adult Form of Eve and Ommatidium.
Before takint up the emljryonic development of the eye it may le well to give a short description of the adult form so that what follows concerning the embryology may be more clear.
The compound eye is made up of great nimibers of similar ommatidia surroimded y pigment cells.
Among the pigment cells lying between the ommatidia are large numbers of hair cells which secrete the long unbranched haii's which cover the surface of the eye.
The entire eye is covered by a layer of chitin continuous with the chitin of the body wall.
Each ommatidium is composed of an external lens a crjstalline cone and a rhabdome surrounded by eight or occasionally nine long retinular cells which extend from the cone to the basement membrane.
Besides these are two pigment cells the corneal pigment cells which surround the crystalline cone and about twelve which run the entire length of the ommatidium from the lens to the basement membrane making in all about twentyeight cells to each ommatidium.
It might be well to include in this enumeration a retinular ganglion cell since there is probably one to each ommatidium.
The lens is chitinous and quite thick and complicated in structure as will be shown later.
The crystalline cone is composed of four highly modified cells whose nuclei have almost entirely disappeared and the cells are modified internally by the accumulation of an intercellular secretion which is more dense than the original cytoplasm but not so dense as the lens.
The retinular cells begin at the apex of the cone and from their proximal ends at the basement membrane send in neural fibres to the retinular ganglion.
Each of the retinular cells has decome differentiated on its inner face to form a part of the rhabdome which extends from the apex of the cone to the distal side of the basement membrane.
This rhabdome is not chitinous but is perfectly transparent and slightly more dense than the surrounding cytoplasm.
The corneal pigment cells and the outer pigment cells which surround the entire ommatidium serve to prevent the reflection of light in the ommatidium and the passage of rays of light from one ommatidium to another.
IV. Embryology and Structure in Detail.
1.
The Entire Eye.
The eye arises as a thickening of the hjpodermis on the side of the head just posterior to the place where the antennae arise and just over the optic ganglia.
This thickening takes place before the larva 1905.
12 is hatched from the egg and the newly hatched larva shows it clearly the boundaries of the eye are not as well marked as they become by the time the larva is one day old.
The optic ganglia are formed at this time as they arise very early in the development but the retinular ganglia are not formed until alater larval period.
Fig.
1.
 Edge of entire eye showing the relation of lens to the chitin of the body and the strip of chitin running down into the head around the eye.
Fig.
2.
 Section through edge of pupal eye before infolding occurs showing transition from hypodermis to eye structures.
This thickened lajer of the hypodermis of the newly hatched larva consists of columnar cells with their nuclei arranged at different levels giving the eye a pseudostriated appearance.
The cells at this time all extend the same distance so that the eye arises from a strictly onelayered condition.
At this time there is no connection with the optic ganglia.
During the larval growth the eye increases greatly in size and mitotic figures are abundant the mitosis always d viding the cells lengthwise so that the onelayered condition is retained until the close of the larval period.
During the semipupa stage after the larva is sealed up by the workers of the hive but before it assumes the true pupa form the onelayered epithelium gives place to a condition in which all the cells do not extend all the way from the outer surface to the basement membrane.
This is brought about by the lengthening of some cells the shortening of others and by the rearrangement of the cells in a manner to bf described later.
By the time the head has attained the size and shape of the adult the cells have arranged themselves so that the ommatidia are completely formed and no more mitoses occur.
The development of the ommatidia from now on consists of the differentiation of the cell elements until they assume their adult form.
The development of the eye as a W'hole consists of a thickening of the organ and the laying down of a chitinous lens over the surface.
At the sides of the eye of the young pupa the appearance is as shown in text fig.
2 and the cells which correspond to the corneal pigment cells around the ommatidia are quite numerous and shade off gradually into the cells of the hypodermis over the rest of the head.
As the eye increases in thickness by the lengthening of the ommatidia there appears a dipping in of the cells of the border so that there is an invagination all around the eye where the secreting surface of the hypodermis is pulled down.
This is shown by a thin sheet of chitin which runs around the eye seen in section text fig.
1 in the late pupa and adult eye.
This chitin is similar to the chitin of the body proper but not like that over the eye.
This invagination must not be confused with.
such an invagination as is described by Patten for the formation of the lens layer for the ommatidia are here completely formed and the corneal pigment cells have moved to their place at the proximal end of the cone before the dipping of the cells here described takes place.
In the formation of the optic ganglia which takes place by the invagination of cells of the hypodermis there is formed a brain sheath  a sheath of cells covering the ganglia and still continuous with the hypodermis at the edge of the eye.
This layer of cells runs along proximal to the basement membrane and very close to it in the pupa stage.
As the retinular ganglia take on their final shape these cells are pushed away from the basement membrane and are seen in the adult eye as strands of cytoplasm woven in among the nerve fibres between the basement membrane and the retinular ganglion.
The nuclei of these cells are smaller and are easily distinguishable from the retinular ganglion nuclei which lie near them see text fig.
3.
On the edge of the nerve bundle this layer is continuous with the brain sheath in the adult.
The strands of protoplasm of which this layer of cells is composed after it is perforated by the nerve fibres often run up close to the basement membrane and might easily be mistaken for nerve fibres to the outer pigment cells but their origin indicates that they are not nerves and there is no indication of any nervous connection for the pigment cells.
Kenyon recognized this layer of cells which he describes as follows  The outer mass first fibrillar mass presents a lunar appearance in frontal sections see fig.
1 of this paper and lies close inside the basement membrane of the retina being separated from it by sufficient space for the entrance of large tracheal sacs and a thin layer of cells commingled with the fibres from the retina.
It will be seen that working with nerve methods this author did not recognize them as nerve fibres nor did he describe any nervous connection with the pigment cells.
Frequently these strands of protoplasm run close to the basement membrane and there spread out as a pyramidal protoplasmic mass lying between the nerve fibrils.
This is particularly noticeable in pupa stages before this layer of cells is so greatly distorted.
The basement membrane is made up of a fusion of the proximal ends of the outer pigment cells with the pigmented portion of the retinular cells.
This makes a sheet of cytoplasm perforated where the nerve fibres pass from the retinular cells which can easily be macerated away from the other elements of the eye and is easily distinguishable on account of its deeply pigmented condition.
The nerve fibres from the retina pass through this and are seen as more or less separated on a section through that region fig.
18.
This basement membrane is.
continuous with the basement membrane of the hypodermal cells'.
Fig.
10 shows diagrammatically the structure of the base of an ommatidium and the elements which compose the basement membrane but does not show the separation of nerve fibrils since that is seen clearly only in cross sections through that region.
There are no tracheae distal to the basement membrane in the compound eye of the bee such as have been described in other eyes especially among the Diptera
Exception must be taken to the statement of Hickson that  no spirallymarked tracheae penetrate the optic tract at any part of its course in Hymenoptera
Between the basement ' P. 369.
 P. 223.
9 130 Feb. membrane and the retinular ganglion tracheae with spiral markings occur in all specimens examined see text fig.
3 but the statement of Hickson holds good for all other parts of the optic tract as far as has been observed.
Kenyon also mentions the presence of tracheae in this region.
2.
Arrangement of Ommatidia.
ret.gar5.a Fig.
3.
 Section below basement membrane showing retinular ganglion cells and nerve fibrils from ommatidia.
The facets of the lens are arranged in hexagons as is true for so many insect eyes but this is probably not a primitive condition.
Hexagonal arrangement is what is produced whenever any circular objects are closely pressed together just as the cells of the honeycomb are hexagonal and this undoubtedly explains the shape and arrangement of the facets.
Parker for Crustacea looks upon unfaceted eyes as primitive and probably this is true for insects also.
We have however in the proximal portion of the eye a different arrangement which is perhaps more primitive than the hexagonal method.
At any level proximal to the cone cells the ommatidia are arranged in parallel rows and the nearer we come to the base of the ommatidia the clearer is this arrangement until on a section at the level of the basement membrane fig.
18 we see this parallel arrangement very marked.
Since here we get a condition in which the ommatidia are not pressed together and therefore are not modified mechanically it probably represents a more primitive condition than that found in the lens region.
In the pupa even the facets do not have as marked a hexagonal arrangement as they have later and in the larva we get an arrangement identical with that of the bases of the adult ommatidia.
The numerical plan and shape of the parts of the ommatidium may have something to do with the arrangement.
The retinular cells are eight in number but four of these are wider than those which alternate with them and as a result a crosssection of the retina is roughly a square.
The outer pigment cells are twelve in number when their arrangement is unmodified by hair cells and this number readily arranges itself into a square with three on a side or into a hexagon with two on a side.
Since the outer pigment cells are simply strands of cytoplasm they readily accommodate themselves to an change of arrangement and are not as a rule without some bend so these cells could scarcely modify an ommatidial plan of arrangement.
The basement membrane is considerably smaller in area than the lens chitin and as a result the room provided for each ommatidium is considerably decreased so that in contrast with what has been stated that the ommatidia are not so crowded proximal to the cone it might be supposed that the converse would be true.
However the fact is that in crosssection a larger proportion of space is occupied by outer pigment cells the interommatidial spaces near the base of the ommatidia than near the lens and since as above stated these cells are flexible and not crowded it scarcely seems to follow that this parallel arrangement is due to crowding.
The hexagonal arrangement is undoubtedly the common plan at least as far as the lens is concerned and the tetragonal arrangement may be derived from it as held by Parker and his arguments for such an origin seem good  but on the other hand the hexagonal arrangement could scarcely give rise to the tetragonal unless preceding the hexagonal facets the ommatidia were in squares so that the secondary crowding would bring about the primitive arrangement again.
Taking again the case of the honeycomb no additional crowding could possibly make the cells square for the more the circular walls the primitive cells are crowded the more truly they become hexagonal.
However if the walls were made of four parts as is the cone and if they were fastened at their bases in parallel rows then additional crowding might cause the lens to lose its circular outline and become square in which case the hexagonal arrangement of the lens would be lost.
It seems probable that the cone determines the arrangement rather than the lenssecreting cells and Parker's figures of Gonodactylus Parker 1890 PI.
VIII fig.
93 in which the tetragonal arrangement is found in the large ommatidia and not in the small ones lend support to this view.
To sum up it seems probable that the arrangement of ommatidia where they are sufficient in number to be said to have any plan at all is normally the tetragonal plan.
If the cones are somewhat compressed as they generally are on account of the way in which a compound eye is made up a hexagonal arrangement of the distal parts of the ommatidia results but if the pressure is sufficient to cause the cone to lose its circular form then it becomes a square and the facet plan again becomes tetragonal.
3.
Hair Cells.
The entire lens of the eye of the bee especially in the younger individuals is covered with large hairs unlike those of the rest of 132 Feb. the bod in being unbranched.
These hairs are secreted by large hairmother cells which lie among the outer pigment cells between the ommatidia and their development is of interest on account oe
c.c.
d Fig.
4.0.
Hair cell of young pupa sliowdng three nucM and intracellular duct.
b. Crosssection through pupal retinulse showing one hair cell.
c. Crosssection through hair just at level of cones showing structure of intracellular duct.
d. Crosssection distal to c and beyond surface of eye.
e. Older pupa hair cell.
.
Hair cell of adult showing relation to cone and lens.
of the presence in them of an intracellular duct and because of their binucleated condition.
In the larval eye these hair cells cannot be definitely located but there are certain large cells with peculiar nuclei which are probably hair cells.
In the early pupa these cells are large and have two or sometimes three nuclei lut when a third nucleus is present it is considerably smaller than the two more distally placed ones.
In the early stages this polynucleated cell contains an intracellular duct which opens into the tubular hair and through this duct passes the secretion products of the cell for the formation of the hair.
The hair proper is tubular and in material stained in iron hsematoxylin darker lines appear in the walls and these structures extend for a short distance down into the cell proper around the duct.
The duct has wellmarked boundaries does not branch and generally coils around the second nucleus text fig.
4.
As the lens increases in thickness the hairs elongate by the secretion of the hair cells and as this goes on the cytoplasm of the cell is used up until finally in the adult eye the cell has about onesixth the volume it had in the early pupal eye.
In the intracellular duct and in the hair duct the products of secretion may be observed in fixod material as darker bodies of irregular shape.
These hairs and hair cells have no nerve connection as far as I can observe and are therefore not sensory hairs.
Just why the entii'e eye should be covered by hairs is hard to explain for they must undoubtedly obscure vision and since such a hindrance is present we should expect to find it compensated for by some sensory function on the part of the hair.
I can find no indication that such is the case.
It is worthy of note that the older bees have lost most of the hairs both on the eyes and on the body by the time they need the eyes for prolonged flight.
The younger bees up to nearly three weeks of age leave the hive but rarely and then for short distances only but the older bees which take long journeys have the eyes much more bare.
It is also noticeable that all the bees but especially the drones brush the hairs so that they all point down toward the mouth just before leaving the hive entrance.
No doubt in the hive the head which is so frequently put into the cells becomes soiled with honej and pollen and this action of brushing may be merely to remove dirt but on the other hand the arranging of the partly transparent hairs in one direction may produce certain results of refraction which are favorable.
In VanessaJohansen describes hair cells as running the length of the ommatidia without an intracellular duct and with but one nucleus.
He is able to locate these cells at an earlier stage than has been possible for the bee on account of the proximal position of the nucleus.
From the figure of a crosssection of the cornea it would appear that these cells are not so abundant as in Apis.
Patten figures hair cells for Vespaery similar to those here described but I am unable to find the nerve connections which he describes.
Semper and Breitenbach also describe such hair cells for Lepidoptera
The number of facets in the different kinds of individuals of the colony differs considerably.
The drones males have an extremely large number of ommatidia the eyes meeting on the top of the head aiid as a result the three ocelli are crowded down to the front of the head.
The workers and queens have a considerably smaller number about onethird as many and the ocelli are located at the top of the head.
It is not clear why the drones should have a larger number of ommatidia than the females of the colony since they do not seem to need so much larger range of vision.
The only reason which might be suggested from a knowledge of the habits of the two sexes is that at the time when the queen takes her mating flight she flies almost directly upward after a preliminary circle or two near the hive and then often flies to some distance from the hive  this manner of flying making more probable a mating with a drone from some other colony than her own.
Drones do not as a rule fly as high as does the queen and it would be advantageous to have the eyes extending to the top of the head in order to follow the queen's flight.
As soon as a queen starts upward any drones which are flying near at hand start upward after her the eyes on the top of the head making it possible for them to see her.
To say that this difference has arisen on this account scarcely seems justifiable for it would seem easier for natural selection sexual selection or whatever other factor is potent here to modify the habits of flight rather than to enlarge an organ so much as in this case.
This much may however be said with a good deal of surety two things which would be likely to be acted on by selection in the bee are acuteness and range of vision and the power of flight.
V.  Retinular Ganglion.
In the early larval stages the optic ganglia are clearly marked out but the retinular ganglia arc not.
The only indication of the retinular ganglia is a number of cells which lie near the basement membrane of the eye principally at the posterior margin.
During the larval growth the nerve fibres from the ommatidia grow in from the retinular cells and as this growth goes on the cells of what are to be the retinular ganglia are pushed farther away from the basement membrane and assume their more definite position.
Finally in the adult animal the nerve fibres from the ommatidia form a relatively compact mass and the retiniilar ganglion cells are scattered through the fibres in such a way as to have the appearance of a definite ganglion.
The nuclei of the retinular ganglion are no longer nearly in one plane but are scattered for a considerable distance between the basement membrane and the outer fibrillar mass due to the crowding of the nerve fibres.
The question naturally arises as to the number of cells of the retinular ganglion as compared with the number of ommatidia.
A count is of course impossible but careful examination reveals that there cannot be many more than one to an ommatidium certainly not one to each retinular cell.
The eight nerve fibres from each group of retinular cells are entirely separate but lie close together so that probably one and only one retinular ganglion cell receives the impulse carried from the retina on eight nerve processes and consecutive crosssections indicate that the eight nerve fibrils surround the thick part of the retinular ganglion cell where the nucleus is located and transmit the impulse by contact.
In his description of this region Kenyon says The elements from the retina terminate each in a small tuft of fine branches in the outer fibrillar body and come in contact with the fine lateral branchlets given off in the same region by fibres originating from the cells of Berger's granular layer retinular ganglion.
The tuft of fine branches here mentioned are the separate nerve fibres from the retinulae.
I have been unable to see the fine branches of the retinular ganglion cells.
The retinular ganglion cell in turn sends in its fibre through the first fibrillar mass and then through the outer chiasma to the opposite side of the group of ganglia where the impulse is given over to a cell of the first optic ganglion.
From here on the tracing of the fibres requires special nerve methods which were not employed in this work.
However this much is evident  the cells of the first optic ganglion send their fibres through the second fibrillar mass and through the inner chiasma to the second optic ganglion where the impulse is probably again transferred to another cell which in turn carries it to the brain.
The course of these fibres has been worked out in detail by Kenyon 1897 and in my work I find nothing to contradict his results although the methods used in my work were not such as to warrant either a positive denial or confirmation of his work.
P.
374.
136 Feb. VI.
 The Ommatidium.
1.
The Larva.
In the larva justafter being hatched from the egg I have been unable to find any indication of the grouping of cells which are later to go together to form a single ommatidium.
The eye at this time is a simple layer of the thickened hypodermis with the nuclei arranged one above the other.
At this time and throughout the entire larval period mitotic figures are abundant the spindles always having their axes at right angles to the length of the cell and dividing the cells lengthwise.
Fig.
5.
 a. Longitudinal section of larval ommatidia.
h. Crosssection near surface of eye showing first differentiation of rhabdome rhb.
as a clear space in the retinula ret.
 c. Crosssection at a lower level d. Crosssection of a very young larva each division line representing a complete ommatidium.
The division figures seem to be more abundant near the outer surface of the epithelium.
About one day after leaving the egg when the larva has about doubled in size a tangental section of the eye at right angles to the long axes of the cells at the outer surface reveals a grouping of cells as represented in text fig.
bd.
The lines in this figure do not represent cell boundaries but are the boundaries of groups of cells each group contains four or five cells at this time the nuclei of these cells being directly one above the other.
The cell groups are tetragonal and are arranged roughly in parallel rows.
In longitudinal section these groups appear as made up of long strands with superimposed nuclei about the diameter of the entire width of the group of cells.
That these are the beginnings of the ommatidia is evident since they can be traced through all the larval stages to the pupa where the ommatidia are definitely marked.
This is further indicated by the fact that they are arranged in the same way as are the proximal ends of the ommitidia even m the adult eye.
It should be borne in mind that this epithelium is strictly onelayered and this is true all through the larval period.
During the larval period as above stated mitotic figures are abundant and as a result of these divisions the groups come to be composed of more and more cells but it is not until a late larval period about four and a half days from the hatching of the egg for worker larva that any further differentiation is observable except possibly that the nuclei of some of the cells are larger than others in the same group.
At this late larval period the cells arrange themselves as a spindleshaped mass surrounded by smaller cells whose smaller nuclei he m the space left at the outer end of the spindle.
.Mitotic figures are now absent except an occasional one in the smaller cells but so far none have been observed in the larger centrally placed cells of the group.
The number of cells in the spindle is hard to determine since the nuclei are at different levels and the cell boundaries are not visible.
All the nuclei of the central bundle of cells are some distance below the surface.
There are certainly however not more than eight or nine the number of retinular cells of the adult ommatidium.
At the distal end of this spindle a differentiation of cytoplasm takes place and a clear space is formed in the centre of the cells in the very granular protoplasm and this I believe to be the beginning of the rhabdome.
A crosssection near the outer surface of the cell mass shows this clear space surrounded by granular cytoplasm of the spindle cells and this in turn surrounded by nuclei arranged around the central bundle.
These outer nuclei are not as yet differentiated so that their future fate cannot be determined.
The cells of the spindle by this time have sent out protoplasmic processes toward the optic lobes which become the nerve fibres of the ommatidium so that at any rate some of the spindle becomes the retinula.
Several facts seem to indicate that the spindleshaped centre of the ommatidium goes to form only the retinula 1 There are no nuclei near the outer surface as one would expect were crystalline cone cells to be formed from any of the cells 2 there are not enough cells to form both retinula and crystalline cone cells and since no mitotic figures have been observed they have undoubtedly ceased division 3 a clear space is formed at the distal end of the spindle by a differentiation of the cytoplasm possibly the beginning of the rhabdome since it is in this portion of the retinula that the rhabdome is seen in the youngest pupal eye observed just after the semipupa stage.
The number of nuclei around the spindle throws no light on this since they are still dividing occasionally and their number in the adult is not fixed.
Considerable stress has been laid on the fate of this spindleshaped mass of cells since the determination of this fact alone is of such great importance in the consideration of the morphology of the ommatidium.
That the outer pigment cells are morphologically peripheral to the crystalline cone and retinula no one would deny.
The position of the corneal pigment cells might be a doubtful point if they were derived from a separate layer of cells formed by invagination of the entire eye but as no such invagination occurs in the bee and as at an early pupa stage they are clearh outside the cone I think there can be no doubt as to their morphological position.
The question as to the relative morphological position of the crystalline cone cells and the retinular cells is however not so clear.
According to Grenacher the ommatidium is twolayered and the lens and cone are morphologically distinct from the retina.
If this view is held then the question stated above does not exist but such an interpretation can no longer be held on comparative anatomical or embryological grounds as has been shown so well by numerous investigators the evidence for which it is not necessary to give here.
Suffice it to say that as has been shown previously the ommatidium of Apis arises from a onelayered epithelium and all the cells are morphologically equivalent.
Taking into consideration then only such views as are based on such interpretations we find two opposing theories.
According to Patten Kingsley and others the crystalline cone is sometimes continuous with the rhabdome these two would therefore be the morphological centre of the ommatidium while the retinula must arise from colls outside this.
When the crystalline cone is not continuous with the rhabdome.
Patten still considers the cone as the centre since he describes processes running from each cone cell around the rhabdome but inside the retinula as in Vespa
To this interpretation those investigators who consider the crystalline cone as the terminus of the nerve fibres would probably agree.
On the other hand Watase holds that the ommatidium is a morphological invagination of which the retinula is the centre and the cone cells lens cells homologous with the corneal pigment cells of Apis and pigment cells follow in the order named.
By this interpretation the rhabdome cone substance and lens are homodynamous.
These two views seem in no way reconcilable and more investigation is necessary to decide between them since it scarcely seems probable that both plans exist since all ommatidia are probably the result of one kind of development.
Patten bases his view on the fact that the cone cells are continuois with and part of the rhabdome but surely in Apis there is no such continuity since all through the development they are separate and in the adult eye there is a sharp line of demarcation between them and they also react very differently to stains.
In Vespaatten admits that the rhabdome is not continuous with the crystalline cone cells but in this case he describes processes between the rhabdome and retinula which correspond to the processes which form the rhabdome in other forms.
Since as will be discussed later the rhabdome is really part of the retinula being formed as an intracellular secretion any such process from the cone cells would have to pierce the retinula cells to occupy such a position.
No such processes occur in Apis.
If such a view be held because it is necessary in some way for the nerve fibres to reach the crystalline cone on the assumption that the nerves end there such a necessity disappears for as will be shown under a discussion of the innervation of the ommatidium the cone is in no way a nerve terminus.
Such a theory of innervation does not seem justified for any ommatidium and therefore the necessity for this conception of the morphology disappears.
On the other hand Watase based his view largely on the eye of Limulus.
This view commends itself on account of its extreme simplicity since all ommatidia readily lend themselves to the plan of diagrammatic representation used by Watase with this interpretation.
Watase seems to have advanced this theory rather for the purpose of giving some explanation for the existence of the rhabdome than for the morphology of the entire ommatidium.
There is I think no reason to believe that the rhabdome was ever a chitinous substance and in that sense it is not homologous with the lens.
In the ommatidium as we now know it the rhabdome is an intracellular secretion full of nerve fibrils and is far from being a hard chitinous growth.
To that extent then Watase's conception seems an error.
If however we look on the lens cone substance and rhabdome as secretions nonliving protoplasmic differentiations of which the lens only is an extracellular secretion then the homology may hold.
Acording to this view then the ommatidium did not arise as a pit filled with chitin but rather the sinking in of certain cells with a corresponding retention of the secretion inside the cell has taken place with the assumption of new functions.
Parker has argued that the retinular cells cannot be considered as homologous with the lens secreting cells since the lens cells secrete on their distal surface while the retinular cells secrete on their lateral surfaces.
My observations show that both cone cells and retinular cells form their secretions intracellularly and from their very positions they could not secrete on their distal surfaces but this does not seem to me to be any objection to the theory of Watase since in the invagination of the cells and the taking on of new functions new forms of metabolic activity might easily be acquired.
Since however in the emtoyonic development of the ommatidium of the bee we find a stage in which the retinula is formed without cone cells on the distal end and with the rhabdome partly formed the only inference it seems to me is that the cone arises from lateral cells and the corneal and outer pigment cells are of course still more peripheral.
From this then it seems to follow that the conception of Watase concerning the morphology of the ommatidium is the correct one.
There is so far as has been observed no real invagination but such a thing would scarcely be expected in so compact an organ neither have I observed the actual overgrowing of the cone cells but the conclusion seems inevitable that the retinula is the centre of the ommatidium.
Some compound eyes have been described in which in the adult eye the retinular cells extend outside the cone to the lens.
Such cases are fouad when the number of pigment cells is reduced or when they are .
entirely wanting and it is safe to assume that the distal lengthening has taken place secondarily late in development.
From the migration of the corneal pigment cells of the ommatidium of the bee to be described later we sec that a late rearrangement is possible and it seems more plausible to assume that such cases are a secondary modification rather than that there are two ground plans of ommatidia one of which has its retinula centrally placed the other has the cone cells inside the retinula as the axis.
The retinular spindle of the larva resembles in appearance various sense buds throughout the animal kingdom such as taste buds and lateral line organs of vertebrates the aesthetes of Chitons etc.
These sense buds often have some marked differentiation of the cytoplasm internal
 to enable the peripheral organ to perform its function.
This similarity is more than superficial however for the method of innervation which will be described in detail later is from the sense cell toward the central nervous system and this is the method for many of these sense buds although the opposite direction of fibres is described for some e.g. taste buds.
It is safe to assume that these sense buds are accumulations of single sensory cells such as are widely known e.g. sensory epithelial cells of Lumbricus epithelial sensory cells Flemming's cells of Molluscs giving greater efficiency at a certain spot and that the internal differentiations are but secretions or cytoplasmic differentiations due to the specialized condition of the cell.
Granting these facts then sense buds are homologous of necessity only in their origin from an epidermal tissue although the homology may be greater.
Since sense buds are known which are sensitive to touch taste smell sight and vibration waves it seems entirely unnecessary to assume that a lightperceiving organ such as an ommatidium has arisen as a modification of some other kind of sense bud rather than that it arose as an accumulation of epithelial cells already sensitive to light.
Since we know that single cells are acted upon by light waves e.g. Protozoa and that epidermal cells often give rise to nervous impulses when acted upon by light e.g. skin of the earth worm there seems no reason for assuming that the ommatidium has arisen other than by an accumulation of such sensitive cells and then by invagination a lightrefracting organ has been formed over it.
Such a view is directly opposed to the view of Patten that the ommatidium is a hairbearing sense organ.
As will be shown later his theory is untenable on account of the absence of the essential structure for such a homology  the hair.
There is not only no indication of such an organ for the eye but no need for such a complicated theory of the origin of these organs since easy transition steps from a single cell sensitive to light to the ommatidium are obtainable and such an origin seems far more probable.
Johansen 1893 in his description of the development of the eye of Vanessaurticoe L. figures and describes a spindleshaped mass of cells which is the ommatidium of the pupa when two days and one hour old.
He has also observed the same spindle mass in the young pupa of Sphinx euphorhice.
This differs from what I have described for Apis in that the corneal pigment cells and cone cells lie distal to the retinula and I am led to conclude that he has observed a stage just after the sinking in of the retinula a stage which I am unable to describe for Apis.
At any rate his conception of the morphology agrees with mine since the retinula is in the centre of the ommatidium and the cone cells and corneal pigment cells are lateral to it.
2.
Pupa.
During the socalled semipupa stage just after the larva is sealed up by the workers of the hive and before the bee is a complete pupa very rapid growth takes place and the eye increases still more in size and becomes more and more differentiated until at the beginning of the pupa stage proper the ommatidia are completely formed.
The exact method by which this differentiation takes place is difficult to learn since the growth at this time is so very rapid that it is practically impossible to get all the stages.
The head of the insect grows very rapidly and the eyes keep pace with it.
The retinular cells become longer and broader and the retinulae lie closer together.
The cone and corneal pigment cells come to lie at the distal end of the retinula by the method previously described.
When the pupa stage proper is entered upon the area of the eye is practically that of the adult eye.
The various stages of the pupa period are easily distinguishable externally and this fact is of great value in the selection of material.
The eye is first white like the rest of the body then pink then brown and finally as the other parts of the body take on their adult colors black.
These changes of color are due to the deposition of pigment in the various cells of the ommatidium pigment in the corneal pigment cells being red in color giving the first color externally and the darker pigments of the other cells obscuring this color at a later period.
These changes enable one to choose the desired material by simply uncapping the cells containing pupse without removing the bee from its cell since the head is always toward the outside.
From this stage on it becomes necessary to discuss the various parts of the ommatidium separately.
Such a method tends to give the impression of a lack of continuity in mode and time of development but the drawings which accompany the description are made of the entire ommatidiimi and these will show the relative size and degree of development at various stages.
The order followed is from the retinula to the more lateral cells.
a.
The Retinula.
 The retinula cells are eight in number normally but numerous ommatidia are observed in which nine cells are present.
In the earliest pupa stage fig.
3 these cells extend from the proximal end apex of the cone cells to the basement membrane and each cell has a protoplasmic process extending through the openings in the basement membrane toward the optic lobes which later functions as the nervous connection of these cells with the cells of the retinular ganglion.
At this time the only indication of the rhabdome is the clear space at the distal end which was described for the larval ommatidium its differentiation has gone on little if any during the rearrangement of cells.
The cytoplasm at the distal end of the cells is more granular than elsewhere and by the time the eye has reached the stage figured pigment is laid down around the forming rhabdome.
This is the first pigment laid down in the ommatidium but at almost the same time the corneal pigment cells acquire pigment.
The spindle shape of the retinula so marked in the larval condition is still retained the retinula being widest at about onethird of the distance from the cone cells to the basement membrane.
The relatively large nuclei of the retinula at this time are near together and in no definite arrangement in the thickest portion of the cell group.
The cytoplasm of the cells is uniform except as described for the distal end and the cell membranes between the various cells are not visible.
The outside boundaries of the retinula group at this time and all through development mark off the retinula from its surrounding pigment cells very sharply and the difference in the appearance of the protoplasm makes it impossible to confuse the various cells.
The portion of the retinula which lies between its thickest part and the basement membrane is a strand of protoplasm circular in crosssection and without any signs of differentiation.
As the basement membrane changes its position by a process to be described later coming to lie near the optic ganglion this portion of the retinula becomes longer and the changes which take place in the retina consist of the making over of this strand of protoplasm into the retinula cells proper.
This change progresses proximally and consists in the widening out of the cells with its accompanying rhabdome formation.
The nuclei shift as the retinula enlarges and elongates until we reach a condition fig.
2 in which two of them are at one level and the other six or seven are at a lower level and arranged in a rosette.
At the time when the nuclei are arranged in this manner the most distal portion of the retinula becomes arranged in a definite rosette caused by each of the cells forming a projection which shows its distinctness from the others in the group in crosssection.
This arrangement also progresses proximally until in the adult condition it is found throughout the length of the retinula.
At the same time the inner portion of the mass becomes still more differentiated and in the stage just mentioned the axis of the distal end is occupied by a strand of protoplasm which takes the iron hsematoxylin stain the future rhabdome surrounded by a clearer protoplasm.
Outside of this clear area the protoplasm is granular and pigment deposition takes place here keeping pace with the inner differentiations and these changes also progress toward the basement membrane.
The rhabdome formation precedes slightly the formation of the clear protoplasm around it and the proximal end of the forming rhabdome shades off gradually into the surrounding undifferentiated cytoplasm.
The nuclei gradually move inward as the cells assume their adult form until they come to rest at about onethird of the distance from the cone to the basement membrane which on account of the tapering of the retinula is at about the centre of the cell as far as mass of cytoplasm is concerned.
One of the nuclei however moves proximally imtil it lies about halfway between the other nuclei and the basement membrane.
Where a nucleus is present the retinula cell is slightly pressed out encroaching on the outer pigment cells and the upper nuclei are not all at the same level.
The one nucleus which occupies a more proximal level is separated by some distance from any of the others however and owing to the regularity with which it is found cannot be considered as due merely to a mechanical shifting.
In the older stages of development it becomes difficult to count the nuclei of the retinula since they are at different levels but I have been unable to see anything which would lead me to suspect that this proximal nucleus was other than one of the retinular nuclei.
Neither is there any indication that the presence of this nucleus is accountable for the presence of nine retinular cells in some ommatidia for it is found in all ommatidia and the ninecelled condition is comparatively rare.
The rhabdome differentiation proceeds until it reaches the distal surface of the basement membrane where it ends abruptly.
In the pupa stages I am unable to find the nerve fibres which in the adult eye run parallel with the rhabdome and send fine fibrillse into it.
It will be noticed however that in the pupa the rhabdome is wider and not so definite in outline as it is in the adult eye and the nerve fibrils are no doubt included in this darker central body which I have identified as the rhabdome.
Both rhabdome and nerve fibrilla
are but differentiations of the cytoplasm of the retinula cells and their development takes place together.
The rhabdome is probably not a uniform structure but no doubt contains a mass of fibrillse the endings of the nerve fibres.
I am unable to see any such structures however.
The development of the retinula consists then in the changing of the sensebudlike spindle of the larval eye into a long column of cells with a clear shaft through the centre through which light can pass to reach the nerve endings in it.
From the previous description it will be evident that the rhabdome is not formed b processes from the cone cells which are present from the beginning of ommatidial development but is an intracellular differentiation of the retinula there being a sharp line of demarcation between the cone cells and rhabdome throughout their development.
b.
The Cone Cells.
 The cone cells are four in number and in the early pupa stage fig.
3 the cone is spindleshaped and lies directly distal to the retinular spindle.
The nuclei are large and spherical and lie slightly distal to the centre of the cell.
The cytoplasm is granular especiaUy in the distal portion of the spindle and the cell membranes are well marked.
Very soon the cytoplasm begins to be differentiated and by the time the pupa has reached the stage figured fig.
2 vacuoles begin to appear in the proximal end of the spindle which marks the beginning of the formation of the clear cone substance.
The cells now increase in size considerably and at the same time the number of small vacuoles increases.
Later these vacuoles unite and finally a condition is reached in which the proximal end of each cell is occupied by one large clear vacuole.
The cell boundaries remain distinct and a thin layer of granular protoplasm remains smrounding the vacuole so that it is strictly an internal secretion and not to be interpreted as a secretion poured out on the inner face of each of the cells.
This process of differentiation or intracellular secretion goes on until the nuclei which decrease in size and become long and narrow are pushed to the distal and lateral portion of the ceh where they remain in the adult eye.
These nuclei are filled with fine chromatin granules.
The cone in the meantime becomes wide at the distal end and elongates very much to assume its true cone shape and all that remains of the original cytoplasm is an extremely thin sheet all around the cone.
I am inclined to attribute the descriptions by some authors of nerve fibrils on the cone to the shrinking of this thin film under certain fixatives.
There is no nervous connection with the cone nor does it appear to have any function save transmitting light rays to the sensitive retina.
There is no indication of any prolongation of the cone proximally either to form the rhabdome as previously described or to form protoplasmic processes surrounding the rhabdome inside the retinula cells such as Patten describes for Vespa
Such fibres could not exist unless they were to pierce the retinula cells since the rhabdome is really a part of the latter and since the cell boundaries of the cone and retinula are so well marked I feel sure that no such ingrowth occurs.
Equally unsuccessful has been a search for any additions to the cone at the distal end.
In his work on the embryology of the eye of Vespaatten describes a layer of cells distal to the cone which arose by an overfolding of the sides of the entire eye and which gave rise to the lens.
In a later paper  1S90 he disposes of his invagination theory but describes a pouring out of chitin from the distal end of the cone which secretion he mistook for the layer of nuclei at an earlier time. '
From my examination of Apis material I am unable to find anything which 10 146 Feb. could be mistaken for nuclei in that position unless it be the corneal pigment cells which are lateral to the distal end of the cone or for chitinous secretion of the cone and for this insect eye at any rate I am led to doubt the validity of his homology of such a structure with the pseudocone of ommatidia of the pseudocone type since the distal end of the cone is perfectly well defined at every stage observed.
The differentiation of the cone consists in a transformation of a cone without any refractive secretion into one in which this secretion fills all the cells proximal to the nuclei or in other words a modification of an acone condition into an eucone condition to use terms introduced by Grenacher for adult conditions of some eyes.
There can be no doubt that this was the course taken during the evolution of the eucone ommatidium.
Similarly Hickson has shown that the socalled pseudocones described for many insect eyes are but instances in which the secretion has accumulated in the distal end of the cone rather than in the proximal end.
While the distinction drawn between these three kinds of cones is justifiable yet there seems nothing to oppose the view that they are but modifications of one primitive type.
The acone ommatidia have no clear refractive substance differentiated in the cone cells and are considered as the primitive type of eye.
The pseudocone cones with the differentiation of clear cone substance distal to the nuclei and the eucone cones with a proximal secretion are but modifications of the primitive type.
c. The Corneal Pigment Cells and the Lens.
 The lens is secreted by the two cells which have been designated corneal pigment cells.
In the very earliest pupa stage these cells lie distal and lateral to the cone cells and since they are thus placed at this time and since their secretion product is distal to the cone they are next in order in going out from the axis of the typical ommatidium.
Before these cells begin their secretion however the nuclei migrate down the sides of the spindleshaped cone and come to lie around the apex of the cone.
The cause of this migration is probably purely mechanical viz. the enlargement laterally and distally of the cone at the same time the nuclei are thus brought nearer to the source of nutriment.
As this shifting takes place the nuclei originally ovoid.
.pc A ret.
Fig.
6.
 Young pupal ommatidium at time of migration of corneal pigment nuclei.
become crescentshaped and finally almost encircle the apex of the cone.
Strands of cytoplasm connect the nucleated portion of the cell with the distal portion which remains at the point where secretion is to take place.
As the cone enlarges and the cell substance of the corneal pigment cells is used up in the secretion of the lens the portion distal to the cone becomes reduced until in the adult eye it is almost entirely absent.
Almost immediately after pigment is first formed in the retinula cells it begins to be deposited in these corneal pigment cells.
Owing to the fact that the retinula pigment is at first small in quantity and since there is none in the outer pigment cells at this time the pigment of these distal pigmented cells which is red gives a pink color to the entire eye in the early stages rather than the brown or black color possessed by the other pigment as is true in late stages.
The granules of pigment are large and red in color and when treated with depigmenting mixtures do not disappear but become somewhat lighter in color.
The lens is secreted by these cells in much the same way as is ordinary chitin over the entire body of the bee.
This chitinous covering is deposited in layers which are easily visible in the adult lens.
In addition to these cells the outer pigment cells also seem to enter into this.
In the pupal eyes before any chitin is deposited by the corneal pigment cells thin sheets of chitin extend out from the outer pigment cells and since these cells arc arranged at their distal ends in a nearly hexagonal manner a crosssection of these plates shows the future boundaries of the facets.
In the adult eye the portion of the cornea which directly overlies the outer pigment ceUs differs slightly from the part directly over the cone in refractive index and in general appearance so that I think it probable that the space between these sheets of chitin in the larva is filled by a secretion of the outer pigment cells.
If this be true then every cell which enters into the formation of the compound eye has to do with some sort of secretion either intraor extracellular.
The structure of the chitin laid down by the corneal pigment cells is not uniform the outermost layer being more dense than the rest with a decided tendency to take up an iron haematoxylin stain the middle or main portion being arranged in alternating layers of different densit3 and the inner portion taking a protoplasmic stain such as eosine or Bordeaux red.
From this description it will be seen that the corneal pigment cells Hauptpigmentzellen pigment cells of the first order are homologous with the corneal hypodermal cells of the crustacean and aptorygote insect eyes.
In all crustacean compound eyes small nuclei arc described as lying distal to the cone cell nuclei or Sempcr's nuclei and these are the nuclei of the cells which secrete the lens.
When the ommatidia are arranged in facets two such cells are present.
In the Apterygota e.g. Lepisma saccharinum Orchesdla etc.
Hesse 1901 these two cells are present and occupy a similar position or ma'be placed slightly more laterally.
These two cells are characteristic of these two types of compound eyes.
On the other hand the compound eyes of most pterygote insects have the two pigment cells of the first order corneal pigment cells and do not have the corneal hypodermal cells Hesse 1901 concluded that these two kinds of cells are homologous from an examination of adult eyes and considered his point strengthened by the fact that Johansen had described these pigment cells as being distal to the cone cells at an early stage.
Johansen did not describe them as homologous however and derived the lens from another source.
From an examination of Apis I am convinced that Hesse was correct in his deductions for in this case the cells are not only homologous but the pigment cells here have identically the same function as have the corneal hypodermal cells of the other eyes.
As mentioned above Johansen failed to see this homology and describes and figures the lens as being secreted by the cone cells.
It has been pointed out with sufficient detail that no such interpretation is tenable for Apis at least and we may well doubt its occurrence in Vanessa
In PI.
23 fig.
11 he figures the secretion of the lens by the cone cells and shows the corneal pigment cells extending to the distal margin and I am led to conclude that he has overlooked the position of the pigment cell which remains distal to the cone.
d. The Outer Pigment Cells.
 These cells from the earliest larva to adult stages extend the entire length of the ommatidium and are what are known as accessory cells in many eyes.
They like all the other cells of the eye are of ectodermic origin there being no cells from the mesoderm in the eye of Apis such as are described in some eyes.
These cells are normaUy twelve in number but when hair cells are present between the ommatidia which is very frequently the case this number is increased so that any definite enumeration is impossible and since these cells serve merely to fill the interornmatidial spaces and to prevent reflection inside the lens no more definite arrangement is required.
The nuclei of these cells lie proximal to the cone in pupal stages but in the lengthening of the cone they come to lie at about its middle.
1905.
149  Pigment is deposited in these cells quite early but not until after it has appeared in both the retinular and corneal pigment cells and is most abundant at the two ends of the cell.
It will be noticed that of all the cells of the eye which contain pigment none acquire this until they have begun to form the secretion to which they give rise.
The rhabdome is the first secretion formed and pigment first appears in the retinula later the lens secretion appears and then pigment appears in the secreting cells indicating it seems to me that this pigment is of the nature of a byproduct although it is of itself of value.
From one point of view pigment itself is a secretion but the accumulation of pigments often accompanies other secreting activities.
Concerning any possible movements of the pigment under different hght conditions no observations have been made.
In the region where the basement membrane is formed these cells are deeply pigmented and the line of demarcation from the cell below is very marked.
At this point also and only here the cells are fused with the retinular elements.
This intimate union can exist only when the retinular elements have filled out to that point since in the mpa stages tnat portion of the retinula is a thin strand.
The retinular cells here are also deeply pigmented.
3.
The Adult Ommatidium.
In the discussion of the changes which take place during the pupal period many of the details of the adult ommatidia are given and to avoid unnecessary repetition only such things as have been omitted will be discussed here.
a.
The Retinula. The adult retinular cells are extremely complicated structures due to the fact that each cell has so many differentiations internally.
The central part of each cell is differentiated into a sector of the rhabdome which is possibly a dead secretion but of this there is room for some doubt.
Outside the rhabdome is an area of clear protoplasm in which the nervous elements of the cell are found and still outside of this is the granular portion of the cell in which pigment granules are found.
Each of these cells then secretes part of the rhabdome acts as a pigment cell by the accumulation of pigment on its outer surface and is in addition a nerveending cell.
Fig.
7.
 Diagram of part of ommatidium showing apex of cone and distal end of retinula.
The innervation of the ommatidium is a question over which there has been much discussion and various views have been put forth.
Tlie views can however be classed into two groups those which make the cone cells the nerveending and those which find the terminations in the retinula.
It has been shown conclusively by numerous investigators that the cone has nothing whatever to do with receiving light stimuli and it would be useless to take up the arguments against this view any more than has been done in showing that in the development the cone and rhabdome are separate.
Those who hold that the retinula is the nerveending of the ommatidium have not always been able to show in a satisfactory manner just how this innervation takes place.
On this point two views have been held 1 that the retinula is innervated by nerve fibrils from the retinular ganglion which run into the retinular cells or rhabdome or 2 that the retinular cells are themselves ganglionic epidermal cells which send in nerve fibres to the retinular ganglion.
From the description which has preceded it is evident that the second of these dews is the one here held for the eye of the bee.
Before going into a detailed descripton of the nervous elements in the cells concerned let us first examine the problem.
In the first place it seems reasonable to assume that during the coiuse of the evolution of lightperceiving organs the first condition was that in which certain cells of the hypodermis became sensitive to light or possibly heat through the accumulation of pigment or some other change in the cytoplasm.
Such cells would arise before there were any cells in the central nervous system to receive their nerve stimuli and it may be assumed without danger that such cells would send in processes to the centrally placed nerve cells when the time for nerve connections arrived rather than that the nerves arose from the central nervous system.
In other words the peripheral nervous system is older than the central nervous system which elaborates the impulses and on hypothetical grounds a basis which is rather unsafe in zoology unless backed up by observations we may assume that the innervation is centrad.
From the standpoint of embryology we find that the eye epidermis is formed and even the ommatidia are differentiated before the retinal ganglion cells have assumed their adult position or are connected with the optic ganglia.
Not only that but the strands of cytoplasm which become the nerves of the ommatidia arise from the retinula cells and grow centrad.
In the adult condition we find that the nerve filjrcs are continuous with the cytoplasm of the retinula and run to the retinular gangUoii where they surround the nuclei of the ganghonic cells.
There is no indication of long nerve processes from the ganglion cells toward the eye.
The nervous elements of the retinular cell proper consist of a differentiated portion of the cytoplasm inside the clear area which lies outside the rhabdome.
This nerve fibre can be seen best in sections stained in iron hamatoxylin where it stains black.
From this fibre which starts at the distal end of the cell and runs parallel to the rhabdome smaller fibrils are given off which run into the rhabdome where they all end.
More properly speaking these fibrils are further differentiations of cytoplasm which lies between the main fibril and the centre of the retinula.
These fibrils extend from the fibre to the rhabdome along the whole length of the retinula proper so that the nerveendings are very numerous.
Below the basement membrane these main fibres can be traced as dark lines in the centre of the protoplasmic processes to the retinular ganglion.
All of these fibres are best seen on crosssections where they stand out as black dots but they can also be seen on longitudinal sections.
It is probable that the cause of the black color of the rhabdome in sections stained with iron hsematoxylin is the presence of these numerous nerve fibrils.
Concerning the distribution of these fibrils inside the rhabdome I am unable to say anything definite but they probably extend almost straight to the centre.
In material fixed in Kleinenberg's picrosulphuric fixing fluid the rhabdome sometimes appears as a tube and this may indicate that these fibrils do not run all the way to the centre.
While the innervation of the ommatidium is under discussion it might be stated that there is no indication of nervous connection with any of the other cells peripheral to the retinula.
The significance of the single retinular nucleus which lies at a lower level than the others of each ommatidium is somewhat hard to explain.
Hickson held that some of the retinular cells of Musca had more than one nucleus.
In this form there are three layers of nuclei in place of two as in Ayis.
Hesse on the contrary homologizes these lower nuclei only one of which is present in Apis with the proximal retinular cells of the apterygote insect eyes.
In these forms the retinula is divided into two parts one distal to the other each of which acts alone in the formation of rhabdome structure and both have nerve fibre connections with the optic ganglia.
A similar condition is found in some pterygote insect ommatidia.
Of these two views the one of Hesse seems more probable.
As Hickson sas there is nothing morphologically wrong with the supposition that certain cells are multinucleate but since the explanation of Hesse helps us to complete the homologies of the cells of the ommatidia of the various groups it seems to have more weight.
The question as to the method of modification in num.ber of retinular cells during the course of evolution is an interesting one but it must be admitted that as yet very little is known concerning it.
It seems not unlikely that the ommatidium of the bee is changing cither from eight to nine retinular cells or from nine to eight since it is rather rare for the number of these elements to be variable.
The thought has suggested itself that possibly this one proximal nucleus was one which was in the process of delamination from the ommatidial epidermis and was therefore tending toward a reduction of retinal elements but this does not seem to be as probable an explanation as that of Hesse.
It may be said however that Johansen describes the ommatidium of Vanessaas having seven retinular cells and two retinal ganglion cells while in Apis there is probably but one retinal ganglion cell to each ommatidium and at least one more cell in each retinula.
VH.
 Homologies of Component Parts.
The question of homologies of the various eyes of the invertebrates has excited much discussion but since only compound eyes have been investigated in this paper this problem will not be taken up here.
The question of the homology of the different kinds of compound eyes is worthy of consideration.
Such eyes occur in Crustacea and insects and a comparison of the groups indicates that there is here either uniformity of origin and plan or one of the most remarkable cases of convergence known in the animal kingdom.
The essential part of the ommatidium is the retinula and this may be considered as a sense bud formed by the accumulation of cells sensitive to light which has been modified internally to aid in light perception.
Since such groups of cells occur throughout the whole animal kingdom and associated with all the senses there is nothing remarkable about the similarity so far.
In addition to the retinula an ommatidium consists of a cone and a  No account of the socalled compound eyes of myriapods and arachnids is taken here since their plan is so different that they cannot readily be homologized with those of crustaceans or insects.
Until we know more of the comparative embryology of these forms it may be as well to suspend judgment.
I do not feel qualified to include these in the present discussion but evidently from the researches of numerous investigators we may conclude that the homology is not as close as in the forms under discussion.
chitinous covering which may be faceted and possibly accessory cells occur between ommatidia which act as pigment cells.
In order that the light rays may be centred on the retinular nerve fibres some refractive organ must be present above it the cone and the whole organ must be covered by chitin as is the rest of the body.
This chitin in turn may assist in the refraction as it does in many cases or may even secondarily assume the functions of the cone entirely if no cone substance is differentiated aconc eyes.
For the occurrence of these parts there are but two explanations either they are differentiations of cells which formerly lay outside the retinula group and have been placed distal to it to assist in collecting light rays to form a more perfect image or they have been placed distal to the retinula by the differentiation of some other cell layer which has been superimposed.
The various cells of the ommatidium seem to lend themselves to homologies very readily.
The retinula of the various ommatidia are groups of cells which are the nerve endings of the eye and all ommatidia agree in this respect.
Retinula of apterygote insects some Crustacea and a few pterygote insects have two layers of retinular cells while others have but one but as was pointed out for Apis the position of nuclei at different levels in the higher insects may indicate a remnant of a former twolayered condition for these retinulse also.
In other words the morphological invagination by which the insect eye has arisen may be carried farther in some cases than in others.
Hickson has shown that acone pseudocone and eucone cones are probably homologous and the fact that some cones are composed of but two cells while others have four seems a matter of small moment.
The probable homology of the corneal hypodermal cells of apterygote insects and Crustacea with the corneal pigment cells of most pterygote insects has been dwelt on sufficiently and is held on comparative anatomical grounds by Hesse.
The accessory pigment cells are undoubtedly but undifferentiated cells of the layer of epidermis from wliich the retinulae arise and their presence or absence is of small importance in homologizing the different ommatidia.
The fact also that mesodermal cells may migrate to a position between ommatidia as is held for some eyes is also of small consequence.
As far then as the component parts of the ommatidia are concerned there is no difficulty about establishing a very close homology and this similarity is considerably strengthened by showing that the corneal pigment cells are not only similar in function to the corneal hypodermal cells but that at an early stage they actually occupy the same position.
The whole question seems then to be one which must be settled from embryological evidence.
The problem is which of the two methods of formation previously mentioned is the method which actually exists in ontogeny and are all compound eyes formed by the same method
From this work on Apis and that of Johansen on Vanessait is evident that the differentiation of cells outside the retinula to form cone and lens layers is what occurs in insects and the whole question hinges on the development of the crustacean eye.
Reichenbach and Kingsley describe the eye as arising by an invagination and if either of these investigators is right although they differ as to the fate of the three layers formed then the compound eyes of these crustacean.s are not homologous with the compound eyes of iasects.
On the other hand Herrick insists that the compound eye of Alpheus arises from a single layer of epidermis and according to this view the homology holds.
Herrick's view that even if an invagination does occur it is of no importance does not seem tenable for if an invagination occurs then cone and retinula do not come from contiguous cells and that I beheve to be a matter of great importance.
From the striking similarity in position and function of the parts of the ommatidium and from the observations of Herrick we are safe in concluding that the eyes of the various groups under consideration are distinctly homologous and there must be some other explanation for the invaginations observed by the other writers mentioned.
The interpretation of the formation of the ommatidium which is held from an examination of the eye of Apis makes possible a very close homology of the elements of the compound eye with the ocelli of insects such as was held by Grenadier and this homology seems materially strengthened since an homology can be shown between the corneal pigment cells of insect ommatidia with the chitinsecreting cells of the ocelli.
An objection that might be raised is that the vitreous body of the ocellus arises from cells which are all to one side of the retina rather than from all sides but since they are adjoining cells this might be a secondary change.
From sections of ocelli of the pupae of the bee which have been examined it is evident that the middle ocellus arises from a double invagination indicating a fusion of two organs while the lateral ocelli arise from single invaginations.
VIII.
 Summary.
The primitive arrangement of ommatidia is tetragonal p. 130.
The hairs over the lens are secreted by binucleated hair cells with intracellular ducts which lie between the ommatidia p. 131.
The ommatidium arises as a group of cells with superimposed nuclei which later become arranged as a spindle surrounded by smaller cells p. 136.
This spindle is the retinula and the cone cells and pigment cells assume a distal position by a morphological invagination p. 137.
The retinula is the centre of the ommatidium and the cone cells corneal pigment cells and outer pigment cells follow in the order named p. 141.
The ommatidium is composed of eight or nine retinula cells around the rhabdome four cone cells two corneal pigment cells and about tv.elve outer pigment cells p. 126.
The rhabdome and cone arc intracellular secretions while the lens is an extracellular secretion of the pigment cells p. 144.
The corneal pigment cells are homologous with the corneal hypodermal cells of crustacean and apterygote insect ommatidia p. 147.
The innervation of the ommatidium is by a differentiation of part of the retinular cells into nerve fibrils and these extend to the retinular ganglia p. 149.
The lens is secreted by the corneal pigment cells which early in the pupa stage lie distal to the cone and possibly also by the outer pigment cells p. 148.
Pigment is formed inside all the cells of the ommatidium except the cone cells by a cytoplasmic differentiation p. 149.
The ommatidium arises from a strictly onelayered epidermis which passes directly from the larva to the pupa without the loss of any cells or additions from other tissues p. 136.
Literature.
Balfour F. I.
1881.
.4.
Treatise on Comparatire Embryology II London.
BtJTSCHLi O.
1870.
Zur Entwicklungsgeschichte der Biene.
Zeit.
f. Wiss.
Zool.
XX pp.
519564.
Carriere J.
1884.
On the Eves of Some Invertebrates.
Qt.
Jr. Micr.
Sc XXIV New Series pp.
67381.
1885.
Die Sehorgane der Thiere vergleichend anatomisch dargestellt.
Miinchen und Leipzig R. Oldenbourg 6  205 pp.
1885.
Einiges iiber die Seliorgane von Arthropoden.
Biol.
Centralbl. V No.
19 pp.
58997.
1886.
Kurze Mittheilungen aus fortgesetzten Untersuchungen uber die Sehorgane.
Zool.
Anz. IX Nos.
217 and 230.
Fernald H. T. 1890.
The Relationships of Arthropods.
Studies Biol.
Lab.
Johns Hopkins Univ. IV pp.
431513.
Grenacher H. 1874.
Zur Morphologie und Phjsiologie des facettirten Arthropodenauges.
Gottingen Nachrichten pp.
64556.
1877.
Untersuchungen uber das Artnropoden.'Vuge.
Beilageheft zu den kJinischen Monatsbldttern filr Augenheilkunde XV.
1889.
Untersuchungen iiber das Sehorgan der Arthropoden insbesonder des Spinnen Insecten und Crustaceen.
Gottingen Vanderhoeck und Ruprecht S  1S8 pp. 11 Taf.
Herrick F. H. 1889.
The Development of the Compound Eye of Alpheus.
Zool.
Anz. XII pp.
1649.
Hesse Rich.
1901.
Untersuchungen uber die Organe den Lichtempfindung bei niederen Thieren.
VII Von den ArthropodenAugen.
Zeit.
.
iviss.
Zool. LXX pp.
348473.
HicKSON S. J.
1884.
The Eye and Optic Tract of Insects.
Qt.
Jr. Mic.
Sac No.
98.
1885.
The Retina of Insects.
Nature XXXI pp.
4412.
JoHANSEN H. 1893.
Die Entwicklung des Imagoauges von Vanessaurticse L. Zool.
Jahrhilch VI pp.
44580.
Kenyon F. 1896.
The Brain of the Bee.
Jr. Comp.
Neuroloqii VI pp.
133210.
1897.
The Optic Lobes of the Bee's Brain in the Light of Recent Neurological Methods.
Am.
Nat. XXXI pp.
36976.
KiNGSLEY J.
8.
1886.
The Arthropod Eye.
Am.
Nat. XX pp.
8627.
1886.
The Development of the Compound Eye of Crangon.
Zool.
Anz. IX No.
234 pp.
597600.
1887.
The Development of the Compound Eye of Crangon.
Jr.
Morph. I No.
1 pp.
4966.
Leydig F. 1855.
Zum feineren Bau der Arthropoden.
Arch.
f.
Anal. Physiol u. loiss.
Med. pp.
376480.
1864.
Das Auge der Gliederthiere.
Tubingen Laupp und Siebeck 50 pp.
LowNE Thompson B.
1878.
On the Modifications of the Simple and Compound Eyes of Insects.
1884.
On the Compound Vision and the Morphology of the Eye of Insects.
Trans.
Linn.
Soc. London.
Parker G. H. 1891.
The Compound Eyes in Crustaceans.
Bull.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool.
Harvard Univ. XXI No.
2 pp.
45140 10 plates.
Patten William.
1886.
Eyes of Molluscs and Arthropods.
Mitth.
Zool.
Stat.
Neapel VI pp.
542756.
1887.
Studies on the Eyes of Arthropods.
I.
Development of the Eyes of Vespa
Jr.
Morph. I pp.
193226.
1890.
Is the Ommatidium a Hairbearing Sensebud
Anat.
Anz. V Nos.
13 14 pp.
3539.
Reichenbach H. 1886.
tudien zur Entwickelungsgeschichte des Flusskrebses.
 Frankfurt.
Watase S. 1889.
On the Structure and Development of the Eyes of the Limulus.
Johns Hopkins Univ.
Circ. VIII No.
79 pp.
347.
1890.
On the Morphology of the Compound Eves of Arthropods.
Studies Biol.
Lab.
Johns Hopkins Univ. IV No.
6 pp.
287334.
WiLLEM V. 1897.
Les yeux et les organes postantennaires des CoUeniboles.
Ann.
Soc.
entomol.
de Belgique XLI p. 225.
Abbreviations.
I. lens.
c. p. c corneal pigment cell.
0. p. c outer pigment cell.
6. m. basement inembrane.
1. ret.
n. lower retinular nucleus.
ch. chitin.
.
h. facet boundary.
ret.
gang n. nucleus of retinular ganglion far.
sh. brain sheath.
int.
d. intracellular duct.
c. c crystalline cone.
rhb. rhabdome.
ret. retinula.
pgm. pigment.
n. nucleus.
h. c hair cell.
tr. trachea.
n.
. nerve fibre.
Explanation of Plates VI VII VIII.
Plate VI Fig.
1.
 Section of entire eye and optic lobes.
The heavy lines show the course of the nerve fibres as worked out by Kenyon diagrammatic .
Plate VII Fig.
2.
 Ommatidium of young pupa before rhabdome is differentiated and at time of first pigmentation of retinula cells.
Fig.
3.
 Ommatidium of older pupa showing differentiation of rhabdome and lens formation.
Fig.
4.
 Crosssection through distal end of cone of pupa of same age as fig.
2 showing corneal pigment cells.
Fig.
5.
 Crosssection through cone of older pupa.
Fig.
6.
 Crosssection through proximal end of cone of pupa same stage as figs.
3 and 5.
Fig.
7.
 Crosssection through cone of young pupa.
Fig.
8.
 Crosssection through retinula of young pupa before rhabdome formation.
Fig.
9.
 Crosssection through distal end of retinula of young pupa showing first traces of pigment.
Plate VIII Fig.
10.
 Entire ommatidium somewhat diagrammatic.
Adult.
Fig.
11.
 Entire ommatidium as if dissected out without outer pigment cells diagrammatic.
Adult.
Fig.
12.
 Section of entire ommatidium showing distribution of pigment.
Adult.
Fig.
13.
 Crosssection just proximal to lens slightly oblique.
Fig.
14.
 Crosssection through extreme distal ends of retinulse and proximal ends of cones slightly oblique.
Fig.
15.
 Crosssection through retinulse showing relation of outer pigment cells in tliis region.
Fig.
16.
 Crosssection through retinula in region of nuclei.
Fig.
17.
 Crosssect'on through retinulse in region of proximal nucleus.
Fig.
18. Crosssection of eye cutting basement membrane parallel.
Tlie' distinctness of nerve fibres of each ommatidium is shown.
CCELOSPORIDIUM BLATTELL A NEW SPOROZOAN PARASITE OF BLATTELLA GERMANICA.
Preliminary Note.
BY HOWARD CRAWLEY.
The Malpighian tubules of the socalled Croton bug BlatteUa gcrmanica L. are the habitat of a Sporozoan parasite which apparently belors to the Haplosporidia.
This group which has the value of an order is divided into several rather poorly defined genera.
The animal herewith described does not fit very well into the present scheme of classification but for the sake of avoiding a needless multiplication of names I shall accredit it to the genus Coslosporidium Mesnil and Marchoux.
The creation of a new species is warranted whereupon for the time being the animal may be known as Ccelosporidlum hlcUtellce sp.
n. The life cycle so far as I have yet been able to trace it originates as a minute cell of strongly acidophil cytoplasm containing several granules of chromatin.
These granules which range around one micron in diameter appear to have the value of nuclei and they will be so termed in the description which follows.
At first the cell or to follow the terminology suggested by Minchin the trophozoite is generally somewhat longer than broad and lies with its longer axis across the lumen of the tubule .
The shape may be as shown in either fig.
1 or 2.
One end lies against and is apparently attached to the lumen of the tubule.
I have not been able however to determine the exact nature of this attachment.
Neither in fixed nor fresh preparations were there ever seen any processes such as those of the epimerites of polycystid gregarines Pj J or the inert pseudopodia of Ophryocystis.
The attachment seems merely to be a close apposition and there is no objection to so regarding it.
For in consideration of the narrow lumina of the tubules and the lack of fluid currents passing through them the parasite is in little danger of being carried away.
Certain appearances however suggest that the maintainance of the usual position is aided by the presence of an amorphous substance which lies between the parasite and the host cell.
It is often impossible in the case of those small closely applied forms to get a sharp line of demarkation between the sporozoan and the epithelium the one blending with the other by imperceptible degrees.
However this may be the juxtaposition of the parasite and the cell is evidently of no great importance to the former.
Ordinarily the smaller undeveloped stages are attached and the later stages free.
The reverse may however be observed and the matter is evidently one largely of chance.
By a uniform growth in all directions the trophozoite becomes an egg or potatoshaped organism reaching a length of around 20 microns.
This however is to be noticed only in the free individuals and where the spatial relations are favorable.
More usually the lumina of the tubules are so small and so closely crowded with the parasites that the latter are constrained to assume a vermiform or platelike shape.
Thus fig.
2 which is the longitudinal section of an indivdiual with a circular crosssection would answer equally well for the crosssection of an individual extending for some distance along the tubule cells.
Both these elongated or flattened individuals as well as the eggshaped forms mentioned above may still retain the primitive character of being naked masses of uniform cytoplasm with a various number of solid nuclei.
Generally however the reproductive cycle is inaugurated while the organism is still very small.
The first indicajrjg 2. tions of this are furnished by the nuclei.
These lose their spherical form and their solidity.
They may become either somewhat irregular masses or else rings.
The elements are so minute that the determination is difficult but from what takes place later these early phenomena are apparently the expression of the lreaking up of the nucleus into extremely small chromosomes.
Simultaneously there arises around each nucleus a vacuole which in its turn can often be seen to be surrounded by a condensed belt of cytoplasm.
These are the first steps in the breaking up of the trophozoite into separate elements and from this point on development may progress along either one of two lines.
In the one case the .result is the production of what I shall call the round bodies.
In the other the process is clearly sporeformation.
I have not yet succeeded in satisfactorily differentiating these two developmental courses in their 160 Feb. Fig.
3. earlier stages and the detailed account will be reserved for my final communication.
I shall here merely consider the latest stages in each case.
Fig.
2 shows an acidophil cell still attached to the epithelium.
Within it are several clear areas.
Each of these is occupied by a quantity of chromatin.
In several cases the manner in which this chromatin is arranged is strongly indicative of mitotic division.
In fig.
3 is shown what may be called a cyst of the round bodies.
The original trophozoite consists of a shell divided into irregularly shaped compartments.
Each compartment contains a completed round body.
The round body is normally spherical  occasionally ellipsoidal.
It usually consists of a solid mass of strongly acidophil cytoplasm containing an irregular nucleus.
That the element shown in fig.
3 is derived from that of fig.
2 is indicated by the striking resemblance between the nuclei and by their size.
In the stage of fig.
2 the nuclei are in division and are thus as is usual lying within clear regions.
To obtain the conditions shown in fig.
3 it is only necessary to conceive the collection of the cytoplasm around the nuclei with the consequent disappearance of the vacuoles.
A little later by the complete disintegration of the cyst the round bodies come to lie free in the lumina of the tubules.
They are minute elements ranging in diameter from H2 microns.
There is probably a very delicate ectosarc or membrane since at times the cytoplasm Is wanting the chromatin lying within an otherwise empty shell.
The ultimate destiny of these bodies has not yet been discovered.
The formation of the spores follows much the same general lines but differs considerably in detail.
The nuclei after passing through the stage of individual chromosomes concentrate into rings ovals or the socalled dumbbell shape figs.
4 and 5.
Frequently they may become wholly solid masses of chromatin but more usually they show a central cavity or in the case of those having the dumbbell shape two such cavities.
Around this cliromatin mass there is nearly always a clear space while the bulk of the spore consists of a thick shell of acidophil cytoplasm fig.
5.
Occasionally the clear space encroaches upon 1905.
161 the cytoplasmic mass which may thus become a thin shell or even wholly wanting at the two ends of the spore.
There is an evident Fig.
5. membrane or shell in the mature spore the average length of which is 5 microns.
The reason for regarding these bodies as spores is the fact that they occur in the alimentary canal of the host both before and behind the openings of the Malpighian tubules.
In the former position they were seen to lie close against the epithelial cells but none of my material showed any of them en route to entrance.
Perhaps the most striking phenomenon exhibited by this parasite is the abundance wdth which it occurs.
Fig.
6 shows the crosssection of a tubule wherein the parasites come near to occluding the entire lumen.
This is a quite characteristic condition.
It would seem that so complete a blocking up of the tubule should produce disturbances in the economy of the host.
Yet the tubule epithelium was throughout to all appearances wholly normal.
Fig.
6.
11 THE SPERMATOGENESIS OF SYRBULA AND LYCOSA WITH GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS UPON CHROMOSOME REDUCTION AND THE HETEROCHROMOSOMES.
BY THOMAS H. MONTGOMERY JR.
The present paper presents observations on the spermatogenesis of Syrhula a grasshopper and of Lycosa a spider together withsome broader conclusions in regard to questions of the behavior of the chromosomes during the maturation mitoses and of the nature of those modified nuclear elements which have been termed by me heterochromosomes.
The subject of heredity which in its broadest sense includes most of the problems of the phenomena of life is being pursued from two main lines from that of the study of the germ cells and from that of an analysis of the results of cross breeding.
The actual steps of the process of heredity if we shall ever understand them will be learned by the first method by the investigation of the energies of those cells which transmit ancestral traits.
The second method is of less importance than the first for while it may permit an analysis of the proportional transmission of different ancestral traits it can in no way elucidate the steps of this process for the very reason that its material basis is the terminal stage alone and the somatic condition at that.
And of all cellular investigations those that concern themselves with the nuclear chromosomes seem to penetrate deepest into the mysteries of the problem for these cellular components more than all others seem proven to be the centres of hereditary energies can we unlock their secrets we will have opened the door to the light for there seems to be no other portal.
The study of the chromosomes has ceased to be regarded as an academic question or as a mere side issue of problems of cell division and is slowly but surely coming into the centre of the field of biological thought  of that thought which embraces the broader community of natural phenomena and docs not lose sight of the forest for the trees.
All things are in the nature of processes to the biologist of genetic processes and of the dtal changes heredity is the one that is the most comprehensive broadly speaking biology is the study of heredity.
There arc two methods used in the search for the solution the morphological and the experimental.
The former reasons out the process as it is to be understood from the sequence in structural change  the latter aims directly at an analysis of the process by a study of result where the cause is measurable.
Yet just here it must be held in mind that the true morphologLst has in ultimate consideration the explanation of process so that he is fully as much a physiologist as the other.
And his method is correct because structure only is visible while process is an intangible change and therefore he is reasoning from the perceptible to the imperceptible.
Many morphologists do not conceive this mental attitude rightly and most physiologists are inclined to hold that all morphologists see no further than the structure.
Yet the morphological basis must precede the physiological experiment and it is quite questionable whether both will not always be necessary as complemental methods  we cannot say which wll ultimately prove the more important but all will admit that the greater interpretations of biology have had a morphological basis and that the morphologist has done his full half in reasoning out the processes.
That is not scientific morphology which goes no further than the structural fact but with minor exceptions all morphologists try to go much further than this and throughout their analyses have in mind the process.
And the morphologist is an analyst of natural phenomena an explainer of those normal experiments not performed within the laboratory.
Therefore a present tendency to maintain that only experiment can furnish explanations and that structural study can present only observational results has no foundation whatsoever.
The true method is to remember always that in the living as in the nonliving world the process must be interpreted  so long as this is not forgotten it matters little what mould the investigation is cast in.
Some years of rather intensive study of the structure of the germ cells particularly of the behavior of their chromosomes has led me to the conclusion that there is simplicity and essential uniformity among the bewildering maze of the observable.
When we strive to explain the more complex from the more simple we discover this uniformity but not when we stubbornly persist in regarding the more complex as the condition that can be immediately explained.
Complete agreement of opinion there may never be but this is because of mental differences and not of lack of uniformity in the natural processes.
A main reason for the failure to interpret the uniformity has come from one of three preconceptions  of persistent study of an object which has shown itself incapable of furnishing a clear solution consequently of the neglect of seeking comparative evidence  and of loyalty to the views of the first workers in the field or fear of conflict with them.
In common law a man is held innocent until he is proven guilty but in scientific thought we should consider a view erroneous until it is proven to be correct to fact.
That view which presents phenomena from the simplest interpretation which is based upon the broadest comparative series of facts and above all.
which admits of no exceptions in natural sequence is the one which in the end has the greatest probability of maintaining itself because the one most likely to be congruous with the facts.
1.
 Spermatogenesis of Syrbula acuticornis Bruner.
Testes of adults of this Acridid were collected at Austin Texas in the middle of October fixed in Flemrm'ng's stronger fluid and stained with iron hsematoxyline.
For the identification of the species I am indebted to Mr. James A. G. Rehn of the Academj of Natural Sciences Philadelphia.
A considerable number of testes were sectioned and studied whence it resulted that some of them contained ten bivalent chromosomes in the first spermatocytes others twelve.
I cannot determine whether this is due to Syrbula acuticornis being a form including more than one species or whether it is a single species with individual variation in the number of the chromosomes the latter alternative would be in contradiction to the condition maintaining in most species.
Because this point could not be explained and because good proof is necessary to establish the occurrence of indiadual variation in the number of chromosomes the following description is limited to cells contained in the testes of one individual.
Work has been done previously upon the spermatogenesis of Acrididse by Wilcox 1895 McClung 1900 and Sutton 1900 1902.
My results are in essential agreement with those of McClung except with regard to the time of the reduction division.
Carnoy 1885 was the first to describe cell divisions of male germ cells in Acrididse and figured in detail spermatogonial mitoses.
As in the Hemiptera each testis is composed of long tubular follicles but they are more numerous in number the earlier stages of the sperm cells placed at the proximal end of the follicle and the later stages at successively following regions of the follicle.
As far as I have noticed there is no difference between the cells of different follicles beyond a dimensional one.
Two generations of spermatogonia are found in the mature testis the smaller of which is the last generation and by division forms the first spermatocytes.
The intermediate body or cellplate ZivischenJcorper of the German writers persists for a long while after the division of the penultimate generation of spermatogonia even up to the prophases of the last spermatogonic mitosis.
Accordingly the rest stage of the last generation of spermatogonia Plate IX fig.
1 shows a distinct polarity of the cellbody with a distal pole at which is the persisting cellplate and a dark mass of idiozome substance which appears to be in part at least derived from the connective fibrils of the preceding mitosis and an opposite or central pole containing the nucleus.
The nucleus shows minute chromatin globules distributed in beadlike chains along the linin fibrils and also accumulated in larger masses.
With great regularity there is found also in each nucleus two or three larger somewhat irregular deepstaining bodies  whether they are nucleoli or heterochromosomes cOuld not be decided by the use of the iron hsematoxyline stain.
The prophases of the last and penultimate spermatogonic mitoses appear similar in character.
The chromatin seems to arrange itself into a continuous spirem or if not into one thread certainly into but a small number of very long threads.
Plate IX figs.
26 illustrate a succession of the later prophases and all show stages of segmentation of the spirem.
Fig.
2 shows a pair of minute centrosomes just external to the idiozome body and figs.
3 and 5 successive stages of the central spindle  the nuclear membrane commences to dissolve first in the vicinity of the central spindle.
The only point deserving particular comment in the stages is a chromatin element marked A.
2 in the figures that is found in every cell  it is a portion of the chromatin spirem of smaller diameter than the other segments much more convoluted and in such a manner as to represent a small corkscrew and frequently appearing to be enclosed within its peculiar membrane.
It resembles in this respect the accessory chromosome described by Sutton 1900 for the spermatogonia of Brachystola.
It is an element that appears to be retarded in its stages on comparison with the others not condensing nor segmenting as rapidly as they do.
When the nuclear membrane has completely dissolved away this single loop segments into two which are still to be distinguished from other chromosomes of the same length by narrower diameter and more spiral form.
These two chromosomes resulting from the division of the single convoluted element are probably the heterochromosomes which become much better demonstrable in the spermatocytes  for the heterochromosomes of the spermatocytes differ from the other chromosomes in their behavior as will be shown and this pair in the spermatogonia behave at first differently from the others.
Because these heterochromosomes are demonstrable in such early spermatogonic prophases we can conclude that they must be present in the rest stage of the nucleus though merely in the form of constituents of the chromatin reticulum.
And their juxtaposition in the chromatin spirem is a point in evidence of an earher contention of mine 1900 1904a that in the chromatin spirem of spermatogonia homologous chromosomes i.e. such as unite into pairs during the consequent synapsis stage lie next each other.
All the chromosomes become longitudinally split during the prophases.
Two clear pole views were found of the spermatogonic monaster stage metaphase  Plate IX figs.
7 and 8.
Each showed exactly twenty chromosomes.
These occur in pairs and we can distinguish three largest pairs A a B b C c and three smallest in succession from the largest to the smallest F f D. d E e.
The exact similarity in form and size of the members of a pair does not evince itself so clearly in a camera drawing as in the study of the chromosomes themselves because the members of a pair usually do not lie exactly in the same plane.
So twelve of the twenty chromosomes can be demonstrated to form six pairs  the remaining eight chromosomes are so nearly of the same size and form that their arrangement into pairs cannot be shown but by analogy with the others it is probable they constitute a series of four pairs.
One pair of the latter four probably corresponds to the pair of heterochromosomes found in the prophases but their earlier peculiarity of convoluted shape no longer persists so they offer no means for recognition.
The spermatogonia accordingly contain each two heterochromosomes and eighteen ordinary chromosomes.
All these chromatin elements were longitudinally split and became so placed upon the spindle Plate IX fig.
9 that the daughter chromosomes separate along the line of this split fig.
10 shows an early anaphase.
Fig.
11 is a pole view of one of the two first spermatocytes resulting from this division and shows exactly twenty chromosomes.
Therefore the first spermatocyte receives a half of each of the two heterochromosomes and of each of the eighteen ordinary chromosomes.
In each first spermatocyte daughter cell of the last spermatogonic division the nucleus commences to reconstitute itself fig.
12 The nuclear membrane reasserts itself the chromosomes commence to elongate and take on more irregular contours  but an interesting phenomenon is that two of the chromosomes n. 2 fig.
13 do not undergo these changes but remain smooth and dense these are heterochromosomes and in all probability identical with those in the spermatogonia.
At a later stage fig.
14 these unite to form a single bivalent heterochromosome n. 2 and they retain this condition up to the time of the first maturation mitosis.
The other chromosomes have become long and threadhke and an irregular nucleolus A''.
has appeared.
Following the stages of figs.
14 and 15 is reached a complete rest stage fig.
16 with the chromatin globules finely distributed along the linin threads  the nucleus very similar in appearance to that of spermatogonia in the rest stage except for the presence of the large heterochromosome.
A rest stage preceding the synapsis I have never before found in any object but it has been described for Ascaris and certain other forms.
The heterochromosome is still nearly straight and when viewed from the proper angle shows not only a transverse constriction marking the point of junction of the two univalent ones but also a longitudinal split in each of the latter figs.
15 16.
In later stages of the spermatocyte these characteristics of the heterochromosome cannot be distinguished and from a study of the later stages alone one might easily be misled to the conclusion that the heterochromosome of the spermatocyte were a univalent element.
Next the chromatin reticulum segregates into short loops very much convoluted and occasionally simulating longitudinal splittings Plate IX figs.
17 18.
But a long study of cells in this period shows that the space between two mutually wound loops is not a longitudinal split and that the latter i.e. a splitting into two of each chromatin globule along the length of a loop rarely ever commences so early.
On the contrary the double loops represent pairs of univalent and correspondent homologous chromosomes so that this stage is the commencement of the conjugation into pairs of the eighteen ordinary chromosomes this becomes the more obvious on comparison with subsequent conditions.
Now also the heterochromosome commences to bend at an angle at its middle point on its path from the earlier straight form to its later one of a nearly closed V. This leads the chromosomes becoming much longer Plate IX fig.
19 to the synapsis stage figs.
2022  throughout this stage the nuclear membrane is almost or quite imperceptible and the chromatin loops in the form of irregular U's and V's crowded most densely at that nuclear pole the distal next the greatest amount of cytoplasm.
In all the drawings only a few of these loops are shown mainly those seen distinctly for their entire length.
Their relative lengths differ greatly in size as is to be seen particularly in fig.
21 .
Each such loop is a bivalent chromosome for they are nine in number corresponding to the nine pairs of ordinary chromosomes of the spermatogonia and therefore each arm of one is a univalent chromosome.
Two univalent chromosomes are usually united only by one end that marked x in fig.
21  but sometimes the opposite ends also are joined elongated rings resulting instead of other forms.
The space between the two arms of such a bivalent chromosome does not represent a longitudinal split but the area between two entire bivalent chromosomes.
The true longitudinal split becomes apparent as a cleavage of the small chromatin masses forming each univalent chromosome and is a line of chromatin separation within each univalent chromosome sometimes it cannot be seen which is due to the chromosome being viewed from the edge.
This is the first and only longitudinal split of the chromosomes from the time of first formation of the spermatocytes up to the stage of the spermatid.
No trace of a longitudinal split can longer be seen in the heterochromosome which now has in most cases the form of two nearly parallel rods produced by the bending at the middle of the original straight one.
This synapsis stage corresponds to the similarly named stage of the Hemiptera in the close massing of the chromosomes near one pole of the nucleus but we have seen that the conjugation of the chromosomes becomes affected at an earlier period that of the figs.
17 and 18.
There is evidence that in Syrbula as I have shown to be the case in Peripatus there is a continuous linin spirem during the synapsis stage  but at no period of the first spermatocyte is there a continuous chromatin spirem.
The splitting of the chromatin globules does not occur simultaneously for all composing a chromosome but rather successively and each globule or granule is a mass of demonstrable smaller microsomes.
Hence there is no proof that each smallest visible microsome divides into two during the longitudinal splitting of a chromosome.
Then comes a postsynapsis stage in which the chromosomes are no longer densely grouped and when the longitudinal split is very clear.
In figs.
23 and 24 illustrating this stage only three and four respectively of the nine bivalent chromosomes are drawn  and the point x on each marks the linin band connecting every two univalent chromosomes.
Very rarely does the longitudinal split become wider than shown in these figures but sometimes it wddens as much as is shown in the largest chromosome of fig.
25.
This was the maximum extent of separation seen of the halves of a split univalent chromosome and from this stage through the following this split narrows gradually.
Unlike most of the Hemiptera no rest stage follows but the spermatocytes enter immediately upon the prophases of the first maturation mitosis successive steps of this process are shown in figs.
2731.
The nucleus enlarges the chromosomes lie close to its wall the delicate linin fibres change their character and break each into a row of minute 169 globules as roughly indicated in fig.
29 this last phenomenon I have found to be of general occurrence in spermatocytes but it has been investigated most in ovocytes.
The chromosomes through these stages shorten and condense some into bent or straight rods others into more or less closed rings the surface of the chromosomes remains rough and somewhat filamentous until the nuclear membrane disappears compare fig.
30 with fig.
31.
The longitudinal split of the chromosomes gradually narrows as one sees in the series of figures 2325 and 2730 it does not widen out so that the relations of tlie univalent components of a bivalent chromosome remain approximately the same as in preceding stages.
The early bivalent U or V of the synapsis period may become a straight dumbbell or its univalent arms may become apposed along their length or it may become a ring but in all cases the position of the longitudinal split is along the length of each univalent chromosome whether that be straight or bent figs.
27 28 30.
Very rarely have the chromosomes an Xshape fig.
31.
Therefore each bivalent chromosome is composed of two univalent chromosomes joined by one end or by both ends in the case of rings and the space enclosed by a ring is not a longitudinal split but the area separating two entire univalent chromosomes.
Wliere the two univalent chromosomes of a pair are connected is in most cases marked by a constriction x figs.
27 29 and in the rings there may be two such constrictions the larger ring of fig.
29 in accordance with the conjunction in these cases of both ends.
These chromosomes are thus essentially in formation and shape like those of the Hemiptera and Peripatus each represents two longitudinally split univalent chromosomes joined by one or both ends.
And the gradual narrowing or closure of the longitudinal split is as evident and undeniable as in any other object studied by me.
Through these prophases the heterochromosome is recognizable by its smooth contour and compact structure Plate IX n. 2 figs.
2730.
It is now almost always in the form of a rod so bent that both arms lie contiguous and parallel as shown in fig.
26 where the arm seen on high focus is stippled and that seen on deeper focus drawn in outline only.
Each of its arms as we have seen represents a univalent heterochr mosome.
With the disappearance of the nuclear membrane which commences to dissolve away first at the poles near the centrosomes Plate IX fig.
31 the chromosomes have attained their completed dense structure and smooth outline and take their position within the equatorial plate figs.
3234 .
There are exactly ten bivalent chromosomes present onehalf the mimler of univalent chromosomes present in the spermatogonia namely one bivalent heterochromosome and nine bivalent ordinary chromosomes.
But at this stage there seems not to be possible a positive recognition of which is the heterochromosome.
In a number of cases after nine of the chromosomes were arranged in the equator and some of them were beginning to divide fig.
33 one y had not yet taken up that position but lay nearer one spindle pole than the other.
This was the case e.g. with four cells in exactly the same stage lying in the same section of one testicular follicle and in all of these the isolated chromosome was of the same size and form straight and appearing to consist of two closely apposed arms.
It may be that this chromosome is the heterochromosome with which it agrees in general form and size but this could not be definitely determined  ultimately it takes a position in the equator and divides with the others.
In fig.
32 is an element y closely corresponding in size with it and with the heterochromosome during the prophases but I cannot say positively that y of fig.
32 is the heterochromosome though the probability of it is evident.
All these chromosomes become so placed in the spindle that mantle fibres from one spindle pole are attached to one univalent element and mantle fibres from the other spindle pole to the other univalent component of each bivalent chromosome.
The longitudinal split can no longer be seen but previously it lay in the axis of each univalent chromosome.
These definitive chromosomes may be dumbbellshaped or as frequently irregularly Vshaped ringshaped or in the form of twQ parallel rods Plate IX figs.
3133 Plate X fig.
34.
But whatever the form they become arranged so in the spindle that the point or points of junction of the univalent components of each lies in the equatorial plane.
The early formation of these chromosomes their arrangement in the spindle then their division Plate X figs.
3436 show that the first maturation mitosis is a reduction division and separates from each other the univalent chromosomes of each pair.
There is no evidence that this is an equation division taking place along the line of the longitudinal split  no evidence at any period that a chromosome had become elongated in a line at right angles to its original long axis.
Each arm of a bivalent chromosome is a whole univalent chromosome and not a split half of one  and the long axis of each arm is in the same line as its long axis at earlier stages.
I have tested the morphological evidence of this process very honestly and fairly for at the commencement of my study I was quite prepared to find the first maturation mitosis an equation division.
But it is a reduction division.
The didsion of certain of the chromosomes may call for some fmther explanation.
Next to the straight or slightly bent dumbbellshaped bivalent chromosomes the most frequent form is that of an irregular V such as those lettered K in Plate IX figs.
32 and 33 in each of these figm'cs one univalent half of each such chromosome is shown black and the other white p of fig.
32 is such a chromosome seen at right angles to the other views.
K of Plate X fig.
34 shows the separation of the components of such a chromosome.
The division of one of the forms of y of Plate IX fig.
32 is shown bj y in Plate X fig.
34.
The division of the dumbbellshaped chromosomes is clear from the figures.
Whereas ringshaped chromosomes are frequent in the preceding late prophases they are only very exceptionally found in the equatorial plate so that probably by the pull of the mantle fibres upon them these rings change into the form of the chromosomes lettered K. In the anaphase of this reduction division as homologous univalent chromosomes move apart from each other each opens up in the form of a V Plate X figs.
3537.
This opening is the reappearance of the longitudinal split since it is a cleft along the long axis of each univalent chromosome.
In no way can it be considered a transverse split a space between two whole univalent chromosomes.
This split is widest and appears first at the end of the chromosome turned toward the equatorial plane and rarely extends quite through the opposite end.
Vertical fig.
38 and obliquely lateral fig.
37 views of a daughter plate of chromosomes i.e. of the chromosome plate of a second spermatocyte show without exception ten elements the same as the number in the first spermatocytes accordingly all the chromosomes divide in the reduction mitosis.
But each of the ten elements of the second spermatocyte is univalent instead of bivalent and its cleft or constriction marks the longitudinal split.
Witnout any indication of a rest stage the centrosomes of each second spermatocyte wander apart from each other and each through an angle of 90 so that the axis of the second maturation spindle comes to lie at right angles to that of the first fig.
39.
In the equator of this spindle each of the ten chromosomes becomes so placed that the fine of its longitudinal split coincides with the equatorial plane.
In the ensuing anaphase occurs then an equatorial division separation from each other of longitudinal halves of univalent chromosomes.
All ten chromosomes divide and a pole view of one of the resulting daughter cells spermatids shows also ten chromosomes fig.
40 exactly half the number found in the spermatogom'mn no exceptions were observed to this numerical relation.
Exactly how the bivalent heterochromosome comports itself in the maturation mitoses could not be definitely settled since it could not be satisfactorily distinguished from other chromosomes of about the same size.
But there is some probability as was pointed out that it may be the chromosome marked y in Plate IX figs.
32 and 33 and in very early stages of the spermatocytes figs.
15 16 it showed a longitudinal splitting which soon after seemed to disappear.
For these reasons of its proved bivalence and its longitudinal splitting in conjunction with the fact that each chromosome divides in each maturation mitosis it becomes most probable that it undergoes a reduction division in the first mitosis and an equation division in the second.
For since it is formed and has essentially the same constitution as the other chromosomes there would be all reason to expect it to divide like them  and a more trenchant reason is this that of the ten chromosomes of a second spermatocyte there is no particular one which from any peculiarity of structure could be regarded as bivalent.
This is of course only circumstantial evidence of its undergoing first a reductional and then an equation division but the probability of this contention is obvious there is no doubt that it undergoes two divisions.
In the monaster stage of the spermatogonia Plate IX figs.
7 8 certain chromosome pairs could be rccogm'zed bj'' peculiarities in form and size namely those lettered in these figures.
It is corroborative evidence of the persistence of the individuality of the chromosomes if indeed any further proof of this idea is needed today that the same differences are observable in later stages.
So among the ten univalent chromosomes of a second spermatocyte Plate X figs.
37 38 are found three notably larger than the rest and three markedly smaller.
So in the figures one marked F  would correspond either to F or f in Plate IX figs.
7 8 A a to either A or a of figs.
7 and 8 and so on for the others.
And even in the spermatid Plate X fig.
40 there are the same size relations the ten pairs of chromosomes of a spermatogonium could be obtained by putting together the ten chromosomes from each of two second spermatocytes derived from the same first spermatocyte  but the ten single chromosomes of a second spermatocyte could be reestablished only by bringing together the ten semivalent chromosomes from each of the two spermatids resulting from such a spermatocyte.
The first maturation mitosis separates from each other the two univalent chromosomes that compose a pair of disassociated ones in the spermatogonium and a conjugated pair in the first spermatocyte.
Finally a word as to the behavior of certain cellular structures other than chromosomes  only a brief statement for the present results are corroborative of my 1900 earlier ones upon Peripatus.
In the achromatic spindle a central spindle fibres continued from pole to pole but not attached to chromosomes is found in the spermatogonia but not in the spermatocytic mitoses its fibres and the pole fibres are formed from the cytoplasm.
The mantle fibres on the other hand those connecting the chromosomes with the centrosomes are derived from linin fibres previously connected with the chromosomes  the mantle fibres are at least in great part nuclear in origin.
Whatever be our views upon the nature of the pole and central fibres whether we regard them as lines of currents or as actual fibrils I think we must consider the mantle fibres as contractile fibrils not simply paths of movements of fluids.
This follows clearly from the results of my Peripatus paper where the mantle fibres of mitosis were shown to be derivable from linin fibrils stretched out through the nucleus in the rest stage and there constituting a continuous linin thread spirem with many fine collateral branches.
Such fibrils crossing one another in all directions in the resting nucleus cannot be considered currentpaths how then change into currentpaths during mitosis except in so far as we regard a contracting gumelastic cord to be a path of movement
What holds for the mantle fibres need not however obtain for the pole and central spindle fibres.
The other achromatic spindle constituents of nuclear origin are the connective fibres fibres pulled out between two separating daughter chromosomes these are clearly derived from the linin forming the matrix within which the chromatin of a chromosome is imbedded or the sheath by which it is surrounded.
When two daughter chromosomes separate in metakinesis it has the appearance as though two connective fibres pass between them but it is more likely that such two lines represent in actuality the boundaries visible because of their higher refraction of a solid or hollow linin cylinder.
Already in the monaster stage of the spermatogonia Plate IX fig.
9 as of the first spermatocytes fig.
32 there is a pair of centrosomes at each spindle pole .
After each spermatogonia division these centrosomes wander through an arc of 180 to take up a position on the opposite side of the nucleus  the same process seems to take place in the spermatid  but before the second maturation mitosis each wanders through an arc of only 90.
In the first maturation mitosis there are two mantle fibres from each spindle pole to each chromosome Plate IX figs.
3233 Plate X figs.
3436 in the second only one fig.
39.
This is understandable on the basis that the first mitosis is reductional since as is most clearly shown in a straight dumbbellshaped bivalent chromosome one univalent chromosome is turned toward one spindle pole and the other toward the opposite one and each univalent chromosome being longitudinally split the linin thread attaching it to the spindle pole must be split into two  for any longitudinal splitting of the chromatin globules is always associated with if indeed not induced by a splitting of the linin matrix as is shown in the details of chromosome formation especially in the postsynapsis stage.
If the first maturation division were equational there would be no adequate explanation for the double mantle fibres.
As the centrosomes of the second spermatocyte move apart preparatory to the second maturation mitosis each carries along with it one of the two mantle fibres attached to each chromosome.
2. Spermatogenesis of Lycosa insopita Montg.
The only published work upon Aranese is that of Carnoy 18S5 Wagner 1896 and Wallace 1900.
Miss Wallace's paper was done partly under my direction and is a short preliminary note dealing with the accessory chromosomes which she correctly found to be double in the spermatocytes but did not determine positively its behavior in the maturation mitoses.
Wagner's short paper I have not at hand and cannot now recall his conclusions.
Carnoy described quite minutely the process of cell division in male germ cells of a number of spiders of Phalangium and Scorpio illustrating both spermatogonic and spermatocytic divisions his whole plate V with its numerous beautiful figures  such work has no direct bearing upon modern spermatogenetic study in that it does not consider the sequence of changes through the several cell generations.
But it is but just to say of this study of this priest of Louvaine that it was in many respects the best work of its day upon cell division.
Most writers following a certain antiquated German school have neglected to refer to him.
But he pointed out that cell division is not all of one kind but that two main types of it occur and this we now know to be the case and term them respectively reduction and equation divisions  yet this was the main ground on which that particular German cult fought him.
And he undoubtedly saw much more than many a later investigator and lacked only a general standpoint of interpretation.
Testes were studied of an adult male caught in October they were fixed and stained by the methods used for Syrbula.
The testes are slender cylindrical tubes and on account of the difficulty of removing them entire from the fresh animal one proceeds best by cutting off the abdomen from the living animal removing the h3qpodermis fixing the whole abdominal visceral mass then dissecting out the testes in distilled water.
The spermatogonia form the inner epithelium of the organ and by their last divisions the spermatocytes formed lose their connection with this ceU layer and come to lie free within the lumen of the testis  in this cavity are found all stages of the growth period the maturation mitoses the spermatids and spermatozoa.
In any transverse plane of a testis one finds the same series of stages.
Not only in the arrangement of the cells within the testis but also in the process of spermatogenesis this spider shows close resemblance to Peripatus in both e.g. the longitudinal split of the bivalent chromosomes is very clear and during the synapsis stage the chromatin loops are not so densely massed but that each may be distinguished.
Only two clear cases of pole views of the equatorial plate of spermatogonia were found.
On one of these Plate X fig.
41 exactly twentyeight chromatin elements could be distinctly counted.
In the other case the chromosomes were more densely grouped and I could not be certain whether there were twentyeight or thirty of them  it was possible that two of them were already dividing in metakinesis.
Two of these spermatogonic chromosomes are very small S.  the subsequent history of these could not be ascertained with any degree of certainty.
There are accordingly twentysix larger chromosomes all of which can be recognized in the thirteen bivalent chromosomes of the first spermatocyte.
All of these appear to be longitudinally halved during the anaphase so that each first spermatocyte receives twentysix daughter chromosomes.
There is no rest stage at any period of the spermatocytic history.
Shortly after the last spermatogonic mitosis commences the synapsis stage figs.
4244.
At its beginning fig.
42 the daughter chromosomes are elongated threads already commencing to join into pairs at the points lettered x.
But two of them N. 2 differ in maintaining the dense contour and smooth outline characteristic of mitosis these are the heterochromosomes and there is clearly one pair of them.
Accordingly of the twentysix large chromosomes of the spermatogonia two are heterochromosomes though they cannot be recognized in the spermatogonic monaster stage nor yet in the preceding rest stage.
In following synaptic stages figs.
43 44 the twentysix chromosomes unite to form thirteen bivalent pairs.
This takes place as in Peripatus by an approximation or even close fusion of every two chromosomes of similar length at their ends directed toward the central pole of the nucleus that one farthest removed from the greatest mass of cytoplasm.
During this process there appears to be a continuous Hnin spirem but no continuous chromatin spircm the bivalent chromosomes in the form of V's or U's are arranged upon the linin thread so that their free ends are toward the distal nuclear pole.
The distal ends of each V are rarely contiguous with those of a neighboring one though that is sometimes the case but as the figures show they are usually slightly separated.
Between the distal end of one univalent component of a V and the corresponding end of a similar component of another V can be seen whenever these structures lie in the same plane a connecting linin thread.
These phenomena are so similar to those in Peripatus that I think it unnecessary to describe them all in detail again and refer to the very detailed account of the Peripatus paper.
A pole view of a nucleus in the synapsis stage shows the optical crosssection of twentysix chromatin loops and lateral views demonstrate the presence of thirteen V's.
Each V therefore corresponds to two univalent chromosomes of the spermatogonia  it is a bivalent structure in which each arm represents one chromosome and has been formed by the conjugation of two end to end and not by transverse scission of a continuous chromatin spirem.
Where the ends of two conjugated univalent chromosomes come together the points marked x in these and the subsequent figures is frequently found a slight notch or break which is a connecting band of linin  corresponding to the central linin band in Peripatus.
That the space between the two arms of a V is not a longitudinal split is indubitable for stages like that of fig.
42 show previously separated chromosomes coming together.
The longitudinal split appears in the long axis of each univalent chromosome figs.
4244 and proceeds latest to their distal ends those directed toward the distal pole of the nucleus.
No earlier longitudinal split occurs and no later one.
A nuclear membrane appears first at the close of the synapsis.
The behavior of the heterochromosomes can be followed with equal facility and certainty.
All through the growth period they preserve their smooth contours compact structure and strong affinity for chromatin stains.
The two univalent heterochromosomes N. 2 fig.
42 come together and conjugate side to side figs.
4.3 44 though their ends directed toward the distal nuclear pole are in closer touch than their opposite ends in contrast to the behavior of the other chromosomes.
So is produced a bivalent heterochromosome throughout the growth period placed against the distal pole of the nucleus consisting of two univalent chromosomes lying parallel or more usiially in the form of a much narrowed V. It does not increase in size in the following stages and its only perceptible change is a longitudinal split of each univalent component.
This is shown in fig.
446ts A. and B which show merely the bivalent heterochromosome and an arc of the contiguous nuclear membrane.
In most cases the space of this split is widest at the inner ends of the univalent components of this bivalent heterochromosome as shown in fig.
A.
This longitudinal split cannot be seen from every point of vision but only when the heterochromosome lies in particular directions as is quite understandable.
Following the synapsis is a postsynapsis stage with the bivalent chromosomes more evenly distributed through the nucleus figs.
45 46.
The longitudinal split is wide and very evident but does not extend through the distal ends of the still generally Vshaped loops.
In each bivalent chromosome the angle of the V a of the figures is the point of junction of two univalent parts.
Here also the longitudinal split of the bivalent heterochromosome A.
2 can sometimes be seen.
No nucleolus is formed in any part of the growth period.
Immediately succeeding are the prophases of the maturation mitoses figs.
4752.
There occurs in them a gradual shortening and condensation of the chromosomes leading to narrowing or even complete temporary obliteration of the longitudinal split.
This split in the early prophases figs.
4749 in the case of some of the chromosomes becomes a little wider than during the postsynapsis figs.
45 46  so with the chromosomes marked H in these figures.
But this happens with only a minority of the chromosomes in any nucleus.
And it is not a definite stage in the structural change of every chromosome for the reason of its relative infrequency.
Most of the chromosomes on the contrary are straight or bent rods and the angle or middle point of these marks the point of conjunction of two univalent chromosomes x of the figs.
4752.
Such chromosomes as those marked H in figs.
47 and 49 are ones where the longitudinal split has become very wide at the point of union of the two univalent chromosomes  but even in such chromosomes one axis always remains longer than the other so that there is no evidence of a bivalent chromosome becoming extended out in a hne at right angles to its previous long axis.
And even for these chromosomes as is clearly the case with the others where there is no extensive widening of the longitudinal split the successive prophases lead toward a narrowing or closure of this split.
Regular rings appear not to be formed.
But chromosomes in the form of an X are not infrequent.
There is no difficulty in the interpretation of the form of these.
For in the one shown in fig.
51 marked D. the X is seen to be two univalent chromosomes each longitudinally split joined by their middle points 12 an X is then obviously formed from a V not by any extension of the longitudinal split but simply by the point of contact of the two univalent chromosomes shifting its position.
The decisive phenomenon through these prophases is that most of the chromosomes preserve their original forms of bent rods or modify them into straight rods leading toward the forms most frequent at the end of the prophase fig.
52 where the earlier point of union of two univalent chromosomes is recognizable x and the longitudinal split sometimes still discernible.
For the greater number of the chromosomes the changes of the prophases lead to the retention of approximately their original form but with a gradual partial or complete closure of the longitudinal split and there is no reason to hold that the longitudinal split ever widens and remains open in such a manner as to change the position of the long axis of a bivalent chromosome.
The heterochromosome undergoes no marked modification during the prophases at first each of its univalent portions shows still the longitudinal split shown in end view on fig.
49 A.
2 but toward the close of this period this split appears to close up.
In the equatorial plate of the first spermatocyte figs.
53 54 are found thirteen larger bivalent chromosomes and sometimes a minute chromatin body S. which does not appear to be bivalent at least it is not bipartite.
The latter may represent one of the two minute chromosomes of the spermatogonia fig.
41  one of these small bodies is occasionally found in the monaster stage of the second spermatocytes figs.
62 63.
Their behavior in the growth period could not be determined so we must disregard them in our analysis of the chromosomal relations.
The first maturation figure has then thirteen bivalent chromosomes corresponding to the twentysix larger univalent ones of the spermatogonia.
Lateral views of the first maturation spindle are shown in figs.
555S.
Wliile on most of the chromosomes at this stage the longitudinal split is not evident in some cases it is still persistent as notably in those lettered K in figs.
55 56 58.
Particularly the one in the last figine is valuable in demonstrating how the chromosomes become placed in the spindle the point of junction x of the two univalent components lies in the equator therefore the one univalent chromosome just above and the other just below this plane.
From this arrangement and from the mode of insertion of the mantle fibres it is evident that in this mitosis the two univalent chromosomes of each pair become separated from each other into opposite cells and that this is a reduction division.
Generally the long axis of each bivalent chromosome is parallel to the axis of the spindle which is always the case when its univalent parts are placed in one line.
Sometimes as with the extreme right and left ones of fig.
57 the long axis of the chromosome appears to lie in the equatorial plane  this results also in a reduction division however because here there is a bent instead of a straight bivalent chromosome with consequent convergent disposition of the two univalent chromosomes.
Lycosa is particularly demonstrative of this first mitosis being a reduction mitosis on account of the simple form of the chromosomes and of the occasional perceptible persistence of the longitudinal split at this stage.
No chromosomal rings occur at this stage the nearest approach to them are oval forms like the two largest in fig.
55 with very exceptional width of the longitudinal split such forms are individual variations not found in every cell as one sees on comparison with pole views figs.
53 54 showing all the chromosomes yet even in them the original long axis of the chromosome is recognizable.
In metakinesis fig.
59 all the bivalent chromosomes undergo a reductional halving.
Figs.
6063 show pole views of the chromosomal plates of the daughter cells second spermatocytes.
Disregarding the two minute bodies S. of 62 and 63 we find in 60 fifteen chromosomes in 63 fourteen in 61 thirteen in 62 twelve.
There would then seem to be a range in number from twelve to fifteen.
This I believe is due rather to some unexplained individual variation than to the possibliity of a normal unequal distribution of the chromosomes.
For in the nine cases where they could be easily counted the numbers fifteen fourteen and twelve were each represented by only one case whereas thirteen appeared in six cases and in the only two cases where the chromosomes of the second spermatocyte could be counted on lateral view one of these shown in fig.
65 there were in both cases thirteen chromosomes.
There were thirteen bivalent chromosomes in the first spermatocyte and the counts show that in the majority of cases so probably as the normal phenomenon there are thirteen univalent ones in the second spermatocyte.
As the chromosomes of the first spermatocyte separate in the anaphase fig.
59 each daughter chromosome shows a divergent split widest at the equatorial end  this can be nothing else than the reopening of the original longitudinal split if one compares the appearances in fig.
59 with the chromosome most to the left in fig.
55.
So each bent chromosome of the second spermatocytes figs.
6065 is a univalent chromosome so split longitudinally that the cleft is narrow at one end and widens out toward the other.
There is no proof of any kind that this is either a transverse break or a line of separation between whole univalent chromosomes.
The second maturation mitosis figs.
64 65 is accordingly an equational division.
I have been unable to count the chromosomes in the resultant daughter cells spermatids because of their massed arrangement there and therefore have not demonstrated that all the elements become halved in this second mitosis.
But all these thirteen chromosomes are constricted or cleft showing that each is therefore probably longitudinally split for this reason it is probable that each spermatid receives thirteen chromosomes.
As was the case in Syrhula so also in Lycosa the mode of division of the bivalent heterochromosomes was not positively determined.
In the spermatocytes it can always be distinguished by its smooth outline and compact structure only up to the tune when the other chromosomes acquire their final shape.
Yet among the chromosomes of the first mitosis there seems to be no particular one markedly different from the others.
But on lateral view of the spindle fig.
56 there is sometimes one 0 quite different from the others in the form of two elongated rods and its division is shown in fig.
58 0This may be the heterochromosome but there is no satisfactory evidence for this conjecture.
We found that in the synapsis this was formed like the ordinary chromosome by a conjugation of two univalent ones and that each univalent one underwent a longitudinal splitting.
This similarity in formation is some evidence that the heterochromosome may behave like the others during the maturation mitoses namely that it may undergo a reductional division in the first and an equational in the second mitosis.
And wc can say positively that the whole bivalent heterochromosome does not pass undivided into one of the second spermatocytes.
In both maturation divisions the centrosomes of both spindle poles touch the cell membrane figs.
5559 64.
As in the other objects studied by me there is no intermediate cell plate formed after the reduction division but after all other divisions.
3.
 Occurrence and Time of the Reduction Mitosis.
Korschelt 1903 in his excellent review upon the maturation phenomena distinguishes two types of maturation the ''eumitotic where both mitoses are equational and the pseudomitotic where one of them is reductional.
But these should be considered collective terms for groups of divergent opinions rather than a classification of actually occurring natural phenomena.
The general consensus of opinion at the present time the greater part of all the more recent work on most diverse animals is conclusive for the decision that a rediictional mitosis a separation of whole univalent chromosomes occurs in many objects.
In all the works where two successive equational divisions have been described it is significant that no positive explanation has been given of the earliest mode of origin of the bivalent chromosomes not even in the detailed study of Brauer 1893 and the same may be said of the recent elaborate analysis of de Sinety 1901.
All the cumitotic investigators seem to have interpreted as a first longitudinal splitting of the chromosomes a space which they have not proved to be such and which the observations of others show to be in all probability the space between two conjugated univalent chromosomes.
They likewise fail to account for the fact that the chromosomes in the reduction divisions so frequently differ in form from all other chromosomes and leave undecided the question of the origin of the bivalent chromosomes.
It is not necessary to go further into detail here upon this point on which I have expressed myself many times previously.
But we can say positively that there has not yet been proved any case of eumitotic maturation in the sense of Korschelt  that even in Ascaris the foundationstone of this doctrine Sabaschnikoff 1897 has shown that Boveri 1888 Hertwig 1890 and Brauer 1893 may have given a wrong analysis while recently Boveri 1904 himself and I 1904a have argued for the probable occurrence of a reduction division here and for the vertebrates also Iving 1901 Schreiner 1904 Marechal 1904 and I 1903 1904a have proved the same contention.
While this dispute will not be settled for some time for the reason that scarcely a beginning has yet been made in the study of the germ cells I do not hesitate to declare that in none of the Metazoa does maturation of the eumitotic type occur.
And I make this prophecy after starting from the point of view 1898 that there may well be different modes of maturation and consequently I can surely not be accused of starting out on my studies with bias in any particular direction.
Further all evidence of any strength is to the effect that probably in no case are both maturation divisions reductional.
This standpoint has been held by Wilcox 1895 and a few others and by myself in my first paper 1898 but I quickly discovered and corrected this initial error 1899.
To this Correction another correction must be made in the note of 1899 I wrote that the second maturation may be occasionally reductional occasionally equational this was a mistake for now I can say there is in Pentatoma Euchistus no evidence at all of reductional division in the second mitosis.
All maturation modes are then of the pseudomitotic type and of these Korschelt distinguishes a Prereduction where the first mitosis is the reductional one from a Postreduction where the second one is reductional.
Until quite recently I held that it was not of great physiological importance which of these mitoses was reductional provided that in all cases one of them was.
But my own studies extended over a diversity of objects have convinced me that very probably there maintains a uniformity here also even though the understanding of it may not be immediately forthcoming.
For surely out of the endless diversity in small details a larger uniformity is gradually showing itself and as scientific thinkers it is our object to discover the uniformity.
The minutiae of phenomena are but steppingstones and too often slippery ones toward simple and broad concepts.
By analogy with other natural phenomena we should a 'priori expect uniformity rather than diversity.
From this standpoint I enter upon the discussion again with the conviction that all maturation plans must be either prereductional or all postreductional and that there can be no compromise.
In our decision we must argue from the facts presented in the early growth period of the ovocytes and spermatocytes from their first mode of formation and axial relations to each other and not from analyses of their definitive forms.
Other things being equal such evidence must have the most weight which considers in the greatest detail the full sequence of stages and most particularly such as treats minutely the early growth period.
Too often follows upon a short and incomplete series of observations a long discussion in print of possibilities and probabilities like shuffling with an incomplete pack of cards instead of an attempt to settle the matter with the microscope.
The foundation of the argument for postreduction is in the work of Hacker and Riickert upon the Copepoda and with but few exceptions this has been allowed to go unchallenged.
On that account the facts of these workers call for careful examination.
Riickert 1894 studied the ovogenesis in three genera from the stage of the young ovocyte up to the monaster stage of the first maturation mitosis.
From the number of chromosomes present in young blastomeres of one of these he concluded that each chromosome of the ovocyte is bivalent eciual to two.
He described most fully Cyclops strenuus so that we will examine his work upon this species.
His figs.
48 present stages of the earlier growth period by no means a complete series.
The first ovocyte in these stages has eleven chromosomes each in the form of two more or less closely apposed rods.
Riickert assumes that each of these is a longitudinally split chromosome but while he correctly assumes that each is bivalent he does not determine the boundaries of each univalent component at this stage but from conditions in later stages his figs.
922 concludes that the middle point of each double rod is such a boundary.
This is the weak point in his whole analysis.
For why may not each of the single rods be a whole univalent chromosome the bivalent One being formed then by a conjugation side to side of two univalent ones
None of his figures in the least exclude this possibility.
And here may be recalled Lerat's 1902 somewhat inclusive observations also upon Cyclops to the effect that each such double rod may be so constituted.
Then there is a great break in Riickert's observations between the stages of his figs.
8 and 9 the one apparently a postsynapsis or equivalent early stage the latter an advanced prophase yet within just this undescribed period we would expect great changes in the form of the chromosomes such for instance as the appearance of an indubitable longitudinal split.
He states that each double rod in the prophase bends at the middle and later breaks transversely into two at this point this he conceives to be a separation of the univalent chromosomes at the point at which they had hitherto been united.
But he presents no positive evidence certainly not in his drawings that this is not the appearance of a longitudinal split of each univalent element a split whereby the halves would remain attached at one end and gradually separate at the other just as has been described for other objects opening up from a narrow V to a condition in which the separated halves of one univalent chromosome come to lie together in one straight line.
The uppermost chromosome of his fig.
116 is evidence of such a possibility.
Accordingly though the bivalent chromosomes lie so in the equator of the first pole spindle that their long axes coincide with this plane and their transverse  splits are at right angles to it this does not prove the first mitosis to be equational.
For all the proof he brings to the contrary the opening along the length of each bivalent chromosome may be a line separating its two univalent components and the first division therefore reductional.
Riickert does not convince though his is in many respects the most careful work yet done upon these forms because of the hiatus in his stages and because and this is the cardinal issue he failed to decide the mode of origin of the bivalent chromosomes.
I have not at hand Hacker's earlier papers 1891 1892 1893 and so quote from Riickert I.e.
his opinions Zuerst hat er die Reduktion in die erste dann in beide und zuletzt in die zweite Teilung verlegt.
In later papers 1895 1899 he confirms Riickert's view that the reduction is effected in the second maturation mitosis though I cannot see that in so doing he brings any stronger proof than did Riickert.
Change of view is no dishonor but a sign of courage and I respect any man for it for it is not easy to discard an idea for which one has fought but in scientific thought we expect change of view to be an accompaniment only of the discovery of more urgent facts.
Such facts we do not find in Hacker's latest work 1902 1904.
He had previously observed that in Cyclops brevicornis the normal number of chromosomes is twelve and that in the ovocytes before the maturation divisions there are six bivalent ones that these divide equationally in the first and reductionally in the second spindle so that the ovotid receives six univalent ones.
But now he maintains this is wrong that the chromosomes at all periods of the first ovocyte while bivalent are in the normal number and that there is no union of them into pairs during the growth period.
I have already criticised 19046 this view and in his retort 19046 Hacker has failed to take up the cardinal issue and give further proof.
He describes 1902 that in the ovocyte these twelve bivalent chromosomes are arranged in two planes of six each.
This is not borne out by his figs 3034.
He came to this strange conclusion in a roundabout way from observations upon the gonomerity of the nucleus holding that even at the time of the first maturation division the chromosomes are arranged in two planes corresponding to the earlier gonomeres of the nucleus one layer of them being maternal and the other paternal.
The only evidence for this are certain lines or septa said to divide the ''provisory division figure transversely and longitudinally.
No one has corroborated the existence of such septa and I have looked in vain for them upon a number of objects  he gives only lateral views of these structures does not show their origin and does not make it plain whence their substance is derived.
Yet fairly speaking this may be said to be the whole observational basis for his new involved analysis 
Each ovocyte of the second order is said to receive twelve bivalent chromosomes and then follows a union of tetrads into pairs.
''Bei der ersten Richtungsteilung gelangen wie bei jeder anderen Kernteilung je 6 vaterliche und 6 miitterliche Elemente in die Tochterkerne jedoch erfolgt die dicentrische Wanderung nicht in zwei gesonderten den elterlichen Anteilen entsprechenden Gruppen sondern die vaterlichen und miitterlichen Elemente miissen ihrer Aufstellung in den zwei Frontenentsprechend zwischen einander durchtreten und sind also vollkommen durcheinander gemischt wahrend sie an die Pole wandern Textfig.
Cb.
Diese Mischung ist jedoch wie wir gesehen haben keine unregelmassige.
Denn es liesst sich mit gr5sster Wahrscheinlichkeit zeigen dass bei der unmittelbar folgenden Paarung der Spalthalften die Paarlinge jewcils zwei im sekundaren Keimblaschen einander opponierten Vierergmppen angehoren.
Es muss sich also schon die dicentrische Wanderung in einer ganz gesetzmassigen Quadrillenahnlichen Ordnung vollziehen mdgen dabei regulierende von den Chromatinelementen selbst ausgehende Reize oder irgend welchc als Leitbahnen dienenden Kernstrukturen eine Rolle spielen.
Bei der Paarung der Spalthalften erfolgt die Vereinigung je einer vaterlichen und einer miitterlichen Spalthalfte.
Von den beiden einander opponierten Vierergmppen  und  werden sich z.
B. jeweils zwei Spalthalften ab und no miteinander verbinden und das Gesamtresultat des sersten Teilungschrittes ist demnach eine gleichmassige Durchmischung der vaterlichen und miitterlichen Anteile Textfig.
Cb unten.
This recalls Fol's 1891 quadrille of the centrosomes
The result of it all amounts to this spermatid and ovotid have each six bivalent chromosomes the fertilized egg has twelve bivalent chromosomes and the same number is found in the first polar spindle where they are arranged in two planes each second ovocyte receives twelve bivalent chromosomes and there unite into six quadrivalent chromosomes and these undergo a reduction division in the second mitosis so that the ovocyte receives six that are bivalent.
This analysis is so intricate and complex so little borne out by the fragmentary and somewhat doubtful evidence  only certain lines traversing a nucleus  that we can charitably say thepaper is its own strongest critic.
It is to be much regretted that Hacker has used these results in a general review 1904 of bastardization because they are irreconcilable with all other work and tend to make the supposed diversity and contradictoriness of the germ cell phenomena even more marked than ever before.
We are not in any need of Referate' but very pressing need of more observations.
The work of Linville 1900 on Limncca is not conclusive for the chromosomes are very minute and the prophases were not studied at all the same may be said of Francotte's 1898 study of Polyclades where the only figures are indistinct microphotographs.
The investigations of Van der Stricht 1898 and von Khnckowstrom 1897 upon Polyclades have been strongly contradicted by Schockaert 1902 who has given a much more detailed examination than either of these writers.
The papers of Prowazck 1901 1902 I have not seen.
Miss Wallace's paper 1900 is admittedly indecisive and Griffin's 1899 studies on Thalassema and Zirphcea concern chromosomes of very intricate forms and small size and their behavior was elucidated or should we say nigrificd
by an analysis of their final shapes.
So none of these investigations are decisive in any manner that requires rigid proof from a study of the whole series of changes.
There remain certain studies upon the spermatogenesis of insects the most deserving of attention of which are those of McCknig and Gross.
Vom Rath's studies of Gryllotalpa 1892 1895 omit all the earliest stages of the growth period  and while he takes the stand that the maturation is postreductional he grants the possibility of its being prereductional.
McClung 1900 1902 holds the postreductional viewpoint reasoning particularly from the forms of the definitive chromosomes in the late prophases of the first spermatocyte the bivalent chromosomes vary much in shape rods rings crosses and apparently intermediate conditions.
There is more uniformity in the first maturation spindle.
These difTerences in form McClung interprets as successive stages and to put it concisely he argues that the axial relations of a chromosome change so that if the long axis were originally from right to left it subsequently changes into a line at right angles to this.
Xshaped chromosomes are thereby interpreted as intermediate stages in this transformation.
His figures of Acridid spermatocytes are very similar to those I give in the present paper of Syrbula of the same family of the Orthoptera but McClung holds that an elongate bivalent chromosome placed with its long axis parallel to the first mitotic spindle undergoes an equational division therefore that the line of separation of its univalent components lies along its length.
From the assumption that the diverse forms of chromosomes of the late prophase are successive morphological stages he argues this change of axial relations and that might be justified if this premise were proven.
But that it is not is shown by the evidence given by me  1901a 1904 that certain chromosome pairs are characterized by certain forms in the spermatogonia as well as in the spermatocytes a point which Baumgartner 1904 has recently corroborated and amplified. Against this evidence McClung does not bring satisfactory proof that the differences in form express steps in axial changes.
McClung's work appears to be very accurate but I cannot follow him in this interpretation and would ask the critical reader to compare his descriptions and figures with those on the related object given in the present paper.
To prove his point he has to assume a complex axial metamorphosis which is wholly unnecessary on the basis of a prereduction.
The same criticism applies to the study of Gross 1904 on Syromastes which is  In the paper just mentioned Baumgartner claims that Sutton discovered a difference in size of the chromosomes and states that he himself has been fortunate enough to find a difference in form.
I think I was the discoverer of both of these differences and expressed them distinctly for various forms as Baumgartner will find stated in my papers of 1901 and 1904.
But he deserves credit for distinguishing constant forms among chromosomes of the first spermatocytes.
the strongest argument yet given for postreduction he is the sohtary worker on the spermatogenesis of Hemiptera who has taken the postreductional view and does it from a supposed secondary change in chromosomal form.
Yet strangely enough he describes a prereductional division of the bivalent chromatin nucleolus the only chromosome which is not said to pass through the stage of a cross
Its two whole univalent components become separated from each other in the first maturation mitosis.
In his object the bivalent chromosmes are in some stages usually little longer than broad  they approach in some conditions more nearly the form of a cross than in any Hemipteron which I have studied.
Had Gross taken up my old object Euchistus he would have found that Xshaped chromosomes do not occur at all or only very rarely that the phenomena there are accordingly simpler and more explicable than in Syromastes and that intermediate forms between a chromosome elongated in one direction and one stretched out in another do not occur.
Finally Gross admits that these forms admit of another interpretation Man konnte mir entgegenhalten dass der von mir aus den Thatsachen erschlosene Modus der Tetradenbildung auf einer wdllkiirlichen durch nichts bewiesenen Annahme beriihre Sichere Anhaltspunkte dafiir nach welcher Richtung die Halften der Kreuzc aus einander weichen lassen sich aus den beo.
bachteten Figuren nicht entnehmen.
I fully agree with him in thisBut when he states Dasselbe gilt aber auch von der bis jetzt allgemein angenommenen Bildungsweise he makes an error for in some cases of spermatogenesis crossshaped chromosomes do not occur and that is so in Euchistus and for such forms no voluntary assumptions are necessary.
Gross' work appears very accurate and I criticise only his interpretation of the crosses as intermediate forms.
Evidently he is considerably influenced by Hacker's latest views.
The same general criticism may be made of the work of Sutton 1902.
When we review all this work supposed to prove a postreduction we find it based upon an incomplete series of stages or upon forms with minute chromosomes of very diverse form or upon such as have chromosomes in the form of rings and crosses.
Every one will admit that chromosomes of such shapes are the most difficult to interpret  a tetrad with four parts of approximately equal size  where in it can we say lies the plane of the longitudinal split and where the line separating two univalent chromosomes
Just upon such chromosome forms is much of the postreduction argument based.
The correct because only decisive method is not to reason from such forms not to argue unnecessarily for a change in axis but to explain such chromosome formation from objects where the phenomena are simpler where the chromosomes show a definite long axis in early stages where the mode of formation of the bivalent chromosomes has been worked out and where forms like rings and crosses do not occur.
We must seek to explain the more complex from the more simple not force an interpretation from the more complicated upon the more simple.
The strongest argument for postreduction is that of McClung and Gross and yet they are reasoning from the basis of perplexing rings and crosses.
That such forms can be explained in quite a different manner and their first division be regarded reductional instead of the second I have shown for Peripatus where the series of changes of the linin elements as well as of the chromatic are clearer than in any object yet seen by me.
To the idea of postreduction we can apply the criticism  not proven.
No one can say that it does not occur yet I do not hesitate to state as my opinion coming from observations of some years upon a number of different animal forms that it will be proved not to occur.
And this is said with no intention of any disparity of the work of those who take the contrary stand for they have accumulated very important and hardwon facts it is only one of their interpretations that is being criticised.
Prereduction is based upon a simpler reasoning and to some extent upon more patent phenomena.
So we reach the conclusion that maturation phenomena are all of the pseudomitotic tje of Korschelt and only of the prereductional kind.
There is a mass of evidence for the view that in all cases the first maturation is the reductional one.
Korschelt 1895 has described this for Ophryotrocha Henking 1890 for Pyrrhocoris Paulmier 1899 for Anasa King 1901 for Bufo Nichols 1902 for Oniscus Lerat 1902 for copepods Schockaert 1902 for Thysanozoon Schreiner 1904 and Marechal 1904 for fishes McGill 1904 for Anax Bouin and Collin 1901 for myriapods and I for Hemiptera of different families 1898 1899 1901a and b for Peripatus 1900 for salamanders 1903 1904 and in the present paper for a grasshopper and a spider.
And it will be noted that it is the most recent work which supports this view.
Quite as conclusive evidence comes from an examination of the heterochromosomes as we shall see later.
Most of the recent work upon the botanical side corroborates this point of view as that of Gregoire 1904 Rosenberg 1904 Strasburger 1904 Berghs 1904 and Farmer and Moore 1903.
From what I consider to be the strongest evidence available at the present time we find the following series of phenomena during the spermatogenesis of animals.
There are a number of successive generations of spermatogonia each with the normal number of univalent chromosomes the heterochromosomes will not be considered in this place  all of their mitoses are equational.
The last generation of them produces the spermatocytes of the first order.
At an early period in these there takes place a pairing of the univalent chromosomes to form bivalent ones which may be a junction end to end or side to side. This is in each case a pairing of a paternal chromosome one derived from the spermatid with a maternal one one from the ovotid.
At an early stage of the growth period the bivalent chromosomes become more or less densely grouped the synapsis stage but the pairing of the chromosomes may commence shortly before this time.
After this conjugation each univalent chromosome becomes longitudinally split and no second splitting follows the first.
There may or may not be a rest stage during the growth period and when it occurs it may come before or after the synapsis stage.
In the first maturation mitosis each bivalent chromosome undergoes a division in such a way that one whole univalent element passes into one daughter cell the other one into the other cell  this is a true reduction division in the sense of Weismann and accomplishes the reduction in number of the chromosomes their conjugation in the rest stage had not effected reduction but only the formation of pairs.
The second maturation division is equational along the line of the longitudinal split so that the spermatid receives half the normal number and each of them on comparison with those of the first spermatocytes is semivalent but on account of their increase in size during the growth period virtually univalent.
All the facts speak for a strict preservation through the whole germinal cycle of the individuality of the chromosomes.
From the correspondence determined by Henking 1890 and Hertwig 1890 between spermatogenesis and ovogenesis by the one for insects and by the other for Ascaris we might conclude that in all cases of ovogenesis also prereduction occurs as indeed has been described for some animals.
I think there is no sufficient evidence at present for doubting this conclusion and much in favor of it.
Yet it must be acknowledged that the ovogenetic processes are less easily analyzed  Marechal is incorrect in stating that von Winiwarter 1900 first described this process  he simply reasoned that of three possible explanations of the origin of the bivalent chromosomes this was the most probable.
Henking 1890 before von Winiwarter had more conclusively argued for this but did not see the first steps in the process.
I was the first 1900 to describe all the steps in this series and 1901a to prove that each bivalent chromosome is formed by the conjugation of a paternal and a maternal one  this corroborated in the next year by Sutton 1902.
Gross '1904 is of course in error when he calls this the Hacker'sche Theorie.
This important phenomenon is at last receiving rapid confirmation from many sides.
because of the larger growth period with its much greater degree of metabohsm which is responsible for a certain inclination curiously enough still surviving in some minds to doubt the individuality of the chromosomes.
The cases of peculiar interest to the student of the germ cells are parthenogenetically developing eggs.
All the investigators of parthenogenesis hold that both pole bodies represent equational divisions or that the second is the reductional one and very general is the opinion that the second maturation mitosis being reductional and the lack of formation or secondary retraction of the second polar body being generally associated with normal parthenogenesis it is effected that by parthenogenesis the number of chromosomes does not become halved.
But there is no good ground for this view and parthenogenesis with fertilization following in a subsequent generation is really better explained on the idea of a prereduction.
For if the first maturation is reductional and the second equational one is eliminated the parthenogenetic egg would have onehalf the normal number of chromosomes  whether this number persists through all cell generations of the succeeding individual remains to be determined there is some evidence that it may do so.
If the half number does persist then when an egg of the following individual becomes fertilized by a spermatozoon the normal number would be restored instead of being multiplied one and a half times.
This could not be effected if the second maturation mitosis were reductional and the second polar body not produced.
And of one point we can be reasonably certain as Sutton 1903 has reasoned there is no probability that in a reduction mitosis all the paternal chromosomes pass to one daughter cell and all the maternal chromosomes to another in other words there is no evidence that half the spermatids or ovotids contain only paternal elements and half only maternal.
Indeed the chance of this would decrease inversely in geometrical ratio with number of chromosomes.
And therefore it is a wholly unfounded assumption to conclude as some have done with greater ability in the construction of hypotheses than in reasoning from phenomena that either or both pole bodies eliminate all the male chromatin paternal chromosomes.
The great weight of evidence is in favor of the view that the first maturation mitosis reduces the number of chromosomes breaks apart the univalent components of the bivalent chromosomes but does not do it in such a way as to separate all the paternal from all the maternal  and those wiio have founded hypotheses on contrary premises have been weaving ropes of sand.
1905.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
191 4.
 The Heterochromosomes.
These were discovered but not correctly interpreted by Henking 1890 and Wilcox 1895 first recognized as modified chromosomes by Paulmier 1899 and myself 1898 then described for a variety of Arthropoda by McCUmg 18991904 Sutton 1900 1902 de Sinety 1901 Wallace 1900 Gross 1904 McGill 1904 Baumgartner 1904 myself 1901a and b 1904a Voinov 1903 and Prowazek 1901  the last two papers I have not seen.
In all these objects there occur in the spermatogenesis peculiarly modified chromosomes which I have proposed 1904a to include under the term heterochromosomes.
I had named them previously chromatin nucleoli though with full appreciation of their chromosomal nature Paulmier  small chromosomes McClung accessory chromosomes and de Sinety special chromosomes.
Their essential characteristic is their difference in behavior from the other chromosomes in the growth period of the spermatocytes and ovocytes as sometimes during the rest stages of the spermatogonia a difference which appears usually to consist in the maintenance of their compact structure and deepstaining intensity so that while the other chromosomes become long loops or even compose a reticulum these do not undergo any such changes or only to slight extent.
There is really not much known as yet of these modified chromosomes despite extended studies upon them and at this place I wish mainly to draw attention to and try to explain differences in their behavior during the matliration mitoses and so endeavor to explain certain phenomena that up to this time have been regarded as contradictory.
They appear to be of very general occurrence in insects have been found in spiders by Iiss Wallace and by me in the present paper but so far seem not to be demonstrated for other objects.
To be sure Blackman 1900 described an accessory chromosome in spermatocytes of Scolopendra but did not describe its action in the spermatogonia nor even in the maturation mitoses and has not proved in any manner that this body is not a true nucleolus  true nucleoli containing chromatin or even chromosomes are relatively rare in metazoan cells but they sometimes occur as e.g. I have shown for the ovocyte of Paragordius in a paper recently published and what Blackman has described appears to be such a structure.
As I recently pointed out 1904a there are two main kinds of heterochromosomes  such as occur in pairs in the spermatogonia and unite to form bivalent ones in the spermatocytes which are the most frequent kind in the Hemiptera and were named chromatin nucleoli by me and such as are unpaired or single in the spermatogonia and so do not conjugate in the spermatocyte which McChmg calls accessory chromosomes.
Both these kinds agree essentially in their behavior during the growth period of the spermatocyte and are clearly distinguishable from the other ordinary chromosomes by their compact form and smooth outline  they differ with regard to the point of being single or double in the spermatogonia.
Both kinds may occur in the same animal as I have shown 1901b for Protenor.
In Anasa I found a pair of heterochromosomes in the ovogonia exactly like those in the spermatogonia which suggests that the paired heterochromosomes will be found to occur in both maternal and paternal germ cells of the same species but whether unpaired heterochromosomes occur in maternal germ cells is not known.
Heterochromosomes that are paired in the spermatogonia and unite to form bivalent ones in the spermatocytes I have described 1898 1901a 1901 1904a for some forty species of Hemiptera and in the present paper for Lycosa a spider and Syrhula an Orthopteron  Henking 1890 Paulmier 1899 and Gross 1904 likewise for Hemiptera and McQUll 1904 for Anax an Odonate.
Heterochromosomes that are single in both spermatogonia and spermatocytes for Orphania and Gryllus by de Sinety 1901 for Protenor by me 1901a for Xiphidium by McClung 1902 Brachijstola by Sutton 1900 1902 and Gryllus by Baumgartner 1904.
Not to be confused with heterochromosomes are the odd chromosomes I described 1901a h for Alydus Harmostes and Edancola chromosomes that seem to behave exactly like any ordinary chromosome during the growth period of the spermatocytes and cannot be distinguished from them by any compactness of structure or intensity of stain except that they do not form bivalent chromosomes by conjugation with others.
I called them odd because in cases where they are present the spermatogonium has an odd or uneven number of ordinary chromosomes and the odd one is that which does not have a homologous mate with which to pair during the synapsis stage.
These resemble in certain respects the unpaired heterochromosomes but differ in not maintaining a compact form during the growth period.
These three genera of Hemiptera are the only known cases where there is an uneven number of chromosomes in the spermatogonia without the odd chromosome being a heterochromosome.
And now we come to the point of the behavior of the heterochromosomes and the odd chromosomes during the maturation mitoses.
With regard to the heterochromosomes chromatin nucleoli that occur in pairs in the spermatogonia I was able to determine the following relations 1901.
In all the species of Hemiptera these imite to form one bivalent chromosome in the first spermatocytes which appears clearly double at the time of the first maturation mitosis.
In Euchistus variolarius Hormostes Protenor and CEdayicola the heterochromosomes of this type divide rcductionally in the first mitosis so that their univalent components become separated in the second mitosis each divides again by comparison with the other chromosomes probably equationally though I could not determine this in any decisive manner.
The same process Gross 1904 has described for the chromatin nucleoli of Syromastes and I have recently found it to hold for Euchistus tristigmus. For Anasa tristis Alydus eurinus Corizus Oncopeltus Calocoris Acholla and Zaitha I found 1901a the bivalent heterochromosome to divide reductionally in the first mitosis but did not determine its behavior in the second this is also the case in Lygus Nobis Corizus as I showed in the supplementary paper 1901.
Paulmier 1899 found the bivalent heterochromosome of Anasa to divide reductionally in the first mitosis but not to divide in the second in agreement with Henking's 1890 observations on Pyrrhocoris and with those of IMcGill 1904 on Anax.
That the bivalent heterochromosomes of Syrhula and Lycosa probably but not certainly divide first reductionally then equationally in the two maturation mitoses is shown in the present paper.
Finally McClung 1900 describes for Hippiscvs an accessory chromosome of the spermatocyte said to divide in both maturation mitoses he does not describe the relations for the spermatogonia but it is quite probable to my mind that the phenomena in Hippiscus will be found essentially similar to those determined by me for Syrhula namely a bivalent heterochromosome in the first spermatocyte formed by the conjugation of two univalent heterochromosomes of the spermatogonium.
We can summarize the facts of the preceding paragraph noting parenthetically that for the details in the various species the reader must refer to the original descriptions in the following statement when heterochromosomes occur in pairs in the spermatogonia i.e. are of the type of  chromatin nucleoli they always unite by conjuga On a renewed study of my old preparations of the last species I find this to be certainly the case and my earher statement 1901a was erroneous to the effect that the bivalent heterochromosome divides first equationally then reductionally.
Also in my account of E. variolarius 19016 I stated the heterochromosome in the second mitosis is not always divided that must be amended to read seems not always to be divided in that in some of the spermatids it escapes detection by its small size or by being covered by another chromosome.
13 tion to form bivalent ones in the first spermatocytes and all the describers except McClung agree that in the first maturation mitosis they always divide reductionally.
No set of chromosomal structmes is better adapted than such heterochromosomes to prove prereduction there are two in the spermatogonium which unite to form a bivalent one in the spermatocyte and the separation of the univalent halves of the latter in the first mitosis is settled beyond any question of doubt for almost all the cases  for all the cases in which they can be recognized by peculiarities of form or size during this mitosis.
Never in the spermatocytes do they take on the puzzling forms of rings and crosses which have misled so many good observers in the argument for postreduction.
And it is significant that Gross 1904 shows the bivalent heterochromosome of Syromastes is prereductional in its division and only by very indirect evidence attempts to show that the ordinary chromosomes divide postreductionally.
As to the behavior of this kind of heterochromosome in the second maturation for most of the species nothing positive could be decided  for other cases it has been shown that in some cases it divides in the second mitosis probably equationally as in Euchistus Harmostes Protenor CEdancola Syromastes Syrbula Lycosa and Hippiscus while it does not divide in this second mitosis in Anasa Pyrrhocoris and Anax.
Secondly as to the division of the heterochromosomes that occur singly in the spermatogonia and so undergo no conjugation in the spermatocytes.
Those of Orphania de Sinety Gryllus de Sinety and Baumgartner Brachystola Sutton and Xiphidium McClung do not divide in the first maturation mitosis but do so in the second.
Hence here again is prereduction a whole chromosome passing imdivided into one of the second spermatocytes in the very mitosis which all these observers consider to be equational 
The exceptional case is the unpaired heterochromosome of Protenor chromosome x which I described 19016 as dividing transversely in the first mitosis but not dividing in the second.
I have recently gone over these old preparations with great care and find nothing incorrect in my original description.
Thirdly in regard to the divisions of the odd chromosomes of CEdancola Harmostes and Alydus which occur singly in the spermatogonia but are not heterochromosomes.
In my original description 19016 I did not determine their behavior positively in Alydus and Harmostes beyond showing that they do not divide in one of the mitoses I have recently studied them again and find that in all these forms they dinde in the first maturation mitosis but not in the second just as is the case with the unpaired heterochromosome of Protenor and what Gross 1904 has called the accessory chromosome in Syromastes to which we shall reciir.
They do not appear bivalent in the first spermatocytes  and whether their division in the first maturation mitosis is transverse or parallel to their long axis was not determined on account of their nearly spherical form.
Now to him who has had the patience to follow tWs account which gives only a brief statement of some of the results of previously detailed observations the occurrence and behavior of the two kinds of heterochromosomes and of the odd ordinarj chromosomes may well seem difficult to reconcile.
But there is nevertheless a general conformity of process here which has not been elucidated heretofore.
Whenever the heterochromosomes occur in pairs in the spermatogonia they always conjugate to form bivalent ones in the first spermatocytes and their univalent components become separated in the first maturation mitosis i.e. divide prereductionally.
This is strictly in confirmation with the doctrine we have tried to lay down in this paper that the separation of entire univalent chromosomes i.e. their reduction in number is always accomplished in the first mitosis.
At the same time we have to bear in mind that there is no evidence that chromosomes divide in different ways in the first maturation mitosis some equationally and some reductionally  it is very probable that does not happen and indeed until proof is brought to the contrary we are justified in maintaining that it does not occur.
This is an important premise in interpreting the divisions of the heterochromosomes and ordinary chromosomes that occur singly in the spermatogonia.
Now in the Orthoptera Orphania Gryllus Xiphidium Brachystola the heterochromosome is single in the spermatogonia single therefore in the spermatocytes it does not divide in the first maturation mitosis but does in the second.
Because it does not divide in the first mitosis it must be either univalent or else already in the spermatogonia be composed of two so firmly united that they cannot be divided in the reduction mitosis its division in the second mitosis must be equational and all the descriptions show this to be so.
Now in Protenor the case is reversed the single heterochromosome divides in the first mitosis but not in the second exactly like the odd ordinary chromosomes of the Hemiptera but apparently the reverse of the single heterochromosomes of Orthoptera.
Since this heterochromosome of Protenor and the odd ordinary chromosomes of three other Hcmipteran species divide during the reduction mitosis these chromosomes must be already bivalent within the spermatogonium  the single one there be two in close union but not so close as to prevent their separation in the reduction mitosis.
There is some observational proof for this in that the odd chromosome or unpaired heterochromosome in the spermatogonium sometimes exhibits a transverse constriction as if marking the point where two had joined in Harmostes and Protenor and in Protenor the division of the heterochromosome in the reduction mitosis is at right angles to its long axis.
The failure to divide in the second mitosis can only be ascribed to an incomplete process of longitudinal splitting during the growth period.
We can thus express the likeness and difference between the single heterochromosomcs and odd ordinarychromosomes of the Hemiptera and the single heterochromosomes of the Orthoptera they all agree in dividing reductionally in the fust maturation mitosis whether by a separation of two univalent components or by a transport of the whole chromosome into one of the daughter cells they differ merely in not undergoing or in undergoing an equational splitting in the second mitosis.
We can sum this up in the statement all chromosomes and heterochromosomes be they paired or single in the spermatogonJa divide reductionally in the first maturation mitosis whether this division consist in two univalent components separating from each other or a single component passing undivided into one of the second spermatocytes.
And now we come to another point with regard to a general uniformity of heterochromosomes.
I first showed 1901a h that the ordinary chromosomes in the spermatogonia are arranged in pairs so that e.g. fomteen chromosomes form seven pairs the two of a pair being alike in size  and I showed for several species that whenever spermatogonial chromosomes show marked differences in size they can be recognized again in the bivalent chromosomes of the spermatocytes.
Sutton 1902 corroborated this for Brachystola.
 And later I showed 1904a corresponding chromosomes in the spermatogonia are alike not only in size but also in form.
We have just seen also that one kind of heterochromosomes the chromatin nucleoh occur in pairs in the spermatogonia  where there Is one bivalent one of these in the spermatocies it corresponds to two in the spermatogonia.
Further than this we have shown that the odd ordinary chromosomes of Hemiptera and the unpaired heterochromosomes of Protenor must be regarded as already  Boveri 1904 in his recent reaew ascribes the main credit of this discovery to Sutton 1902' as others have done but the point was very clearly stated in my papers illustrated on a number of species and furthermore I demonstrated that chromosomes of corresponding size conjugate to form the bivalent ones.
Quite a number of papers have come out recently with  new discoveries  which had already been made in my papers on Peripatus and Hemiptera.
bivalent in the spermatogonium  there as a chromosome pair with the components closely united instead of being as with most of the chromosomes separated.
Can we go further than this and consider the unpaired heterochromosomes of the Orthoptera to be also already bivalent in the spermatogonium but with the univalent parts so closely united that they do not become separated even in the reduction mitosis
The heterochromosomes of the Orthoptera appear to be usually larger than the ordinary chromosomes which is the only observational evidence for the idea that they may have the value of more than one chromosome and sometimes they are much larger.
Such evidence is of course not at all sufficient.
But should they be ultimately proven to be bivalent in the spermatogonia a further uniformity would evince itself all heterochromosomes and all ordinary chromosomes would be paired in the spermatogonia whether the two members of a pair be separated there umValent or be united bivalent  in the former case they would become bivalent by conjugation for the first time in the spermatocytes in the second case they would pass over already bivalent to the spermatocytes.
In any event an even number of univalent chromosomes in the spermatogonia and half that number of bivalent ones in the spermatocytes would be the primitive unmodified condition as it is the one most usually found.
In the preceding paragraph it was shown to be probable that the odd ordinary chromosomes of the Hemiptera and the unpaired heterochromosome of Protenor are already bivalent in the spermatogonia this may or may not be the case with the unpaired heterochromosomes of the Orthoptera but if it is the case as I think is somewhat probable then the following conclusion is reached  a conclusion well based at least for the odd ordinary chromosomes and the unpaired heterochromosome of Protenor heterochromosomes that are paired in the spermatogonia and become bivalent in the spermatocytes would be an earlier condition and would lead to the later condition of heterochromosomes unpaired in the spermatogonia by conjugation of their univalent components in spermatogonic cell generations.
In this way unpaired heterochromosomes would be later modifications of the paired  and in the same manner unpaired ordinary chromosomes later modifications of paired ordinary chromosomes.
Two univalent chromosomes of a spermatogonium might conjugate to form one bivalent one before the spermatocyte stage this would then be an odd ordinary chromosome which later might or might not become an unpaired heterochromosome or two ordinary chromosomes of a spermatogonium might become heterochromosomes chromatin nucleoli but still remain univalent in this cell conjugating not before the spermatocyte stage and two such univalent heterochromosomes might or might not later conjugate in a spermatogonium to form an unpaired heterochromosome.
On such a premise paired heterochromosomes and chromosomes within the spermatogonia would be an earlier condition than unpaired ones and unpaired heterochromosomes could be formed in two ways.
The conclusions of the preceding paragraph are put forward merely as tentative suggestions and in no sense as final conclusions the phenomena are too complex as yet for any thorough analysis and interpretation.
But amongst all this complexity a certain agreement in the phenomena becomes evident and this it is our business to discover.
I still see no reason despite the criticisms of McClung to modify my original standpoint 19016 that there is a transmutation in chromosomal numbers just as in any other parts of the organization and that the heterochromosomes are chromosomes on the way to disappearance  following Paulmier's 1899 earlier contention that they are degenerated chromosomes.
McClung 1900 1902 mges that they are frequently larger than other chromosomes and show just as many signs of active metabolism.
But neither Paulmier nor I regarded them as dead structures  and I pointed out that they seem to have a different metaboKc energy from the ordinary chromosomes because in some species of Hemiptera they are regularly attached to the true nucleolus which condition the other chromosomes do not share and have a different position within the nucleus almost always against its membrane.
There can well be no question that they are metabolically different else they would not behave so differently with a peculiar autonomy.
McClung has described them only for Orthoptera where they are frequently the largest chromosomes.
But the paired heterochromosomes of the Hemiptera are usually the smallest of all sometimes very minute granules as in Perihalus Coenus Trichopepla Corizus Coriscus Prionidus  and when there are several pairs within a cell as e.g. Acholla all of them are smaller than the other chromosomes.
So I considered them degenerate in the sense that they no longer carry on exactly the same activities as the ordinary chromosomes from which they must be derived but have taken on other energies and have in most of the described cases become smaller.
The excessively minute heterochromosomes would then be the last perceptible stage in their history for surely there is no reason to consider this the first stage  to consider them as orginating as buds from larger ordinary chromosomes.
Unpaired heterochromosomes do not conjugate during the growth period for the reason of the absence of a mate with which to unite and in cases of bastardization between different species as described by Guyer 1902 and Moenkhaus 1904 the maternal and paternal chromosomes fail to conjugate.
Or if the parents have different numbers of chromosomes some of those of the parent with the larger species are forced to remain univalent during the growth period as shown by Rosenberg 1903 for Drosera.
Facts like these might suggest that the presence of heterochromosomes has been produced by bastardization of species with different number of chromosomes.
But that could be the case only of unpaired heterochromosomes it would not explain the paired ones and we have found that the unpaired kind are probably derivable from the paired.
Again they have been found in all insects in which they have been sought for or in nearly all but it would be rash to conclude that all these species of insects have arisen as bastards between parental forms with different chromosomal numbers.
Therefore there is no good reason to refer the heterochromosomes to any hybridization process and every reason to consider them as modified conditions of the ordinary chromosomes formed in some cases concomitantly with a change in chromosomal number probably from a higher number to a lower chromosomes with a different metabolic activity and on the way to disappearance.
A remarkable fact for which I see no explanation whatsoever is their very general occurrence among insects and their absence elsewhere except in spiders but they may be found in other groups when the attention is given them that they deserve.
McClung 1902a has put out the hypothesis that they are sexdeterminants reasoning from the condition of the unpaired heterochromosome of Xiphidium here only half of the spermatids receive the division products and he argues that its presence in them may determine the male sex.
This is only a hypothesis and as yet we do not even know whether in the ovocytes of such species similar heterochromosomes may not occur.
Indeed whether spermatozoa with and those without heterochromosomes are equally capable of fertilization is not known and would be exceedingly difficult to determine.
Further in some species of Hemiptera all the spermatozoa receive division products of the heterochromosomes and on McClung's hypothesis all spermatozoa in such species would produce males.
On the question of the perpetuation from generation to generation of an odd number of heterochromosomes or ordinary chromosomes I have touched at another place 1901 but now I am convinced it is inutile to discuss this problem until we have facts of their behavior in the maternal germ cells.
In conclusion attention should be drawn to the recent divergent ideas of Gross 1904.
He describes for Syromastes a Hemipteron two pairs of modified chromosomes one pair of these which he calls chromatin nucleoli differ from the other chromosomes in acting like heterochromosomes during the growth period of the spermatocytes but agree with them in dividing in both maturation mitoses the other pair which he calls accessory chromosomes differ from the ordinary chromosomes in not dividing during the second maturation mitosis but behave exactly like them during the growth period.
His chromatin nucleoli which are not recognizable until the stage of the spermatocytes are said not to differ in volume from the ordinary chromosomes in the spermatogonia while his accessory chromosomes are described as the smallest of all the chromatin elements.
Both kinds of these bodies are paired and univalent in the spermatogonia and by conjugation become bivalent in the spermatocytes.
Now Gross reasons these are separate genealogical conditions of one and the same structure.
He argues that a pair of unmodified ordinary chromosomes of the spermatogonium become in the spermatocytes chromatin nucleoli which there act like heterochromosomes preserve their compact structure and undergo no longitudinal split and divide in both maturation mitoses so that each spermatid receives a half of each univalent component.
A spermatozoon formed from such a spermatid unites with an ovotid with a corresponding semivalent chromatin nucleolus.
But instead of these two semivalent heterochromosomes chromatin nucleoli of the fertilized egg appearing in the next following generation of spermatogonia as chromatin nucleoli he conceives them to appear in the form of the pair of small accessory chromosomes which form a bivalent one in the following spermatocyte divide in the first maturation mitosis but not in the second so that half of the spermatids receive a half of each of them.
So he interprets them both as chromosomal elements whose maturation divisions are continued over two generations of individuals although he really describes three divisions of them two for the chromatin nucleoli and one for the accessory chromosomes.
We need not enter here upon his further deductions from this interpretation but shall consider simply its probability.
A strong objection that suggests itself is this  all the individuals studied by him showed in the spermatocytes two chromatin nucleoli and two accessory chromosomes but this would be impossible if in every other generation the chromatin nucleoli changed into accessory chromosomes for then one should find in the cells of some individuals no chromatin nucleoli but four accessory chromosomes.
And if and Gross suggests this possibility from time to time successive pairs of ordinary chromosomes become chromatin nucleoli.
then in the course of time all the chromosomes would become chromatin nucleoli yet in no individuals were found more than one pair.
So from whatever standpoint we regard his explanation its improbability becomes manifest.
On the other hand his chromatin nucleoli behave exactly like the chromatin nucleoli paired heterochromosomes of Euchistus except that they are not distinguishable in the spermatogonia in some other Hemiptera they are also not recognizable in these cells  so there is every reason to consider them as persisting from individual to individual as chromatin nucleoli.
What he calls in Syromastes the accessory chromosomes are not heterochromosomes at all so certainly not later stages at all of chromatin nucleoli for he describes them as conducting themselves exactly like the ordinary chromosomes during the growth period  the bivalent accessory chromosome of the spermatocytes differs only from the other bivalent chromosomes in failing to divide in the second mitosis.
I think this  accessory chromosome  of Syromastes is to be considered a stage leading to that of the unpaired heterochromosome of Protenor they resemble each other in failing to divide in the second maturation mitosis and though the one in Protenor is virtually single in the spermatogonia we have given reasons to show that it is probably bivalent there.
The failure to divide in the second mitosis can for both be ascribed to incompleteness of the longitudinal split.
And this is surely a far simpler interpretation of the phenomena in Syromastes one much more in accordance with what has been described in other objects than that elaborated by Gross.
It is hardly necessary to adjoin that such a process as the two maturation rlivisions of one pair of chromosomes being continued over two germinal cycles has no known counterpart in other animals and so needs the most rigid observational demonstration Gerard 1901 has described for Prosthecerceus and Schockaert 1901 for Thysanozoon a peculiar deepstaining thread within the ovocytes which divides into two and is said to give rise to the egg centrosomes  it is for future research to determine whether this structure may have any relation to the heterochromosomes.
Literature Baumgartner W. J.
1904.
Some New Evidences for the Individuality of the Chromosomes.
Biol.
Bull. 8.
Berghs J.
1904a.
La formation des Chromosomes heterotypiques dans la sporogenese veg6tale.
2.
La Cellule 21.
19046.
Idem.
3.
Ibid.
Blackman M. W. 1901.
Spermatogenesis of the Myriapods.
Bull.
Univ.
Kansas 10.
BouiN P. and Collin R. 1901.
Contribution a I'etude de la division cellulaire chez les Myriapodes.
Ajiat.
Anz. 20.
BovERi T. 1887.
ZellenStudien.
1.
Die Bildung der Richtungskorper bei Ascaris megalocephala and Ascaris lumbricoides.
Jena.
1904.
Ergebnisse liber die Konstitution der chromatischen Sustanz des Zellkerns.
Jena.
Brauer a. Zur Kenntniss der Spermatogenese von Ascaris megalocephala.
Arch.
mikr.
Anat. 42.
Carnoy J.
B.
1885.
La Cytodierese chez les Arthropodes.
La Cellule.
Farmer J.
B. and Moore j. E. 8.
1903.
New Investigations into the Reduction Phenomena of Animals and Plants.
Proc.
Roy.
Soc.
London 72.
Francotte p. 1898.
Recherches sur la maturation la fecondation et la segmentation chez les Polyclades.
Arch.
Zool.
exper.
gen. FoL H. 1891.
Le Quadrille des centres.
Un episode nouveau dans I'histoire de la fecondation.
Arch.
sci.
phijs.
math.
Gerard O.
1901.
L'ovocyte du premier ordre du Prosthecerseus vittatus.
La  Cellule 18.
Gregoire V. 1904.
La reduction numrique de chromosomes et les cineses de maturation.
La Cellule 21.
Griffin B.
B.
1899.
Studies on the Maturation Fertilization and Cleavage of Thalassema and Zirphsea.
Journ.
Morph. 15.
Gross J.
1904.
Die Spermatogenese von Syromastes marginatus L. Zool.
Jahrb. 20.
GuYER M. F. 1900 really published two or three years later .
Spermatogenesis of Normal and of Hybrid Pigeons.
Chicago.
Hacker V. 1891.
Die Richtungskorperbildung bei Cyclops und Canthocamptus.
Ber.
naturf.
Ges.
Freiburg 6.
1892.
Die Eibildung bei Cyclops und Canthocamptus.
Zool.
Jahrb. 5.
1893.
Das Keimblaschen seine Elemente und Lageveranderungen.
Arch.
mikr.
Anat. 41.
1895.
Ueber die Selbstandigkeit der vaterlichen und miitterlichen Kernsubstanz wahrend der Embryonalentwickelung von Cyclops.
Ibid. 46.
1899.
Praxis und Theorie der Zellenund Befruchtungslehre.
Jena.
1902.
Ueber das Schicksal der elterlichen und grosselterlichen Kernanteile Jena.
Jenaische Zeitschr.
Naturio. 37.
1904a.
Bastardirung und Geschlechtszellenbildung.
Ein kritisches Referat.
Zool.
Jahrb. Suppl. 7.
19046.
Heterotypische Teilung Reduktion und andere zelltheoretische Begriffe.
Zool.
Anz. 28.
Henking H. 1890.
Ueber Spermatogenese und deren Beziehung zur Eientwicklung bei Pyrrhocoris apterus M. Zeit.
wiss.
Zool. 51.
Hertwig O.
1890.
Vergleich der Eiund Samenbildung bei Nematoden.
Arch.
mikr.
Anat. 36.
IJNG H. D. 1901.
The Maturation and Fertilization of the Egg of Bufo lentiginosus.
Journ.
Morph 17.
Klinckowstrom a. v. 1897.
Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Eireifung und Befruchtung bei Prostheceraeus.
Arch.
mikr.
Anat. 48.
Korschelt E. 1895.
Ueber Kerntheilung und Befruchtung bei Ophryotrocha puerilis.
Zeit.
un'ss.
Zool. 60.
Korschelt E. and Heider K. 1903.
Lehrbuch der vergleichenden Entwicklungsgeschichte der wirbellosen Thiere.
Allgemeiner Theil Zwcite Lieferung Jena.
Lerat p. 1902.
La premiere cinese de maturation dans I'ovogenese et la spermatogenese du Cyclops strenuus.
Anat.
Am. 21.
LiNViLLE H. R. 1900.
Maturation and Fertilization in Pulmonate Gasteropods.
Bull.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool.
Harvard Univ. 35.
McClung C. E. 1899.
A Peculiar Nuclear Element in the Male Reproductive Cells of Insects.
Zool.
Bull. 2.
1900.
The Spermatocyte Divisions of the Acrididae.
Bull.
Univ.
Kansas 9.
1901.
Notes on the Accessory Chromosome.
Anat.
Am. 20.
1902a.
The Accessory Chromosome  Sex Determinant
Biol.
Bull. 3.
19026.
The Spermatocyte Divisions of the Locustidse.
Kansas Univ.
Sci.
Bull. 1.
McGiLL C. 1904.
The Spermatogenesis of Anax Junius.
Univ.
Missouri Studies 2.
Maeechal J.
1904.
Ueber die morphologische Entwickelung der Chromosomen im Keimblaschen des Selachiereies.
Anat.
Am. 25.
MoENKHAXis W. J.
1904.
The Development of the Hybrids between Fundulus heteroclitus and Menidia notata with especial Reference to the Behanor of the Maternal and Paternal Chromatin.
Amer.
Journ.
Anat. 3.
Montgomery T. H. Jr. 1898.
The Spermatogenesis in Pentatoma up to the Formation of the Spermatid.
Zool.
Jahrb. 12.
1899.
Chromatin Reduction in the Hemiptera a Correction.
Zool.
Am. 22.
1900.
The Spermatogenesis of Peripatus Peripatopsis balfouri up to the Formation of the Spermatid.
Zool.
Jahrb. 14.
1901a.
A Study of the Chromosomes of the Germ Cells of the Metazoa.
Trans.
Amer.
Phil.
Soc 20.
19015.
Further Studies on the Chromosomes of the Hemiptera heteroptera.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philadelphia.
 1903.
The Heterotypic Maturation Mitosis in Amphibia and its General Significance.
Biol.
Bull. 4.
1904a.
Some Observations and Considerations upon the Maturation Phenomena of the Germ Cells.
Ibid. 6.
19046.
Prof. Valentin Hacker's Critical Review on Bastardization and Formation of the Sex Cells.
Zool.
Am. 27.
Nichols M. L. 1902.
The Spermatogenesis of Oniscus asellus Linn. with especial Reference to the History of the Chromatin.
Proc.
Amer.
Phil.
Soc 41.
Paulmier F. C. 1899.
The Spermatogenesis of Anasa tristis.
Journ.
Morph. 15 Supplement.
Prowazek S. 1901.
Spermatogenese der Weinbergschnecke.
Arh.
zool.
Inst.
Wien 13.
1902.
Ein Beitrag zur Krebsspermatogenese.
Zeit.
wiss.
Zool. 71.
Rath O. Vom.
1892.
Zur Kenntniss der Spermatogenese von Gryllotalpa vulgaris Latr.
Arch.
mikr.
Anat. 40.
1895.
Neue Beitrage zur Frage der Chromatinreduction in der Samenund Eireife.
Ibid. 46.
Rosenberg O.
1903.
Das Verhalten der Chromosomen in einer hybriden Pflanze.
Bcr.
Deutsch.
Bat.
Ges. 21.
1904a.
Ueber die Tetradenteilung eines DroseraBastardes.
Ibid. 22.
19046.
Ueber die Reduktionsteilung in Drosera.
Meddel.
Stockholms Hogsk.
Bot.
Inst.
RxJCKERT J.
1894.
Zur Eireifung bei Copepoden.
Anat.
Hejte.
Sabaschnikoff M. 1897.
Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Chromatinreduktion in der Ovogenese von Ascaris megalocephala bivalens.
Bull.
Soc.
imp.
Natur.
Moscou.
ScHOCKAERT R. 1901.
L'ovognese chez le Thysanozoon brocchi.
Premiere Par tie.
La Cellule 18.
1902.
L'ovognese chez le Thysanozoon brocchi.
Deuxieme Partie.
La Cellule 20.
ScHREiNER A. and K. E. 1904.
Die Reifungsteilungen bei den Wirbeltieren.
Ein Beitrag zur Frage nach der Chromatinreduktion.
Anat.
Anz. 24.
SiNETT R. DE.
1901.
Recherches sur la Biologie et I'Anatomie des Phasmes.
La Cellule.
Strasburger E. 1904.
Ueber Reduktionsteilung.
Sitzh.
preuss.
Akad.
Wiss.
Berlin.
Stricht O.
Van der.
1898.
La formation des deux globules polaires et I'apparition des spermocentres dans I'oeuf de Ttiysanozoon Brocchi.
Arch de Biol 15.
Sutton W. S. 1900.
The Spermatogonia
Divisions in Brachystola magna.
Bull.
Univ.
Kansas 9.
1902.
On the Morphology of the Chromosome Group in Brachystola magna.
Biol.
Bull. 4.
1903.
The Chromosomes in Heredity.
Ibid. 4.
VoiNov D. N. 1903.
La spermatogenese d'ete chez le Cybistes roeselii.
Arch.
zool.
exper.
gen. 4 5.
Wagner J.
1896.
Einige Beobachtungen iiber die Spermatogenese bei den Spinnen Vorlaufige Mittheilung.
Zool.
Am. 19.
Wallace L. B.
1900.
The Accessory Chromosome in the Spider.
Anat.
Anz. 18.
Wilcox E. V. 1895.
Spermatogenesis of Caloptenus femurrubrum and Cicada tibicen.
Bull.
Mus.
Com.
Zool.
Harvard Univ. 27.
Winiwarter H. von.
1900.
Recherches sur I'OvognSse et I'Organognlse de rOvaire des Mammiferes Lapin et Homme.
Arch de Biol. 17.
Explanation of Plates IX and X.
All the figures were drawn by the author with the aid of the camera lucida at a magnification of about 1800 diameters.
In all N. 2 denotes the heterochromosome.
Plate IX.
Syrbula acuticornis Bruner.
Fig.
1.
 Spermatogonium rest stage.
Figs.
26.
 Spermatogonia successive prophases.
Figs.
7 8.
 Spermatogonia pole views of the monaster stage.
Fig.
9.
 Lateral view of preceding stage.
Fig.
10. Lateral view of spermatogonic anaphase.
Fig.
11.
 Pole view of first spermatocyte showing all the chromosomes shortly after preceding stage.
Figs.
1315.
 First spermatocytes successive early stages in 15 only the nucleus shown.
Fig.
16.
 Rest stage of first spermatocyte.
Figs.
17 18.
 Successive stages immediately following the preceding.
Figs.
1922.
 Successive stages of the synapsis all lateral views 19 showing only the nucleus.
Figs.
2325.
 Nuclei in postsynapsis stage.
Fig.
26.
 Bivalent heterochromosome of this stage consisting of two closely apposed univalent members of which the upper one is stippled Figs.
2731.
 Successive prophases of first maturation mitosis in the first three only the nucleus shown.
Figs.
32 33.
 Lateral views of the first maturation spindle fig.
33 seen obliquely so that only one spindle pole shows.
Plate X Figs.
3440.
 Syrbula acuticornis continuation.
Figs.
3436.
 Successive anaphases of first maturation mitosis in 36 the largest chromosome of the upper plate is longitudinally split but so that one split half covers the other.
Fig.
37.
 Oblique lateral view of one daughter chromosome plate anaphase of the same mitosis.
Fig.
38.
 Pole view of chromosome plate of the second spermatocyte.
Fig.
39.
 Lateral view of second maturation spindle.
Fig.
40.
 Pole view of chromosome plate of the spermatid.
Figs.
4165.
 Lycosa insopita Montg.
Fig.
41.
 Pole view of spermatogonium monaster stage.
Figs.
4244.
 Lateral views of synapsis stages.
Fig.
44bis.
 A and B each represent a bivalent and longitudinally split heterochromosome of the synapsis stage and the curved line near each an arc of the nuclear membrane.
Figs.
45 46.
 Lateral views of nuclei postsynapsis.
Figs.
4749.
 Nuclei in early prophases of first maturation mitosis.
Figs.
5052.
 Nuclei in later prophases.
Figs.
53 54.
 Pole views of monaster first maturation mitosis.
Figs.
5558.
 Lateral views of the same stage.
Fig.
59.
 Anaphase of first maturation mitosis.
Figs.
6063.
 Pole views of the chromosome plates of second spermatocytes.
Figs.
64 65.
 Lateral views of second maturation spindle 65 oblique so as to show only one spindle pole.
Postscript.
Some time after the preceding was sent to press the following papers were received all confirmatory of my views upon chromosomal conjugation and reduction L. B. Wallace the Spermatogenesis of the Spider Biol.
Bull 8 1905 L. T. Dublin The History of the Germ Cells in PediceUina americana Ann.
New York Acad.
Sci. 16 1905 and J.
B.
Farmer and J. E. S. Moore On the Maiotic Phase Reduction Divisions in Animals and Plants Quart.
Jour.
Micr .
Sci. 48 1905.
Dublin's paper is of particular importance because he finds perfect agreement in botli ovogenesis and spermatogenesis.
Miss Wallace finds that the accessory chromosomes do not divide in either maturation mitosis and believes that only that fourth of the spermatids which receives them become functional spermatozoa so that the remaining threefourths are regarded as homologous to the polar bodies thrown off by the ovum.
March 7.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M.D. in the Chair.
Fifteen persons present.
The deaths of the following memlers were announced Edward Longstrcth February 24 1905 and J. Dundas Lippincott March 6 1905.
The Publication Committee reported that papers under the following titles had been presented for pulilication Senility among Gasteropods by Burnett Smith.
Notes on some Arctic Fishes with Description of a New Oncocottus by Henry W. Fowler.
The Utility Principle in Relation to Specific Characters.
 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown made a communication of which the following is an abstract By way of introduction to an argument supporting a broad view of the factors of evolution such as that taken by Darmn against the exclusive valuation of Natural Selection urged by NeoDarwinians the speaker mentioned that Charles Darwin was elected a correspondent of the Academy on March 27 1860 the Origin of Species having been first published in London on November 24 1859 and the following extract was read from a letter written by Darwin on May 8 1860 to Sir Charles Lyell This morning I got a letter from the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia announcing that I am elected a correspondent.
It shows that some naturalists there do not think I am such a scientific profligate as many think me here.
The Academy appears to have been the first among scientific societies to confer its honors upon Darwin after the publication of his immortal work.
The opinion of Alfred Russell Wallace as a leading advocate of NeoDarwinism that utility has necessarily been the sole factor in the production of specific characters was contrasted with Darwin's view and the difficulty of bringing facts to bear against a logical proposition constructed in the form of a closed circle was pointed out.
Many biologists have been led by this difficulty to the hasty conclusion that it is useless to cite cases of apparent inutility in face of it  but this view is unfortunate for thereby the field is abandoned to the advocates of exclusive utihty.
Furthermore the accumulation of probabilities by means of such cases is not only legitimate as a method but at the present time is about the only one by which the argument can be met.
An examination of the evidence for utility in generic and specific characters in serpents was undertaken chiefly for the reason that the relative simplicity of their organization and the nature of the characters which meet with general acceptance as of taxonomic value seemed likely to afford exceptions to Mr. Wallace's law.
The result appears to be that if the validity of specific characters depends solely upon utility species are few many genera now including a number of accepted species which Mr. Wallace would be logically bound to reduce to one.
Profound structural differences below family rank are not known among snakes.
Generic determination is made upon associations of characters such as the presence or absence of hypapophyses on the posterior trunk vertebrae with endlessly varying details in the form number and serial proportion of teeth the arrangement or absence of certain head plates and differences in the scutellation upon the body.
Utility is evident in the presence of ventral hypapophyses for they supply attachment for bundles of muscular fibres running to the diapophyses of several succeeding vertebra which play an important part in throwing the body into curves.
They are found in most aquatic species except in Hydroyhince where they are largely developed upon the tail.
But they are present in groups as widely separated otherwise as the socalled Natricince among colubrine snakes the Elapinoe among proteroglyphs and in Viperidoe.
They are therefore of no value taken separately as measures of affinity.
The elapine and viperine snakes are not usually aquatic and in them utility has doubtless had relation to the rapidity and force required in striking and the need of firm support for the hinder part of the body during the act.
In fact the distribution of these structures seems to afford a true case of convergent evolution.
While utility was primarily concerned in the development of teeth generally it does not follow that the endless trifling differences in the teeth of Colubridce and Boidce are due to the same cause for they do not present distinctive types as in mammals and many lizards having a mechanical relation to kind of food but seem on the whole to be promiscuously distributed.
That such minute differences are due to internal laws of growth and are reached by Natural Selection only when they become hurtful is much more intelligible than that utility has required such endless variety of minute adaptations.
It is admitted that by referring a structure to laws of growth no more is accomplished than to express a belief in the action of organic causes whose exact nature is not yet known.
In head plates the differences commonly met with are in the absence or fusion of certain ones upon the snout.
That the presence or absence of a minute fissure between any of these plates which are underlaid by the bony skull and incapable of flexure can have selective value is inconceivable and the frequency of their occurrence in degraded burrowing species points clearly to the probability that they result from the direct action of external stimuli and are of too little importance to be acted upon by Natural Selection.
In fact the almost invariable occurrence of these anomalies in burrowing species is a powerful argument for the agency of external irritations as a cause of change in structure and the further fact that they have become permanent in such genera as Stilosoma Helicops Haldea Abastor Carphophis and others certainly indicates that these degradational characters have been inherited.
They cannot be  ontogenetic modifications for they are exhibited by the newly born young  furthermore it is of the very nature of ontogenetic modifications that they must be adaptive while the whole biuden of the present argument is to show that those here in question are not of that character.
That the complete absence of internasals or loreal is sometimes correlated with a shortened snout and reduced dentition is true but this condition is not adaptive but degradational.
The result of adaptation in burrowing species is seen in Heterodon where the bony snout has been lengthened and made stronger instead of being reduced.
In response to external irritations this genus of exceptional burrowers has developed an irregular number of supernumerary plates on the snout instead of suffering any loss.
The elongation of the rostral or turning up of it like a plough is usually regarded as an adaptation related to subterranean habits and in some cases as Heterodon and Lystrophis it is doubtless true but the elongation reaches a maximum in Dryophis which is more arboreal than most snakes and is wholly absent in many others which burrow freely.
In body scales the range of individual variation in the number of rows follows a general law of proportion to the normal mean.
In ColuhridcB with a minimum of ten and maximum of thirtyfive they rarely vary more than two to six rows while in Boidce with extremes of twentyone and ninetyfive they frequently vary as much as fifteen.
Mr. Bateson's law of meristic variation seems to be followed.
The power of heredity is shown in this relative adherence to a mean but with the normal range of variation in mind it cannot be supposed that a slight difference in the number of rows can ever have had selective value to the ancestral form of any species.
The fact that the normal number in a species bears a quite definite relation to girth of body indicates that they are determined by laws of growth.
This might be regarded as a correlation under Mr. Wallace's comprehensive definition but it may be doubted if size as a general fact in nature is conditioned by Natural Selection.
It is more likely to be determined by laws of growth reacting to nutritive supply.
The function of keels and scale pits is not known.
The last are probably vestigial.
Keels may serve a purpose in the swimming habit of aquatic species.
In Hydrophince where they are not much developed on the dorsal scales ventral keels are common.
With both structures probable utility may be conceded .
The use pertaining to an entire or divided anal plate is not evident.
It might appear that a divided anal would be of service in increasing extensibility of the parts involved but in that case it would be a progressive character and we have on the contrary genera with an entire anal such as Eutcenia and Pityophis descended from Tropidonotus and Coluber which have the divided form.
It is the case however that an entire anal is present in all but two genera of Boidce which are near the base of the series in phylogeny.
Specific determination is made chiefly upon color.
Some few cases of color in serpents are protective or warning but very many species in most large genera are marked by differences in pattern or tint so inconspicuous that in view of the want of keen eyesight in snakes it does not seem credible that they can serve the ends usually regarded as useful.
The range of color variation in many species is extraordinarily great and some brilliantly colored species are mainly subterranean both of which facts are inconsistent with the theory of recognition markings.
Recognition in snakes is probably much more served by the olfactory than by the optic sense.
Sexual selection cannot be a cause for few species are known to present differences characteristic of sex.
Pigments in reptiles probably result from waste products of metabolism which doubtless is influenced by external conditions and food.
It is not however the existence of color but its precise distribution in species which is here in question and the minuteness of the differences in many cases between species of a genus or between species belonging to distinct genera but occupying the same range renders it doubtful if the utility principle can be held to explain them adequately.
At the same time the subject is very obscure.
The opinion held by the extreme NeoDarwinians is a deduction from the denial of the inheritance of acquired characters urged by the Weissman school.
It is true that the experimental evidence for such inheritance is far from establishing it but on the other hand none but that of negative kind can ever be brought against it and as a philosophical proposition it has a right to consideration.
The further assumption that Natural Selection necessarily requires the disappearance of indifferent characters which are outside of the law of utility is unwarranted.
As far as is now known inheritance and variation are ultimate facts of organic life.
Congenital variation occurs within relatively narrow limits about a mean and if it be held that the characters we have been considering have come to be of this kind so long as they are not injurious but merely indifferent no reason can be assigned aside from the necessity of completing a logical system why they may not be continued in succeeding generations.
Natural Selection is too often spoken of as if it were a positive force in evolution.
It is not so.
The struggle for existence is no more than the trial which conditions success and Natural Selection does no more than determine the failures by means of their detrimental structures.
It cannot directly affect those merely neutral.
The fact that characters such as the presence of brilliant colors in subterranean species and the fusions among head plates which there is especially good reason to regard as indifferent have become fixed to the point of specific or generic value directly contradicts Mr. Wallace's law of exclusive utility.
Their continuance furthermore would seem to require explanation under a doctrine of absolute noninheritance of acquired characters.
14 210 proceedings of the academy of mch. March 21.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M.D. in the Chair.
Fortysix persons present.
The death of A. Preudhomme de Borre February 27 a correspondent was announced.
The Pubhcation Committee reported that papers under the following titles had been presented for publication  Notes on a Small Collection of Orthoptera from the Lesser Antilles with the Description of a New Species of Orphulella by James A. G. Rehn.
Certain Aboriginal Mounds of the Tombigbee River by Clarence B. Moore. 
Certain Aboriginal Mounds of the Black Warrior River by Clarence B. Moore.
Certain Aboriginal Mounds of Mobile Bay and of Mississippi Sound by Clarence B. Moore.
Miscellaneous Investigations by Clarence B. Moore.
Description of a New Commensal Crab by Mary J. Rathbun.
Mr. Arthur H. Fisher was elected a member.
The following were ordered to be printed 
