DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF COMMENSAL CRAB.
BY MARY J. RATHBUN.
The crab here described as new was submitted to me for determi' nation by Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
It differs from other American species in its great breadth and in the form of the maxillipeds the carpal and propodal segments of which are unusually short.
Pinnotheres strombi sp.
nov.
Description of adult 9 .
 Carapace nearly one and a half times as broad as long oblong sides parallel corners rounded dorsal surface curving down toward the margins smooth and naked integument very thin and easily wrinkled.
Front less than onefourth width of carapace strongly bent down P. strombi
Dorsal and ventral views margin forming an oblique angle at P'     middle.
Orbits suborbicular eyes partly visible in dorsal view.
Antennules nearly horizontal.
Outer maxillipeds oblique the penult and antepenult joints short and stout the last joint small and almost terminal.
Chelipeds small rounded  upper margin of propodus convex lower margin sinuous fingers deflexed about half as long as palm stout fitting close together tips sharp and crossing.
Second pair of ambulatory legs a little the longest first pair stoutest fourth pair much shorter and narrower than the other three.
Dactyli short strongly curved stout at base tapering to slender horny tips.
Abdomen as wide as carapace and about as long as wide.
Outer maxilliped much enlarged Edge of front anterior margin of merus of first three ambulatories and lower margin of carpus of first ambulatory fringed with short dense pubescence as are also the lower surface of the carapace and the edge of maxillipeds and abdomen.
Di7nensions.
 Width of carapace 9.6 mm.
 length 6.6 mm.
Type locality.
 Taken from a living Strombus pugilis Linnaeus at Clearwater Harbor Florida b Mr. H. S. Colton 1905 one female.
Type in Museum of the Academy No.
1629 of the collection of Crustacea
SOME MARINE OLIGOCHTA OF NEW ENGLAND.
BY J. PERCY MOORE.
That the study of the httoral Oligochsta of the eastern United States has been much neglected becomes evident when it is mentioned that but four original references to the subject occur in the literature and three of these are very brief diagnoses of species.
The first is found m Prof. Leidy's Coniributions to the Marine Invertebrate Fauna of Rhode Island and New Jersey published in 1855 where Lumbriculus tenuis is described from specimens taken at Point Judith Rhode Island.
In 1863 Minor gave a quite recognizable description in the American Journal of Arts and Sciences of his Enchytroius triventralopectinatus taken near highwater mark at New Haven Connecticut.
In 1873 in the Report upon the Invertebrate Animals of Vineyard Sound Prof. Verrill describes as new Clitellio irrorata and Halodrillus gen. nov. littoralis.
The first three of these have not since been reported by any other observers but the last was carefully studied and its anatomy described in a Bulletin of the Illinois State Laboratory of Natural History for 1895 by Smith who establishes its identity with a widely distributed species of Enchytrceus.
Michaelsen in his Monograph of the Oligochceta recognizes the close resemblance between Minor's species and the wellknown Paranais littoralis of Europe.
The remaining two species have been noticed repeatedly by monographers and systematic writers who have been unable to arrive at any satisfactory conclusions as to their status.
While engaged in studying Polychceta chiefly in the region about Wood's Hole Massachusetts but also at other points on the New England coast for several years past the writer has collected a number of species of littoral Oligochceta which besides permitting the identification of the previously recorded species with certainty except in the case of Lumbriculus tenuis embrace several interesting additions to our known fauna.
Minor's Enchytrceus triventralopectinatus proves to be Paranais littoralis as supposed by Michaelsen Lumbriculus tenuis Leidy is almost certainly Clitellio arenarius MiiUer Halodrillus littorcdis Verrill is Enchytrceus albidus Henle and Critellio irrorata Verrill is a composite of Tubifex irroratus Verrill Tubifex benedeni Udekem and Clitellio arenarius Miiller.
To the latter conclusion I have been much assisted by Prof. Verrill's great kindness in sending to me for study his entire collection of marine oligochsetes including many bottles labelled by him as Clitellio irrorata.
Although this material was collected from 25 to 30 years ago and had since been subjected to all of the vicissitudes of preservation in small vials of alcohol it was possible to determine most of the specimens and as a result to considerably extend the known range along our coasts of several species.
For this privilege I am much indebted to Prof. Verrill.
In the present paper are noticed ten species representing three families as follows Naiidae Paranais littoralis Tubificidse Clitellio arenarius Monopylephorus glaher M. parvus Tuhifex irroratus T. benedeni T. hamatiis and Limnodrilus suhsahus Enchj'trseidse Enchytroeus albidiis and Lumhricilliis agilis.
Of these P. littoralis C. arenarius M. parvus T. henedeni and E. albidus are European species but only the first and last have hitherto been recognized on our shores.
Tubifex irroratus is the residiumi of Verrill's C. irrorata and the remaining four are new but have more or less closely related representatives in other parts of the world.
It needs to be remarked that very few of these worms are really marine  they are more or less recent migrants from a rich limicoline or terrestrial oligochsete fauna.
The naids and tubificids are derivatives of the former which have been carried down the streams into bays and estuaries and have spread through the brackish waters and along the littoral zone.
In their new habitat they have undergone modifications that are sometimes considered to have generic value.
A case of especial interest is that of the brackish water Limnodrilrus subsalsus which is the only species of this large genus that has been recorded as occurring out of fresh water.
As pointed out in the systematic part of the paper especially under Monopylephorus glaber some of the tubificids burrow in soil saturated with fresh water from springs and are experimentally shown to take more kindly to pure fresh water than to salt water of sea density.
The enchytrseids are more particularly strand forms which inhabit the marine vegetation thrown by the waves upon the beach.
They enter the littoral zone but are often found in large numbers quite above the reach of the waves at high tide particularly diuing rain storms.
They are undoubtedly derived from terrestrial or amphibious forms that have found a favorable environment on the seashore.
Enchytraus albidus at least is found in garden and wood soil also but may have leen introduced through the use of eel grass for fertilizer.
The species of Tubificidse described in this paper as well as some of those described recently by other authors tend to traverse some of the generic boundaries visually set up and to obscure their limits Tuhifex is here employed in a broad sense and it will be noticed that T. irroratus approaches Monopylephorus in many respects and removes that genus from the isolated position that it has been considered to occupy.
This species resembles Monopylephorus in its valvular and moniliform bloodvessels the form of its nephridia and the short sperm ducts with diffuse prostate glands.
On the other hand the paired genital orifices the welldeveloped penes and the capillary setae in the dorsal bundles are characters of Tuhifex.
Ditlevsen has referred to Monopylephorus a species M. trichochcetus having all of these characters except the penes.
The supposed great gap between these genera is thus bridged by two species.
On the other hand Tuhifex hamatus which is in most respects a typical Tuhifex of the Psanimoryctes group appears to lack capillary setae altogether.
Some of our forms here referred to European species exhibit slight departures from the published descriptions and it is possible may prove to be distinct when actual comparison of specimens from both places comes to be made.
Besides the species described in this paper my collections include several others represented only by immature specimens from which the characters of the reproductive organs cannot be ascertained.
The following key will facilitate the determination of species noticed in this paper A.
 Asexual reproduction by serial budding and fission.
B.
 Spermathecae in V setae all hooked and bifid the dorsal bundles beginning on V size very small Paranais littoralis.
AA.
 Reproduction normally by the sexual method only.
BB.
 Spermathecae in V setae all with simple not bifid tips and dorsal bundles beginning with the ventral on II male pores on XII.
C.  Setae shaped  blood yellowish testes deeply lobulated Lumhricillus agilis.
CC.
 Setffi straight with hooked internal ends blood colorless testes not subdivided .
Enchytroeus alhidus.
BBB.
 Spermathecae in X setae more or less distinctly bifid at the tips and of various forms often associated in the dorsal bundles with capillary setae male genital pores on XI.
D.  Male genital pores and spermathecal pores paired  penes present.
E.  Atrium simple no special prostate gland spermathecae reaching into XI when fully developed Clitellio arenarius.
EE.
 Atrium divided into penis sac and sperm reservoir the latter with a special prostate gland  spermathecse confined to X. r.  Sperm ducts long and slender prostate glands massive.
G.  Cuticle more or less completely covered with flattened papillse capillary setae present or absent no copulatory setse Tubifex henedeni.
GG.
 Cuticle without papillse capillary setae always
absent posterior dorsal setse enlarged and strongly hooked copulatory setae present on X .
.
.
.
Tubifex hamatus.
GGG.
 Neither cuticular papillae capillary setae nor copulatory setae present vas deferens very long and penis sac very complex with spirally wound muscular coats and a tnunpetshaped chitinoid penis sheath Li m nodril us s ubsalsus .
FF.
 Sperm ducts short and wide prostate glands diffuse.
H.  Penes present genital pores paired  capillary setae present Tubifex irroratus.
DD.
 No penes nor capillary setae  spermiductal and spermathecal pores median or nearly so  sperm ducts short and wide  prostate glands diffuse.
I.
 Spermathecae paired setae all distinctly bifid at tips Monopylephorus glaber.
II.
 Spermatheca single bifurcation of setae often obsolete Monopylephorus parvus.
Paranais littoralis Oersted Czerniavsky.
Nais littoralis Oersted 1843.
Enchytrceus triventralopectinatus Minor 1863 Paranais littoralis Czerniavsky 1880.
This species was described under the name of Enchytrceus triventralopectinaius as long ago as 1863 from New Haven Connecticut by Minor but appears to have escaped subsequent notice in America.
IIichaelsen places Minor's species doubtfully among the synonyms of P. littoralis.
Hitherto budding individuals only have been found and until the characters of the mature reproductive organs of American examples are known the identity of the latter wdth the European species cannot be  considered as established.
Nevertheless so far as budding worms are concerned no distinctions can be detected unless the number of setae averages somewhat less in American specimens.
The prostomium is often slightly pigmented but there are no eyes.
The blood is pale greenishyellow and the chlorogogue cells pale brown.
The first budding zone usually occurs at XX or between XIX and XX.
A second may occur at XXXV but usually only the first is conspicuously developed.
Still attached zooids may possess as many as 28 or 30 segments before the appearance of a second budding zone.
In buds nearly ready to become detached both dorsal and ventral setse occur on all segments.
All through July and August active budding continues under natural conditions but worms kept throughout the autumn at Philadelphia failed to develop genital organs.
Nothing but its small size and mode of occurrence has caused this species to be overlooked for so many years as it is extremely abundant and widely distributed.
More than any other species it withstands a wide range of density in the water being almost equally at home in the rainsoaked eelgrass above high tide on the shores of brackish ponds and under stones near lowwater mark on the exposed shores of Vineyard Sound Its movements are characterized by frequent quick nervous turnings and contractions.
Clitellio arenarius Mailer Savigny.
Lumbricus arenarius Miiller 1776.
Clitellio arenarius SaAigny 1820. iLumhriculus tenuis Leidy 1855.
Clitellio irrorata Verrill in part 1873.
Of the ten species noticed in this paper the present one is the largest fullgrown examples exceeding two inches in length and a millimeter in diameter at the clitellum.
Preserved specimens usually have the mouths of the spermathecse and the penes protruding in the form of prominent papillae as Prof. Verrill has noted in his description.
Sexually mature worms are abundant enabling one to secure cocoons in numbers and to study the anatomy of the genital organs with ease.
There is little doubt of the identity of the American and European worms the only noticeable differences being a slightly greater average number of setae in ours and an apparently somewhat shorter spermathecal duct than is figmed by European authors.
No entirely satisfactory figures of the setae of the Eiuopean worm have been found and it is possible that there may be a difference in their form also.
The spermathecae are often filled with large vermiform spermatophores.
The distribution of this form is equally extensive on the European and American sides of the Atlantic.
It is excessively abundant in Casco Bay and northward in Maine where it occurs under stones and among grass roots up to highwater mark on muddy and gravelly shores.
While apparently less plentiful south of Cape Cod it is common at many suitable points on the shores of Vineyard Sound Buzzard's Bay Narragansett Bay and Long Island Sound.
Without being able to decide the matter definitely it seems extremely probable that this is the species described by Leidy.
Although the characters given in the brief description of L. tenuis are not diagnostic they are sufficient to eliminate every other species described in this paper except the brackish water Limnodrilus suhsalsus while they all and the character of the habitat as well apply to C. arenarius.
Vaillant indeed has already referred Lumhriculus tenuis doubtfully to Clitellio.
Later writers have been more cautious.
In Prof. Verrill's collections this species occurs far more frequently than any other and usually under the name of Clitellio irrorata thus giving the best of authority for the inclusion of the latter in the synonymy.
It is this species that is figured under the name of C. irrorata in Trans.
Conn.
Acad. 1881 PI.
VIII figs.
3 and 3a.
The localities represented cover a wide extent of coast and named from north southward are as follows Nova Scotia Bay of Fundy Casco Bay Cape Ann Gloucester Massachusetts Salem Massachusetts Cape Cod Vineyard Sound Wood's Hole and New Haven.
Monopylephorus glaber sp.
nov.
Plate XXXII figs.
16.
This species is relatively short and stout for a tubificid the largest examples not exceeding 40 mm. and the usual length of living mature worms being about 2530 mm. wuth a diameter of .8 mm.
Young examples are relatively much more slender.
In mature worms there are from 6774 segments and generally they are 4ringed bearing the setge on the third and consequently well behind the middle.
The greatest diameter is at the clitellum and genital region from which the body tapers rapidly to the small pointed prostomium and very gently to the anal somite.
The clitellum occupies part of X all of XI and XII and sometimes extends on to XIII.
Except for the sensory hairs belonging to a zone of cutaneous organs encircling the middle of each somite the skin is devoid of cuticular pilosities and perfectly smooth.
Owing in part to the presence of grayishbrown pigment granules and in part to the remarkably high peritoneal layer of cells the body walls are decidedly opaque.
The external opening of the genital bursa is a conspicuous median transversely elongated aperture in the setae zone on the venter of XI.
The female pores are paired in the furrow XI 5 f.7Pfh open close together in a common depression just behind furrow  .
n Tf ' ' '' P'''''''  yS  to brown or of tt 
i fTT '''.
V ''  ''''' ' '' to a combination of tlie rose of the blood witli the brown of the chlorogogue ceUs the opaque whte of the cclomic corpuscle. the dark content of the itt
tme and the pigment of the slcin.
Anteriorly the color remains pink whi e 4 'accumulation of ccelomic corpuscles becomes opaque white men as m certam individuals the latter are very numerous they impart a characteristic whiteness and opacity to the entire worm' The seta are all of the usual short bifid hooked form fig.
4 with a deeply cleft tip and the terminal process somewhat longef ank more  tth b '' n ' '' ' Potion of the se a external to the body wall is peculiarly thickened but otherwise presents no characteristic features.
In each bundle the inner seta are somewhat the longer and those of ventral bundles slightly exceS the dorsal Ixt no marked differences are anywhere noticeable  usual the ventral bundles of XI are wanting.
From II to XI 4 or 5 k the prevalent number in each bundle the last being most usual in the tellum 3 IS usual in the ventral 2 in dorsal bundles and both may become reduced to one toward the posterior end Owing to the opacity of the body walls and the profusion of ccelomic corpuscles m mature worms the internal anatomy is difficult to work out upon living subjects though practically all of the results of the 012 f '' ''T'''' 'S5 '' from .009 mm.
to .012.5 mm.
in diameter and filled with a comparatively small number o spherical granules measuring .0025 in diameter and vlse opacitv and whiteness gives to the corpuscles their characteristic aspect' Among these corpuscles are seen a few filled with very much smaller granute which appear to be budded from the high peritoneal cells No unusual features are presented by the ahmentary canal The pharyngeal region IS very small though its glands extend diffusely to u' K J'T '   '''''''y d prominently sacculated eapecially behind the intestine and except in the genital region where they are slightly developed and in somites IV and V in which they make their appearance is thickly enveloped in chlorogogue cells wLh largely conceal the dorsal vessel also. '
As in all membeis of the genus hitherto described the vascular system presents a welldeveloped integumental plexus on theTateral arches and a remarkable system of imicellular valves.
The ventral vessel is free from the intestine without sacculations and without valves.
It bifurcates in III but is usually reunited in II by an asymmetrical commissural vessel from which a small azygous vessel arises.
The dorsal vessel is contractile sacculated and provided with a set of valves at each constriction throughout its entire length as far forward as somite III.
Although its anterior end is largely free from the intestine it retains a covering of chlorogogue cells as far as somite IV and bifurcates only on reaching II.
A pair of small lateral arches without valves arises in I and after dividing each joins the here double ventral vessel.
Beginning with III the arches spring from the dorsal trunk at the posterior ends of the somites just anterior to the valvular constrictions.
They reach to the body walls which they enter and then divide into a complex integumental network emptying into the ventral vessel by two trunks in each somite while the plexuses of contiguous somites are united by a longitudinal connecting vessel.
The network is similar to that of M. pilosus but appears to be somewhat more open.
The lateral contractile trunks increase in size to X one of which loops into the sperm sac while one in XI forms a rich plexus within the ovisac.
Behind XI they become much smaller but continue to form integumental plexuses which join the ventral vessel by two trunks.
The arches from III to XI are moniliform and provided with valves at each constriction.
That in III contains one set of valves IV 2 sets V 2 or 3 sets VI and VII 3 or 4 sets and in VIII to XI 5 or 6 setsnumbers which while occasionally varying are remarkably constant.
In the larger arches the two primary branches also may each contain a set of valves.
The brain fig.
3 has a peculiarly lobulated surface and is broad and very deeply incised anteriorly somewhat narrower and scarcely emarginated posteriorly where the muscular sheath is produced into a pair of contractile strands between which the dorsal vessel passes.
Ordinarily the brain is about i longer than broad but the proportions vary greatly with the state of contraction and extension of the worm.
Nephridia fig.
2 begin in VII with their nephrostomes opening into VI  none is present in X and XI though a pair communicating with the latter is frequently developed in XII.
In young worms in which the transparent body wall permits the nephridia to be readily studied they are absent from many somites and developed on one side only of others but in fullgrown worms few segments except at the posterior region lack them.
The funnel is small with the prolonged lip or tongue more slender and elongated than in M. pilosus.
It passes into a short neck which penetrates the septum and joins an irregular massive region in which the canal is much folded with granular coalesced walls and irregular lumen in the anterior part while in the posterior part the lumen becomes more regular and provided at intervals with ciliated ampullge.
From this portion an elongated lobe passes caudally and medially along the ventral bloodvessel.
In this lobe are four canals arranged in two loops the proximal one of which contains ciliated ampullae while the distal one lacks cilia and after returning to the massive region passes into a large thickwalled efferent canal the lumen of which exhibits a few irregular lateral diverticula and which finally opens to the exterior by a pore situated a short distance anterior to the ventral setae bundles.
The reproductive organs agree closely with what is known of other members of the genus.
A pair of testes suspended from the posterior surface of the septum  fill not only the coelome of X but large anterior and posterior sperm sacs.
The former is a short wide nearly spherical diverticulum from the septum  which arises dorsal to the intestine and projects forward when fully developed to the septum .
The posterior sac is much longer and arising from the septum  above the intestine accompanies but usually does not enter the ovisac to about somite XIII or XIV.
In young worms there are two but later one disappears.
Before maturity the cavity of the functional one is closed by a transverse diaphragm which prevents the vascular arch from entering more than a short distance.
The large sperm funnels rest on the floor of X against the posterior septum which is perforated on each side of the nerve cord by the short vasa deferentia which then bend laterally and each expands into a slightly enlarged region covered completely by a continuous layer of rather small prostate gland cells.
This region  the sperm reservoir  bends upward around the intestine and at the highest point passes into a short ductus ejaculatorius free from glands and opening into the summit of the fusiform penis sac.
The latter is provided with a very deep epithelium thrown into rugous folds and relatively thin muscular layers  but there is no trace of a penis.
The atria of the two sides open into the lateral portions of the summit of an eversible median bursa which probably acts to some extent as a substitute for the penis fig.
1.
Ovaries occupy a position in XI relatively similar to that of the testes in X and are provided with a median dorsal ovisac which arising from the septum  above the intestine reaches to XVI or beyond.
In addition to the ova it receives a vascular network usually from the left arch of the pair in XI and sometimes the posterior sperm sac in addition.
Spermathecse fig.
6 are nearly always conspicuous even in young worms.
They open either very close together or by a common median pore just behind the luirovv l and consequently are well forward in the latter somite.
They have short thick muscular ducts without glands and ovoid or sometimes nearly spherical ampullse which when fully distended may reach nearly the length of the somite.
Wlien fully distended the lining epithelium is thin and flat and the muscular layer thin but when nearly empty the former becomes thick and folded often in a spiral or annular fashion a condition which usually prevails near the entrance to the duct where the circular muscular layer is much thickened.
The spermatozoa are never fashioned into spermatophores but fill the ampulla in compact masses and bundles.
This species is closely related to Monopylephorus ruhronivens Levinsen to which Ditlevsen has recently referred Vermiculus pilosus Goodrich.
From this species as elaborately described by Goodrich M. glaher differs in the entire absence of villous processes on tne cuticle the greater number of seta the form of the nephridia and some minor characters of the vascular system brain etc.
Another closely related species is M. fluviatilis Ferronniere but if the sperm ducts are correctly figured for the latter the position of the prostate glands is quite different.
Both Goodrich and Ditlevsen have attached much importance to the form of the nephridia which they consider to approach the enchytrseid type.
In M. glaher this resemblance is entirely superficial and the arrangement of the tubules is nearly typically tubiciform their analysis into glandular region large and small tubule loops being easy.
In suitable localities this species is very abundant about the shores of Vineyard Sound and Buzzard's Bay.
It prefers regions overlaid by a layer of fine organic mud in places where there is an accumulation of decaying eel grass or other vegetable matter and especially where the salt water is diluted by springs or streams of fresh water.
In such places it occurs in enormous numbers beneath stones or a short distance below the surface while in nearby spots where the water is of much oreater density but the conditions otherwise similar few or none will be found.
Nowhere in this region have these worms been found in greater numbers or of such large size mostly exceeding 40 mm.
in length and 1 mm.
in diameter as along the gravelly and muddy banks of the Wareham river a small stream emptying into the head of Buzzard's Bay.
Here under stones near high watermark at a point where saltness of the water is just barely discernible to the taste enormous numbers occvu quite unmixed with other species.
If placed in pure salt water of the density found in Vineyard Sound these worms die much sooner than if placed in fresh water but may be acclimatized to either by gradual changes.
In brackish water they have lived and bred in confinement in Philadelphia for seven months and are now after this lapse of time as vigorous as ever.
That they are partial to low rather than high densities is shown by the observation that those living on the shores of the Eel Pond at Wood's Hole at a point where fresh water oozes from the ground below highwater mark burrow deeper toward the source of the spring when the tide rises and covers their habitation and come to the surface when it falls.
Other favored localities are certain shallow and nearly closed coves where great quantities of eel grass and algae accumulate and decay in water diluted by rains.
Here under small stones below halftide mark the species associates with Tuhifex irroralus and Lumbricillus agilis though the latter is far more plentiful in the decaying eel grass at a higher station on the shore and the former prefers the roots of salt grasses growing on more gravelly shores.
Though not active in their movements they are less sluggish than the T. irroralus and far more hardy than that species.
From the latter part of July at least onward this species breeds and some specimens brought to Philadelphia continued sexually active throughout the fall and into winter.
Wlien breeding they are especially active and congregate in such numbers beneath stones that they impart a quite red color to the surface of the soil when exposed by turning over the stones.
Monopylephorus parvus Ditlevsen.
PL XXXIII figs.
2934.
A second small species of Monopylephorus is referred to the above species with which it agrees closely in nearly all of the characters recorded in the original brief diagnosis.
Further information may necessitate a separation.
In size and form this species closely resembles Lumbricillus agilis but its distinctly pink color and the opacity due to coelomic corpuscles as well as its more sluggish movements are a ready means of separation.
Fixed specimens can be distinguished in many cases only after a careful study especially as sexually mature individuals are infrequent.
The length is from 8 to 15 mm. the diameter about .4 mm.
and the number of segments from 38 to 43.
The prostomium is much more slender and pointed than in M. glaber but the somites are similarly quadriannulate.
The number of setae in each ventral bundle is 3 or 4 anterior to the genital region and 2 posteriorly in the dorsal bundles usually 5 anteriorly and 2 to 4 posteriorly.
The setse are all small and of the usual form except that their tips are curiously variable fig.
29.
As the setse were studied only under the rather unfavorable conditions presented by alcoholic material it is uncertain how far this may be due to wear.
Many of the setse are undoubtedly broken but those figured appear to be intact.
In some the tips are deeply bifid and the points long and acute others especially in the posterior dorsal bundles have the upper or distal point more or less reduced and still others have a mere apical notch or are apparently entire.
The coelomic corpuscles are very numerous and about .012 mm.
in diameter with opaque white granules smaller and more numerous than those of M. glaber.
In internal anatomy this species closely resembles M. glaber from which however it is easily distinguished by the single spermatheca fig.
34 which opens in the median line of the furrow  and is usually folded on itself transversely.
The atria figs.
32 33 also differ in that they join in the middle line before opening into the bursa by a single small pore raised on the summit of a papilla.
It will thus be noticed that the primitively strictly paired character of the reproductive organs has been departed from more widely in this than the other species.
The prostate and other regions of the male ducts are otherwise as usual.
An anterior sperm sac extends through IX a posterior through XII and XIII and an ovisac to XVI.
The vascular system presents the characteristic valvular and chambered vessels and integumental plexus.
The brain fig.
31 is slender and the anterior lobes much elongated.
Xephridia are of the character belonging to the genus but are slender and elongated and the nephrostomial lip especially narrow and prolonged.
This species has not been found abundantly anywhere.
Occasional examples occur with the larger tubificids and with Lumhricillus  but it appears to prefer more gravelly shores and the neighborhood of beach grass among the roots of which it may be found.
In a few cases larger numbers were found living gregariously beneath stones at halftide on the south shore of Naushon.
It is quite probable that it has often been mistaken for the young of M. glaber or even of LumbricilluS' Tubifex irroratus Verrill.
PI.
XXXII figs.
7li.
Clitellio irrorata Verrill in part 1873.
The length of this slender species seldom exceeds 30 mm. but the number of somites may ecpial 90.
Most of the examples found in the vicinity of Wood's Hole are not fully mature and are from 15 to 17 mm.
long with about 70 somites.
The prostomium is more acute than in Monopylephorus and the somites are more elongated but similarly ringed.
In mature examples the clitellum is developed on X XI XII and for a short distance on XIII.
A pair of spermathecal pores occurs far forward on X just behind the furrow  and in line with the ventral sets the male pores occupy the place of the ventral setae or a little behind on XI and the ovipores are minute slits in the furrow .
In young worms the color is pinkish but in larger ones becomes deep brownish or purplishred often very dark and in mature worms always very much darker than in Monopijlephorus cjlaber a difference which is probably due chiefly to the fact that the deep color of the chlorogogue cells is untempered by the whiteness imparted by great numbers of peritoneal corpuscles.
The setfe are of two forms one kind being hooked and bifid and the other capillary and of very characteristic form.
Both occur in the dorsal bundles.
In preclitellar somites there are usually 2 or 3 or rarely even 4 of the former with 1 or 2 or occasionally 3 of the latter alternating with or 1 on the ventral side of each of the hooked ones.
Bundles of the middle region contain 2 hooked and 1 capillary seta and those of the posterior region 1 of each.
Normally every dorsal bundle except a few at the posterior end contains capillary setge but they are easily detached and in some specimens fully formed ones are absent from as many as onehalf or more of the bundles len more than one is present they are usually of unequal lengths the longest much exceeding the diameter of the body.
They are very slender and taper regularly to the end toward which they exhibit 2 or 3 very slight but distinct spiral turns fig.
11.
Possibly this region may be slightly flattened though this appearance may be due to the lights and shadows caused by the spiral turns.
The short hooked setaj fig.
9 are always bifid with the distal process decidedly longer unless worn or broken which is seldom the case.
Ventral bundles contain hooked setae only which are quite similar in form to those of the dorsal bundles but somewhat larger those of anterior bundles of both rows are larger than the posterior.
Anteriorly the ventral bundles usually contain 3 in the middle region 2. and posteriorly 1.
As usual the ventral bundles are wanting on XI but those of X are not modified as copulatory setae.
The vascular system of this species is remarkably like that of Monopijlephorus glaher presenting a similar valvular dorsal vessel chambered and valvular lateral trunks complex integumental plexus and similar mode of branching.
As distinctive characters it presents a finer and more numerously lranched integumental plexus with a more conspicuous longitudinal intersegmented trunk and a greater number of sets of valves in the lateral arches.
Usually the arches in III and IV have 1 set V 1 or 2 sets VI 3 or 4 VII 4 VIII 4 or 5 IX and X 6 or 7 and XI 6.
The right arch in X sends a loop into the sperm sac as far as the diaphragm present in the immature worm while that of XI enters the ovisac and breaks up into a rich plexus.
The intestinal plexus reaches as far forward as VII.
Owing chiefly to the height of the coelomic endothelium the body walls are thick and opaque.
Peritoneal corpuscles fig.
10 are of two forms about 90 per cent of them being spherical and filled with rounded opaque granules having nearly the color of the vertebrate red blood corpuscle.
The corpuscles measure .01 to .015 mm. and the granules .0012 mm.
in diameter.
The corpuscles are much less abundant than those of Monopylephorus glaher and are easily distinguished by their smaller and more numerous granules.
With the spherical corpuscles are associated a number of nearly homogeneous colorless flattened fusiform corpuscles and a few leucocytes.
The brain is about as broad as long very massive and with a slight median emargination posteriorly and prolonged anteriorl into a pair of relatively slender lobes separated by a deep cleft.
Like so many other organs the nephridia have much in common with those of Monopylephorus glaher.
The funnels are provided with a tongue which however is short and broad and the remainder of the funnel is much lobulated.
Nearly sessile on the septum it passes into a short and narrow postseptal neck which in turn enters a large tubule with a very wide irregular lumen and highly granular walls which is doubled on itself and forms with the first section of the tubule loops the socalled glandular portion of the nephridium.
The tubule loops have ciliated ampullae and are in general arranged as in M. glaher but their folds are much more open and in the posterior nephridia reach through two somites.
The efferent canal springs from the glandular mass and opens to the exterior in front of the ventral setae.
Altogether the nephridium is of the true tubificid type.
They are frequently developed on one side onl'or altogether absent from many somites.
The spermathecse fig.
8 are large with prominent simple ellipsoidal ampullae varying much in size and shape with the degree of distension but usually filling a large part of the coelome of X and reaching to the dorsal level of the intestine and the septum .
There is always a well differentiated muscular duct without glands short in distended spermathecae but relatively long in empty ones.
There are no spermatophores the spermatozoa being free and loose.
The male organs fig.
7 are remarkable as combining the short sperm duct and diffuse prostate gland of Monopylephorus with the soft penis having a thin cuticular sheath of a typical Tubifex.
Large funnels open into X on each side near the body floor and after perforating the septum in line with the ventral setse pass into short wide vasa deferentia which bend laterally and gradually expand into the long sperm reservoirs constituting at least onehalf of the entire duct.
Near the posterior end of the somite they bend abruptly upward to a point above the intestine and by a short constricted region pass into the summit of the penis sac which is nearly vertical but curves forward to the external pores.
The penis sac is cylindrical and has a thick muscular coat the free penis begins at about its middle but is usually considerably folded within the lower part of its cavity.
There is a distinct but thin cuticular lining reflected on to the penis.
The prostate gland is a thick layer of cells especially enlarged on the dorsal side uniformly covering the entire sperm reservoir.
The sperm sacs and ova sacs are quite similar to those of Monopylephorus glaher.
When fully developed the anterior sperm sac reaches through IX the posterior to XV and the ova sac to XXII.
The posterior sperm sacs are originally paired and in immature worms may be seen to be swept back and forth alternately reversing and righting themselves with the movements of the ccelomic fluid.
It is certain that this is one of the species included by Prof. Verrill in his Clitellio irrorata and a few specimens are included among those so labelled.
As no type is indicated it seems perfectly proper to preserve the name by applying it to this rather than to permit it to lapse as a synonym of one of the species already named even though tlie latter chiefly influenced the original description.
Like M. glaher this is a brackish water species and the two are frequently found associated about the outlets of littoral springs where an accumulation of organic mud makes the conditions otherwise favorable.
The remarks under M. glaher concerning acclimatization to fresh and salt water apply equally to this species which is however much less resistant to unfavorable circumstances than that species.
Perhaps this fact accovmts for its much less abundance though its habit of burrowing more deeply into the soil among the roots of beach grass in the smaller rootlets of which its peculiar capillary sette become twisted make it much more difficult to find.
Sexually mature individuals constitute a much smaller per cent of those found than in M. glaher.
So far as now known this species occurs only south of Cape Cod.
Tubifex benedeni Udekem.
Tubifex benedii Udekem 1855.
Clitellio ater Claparede 1862.
ClitelUo irrorata Verrill in part 1873.
Hemitubifex benedii Beddard 1889.
Psammoryctes benedeni Michaelsen 1900.
In its usual form this interesting species is at once distinguished from any others of our marine ohgochsetes by the nearly black or deep gray color resulting from the remarkable flattened papillae filled with greenishgray granules with which the cuticle is thickly studded.
These papillse are arranged in irregular transverse rows in all regions except the prostomium peristomium and clitellum but they differ greatly in size and consequently in conspicuousness in different regions being largest on the segments following the clitellum and thence gradually decreasing in size toward the posterior end where they are small and widely separated.
There is also much individual variation in respect to the number and size of these papilli3e and it seems probable that they may be shed and developed periodically though my opportunities for observing this species over a period of time have been veiy limited.
Certain it is that small individuals with nearly or quite smooth cuticle are frequently found living with fully papillated mature ones from which they appear to be otherwise indistinguishable.
Fully grown worms with the papillse scarcely developed also occur and some of these are among the material collected by Prof. VerriU at Savin Rock near New Haven Connecticut which is one of the type localities for Clitellio irrorata.
It is quite evident from a careful study of Prof. Verrill's description that his account of the setae is derived largely from specimens of this species in which as is frequently the case some of these organs were broken or abraded and the others exhibited the normally great variability in the length of the distal process.
When as slightly developed as in the specimens mentioned the papillae might be readily overlooked as unimportant.
In my experience the capillary setae are more often absent than present.
That the European worm also is variable in these respects is shown by discrepancies in the several descriptions and by the numerous names that have been applied to the species and listed by IMichaelsen.
So far as studied the internal anatomy of American examples agrees f ulty with the accounts given by Claparede Beddard etc.
The spermatophores are very large but less slender than in Clitellio arenarius.
This black worm is widely distributed on the seashores of Europe down to a depth of 7 fathoms.
On our coasts it has not hitherto been identified.
It is common between tides on muddy shores strewn with stones in Casco Bay Iaine.
Here it occurs nearly up to highwater mark in association with Clitellio arenarius though the latter is far more abundant.
In similar situations in Narragansett Bay also both species occur and Prof. Serrill has taken them near New Haven.
The writer has found T. benedeni only sparingly in the neighborhood of Wood's Hole and in water both fully salt and brackish.
My brother Dr. H. F. Moore has collected it along with Clitellio arenarius at Campobello New Brunswick.
Tubifex hamatus sp.
nov. PI.
XXXII figs.
1218.
Length up to 35 or 40 mm.
 greatest diameter about .8 mm.
at the genital region number of somites 85110.
In preserved specimens the prostomium is short and bluntly rounded the peristomium about as long as the prostomium and divided into two rings the first of which is papillated and evidently retractile.
Succeeding somites increase in size and the next five or six are biannulate with the smaller annulus anterior.
No further annulation is evident.
The greatest diameter is at XI behind which the segments become much narrower but undergo no diminution in length for half the length of the body.
Many of the specimens have somite VIII and often part of IX or even X strongly wrinkled or furrowed transversely.
None has the clitellum distinctly developed.
The cuticle is thick and everyThere perfectly smooth.
Setae are absent from the peristomium the ventral bundle of XI and the anal somite.
Elsewhere from one to four occur in each bundle.
Anterior to the clitellum four is the normal number both dorsally and ventrally on somites V to VIII and usually two or three on the remaining somites.
Postclitellar somites bear almost invariably two in the ventral and a single large one in the dorsal bundles.
In no case have capillary setae been detected in the dorsal bundles the seise being therefore exclusively of the hooked and bifid type.
It is of course possible that further acquaintance with the species now known from but one locality may disclose the occasional or periodical presence of capillary setae in the dorsal bundle.
The anterior setae fig.
14 exliibit no noteworthy peculiarities and are but little larger in the dorsal than in the ventral bundles.
They are slightly sigmoid with a small nodulus at the junction of the inner and outer limbs the distal'process of the slightly hooked tip longer and more slender and the proximal one shorter and stouter.
Behind the clitellum they undergo little change for several segments but at about the 20th to 28th somite in different individuals the dorsal and ventral setae become strongly differentiated.
The latter fig.
13 gradually diminish in size and the two divisions of the tip become equal in length the proximal one how390 ever remaining the stouter.
Probably as a result merely of their being less worn the points are usually longer and sharper than on more anterior setae.
At the point indicated the dorsal bundles become abruptly reduced to a single seta of very characteristic form fig.
15.
These are very large and stout especially in the outer limb which joins the inner one in an abrupt elbow marked by a prominent enlargement.
The tip remains bifid but is formed almost entirely by the stout strongly hooked proximal division which bears the small slender distal division as an accessory process on its convexity.
In intact individuals such large setae continue nearly or quite to the caudal extremity but in those which are regenerating the dorsal as well as the ventral bundles contain unmodified setae which are consequently here probably provisional.
The ventral setae of X which lie just anterior to the orifice of the spermathecae are much modified as copulatory sete fig.
17.
Usually each fasciculus is reduced to one functional and one developing seta.
The former is about onethird longer than the ordinary sets with a very long slender outer limb cmved in the same direction as the inner limb and deeply cleft into two delicate very slightly diverging prongs which are however united by a thin curved plate to form a groove.
The setae sacs are also enlarged and their outer thirds form eversible sheaths or pockets for the setae and their closed ends receive the secretion of two or three small groups of gland cells.
The preservation of the specimens is unsatisfactory so that histological details are avoided in the following description of the internal anatomy.
The digestive tract consists of a short eversible buccal chamber in I and II a pharynx with a conspicuous spheroidal and glandular dorsal diverticulum in III a short oesophagus extending through IV and V and an intestine with its chlorogogue covering from VI onward.
The septa    and  are thickened muscular and carried back to the alimentary canal in the form of funnels.
The last is especially muscular.
While a true integumental plexus appears to be absent the vascular system is conspicuous from the great development of the anterior lateral vessels which are very long and arranged in a series of loops and folds beside the alimentary canal as far back as the genital somites X and XI those in the latter especially being enlarged somewhat moniliform and extending into the sperm sac and ovisacs respectively.
The lateral vessels of VIII are also of large size but whether they form contractile hearts is uncertain.
A highly developed gridiron plexus of bloodvessels exists in the walls of the intestine especially in the somites VIII to XII where it resembles the condition figured by Stole for Bothrioneuron.
None of the specimens is mature so that the reproductive organs are not fully developed and further study may require some modification of the following account especially in what relates to the penis sheath prostate glands and extent of the sperm sac and ovisacs.
Thetesteshave the usual location in X but remain small in all of the specimens sectioned.
A single sperm sac which may be double anteriorly reaches from the septum  as far as XIII or XIV but probably much farther in fully mature worms.
It includes long loops of the lateral bloodvessels of X and is itself enclosed in the ovisac which arises from the succeeding septum.
The male efferent apparatus is shown semidiagrammatically in fig.
16.
The large fewcelled sperm funnel is so distorted by pressure from the intestines bloodvessels sperm sac and the septum j that no accurate drawing could be made.
After penetrating the septum  the vas deferens forms several close loops between the sperm sac and the intestine and then after curving round the former takes a more open comse in the posterior part of the segment before opening into the atrium.
The entire atrium is about onefourth the length of the vas consists of a small fusiform sperm reservoir receiving the vas at one end and the rather small prostate gland on one side.
At the other end it passes into a scarcely distinct ductus ejaculatorius of about equal length which in turn passes into the summit of the simple erect penis sac.
The latter is about as long as the preceding two parts of the atrium combined is of nearly cylindrical form has no special nor welldeveloped muscle sheath and contains the soft filiform penis which in these specimens lacks any chitinous sheath.
The free end of the retracted penis is received into a small bursa which is provided with a circle of small glands and opens at the position of the missing ventral setse of XL The ovaries are in XI but the oviducts have not been detected.
As mentioned above an ovisac arises from  and receiving the sperm sac and a pair of vascular loops extends to about XV or XVI.
The spermathecse fig.
18 open just behind the ventral or copulatory setse of X.
They are probably not fully developed in any of the specimens.
In those of largest size they have a length about equal to onehalf the diameter of the body are more or less clubshaped with a simple duct forming about onehalf the length and a more or less distinct pouch which may be elongated or spherical and pass gradually into the duct or be sharply defined.
No distinct spermatophores are present though several of the spermatheca
contained small elongated aggregations of spermatozoa.
Nephridia are present on the left side only of most if not of all segments.
In sections they are very conspicuous owing to the large size especially of the middle tubule loop but they are not sufficiently well preserved to permit a detailed description of their structure.
The terminal vesicles are likewise large and the external pores which are situated well mediad and a little cephalad of the ventral setae are very conspicuous in entire mounts in which their asymmetry is very striking.
The brain fig.
12 is somewhat broader than long slightly cleft anteriorly and deeply cleft posteriorly.
This species has been found only under stones between tides on the shores of the Acushnet river above New Bedford Massachusetts.
At this point the water is brackish.
Limnodrilus subsalsus sp.
nov. PI.
XXXIII figs.
1922.
Length up to 40 mm. but most examples are less than this greatest diameter at XII .6 mm.
 number of segments up to 12G.
The prostomium is conical with the apex rounded one and onehalf times to twice as long as broad.
The first two or three segments are very short not exceeding the prostomium  succeeding somites rapidly increase in length to X which with those following is five or six times that length.
The greatest diameter is at XI and XII from which point it decreases to the very slender posterior third.
Usually the peristomium is simple but occasionally is faintly biannulate II III and IV are very distinctly biannulate with a small sharply defined annulus split off anterior to the setse which are borne on the prominent middle portion of the larger annulus V is triannulate with the setse posterior to the middle of the largest middle annulus  VI has a second narrow annulus splitting off anterior to the setigerous one and a single one behind VII is more distinctly quadriannulate and VIII has four narrow annuli before and two behind the large setigerous one.
The next few annuli present an irregular multiannulate condition there being in most cases 5 presetal and 2 postsetal rings which are nearly or quite equal to the setigerous one.
Postclitellar somites are only very obscurely or not at all annulated.
Setae are absent from the prostomium the ventral bundles of XI and 2 or 3 caudal somites.
Preclitellar bundles contain 4 to 6 usually 5 setae behind the clitellum are found at first 4 then 3 and toward the posterior end 2.
Smaller numbers are very likely to occur in the doisal bundles though there is no constancy in this respect.
There are no copulatory setse and none in any way much modified or enlarged.
Throughout the entire length they have essentially the form shown in figs.
19 and 20 the ventral ones averaging somewhat longer and stouter.
The two divisions of the tip are nearly equal in length especially in posterior setee but the distal is usually longer and the proximal stouter.
The simple digestive tract has the pharyngeal diverticulum divided into two lobes by a median fissure in II and III  the chlorogogue investment begins in V or even IV and the posterior region of the intestine is very strongly beaded.
The anterior margin of the brain near which the connectives arise is nearly truncate but has two pairs of small ganglionic projections the posterior is about onehalf as wide and produced into a pair of prominent lobes separated by a narrow sinus through which the dorsal vessel passes.
Nephridia are of the usual type symmetrical and open immediately in front of the ventral setae.
The chief characteristic of the species is found in the reproductive organs especially in the abruptly bent atrium.
The testes are in X the ovaries in XI the latter filling a large part of the cavity of that somite but apparently unprovided with an ovisac.
The former produce spermatogonia very copiously and fill not only the cavity of X but a prominent median sperm sac which reaches to about XXI.
The male genital ducts fig.
21 present the structure and complexity of Eisen's genus Camptodrilus.
The large discoid sperm funnel is in contact with anterior face of the septum j on the posterior side of which the vas deferens has contracted to a diameter of oneeighth to onetenth its diameter.
From this point the vas deferens forms many and varied coils and loops not accurately represented in the figure and has a total length to the point of entrance into the sperm reservoir of about three and onehalf times the entire atrium.
The sperm reservoir ss.
is stoutly fusiform constitutes nearly onefourth of the entire length of the atrium and receives the massive prostate gland p. near the middle of the ventral side.
A ductus ejaculatorius about as long as and onefourth to onefifth the diameter of the reservoir unites the latter with the penis sac.
Sometimes this ductus is folded as in the figure and has a posterior connection with the sperm reservoir  in other examples it stretches forward beside the penis sac and the ends of the reservoir are reversed.
The penial apparatus is bent sharply at the summit of the bursa at nearly a right angle and extends thence caudad sometimes horizontally sometimes obliquely upward carrying with it the septum jj to a point opposite the setse zone of XII.
The penis is the direct continuation of the vas deferens and is slightly bulbous at the distal and gently enlarged toward the proximal end.
Surrounding it is the cuticular penis sheath which is 12 or 13 times as long as its proximal diameter and closely envelopes the penis except at the distal end where it expands broadly like the mouth of a trumpet.
The epithelial penis sheath s.
expands distally into a bursa divided by a horizontal diaphragmlike partition into a larger dorsal chamber dc.
which receives the free end of the penis and its cuticular sheath and a very shallow ventral chamber vc.
lined by enlarged cells.
From this lower chamber a narrow passage leads to the exterior.
The entire penial apparatus is ensheathed in muscle for the most part arranged in two layers wound spirally in opposite directions and united at the proximal end in a loose coil around the lower end of the vas deferens.
Distally these muscles partly unwind and form a sheet enveloping the bursa and binding the entire organ to the body floor.
Spermathecse fig.
22 open as usual in line with the ventral setse of X.
They are usually bent into a coil and have a large spherical pouch and a duct about twice as long the proximal half of which is narrow and the distal half expanded into a somewhat fusiform enlargement with thick walls.
This species occurs in considerable numbers along with Tuhijex hamatus under stones at halftide on the Acushnet river above New Bedford Massachusetts.
At floodtide the water is here strongly brackish and this species is of interest as the first of its genus to be recorded as occurring under such conditions all other species being inhabitants of fresh water strictly.
Enchytraeus albidus Henle.
Enchytrceus albidus Henle 1S37.
Halodrillus littoraUs Verrill 1873.
Enchytrceus humicultor Vejdovsky 1879.
Enchytraeus littoralis Verrill Smith 1895.
This the best known and most generally distributed of our littoral Oligochseta was redescribed and identified with E. humicultor Vejd.
by Smith.
Michaelsen to whose monograph reference is made for the complete synonymy considers the latter to be part of E. albidus Henle.
It is an abundant species from Casco Bay Maine to Sea Isle City New Jersey at least and while found more or less everywhere in the upper littoral zone is especially abundant in the windrow of eel grass which traces the line of highwater along the beach.
Wlierever the eel grass is kept moist by brackish water and retains a thick coating of diatoms to serve as food these worms become large and stout attaining an inch in length and a millimeter in diameter.
Elsewhere they are smaller.
The same species but of smaller size is found in moist spots on farm lands on Martha's Vineyard where it could readily be introduced in the large quantities of eel grass that are annually spread for fertilizer.
About Wood's Hole it also lives in damp sandy woods and on the shores of freshwater ponds especially of one that formerly was connected with the Sound.
Whether this particular species originated on the strand and migrated landwards or vice versa is not apparent.
Its wide distribution along the shore however may be accounted for by the ease with which it could be transported in masses of eel grass attached to floating logs or by clinging to the feet of migrating shore birds.
The same influences would affect Lumbricillus but not the various species of tubificids which burrow in the mud or conceal themselves beneath stones.
As a consequence many of the latter appear to occur quite locally.
Enchytrceus albidus may be easily recognized among our littoral species by its milkwhite color and nearly straight internally hooked setae.
Lumbricillus agilis sp.
nov. PI.
XXXIII figs.
2328.
The length of fully extended mature worms is about 16 mm.
or less the greatest diameter is .4 mm. and owing to the relatively stout anterior and slender tapering posterior parts the general form is distinctly clavate particularly in fixed examples.
Considerable variation in the number of segments has been observed ranging from 30 to 48 47 being a very frequent number in breeding examples.
The prostomium is short blunt and verrucose and possesses a distinct cephalic pore a little behind the apex on the dorsal side.
The spermathecal pores are inconspicuous slits facing laterally in the furrow j and the spermaducal pores are rather conspicuous simple or usually trifid slits in the position of the absent ventral setae of XII.
In preserved worms they are usually on the apex of the everted male bursa.
The female genital pores are visible only in sections.
When fully developed the clitellum is thick and conspicuous and extends completely around somites XI and XII.
Anteriorly the somites increase in diameter and length to the genital region but are always short  posteriorly they taper rapidly and are slender and divided into 3 annuli of which the middle one bears the setae and each of which may be further divided into 2 or 3.
As usual in the genus the setae are of a gently sigmoid form with rather acute slightly hooked tips and a slight thickening at the junction of inner and outer limbs.
Those of the ventral fascicles fig.
23a are decidedly larger than the dorsal ones fig.
23.
Ventral bundles contain from 5 to 8 usually 6 anterior to the clitellum and from 4 to 6 usually 5 posteriorly dorsal bundles usually 5 anteriorly and 3 or 4 26 posteriorly.
On somite XII there are no ventral and only 1 to 3 dorsal setae.
Anteriorly the color is a delicate pink which resides in the ovaries testes and oesophagus  this is purest as far back as the setae of somite VI and again in XI and XII but is elsewhere obscured by the brown color of the chlorogogue cells.
In the yovmgest worms the blood is colorless in larger ones sulphur yellow and in still larger ones reddishyellow.
At all ages these worms are transparent and especially so when young rendering the anatomical study of living ones an easy matter.
The septa y yj and yjj are thickened and jy only less so.
The three most anterior bear large clear septal or pharyngeal glands the third being more granular than the others.
The brain fig.
24 is slightly longer than broad straight or slightly truncate anteriorly with the prostomial nerves and circumoesophageal connectives arising from the anterolateral angles jvist behind these is the narrowest part from which the width gradually increases to the two quadrate posterior lobes which are separated by a moderate cleft and give rise to a pair of muscle strands.
Copulatory supraneural glands are well developed especially in somites III IV and V. They are slender and elongated not closely united with the ventral nerve and open on each side nearly at the ventral setae bundles.
The blood vascular system presents the usual simple structure found in species of this genus.
There is a welldeveloped periintestinal sinus terminating anteriorly at VII.
The dorsal vessel is conspicuous and contractile for most of its length becomes free from the intestine in XIII and terminates without bifurcating at the anterior margin of the brain where it joins the pair of vessels arising from the two loops into which the ventral trunk splits in III.
Ccelomic corpuscles fig.
25 are of two kinds much the most numerous being elongated irregular flattened colorless and finely granular ones measuring about .025 mm.
long and .008 mm.
wide.
The other and less numerous being flattened irregularly circular disks with large granules and a pale grayishgreen color which are .015 mm.
in diameter.
Nephridia of the form shown in fig.
26 occur regularlj in pairs in every somite except XI XII and XIII from VII caudally.
They have very small funnels and massive tapering postseptal regions from the posteroventral angle of which the large efferent duct which is shorter than the massive portion arises and passes to the external pore.
When fully developed the testes which occupy the usual position in XI are divided into from 10 to 20 slender pyriform lobes which fill a large part of the somite.
Sperm sacs are either altogether absent or very small.
The sperm funnels occupy a great part of XI are slender about 6 to 8 times as long as thick nearly cylindrical more or less folded when m situ and slightly contracted near the mouth the margins of which are provided with a ciliated roll or lip.
The Aas deferens is about three times as long as the funnel closely but very variously folded in XII and has the terminal part somewhat enlarged and ciliated.
It opens into the small depressed spheroidal glandular and opaque atrium which itself opens on the medial side of a small bursa in the position of the ventral setae.
The bursa can be everted as a conical penis fig.
27.
Somewhat like the testes the ovaries are subdivided into about 20 ellipsoidal bodies each with a cross division on one side of which is one or several large ova and on the other a number of small ones.
A small ovisac pushes back from septum  but is never extensively developed.
The spermathecae fig.
28 are small pinkish pyriform tubes without diverticula or distinct ducts which communicate with the lumen of the oesophagus in V and with the exterior in the furrow  near which they bear a circle of glands chiefly aggregated into an anterior and a posterior group.
This is an exceedingly pretty and active little worm which crawls rapidly and clings closely to surfaces.
It is extremely abundant among the eel grass thrown on shore near highwater mark and which accumulates in great quantities in sheltered coves.
Its special habitat is a certain stratum in the bedded masses where the plant is neither soaked in water and much decayed nor dried by the sun and air as in the uppermost layer but where it remains moist and coated witha layer of diatoms on which the worm feeds.
If sexually active worms be removed from such conditions and placed in clean salt water without diatoms the genital organs quickly shrink but if kept in even a small quantity of moist eel grass exposed to moderate light they continue to reproduce.
These worms are much parasitized by a monocystid gregarine.
The species is known from Casco Bay Maine to Mneyard Sound Massachusetts.
Bibliography.
Beddard F. E. On Certain Points in the Structure of CUtcUio.
Proc.
Zool Soc.
London 1888 485495 PI.
XXIII.
Bourne A. G. Notes on the Naidiform Ohgochseta.
Quar.
Jour.
Mlcr.
Sci XXXII 1891 pp.
349356 Pis.
XXVI and XXVII.
Claparede E. Etudes Anatomiques sur les Annehdes etc.
Mem.
Soc.
Phys Geneve XVI 1861 pp.
101110 Pis.
Ill and IV.
Claparde E. Recherches Anatomiques sur les Oligochetes.
Id. XVI 1862 pp.
217291 Pis.
IIV DiTLEVSEN A. Studien an Oligochaten.
Zeit.
f. Wiss.
Zool. LXXVII 1904 pp.
398480 Pis.
XVIXVIII.
Ferrionniere G. Contribution k I'etude de la faune de la LoireInferieure.
Annlides oligochetes.
Bull.
Soc.
Set.
nat.
Quest IX 1899 pp.
2424 2469 294 PI.
XIX.
Goodrich E. S. On the Structure of Vermicidus Ii7nosus.
Quar.
Jour.
Micr.
ScL XXXVII 1895 253267 Pis.
XXVIXXVIII.
Leidy J.
Marine Invertebrate Fauna of Rhode Island and New Jersey.
Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. Ill 1855 p. 148 PI.
XI fig.
64.
MiCHAELSEN W. Oligochseta Berlin 1900.
Minor W. C. Natural and Artificial Section in Some Chsetopod AnnelidsAynerican Journal of Science and Arts XXXV 1863 p. 36.
Smith F. Notes on Species of North American Oligochseta.
Bull.
III.
State Lab.
Nat.
Hist. IV 1895 pp.
289292.
Vaillant L. Histoire des Annels.
Paris 1890 III 2 pp.
421 422.
Verrill a. E. Report upon the Invertebrate Animals of Vineyard Sound and Adjacent Waters.
Rep. U. S. Fish Comm. 1873 pp.
622624 324.
Verrill A. E. New England Annelida.
Trans.
Conn.
Acad. IV 1881 PI.
VIII fig.
3.
Explanation of Plates XXXII and XXXIII.
Plate XXXII.
 Monopylephorus glaber figs.
1 to 6.
Fig.
1.
 Male genital duct entire dissected.
X 180.
The histology is semidiagrammatic.
Fig.
2.
 Outline of a living nephridium in situ seen from below.
X 180.
V ventral blood vessel.
Fig.
3.
 Outline of brain from above.
X ISO.
Fig.
4.
 A ventral seta from VIII.
X 335.
Fig.
5.
 Three ccelomic corpuscles of different sizes.
X280.
Fig.
6.
 A pair of spermathecEe.
X 55.
Tubifex irroratus figs.
7 to 11.
Fig.
7.
 Side view of entire male genital duct the penis sac partly concealed behind the sperm reservoir from a dissection and sections.
X 180.
Fig.
8.
 Two spermathecie from different worms a much and b little distended with sperm.
X55.
Fig.
9.
 Ventral setse a from somite IV b from somite XL and c from the posterior end.
X 335.
Fig.
10.
 Ccelomic corpuscles a of the ordinary form b the homogeneous colorless form.
X 280.
Fig.
11.
 Terminal portion of a dorsal capillary seta.
X560.
Tubifex hamatus figs.
12 to 18.
Fig.
12.
 Outline of brain from above.
X 180 Fig.
13.
 A posterior dorsal seta.
X 280.
Fig.
14.
 A dorsal seta from VIII and a tip of a ventral seta from the same.
 X280.
Fig.
15.
 Two of the hooked dorsal setse from the middle region.
X 280.
Fig.
16.
 Outline of the male genital duct with a portion only of the vas deferens represented.
X 180.
Funnel diagrammatic.
Fig.
17.
 A copulatory seta retracted within its sac.
X 280.
Fig.
18.
 Outline of a nearly empty spermatheca.
The line aa shows the form of the same partly distended.
X ISO.
Plate XXXIII.
 Lininodrilus subsalsus figs.
19 to 22.
Figs.
19 and 20.
 Ventral and dorsal setse respectively from somite VI.
X280.
Fig.
21.
 Side aew of the entire male genital duct combined from several dissections.
X about 100.
Fig.
22.
 A spermatheca shown in outline.
X about 100.
Lumbricillus agilis figs.
23 to 28.
Fig.
23.
 Tliree dorsal and a one ventral setse.
X 33.5.
Fig.
24.
 Outline of brain from above.
X 150.
Fig.
2.5.
 The two forms of calomic corpuscles.
X 335.
Fig.
26.
 A nephridium from life.
X225.
Fig.
27.
 Dorsal view of one of the male genital ducts.
Drawn from a living worm.
X55.
Fig.
28.
 A spermatheca showing communication with oesophagus above and external opening below.
X HO.
Monopylephorus parvus figs.
29 to 34.
Fig.
29.
 A strongly bifid seta from the ventral bundle of VI a a shghtly forked one from a dorsal bundle b tips of three from the posterior region.
X280.
Fig.
30.
 Two coelomic corpuscles.
X280.
Fig.
31.
 Outline of the brain from above.
X 180.
Fig.
32.
 Outline of both male genital ducts in situ as seen from the ventral surface of the body.
X 180.
Fig.
33.
 A transverse section passing through the male pore.
X 180. at atria b genital bursa dv dorsal bloodvessel in intestine n nerve cord p prostate gland ss sperm sac cf  common orifice of male ducts.
Fig.
34.
 Outline of spermatheca.
X280.
A CONTEIBTJTION TO THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE ACEIDID ORTHOPTERA OF COSTA RICA.
BY JAMES A. G. REHN.
The following study was based on a series of two hundred and ninetyone specimens from various localities in Costa Rica and in the collections of the Academy Mr. lorgan Hebard of Chestnut Hill Philadelphia and the United States National Museum.
These collections were represented respectively by one hundred and fiftynine one hundred and twelve and twenty specimens.
The author wishes to thank Mr. Hebard and Dr. Ashmead of the National Museiun for permission to study portions of the material and for other favors rendered during the preparation of this and other papers.
It is proposed to follow this contribution at a later date with others on the Tettigonidte and Gryllidte of Costa Rica interesting collections of which are now in hand.
Subfamily ACRIDIN.E TruxaUnce Axict .
.
TRTJXALIS Fabricius.
1775.
Truxalis Fabricius Syst.
En torn. p. 279.
Included nasutus and brevicornis of which the latter is the type nastitus being one of the two congeneric species on which linnaeus based the genus Acrida.
Truxalis brevicornis Johansson.
1763.
GriUus brevicornis Johansson Amcen.
Acad. 'I p. 398.
America septentrionali.
San Carlos Costa Rica.
Schild and Burgdorf.
U. S. N. M.J One female.
Carrillo Costa Rica.
Hebard collection.
Ten males ten females.
Both color phases are represented some of the females having distinct though small maculations on the axillary field of the tegmina.
SILVITETTIX Bruner.
1904.
Silvitettix Bruner Biol.
Cent.Amer. Orth. II p. 55.
Type. 5. communis Bruner.
Silvitettix oommunis Bruner.
1904.
Silvitettix communis Brvmer Biol.
Cent.Amer. II p. 56.
Monte Redondo Juan Vefias and Pozo Azul Costa Rica.
Carrillo Costa Rica.
Hebard collection.
Three males four females.
Monte Reclondo Costa Rica.
January 1903.
C. F.
Underwood.
A. N. S.
Phila.
Two males four females.
Escazu.
Costa Rica.
January 1903.
C. F.
Underwood.
A. N. S.
Phila.
One male.
The variation in color noticed in the original description is apparent in the series studied.
AMBLYTROPIDIA Stil.
1873.
Ambhjtropidia Stal Recensio Orthopterorum I p. 107.
Type.
 A. ferruginosa Stal.
Amblytropidia costaricensis Bruner.
1904.
Ambhjtropidia costaricensis Bruner Biol.
Cent.Amer. Orth. 11 p. 66.
GreytoATi Nicaragua San Jose Costa Rica.
Monte Redondo Costa Rica.
January 1903.
C. F.
Underwood.
A. N. S.
Phila.
One immature female.
ORPHULELLA GiglioTos.
1894.
Orphidella GidioTos Boll.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino IX No.
184 p. 10.
Included punctata De Geer iniricata Stal gracilis and elegans GiglioTos of which the first may be taken as the type.
Orphulella punctata De Geer.
1773.
Acrydium punctatinn De Geer Alni.
Hist.
Ins. Ill p. .503 t. 42 fig.
12.
Surinam.
Tarbaca Costa Rica.
November 1902.
C. F.
Underwood.
A. N. S.
Phila.
One female.
Guatel Costa Rica.
April 1902.
C. F.
Underwood.
A. N. S.
Phila.
One female.
These specimens are referred here with some little doubt but no material difference is detected on comparison with a female of 0. punctata from St. Vincent West Indies.
Orphulella costaricensis Bruner.
1904.
Orphulella costaricensis Bruner Biol.
Cent.Amer. Orth. II p. 82.
San Jose Costa Rica.
Tarbaca Costa Rica.
November 1902.
C. F.
Underwood.
A. N. S.
Phila.
One female.
Guatel Costa Rica.
April 1902.
C. F.
Underwood.
A. N. S.
Phila.
Three males eighteen females.
Monte Redondo Costa Rica.
January 1903.
C. F.
Underwood.
A. N. S.
Phila.
Eight males five females.
This species is extremely variable in color as noticed by Bruner a great range of types being exhibited by the material studied.
None of the specimens exhiljit the median carina of the fastigium described by Bruner.
Subfamily EDIPODIN.
LACTISTA Saussure.
Lactista punctata Stl.
Monte Redondo Costa Rica.
Janiiar 1903.
C. F.
Underwood.
A. N. S.
Phila.
One male one female.
These specimens have the median carina of the pronotum lower than in specimens from the States of Tamaulipas and Vera Cruz Mexico and the bluish tint of the caudal tibiae is weaker and more fuscous in character.
A specimen from San Marcos Nicaragua C. F. Baker agrees with the Costa Rican individuals in the points of difference from the Mexican type.
The differences are however so slight that they appear unworthy of specific recognition.
HELIASTTJS Saussure.
Heliastus costarioensis n. sp.
Type 9  Turrialba Costa Rica.
Schild and Burgdorf.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. No.
8173.
Closely allied to H. aztecus Saussure from northern Mexico but differing in the narrower and deeper fastigium the deeper sulcation of the frontal costa the more prominent eyes and the less sellate pronotiun.
Size medium about equal to that of H. sumickrasti  form moderately robust.
Head very slightly elevated above the level of the pronotum occiput moderately ascending fastigium distinctly declivent and passing without any angle into the frontal costa interocular region about twice as wide as the frontal costa vertex and fastigium slightly excavated with a very slight median and distinct lateral carinae fastigium gradually narrowing to the frontal costa which is broadly and distinctly sulcate with prominent carinae becoming obsolete a short distance ventrad of the median ocellus  antennae distinctly exceeding the head and pronotum in length.
Pronotum very slightly sellate the dorsal outline but slightly depressed at the transverse sulci all three of Avhich are distinct and well marked cephalic margin slightly arcuate caudal margin obtuseangulate with the angle somewhat rounded median carina very slight cephalad obsolete between the sulci slight but distinct on the metazona humeral angle very distinct on the metazona but rounded surface of the metazona rugosopunctate lateral lobes deeper than long sulci very distinct the ventro1905.
403 caudal angle subrotundate and not produced.
Tegmina exceeding the tips of the abdomen and the caudal femora by the length cephalocaudal of the head subequal in width the costal dilation apparent but not very large apex obliquely truncatorotundate intercalary vein indistinct irregular and of an indefinite character.
Wings equal to the tegmina in length when closed costal margin a very faint reverse curve in outline apex rather bluntly rounded.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes twice as broad as long  interval between the metasternal lobes about three times as broad as long.
Caudal femora robust the genicular region not strongly enlarged tibice slightly but distinctly shorter than the femora.
Fig.
1.
Heliastus costaricensis n. sp.
Fig.
3.
TTe. Fig.
1 dorsal view fig.
2 cephalic view of head fig.
3 lateral view.
General color above raw umber becoming fawn color on the sides of the head and pronotum.
Head distinctly punctate with blackishbrown antennae fawn annulate with blackishbrown the annuli of each color increasing in size distad  eyes dark ferruginous.
Pronotum with the metazona finely and closely punctulate with blackishbrown.
Tegmina with two irregular transverse bands made up of burntumber annuli one band median the other premedian the principal longitudinal veins are accompanied by rows of annuli of the same color and size but more sparsely distributed and absent from the apical fomth which is almost entirely hyaline the median section of the tegmen bears over all a faint but noticeable bloom of ecrudrab such as is found in some other species of the genus.
Wings with the disk scarletvermilion fuscous band rather faint prout's brown in color and alsent toward the costal margin ulnar taenia very slight apex slightly suffused and the apical half of the costal margin strongly and narrowly marked with vandyke brown.
Abdomen fawn color.
Caudal femora dorsad and ventrad cinnamon clouded with mars brown lateral face dull hoary with a median streak of blueblack varying in length on the two femora extending nearly the entire length in one and not passing the middle in the other genicular region blackish internal face gallstone yellow with two bars of black one of which suffuses the ventral sulcus.
Caudal tibiae greenishwhite at the base immediate base blackish distal half scarlet separated by an annulus of blackish  spine tipped with blackish.
Measurements.
Length of body 28 mm.
Length of pronotum 5.5  Caudal waclth of pronotum 5 Jiength of tegmen 25 Greatest width of tegmen 4.5  Greatest width of wing 12.5 Length of caudal femur 13.5   The type is the only specimen seen.
Subfamily PYRGOMORPHIN.C.
PROSPHENA Bolivar.
1884.
Prosphena Bolivar Anal.
Soc.
Espafi.
Hist.
Nat. XIII p. 447.
Type.
 P. scudderi Bolivar.
Prosphena scudderi Bolivar.
1884.
Prosphena Scudderi Bolivar Anal.
Soc.
Espan.
Hist.
Nat. XIII p. 447.
Guatemala.
Tarbaca Costa Rica.
November and December 1902.
C. F.
Underwood.
A. N. S.
Phila.
Three males.
Previously known only from the type locality.
The specimens range in color from greenishyellow to dull green the tegmina solid dull brownish the caudal tibiae and tarsi suffused with crimson to a variable extent the spines yellow with the tips black.
Subfamily LOCUSTIN.
MTJNATIA Stl.
1875.
Munatia Stal Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.Akad.
Handl. Ill No.
14 p. 28.
Type.
 M. punctata Stal.
1905.
405 Munatia punctata Stal.
j xj ji 1875.
Munaiia punctata Stal Bihang till K. SvenskalYet.Akad.
Handl. Ill No.
14 p. 28.
Chiriqui.
Tucurrique Costa Rica.
SchUd and Burgdorf.
U. S. N. M. One male.
Turrialba Costa Rica.
Schild and Burgdorf.
U. S. N. M. One Carrillo Costa Rica.
Hebard collection.
One immature male one immature female.
Fig.
4 Fig.
5.
Munatia punctata Stal.Fig.
4 tegmen and wing of male  fig.
5 tegmen and wing oi female.
As far as can be determined from Stal's very brief diagnosis these specimens represent this species.
The male does not present four blackish spots on the sides of the thorax but has the median elytral stripe faintly indicated as well as possessing a very distinct longitudinal stripe of yellowish on the anal area.
The female is more uniformly colored than the male and has the yellowishgreen disk more suffused with fuscous.
COLPOLOPHA Stl.
1873.
Colpolopha Stal Ofversigt af K. Vetensk.Akad.
Forhandlingar 1873 No.
4 pp.
52 53.
Type.
 C. sinuata Stal.
Colpolopha bruneri n. sp.
TjqDes d and 9  IMonte Redondo Costa Rica.
January 1903 d.
Tarbaca Costa Rica.
December 1902 .
C. F. Underwood.
A. N. S.
Phila.
Apparently allied to C. sinuata from Peru and New Granada but differing in the color of the wings and the smaller size.
Little else can be made from Stal's very insufficient description but the later remarks made by Pictet and Saussure show that the new form is close to sinuata.
From obsoleta it can readily be distinguished by the smaller size more robust form shorter and more acute tegmina more elevated median carina of the pronotum and the heavier fastigium.
Fig.
6.
Fig.
7.
Colpolopha bruncri n. sp.
Type male.
Fig.
6 dorsal view fig.
7 lateral view.
Size small for the genus body distinctly compressed and semiscabrous.
Head with the occiput slightly elevated and rounded in the female plane in the male fastigium strongly produced but slightly shorter than the greatest length of the eye subequal in the basal half and but slightly narrower than the interocular space apex rectangulate in the male rounded in the female broadly and shallowly excavated with a slight but distinct median carina continued back over the occiput margins distinct and continued over the rostrum forming the ' Comparison made with a male from Demerara and a female from Cayenne.
lateral carinse of the frontal costa lateral foveolse subtrigonal subobsolete frontal costa snlcate parallel above the ocellus expanding below and reaching the clypeal margin accessory facial carinse distinct eyes ovate in the male subelliptical in the female slightly longer than the infraocular portion of the gense in the male slightly shorter in the female antennae depressed slightly ensiform slightly longer than the pronotum in the male distinctly shorter in the female.
Pronotum with the median crest rising evenly from the cephalic margin to within a very short distance of the apex of the caudal process where it is roundly and raggedly excised into a semicrescentic outline  transverse sulci distinctly and narrowly but not deeply cutting the crest cephalic margin produced over the base of the occiput in a very acute harpoonshaped process caudal margin produced into a structure of similar character but of much greater size lateral carinae distinct bluntly tuberculate lateral lobes of the pronotum distinctly longer than deep.
Prosternal spine erect short thick and rather blunt.
Tegmina short not reaching the apex of the abdomen and falling far short of the tips of the caudal femora subsagittate the apex acute costal expansion distinct but short siuface subcoriaceous irregularly reticulate.
Wings twothirds the length of the tegmina the apex acuteangulate.
Cephalic and median limbs short the femora slightly but distinctly expanded distad.
Caudal femora slightly compressed considerably enlarged proximad and distinctly constricted in the pregenicular region carinse denticulate the dorsal carina serratodentate tibiae slightly shorter than the femora spines nine in number on each margin those of the internal considerably longer and more curved than those of the external caudal tarsi slender the third joint distinctly shorter than the metatarsus.
General color vandyke brown in the female raw umber in the male the whole surface sprinkled with small blackishbrown points which on account of the base color are less conspicuous in the female than in the male.
Eyes burnt umber.
Pronotum with the lateral carinae lined with blackishbrown on the prozona.
Tegmina of the male vandyke brown with a semicircular pale spot at the base of the costal expansion a marking which is very faintly indicated in the female.
Wings vermilion apex and a rather dull taenia which extends to the base of the wing Vandyke brown the costal vermilion dull.
Abdomen with the overlying maculations clear black.
Caudal femora with a distinct pepper and salt appearance caudal tibiae very dull glaucous spines suffused with blackish.
Measurements.
Length of body 22 mm.
39.5 mm.
Length of pronotum 10  15.5  Greatest width of pronotum 4.2  7  Length of tegmen 13  22.5  Width of tegmen 3.5  6.5  Length of caudal femur 14.2  21  Two parat3'pic males have been examined in addition to the types.
I take pleasure in dedicating this species to Prof. Lawrence Bruner of the University of Nebraska who has made and is making valuable contributions to our knowledge of American Acrididse.
CIBOTOPTERYXn. gen.
Type.
 C. variegata n. sp.
Allied to Ekeochlora Stal but differing in the elevated and lobate median crest of the pronotum the strongly tuberculodentate lateral caringe of the same and the short peculiarly shaped tegmina.
Occiput rounded rostrum projecting and separated from the interocular region by a distinct transverse depression frontal costa not sinuate when viewed laterad antennae very slightly depressed.
Pronotum with a distinct median crest deeply cut b' the transverse sulci Fig.
8.
 Cibotopterix variegata n. gen. and sp.
Lateral view of type.
and distinctly trilobate on the prozona lateral carinte tuberculate parallel and descending ventrad on the prozonal lobes.
Prosternal spine short erect and acute.
Tegmina short not reaching the apex of the abdomen rectangulate distad.
Cephalic and median femora moderately inflated  caudal femora rather slender and weak.
Cibotopteryx variegata n. sp.
Type d  Guatel Costa Rica.
August 1902.
C. F. Underwood.
A. N. S.
Phila.
 KijSuroc ctiest 7repif  wing.
1905.
409 Fig.
9.Cibotopteryx rariegata.
Dorsal view of pronotuni and tegmina of type.
Size medium  surface of pronotum rugosotuberculate of remainder of body subglabrous.
Head with the occiput evenly rounded both longitudinally and transversely dipping rather sharply down to the base of the fastigium fastigium extending a distance cephalad of the eyes equal to the interspace moderately elevated acute margins rather low but distinctly and roundly raised above the slightly excavated center apex when viewed laterad rounding into the frontal costa lateral foveolse very slight and indistinct trigonal frontal costa narrow rather strongly sulcate equal in width above the ocellus except for the dorsal constriction slighth inflated at the ocellus distinctly constricted then regularly but slightly expanding below reaching the clypeal margin accessory facial carinre quite prominent eyes subovate slightly shorter than the intraocular portion of the gense prominent when viewed dorsad antennre slightly exceeding the pronotum in length.
Pronotimi with the prozona moderately inflated deeply cut by the transverse sulci  median crest rather high and developed into three quadrate lobes on the prozona lower and evenly arched on the metazona lateral carina
tuberculate bent ventrad at an angle of 45 cephalad of the second transverse sulcus and joining the cephalic margin at the ventrocephalic angle margins tuberculate cephalic very broadly obtuseangulate with the angle truncate caudal produced with concave sides and acute apex caudal margin of the lateral lobes distinctly oblique ventral margin subrotundate with the ventrocephalic margin moderately distinct.
Tegmina with the costal margin rather strongly arcuate the apex rectangulate anal area very slightly arciate.
Wings slightly shorter than the tegmina and completely covered by the same.
Abdomen with the apex elevated subgenital plate covered by the large lamellate cerci which meet on the median line  supraanal plate with the apex rectangulate.
Cephalic and median femora slender proximad moderately but distinctly inflated mesad and distad.
Caudal femora slender very slightly bowed with the proximal inflation very slight the genicular margin with a slight median spine tibise about equal to the femora in length spines nine in nimiber on each margin those of the internal margin much longer and more curved than those of the external margin internal spurs much longer than the external tarsi of moderate length the metatarsus and third joint subequal in length.
General color above olivegreen slightly paler on the tegmina than on the dorsum of the head and pronotum face genae a diagonal line immediately dorsad of the lateral carinae on the cephalic half of the prozona and a diagonal bar on the caudal half of the lateral lobes chrome yellow the lastmentioned streak being darker and more ochraceous.
Frontal costa and mouth parts of the dorsal color eyes chestnut antenna3 dragon's blood red infuscate apically dorsal median oblique streak on the lateral lobes of the pronotum suffused with blackish transverse sulci marked slightly with blackish.
Tegmina with the longitudinal veins distinctly and the cross veins slightly marked with wax yellow on a ground of the general color.
Cephalic and median femora olive green caudal femora between apple green and oil green the ventral face glaucous blue genicular margin with a narrow edging of rufous cephalic and median tibiae and tarsi dull ferruginous caudal tibiae and tarsi poppy red the spines and spurs narrowly tipped with black.
Measurements.
Length of body 23 mm.
Length of pronotum 10 Greatest width of pronotum 5. Length of tegmen 11 Width of tegmen 6 Length of caudal femur 17 The type is the only specimen known to the author.
T.ENIOPODA Stl.
Tseniopoda oenturio Drury.
1773.
Grylliis Lociista Centurio Drury Illust.
Nat.
Hist.
Exot.
Ins. p. 78 PI.
XLI fig.
3 and Index.
Bay of Honduras in America.
San Carlos Costa Rica.
Schild and Burgdorf.
U. S. N. M. Two males one female.
This species has never before been recorded south of Hondiuas.
One male has the general color decidedly purplishblack the usual blotches on the tegmina absent and the veins pale against the solid dark ground.
Taeniopoda varipennis n. sp.
Types  J  Central America.
Hebard collection.
9  San Jose Costa Rica.
Schild and Burgdorf.
U. S. N. M. No.
8174.
Allied to T. auricornis Walker and T. pulchella Bolivar.
From the former it differs in the slenderer form and more produced caudal process of the pronotum and the longer and narrower tegmina.
From T. pvlchella it can be separated immediately by the slenderer form and the shape of the caudal process of the pronotnm. '
Size medium for the genus  male moderately slender female short and heyy built.
Head with the occiput and vertex rounded subglobose  interspace between the eyes equal to the length of the eye in the female equal to the width of the eye in the male fastigium broad subrectangulate very distinctly declivent slightly excavated the lateral carinae more marked than the rather faint median one frontal costa very narrow deeply sulcate evanescent immediately below the median ocellus  lateral carinae of the face distinct but not very sharp  eyes quite prominent and elliptical oval in the male moderately jDrominent and subovate in the female antennae slightly depressed proximad in an imperfect state slightly shorter than the head and pronotum.
Pronotum compressed metazona slightly longer than the prozona median keel strongly elevated compressed roughly arcuate on the prozona deeply slit but not distinctly divided by two transverse sulci the caudal section being slightly higher than the cephalic caudal Fig.
10.
 Tceniopoda varipennis n. sp.
Male type.
transverse sulcus deeply dividing the median keel metazona with the keel strongly arcuate lateral portions of the disk flattened humeral angles very distinct not extending much cephalad of the last sulcus cephalic margin produced over the head in a small subrectangulate c
or obtuseangulate 
process caudal margin produced into a long and distinctly hastate process in the male and an acuteangulate one in'the female lateral lobes considerably longer than deep.
Tegmina rather broad costal border distinctly arcuate apex rounded with a faint oblique truncation  in the male exceeding the apex of the abdomen by twothirds the length of the pronotimi in the female not exceeding the apex of the abdomen.
Wings with the expanded portion of the axillary field broader distad than proximad and with the cross veins oblique second lobe strongly developed particularly so in the female.
Prosternal spine long erect acute.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes strongly transverse the lateral angles rounded.
27 412 June Interspace between the metasternal lobes about twice as wide as deep in the male three times as wide as deep in the female.
Limbs of the slender type usual in the genus the caudal femora distinctly exceedingFig.
11.
 Tocniopoda varipennis n. sp.
Male type.
the apex of the abdomen in the male falling slightly short of the same in the female.
General color above gallstone yellow with a strong greenish tinge on the tegmina becoming more ochraceous on the pronotum and head.
Head with the mandibles and a transverse line on the clypeus shining black in the female the base of the mandibles suffused with ochraceous in the male antennae orpiment yellow the two basal joints shining black eyes hazel.
Tegmina with an irregularly distributed series of seal brown spots of varying size apex narrowly and rather obscurely margined with the same color.
Wings geranium red the margins except the proximal portion of the radial margin broadly suffused with black the dilated ulnar and axillary regions also colored as usual in the genus.
Abdomen blackishbrown.
Limbs dull ochraceous and black the two distributed as in other species of genus.
Measurements.
Ijength of body 35.5 mm.
53 mm.
Length of pronotum 14.5  19  Greatest width of pronotum 7  10 '' Length of tegmen 33  36  Greatest width of tegmen 10  11  Greatest width of wing 18.2  17.5 '' Length of caudal femur 23.5 ' 25.5  Two specimens have been examined in addition to the types both of which are males one topotypic of the same sex and in the Hebard collection the other topotypic with the female and in the United States National Museum.
These specimens are identical with the male type in all essential respects some slight variation in the distribution of spots on the tegmina being all that is noticed.
The San Jose male has the antennae but very slightly damaged and from this we see that the terminal joints are blackish.
The genus Tceniopoda as represented by the material in hand falls into two groups.
All the known species are at hand except T. superba Stal and gutterosa Bolivar which appear to be quite distinct from the forms studied.
The eightynine specimens examined can be divided usually into two groups as separated by Bolivar in his key of the genus. One type represented by pidicornis Walker and hurmeisteri Bolivar is characterized by the rather low and rather indistinctly biarcuate median crest of the pronotum.
The other type represented by centurio Drury auricornis Walker pulchella Bolivar and varipennis Rehn is characterized by the elevated strongly biarcuate median crest of the pronotum while T. tamaulipensis Rehn is about intermediate between the two types.
3 Bol.
Soc.
Espafi.
Hist.
Nat. I p. 265 1901.
414 June The type represented by centurio is especially interesting as all the species are in hand and their differential characters easily seen.
Driiry's centurio is quite distinct from the others and need not be considered as its size is diagnostic.
The three others  auricornis pulciella and varipennis  can be easily separated by the outline of the dorsal aspect of the pronotum jmJchella representing an extreme broad inflated type with an almost rectangulate caudal angle fig.
14 varipennis fig.
12 representing the other extreme with the pronotum compressed and the caudal angle strongly and acutely produced.
Between these two extremes is auricornis presenting a rather broad pronotvmi with the angle acute but not long produced fig.
13.
Fig.
12.
Fis.
13.
Fig.
14.
Fig.
12.
 Teniopoda varipennis dorsal view of female type.
Fig.
13.
 T. auricornis ditto of female from Alta Mira Tamaulipas.
Fig.
14.
 T. pulchella ditto of female from Jalapa Vera Cruz.
CHROMACRIS Walker.
Chromacris trogon Gerstaecker.
1873.
Romalea trogon Gerstaecker Stett.
Entom.
Zeit. XXIII p. 186.
Costa Rica.
San Carlos Costa Rica.
Schild and Burgdorf.
U. S. N. M. Five males three females.
Pozo Azul de Pirris Costa Rica.
MayJune 1903.
C. F. Underwood.
A. N. S.
Phila.
One male.
Carrillo Costa Rica.
Hebard collection.
Seven males two females.
This series is remarkably uniform in coloration.
EHICNODERMA Gerstaecker.
1889.
Rhicnoderma Gerstaecker Mittheil.
Naturwiss.
Ver.
Neu'orpomm.
Riigen XX p. 28 Type.
 R. olivaceum Gerstaecker.
 This is the species previously recorded bv mvself as T. centurio see Trans.
Amer.
Ent.
Soc. XXVII p. 228 f XXIX p. 12.
1905.
415 Bhionoderma hutaile n. sp.
Type 9  Tarbaca Costa Rica.
December 1902.
C. F. Underwood.
A. N. S.
Phila.
Fig.
1.5.
 Rhicnoderma humile n. sp.
Lateral view of type.
Allied to R. olivaceum from Chiriqui but differing in the very low and weak median carina of the pronotum the partially sulcate frontal costa and some color details.
Form subcylindrical flattened ventrad  surface of the head thoracic and basal abdominal segments regularly rugulose smoother on the abdomen and ventral surface limbs and ventral surface supplied with rather long soft hairs which are most numerous on the caudal tibiae.
Head flattened transversely but little deeper than broad occiput and vertex gently rounded fastigium depressed declivent longitudinally excavated mesad separated from the face by a low carina interocular space considerably wider than the width of the eye frontal costa considerably excavated intersected by a transverse carina between the bases of the antennae about which is an oblong enclosed space below constricted from the width of the dorsal section to half the same width ventrad failing to reach the clypeal suture supplementary facial carina
distinct  clypeus considerably inflated  eyes elliptically ovate distinctly longer than the infraocular portion of the genae  antennae about equal to the head and pronotum in length filiform.
Pronotum short  cephalic margin slightly rounded with a distinct median emargination which forms two blunt points on each side of the median line  caudal margin subtruncate median carina very slightly marked and more noticeable by the absence of rugosities than any distinct elevaFig.
16. Rhicnoderma humile n. sp.
Cephalic view of head.
tion  complete transverse sulci three in number the caudal one placed close to the caudal margin the cephalic sulcus distant from the cephalic margin a distance equal to the space from the second sulcus to the caudal margin interspaces between the first second and third sulci subequal dorsad lateral lobes much deeper than long cephalic and caudal margins subparallel ventral margin rotundate emarginate cephalad.
No tegmina or wings present.
Exposed portion of the mesonotum less than half as long as the metanotum median carina on both segments marked as on pronotum.
Abdomen very slightly compressed distinctly but slightly carinate.
Ovipositor jaws rather blunt.
Presternum with a low quadrate process with blunt slightly produced angles.
Mesosternum and metasternum distinctly concave.
Cephalic femora slightly bowed inflated with several depressed areas on the caudal face and a distinct carina on the superior portion of the cephalic face cephalic genicular lobe more produced and rotundate than the caudal one tibiae equal in length and but slightly slenderer than the femora straight terminal tarsal joint very distinctly exceeding the basal two in length.
Median femora about equal in the length to the cephalic femora compressed several slight or irregular carinse present cephalic genicular lobe large and rotundate caudal genicular lobe ver slight and little more than a cingulum  tibise and tarsi as in the cephalic limbs.
Caudal femora not reaching to the apex of the abdomen about four and onehalf times as long as the greatest Avidth compressed margins regularly but slightly arcuate pregenicular constriction slight carina distinct the median dorsal slightly serratodentate pattern of the pagina distinct but flattened and with little relief genicular arch rather low genicular lobes rectangulate apically with the ventral margin rotundatosinuate  tibiae slightly shorter than the femora lateral margins with seven rather blunt spines including the apical one internal margins with ten spines including the apical one metatarsus and terminal tarsal joint subequal in length second joint distinctly shorter than the others the whole tarsus about half the length of the tibia.
General color cinnamon eyes russet.
iMargins of the pronotum and caudal margins of the metanotum and basal abdominal segments narrowly washed with a more or less distinct blackishbrown suffusion.
Median limbs dull brownish caudad.
Caudal femora marked along the lateral and median carinae and on the whole genicular faces with blackishbrown dorsal portion of the genicular region ochre yellow distad caudal face of the caudal femora blackish except for a narrow ochre yellow edging to the genicular region.
Caudal tibiae and tarsi cephalad vinaceouscinnamon caudad dragon's blood red spines with a small apical touch of black.
Hairs of the limbs and ventral siu'face silvery white.
Measurements.
Length of body 32 mm.
Length of pronotimi 4.5  Greatest width of pronotum 6.7  Length of exposed portion of mesoand metanotum .
.
.
7.2  Length of caudal femur 14.5 '' The type is the only specimen seen.
COPIOCERA Burmeister.
.1838.
Copiocera Burmeister Handb.
d.
Entom. Bd.
II Abth.
II I p. 611.
Included Gryllus euceros larschall and Xiphicera erythrogastra Perty of which the former may be considered the type.
Copiocera speoularis Gerstaecker.
1889.
Copiocera specularis Gerstaecker Mittheil.
Naturwissen.
Ver.
NeuVorpomm.
Riigen XX p. 35.
Chiriqui.
 San Carlos Costa Rica.
Schild and Burgdorf.
U. S. N. M. Four males two females.
Fig.
17.
 Copiocera specularis Gerstaecker.
Male.
Dorsal view.
418 June Turrialba Costa Rica.
Schild and Burgdorf.
U. S. N. M.j One male.
This beautiful species can readily be recognized by the coloration the bloodred abdomen dull yellow genicular areas and the bluishFig.
18.
 Copiocera specidaris Gerstaecker.
Male.
Lateral view.
hyaline base of the wing.
Some variation exists in the intensity of the color of the abdomen several individuals being very dull gray brown with hardly any reddish tint while others are fully colored.
The colored base of the wing is more greenish than bluish in one female individual.
EDAL0MET0P0N5 n. gen.
Type.
 0.
'petasatum n. sp.
Apparently allied to Bucephalacris GiglioTos but the whole structure has a different aspect the form heavier more inflated and quite different when taken in detail.
Head with the fastigium considerably produced face subconcave when viewed laterad.
Pronotum sulDselliform with the transverse carinae strongly impressed caudal portion produced and rounded.
Tegmina and wings present.
Prosternal spine very blunt and low.
Interspaces between the mesosternal and metasternal lobes subequal cephalad the metasternal interspace strongly narrowed caudad.
Caudal femora inflated strongly carinate and all carinoe serratodentate genicular region inflated  caudal tibiae with apical spines on both sides caudal tarsi elongate more than twothirds the length of the tibiae arolia present.
Edalometopon petasatum n. sp.
Type 9  Carrillo Costa Rica.
Hebard collection.
Fig.
.
19. Edalo7netopon petasatum n. gen. and sp.
Type. '
Oi6a2.eoVj swelling ietuttov forehead.
Form subfusiform entire surface except the abdomen and ventral aspect rugose.
Head with the occiput and vertex gently rounded descending to the extremely narrow interocular space fastigium horizontal  produced from the interocular region at a level well below that of the vertex into a peglike process about as long as the width of one of the eyes compressed faintly sulcate dorsad expanding proximad apex when viewed laterad rotundatotruncate face retreating subconcave when viewed laterad frontal costa present as a slight short sulcation on the ventral aspect of the fastigial process lateral ocelli placed on the dorsal aspect of the proximal part of the fastigium median ocellus placed in the middle of the sulcation of the frontal costa eyes ovate the greatest length diagonal greatest length slightly greater than the infraocular portion of the gense antennae broken in the type.
Pronotum rounded subselliform no median or lateral carinse present  cephalic margin slightly rotundate with a broad shallow median emargination caudal margin rounded rectangulate no distinct angle present transverse sulci strongly imFig.
2C.
 Qdalomelopon petasatum n. gen. and sp.
Type.
pressed three in number prozona slightly longer than the metazona lateral lobes slightly longer than deep cephalic margin slightly arcuate ventral margin emarginate cephalad broadly subrotundate caudad caudal margin with the dorsal half with a distinct but very shallow emargination the ventral half with a blunt angle which rounds into the ventral margin a longitudinal group of irregular callosities presented in the usual position of the lateral carina.
Tegmina broken siuface coriaceous rugose.
Wings broken.
Abdomen somewhat compressed carinate above ovipositor jaws weak slender unarmed.
Prosternal spine a blunt cone cpadrate in basal outline.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes slightly wider than deep as wide as the lobes themselves angles slightly rounded interspace between the metasternal lobes equal to the mesosternal interspace cephalad constricted caudad to slightly less than half that width.
Cephalic femora moderately robust about twothirds the length of the pronotum.
Median femora similar to the cephalic but larger only slightly shorter than the pronotum.
Cephalic and median tarsi with the two proximal joints short the terminal only moderately long the whole rather robiLst.
Caudal femora robust twothirds the length of the body slightly more than four times as long as broad median and lateral carinas distinct serratodentate pattern of the pagina dentatotuberculate genicular region large slightly less than onefoiuth the total length strongly arched genicular lobes apically acute rotundatoemarginate below pregenicular constriction very distinct caudal tibiae distinctly shorter tnan the femora supplied with eight spines on each margin including the apical spurs of the internal margin longer than the external spurs caudal tarsi slender elongate twothirds the length of the tibiae the segments increasing in length distad surface rather evenly clothed with long hairs.
General color above brownisholive green the head and pronotum with spots of naples yellow a line of the same on the angle of the tegmina and a broad bar widening caudad extending from the antennal fossae to the insertion of the median limbs across the whole ventral portion of the lateral lobes of the pronotiun.
Eyes tawnyolive lined diagonally with regular bars of olivebrown the wellmarked bars being six in number apex of the fastigial process suffused with dull lake red.
Cephalic and median limbs oil green the proximal portions of the tibiae darkening to parrot green.
Caudal femora apple green the serrations and tubercles of the pagina black genicular regions ochraceousbuif  the arches blackish  tibiae proximad dull ochraceousbuff  blending to oil green then to ochraceousbuff distad spines black practically to the bases spurs tipped with black tarsi ochraceousbuff the claws oil green with black tips hair white.
Measurements.
Length of body 27.5 nun.
Length of pronotum 7.5  Caudal dorsal width of pronotum 5.7  Length of caudal femur IS.
2  The type is unique.
ANNICERIS Stai.
1878.
Anniceris Stal Bihans till K. Svenska Vet.Akad.
Handlingar V No.
4 pp.
37 82.
Included A. geniculatus and nigriyicrvis Stal of which the former may be considered the type.
Annioeris truncatus n. sp.
Type 
 Tarbaca Costa Rica.
November 1902.
C. F. Underwood.
A. N. S.
Phila.
Allied to A. geniculatus Stal from Peru and A. olivoxeus GiglioTos from Darien differing from the former in the horizontal fastigium the uncarinate vertex and the rather different coloration differing from the latter in the moderately distinct lateral carinse of the face and the more subdned color pattern.
Fig.
21.
 Anniceris truncatus n. sp.
Lateral view of tj'pe.
Size small  form slightly compressed  sm'f ace rugulose.
Head with the occiput and vertex gently rounded descending easily to the base of the fastigium  interocular region narrow slightly more than half the apical width of the fastigium fastigium broad at the base tapering evenly with a truncate apex apical width about twice the length dorsal surface slightly excavate near the cingulate margin frontal costa not distinct below the insertion of the antennte very slightly sulcate face slightly retreating when viewed laterad  lateral ocelli inserted in the supraantennal margin of the base of the fastigium median below the insertion of the antennae and slightly above the base of the fastigial process  eyes subrenif orm moderately prominent slightly longer than the infraocular portion of the gense antennae missing.
Pronotum rotundatodeplanate dorsad  median carinas very weak more apparent caudad than cephalad  lateral carinse not present but distinct shoulders on the metazona represent them cephalic margin faintly arcuate caudal margin subtruncate transverse sulci three in nmnber the cephaUc and caudal more apparent than the median prozona almost half again as long as the metazona  lateral lobes of the pronotum distinctly deeper than long cephalic margin slightly sinuate ventral margin emarginate cephalad rotundate caudad caudal margin very slightly and broadly emarginate for its whole length a slight ventrocaudal angle developed above the level of the ventral margin.
Tegmina ovatelanceolate slightly longer than the pronotum breadth contained twice in the length apex narrowly rounded principal longitudinal veins distant remainder irregularly reticulate.
Abdomen compressed carinate above ovipositor jaws hooked apically.
Prosternal protuberance very low and blunt no spine present.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes wedgeshaped slightly narrower than one of the lobes but much wider than deep  interspace between the metasternal lobes about half the width of that between the mesosternal lobes constricted caudad.
Cephalic femora about fourfifths the length of the pronotum tibiae very slightly longer than the femora tarsi about threefourths the length of the tibiae.
Median limbs similar to the cephalic but slightly larger and more compressed.
Caudal femora moderately robust length equal to that of the head pronotum and tegmina greatest width at the basal fourth and contained about four times in the length pattern of the external pagina regular genicular region of medium size the lobes moderately acute with the ventral margin sinuatorotundate  tibiae very slightly shorter than the femora slightly sinuate six spines present on the external margin no apical spine eight spines present on the internal margin including the apical spine tarsi elongate the joints slender.
General color olivegreen lighter on the tegmina than on the head and pronotum  eyes tawnyolive.
An obscure postocular streak on the head and on the dorsal half of the prozona of the lateral lobes of the pronotum blackish ventral half of the lateral lobes and all of the pleura except a narrow blackish dorsal section very dull gambogeyellow.
Abdomen above vandyke brown except the apex which is ferruginous.
Ventral surface cinnamon.
Cephalic and median limbs oil green.
Caudal femora oil green the genicular region blackish  tibiae and tarsi verdigris green the spines narrowly tipped with blackish.
Measurements.
Length of body 17 mm.
Length of pronotum 4.1  Greatest dorsal width of pronotum 3.2  Length of tegmen 6  Greatest width of tegmen 3 '' Length of caudal femur 11.6  The type is unique DELLIA sti.
1S78.
Dellia Stal Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.
Akad.
Handl. V No.
4 pp 37 83.
Type.
 D. insulana Stal 1905.
423 Dellia miniatula n. sp.
Types  6 and 9  Carrillo Costa Rica.
Hebard collection.
Differing from D. insulana in the heavy cerci the smaller general tsize the recurved apex of the male abdomen and the general coloration.
Size small form elongate slightly compressed surface polished clothed with numerous hairs.
Head with the occiput considerably inflated descending to the extremely narrow interocular space fastigium short wedgeshaped the apex truncate with a very slight longitudinal sulcus when viewed laterad the dorsal outline descends and Fig.
22.
 DcUia miniatula n. sp.
Lateral view of male type.
rounds without any distinct angle in the regularly retreating face no distinct frontal costa lateral ocelH placed on the supraantennal margin of the fastigium the median placed near the point at which the fastigium blends into the face eyes subovoid very prominent and subglobose in the male considerably elevated above the occiput about twice as long as the infraocular portion of the gena moderately prominent and considerably inflated in the female slightly less than twice as long as the infraocular portion of the genae antennae very slender filiform about equal to the length of the body in the male about 'equal to the length of the abdomen in the female.
Pronotum rounded without median or lateral carinae metazona of male slightly and of female distinctly punctate cepnalic margin subarcuate the median portion slightly truncate caudal margin with a broad shallow angular emargination transverse sulci four in number very strongly impressed in the male weaker but distinct in the female metazona about onethird the length of the prozona lateral lobes slightly deeper than long the cephalic margin slightly sinuate ventral margin rotimdateemarginate cephalad subrotundate candad the ventrocephalic angle rectangulate caudal margin slightly sinuate with the ventrocaudal anglerounded obtuseangulate.
Exposed portion of the mesonotum slightly longer than the metazona in the males distinctly shorter in the female.
Tegmina minute pads not reaching caudad of the caudal margin of the mesonotum in either sex.
Abdomen compressed carinate above apex of the male abdomen strongly recurved cerci broad flattened subequal plates directed mesad the tips flattened and acute when viewed caudad caudal margin of the cerci thickened and forming a sort of ridge which projects laterad of the body of the cerci supraanal Fig.
23.
Fig.
24.
Fig.
25.
Fig.
23.
 Dellia miniafula dorsal view of apex of male abdomen.
Fig.
24.
 Dellia ovatipennis dorsal view of pronotvim and tegmina of type.
Fig.
25.
 Dellia bimaculata dorsal 'iew of apex of male abdomen.
plate vertical in position  subgenital plate on the dorsal aspect bullate apically produced into a triangular process.
Prosternum inflated mesad forming a transverse rounded ridge no spine developed.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes slightly broader than deep equal to one of the lobes in width the angles rounded interspace between the metasternal lobes very narrow trigonal nearly closed caudad.
Cephalic femora slightly longer than the pronotum in the male subequal in the female cephalic genicular lobe larger and more rotundate than the caudal tibise equal to the femora terminal tarsal joint much exceeding the proximal two in length the whole tarsus about threefourths the length of the tibia.
Median limbs similar ta the cephalic but perceptibly more robust.
Caudal femora slender in the male and considerably exceeding the abdomen in its normal position in the female more robust but exceeding the abdomen by nearly the length of the pronotum in the female the greatest width is contained over four times in the length and in the male the width is almost five times in the length carinse not serrate pattern of the pagina distinct and rather widely spaced genicular lobes slightly acute apically tibiae slightly shorter than the femora slightly sinuate in the male external margin with six spines internal margin with seven or eight spines in the male and eight in the female including the apical spine  tarsi about half the length of the tibise slender the terminal joint elongate arolia present.
Male.
 General colors greenishblack on an oil green ground.
Head wdth a dark occipital line and blackish postocular blotches dorsal aspect of the fastigium pale apple green ventral aspect and a median facial line blackish  eyes tawny olive  basal joints of the antennae blackish remainder umber mouth parts blackish except palpi which are greenishwhite.
Pronotum with two faint parallel greenish longitudinal bars on the prozona and a distinct patch of clear oil green on the ''shoulders of the metazona lateral lobes oil green ventrad.
Mesonotum and metanotum each with a pair of parallel blotches of oil green  lower section of the pleura yellowishgreen.
Abdomen with each segment decorated dorsad with a pair of subreniform blotches of oil green  laterad dull apple green ventrad the black of the segments is relieved by narrow pea green margins  subgenital plate with a large transverse subreniform spot of pea green supraanal plate pea green cerci black.
Cephalic limbs apple green blending to gamboge yellow on the proximal portion of the femora.
Median limbs with extreme distal portion of the femora the tibise and tarsi apple green median and proximal portions of the femora carmine.
Caudal femora oil green the genicular arch faintly marked with blackish  tibise oil green proximad blending to verdigris green on the median and distal sections spines brownish with black tips  tarsi very pale apple green.
Hairs ashy brown.
Female.
 Colors and color pattern similar to the male but duller and with the following exceptions.
Sulcation of the fastigium with a narrow line of blackish and the bars on the pronotum are much less distinct.
Dorsal maculations of the mesonotum metanotum and abdomen are solid forming a broad wedgeshaped maculation narrowing caudad on each segment apex of the abdomen and contiguous segments blackish.
Measurements.
Length of body 13.5 mm.
16 mm.
Length of pronotum 2.5  3.2  Greatest width of pronotum 2.2  3.1  Length of caudal femur 9  11  426 June A paratypic series of three males and sixteen females of this species have been examined.
There is a slight difference in the size of some female individuals several being slightly larger than the type.
A tendency to the elimination of blackish marks on the abdomen is noticed in some female individuals and in one the abdomen is about unicolorous.
Dellia bimaculata Types cJ and 9  Carrillo Costa Rica.
Hebard collection.
Differing from D. miniatula in the form of the male cerci the less recurved apex of the male abdomen and the striking coloration.
Size about equal to that of D. miniatula in the female sex slightly larger in the male form similar to that of D. miniatula surface slightly rugulose rather uniformly clothed with moderately long hairs especially on the limbs.
Head with the occiput rounded and sloping toward Fig.
26.
 Dellia himaculafa.
Lateral view of male type.
the fastigium interocular space very narrow in the male the eyes are subcontiguous  fastigium short about as broad as long distinctly but narrowly sulcate in both sexes forming a distinct but narrowly rounded angle with the front ventral aspect of fastigium slightly concave and passing insensibly into the face a very slight distance ventrad of the antennal iasertions eyes ovate and very prominent in the male considerably elevated above the vertex and almost twice as long as the infraocular portion of the gense subreniform in the female very slightly elevated above the vertex and slightly more than half again the infraocular length of the gense antennae filiform slightly .shorter than the body in the male considerably shorter in the female.
Pronotum slightly sellate  cephalic margin arcuate with a slight median truncation caudal margin with a broad shallow angular emargination  transverse sulci four in numler more impressed in the male than in the female prozona about twice the length of the metazona in the male about three times in the female lateral lobes slightly longer than deep cephalic margin slightly sinuate ventral margin strongly emarginate cephalad and rotundate caudad ventrocephalic angle rectangulate ventrocaudal angle strongly rounded metazona distinctly punctate.
Exposed portion of the mesonotum not more than half the length of the metazona.
Tegmina very small pads not exceeding the mesonotum in length.
Abdomen slightly compressed and weakly carinate dorsad apex of the male abdomen erect and partially recurved supraanal plate subvertical cerci narrower in the middle and apically than at the base the tip curved mesad and subtruncate with a slight caudal blunt process subgenital plate somewhat bullate with a distinct cingulate marginal ridge.
Prosternum with a blunt swollen protuberance more apparent than that found in D. miniaiula no spine present.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes considerably broader than deep as broad as one of the lobes in the male slightly broader in the female interspace between the metasternal lobes very narrow subcontiguous in the male.
Cephalic femora as long as the pronotum in the female slightly longer in the male tibise equal to the tarsi in length terminal joint of the tarsi considerably longer than the two proximal joints the whole tarsus threefourths the length of the tibia.
Median limbs as the cephalic but slightly larger.
Caudal femora rather slender more robust in the female than in the male considerably exceeding the apex of the abdomen in both sexes greatest width contained four and onehalf times in the length in the male and four times in the female genicular lobes acute carinse not serrate pagina marked as in D. miniaiula tibise distinctly shorter than the femora slightly sinuate very slightly in the female spines on the external margin four to five in the female six in the male on internal margin seven in each sex tarsi elongate slender over half the length of the tibiae terminal joint very slightly shorter than the proximal two.
General color above dark oil green.
Head with the vertex and fastigium pale apple green the median sulcus slightly marked with a darker tint face and sides of head dull french green distinct postocular bar blackish  eyes raw umber  palpi oil green  antennae blackish with the segments tipped with cinnamon.
Pronotum with a con  tinuation of the postocular streak blackish covering the dorsal half of the lateral lobes and extending over the humeral angle to the dorsimi 28 particularly on the metazona  humeral angle of the metazona and ventral half of the lateral lobes apple green Mesonotum mesopleura metanotum and metapleura of the general tint dorsad with a distinct continuation of the postocular bar at their suture and the ventral portion of the pleura apple green variegated with blotches of blackish chiefly along the sutures.
Abdomen of the general color recurved apex of the male abdomen blackish the subgenital plate with two subcircular spots of olive yellow separated by a narrow line of black cerci greenishyellow proximad blackish distad supraanal plate olive yellow.
Cephalic and median limbs oil green.
Caudal femora oil green with the genicular arches ochraceousrufous  tilite oil green becoming blackishbrown distad spines brownish with black tips.
Aleasurements.
Length of body 15.2 mm.
17.5 mm.
Length of pronotum 2.6  3.2  Greatest width of pronotum 2.5 '' 3.1  Length of caudal femur 10.2  10.5  A paratypic series of two males and three females including the types have been examined.
They are quite constant in size and coloration.
Dellia ovatipennis n. sp.
Type 9  Carrillo Costa Rica.
Hebard collection.
Distinguished by the ovate tegmina which are quite different from the linear type found in the other species and also in the coloration  the blackish genicular region of the caudal femora resembling D. insulana.
Size rather small when compared with females of D. miniatula and himaculata  form as usual in the genus  surface polished the metazona rather irregularly and feebly punctate.
Head with the occiput considerably elevated evenly descending to the vertex interocular space narrow but equal to half the terminal width of the fastigium fastigium very slightly shorter than the basal width tapering apically truncate a very slight median longitudinal depression present apex of the fastigium when viewed laterad rounded into the retreating face the f astigial process losing its identity a short distance ventrad of the insertion of the antenntE lateral ocelli situated at the base of the fastigium on the supraantennal ridge median ocellus placed at the ventral base of the fastigium eyes ovate reniform slightly but distinctly elevated above the vertex greatest length distinctly greater than the length of the infraocular portion of the gena
 antennse equal to the head pronotum and tegmina in length filiform.
Pronotum rounded cephalic margin subtruncate caudal margin truncate with a narrow triangular median emargination  transverse sulci four in number distinctly but not deeply impressed metazona less than half the length of the prozona lateral lobes slightly longer than deep a slight sinuosity dorsad on the cephalic margin ventral margin with the usual cephalic emargination the caudal portion subrotundate caudal margin faintly arcuate.
Tegmina about twice as long as the metazona elliptical the dorsal margin with a very slight emargination toward the apex.
Abdomen very distinctly compressed strongly carinate dorsad.
Prosternum with a swollen tubercle which is bluntly conic little elevated.
Interspace between the Fig.
27.
 Dellia ovatipennis n. sp.
Lateral view of type.
mesosternal lobes broader than deep slightly broader than one of the lobes the angles obtuse interspace between the metasternal lobes narrow constricted caudad by the converging lobes.
Cephalic femora slightly shorter than the pronotum  tibise equal to the femora in length  terminal tarsal joint about twice as long as the two basal joints together the tarsus about threefourths the tibial lengtli.
Median limbs similar to the cephalic but slightly slenderer and longer.
Caudal femora rather short very slightly exceeding the apex of the abdomen greatest width slightly more than onefourth of the length pattern of the pagina distinct and regular genicular region slightly inflated lobes acute tibise slightly shorter than the femora slightly sinuate in the proximal half external margin with six spines internal margin with eight spines including the apical tarsi over half the tibial length the terminal joint slightly shorter than the proximal two the second shorter than the first arolia present.
General color olive green the pronotum oil green.
Head with distinct postocular bars and a triangular occipital patch blackish face and gense oil green fastigium narrowly margined with yellowishgreen eyes raw umber antennse blackishbrown.
Pronotum with a continuation of the postocular bar olive green in color a distinct humeral line of citron yellow on the metazona a pair of indistinct parallel lines on the prozona and the ventral half of the lateral lobes citron yellow.
Tegmina dull citron yellow along the dorsal edge the ventral section blackish.
Abdomen with the proximal joint with a pair of straw yellow bars placed laterad and surrounded by a blackish patch this pattern being more or less distinctly indicated on the other abdominal segments.
Cephalic and median limbs oil green the median femora with a longitudinal llackish line tarsi washed with ferruginous.
Caudal femora oil green the genicular region blackish tibiae dull verdigris green blending into umber distad spines umber with blackish tips tarsi ferruginous.
Measurements.
Length of body 15.5 mim.
liength of pronotum 3.1  Greatest width of pronotum 2.9  Length of tegmen 2  Greatest width of tegmen 1.3  Length of caudal femur 9.2  The type only has been examined.
JODACRIS GiglioTos.
1897.
Jodacris GiglioTos Boll.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp. Torino XII Xo.
302 p. 32.
Type.
 Anniceris ferrugineus GiglioTos.
Jodaoris'T costaricensis n. sp.
Types  c
and 9  Carrillo Costa Rica.
Hebard collection.
Differing from the previously known species of the genus in the shorter tegmina the large and subcontiguous eyes and the peculiar coloration.
It is quite possible the species does not belong to the genus Jodocris and in such case it represents a new genus.
Size small form subfusiform surface sparsely punctulate.
Head with the occiput very slightly elevated the vertex descending to the fastigium slightly sulcate in the female distinctly in the male  inter1905.
431 ocular region very narrow the eyes subcontlguous in the malefastigium much broader proximad than long slightly tapering the apex truncate and itself equal to the length with a slight median excavation dorsad lateral view of the fastigium with the apex broadly truncate and with a distinct dorsal angle in the male slightly arcuate and with the angle reduced in the female frontal costa extending but little below the ventral base of the fastigium and distinctly sulcate in the male about limited to the ventral face of the fastigium and very slightly sulcate in the female lateral ocelli placed at the base of the supraocular margin of the fastigiiun median ocellus placed slightly below the insertion of the antennae face very strongly retreating in the male distinctly declivent in the female slightly concave in both sexes eyes subreniform quite Fis.
28.
JodacrisC
costaricensis n. sp.
Fig.
29.
Female type.
Fig.
28.
 Lateral view.
Fig.
29.
 Dorsal view.
prominent in both sexes but very prominent in the male considerably elevated above the interocular region length of the eye distinctly male or slightly greater than the infraocular length of the gense antennte of male slightly longer than the head and pronotum filiform slightly depressed distad.
Pronotum very slightly tectate median carina weakly indicated no lateral carinse present but humeral ajigie apparent cephalic margin produced rotundate with a distinct but shallow median emargination caudal margin very obtuseangulate transverse sulci three in number all more deeply indicated in the male and of which the caudal alone intersects the median carina in the male cephalic margin bordered caudad by a distinct depression which has the appearance of a sulcus in the female metazona strongly punctulate about half the length of the prozona lateral lobes distinctly longer than deep cephalic margin oblique slightly sinuate ventral margin very strongly emarginate cephalad the ventrocephalic angle rectangulate caudal section obliquely ventrocephalad truncate slightly sinuate ventrocaudal angle obtuse caudal margin about straight from the humeral angle.
Tegmina very slightly shorter than the head and pronotum lanceolate the tips very acute in the female narrowly rounded in the male  surface reticulate the principal longitudinal veins distinct.
Abdomen slightly compressed carinate dorsad apex of the male abdomen very slightly recurved cerci erect slender tapering slightly recurved distad subgenital plate moderately produced subspatulate apically rounded.
Prosternal spine small very short rather blunt submammiform.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes slightly broader than long slightly broader caudad than one of the lobes the angle obtuse in the male in the female the interspace is decidedly broader than one of the lobes and the angles are rounded  interspace between the metasternal lobes very narrow and with the lobes subcontiguous caudad in the male slightly longer than broad with the angles well rounded in the female.
Cephalic femora comparatively much heavier in the male than in the female slightly shorter than the pronotum tibiae equal to the femora in length terminal tarsal joint about twice the length of the two small proximal joints arolia broad.
Median limbs similar to the cephalic but larger.
Caudal femora robust especially in the female length exceeding that of the whole abdomen greatest wadth contained three and a half female to three and threefourths male in the length of the femur genicular region moderately inflated the lobes subrectangulate carina with verj minute serrulations pregenicular constriction marked pattern of the pagina distinct and regular but not deeply impressed  tibiae slightly shorter than the femora external margin with seven spines internal with nine including the apical tarsi about half the length of the tibiae the distal joint distinctly exceeding the proximal in length the median about half the length of the proximal arolia rather broad.
General color oil green marked with olive Aellow on the head and pronotum.
Head with the face and genae olive yellow the postocular streak olive green eyes walnut brown antennae apple green rather obscurely annulate with prout's brown.
Pronotum mesad olive green bordered laterad by bars of olive yellow the postocular bar french green rather obscure on the metazona the ventral portion of the lateral lobes olive yellow.
Tegmina olive green in the female that tint shading distad to apple green in the male a group of the principal longitudinal veins marked with blackish.
Abdomen dull brown the segments margined caudad with a darker shade.
Cephalic and median limbs oil green marked at the articulations with blackishbrown.
Caudal femora with the extreme proximal section and a section between the middle of the genicular region oil green the intermediate portion and the genicular region Chinese orange tibise verdigris green the extreme proximal section tinted with Chinese orange spines blackish apically tarsi dull greenish.
Measurements.
 
Length of body 12.5 mm.
15 mm.
Length of pronotum 3  4.7  Greatest width of pronotum 2.2 '' 3.2  Length of.
tegmen i  6  Greatest width of tegmen 1.7  2.5  Length of caudal femur 8  11  The types are uniciue.
SYLETRIA n. gen. A member of the Xiphiolce and probably allied to the genus Saparus GiglioTos from which it differs in a number of characters.
A decided superficial resemblance to the genus Machcerocera is noticeable.
Type.
 S. angulata n. sp.
Form compressed.
Head very deep occiput separated from the vertex and fastigium by an elevated interocular region fastigium slightly produced slightly broader than long frontal costa narrow facial carinse distinct eyes elongate elliptical.
Pronotum depressed above median carina distinct but not highly elevated no lateral carinse but distinct humeral angles on the metazona.
Tegmina elongate apex obliquely truncate.
Abdomen strongly compressed.
Prosternal spine erect conic.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes quadrate between the metasternal lobes longitudinal.
Caudal femora slender dorsal carinse serrate.
Caudal tibise with nine spines on the external margin no apical spine internal margin with eleven spines including the apical.
Syletria angulata n. sp.
Type 9  Carrillo Costa Rica.
Hebard collection.
Size rather large form distinctly compressed surface uniformly rugulose.
Head when viewed cephalad twice as deep as wide occiput ascending to the vertex which is less than half the width of the fasti8 Yv7rjTpia a female plunderer.
434 June gium and siibangulate when viewed laterad  cephalad descending slightly bearing two distinct lateral and a weak median carinse fastigium horizontal the proximal width considerably greater than the length the lateral carinse of the vertex continued on the fastigium Fig.
30.
 Sylctria angnlata n. gen. and sp.
Lateral view of type.
distal portion angulate the immediate angle blending into the frontal costa broadly and shallowly excavated the margins elevated frontal costa narrow at its junction with the fastigium expanding slightly between the antennse the margins below rather weak constricted sharply below the ocellus but r f
ventrad to this of the normal 'ilth and reaching ' jj the clypeal margin strongly punctate dorsad sulcate at and below the ocellus  lateral facial carinse distinct lateral ocelli placed at the base of the fastigium median ocellus placed ventrad of the slight dorsal expansion of the frontal costa eyes elongate elliptical antennae missing.
Pronotiun with the median carina slight but distinct slightly more elevated at the intersection of the caudal sulcus  cephalic margin subtruncate with a very small median emargination caudal margin rectangulate the angle very marked and the margin laterad very slightly emarginate transverse sulci three in number the metazona slightly longer than the prozona lateral lobes longer than deep the cephalic margin very slightly sinuate ventral margin distinctly and sharply rotundateemarginate cephalad the ventrocephalic angle obtuse caudal portion of the ventral margin and the ventrocaudal angle rounded into the caudal margin which is arcuate with a very Fig.
31. Syletria slight humeral concavity.
Tegmina considerably 9ulfita n. gen. and exceeding the abdomen and caudal femora in type.
length over twice the length of the head and pronotum together greatest widtli in the apical fourth  costal expansion distinct onefourth the distance from the base remainder of costal margin straight except near the apex where it is rounded apex obliquely truncate subrectangulate ventrad obtuseangulate dorsad  anal margin straight.
Wings equal to the tegmina in length.
Prosternal spine erect acute distinctly compressed .
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes quadrate slightly less than the width of one of the lobes the lobes rounded.
Interspace between the metasternal lobes longitudinal about one and a half times as long as the caudal interspace cephalic width slightly greater lobes rounded.
Abdomen strongly compressed carinate dorsad.
Cephalic femora straight the greatest width in the distal third length nearly threefourths that of the pronotum genicular lobes rounded the cephalic much larger than the caudal tibiae as long as the femora the spines on distal portion strong tarsi but little shorter than the tibiae the median joint little more than a third the length of the proximal the distal joint slightly exceeding the proximal and median in length arolia present.
Median femora about equal in length to the cephalic but more compressed genicular lobes tibiae and tarsi as in the cephalic limbs.
Caudal femora elongate slender twothirds the length of the tegmina proximal portion considerably inflated the greatest width contained four and a half times in the length of the femur dorsal carinse serrate pattern of the pagina elevated distinct and regular areas on the dorsal face finely tuberculate ventral areas glabrous pregenicular region distinctly constricted and extending a considerable distance proximad genicular region little arched and produced into a pair of subacute processes dorsad genicular lobes short narrowly rounded at the apex tibiae slightly shorter than the femora slightly sinuate external margin with nine spines internal margin with eleven including the apical tarsi about onethird the length of the tibiae the proximal and distal joints subequal in length median joint about half the length of the proximal arolia present.
General color broccoli brown minutely speckled with bistre.
Head inclined toward tawny olive two diverging suboljsolete senrilunate blotches of umber on the occiput eyes prout's brown.
Pronotum with the prozona very slightly lighter than the metazona the whole uniformly dotted with bistre.
Tegmina with numerous regularly disposed quadrate blotches of dilute bistre those of the costal and anal areas smaller than the blotches of the discoidal area.
Wings of the same tint as the tegmina.
Segments of the abdomen margined with blackish.
Cephalic and median limbs speckled with bistre on the cephalic aspect shiny black on the caudal aspect.
Caudal femora Isabella color on the dorsal and lateral faces with three distinct bars of bistre on the dorsal face one basal one median one caudomedian and one genicular the median and caudomedian slightly suffusing the lateral face carinse and dorsal tubercles bistre externoventral area blackish internal face and interneventral area scarlet vermilion genicular region suffused with bistre  tibiae scarlet vermilion the proximal portion a touch on the external face of the proximal section the entire external spines and the tips of the internal spines blackish tarsi scarlet vermilion.
Measurements.
Length of body 33 mm.
Length of pronotimi S  Greatest width of pronotum 5 '' Length of tegmen 30  Greatest width of tegmen 5.5  Length of caudal femm 19  This interesting new genus is represented only by the unique type.
It bears a great superficial resemblance to the Truxalid genus Machcerocera.
LEPTOMERINTHOPRORAn. gen. A member of the Xiphiolce and probably related to Xiphiola Bolivar.
The general structure is however very different and suggests a relationship to the Viler nee.
Type.
 L. hrevipennis n. sp.
Head with the fastigium trigonal slightly projecting beyond the face frontal costa precurrent.
Pronotum with a distinct median carina humeral angles marked transverse sulci three in number lateral lobes with the ventral margin emarginate cephalad and caudad.
Tegmina little exceeding the pronotum in length apex rectangulate costal expansion marked.
Prosternal spine erect rather slender blunt.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes slightly transverse interspace between the metasternal lobes subquadrate.
Caudal tilise with seven spines on the external margin no apical spine nine spines on the internal margin including the apical spine. '
Aerof thin finptvdog cord Kpupa face.
Leptomerinthoprora brevipennis n. sp.
Type 
 Pozo Azul de Pirris Costa Rica.
MayJune 1902.
C. F.
Underwood.
A. N. S.
Phila.
Size rather small form elongate fusiform surface of the pronotum and pleura rugosopunctate.
Head with the occiput and vertex rounded not markedly elevated interocular region slightly more than half the proximal width of the fastigium fastigium produced trigonal the apex rounded shallowly excavated margins distinct lateral view of fastigium rounded slightly projecting beyond and rounding into the slightly retreating face  frontal costa strongly constricted at the ocellus subequal elsewhere strongly sulcate except dorsad and ventrad  lateral ocelli placed close to the eye ventrad of the margin of the fastigium median ocellus placed a short distance below the insertion of the antennge eyes reniform slightly narrower dorsad than ventrad slightly 'P Fig.
32.
 Leptomerinthoprora brevipennis n. gen. and sp.
Lateral view of type.
longer than the infraocular portion of the gena
 antennae missing.
Pronotum moderately tectate median carina slightly elevated  cephalic margin slightly produced and with a very slight median emargination caudal margin rounded obtuseangulate the angle wdth a very slight emargination transverse sulci three in number a slight transverse depression extending parallel with the cephalic margin metazona little more than half the length of theprozona lateral lobes slightly longer than deep cephalic margin regularly sinuate ventral margin emarginate cephalad and caudad with a rounded median projection ventrocephalic angle obtuse ventrocaudal angle rounded rect438 June angulate caudal margin slightly oblique.
Tegmina slightly longer than the pronotum  costal area strongly and roundly dilated mesad distal half acuminate the apex narrowly v 7 rounded anal area distinctly arcuate principal V ' longitudinal veins distinct interspaces irregularly 'v ' reticulate.
Abdomen compressed carinate dor ' sad margins of the ovipositor jaws indistinctly 'v  serrulate.
Prosternal spine erect slightly taper  ing the apex bhmt.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes with the length contained nearly once and a half in the width which latter is slightly greater than the width of one of the lobes angles rounded  interspace between the metasternal lobes subquadrate slightly broader cephalad than caudad.
Cephalic femora distinctly shorter than the pronotum cephalic genicular lobe slightly larger than the caudal tibiee equal to the femora in length tarsi twothirds the length of the tibiae the distal joint slightly longer than the proximal and median together.
Median limbs similar to the cephalic but slightly more robust cephalic gen.
 icular lobe decidedly larger than the caudal Fig.
33.
LeptOme   r   c  1 11 rinthoprora brevipenlamellate.
Laudal lemora robust length about ms n gen. and sp.
equal to the head pronotum and tegmina together pronotum and teggreatest width contained three and a half times mina of type.
jj the length dorsal margins slightly serrulate pattern of the pagina distinct well impressed flattened genicular lobes narrowly rounded pregenicular constriction marked tibia slightly shorter than the femur external margin with seven spines internal with nine including the apical tarsi slightly less than half the length of the tibia distal joint about equal to the proximal and median joints together in length arolia present.
General colors vandyke brown on clay color.
Head with an irregularly triangular occipital patch and a distinct postocular Imr ventral portion of the antennal fossa blotched with the darker tint eyes walnut brown.
Pronotum with the humeral angles and the ventral third of the lateral lobes of the lighter shade remainder vandyke brown.
Tegmina dark with the angles marked with cla color which spreads over the distal portion of the anal area.
Pleura with two lars of clay color one on the mesothoracic episternum and in continuation of the claycolored ventral portion of the lateral lobe of the pronotum the other on the ridge of the metathoracic episternum.
Abdomen tawny ohve.
Limbs dull clay color with a slight greenish tinge the caudal femora washed with cinnamon on the dorsal face genicular arch raw umber distal portion of the caudal tibise and caudal tarsi washed with bistre spines tipped with blackish.
Measurements.
Length of body 22.2 mm.
Length of pronotum 5.9 ' Greatest width of pronotum 4  Length of tegmen 6.9  Greatest width of tegmen 4  Length of caudal femur 13.5 The type is unique.
SCHISTOCERCA Stl.
Schistooerca pyramidata Scudder.
Guatel Costa Rica.
August 1902.
C. F.
Underwood.
A. N. S.
Phila.
One female one nymph.
Tarbaca Costa Rica.
December 1902.
C. F.
L'nderwood.
A. N. S.
Phila.
One female one n3aiiph.
Pozo Azul de Pirris Costa Rica.
August 1902.
C. F.
Underwood.
A. N. S.
Phila.
Four females.
Monte Redondo Costa Rica.
December 1902 and January 1903.
C. F.
Underwood.
A. N. S.
Phila.
Two males two females eight nymphs.
San Jose Costa Rica.
September and December 1902.
C. F.
Underwood.
A. N. S.
Phila.
Five males three females one nymph.
This series is inseparable from Cuernavaca topotypic specimens.
Schistooerca malaohitioa n. sp.
Type 9  Turrialba Costa Rica.
Schild and Burgdorf.
U. S. N. M. No.
8175.
 Allied to S. alutacea and venusta but distinguished by the more flattened disk of the pronotum and the striking and peculiar coloration.
Size rather large  form as usual in the genus.
Head with the occiput and vertex very slightly rounded longitudinally rather flattened transversely  interocular space very distinctly greater than the width of the frontal costa fastigium broad obtuseangulate subhorizontal margins very slightly elevated rounding into the frontal costa without angle frontal costa subequal in width continued to the clypeus slightly expanded ventrad sulcate at and ventrad of the ocellus strongly punctate dorsad eyes elongate subreniform slightly longer than the infraocular portion of the gence  antennae alDout as long as the head and pronotiim together.
Pronotum subdeplanate above surface strongly rugosopunctate transverse sulci deeply impressed and all intersecting the median carina median carina distinct and uniform in height throughout its length metazona slightly longer than the prozona very slightly bullate cephalic margin obtuseangulate caudal Fig.
34.
 Schistocerca malachitica n. sp.
Type.
margin rectangulate with the angle rounded humeral angle distinct but rounded on the metazona obsolete on the prozona lateral lobes slightly longer than deep.
Prosternal spine rather heavy erect apically rounded and blunt.
Tegmina long exceeding the tips of the posterior femora by the length of the pronotum.
Interval between the mesosternal lobes distinctly longer than cephalic width subcuneiform in shape.
Interval between the metasternal lobes similar in 1905.
441 outline to that between the mesosternal lobes.
Caudal femora elongate reaching the base of the ovipositor jaws dorsal carina distinctly serrate tibia
slightly but distinctly shorter than the femora spines of the internal borders longer than those of the lateral borders.
General color very dull olive green on the head and thorax abdomen raw umber.
Pronotum with a broad subequal median stripe of oil green which is continued on to and involves the whole anal area of the tegmina.
Head with a broad streak of dull tawnyochraceous on the fastigium vertex and occiput bordered laterad by faint blackish Unes eyes ferruginous  antennae olivaceous.
Pronotum with the lateral portions of the dorsum bistre.
Tegmina exclusive of the anal areas chestnut.
Wings with the costal portion and the apical twothirds suffused with chestnut fading into a pale apple green on the basal third.
CephFig.
35.
 Schistocerca malachitica n. sp.
Tjpe.
alic and median limbs dull oil green the genicular regions marked with gamboge yehow.
Caudal femora oil green basally suffused with hoary white genicular arch black the region immediately ventrad being ochraceous tibiae saffron yellow the spines lemon yellow with the tips black.
Measurements.
Length of body 54.5 mm.
Length of pronotum 'i ca Greatest width of pronotum u Length of tegmen 50  Greatest width of tegmen on re a Greatest width of wing 20.5  Length of caudal femur 27.5 The type is unique in the material studied.
AIDEMONA Brunner.8 Aidemona azteca Saussure.
Monte Redondo Costa Rica.
January 1903.
C. F.
Underwood.
One male one nymph.
A. N. S.
Phila.
Guatel Costa Rica.
April and September 1902.
C. F. Underwood.
Three males eighteen females.
A. N. S.
Phila.
This series appears to be rather uniform in size and of quite uniform coloration.
The males differ somewhat from central Mexican Jalisco San Luis Potosi and Iichtacan specimens in the slenderer cerci and both sexes in the shorter tegmina and wings which but slightly exceed the caudal femora in the male and are of proportionate length in the female.
Specimens from the State of Vera Cruz are closer related to the Costa Rican type than to the more northern form.
As the material of the male sex from Costa Rica is rather limited I have refrained from describing the form but a more extensive series will in all probabilit verify the observation made regarding the cerci.
DICHROPLUS Stll.
1873.
Dichroplus Stal Recensio Orthopterorum I p. 78.
Included arrogans patruelis cliens and lemniscatus Stal of which the first may be considered the type.
Dichroplus morosus n. sp.
Type 9  Monte Redondo Costa Rica.
January 1903.
C F.
Underwood.
A. N. S.
Phila.
Allied to D. punctulatus and conspersus but differing in the more obtuseangulate caudal margin of the pronotum the more uniformly sulcate frontal costa as w'ell as the duller coloration.
Size small form as usual in the genus.
Plead with the occiput very slightly rounded and ascending interocular space slightly more than half the width of the eye  fastigium strongly declivent not excavated margins slightly elevated hardly separated from the frontal costa frontal costa subequal slightly expanding ventrad moderately sulcate to and for a short distance below the ocellus lateral ocelli situated close to the eye at the dorsal margin of the antennal fossae median ocellus situated between the antenna
and slightly ventrad  eyes subreniform slightly longer than the infraocular portion of the gense the greatest width contained about once and a half in the length antennae slightly depressed apically damaged.
Pronotum depressed dorsad no median carina except a slight ridge on the meta This generic name should be credited to Brimner Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Stor.
Nat.
Genova XXXIII p. 14.5 instead of Scudder.
It was based on Stal's Divisio tertia of the genus Pezotetti.v of which the only species not eliminated  azteca  is the type.
zona humeral angles distinct on the metazona cephalic margin subtruncate  caudal margin obtuseangulate  transverse sulci rather weak three in number lateral lobes as deep as long the ventral angles obtuse.
Tegmina slightly exceeding the tips of the abdomen and caudal femora apex rounded costal expansion slight but elongate.
Abdomen considerably compressed.
Prosternal spine erect thick conic slightly retrorse apex rather blunt.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes distinctly broader than long equal to the one of the lobes in width angles narrowly rounded interspace between the metasternal lobes narrow longer than broad the lobes rounded.
Caudal femora about twice the length of the head and pronotum together the greatest width contained three and onethird times in the length  pattern of the pagina low but distinct pregenicular constriction slight genicular lobes rotundatotruncate tibiae slightly shorter than the femur armed on the external margin with nine spines on the internal margin with nine including the apical.
General color bistre sprinkled lined and blotched on a ground of wood brown.
Postocular bar indistinct and face suffused with the darker shade antennae wood brown irregularly marked with the overlying tint.
Pronotum with the humeral angles and the ventral portions of the lateral lobes dull wood brown.
Tegmina irregularly blotched and mottled the intercalary area with regular alternating cuadrate patches of shining black and wood brown.
Abdomen wood brown marked with shining black.
Limbs wood brown and vandyke brown blotched and imperfectly annulate  caudal femora wdth three irregular dorsal patches which extend over on the dorsal portion of the other unmarked wood brown lateral face genicular region vandyke brown tibial groove suffused with ochraceousruf ous  caudal tibiae dull ochraceousrufous the spines tipped with black.
Measurements.
Length of body 17.5 mm.
Length of pronotum 4  Greatest width of pronotum 3  Length of tegmen 14 '  Length of caudal femur ... 9.7  The type only has been examined.
OSMILIA stm.
Osmilia tolteca Saussure.
Carrillo Costa Rica.
U S. Nat.
Mus.
and Hebard collection.
One male five females.
29 Guatel Costa Rica.
April 1902.
C. F.
Underwood.
A. N. S.
Phila.
Eight males nine females one nymph.
Monte Redondo Costa Rica.
January 1903.
C. F.
Underwood.
A. N. S.
Phila.
Two males three females eight njmphs.
San Jose Costa Rica.
September 1902.
C. F.
Underwood.
A. N. S.
Phila.
Three nymphs.
Tarbaca Costa Rica.
November 1902.
C. F.
Underwood.
A. N. 8.
Phila.
One female.
Pozo Azul de Pirris Costa Rica.
August 1902 and January 1903.
C. F.
Underwood.
A. N. S.
Phila.
Four males seven females.
This Mexican and Central American form can be distinguished from the South American 0. flavoUneata by the shorter tegmina and wings in both sexes and the broader head and less prominent eyes.
Demerara specimens of 0. flavoUneata and Xersi Cruz and Tamaulipas specimens of tolteca have been used for comparison.
RHACHICREAGKA n. gen.
Type.
 R. nothra n. sp.
Allied to Polysarcus Saussure but differing in the presence of minute tegmina the greater muiiber of joints in the antenna the slightly produced fastigium of the vertex and the more distinctly forked cerci.
Form robust obese in the female.
Head with the vertex short declivent produced moderately beyond the face frontal costa precurrent sulcate antennae filiform twentytwo to twentythree joints.
Median carina of the pronotum distinct elevated subcristate on the metazona.
Metanotum and proximal segment of the abdomen with a median carina which is more elevated caudad.
Tegmina minute linear.
Cerci of the male very distinctly forked.
Prosternal spine erect unguical acute slightly antrorse.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes subquadrate in both sexes  interspace between the metasternal lobes subquadrate in the male strongly transverse in the female.
Arolia present.
Bhaohioreagra nothra' n. sp.
Types d and 9  Carrillo Costa Rica.
Hebard collection.
Size rather small in the male medium in the female form robust in the male decidedly obese in the female surface rugosopunctate the dorsum of the thorax heavily sculptured.
Head with the occiput and vertex evenly rounded the interocular space about half the width of the cephalic margin of the fastigium in the male slightly narrower than Tatf hack upeaypa hook.
Nwoa inactive sluggish.
1905.
445 the cephalic width in the female fastigium moderately declivent slightly male or considerably female shorter than the proximal width apex subtrimcate broadly and shallowly sulcate and rounding without demarkation into the frontal costa and sulcus lateral view of the fastigium regularly rounded blending imperceptibly into the face immediately ventrad of the median ocellus the projection of the fastigium more pronounced comparatively in the male than in the female lateral ocelli placed near the base of the fastigium on the supraFig.
36.
 Rhachicreagra nothra n. gen. and sp.
Lateral view of male type.
antennal margin frontal costa slightly expanded dorsad extending to the clypeal margin slightly constricted immediately below the ocellus sulcus distinct moderately deep narrower dorsad than ventrad  eyes subovate quite prominent in the male and elevated above the vertex very much male and distinctly female longer than the infraocular portion of the gense antennce as long as the caudal femora.
Pronotum tectate the median carina elevated on the metazona developed Fig.
37.
 Rhachicreagra nothra n. gen. and sp.
Female type lateral view.
into a dentate crest which is more apparent in the female than in the male cephalic margin produced arcuate the median section truncate caudal margin emarginatotruncate  no lateral carinas present but humeral angles distinct in the male lateral lobes of the pronotum distinctly longer than deep particularly in the male cephalic margin sinuate with a distinct postocular emargination ventral margin with a distinct cephalic emargination subarcuate caiidad caudal margin arcuate with a slight concavity dorsad of the rounded obtuse ventrocaudal angle transverse sulci three in number deeply impressed the cephalic margin bordered caudad by an incomplete sulcus prozona more than twice the length of the metazona.
Exposed portion of the mesonotum very narrow  metanotum and proximal segment of the abdomen subequal in length tectate carinate the caudal section elevated.
Tegmina equal to the metanotum in length.
Abdomen carinate dorsad very distinctly compressed in the female supraanal plate of the male with the lateral margins parallel in the proximal half distal half narrowed apex broadly rounded the lateral portions bent dorsad from the mesal section  cerci subequal to the fork except at extreme base cephalic arm short but distinctly separated from the longer caudal fork tips narrowly rounded the whole cercus evenly curved mesad  subgenital plate slightly shorter than proximal width the margin arcuate with a very slight truncate apical process.
Prosternal spine erect acute slightly antrorse distinctly flattened.
Fig.
38.
Fig.
39.
Rhachicreagra nothra n. gen. and sp.
Types.
Fig.
38.
 Dorsal view of female pronotum.
Fig.
39.
 Dorsal view of apex of male abdomen.
transversely in the female.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes very slightly longer than broad in the male and with the angles rectangulate in the female slightly broader than long and with the angles as in the male interspace between th metasternal lobes very broadly cunieform and narrower than the interspace between the mesosternal lobes in the male in the female broader cephalad than the interspace between the mesosternal lobes strongly narrowed caudad the angles acute.
Cephalic and median femora inflated in the male the cephalic slightly longer than the pronotum median slightly larger tibiiK equal to the femora in length tarsi twothirds the length of the tibiae the distal joint almost twice the length of the proximal and median joints.
Cephalic and median femora of the female not strongly inflated the cephalic no longer than the pronotum otherwise the cephalic and median limbs are as in the male.
Caudal femora about threefourths male to twothirds female the length of the body graceful greatest width contained about four times in the length of the femur dorsal margin sparsely serrate pattern of the pagina distinct pregenicular constriction more marked ventrad than dorsad genicular arch veryslight genicular lobes obliquely rotundatotruncate at the apex  tibise very slightly shorter than the femora slightly sinuate proximad  external margin with eight spines no apical spine present internal margin with nine spines including the apical tarsi slightly less than half the length of the tibia the distal joint slightly longer than the proximal and median joints arolia large transverse.
Male.
 General dorsal color clay color speckled with olive green which latter is the color of a very distinct and broad postocular bar on the head pronotum and dorsal portion of the pleura.
Eyes mummy brown.
Face fastigium mouth parts gense ventral portion of the lateral lobes and a blotch on each episternum at the base of the limbs naples yellow the face speckled with olive green.
Lateral and ventrad aspects of the abdomen as well as the abdominal appendages except the tips of the cereal forks blackish and limbs oil green.
Genicular arches and tips of the tibial spines brownishblack.
Antennae olive yellow proximad indian yellow distad very obscurely blotched with dull brown.
Female.
 Color pattern as in the male unless otherwise noted the base colors replaced as follows Dorsal clay color by ochraceous olive green lateral stripes dull naples yellow on head pronotum and pleura replaced by dull ochre yellow.
Antennae dull ochre yellow.
Cephalic and median limbs ochraceous the femora marked ventrad with dull olive green.
Caudal femora with the dorsal face ochraceouscinnamon the carina blotched and the distal half suffused with blackish lateral ventral and internal faces tibiae and tarsi more or less strongly suffused with blackish.
Measurements.
Length of body 16 mm.
24.5 mm.
Length of pronotum 3.7 '' 5.6 '' Greatest dorsal width of pronotum .... 3.5  6.7  Greatest width across metapleura 5  H  Length of caudal femur 13.5  16.3  A series of paratypic specimens nine males seven females have been examined in addition to the types as well as a male from Monte Redondo C. F. Underwood January 1903 A. N. S.
Phila..
Considerable variation is noticed in the size of both sexes while the range of color variation is chiefly in the intensity of the pattern.
The Monte Redondo male however has the olive green shades replaced by solid blue black while the Aellow markings of the head pronotum and pleura are canary yellow the contrast being very striking.
MICROTYLOPTERYX n. gen.
Type.
 M. hcbardi n. sp.
Allied to Rhachicreagra Rehn but differing in the slenderer more compressed and less obese form the broader vertex and fastigium the comparatively larger head very noticeable in the female the singletoothed cerci and uninflated cephalic femora in the male.
Body more or less elongate fusiform.
Head with the vertex short horizontal forming a more or less distinct angle with the front dorsal outline trigonal the interocular space over half the proximal width of the fastigium frontal costa weak ventrad with the sulcation continued on the fastigium antennae filiform fifteen or more joints.
Pronotum subarcuate longitudinally tectate median carina elevated caudad into a distinct subcristate process.
Metanotum proximal segment of the abdomen and in a lesser degree the succeeding segments of the abdomen with a dorsocaudal elevation on the median carina.
Tegmina padlike considerably longer than broad not longer than the pronotum.
Cerci of the male undivided subgenital plate compressed.
Prosternal spine erect slender acute.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes subquadrate in the male slightly transverse in the female  interspace between the metasternal lobes distinctly longitudinal in the male subquadrate in the female.
Caudal tibise with six to seven spines in the external margin no apical spine eight to nine spines including the apical on the internal margin.
Arolia present.
Microtylopteryx hebardi n. sp.
Type d and 9  Carrillo Costa Rica.
Hebard collection.
Size rather large compared with M. fusiformis form elongate subfusiform surface punctate.
Head somewhat compressed the depth considerably greater than the thoracic depth width at mandibular margins very slightly less male or equal female to the greatest wddth across the eyes occiput gently rounded vertex gently declivent the interspace between the eyes equal to onehalf male or twothirds female the greatest width of the eye fastigiiun with the proximal width twice the length trigonal with a slight median depression dorsocephalic angle narrowly rounded  face slightly retreating in the female distinctly retreating in the male slightly concave frontal costa weak on the ventral half of the face distinctly and broadly sul11 MiKpn sjnall tva pad nrtpv wing.
1905.
449 cate above the ocellus rounding into the fastigial groove without interruption slightly and narrowly sulcate below lateral ocelli placed on the fastigial margin close to the eye eyes shortovate quite prominent in the male eciual to male or considerably less than female the infraocular length of the genae antennfe filiform in the male very slightly shorter than the caudal femora.
Pronotum distinctly tectate Fig.
40.
 Microtylopterux hehardi n. gen. and sp.
Lateral view of female type.
elevated cephalad median carina rather weak a slight elevation present at the cephalic margin a very distinct and slightly hooked ridge at the caudal margin no lateral carinae present but distinct lateral shoulders cephalic margin arcuate in the male subtruncate in the female caudal margin very broadl shallowly and triangularly emarginate lateral lobes distinctly longer than deep cephalic margin oblique ventral margin obliquely emarginate cephalad arcuate caudad.
Fig.
41.
Fig.
42.
Fig.
41.
 Microtylopteryx fusiformis lateral view of apex of male abdomen.
Fig.
42.J.
hehardi lateral view of apex of male abdomen.
ventrocaidal angle subrectangulate in the male and obtuseangulate in the female caudal margin with a distinct rotundate emargination above the angle transverse sulci two in number rather weak particularly in the female metazona about onefourth the length of the prozona in the male less than onefourth in the female lateral shoulders arcuate when viewed laterad.
Metanotum and proximal segment of the abdomen subeqiial in length a caudal projection developed as on the pronotum ut to lesser degree.
Tegmina slightly shorter than the prozona linear the greatest width in the apical third and contained about five times in the length.
Abdomen somewhat compressed carinate and each segment with a very slight caudal lobule on the carina.
Apex of the male abdomen not inflated recurved supraanal plate narrow almost twice as long as broad the apex rounded cerci short rather thick strongly falciform apex rounded and compressed subgenital plate compressed narrowly rounded when viewed dorsad moderately produced when viewed laterad.
Prosternal spine slender erect acute slightly antrorse.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes distinctly transverse in the male almost as broad as one of the lobes the angles narrowly rounded  in the female almost twice as broad as long decidedly broader than one of the lobes the angles rectangulate.
Interspace between the metasternal lobes in the male narrow longitudinal constricted caudad  in the female quadrate wedgeshaped the caudal width considerably less than the cephalic.
Cephalic femora slightly longer than the pronotum in the male subequal in the female not inflated cephalic genicular lobe larger than the caudal  tibise equal to the femora in length  tarsi slightly shorter than tibise the distal joint considerably longer than the proximal and median joints united.
Median limbs similar in structure and size to the cephalic.
Caudal femora considerably inflated proximad the length slightly less than that of the body in the male and equal to that of the metanotum and abdomen in the female greatest width contained about four and a half times in the length distal half evenly tapering to the narrowest pregenicular portion dorsal carina serrate pattern of the pagina distinct but shallow genicular region hardly arched genicular lobes acute apieally and sinuatorotundate ventrad  caudal tibise equal in length to the femora without the genicular dilation slightly sinuate external margin with seven spines the proximal one of which is very short and subobsolete in the male internal margin with nine spines including the apical the proximal one short and subobsolete in the male tarsi slightly less than half the tibial length median segment about half the length of the proximal distal segment about equal to the jjroximal and median together.
Arolia quadrate.
General colors above mummy brown and ochraceous in the female cinnamon and ochre yellow in the male lateral aspects largely shining seal brown.
Head with a broad stripe of dull sepia from the fastigium extending back over the occiput with a very narrow median line of cinnamon ventral half of the gente and face except the dark frontal costa ochre yellow in the male distinct postocular bar shining seal brown head of the female from the dorsal margin of the postocular bar and the margin of the fastigium ventrad seal brown more or less shining  eyes in the male mars brown in the female burnt lunber  antennae wath about the proximal third of the pale general color the distal twothirds of the darker shade.
Pronotum with the lateral angles ochre yellow the protuberance of the median carina blackish lateral lobes shining seal brown except for an oblique bar of dull ochre yellow which crosses the ventrocaudal lobe and is continued more or less distinctly across the seal brown pleura.
Tegmina bicolor dorsad buff yellow ventrad seal brown.
Abdomen with the seal brown lateral portions distinctly separated from the dorsum on the third and fourth segments the lighter dorsal shade is continued ventrad and obliquely cephalad a short distance in a subelliptical patch the median carina of the pronotum seal brown.
Cephalic and median limbs seal brown lined above with pale ochre yellow.
Caudal limbs seal brown the dorsal aspect between ochre yellow and buff yellow ttie median carina seal brown.
Measurements.
Length of body 14.2 mm.
24 mm.
Ijength of pronotum 4  5.2 Greatest dorsal width of the pronotum ... 3  4.3  Length of tegmen 2.5 '' 3 5 Length of caudal femur 12.5  15.5  A series of five paratypic specimens three males and two females have been examined in addition to the types.
Little variation is noticed except that two of the males have the lighter shades more greenishyellow than the others.
The peculiar and striking appearance of this species should serve to readily distinguish it the large head of the female and the lacquerlike character of the seal brown color being very striking.
I take pleasure in dedicating this species to Mr. Hebard as a slight token of appreciation of much kindly interest and assistance.
Microtylopteryx fusiformis n. sp.
Type   and 9  Carrillo Costa Rica.
Hebard collection.
Allied to M. hebardi but differing in the shorter limbs the more robust body the broader tegmina rather different color pattern and a number of minor characters.
Size medium female to small male  form fusiform very slightly compressed  surface strongly punctate dorsad.
Head with the occiput 452 June and vertex little elevated very slightly rounded a slight median ridge present interocular width about half the proximal width of the fastigium in the male in the female about twothirds fastigium distinctly broader than long trigonal arched very slight median sulcus present fastigium when viewed laterad subrectangulate  frontal costa gradualh constricted dorsad and rather sharply pinched ventrad of the ocellus extending to the clypeal margin sulcate throughout more distinctly so dorsad and rounding into the fastigium face retreating eyes subelliptical slightly longer than the infraocular portion of the gence moderately prominent in the male  antennae in the male slightly longer than the head and pronotum in the female distinctly shorter slightly depressed more so in the female than in the male and with distal porFig.
43.
 Microtyloptenjx fusiormis n. sp.
Lateral view of female type.
tion somewhat enlarged.
Pronotum somewhat elevated caudad tectate the median carina distinct slightly sinuate caudad of the middle the caudal elcAation very distinct and compressed lateral carinse undeveloped but distinct sinuate angles as in M. hebardi are present the disk of the pronotimi when viewed dorsad being as narrow a third the distance caudad as at the cephalic margin regularly expanding caudad cephalic margin obtuseangulate with the angle very slightly emarginate caudal margin emarginatotruncate the emargination covering the whole width and being very shallow  transverse sulci two in number the cephalic being placed median and subobsolete in the female metazona less than a third the length of the prozona lateral lobes slightly deeper than long cephalic margin oblique slightly sinuatoemarginate ventral margin emarginate cephalad rounded caudad ventrocephalic angle obtuse ventrocaiulal angle obtuse caudal margin rotundatoemarginate.
Tegmina twothirds male  to threefourths female the length of the pronotum enlarged distad the greatest width being in the distal third.
Metanotum and proximal abdominal segment with a distinct median carina which is developed on the metanotum and proximal segment of the abdomen into a compressed caudal process similar but smaller than on the pronotum.
Abdomen slightly but distinctly compressed.
Apex of the male abdomen not recurved the appendages very small supraanal plate trigonal the apex slightly produced and narrowly rounded cerci very short thick and blunt hardly longer than broad subgenital plate compressed rather deep blunt.
Prosternal spine erect slender acute.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes subquadrate in the male slightly transverse in the female the angles verj narrowly rounded  interspace between the metasternal lobes very narrow strongly longitudinal in the male very slightly longitudinal with the angles rectangulate in the female.
Cephalic femora threefourths male to fourfifths female the length of the pronotum evenly enlarging distad especially in the female cephalic genicular lobe slightly larger than the caudal tibise about equal to the femora in length tarsi little shorter than the tarsi distal joint about half again as long as the median and proximal joints together.
Median limbs similar to the cephalic lut slightly larger.
Caudal femora robust pregenicular constriction marked length distinctly male or almost female equal to the length of the mesonotum and abdomen greatest width in the proximal third and contained about three times in the length dorsal carina irregularl and very weakly serrulate pattern of the pagina regularly but not deeph impressed genicular region distinctly arched genicular lobes rectangulate caudal tibiae slightly shorter than the femoral length rather heavy slightly sinuate the external margin with six spines no apical spine present internal margin with seven spines including the apical spine tarsi less than half the length of the tibiae the distal joint only slightly longer than the proximal arolia rather small.
General colors above varying from prout's brown to raw umber laterad shining seal brown.
Head with all from the fastigium and dorsal margin of the usual portion of the postocular bar ventrad seal brown a line on the clypeal margin a line immediately caudad of dorsal section of the eye and the fastigial and dorsal frontal ccsta carinse dull ochre yellow  eyes russet  antennae varying from seal brown to ferruginous a slight distance proximad of the apex annulate with buff.
Pronotum with lateral angles slightly lighter than the dorsiun and more of an ochre yellow lateral lobes solid seal brown.
Tegmina dull cream buff with a ventral line of seal brown greatly narrowed distad.
Abdomen with the lateral faces of the segments solid seal brown the line of demarcation being oblique dorsocephalad ventrocaudad the proximal segment with a semicircular spot of seal brown which is marked structurally by a ridge.
Pleura and venter seal brown.
Cephalic and median limbs solid vandyke brown.
Caudal femora with the external face seal brown varying somewhat in strength dorsad ochraceous buff rather obscure in the female with two distinct and a third indistinct transverse bars in the male internal face seal brown with indications of two lighter cross bars in the female these bars quite apparent in the male tibia and tarsi very dull ochraceous a distinct annulus of rather dull citron yellow present on the proximal portion spines tipped with seal brown.
Measurements.
Length of body 13.5 mm.
20.5 mm.
Length of pronotum 3.5 '' 5 '' Greatest dorsal width of pronotum .... 3.2  5  Length of tegmen 2.6  4.1  Length of caudal femur 9  12  Aparatypic series of fourteen individuals four males and ten females have been examined in addition to the types.
They are quite uniform in character aside from a little variation in the intensity of the coloration and may be readily separated from M. hebardi by the shape and length of the femora as well as numerous other characters.
SOME FISHES FROM BORNEO.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
The Wistar Institute of Anatomy of Philadelphia has'received valuable collections of fishes from Borneo principally from the Baram region of Sarawak or Brunei as given on some maps in the British possessions.
The larger collections were made by Dr. William H. Furness 3rd of Philadelphia in 1898.
They are all from the Baram basin.
Previously Mr. Alfred C. Harrison Jr. and Dr. H. I.
Hiller had also obtained material from the same region together with some other from the Kapuas river in western Dutch Borneo.
The larger munber of forms are either fluviatile or freshwater and interesting on account of their apparent rarity.
In order to facilitate satisfactory comparisons I have tried to give more or less complete accounts of these.
Some others are represented by large series.
Drs.
Horace Jayne and M. J. Greenman kindly submitted the collections to me for examination.
I have also to thank them for their recommendation to the Institute of the services of the artist.
Miss Helen Winchester who made the accompanying figures.
As usual the line with each represents an inch.
To the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia I am under obligations for many courtesies such as the use of the library and collections.
Among the latter are a number of Borneo fishes received from the Paris Museum by Prof. E. D. Cope and presented by him to the Academy.
As these form part of the collections of M. Chaper reported by Prof. Leon Vaillant in 1893 they are of value as authoritative determinations.
I beg to thank Prof. Vaillant for their verification.
Dr. Samuel G. Dixon President of the Academy Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry Mr.
Witmer Stone and Mr. James A. G. Rehn have kindly given assistance and many suggestions.
For convenience it may be inferred that the material examined under each species was obtained by Dr. Furness unless otherwise stated GALEID.E3.
1.
Carcharhinus tephrodes sp.
nov. Head about 4f to end of last caudal vertebra depth about 7h to same depth about 6 to origin of lower caudal lobe upper caudal lobe 453 July about 3 in rest of body  snout 2 J in head  space between tip of snout and anterior curve of mouth 21 width of mouth at corners 2 interorbital space 2 length of pectoral along upper or outer margin 1 margin of pectoral posteriorly 1 base of pectoral 2f  anterior margin of first dorsal 2 base of first dorsal 2J anterior margin of second dorsal 2 base of second dorsal 3 least depth of caudal peduncle 5 Fig.
1.
 Carcharhinus fephrodes Fowler.
anterior margin of lower caudal lobe 2 anterior margin of anal 3 base of anal 3  anterior margin of ventral 3  base of ventral 3f  eye 7f in interorbital space.
Body elongate well compressed and greatest depth about origin of first dorsal fin.
Caudal peduncle rather thick compressed flattened above and below and a pit at origin of upper caudal lobe.
A slight depression along middle of back above.
Head broad its greatest width about 1in its length depressed and rather slightly convex above.
Snout broad depressed or somewhat flattened and margin obtvise when viewed from above.
Eye small circular lateral nictitating membrane well developed and position a little anterior.
Symphysis of mandible about opposite front rim of orbit mandible itself very broadly convex.
Teeth in mandible entire long slender sharp Kinted and radiating more or less as it were from margin of jaw.
Teeth of upper jaw radiating inward or parallel with those of mandible when mouth is closed.
Upper teeth broad triangular and finely serrated along both margins each one may be said to have a slight notch on its outer or distal edge near base margin at this region also finely serrated.
Tongue broad and flat only a little free around edges.
Each corner of mouth with a short fold which extends obliquely outward.
Nostrils nearer front of upper jaw or eye than tip of snout oblique rather large and each with a small pointed flap.
Interorbital space broad and a little convex.
Gillopenings 5 last two over base of pectoral and median three largest.
No spiracle.
Body covered with fine shagreen denticles largest on middle of back and anterior margins of fins basally.
Head with numerous inconspicuous pores.
First dorsal inserted nearer origin of pectoral than that of ventral its upper margin about 2 base of fin slightly undulate and posteriorly ends in a short point.
Second dorsal similar about equal to anal in size and inserted a trifle behind origin of latter or much nearer origin of upper caudal lobe than posterior basal margin of first dorsal.
Anal similar to second dorsal.
Upper caudal lobe long notched 'near its end.
Origin of lower caudal lobe a little in advance of that of upper but without a pit.
Pectoral broad reaching nearly f of distance to origin of ventral and posterior margin but little curved.
Ventral broad inserted nearer origin of anal than that of pectoral and corners rounded obtusely.
Claspers small on outer margin about 2f in length of anterior edge of ventral.
Color in alcohol more or less uniform gray above and on fins below white.
Lower surfaces of pectorals and ventrals w'hite.
Side of head till eye is included gray like upper surface otherwise lower surface white.
Caudal gray paler along lower portion of vertebral column.
Iris slaty.
Iength 24 inches.
Type No.
2390 W. I.
A. P. Baram Borneo.
1897.
Mr. Alfred C. Harrison Jr. and Dr. H. M. Hiller.
Also paratype No.
2391 W. I.
A. P. Same data.
Length 14 inches.
Eye about 5 in interorbital space A pit at origin of lower caudal lobe and transverse fissure at origin of upper.
Margins of dorsal and caudal brownishgray.
Pectoral If in head.
In most other respects it agrees entirely.
This species differs from Carcharhinus borneensis Bleeker in the large broad pectoral.
According to Bleeker's account it is 1 in the head.
Tepaidyjg ashy.
2.
Scoliodon acutus Ruppell.
Head 5f to end of last vertebra depth about 6 to same depth about 5 to origin of lower caudal lobe upper caudal lobe about 2 in rest of body  snout 2in head  space between tip of snout and anterior curve of mouth 2 width of mouth at corners 3 interorbital space 2 length of pectoral along upper or outer margin If margin of pectoral posteriorly 2 base of pectoral 3 anterior margin of first dorsal If base of first dorsal about 1 posterior margin of second dorsal 3f  base of second dorsal 5f  least depth of caudal peduncle 4 anterior margin of lower caudal lobe If base of anal 3f  anterior margin of ventral 4  base of ventral 4  eye 4in interorbital space.
Body elongate compressed rather slender posteriorly and greatest depth about origin of first dorsal fin.
Caudal peduncle compressed rather slender also flattened above and below.
Upper surface with a pronounced median groove and a transverse slitlike pit at origin of upper caudal lobe.
Lower surface shallowly concave medianly and also with a small pit at origin of lower lobe.
Depression along middle of back 'between dorsals very slight.
Head rather slender depressed its greatest width about If in its length and upper surface convex.
Snout rather angular depressed and rising up more convexly posteriorly.
Eye small circular and position a trifle anterior.
Nictitating membrane well developed.
Symphysis of mandible about opposite front rim of orbit.
Mandible rather long similar to shape of snout.
Teeth oblique slender sharp pointed entire and those in upper jaw directed posteriorly also with a notch on outer or posterior margin.
Lower teeth a little more slender than upper.
Tongue broad flat and little free except around edges.
Each corner of mouth with a short groove running along outer margin of upper jaw.
Nostrils nearer front of mouth or orbit than tip of snout a little oblique and each with a small pointed flap.
Interorbital space broad and convex.
Gillopenings 5 last two above base of pectoral and median three largest.
No spiracle.
Body covered with fine shagreen denticles not especially enlarged on back or fins.
Head with numerous small pores.
First dorsal inserted much nearer origin of pectoral than that of ventral its upper margin about equal to base of fin and slightly undulate and posteriorly ending in a slender point.
Second dorsal inserted about opposite middle of base of anal smaller than that fin and ending in a small slender point posteriorly and reaching about f of space to origin of upper caudal lobe.
Anal similar in shape inserted about midway between posterior base of ventral and origin of lower caudal lobe posterior slender point reaching about  of space to latter.
Pectoral rather small posterior margin concave and length of depressed fin about half way to origin of ventral.
Ventral small entireh behind base of first dorsal or its origin a little nearer that of pectoral than origin of lower caudal lobe.
Claspers long on their outer margin about 2 in head.
Color in alcohol graybrown above bellj and lower surface dirty creamywhite.
Lower surface of pectoral and ventral same.
Caudal paler along lower portion of vertebral column.
Iris slaty.
Length 16 inches.
One example.
Riippell suggests that Pala sorra RusselP may be this species though later Dayconsiders it equall'' near Scoliodon laticaudus Miiller and Henle.
Riippell's figure is poor as it shows a much thicker body especially the caudal peduncle and a longer snout than my example.
The teeth also appear to be figured broader.
Bleeker's account agrees and I follow him provisionally in the identity of the Red Sea form.
PRISTID.
3.
Pristia zysron Bleeker.
   '  Fishes of Coromandel I 1803 p. 9 PI.
14.
Vizagapatam.
Madras.
2 Fishes of India IV 1878 p. 712 PI.
188 fig.
2.
Madras.
3 Verh.
Bat.
Genoot.
Bijd.
Plag.
Ind.
Arch.
 XXIV 1852 p. 30.
Batavia in mari.
 This species agrees with Pristis pectinatus Latham in the absence of a lower caudal lobe.
Pristis semisagittatus Shaw and P. perrotteti Muller and Henle have a pronounced lower caudal lobe.
The groups may now stand as PEISTIS Linck.
Mag.
P. Naturg.
Gotha VI 1790 p. 31.
Type Squahis pristis Linnaeus.
PRISTIOPSIS subg.
nov.
Type Pristis perrotteti Muller and Henle.
Lower caudal lobe developed.
Xlptcrnf the ancient name of the sawfish oi'f appearance.
30 The teeth in the saws range from 23 to 27 in the left side and 23 to 28 in the right side the usual number being 26.
Eye 2f to 3 in interorbital space.
Shagreen denticles along median keels of back anterior margins of dorsals and caudal above pectorals ventrals and along lateral keel of side of tail after ventral enlarged.
Keel after first dorsal obsolete after  of space to second dorsal.
Origin of first dorsal a little behind that of ventral.
Eight examples 23f to 30inches in length.
RHINOBATID.
4.
Rhinobatos thouinianus Shaw.
.Internasal space about y in length of nasal cavity.
Denticles along middle of back enlarged those along median line thornlike.
One example 27 inches long.
DASYBATIDiE.
6 Daeybatus brevicauda Swainson.
A small example from the mouth of the Baram river is almost entirely smooth above except the caudal spines and four short spines which precede them on the median line of tail at base of caudal.
Length 10 inches.
Another from the Baram taken by Messrs. Harrison and Hiller agrees with Day's figure of Trijgon ivalga.
It also has the tail a little thickened just beyond tips of caudal spines.
Length caudal broken IH inches.
A young example possibly this species is 4y inches.
Dr. Furness.
nSwainson's name Pastinaca brevicauda seems to be the oldest available .with any certainty of identification.
Rata fluviatilis Hamilton is only to be referred to with doubt as no attempt is made to particularly designate any species under that name.
Trygon immunis Bennett is described thus Tryg.
corpore subquadrato omnino Isevi Cauda longiore spinis duabus serratis citra medium armata.
It may possibly be identical but the account is too brief.
Pastinaca dor salts Subgenus PRISTIS Linck.
Type Squalus pristis Linnaeus.
No lower caudal lobe.
Nat Tijdfi.
Ned.
Ind. Ill 1852 p. 441.
Bandjermassing in fluviis.
First is in Verh.
Bat.
Genoot.
Bijd.
Plag.
Ind.
Arch.
 XXIV 1852 p. 55.
Bandiermassing Borneo austroorientalis in fluviis.
6 Cat.
Fish.
Brit.
Mus. VIII 1870 p. 438. '
Fishes of India IV 1878 p. 729 PI.
191 fig.
2.
Madras.
8 Ace.
Fish.
Ganges 1822 p. 1 apparently called Raia lymma p. 361.
 Mem.
Life of Raffles Cat.
Zool.
Spec 1830 p. 694.
Sumatra.
Swainson'' also based on Russell is probably identical though following P. hrevicauda and therefore to be considered subsequent.
All of these names are older than Trygon walga Miiller and Henle which has had more general usage.
6.
Hypolophus sephen Forskil.
Tail with a single spine its length a little greater along free lower edge than space between tip of snout and front of eye.
Tail without asperities in front of caudal spine and apparently not so asperous posteriorly as shown in Day's figure. Only two tubercles in middle of back enlarged.
Length 35 inches.
7.
Pteroplatea micrura Schneider.
Iength of body from tip of snout to base of tail 2 in width.
Greatest width of disk would fall a little nearer center of length than shown in Day's figure.
Eye 3f in interorbital space.
Width of disk 8 inches.
Baram river.
Alfred C. Harrison Jr. and Dr. H. M. Hiller.
PLOTOSID.
8.
Plotosus canius Hamilton.
A young example has a more flattened interorbital space than the larger which is 16f inches.
The former has depressed first dorsal also reaching well beyond origin of second fin.
CHLARIID.
9.
Chlarias batrachus Linnseus.
Head from tip of snout to gillopening 5 depth about middle of base of dorsal 7 D. about 67 A. about 54
 space between origin of dorsal and occipital crest 2k in head from latter point pectoral reaching about opposite origin of dorsal.
One example in bad condition agreeing with my Sumatran specimens.
10.
Chlarias leiacanthus Bleeker.
Head 5 depth at origin of dorsal 6J width of head If in its length to end of occiput pectoral spine about 2 space between dorsal and occiput about 2f .
Traces of pale spots in same pattern as those on ' Lardner's Cabinet Cyclopoedia Nat.
Hist. II 1839 p. 319. 
Isacurrah tenkee Russell Fishes of Coromandel I 1S03 p. 3 PI.
4.
Vizagapatam.
Madras. 
Syst.
Besch.
Plagiosf. 1841 p. 159.
Indien.
Rothes Meer.
Britisches Museum.
M. HardAvicke.
Leyden Paris.
MM.
Roux and Dussumier   Fishes of India IV 1878 PI.
195 fig.
2.
L. c PL 194 fig.
2.
' Phagorus McClelland is a valid genus differing in the confluent rayed dorsal caudal and anal.
Phagorus nieuhofii Valenciennes examined.
former species.
Length 7f inches.
Baram river.
Messrs. Harrison and Hiller.
CHACIDJE.
11.
Chaca bankanensis Bleeker.
One from Kapiias river.
Length 6 inches.
Messrs. Harrison and Hiller.
SILURID.
TACHYSURIN.E.
12.
Galeichthys sondaicus Valenciennes.
A very interesting example has the mouth and pharynx nearly filled with ova in all stages of development.
They are easily seen in the pharynx through the gillarches.
The largest eggs are about 15 mm.
in diameter the others varying down to rather large shot.
Though not dissected the intestinal canal appears to be empty and the fish is a male.
Length 12 inches.
Two examples from Dr. Fmness.
Another was secured by Messrs. Harrison and Hiller in 1897.
A small example from the mouth of the Baram secured by Dr. Furness is 5 inches long.
Caudal more or less brownish and no traces of the vertical pale lines shown in Bleeker's figure.
 In this respect it agrees with the examples noted above though the maxillary iDarbels arelonger reaching origins of ventrals.
13.
TaohyBurus argyropleuron Valenciennes.
Head 3 to 3f  depth 3 to 4 D. I 7 A. v or vi 15 or 16 total length of fish 4 to 9 inches.
Rakers short shorter than filaments and not numerous.
Color in alcohol pale brown above lower surface white and together with sides washed with silvery.
Dorsal and caudal brownish.
Pectoral and ventral brownish above also outer portion of anal.
From the largest one I extracted a small Siluroid evidently the young which measures a trifle over 2 inches 52 mm..
It does not have the dark or dusky blotch seen on upper portion of adipose fin of the next example in size and top of the head is nearly smooth or hardly rugose.
Snout pale like the belly.
The next example or one second in size has first dorsal ray prolonged considerably beyond dorsal spine.
A third example has interorbital space and snout pale or whitish like belly.
Lower fins also whiter and adipose fin a little paler.
From the pharynx I extracted eggs the largest about 10 mm.
in diameter.
 Aflaf Ichth.. II 1S63 PI.
14 62. 
I have not included this specimen in the above measurements etc.
1905.1 463 They all appear to be about the same size or of similar development no small ones like those seen in the preceding species were noted.
Four examples.
   SILURIN.
APODOGLANIS gen. nov.
Type Apodoglanis furnessi sp.
nov.
This genus is related to Parasilurus Bleeker differing in the absence of ventral fins and the fewer anal rays.
A without 7oh foot rdvt an old name applied to Silurus.
14.
Apodoglanis furnessi sp.
nov. Head 4f  depth 4f  D. 4 A. iii 47 P. I 10 width of head H in its length depth of head about middle of its length If snout 2f  Fig.
2.
 Apodoglanis jurnessi Fowler.
width of mouth U interorbital space 2 length of dorsal 2 of caudal 1 of pectoral 1 base of anal about l in head and trunk.
Body rather elongate robust anteriorly and long anal region strongly compressed.
Upper profile from nape to caudal nearly straight.
Greatest depth of body about middle of length of body.
Depth of base of caudal about 2 in head i Head depressed moderately broad and triangular in profile.
Wlien viewed from above margin broadly convex.
Snout broad slightly convex and projecting beyond mandible.
Eye small without eyelid imbedded in skin of head and well anterior.
Mouth broad broadly convex and with rather thick fleshy lips.
A deep pit below front of eye extended forward as a groove to below maxillary barbel.
Teeth in rather broad bands in jaws without any projections and mandibular series divided at symphysis posteriorly only.
Teeth all small and pointed.
On each side in front of roof of mouth a small patch of vomerine teeth.
Tongue large thick fleshy and hardly free in front.
Nostrils with small elevated cutaneous rims those of anterior pair a trifle more developed.
Anterior pair near tip of snout well separated or with space between nearly double distance each one is anterior to posterior.
Posterior internasal space a trifle greater than anterior.
Maxillary barbel long in profile originating just behind anterior nostril and well laterally and when extended reaching beyond tip of depressed dorsal fin or beyond anterior anal rays a short distance.
A single mental barbel well back on each ramus or in profile originating just behind posterior nostril.
Gillopening extending forward till about opposite front margin of orbit and left branchiostegal flap folded broadly over right.
Rakers short sparse pointed slender and much shorter than filaments or about equal to diameter of pupil.
Filaments a trifle longer than horizontal orbital diameter.
A cutaneous keel along margin of shouldergirdle inside gillopening.
Bod entirely naked.
Lateral line a little high at first but descending till about midway in depth of trunk at beginning of anal fin and then continuous to base of caudal.
All of bifurcations which form tubes given off below.
Dorsal without spine first rays longest inserted before anal or a little before first third of length of entire fish.
Anal long rays more or less equal lower margin straight and edges rounded and insertion of fin a little before tip of depressed dorsal.
Caudal liroad margin truncate and corners rounded.
Pectoral broadly expanded its origin about level with mouth spine small about f in fin and depressed fin reaching about f of space to origin of anal or not quite opposite origin of dorsal.
Ventral absent.
Vent close in front of anal fin with papilla.
Color in alcohol brown paler below.
Fins pale brown.
Dorsal apparently unmarked.
Basal f of anal a slightly tawnjbrown margin pale like dorsal and caudal.
Base of caudal dusky sharply defined and outer submarginal portion with a broad diffuse dusky shade showing traces of indistinct darker though diffuse spots.
Pectoral unmarked.
Back and base of anal variegated with dusky blotches irregular in size shape or pattern and' definition though mostly large.
Lower surface of head pale brownish.
Maxillary barbels like upper siuface of head though under edges like lower surface of head.
Mandibular barbels similar to latter.
Iris slaty.
Length 7 inches.
Type No.
2485 W. I.
A. P. Baram river Borneo.
1897.
Dr. W. H. Furness.
Named for Dr. W. H. Furness 3rd of Philadelphia explorer of Borneo who collected the type.
15.
Ompok nebuloBUS Vaillant.
Head Sy'V depth 5 D. I 4 A.
69 P. I 13 V. 1 10 width of head If in its length from tip of mandible depth of head at occiput If length of dorsal 2  of lower caudal lobes ly of pectoral If  of ventral 3 depth of caudal peduncle 6 snout 2f in head from tip of upper jaw maxillary 2 width of mouth 1 interorbital space 2 eye 6in interorbital space base of anal 2 in total length of fish.
Body elongate compressed greatest depth about origin of anal and upper profile of back nearly straight from occiput to caudal.
Ijower basal profile of anal gradually sloping up to narrow caudal peduncle.
Head broad depressed in front and becoming conic posteriorly.
Upper profile slightly concave.
Anterior margin of head when viewed from above broadly convex.
Snout broad depressed and with convex margin.
Eye small lateral ellipsoid a little anterior and behind corner of mouth.
A deep convex fissure before lower anterior margin of orbit leaving a narrow preorbital rim.
Lips thick and fleshy with thick folds at corners of mouth.
Mandible well protruded.
Teeth numerous sharp pointed slender and in rather broad uninterrupted bands Avith projections in jaws.
Vomerine teeth smaller similar in two approximated patches anteriorly in roof of mouth which is otherwise smooth and edentulous.
Tongue smooth broad thick fleshy rounded and but little free on edges.
Nostrils small inconspicuous and space between each about equal.
Anterior nostrils in short cutaneous tubes near front edge of snout their distance from posterior about  of space between.
Posterior would fall about midway in space between anterior and front rim of orbit.
Maxillary barbel long slender filamentous and reaching beyond tip of depressed dorsal or about first y of anal base.
Each ramus of mandible with a small thin barbel placed about midway in space between nostrils and length a trifle greater than same.
Gillopening extending forward about opposite space between mandibular barbels.
Rakers 5  10 first eight just below bend also with an inner prong.
Several of those above bend also bifid.
In form cpnic sharp pointed firm and length nearly  that of longest filaments.
Longest filaments a trifle more than horizontal orbital diameter or not quite equal to space between anterior and posterior nostrils.
Branchiostegal flaps broad left forming a broad flap over right and radii 19.
Isthmus rather broad and fleshy.
Skin smooth naked and without papillae.
A number of pores on head small and inconspicuous.
Lateral line a little high at first and continuous composed of short horizontally exposed tubes following one another and not arborescent.
Dorsal rather long inserted about first third in total length of fish first ray flexible and not quite as long as second which is longest others graduated down.
Anal long basally.
Same region also overlaid by a cutaneous membrane extending out on half of depth of fin except posteriorly Avhere it gradually recedes till about ninth ray from end where only a little less than a fourth is covered.
First few graduated rays of anal enveloped in basal membrane.
Caudal comparatively small  forked and lower loVe longer.
Pectoral rather broadly expanded reaching a little past base of dorsal spine flexible distally and second and third rays longest.
Ventral small second and third developed rays longest rounded basally covered with membrane which is sharply defined like that of anal though not extending proportionately so far out and inserted about opposite origin of dorsal.
Pectoral with similar membrane to that of ventral basally.
Anal begins a little before tip of depressed ventral and vent in this space close behind ventral.
Color in alcohol deep brown.
Abdomen and lower surface of head dull white.
Fins brown becoming dusky marginally on caudal and anal.
Dorsal duskybrown and ventral more paler or Avhitish than pectoral.
Upper edge of pectoral dusky.
Alargin of mandible brownish composed of scattered brown dots of minute size gradually fading off to white of lower surface.
Iris slaty brown.
liength 21 f inches.
Three examples largest described above.
The others do not differ showing about the same fin and branchiostegal radii though the line of insertion of dorsal and anal is a trifle more anterior.
16.
Ompok jaynei sp.
nov. Head 4  depth 4f  D. i 3 A.
56 P. I 12 V. 7 width of head If in its length depth of head at posterior margin of eye 2 length of dorsal li pectoral lyV ventral 2f  base of caudal 4 snout 3 from tip of upper jaw width of mouth 1 interorbital space If maxillary 3f  pectoral spine 2J eye 4f in interorbital space base of anal If in total length of fish.
Body long compressed upper profile rather evenly curved from tip of snout to dorsal and then more or less straight to caudal.
Greatest depth at origin of ventral.
Head deep flattened below depressed in front and somewhat constricted above posteriorly.
Snout broad depressed and upper margin of head broadly convex when viewed above.
Mouth broad with rather thin lips and mandible projecting.
Eye small circular lateral 1905.
467 anterior and distinctly behind corner of mouth.
A deep fissure before and below eye leaving a narrow preorbital rim.
Teeth fine sharp pointed and in rather broad bands in jaws without backward projections.
Vomerine teeth similar small and in two approximated patches in front of mouth.
Tongue large rounded fleshy thick its margin little free and with a small papilla medianly above.
Nostrils like those of preceding species with small cutaneous rims those of anterior pair better developed.
Maxillary barbel long filamentous and reaching a little more than half of length of entire fish or well beyond tip of depressed dorsal.
Mandibular barbel slender inserted about opposite posterior nostril and reaching about opposite origin of pectoral fin.
Fig.
3.
 Ompok jaynei Fowler.
Gillopening extending forward about opposite posterior nostril.
Rakers 2  7 simple rather firm slender pointed and about f of longest filaments.
Longest filaments about equal to horizontal orbital diameter.
Branchiostegal flaps broad left one forming a broad flap over right and radii about 8.
Isthmus broad.
Body naked skin smooth.
Head with a number of pores.
Lateral line continued to base of caudal.
Dorsal small slender first ray flexible and insertion of fin a little before first third in entire length of fish.
Anal basis long and basal enveloping membrane also continued along lower edge of caudal peduncle and out on base of caudal.
Membrane on base of anal extending out as in preceding species and last ray separate from caudal distally.
Caudal small damaged.
Pectoral broad expanded rounded median rays longest and reaching beond base of dorsal and first anal rays.
Pectoral spine pungent curved outer margin entire about f length of fin or reaching opposite posterior basal margin of dorsal at least and basally covered with a rather broad membrane.
Aentral inserted about opposite origin of dorsal small rounded reaching a little beyond tip of depressed pectoral and also covered with a rather broad basal membrane.
Yent close behind ventrals with a papilla and anal fin close behind it.
Color in alcohol brown rather paler on trunk than on fins which are pale brownish.
Several indistinct brown cloudings or blotches on trunk and base of anal.
Barbels brownish.
Iris slaty.
Length 3f inches.
Type No.
13929 W. I.
A. P. Borneo.
189S.
Dr. W. H. Furness.
Only one example the type described above.
It is close to Ompok leiacanthus Bleeker but differs in coloration.
That of 0. jaynei is blotched and has dark ends to the pectoral fins.
Ompok horneensis Steindachner also differs in the uniform coloration except the dark spot before the caudal.
Named for Prof. Horace Jayne formerly Director of the Wistar Institute of Anatomy of Philadelphia to whom I am principally indebted for this opportunity of stud3dng the fishes of Borneo.
17.
Kryptopterus oryptopterus Bleeker.
Head of depth 4f  D. 2 A.
60 P. I 14 V. I 5 width of head If in its length depth of head at anterior margin of orbit 2 width of mouth 2 snout 3 eye 3 interorbital space If ventral 5 pectoral 5 in head and trunk.
Rakers rather long slender and numerous.
18.
Kryptopterus limpok Bleeker.
Head 6 to 6i depth 5 to 5 D. 2 A.
69 to 77 P. I 14 or 15 V. i 7 or 8 pectoral 1 to 1 j in head ventral 2 to 2f  pectoral spine If to If width of head 1 to If snout 2 to 3 from tip of upper jaw eye 3 to 4o ' width of mouth 2 to 2f  interorbital space 2 to 2f .
Inner edge of pectoral spine pectinate.
About 12 inches long.
Four examples from the Baram river some from upper waters.
19.
Kryptopterus palembangensis Bleeker.
Head 5f  deptn 3i D. 2 A.
61 P. I 11 V. i 5 width of head U in its length depth of head at posterior margin of orbit about If in Callichrous Silurodes horneensis Steindachner Abhand.
Senck.
Nat.
GesFrankfurt XXV 2 1901 p. 445 PL 18 fig.
3.
Aus dem BaramFlusse BorneoHerr Prof.
Kiikenthal.
its length snout 3 eye 3 width of mouth 2 interorlital space 2 depth at base of caudal 2 length of pectoral 4 in head and trunksupper caudal lobe 4jj.
Each ramus of mandible with a short inconspicuous barbel.
Rakers rather slender long and numerous.
Pectoral and margin of caudal tinted with dusky.
A dark or dusky postopercular blotch.
One example 5f inches long 20.
Mioronema phalaoronotus Bleeker.
Head 5i and 5i depth 5 and 5 A.
85 and 87 P. I 15 and I 14 V. I 6 and i 7 width of head If and If depth of head at posterior margin of eye 2and 2 pectoral 1 and 1 base of caudal 4 and 3f  length of ventral 3 and 3  width of mouth at corners 2 and 2  length of snout 2 and 3 in head from tip of upper jaw maxillary 2f and 2f  interorbital space 2j and 2 orbit 52and 5.
Two examples larger 12 inches long.
Baram river.
Micronema micronema Bleeker Java is closely related and probably differs in the dark spot at the base of the caudal.
The small example described as Cryptopterus micronema by Prof. Vaillant' cannot belong to this species on account of the exceptionally small number of anal rays.
Bleeker's figvne of Micronema typus is however identical with the example before me.
BAGRIN.E.
21.
Hemibagrus nemurus Valenciennes.
Head 3 depth 4J D. I 7 A. iv 9 width of head U in its length eye 2 in interorbital space width of mouth 2 in head.
Depressed dorsal reaching adipose fin membranes between rays not deeply incised and rays themselves expanded.
Ventral inserted nearly as far forward as opposite middle of base of dorsal and when depressed reaching origin of anal.
No dark humeral blotch.
liength 12 inches.
Baram river.
Male.
Harrison and Hiller.
Another example 18f inches long with same data evidently a ' Silurus micronemus Bleeker Verh.
Bat.
Genoot.
Sil.
Bat.
Con.
 XXI 1846 p.  .
Not consulted.
20 Notes Leyd.
Mus. XXIV.
November 1902 p. 48. 
Atlas Ichth. II 1863 p. 91 PL 45 93 fig.
1.
22 Bagroides melapterus Bleeker.
Head 4 depth 4 D. I 7 A. v 11 width of head 1 in its length snout 3 eye 5f  interorbital space 4.
Lateral line wdth a series of minute cutaneous filaments most distinct anteriorly.
Coloration not exactly agreeing with Bleeker's figure.
More white on posterior portion of adipose dorsal and distal portions of dorsal anal pectoral and ventral rays darker or deeper than bodycolor.
A brown streak from upper edge of snout horizontally below eye back across cheek also side of head with more brown.
Upper lobe of caudal a little more forked than lower.
Length 6y inches.
One example from the Paris Museum in Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
female has Head 3 depth 4f  D. I.
7 A. iv 8 width of head If in its length eye 3 in interorbital space width of mouth 2 in head.
Depressed dorsal with only prolonged tips of rays reaching adipose dorsal.
The rays of this fin are similar to those found on examples by Prof. Vaillant. In this case the dorsal spine is furnished with a long cutaneous point while those of the three following branched rays are long slender and pointed and graduated from the first which is longest.
Ventral inserted about opposite the last dorsal rays and when depressed not reaching origin of anal.
22.
Hypselobagrus nigrioeps Valenciennes.
Head 4 depth 4 snout 2 in head eye 4 width of mouth 3y interorbital space 3.
One example 6y inches long. 23 Glyptothorax platypogon Valenciennes.
Head 3i depth 5 D. I 6 A. iv 10 P. I 9 V. i 5 width of head If in its length  depth of head over middle of eye 2  snout 2  width of mouth 2 dorsal spine If to end of its filament 1 pectoral spine If length of pectoral fin 1 ventral l least depth of caudal peduncle 2h base of anal ly interorbital space 4 eye 2 in interorbital space.
Body rather robust compressed and greatest depth about origin of spinous dorsal.
Caudal peduncle compressed rather deep its least depth about If in its length.
Head broad convex above and depressed or flattened below.
Upper profile evenly though shallowly convex from tip of snout to origin of spinous dorsal.
Snout long broad flattened medianly protruding well beyond mandible and profile slightly curved.
When viewed from above margin of head is broadly convex.
Eye small superior a little longer than deep and a trifle posterior in length of head.
Mouth broad and lips rather fleshy and thin.
Maxillary barbel broad basally and reaching a trifle beyond origin of pectoral.
Nasal barbel small reaching a trifle over half way to front of eye.
Outer mental barbel not quite extending to origin of pectoral.
Inner mental barbel a little shorter than outer.
Rather broad bands of fine slender numerous pointed teeth in jaws.
No teeth on roof of mouth or on tongue.
Tongue broad thick but little differentiated and only its front edge slightly free.
Nostrils close together large near front edge  Macrones nemurws Vaillant Notes Leyd.
Mus. XXIV November 1902 p. 54.
 This agrees with an example from the Paris Museum in Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. except as notes above will show.
The Academv's example has Head 4 depth 4  D. I 7  A. iv 7 i  P. I 10  V. i 5  width of head 1 in its length  snout 2  eye Sf width of mouth 3 interorbital space 3f  dorsal spine Ifpectoral spine If  base of adipose fin about 2j in head and trunk.
Lengtli 5 inches.
of snout and nasal barbel situated between posterior pair a little more remote from each other than space between anterior pair.
Anterior internasal space about If in interorbital space.
Top of head convex and fontanel continued to interparietal region.
Occipital process not joining dorsal process.
Gillopening broad membranes not free from isthmus and extending anteriorly about first f of snout.
Rakers 3  8 slender pungent with flexible tips and longest longer than filaments or about 2 in interorbital space.
Knob on shouldergirdle prominent.
Isthmus broad.
Body covered with smooth slcin.
Traces of coriaceouslike longi tudinal papillse on head above.
Disk laminae on chest obsolete owing perhaps to preservation.
Humeral process with several rather coarse strife.
Lateral line continuous sloping and about midway on side of caudal peduncle.
Dorsal fin inserted about midway between tip of snout and origin of adipose fin spine robust margins entire and with a prolonged cutaneous tip.
Dorsal rays graduated down from first which is longest.
Adipose dorsal small inserted nearer base of caudal than base of last dorsal ray.
Space between dorsal and adipose dorsal with about 9 rather small spinous knobs rounded and covered with adiposelike tissue though at least 5 or 6 still distinguishable in profile.
Anal inserted a little before origin of adipose dorsal or a little nearer base of last dorsal ray than base of caudal and radii graduated down from first branched ray which is longest.
Pectoral inserted nearer origin of dorsal than tip of snout spine reaching about opposite base of first dorsal ray with a cutaneous point almost as long as first or longest ray and inner margin of spine with about 9 long antrorse spines.
Ventral inserted opposite posterior edge of base of dorsal and reaching f of space of anal.
Genital aperture and vent well separated near last third in space between origin of ventral and anal.
Color in alcohol brown belly breast and lower surface of head paler.
Caudal and dorsal with pale brown or whitish otherwise dusky and other fins also marked with brownish.
Maxillary barbel brown above pale or whitish below and lower mental barlels like lower surface of head.
Iris slaty.
Length 4 inches.
Twentyfom examples most of which represent a large series of yomg.
Two of the larger ones agree exactly with Dr. Steindachner's excellent figiue though they have the lamina on the thorax rather  Glyptosternum kukenthali Steindachner Abhand.
Senck.
Nat.
Ges.
Frankfurt XXV 2 1901 p. 448 PI.
18 figs.
.5 5a.
Aus dem BaramFlusse Borneo.
Herr Prof.
Kiikenthal.
472 July indistinct.
I am unable on comparison with Sumatran examples to find any differences except such as may be due to individual variation.
The Borneo examples which maybe considered topotqoical of kukenthali seem to leave little chance for doubt that Dr. Steindachner's example is simply the adult.
All my Sumatran examples show at least traces of the interdorsal spinous knobs or processes and their coloration evidently was somewhat purplishtinted according to my original notes when first received in arrack.
24.
Akysis baramensis spnov. Head 3 depth 5 D. i I 5 A. ii 6 ii P. I 5 ii V. i 5 width Fig.
4.
 Akysis baramensis Fowler.
of head 1 in its length depth of head If width of mouth 2 length of snout 2 interorlital space 3 length of depressed dorsal 1 of lower caudal lobe 1 of pectoral 1 ventral 1 least depth of caudal peduncle 2f .
Body elongate slender depressed and greatest depth about opposite middle of depressed pectoral.
Caudal peduncle compressed its least depth about If in its length from posterior base of adipose dorsal fin.
Head broad depressed evenly convex above and lower portion more or less flattened.
Breast flattened.
Snout produced broad and rounded eonvexly in profile when viewed from above.
Eye small superior anterior and eyelid not developed.
Mouth broadly convex inferior and in profile tip of mandible would fall in first f of space between tip of snout and front of eye.
A band of fine teeth in each jaw none on roof of mouth or on tongue.
Tongue broad smooth and little free in mouth.
Two large nasal cavities on side of snout in front of eye near together and nasal barbel originating on frenum between.
Nasal barbel about equal to ventral or reaching for about first f of length of head.
Maxillary barbel rather thick at first and reaching about first third of depressed pectoral.
Outer mental barbel nearly as long.
Inner mental barbel a little over half length of outer.
Interorbital space flattened.
Occipital process not forming a complete bony bridge to spinous process of dorsal.
Gillopenings inferior well separated by a broad isthmus and extending forward about opposite to eye.
Rakers about 1  7 slender pointed moderately long and much shorter than filaments.
Branchiostegals 7 upper clavate.
Skin smooth on head and along lateral line more or less papillate especially former anteriorly.
Lateral line complete and median in depth of body along side.
First dorsal inserted alout first third of total length of fish spine robust and about f of its own length when combined with adiposelike prolongation and smooth.
When depressed it reaches about f of space to origin of adipose fin.
Adipose fin large rather high and its base about If in head.
Anal high its origin a trifle in advance of that of adipose fin and when depressed its length a little more than that of dorsal.
Pectoral a little longer than dorsal and spine robust with posterior margin coarsely serrate with an adiposelike prolongation.
When depressed not quite reaching opposite postei'ior basal margin of dorsal though beyond origin of ventral.
Ventral not quite reaching origin of anal.
Vent well forward or close behind roots of ventrals.
Color in arrack duskybrown forming about five blotches transversely on body and mostly above.
First included in head second below dorsal third below adipose fin fourth on caudal peduncle at base of caudal and fifth on caudal distally.
These all connected along middle of side of body by isthmi of same color.
Dorsal duskybrown.
Adipose fiji largely duskybrown.
Caudal except as noted whitish and tip of each lobe same.
Ventral and anal whitish except a small dusky blotch on each medianly.
Pectoral with spine whitish fin otherwise dusky.
Lower surface of body including head and abdomen principally whitish.
Paler areas on upper surface of body brownishwhite.
Iris slaty.
Nasal and maxillary barbels whitish mostly brownish above and mental barbels entirely white.
Length 1 inches.
Type No.
14149 W. I.
A. P. Baram river Borneo.
1898.
Dr. W. H. FiArness.
Also 25 paratypes with same data.
From Akysis armatus Vaillant it differs in the coloration that species having round pale spots.
This species shows great color variation in alcohol some examples are almost black the contrast between the coloration above and below being very pronounced while in others this is rather obscure.
Other examples have the blotches on the body distinct and also those on the fins while others are more or less unicolored.
The amount of blackish or brownish on the ventrals also varies in some examples these fins are noticeably dark while those of others are pale.
The largest example measures a little over 2 inches.
Named for the Baram river in British Borneo.
OOBITIDID.
COBITIDIN.E.
25.
Botia macracantha Bleeker.
The oblique dark brown band on head not so pronounced as in Bleeker's figure. Anterior margins of pectoral ventral and anal pale like belly.
Color of smaller examples agrees best.
Three from the Kapuas rivei.
Harrison and Hiller. 
Notes Leyd.
Mas. XXIV Xovember 1902 p. 64 fig.
10. 
Prof. Vaillant has recently given an exposition of the differential characters of the fishes of this family.
He divides them into two groups based on the presence and absence of the preorbital spine.
This appears certainly to be of subfamily value.
His Enopla will then correspond to the Cobitidime as proposed above 'hich may be t'pified by C'obitis Linnanis type Cobitis tcenia Linmeusl.
This group has the erectile spine on the side of the head.
Tlie other Loaches or Anopia may be known as subfamily MISGURNIN.E.
No erectile spine on side of head.
Typified by Misgurnus Lacpfede.
A species belonging in this group has recently been described by Prof. Vaillant.
It appears to differ from Nemacheilus Van Hasselt and may be indicated as a new genus.
VAILLANTELLA gen. nov.
Type Xeinaclteilus euepipterus Vaillant.
It is closely related to Nemacheilus differing at once in the long dorsal basis tlie radii numbering about 64.
Named for Prof. Leon Vaillant tlie distinguished ichthyologist of the Museum of Natural History of Paris and well known for his researches in East Indian ichthvologv.
 Atlas ichth. Ill 1863 PI.
1 102 fig.
2.
HOMALOPTERID.
HOMALOPTERIN.E.
Ventrals separate not united to form a disk.
26.
Homaloptera orthogoniata Vaillant.
Head 5 depth 4 D. iii 8 A. iii 6 P. v 10 i V. ii 8 scales 63 in lateral line to base of caudal 20 scales before dorsal 11 scales obliquely back from origin of dorsal to lateral line 12 scales obliquely forward from origin of ventral to lateral line and same of anal  width of head H in its length depth of head over eye 2 snout If width of mouth 4 interorbital space 2 first developed dorsal ray 1 first developed anal ray If  length of ventral 1  least depth of caudal peduncle 2.
Body elongate somewhat compressed rounded in middle lower or ventral region of head and abdomen flattened and trunk posteriorly well compressed.
Upper profile anterior to dorsal more or less evenly convex.
Greatest depth about origin of dorsal fin.
Caudal peduncle compressed and its least depth about half its length.
Head flattened below more or less evenly convex above and upper profile nearly straight or only very shallowly convex.
Snout long tip rounded and jiroduced well beyond mouth.
Eye small high directed rather laterally near first f in length of head and with free eyelid.
Mouth inferior rather small and lips thick and fleshy.
Jaws rather soft especially upper.
Lower lip formed into three thick fleshy folds.
A short thick conical cirrus at each corner of mouth and 4 more along front edge of snout just above upper lip.
Tongue not distinct.
Nostrils adjoining frenum between narrow posterior much the larger and about in last third of length of snout.
Interorbital space rather broad a little convex and greater than internasal space.
Gillopening lateral not quite reaching forward till opposite posterior margin of ee.
Rakers short points much shorter than filaments and not numerous.
Isthmus broad its width equal in length to gillopening.
Scales rather small especially those on lower costal region where they crowd out and completely cover abdomen.
Breast head and fins except a few small scales on base of caudal entirely naked.
Scales on postventral region large like those on side of body.
Inner basal regions of pectoral and ventral also naked.
Lateral line of simple ' I have not consulted the original account of Homaloptera Van Hasselt.
The earliest one I have seen is in Bull.
Sci.
Nat.
Geol.
Paris II 1824 p. 377.
I accept the name in accordance with Bleeker's restriction of Homaloptera javanica Van Hasselt as the type.
31 tubes nearly median in depth of body and continuous.
A number of small pores on head.
Dorsal inserted a little nearer tip of snout than lase of caudal or a little before origin of ventral and first developed ray highest though not reaching as far posteriorly as tip of last ray when fin is depressed.
Anal well posterior inserted about midway between origin of ventral and base of caudal and first developed ray which is longest reaching well beyond last ray when fin is depressed.
Caudal damaged evidently little if any emarginate.
Pectoral with first simple rays robust fin broad rounded and reaching about f of space to origin of dorsal.
Ventral similar only with first two rays simple and enlarged and when depressed reaching posteriorly about as far as tip of last dorsal ray or almost to vent.
Vent near tip of ventral well before origin of anal.
Color in alcohol brown clouded with large distinct blotches or areas of deep brown irregular though one distinct between dorsal and ventral.
Ventral surface a little paler brown than upper surface.
A brown streak from tip of snout to eye and continued behind up to occiput and another down across side of head.
These streaks all with narrow pale brownish margins.
Dorsal and anal brownishwhite clouded with dull blackish or blackishbrown.
Anal similar also pectoral and ventral though these fins all have more white and the dark colors more diffuse.
Iris slaty.
Length 4J inches.
Eight examples.
These beautiful fish all vary in the markings some having the pale areas most pronounced while in others the dark markings predominate.
In the young they appear best defined some having the ventrals with much black.
HOMALOPTEROIDES gen. nov.
Type Homalopfera xvossinkii Bleeker.
Dorsal inserted well behind ventral while in Homaloptera it begins in advance.
'OiaXd level r.rspu'j wing or fiii 5'9 appearance.
27.
Homalopteroides wassinkii Bleeker.
Head 4 depth 7 D. in 7 i A. ii 5 i P. v 9 V. ii 7 i scales in lateral line about 38 from gillopening to base of caudal 18 scales before dorsal about 7 scales in an oblique series from origin of dorsal to lateral line about 5 scales obliquely forward from origin of anal to lateral line about 15 scales between dorsal and caudal on middle of back width of head  in its length depth of head over posterior margin of orbit 2 length of snout 2  eye 3 width of mouth about 4 interorbital space 3f  length of deiressed dorsal H  of caudal about same of anal If of pectoral 3f in head and trunk  of ventral 4f  least depth of caudal peduncle 3.
Bod' slender depressed elongate convexly rounded above and flattened below only caudal region of tnuik compressed.
Greatest depth about origin of dorsal.
Least depth of caudal peduncle abovit If in its length.
Head triangular when viewed above tip rounded convex above and flattened below.
Snout more or less depressed above.
Eye large superior rounded and a trifle posterior in head.
Mouth convex rather small and jaws cartilaginous.
Four superior barbels on upper lip and one at each corner of mouth which is a little the longer.
Tongue not free or distinct.
Interorbital space slightly convex.
Nostrils close together posterior much larger and close to front of eye.
Gillopening lateral a little less than width of broad isthmus.
Scales moderately small those on anterior part of body smaller than elsewliere.
Breast naked and scales on costal region not altogether extending over median ventral line.
Head and fins naked.
Lateral line of simple tubes and continuous to base of caudal midway on side.
Origin of dorsal a little behind origin of ventral or a little nearer base of caudal than tip of snout.
Origin of anal a little nearer base of caudal than origin of ventral and reaching about f of distance to former.
Caudal emarginate.
Pectoral large reaching ventral.
Aentral reaching for f of distance to anal.
Color in arrack brown with about 5 diffuse brown blotches on back.
Lower surface whitish.
Fins whitish dorsal and caudal slightly darker and all with several brown blotches.
Iris slaty.
Length If inches.
Fifteen examples.
GASTROMYZONIN.
Ventral fins united to form a disk.
28.
Gastromyzon borneensis Giinther.o Head 4f  depth at origin of dorsal 6 greatest width of body 3 30 Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
Lond. XIV 4 1874 p. 454.
Mountain torrents of the interior oi Borneo.
These specimens come from the sources of the Mingalong river. 
British Museum.
Steindachner Abhand.
Senck.
Nat.
Ges.
Frankfurt XXV 2 1901 p. 4.55.
Aus dem BaramFlusse auf Borneo.
THerr Prof.
Kukenthal.
Vaillant Notes Leijd.
Mus. XXIV November 1902. pp.
18.
23.
Haut Sibau.
Kapoeas superieur  Bassin du Sibau.
Bloeoe.
Mahakan ou Koetei superieur.
Lepidoglanis monticola Vaillant Congr.
Int.
Zool.
Paris Compt.
Rend. 18S9 1890 p. 82.
La montagne de Kina Balu.
Borneo.
M.
Whitehead.
Gastromyzon monticola Vaillant Bull.
Soc.
Philomathiquc Paris Compt.
Rend. Ill 8 189091 1891 p. 6.
Remark.
Vaillant Nour.
Arch.
Mus.
Hist.
Nat.
Paris V 3 1893 p. 94 PL 1. figs.
33e.
KinaBalou.
M.
Whitehead.
D. III.
6 II  A. I I 4 i P. 28 V. 16 iv scales about 63 in lateral line to base of caudal and tubes in about same niuiiber about 36 small scales before dorsal about 15 scales in a vertical series between origin of dorsal and lateral line 8 scales obliquely back from origin of anal to lateral line about 28 scales between last dorsal ray and first rudimentary caudal ray head to occiput 1 in its greatest width length of snout about 1 in length of head to gillopening width of mouth onl' a trifle less interorbital space 2 internasal space 3 greatest width of breast between bases of pectorals ventrally equal to greatest width of head and same of ventrals 1 in latter length of depressed dorsal a little less than length of head caudal 1 length of depressed anal 1 least depth of caudal peduncle 2.
Body depressed broad narrow in profile with greatest depth at origin of dorsal.
Greatest width of body that of head opposite gillopenings.
Ventral surface flattened and with a small cutaneous or fleshy flap on costal region between pectoral and ventral.
Caudal peduncle small compressed and its length about equal to its least depth.
Head large convex above flattened below and separated from breast by a thin cutaneous fold.
When viewed from above profile is truncate in front.
Snout pronounced though not beyond margin of disk.
Cheek not convex.
Mouth very broad without teeth osseous jaws smooth and lips thin upper broader.
Tongue not developed.
A small short fleshy papilla at each corner of mouth and four others along upper lip.
Eye small circular superior directed laterally and near last fourth in length of head.
Eyelid free.
Nostrils conspicuous adjoining or only separated by a thin frenum and near last third in length of snout.
Interorbital space broad a trifle convex or rather flattened.
Gillopening small its length a little more than orbit and nearly midway in depth of head above base of pectoral.
Scales small striate and those on anterior part of body minute and crowded.
Head naked and also entire lower surface within disk.
Fins scaleless.
Scales extending on postventral region.
Head with a number of small pores above.
Lateral line of simple tubes continious and about midway in depth of body.
first branched dorsal ray highest and origin of fin midway in body without caudal.
Anal well posterior first ray spinelike first branched ray longest origin of fin nearer base of caudal than base of last dorsal ray and depressed fin reaching past latter.
Caudal oblong exanded and truncate with rounded corners.
Pectoral and ventral arranged to form an abdominal disk and both with long bases.
Radii of both fins also graduated so that posterior are longest.
''entral fiiLS united posteriorly by a membrane though both bases are distinct.
Color in alcohol blackishbrown generally disk pale brownish or whitish.
Narrow vermiculating lines of pale brownish on head above.
Upper surface of body with irregular pale and somewhat vermiculating diffuse lines leaving possibly eight or nine blotches medianly.
Three laterally entire length of trunk.
Dorsal and caudal brownishwhite with about three broad blackishbrown transverse bands.
Pectoral and ventral dusky above edges narrowly pale and upper surface mottled with dark brown more or less diffusely.
Ventral paler.
Both fins tinted with a little brownish below.
Anal pale with a submarginal and basal tinge of brownish.
Iris slaty.
Length 4 inches.
A large series of 193 examples of all ages.
Individual variation in color is very noticeable.
The larger or adult examples all have the pale vermiculating lines on the head pronounced though in some they are more numerous.
In a number of young examples If inches long they are fewer like the specimen described.
The markings on the fins and body also vary greatly and sometimes the latter form vertical bands.
Some small examples are nearly uniform brown above in alcohol.
Others have the upper surface of the head marked with very numerous small brown spots due to the equally numerous pale reticulating lines.
Young examples also differ in their relatively shorter body and rounded profile of front of head when viewed from above.
CYPRINID.
LABEONIN.E.
29.
Dangila cuvieri Valenciennes.
Head 4f  depth 3 D iv 26 A. iii 6 scales 35 in lateral line to base of caudal and 2 more on latter snout 2f in head eye 3 interorbital space 2f  pectoral Ijg  ventral 1 least depth of caudal peduncle 2.
Length 5yV inches.
30.
Osteochilus melanopleurus Bleeker.
Four examples.
One from the Kapuas river in western Borneo ' Osteochilus vittatus Valenciennes .
Three small examples in the Academy from the Paris Museum.
Bleeker's figure evidently represents the adult in which the lateral band is lost.
The two small examples before me have this very distinct and above and below with traces of indistinct series of pale spots longitudinally or parallel.
Just before root of caudal appears a dark spot another at latter and both in dark lateral band.
Traces of this are seen in the larger example though its colors are paler.
It measures about 2 inches 72 mm.
in length.
Bleeker's figure occurs in Atlas Ichth. Ill 1863 PI.
16 117 fig.
2 not plate 17 or 118 as referred to in the text.
taken by Harrison and Hiller in 1897 has Head 3  depth 2f  D. ii 18 A.
Ill 6 scales 50 to base of caudal 2 more on latter length 7i inches.
It agrees well with Bleeker's figure in the color pattern.
Three other examples from the Baram river one taken by Dr. Furness in November 1898 measures 20 inches while the others secured by Harrison and Hiller measure 19 and 24 inches respectively.
They show Head 3f  depth 2f to 3 I iv 16 to 18 A. in 6 scales 41 to 44 in lateral line to base of caudal and 5 or 6 more on latter 10 scales between origin of dorsal and lateral line and 8 obliquely forward from origin of anal to latter width of head 1 to If in its length snout 2f to 2f  eye 5 to 51 interorbital space about 2 least depth of caudal peduncle If to 2.
Dr. Furness's example shows the bases of all the fins at present in alcohol pale buff with a slight pinkish tint.
The silvery spots of the smaller example from the Kapuas are not evident.
Also another example lOj inches long from Dr. Furness.
It was taken in the Baram river in 1897.
31.
OsteocMlus kappenii Bleeker.
Head 3 depth 2h D. iv 17 A. in 6 scales 29 in lateral line to base of caudal 3 more on latter 5 scales between origin of dorsal and lateral line and 4 between latter and origin of ventral  width of head 1 in its length  snout 3  eye 4  interorbital space 2.
Snout short and broad obtuse and its length in profile but little more than diameter of eye.
Back well elevated nape well convex and upper anterior profile steep and straight.
Pectoral long nearly reaching origin of ventral.
Along each series of scales longitudinally a welldefined brown band.
On caudal peduncle at base of caudal traces of a brown spot.
One example 3inches about 98 mm.
in length.
This example seems to agree somewhat with the notes under OsteocMlus kahajanensis of Dr. Steindachner from the Baram river.
In Bleeker's original account the depth will be seen to be a little over 4 in what is presumably the total length while the head is given as 5.
Bleeker's figure published later agrees except that the head is a little larger.
Dr. Steindachner gives the depth as 2f to 2 which is certainly not in agreement with kahajanensis.
82.
Osteochilus harrisoni sp.
nov. Head 3 depth 2 D. ii 16 A. iii 5 i P. i 15 V. i 8 scales 33 in lateral line to base of caudal and 2 more on latter 6 scales be Rohita kahajanensis Bleeker Act.
Soc.
Sci.
Ind.
Neerl.
Tiend.
Bijd.
Ich.
Born.
 II 1857 p. 18.
In flumine Kahajan Borneo meridionalis.
33 Atlas Ichth. Ill 1863 Pi.
8 109 fig.
1.
 Abhand.
Senck.
Nat.
Ges.
Frankfurt XXV 2 1901 p. 452.
1905.
481 tween origin of dorsal and lateral line obliquely back uppermost scale verv small 5 scales between lateral line and origin of ventral lowest scale very small  10 scales before dorsal width of head H in its length dep of head 1 snout 2j eye 4i width of mouth 4 interorbital space 2 second simple dorsal ray ls second simple anal ray IJ pectoral 1 ventral 1 least depth of caudal peduncle If lower caudal lobe 3 in head and trunk base of dorsal 2.
Body elongate compressed though robust greatest depth at origin of dorsal and profiles more or less similarly convex.
Back but little elevated and its profile convex from occiput to dorsal.
Caudal peduncle rolUSt compressed and its least depth about equal to its length.
Fig.
Osteochilus harrisoni Fowler.
Head rather small compressed broad robust and both upper and lower profiles inclined similarly also nearly straight.
Snout long broad convex obtuse above and somewhat declivous in front.
Eye rather small a little posterior to middle of length of head circular and not much above middle of depth of head.
Pupil large and circular.
Mouth inferiorly terminal broad the gape not extending far laterally.
Lips rather thick fleshy and plicate.
Jaws horny and with a rather sharp edge.
Premaxillaries protractile.
Four upper mental barbels upper lateral near edge of snout and lower at corner of mouth also much longer or about reaching opposite middle of orbit.
Nostrils adjoining anterior in a short cutaneous tube lateral much nearer eye thaiftip of snout and level with upper margin of eye.
Preorbital not distinct and together with cheek covered with skin.
Interorbital space elevated a little convexly and flattened medianly.
Gillopening lateral extending forward about opposite posterior margin of preopercle.
Rakers in form of a low fringe of fine or minute filame2its.
Filaments long about equal to orbit.
No pseudobranchise.
Width of isthmus where gillmembranes join about equal to orbit.
Scales large cycloid and well exposed also of more or less even size.
Scales on breast small especially anteriorly.
Small scales along bases of dorsal and anal.
A pointed scaly ventral flap in axil of fin about f its length.
Head and fins naked except base of caudal.
Lateral line of short exposed single tubes and continuous even on base of caudal.
Origin of dorsal about opposite tip of depressed pectoral or a little before origin of ventral second simple ray highest next three graduated down after which they are all more or less of one size.
Anal beginning a trifle before base of last dorsal ray and second simple ray also longest.
Caudal forked lobes rather pointed.
Pectoral small and inserted low.
Ventral not quite reaching vent or about  of space to anal.
Color in alcohol dull olivaceousbrown paler below and on sides of head.
Fins pale brownish dorsal and caudal scarcely darker.
Each series of scales marked by a bar making about ten longitudinal dark lines or bands less in width than pupil of eye and dusky or most distinct above lateral line.
Iris olivaceous pupil slaty.
Peritoneum silvery.
Length 9 inches.
Type No.
2392 W. I.
A. P. Baram river Borneo.
1897.
Mr. Alfred C. Harrison Jr. and Dr. H. M. Hiller.
Also No.
13897 W. L A. P. Paratype.
Same data.
This species is close to Osteochilus kaho.janensis Bleeker which has been reported from the Baram river by Dr. Steindachner but differs apparently in the distinct longitudinal narrow brown stripes.
My examples also have no blue spot on the shouldergirdle though in alcohol the other color markings are fairly distinct.
Named for Ir.
Alfred C. Harrison Jr. of Philadelphia explorer of Borneo and Sumatra wdio collected the type.
33.
Garra borneensis Vaillant.
Head 5 depth 5 D. in 8 i  A. ii 5 i  scales 26 in lateral line to base of caudal and 2 more on latter width of head 1 in its length snout 2 eye 4 width of mouth 2f  interorbital space 2.
Color in alcohol deep brown above side paler and lower siuface pale brown.
A broad deep slatydusky band enclosing lateral line from eye to base of caudal and running out on caudal in lower caudal lobe.
A brownish streak at bases of upper rays of upper caudal lobe.
Dorsal dusky and with a median longitudinal pale line.
Pectoral and ventral brownish a little paler than caudal and latter with a broad diffuse pale tint transversely and medianly.
Anal pale brownish.
Iris slaty with a narrow inner pale circle adjoining pupil.
Length 3 inches.
Six examples.
The five other examples show the following Head 4 to 5 depth Ah to 5 scales 26 or 27 in lateral line to base of caudal usually 2 more on latter snout about 2 seldom a little more eye 3 to 4 total length 2 to 2 inches 54 to 73 mm..
34.
Lobooheilos hispidus Valenciennes.
Head 4f  depth 4 D. iv 8 i A. iv 5 i scales 34 in lateral line to base of caudal and 2 more on latter width of head 1 in its length depth of head at anterior margin of orbit 2 snout 2 eye 4 interorbital space 2 width of mouth 2  least depth of caudal peduncle If length of depressed dorsal 3 in head and trunk length of lower caudal lobe 2f  length of pectoral 4 length of ventral 3 length of anal 3.
Length 7f inches.
A single example which agrees with Bleeker's figure though there are more pores on the snout than he represents.
MYSTIN.. 35.
Labeobarbus douronensis  Valenciennes .7 Head 3 depth 3 D. iii I 8 i A. iii 5 i scales 19 in lateral hue to base of caudal and 2 more on latter 8 scales before dorsal width of head 2 in its length snout 3 eye 4 interorbital space 3  mouth 3 least depth of caudal peduncle 2 pectoral 1 ventral 1.
Length 6 inches.
A single example which agrees with Bleeker's figure. It will be seen to differ in the deeper body and higher back.
There are no dark dots on the upper surface of the body which is darker brown than the lower in my example.
36.
Cyclocbeiliclitliys megalops sp.
nov. Head 3 depth 3 D. iii I 8 A. iii 6 P. i 18 V. i 9 scales 32 in lateral line to base of caudal and 3 more on latter 12 scales before 35 Atlas Ichth. Ill 1863 PI.
7 108 fig.
2.
3' This name is proposed in place of Barbimc for the Barbels as Mystus Klein in Walbaum Pei.
Arted.
Pise III 1792 p. 586 is much older than Barbus.
Walbaum's name is considered typified by Cyprinus barbus Linnaeus.
3' SiAJA MiCROLEPis Bleeker .
One in the Academy from the Paris Museum.
Bleeker's figure does not indicate the striae on the head which are well displayed in this example.
The upper margin of the dorsal is also dusky.
Borneo.
 Atlas Ichth. Ill 1863 PI.
21 122 fig.
2.
484 July dorsal 7 scales obliquely back from origin of spinous dorsal to lateral line 5 scales obliquely forward from origin of spinous anal to lateral line width of head 2in its length  depth of head over middle of orbit 1 snout 2f eye 3 maxillary 3 interorbital space 3 length of depressed spinous dorsal a trifle more than head of anal 1 of pectoral 1J of ventral 1 least depth of caudal peduncle 2.
Body moderately elongate well compressed and greatest depth alout origin of dorsal so that back is a little elevated.
Upper profile nearly straight from tip of snout to origin of dorsal.
Caudal peduncle compressed its least depth about 1  in its length.
Fig.
6.
 C yclocJieil i chthyt megalops Fowlor.
Head compressed moderately long and upper profile horizontally oblique and straight.
Snout rather long and obtuse.
Eye large longer than deep a little anterior and high.
Pupil large vertical.
Mouth inferior and terminal uper jaw about even with tip of snout.
Lips rather thin and transversely plicate.
Tongue little free or distinct.
Mandible inferior not extending forward opposite tip of upper jaw.
Upper jaw protractile.
A small pointed maxillary barbel at corner of mouth.
Nostrils adjoining close in front of upper orbital rim.
Preorbital long about  of length of horizontal orbital diameter.
Interorbital space flattened a trifle concave medianly.
Gillopening lateral not extending quite as far forward as posterior margin of orbit.
Rakers 3  5 soft fleshy slender processes much shorter than filaments which are about equal to horizontal diameter of pupil.
Isthmus broad.
Scales large arranged in parallel horizontal series and cycloid.
A row of scales along base of dorsal and anal each forming an adnata sheath.
Base of caudal scaly.
A scaly pointed flap at inner base of pectoral.
Head and fins with these exceptions naked.
Skin of head with numerous parallel strise or plications transverse above and vertical laterally.
Lateral line of single tubes continuous a little decurved at first till horizontal.
Origin of dorsal about opposite that of ventral nearer base of caudal than tip of snout fourth ray spinelike with posterior edge becoming coarsely serrated above and when depressed first branched ray reaches well beyond others or about  of distance to base of caudal.
Anal inserted about midway between origin of dorsal and base of caudal third ray enlarged but with flexible tip and depressed fin reaching opposite base of caudal.
Caudal damaged.
Pectoral low small and reaching back for about first fifth of length of ventral.
Ventral with first branched ray longest and reaching anal.
Color in alcohol brown lower surface paler and with traces of silvery.
Each scale on back with a duskybrown spot regular in disposition so that longitudinal series are formed and several persisting even below lateral line but lowest much paler than those above.
Tjower surface of head pale like abdomen.
Fins same color dorsal more or less tinted with dusky and caudal and anal with brownish.
Iris pale brassybrown.
Length 3 inches caudal damaged.
Type No.
13928 W.I.
A. P. Borneo.
1898.
Dr. W. H. Furness.
One example the type.
It agrees with Bleeker's description of Capceta enoplos but his figure agrees with Sumatran examples of Cyclocheilichthys siaja which may be distinguished by the smaller eye always less than a third of the length of the head.
In Cyclocheilichthys megalops the eye is large about 3 in the head and the body is comppratively deeper.
Miya great w' eye.
37.
Puntius schwanenfeldii Bleeker.''
Head 3 depth 2 D. iii I 8.. i A. ii I 5 i scales 33 in lateral 3 AtTas Ichth. Ill 1863 p. 82 PI.
27 128 fig.
2.
 Species of this genus in the Academy from the Paris Museum are Puntius bulu Bleeker.
Fins all with brownish shades anteriorly.
One example.
line to base of caudal and 3 more on latter 8 scales between origin of dorsal and lateral line and 6 between latter and origin of anal  width of head 1 in its length snout 3 eye 3 mouth 3 interorbital space 2 least depth of caudal peduncle If pectoral 1 ventral l.
Dorsal with upper anterior lobe blackish and this color extending along upper margin of fin nearl to end of last ray.
One example 5 inches long.
Kapuas river.
Harrison and Hiller.
Bleeker's figure agrees though the Sumatran examples all show the caudal more forked and the lobes very long.
Head 3 to 3 and depth 21 to 24.
38.
Kampala maorolepidota Valenciennes.
Two large examples 10 inches long do not show any blotches on the side.
Baram.
Harrison and Hiller.
A small example collected by Dr. Furness has a large diffuse dark blotch below dorsal and another on caudal peduncle before base of caudal.
39.
Leptobarbus boevenii Bleeker.
One example.
40.
Rasbora dusonensis Bleeker.
Margin of caudal dusky or blackish.
Two examples larger 7inches.
41.
Rasbora leptosoma  Bleeker.
 Head 4 depth 4 D. ii 7 i A. iii 5 i scales pockets about 27 to base of caudal snout 3 in head eye 3 interorbital space 2.
A lateral band tinted with silvery rather faded but still most distinct on caudal peduncle.
Fins all plain colored the dorsal and caudal without darker margins.
Length 3 inches.
PuNTius BiNOTATus Valencieiines .
A small example.
Marked a little differently than the one figured by Prof. Vaillant in Nouv.
Arch.
Mus.
Hist.
Nat.
Paris V 3 1893 p. 79 PI.
1 figs.
llb.
PuNTiTJS ANCHisPORus VaiUant .
Scales 21 in lateral line to base of caudal and 2 more on latter.
Lateral line not continued on base of caudal.
Second transverse dusky band across belly just in front of ventral fins.
Third transverse band extends along bases of last dorsal rays and slopes obliciuely backward at first.
A small example originally identified as Barbus su7natrunu.s. 
Atlas Ichth. Ill 1863 PI.
35 136 fig.
3.
Wrongly identified as Cijclocheilichthys Siaja macropus which is evidently fig.
2.
 Rasborichthys helfrichii Bleeker.
Head 3 depth 5 D. ii 8 A. iii 20 i scales about 55
squamation injured  snout 3 in head  orbit 3  maxillary about 3  interorbital space 4  pectoral If ventral H. Length 2i inches.
Two in the Academy from the Paris Museum.
Thev show no trace of the adipose evelids like those indicated in Bleeker's figure Atlas Ichth. Ill 1S63 PI.
22 123 fig.
3.
CHELIN.E.
42.
Macroohiriclithys snyderi sp.
nov. Head 4f  depth at lower base of pectoral .5  at middle of trunk 5f  D. Ill 7 A.
Ill 25 i P. ii 14 V. ii 7 scales about 96 in lateral line to base of caudal and several more on latter  about 18 scales in a vertical series between origin of dorsal and lateral line 11 scales in a vertical series between lateral line and origin of anal about 150
scales before dorsal width of head 3 in its length depth of head opposite middle of orbit 1 mandible If length of depressed dorsal l least depth of caudal peduncle 3j length of depressed ventral 2 snout 3 in head from its own tip eye 4 mouth 2 interorbital space 4  length of pectoral 3f in body without caudal  base of anal 5.
Body strongly compressed upper profile evenly though slightly convex from neck to caudal and lower not so much so though sharply Fig.
7.
 Macrochirichthys snyderi Fowler.
trenchant.
Greatest depth of trunk near root of ventral Chest trenchant and produced below abdomen at lower root of ventral.
Least depth of caudal peduncle about equal to its length.
Head well compressed trenchant above and below and directed upward.
Upper profile nearly straight from tip of snout to nape and sloping obliquely down posteriorly.
Snout obliquely vertical.
Upper jaw forms a sliglit protuberance above.
Eye circular anterior and rather high in head.
Infraorbital here preorbital in position narrow and about f of pupil.
Mouth vertical gape reaching down till opposite lower margin of orbit.
Taps thin.
Mandible convex in profile anterior to upper jaw.
Jaws edentulous trenchant mandible with a large bluntish toothlike process at symphysis fitting in cavity of upper jaw.
Tongue not free from floor of mouth.
Nostrils above eye near its margin.
Interorlital space elevated and trenchant narrow.
Gillopening extending forward nearly opposite front rim of preorbital membrane forming a rather broad fold across isthmus.
Rakers very short about 25
hard denticles much shorter than filaments.
Filaments h of orbit.
Isthmus compressed narrowly and rounded.
Three branchiostegal rays.
Scales small cycloid in series directed obliquely forward on middle of side above and below lateral line.
Scales on back and on ventral region very much smaller and crowded.
Ventral region of body strongly compressed and forming a cutaneous keel.
Head naked except occiput scaly region beginning over middle of orbit and much smaller than on rest of body.
Fins naked except iDase of caudal which is scaly.
Lateral line of rather large simple tubes continuous sloping down till over ventral then more or less straight to base of caudal.
Dorsal fin small posterior and its origin about last if in space between front end of mandible and base of caudal or a trifle posterior to origin of anal.
Anal with anterior rays elevated and base elongate last ray reaching nearly half way to base of caudal.
Caudal damaged.
Pectoral inferior upper rays enlarged and first developed ray longest and reaching nearly to origin of ventral other rays graduated down.
Origin of ventral about opposite posterior margin of opercle.
Ventral about midway in its insertion between anterior margin of eye and base of caudal and reaching about half way to origin of anal.
Color in alcohol with more or less silvery everywhere and back pale brownish.
Snout dusky.
Iris brassy.
A dusky blotch at base of caudal.
An interorbital band of deeper brown than body color with two lines of deeper color.
Also a similar postocular band extending down till close to posterior rim of orbit where it ends abruptly.
Fins pale brownishwhite dorsal and caudal a shade darker than others.
Pectoral axil dusky.
Length 6H inches.
Type No.
13931 W. I.
A. P. Borneo.
1898.
Dr. W. H. Furncss.
Only the type is known to me.
This species is closely related to Macrochirichthys macrochir Valenciennes but differs at once in the postocular transverse dark cranial bands.
Macrochirichthys uranoscopus Bleeker has been united with M. macrochir and it also lacks these bands.
Named for my friend Prof. John 0.
Snyder of tlie Iceland Stanford Junior University well known as a writer on Japanese fishes.
MONOPTERID.
43.
Monopterus albus Zuiew.
Lunong of the Dyaks.
Six examples from Marudi a swamp at the mouth of the Baram other localities in the Barain district and the Kapuas river.
Those from the latter place collected by Harrison and Hiller.
Largest specimen 19 inches long.
OLUPEID.
44.
Sardinella bracliysoma Bleeker. Head 3 depth 2 D. iv 13 i A. iii 16 i scales about 40 in a lateral series to base of caudal and about 4 more on latter mandible 2 in head pectoral 1 ventral 2 least depth of caudal peduncle 2f  snout 4 in head from its own tip eye 4 maxillary 2 interorbital space 42.
Adipose eyelid well developed.
Abdominal serratures 29.
Each scale on back with a brown spot.
Vertical striae on cheek.
One example 8 inches long.
NOTOPTERIDuE.
45Notopterus borneensis Bleeker.
Head 4yL depth 3f  D. ii 7 A. about 122. liength 17 inches.
One example.
Bleeker gives a good figure of this species but my example differs in having the spots more numerous smaller extending the whole length of the anal and also above the lateral line on the end of the trunk.
The spots on the trunk are also a little larger than those on the anal.
The upper profile of the head is a little more concave and the end of the maxillary a little more posterior.
MASTACEMBELID.
46.
Mastaoembelus vmioolor Valenciennes.
Head without rostral appendage 5f  depth 7f  D. XXXIII 70
 A.
Ill 65
 P. 24 scales about 340 in a lateral series below lateral line to base of caudal width of head 4 in its length without rostral appendage depth of head 2f snout 3 eye 9 mouth 44 maxillary 3f  pectoral 3 caudal 2f  interorbital space Ih in eye eye 3 in snout.
Body elongate deep compressed and tail rather broad posteriorly.
Greatest depth at vent.
Anterior part of body more tapering than posterior part.
Head long triangular rather slender attenuated and greatly compressed.
Snout long attenuated convex above and its tip while projecting beyond tip of mandible extended into a long pointed fleshy rostral flap perfectly smooth below and equal to eye in length.
Eye ''Sardinella brachysoma Fowler Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. XTI 2 1904 p. 501  Sardinella hypelosoma Bleeker.
Kitlas Ichth. VI 186972 PI.
17 275 fig.
1. small anterior or its anterior margin nearly at first third in total length of head a little longer than deep and high.
A small sharp spine on preorbital below anterior rim of orbit and directed anteriorly.
Maxillary reaching below nostril but not front of orbit.
louth small narrow inferior and mandible included.
Lips rather thin.
Teeth small in rather broad bands which are distinct though approximated in front of each jaw conic and directed a little backward.
Buccal folds broad.
No teeth on roof of mouth or on tongue.
Tongue slender or elongate and not evidently free.
Nostrils lateral directly in front of eye and in form of a rather long horizontal slit.
Intcrorbital space narrow and convex.
Gillopening inferior forming a narrow triangle on chest below and extending forward for about last  of head.
Rakers absent.
Filaments about equal to vertical diameter of orbit.
No pseudobranchia.
Isthmus rather short and narrowly compressed.
Scales small elongate crowded in appearance or close together adherent and in a regular oblique series.
Lateral line continuous extending at first superiorly and then median after anal spines to caudal.
Tubes simple and rather pronounced.
Smaller scales crowded along bases of vertical fins and pectorals.
Head except snout branehiostegal region and mandible covered with small scales.
Vertical fins continuous.
Spinous dorsal longer than soft dorsal though at first low where it originates over middle of pectoral then each spine increasing gradually in height to last which is highest.
Soft dorsal and anal of about equal height latter originating a little nearer tip of caudal than gillopening.
Caudal small rounded of about 16
rays and last rays of soft dorsal and anal extending on it basaily for at least half its length.
Pectoral broad short rounded and a little low in its insertion.
Second anal spine much largest similar to last dorsal spine through placed a little anterior to its base.
Yent close in front of spinous anal or a little nearer base of caudal than orbit.
Color in alcohol deep woodbrown lower surface paler or inclining to very pale or dirtybrown especially on abdomen thorax and under surface of head.
Dorsals and anals with more or less dark color medianly and becoming more or less blackish submarginally margins of these fins rather conspicuously creamywhitish .
Caudal and pectoral creamy or pale brownish each with two rather variable cross blotches of deep or blackishbrown joined somewhat medianly by a bar of same color.
Snout brownish and rostral appendage deep brown.
Iris slaty.
Iength lOj inches.
One example.
This agrees somewhat with eight examples I recorded from Sumatra taken at Batu Sangkar in Padangsche Bovenland and collected by Harrison and Hiller.
The smallest of these differs in the color markings which are very pronounced.
The vertical fins also have blackish bases with distinct margins and their edges with whitish blotches.
The spots on the sides are distinct and the lower surface of the body is decidedly paler.
The largest Sumatran example also shows the following Head without rostral appendage 5 depth 8 D. XXXVI 80
 A. II 72
 P. 22 scales about 285 in a lateral series to base of caudal  width of head 3f in its length  depth of head 2f  snout 3 eye 8 mouth 4f pectoral 2f caudal 3 interorbital space 1 in eye eye 2 in snout.
My figure also shows the caudal confluent almost entirely with the rayed dorsal and anal.
This is in entire agreement with my largest Sumatran example which it was supposed to represent.
However the others especially the smaller ones have it distinct and with the ends of the caudal rays free.
They also show the margins of these fins whitish.
Surely Day's figure and account of Mastacemhelus urdcolor represents a distinct species.
Fig.
8.
 Mastacemhelus vaillanti Fowler.
47.
Mastacemhelus vaillanti sp.
nov. Head without rostral appendage 7 depth 9 D. XXVIII.
58
 A.
Ill 65
 caudal 14
 P. 22 scales aboirt 164 in a lateral series below lateral line to caudal width of head 4 in its length without rostral appendage depth of head 2f  snout 3 eye 8 mouth 5J maxillary 4 pectoral 3 caudal about 2 interorbital space about If in eye eye 2 in snout.
Body long strongly compressed deep especially posterior half or tail and anterior half tapering more narrowly forward to tip of snout.
Greatest depth at vent.
Caudal peduncle not evident its width would be about 6 in head without rostral appendage.
Head small long well attenuated and greatly compressed.
Profiles Uourn.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. XII 2 1904 p. 501 PI.
8 upper figure.
Fishes of India II 1876 p. 3.39 PI.
72 fig.
3.
32 similar and nearly straight.
Snout long pointed and its tip while extended beyond tip of mandible produced into a trifid fleshy rostral flap which is perfectly smooth below and about equal to horizontal orbital diameter.
Eye small high anterior or much nearer tip of rostral appendage than posterior edge of opercle and a little longer than deep.
A small sharp spine directed backward in front of eye below on preorbital region.
Maxillary reaching till opposite anterior margin of posterior nostril.
Mouth small narrow inferior and mandible narrow.
Lips rather thin.
Teeth rather large conic directed somewhat backward and in rather broad approximated bands in jaws.
No teeth on roof of mouth or on tongue.
Buccal folds Inroad.
Tongue little free and rather narrow.
Anterior nostril in each short lateral tip or fleshy tube of rostral appendage.
Posterior nostril an elongate slit directly in front of eye and about equal to diameter of pupil.
Interorbital space narrow and convex.
Gillopening inferior forming a narrow triangle on chest below and extending forward for about last of entire length of head.
Rakers absent.
Filaments short about equal to vertical diameter of pupil.
No pseud obranchiae.
Isthmus short and narrowly compressed.
Scales close together elongate with more or less scalloped edges in places in obliciue crossing series and adherent.
Present on most all of body except pectoral margins of other fins snout jaws rostral appendage and branchiostegal region.
Scales at base of pectoral and on other fins reduced in size.
Lateral line rather high continuous only becoming median on posterior portion of tail or trunk and of simple tubes.
Vertical fins entirely continuous.
Spinous dorsal a little longer than rayed dorsal though at first low at its origin which is a little behind tip of pectoral and then increasing gradually in height a short distance when spines become more or less subequal and last spine highest.
Soft dorsal inserted at a point about last f in total length of body.
Rayed anal similar in height and both fins joined to pointed caudal so that it ends in a point with median rays longest.
Origin of rayed anal well in advance of that of soft dorsal or at a point about .jiiid way between tip of pectoral and base of caudal.
Anal spines strong second much larger.
Pectoral small rounded rather broad low and median rays longest.
Vent close in front of spinous anal.
Color in alcohol with groundcolor more or less uniform brownish a trifle paler or soiled brownish on lower surface of head and abdomen.
Body most everywhere beautifully variegated with darker mottlings wliich form pale spots or blotches of variable size and pattern.
On tail they form posteriorly into several broad indistinctly defined transverse bars.
Rayed dorsal anal and caudal with whitish margins adjoining which is a blackish submarginal shade becoming diffuse toward middle of fins.
Bases of these fins pale variegated with fine broAvnish mottlings on former and large whitish obliquely inclined forward blotches on anal.
Caudal more or less finely barred less distinctly so basally.
Pectoral with many fine wavy transverse bars.
A deep brown streak along side of snout to eye and continued behind latter to edge of preopercle.
A number of variable brownish bars on side and under surface of head.
Iris slaty.
TiCngth 6 inches.
Type No.
14150 W. I.
A. P. Borneo.
1898.
Dr. W. H. Furness.
One example.
This species is evidently closely related to Mastacembelus guentheri Day which has been recorded from Borneo by Prof.
Vaillant.
 The Indian fish appears to differ somewhat in coloration according to Day's account especially as there is no black bar at the base of the caudal.
His figure fails to indicate this.
Margins of the vertical fins of Mastacembelus vaillanti well edged with white the color pattern different presenting a beautiful blotched or spotted appearance and the pectorals finely barred.
Named for Prof. Leon Vaillant.
MASTACOBMBELIDiE.
48 Tylosurus leiuroides Bleeker.
Depth in trunk without head about 11 D. iii 16 A. iir 22 eye 3f in postocular region of head interorbital space 2h least depth of caudal peduncle 3.
One example 12 inches jaws and caudal damaged.
HEMIRAMPHID.
HEMIRAMPHIN.E.
Mandible produced far beyond upper jaw in a long slender beak or point.
LABIDORHAMPHUS subgen.
nov.
Type Hemirhamphus amblyiirus Bleeker.
Upper jaw twice as long as broad.
laJif pincers pdxyoj beak.
'' Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond. 1865 p. 37.
In paddvfields and the Trichoor backwater Cochin on the Malabar or western coast of India.
 Nouv.
Arch.
Mus.
Paris V .3 1893 p. 106.
KinaBalou.
M. Whitehead   Fishes of India II 1876 PI.
73 fig.
2.
49.
Zenarchopterus amblyurus Bleeker.
One example.
Subgenus ZENARCHOPTERUS Gill.
Upper jaw about equal in length and in iltll.
50.
Zenarchopterus buffonis Valenciennes.
Head with beak 2 j  from tip of upper jaw 4 depth 6 D. i 12 A. II 8 about 37 scales in a lateral series to base of caudal width of upper jaw about ecpial to its length.
Length 6 inches.
EXOCCETID.
51.
FarexocoetllS mento Valenciennes.
Head 3f  depth 4f  D. i 10 A. i 10 scales 35 in a lateral series to base of caudal snout 3i in head from tip of upper jaw eye 2f  interorbital space 3.
Length 5 inches.
A single example.
It agrees with Bleeker's figure' except that there is a brown band from along base of upper caudal lobe down across middle of lower lobe toward its distal portion Avhich is also more or less brownish.
The ventrals are almost all whitish without tlie large dark blotch Bleeker shows though the anal is dusk basally.
The black on the pectoral and ventral is also more deep than Bleeker indicates.
MUGILID.
52.
Mugil belanak Bleeker.
Head 31 depth 3f  D. IVI 8 A.
Ill 9 P. ii 14 V. I 5 scales 35 in a lateral series to base of caudal about 10 scales in an oblique series from origin of S'inous dorsal to middle of belly 20
pockets scales before spinous dorsal width of head li in its length depth of head If snout 3 eye 4 maxillary 4 interorbital space 2 width of mouth 3  mandible 4  first dorsal spine H  first dorsal ray lJ third anal spine 3.j first anal ray 1  least deptli of caudal peduncle 2 pectoral 1 ventral U.
Body rather fusiform well compressed and greatest depth about middle of depressed spinous dorsal.
Profiles rather evenly convex to greatest depth and similar.
Caudal peduncle compressed and about as long as broad.
Head robust a little constricted below anrl profiles similarly convex.
Snout broad a little convex above and upper jaw a little produced.
Eye circular its posterior margin a little anterior in middle of length of K'itlas Ichth. VI 1S69 PI.
.5   fig.
6.
1905.
495 head and adipose eyelids well developed.
louth a little inferior and corner falling about opposite posterior nostril.
Mandibular angle broad and obtuse symphysis forming a process fitting a depression in front of upper jaw.
Teeth very minute uniserial in upper jaw and scarcely evident or absent on mandible.
liips rather fleshy.
Roof of mouth and tongue edentulous.
Tongue fleshy not free and forming a median longitudinal trenchant keel.
Maxillary exposed and reaching about opposite front rim of orbit.
Lower edge of preorbital denticulate.
Anterior nostril with a small cutaneous rim near edge of snout and space between it and posterior much greater than space between latter and front of eye.
Posterior nostril vertical and slitlike.
Interorbital space broad flattened or but slightly convex.
Fig.
9.
 Mugil helanak Bleeker.
Gillopening extending forward about opposite middle of orbit.
Rakers about 62 slender fine and equal to about f of longest filaments.
Filaments numerous longest but little less than orbital diameter.
Pseudobranchise about f of orbital diameter.
Isthmus narrow with a depression.
Stomach gizzardlike muscular and rather large.
Intestine rather long and convoluted.
Peritoneum black.
Vent close to origin of anal fin.
Scales rather large and arranged in more or less even longitudinal series.
Head scaly.
Scales according to pockets extending down to edge of snout small.
A slender pointed scaly flap along base of spinous dorsal about equal in length to f length of first spine.
Scaly flap in axil of pectoral possibly damaged about f length of fin.
entral with a similar scaly flap which is about half length of fin and a broad one between base of each which is a little over half of ventral possibly damaged.
Greater portions of rayed dorsal anal and caudal densely scaled those basally lai'ger.
Spinous dorsal inserted a little nearer tip of snout than base of caudal first spine longest and fourth shortest.
Soft dorsal inserted nearer base of caudal than origin of spinous fin and first ray longest.
Anal similar to soft dorsal spines slender graduated to third which is longest second but little shorter and first hardly j length of second.
Origin of rayed anal well in advance of that of rayed dorsal.
Caudal emarginate lobes distinct and pointed.
Pectoral small not quite reaching opposite origin of spinous dorsal and its origin a little above middle of vertical orbital diameter.
Ventral inserted about opposite middle of pectoral and its spine about  in length of fin.
Color in alcohol pale brownish with more or less silvery reflections.
Back and upper surface darker brownish.
Fins all pale lrownish.
Iris brassy.
Length 4 inches caudal damaged.
One example.
Mugil helanak Bleeker is the first name available for the present species.
Bontah RusselP is not available but it forms the basis of Mugil bontah Bleeker which is its first introduction in a binomial sense.
Later Bleeker identified other specimens under the same name which appear to be different and which have been referred to M. helanak by Dr. Giinther.
However Russell's figure of Bontah had been named by Swainson as Mugil gymnocephahis This according to Day would lead to its identification with Mugil our Forskal.
The discrepancies between my account and that by Day are probably due to age.
53.
Liza oligolepis Bleeker.
Head 3 depth 2f  D. IVI 8 A. IH 9 i P. ii 13 V. I 5 scales 24 in a lateral series to base of caudal about 11 scales in an oblique series from origin of spinous dorsal to middle of belly 20
pockets 51 Nat.
Tijds.
Ned.
Ind. XIII 1857 p. 337.
Batavia in mari.
 Fishes of Coromandel II 1803 p. 64 PL 180.
Vizagapatam.
53 Verh.
Bat.
Gemot.
Nalez.
Ich.
Beng.
Hind.
 XXV 1853 p. 48.
Based on RusseU.
Voi.
Tijds.
Ned.
Ind. XIII 1857 p. 336.
Batavia in mari.
L. c XVI 185859 p. 278.
Act.
Soc.
Sci.
Ind.
Need.
Diert.
Bijd.
Visch.
Borneo VTII 1860 p. 49.
Not consulted.
 Lardners Cabinet Cyclopaedia Nat.
Hist. II 1839 p. 234. 
Fishes of India II 1876 p. 351 PI.
74 fig.
5.
Bombay.
1905.
497 mostly scales before spinous dorsal width of head If in its length depth of head 1 mandible 2 first dorsal spine 1 first dorsal ray If third anal spine 2 first anal ray 14 lower caudal lobe 1 least depth of caudal peduncle 2 pectoral 1 ventral 1 snout Sf in head measured from tip of upper jaw  eye 3f  maxillar' 4  width of mouth 3  interorbital space 2.
Body deep compressed and greatest depth about origin of spinous dorsal.
Lower profile a little more convex than upper.
Caudal peduncle compressed deep and its length about half its depth.
Head robust a little large well constricted below and convex above.
Fig.
10.
 Liza oUgolepis Bleeker.
IvOwer profile a little more convex and inclined than upper which is a trifle concave just in front of eye above.
Snout broad convex above and upper jaw not produced.
Eye circular close to upper profile without adipose eyelids and its posterior margin a trifle posterior in length of head.
iIouth broad gape small reaching opposite anterior nostril.
Mandibular angle broad and obtuse symphysis forming a yjrocess fitting in a depression in front of upper jaw.
Lips rather fleshy though thin.
Teeth very minute and apparently only evident in a series along margin of upper jaw.
A small patch of minute teeth on each palatine.
Tongue fleshy not free from floor of mouth.
Lower preorbital margin serrate.
Anterior nostril with a slight cutaneous rim and placed about midway in snout in profile view.
Posterior nostril larger high somewhat slitlike and about opposite upper anterior orbital margin.
Interorital space broad and flattened or but slightly convex.
Gillopening extending forward till nearly opposite first f of orbit.
Rakers 40
 slender fine rather short or about half length of filaments.
Filaments long about  of orbital diameter.
Pseudobranchise about y of orbit.
Isthmus narrow with a median groove.
Stomach gizzardlike muscular about equal to orbit in size.
Intestine rather long and convoluted.
Peritoneum black.
Vent close in front of insertion of anal fin.
Scales large with finely ciliated edges and in more or less even longitudinal series.
Head scaly.
Opercles at present naked.
Scales on snout small.
A pointed scaly flap at base of spinous dorsal equals about  length of first spine.
A similar scaly flap in axil of pectoral equal to about  length of fin.
Ventral also with a similar flap equal to about f length of fin and a broad one between bases of fins which is damaged.
Greater portions of soft dorsal anal and caudal covered with minute scales those about bases of fins larger.
Spinous dorsal inserted much nearer base of caudal than tip of snout first spine enlarged and longest and others graduated down.
Soft dorsal inserted well behind origin of anal or much nearer base of caudal than origin of spinous dorsal and first ray highest.
Anal similar first spine short third longest and second but little shorter than third.
First anal ray longest.
Caudal small broad and a little emarginate.
Pectoral small and its insertion a little above middle in vertical orbital diameter.
Ventral inserted a little before middle of deressed pectoral and spine about equal to f length of fin.
Color in alcohol brownish and everywhere more or less silvery.
Back and upper surface brownish.
Fins all pale brownish dorsals and caudal a trifle darker.
Eye brassywhite.
Length about 3 inches.
Six examples the one descriled above largest.
Day's figure shows a higher spine to second dorsal than that found on any of my examples.
SCOMBRID.
54.
Scomberomorus guttatus Schneider.
Differs but little from Sumatran examples.
Teeth about 31 in upper jaw and about 34
in lower.
Color faded so that spots are diffuse and indistinct.
Caudal whitish.
One example Uf inches. 
Fishes of India II 1876 p. 358 PI.
76 fig.
2.
Sunderbunds near Calcutta.
TRICHIURID.
55.
TrioMuras savala Cuvier.
Head 8 depth 17f  D. about 137 A. I XCVI
 P. i 10 snout a little less than 3 in head from its own tip  tip of snout to end of maxillary 2 orbit 8 interorbital space 7.
Tip of mandible ending in a fleshy point and laterally compressed.
Fangs 3 alternate and barbed in front of upper jaw.
A single enlarged barbed fang in front of mandible.
Tongue elongate pointed and free.
Rakers consist of several small pointed rudiments at angle of first branchial arch.
Anal spine pointed.
Color in arrack silvery edge of back above brownish.
Fins pale margin of dorsal brownish and edge of pectoral dusky.
Tail dusk3brown.
Edge of preorbital brownish.
Iris dull brassy.
Length 26 inches.
CARANGID.
56.
Scomberoides toloo Cuvier.
One example 6 inches long.
57.
Megalaspis cordyla Linnseus.
Three examples.
58.
Alepes scitula Fowler.
Three examples agreeing with the type except paler in color.
Largest 4inches long.
59.
Citula atropos Schneider . A single small example aljout 2 inches long.
STROMATEID.
60.
Pampus cinereus Bloch.
Head 3  depth 1 D. i VHI 5 34 A. VI 5 33 snout 3 in head  eye 3  width of mouth 3 least depth of caudal peduncle 2f  pectoral 2 in head and trunk.
Color in alcohol with silvery more or less everjwhere.
Back pale brown.
Marginal portions of dorsals and caudal only slightly dusky.
Pectoral whitish like caudal.
Anal almost entirely silverywhite.
Iris brassy.
One example 5 inches long.
Day's figure of Stromateus cinereus' shows the anal lobe much longer and the snout not so produced as in my example.
Citula atropos Fowler Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. XII 2 1904 p. 513 H. 14 lower figure to left is the voung of Citula armata ForskaD.
 Fishes of India II 1876'Pl.
53 fig.
3.
LEIOGNATHID.
61.
Leiognathus edentulus Bloch.
One example.
CHANDID. 62.
Ambassis wolffii Bleeker.
One example.
It agrees with Bleeker's figm'e except that the membranes of spinous dorsal and ventral fins are more dusky or blackish.
63.
Ambassis ambassis Lacpfede.
Head 2 depth 2 D. i YII I 10 A.
Ill 9 i scales about 2S in lateral line to base of caudal 4 scales obliquely back from origin of spinous dorsal to lateral line about 8 scales obliquely up from origin of spinous anal to lateral line about 12 scales before dorsal snout 4 in head from tip of upper jaw eye 3 maxillary 2  interorbital space 4.
Rakers slender a little longer than filaments or about equal to diameter of pupil and 817 in number.
Color faded a plain pale or nearly uniform brownish all fins whitish.
One example 4 inches long.
Chanda is another of Hamilton's composite genera.
Its elimination is as follows  setifer Gerres Cuvier 1829. ruconius Leiognathus Laoepede 1803. nalua Ambassis Ciivier 1828. nnma HamiUoma Swainson 1839. phulaHamiUonia Swainson 1839. bogoda Hamiltonia Swainson 1839. bacxdisHannltonia Swainson 1839. rangaHamUtonia Swainson 18.39. lalaPseudambassis Bleeker 1870.
The first species affected is ruconius which cannot belong to my own genus Deveximentum if the original account and figure of Hamilton is correct.
The latter certainly represents a Leiognathus and the description is equally applicable.
The second case is nalua which is an Ambassis.
The third case is setifer which is a Gerres.
Haviiltonia was next proposed for orata which is based on Hamilton's figure of noma by .Swainson who follow
with another name lata for the same figure
The remaining species appear to belong to this genus with the exception of lala for which Bleeker propcsed Pseudambassis in 1874.
As this is the last name used generically Chanda must supersede it with lala as the tpe.
Provisionally the genera may be distinguished by the following key a.
 Preorbital entire D. long 14 to 17 radii A. long 16 to 18 radii scales small or minute Hamiltonia.
aa  Preorbital denticulate.
.
 Strong teeth in jaws at least some of them enlarged and almost caninelike.
c.  D. radii 12 to 14 A. radii 14 to 17 strong external series of premaxillary teeth Chanda.
cc.
 D. radii 10 or 11 A. radii 9 to 11 outer series of teeth in part caninelike Parambassis.
.
bb.
 Teeth small equal or subequal D. and A. radii 8 to 11  scales large A jyibassis.
Parambassis macrolepis Bleeker .
One example in the Academy from the Paris Museum.
The black on the edge of the soft dorsal is very distinct.
'''Atlas Ichth. VIII 187677 PI.
47 32.5 fig.
2.
64.
Ambassis gymnooephalus Lacepfede.
Head 2 depth 2f  D. i VII I 9 A.
Ill 9 scales 27 in a lateral series to base of caudal 14 tubes in fii'st part of lateral line and 14 in lower or caudal portion 4 scales between origin of spinous dorsal and lateral line obliquely back 8 scales obliquely forward from origin of spinous anal to lateral line  about 13 scales before spinous dorsal  snout 4 in head from tip of upper jaw eye 3 maxillary 2 interorbital space 3.
Rakers small thin longer than filaments and numerous.
Color faded plain or uniform brownish fins whitish.
Length 2h inches.
Two examples.
SCINID.' 65.
Sciaena novaehoUandise Steindachner.
Head 3  depth 3  D. X 26 i  A. II 6 i  scales 45 in lateral line'to base of caudal snout 3f in head eye 5 end of maxillary to tip of snout 2 interorbital space 3f  pectoral 1 ventral l least depth of caudal peduncle 4.
One example 4 inches agreeing with Bleeker's figure. POLYNEMIDiB.
TRICHIDIONTIN..
Rayed dorsal and anal of equal size.
Preopercle serrated.
66.
Trichidion indicus Shaw.
Head 3i depth 4f D. VIIII 13 A.
Ill 12 P. ii 11 pectoral filaments 5 V. I 5 scales 70 in lateral line to base of caudal about 36
scales squamation damaged before spinous dorsal 7 scales between origin of spinous dorsal and lateral line 8 scales between origin of soft dorsal and lateral line 10 scales between origin of anal and lateral line width of head 1 in its length depth of head If snout 4f eye 8 maxillary 22V mandible 2 width of mouth 2f  interorbital space 4 first dorsal spine 1 first dorsal ray If first anal ray 2 third anal spine 3y upper caudal lobe a little less than head least depth of caudal peduncle 3 pectoral 1 ventral about 2.
Uppermost pectoral filament reaching origin of anal.
Iength 21 inches.
One example from the mouth of the Baram.
Scicena macroptera Fowler.
Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Set.
Phila.. XII 2 1904 p. 530 is an Umhriiia.
Kitlas Ichth. IX 1877 PI.
4 3S7 fig.
2.
 Tills is opposed to the Poltnemix.
'e or those species witli the anal basis about twice the length of the second dorsal and an entire preopercle.
Typified by Polynemus Linnseus.
Trichidion Klein in Walbaum Pet.
Arted.
Pise III 1792 p. 585 is the earliest reference for that genus thus having priority over Polydactylus Lacep6de.
502 July 67.
Tricliidioii hilleri sp.
nov. Head 3 depth 4 D. VIIiv 16 A. in 12 P. ii 15 with 6 filaments below V. i 5 scales about 68 in lateral line to base of caudal and 11 more on caudal basally 6 scales between middle of base of spinous dorsal and lateral line  7 scales between middle of base of soft dorsal and lateral line 9 scales obliquely up and back to lateral line width of head If in its length  depth of head If snout 4 eye 9 maxillary 2 interorbital space 3 second dorsal spine 1 first developed dorsal ray about If first developed anal ray If ventral 1 least depth of caudal peduncle 2f second simple pectoral ray 2in head and trunk length of upper caudal lobe about 2f.
Fig.
11.
 Trichidion hilleri Fowler.
Body long compressed greatest depth about middle of depressed ventral or spinous dorsal and upper profile a little more convex than lower.
Caidal peduncle a little long and its least depth a trifle more than half its length.
Head obtuse compressed rather broad and profiles similar with upper a little more convex especially posteriorly.
Snout broad blunt convex and well protruded.
Eye small circular a little low and lateral in position and also placed a trifle behind first fourth of length of head.
Adipose tissue well developed and extending over eye.
Mouth inferior large gape curved in profile and upper jaw extending forward beyond symphysis of mandible.
Maxillary expanded distally till about  more than diameter of orbit.
Teeth in jaws minute asperities in rather broad bandHke patches which are not confluent anteriorly.
Similar patches on palatines.
Vomer edentulous.
Tongue large thick rounded and a little free in front but without asperities.
Nostrils moderately large rounded similar together lateral and posterior on snout and directly in front of eye.
Interorbital space broad convex and posteriorly to occipital region becoming more convex.
Gillopening extending forward till below posterior portion of orbit.
Gillrakers small slender somewhat clavate 13  18 and longest a little longer than longest filaments and a trifle more than distal expanded maxillary extremity.
Pseud obranchiaj small.
Isthnuis broad and convex.
Scales rather small mostly finely ctenoid and small ones extending over most of fins and head.
On spinous dorsal pectoral and ventral they are present only on basal regions and other fins almost completely covered.
Those on head small about and on snout.
Head scaly with exception of lips and branchial flaps.
Axil of pectoral with a fleshy flap and a thin pointed scale above.
Axil of ventral with a grooved scaly flap.
Lateral line continuous of simple tubes a little high at first and then running down along middle of side of caudal peduncle and well out on caudal.
Spinous dorsal inserted about midway between tip of snout and middle of base of soft dorsal or a trifle behind origin of ventral spines slender and second spine a little longest.
Soft dorsal inserted a little nearer base of caudal than eye and first branclied ray highest.
Anal similar to soft dorsal inserted behind origin of same fin and a little nearer that of pectoral than base of caudal and first branched ray highest.
Caudal large forked and lobes pointed.
Pectoral long second simple ray longest and reaching origin of anal.
Pectoral filaments very long first and third longest and latter longer than entire length of fish.
Iowest and shortest pectoral filament about equal to head without snout.
Ventral with first ray longest and reaching about f of space to anal.
Insertion of ventral a little behind origin of pectoral.
Vent close before tip of depressed ventral.
Color in alcohol mostly very pale brownishwhite or pale brownih.
Back darker brown with minute pale dusky dots on side of head and above pectoral.
Dorsals and caudal sprinkled with similar pale dusky or gray dots and also slightly darker than other fins.
Upper margins of dorsals slightly darker.
Other fins like abdomen except pectoral which is deep livid black on outer .
Pectoral filaments pale like fin at base soon becoming gradually browner till colored like back.
Sid and lower surface of head and snout whitish like abdomen.
Iris pale slaty.
Length 8 inches.
Type No.
2400 W. I.
A. P. Baram river Borneo.
1897.
Alfred C. Harrison Jr. and Dr. H. M. Hiller.
One example.
This species may be distinguished principally by the black outer f of the pectoral fin.
Named for Dr. H. 1I.
Hiller explorer of Borneo and Sumatra with Mr. Alfred C. Harrison Jr. OOIID.
Body deep and elevated.
Premaxillaries protractile and spines extending back to occiput.
Teeth in jaws villiform and none on roof of mouth or on tongue.
jNIaxillary slipping below lower edge of preorbital for most of its length.
Preorbital narrow.
Lower pharyngeal bones separate.
Branchiostegals 6.
Pseud obranchia
present.
Appendices pylorices few.
Airvessel simple.
Dorsal fins continuous spines XII and stout.
Anal spines similar HI.
Caudal rounded.
Rivers and estuaries of India and the East Indies.
These fishes approach the Gcrridw in the spines of the remaxillary but differ at once in the numerous stout dorsal spines.
Coins Hamilton   Datriioides Bleeker is the typical form.
68.
Coius quadrifasciatus Sevastianoff.
Four examples largest 3f inches in length.
OSPHRONEMID.
69.
Betta pugnax Cantor.
One example from the Baram.
Harrison and Hiller.
Bleeker's Betta a na 6a toiVes'' appears to differ a little from 5. jmgnax according to the accounts of Valenciennes and Cantor.
Panchax picThis genus is also one of Hamilton's composite groups.
Its elimination is as followsvnctiLaics Cuvier 1S2S.
datnia  Chrysophrifi Valenciennes 1830. catvsLutianus Bloch 1797. tricittatus  Therapon Cuvier 1829. gudgutia  Pomadasis Lacpede 1S03.
polota Datnioides Bleeker 1857. nnndus  Nandus Valenciennes 1831. cobojiiis  Anabas Cuvier 1829. chafircus  To.rotes Cuvier 1817.
It is tlius evident that Datnioides Bleeker is the last name proposed and therefore gives precedence to Coins.
Datnioides first occurs in Nat.
Tijds.
Ned.
Ind. Ill 1853 p. 440.
Type Datnioides quadrifasciatus Bleeker  Coius polota Hamilton.
Nat.
Tijd.i.
Ned.
Ind. I 1850 1851 p. 269.
Bandjermassing in fluviis.
Mr. J.
Wolff.
turn Valenciennes is said to have 20 anal rays.
Cantor's figure of Macropodus pugnax differs in showing a pale margined anal and uniform caudal or without black undulating lines.
Bleeker's figure' does not indicate any markings on the head or trunk and the rays are spotted.
70.
Osphronemus goramy Lacpfede.
One example from the Kapuas.
Harrison and Hiller.
It has depth of body If in its length.
Total length of fish 7f inches.
ANABANTIDJE.
71.
Anabas scandens Daldorff.
Three examples.
OPHICEPHALID.
72.
OpMcephalus baramensis Steindachner.
Head 3. depth 6 D. 36 A.
22 P. i 13 i V. i 5 53 scales in lateral line to base of caudal and 4 more on latter about 15 osseous scales before dorsal 5 scales between origin of dorsal and lateral line and 8 between latter and origin of ventral width of head If in its length depth of head 2 mandible 2 thirtieth dorsal ray 2 seventeenth anal ray 2  pectoral If  ventral 2y''iy  caudal If least depth of caudal peduncle 3f  snout 4 from tip of upper jaw eye 7 mouth 2 maxillary 2J interorbital space 3.
Body elongate rather slender and greatest depth about middle of depressed ventral.
Tail long and well compressed.
Head rather large elongate broad much depressed and sides rounded presenting a somewhat swollen appearance.
Snout short broad and rather acutely rounded when viewed from above.
Eye rather small circular superior and placed a little before first third in length of head.
Pupil circular and large.
Mouth large broad oblique and maxillary reaching well lehind posterior margin of orbit.
Posterior end of maxillary dilated till about equal to diameter of orbit and received in a deep infraorbital groove.
Mandible large flattened below and weW protruding eyond snout.
Teeth in jaws minute sharp pointed numerous and in broad bands which are continuous in front.
Along sides of mandible a series of a few enlarged or erect caninelike teeth.
Vomerine teeth minute sharp pointed uniserial and connecting with those on palatines.
Palatine teeth large depressible irregular in size and position and rather numerous.
Tongue a little long rounded in front and free.
Lips rather broad and a little fleshy.
Anterior ''Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. XVIII 1846 p. 285.
' Atlas Ichth. IX 1878 PL 1 395 fig.
3. nostrils far apart near edge of snout and each in a fleshy tube equal to about half of orbit.
Posterior nostril small lateral close in front of eye and nearly level with upper margin of iUil.
Interorbital space broad flattened and a trifle elevated.
Opercle with a somewhat narrow fleshy gillflap.
Top of head broad and more or less flattened.
Gillopening large extending forward till about an eyediameter posterior to posterior rim of orbit and branch iostegal membrane forming a broad fold over isthmus.
Gillrakers small short broad asperous tubercles and about 7 in number on first arch.
Filaments small nearly equal to pupil.
Accessory branchial cavity large.
Scales rather small cycloid striate and those on bases of caudal and pectoral fins small.
On top of head scales more or less osseous and cemented together.
Same on opercular region and on cheek.
Scales on costal region a trifle larger than elsewhere.
Lateral line a Fittle high or superior at first then droping one or two scales till over vent after which it continues medianly to caudal.
Tubes simple.
Dorsal of nearly uniform height long and beginning about oer first third of pectoral.
Origin of anal about midway between tip of maxillarj' posteriorly and base of caudal and similar to dorsal.
Caudal rounded and middle rays longest.
Pectoral long rounded reaching about f of distance to anal and middle rays longest.
Ventral inserted just behind base of pectoral or a little before origin of dorsal small or reaching about half way to vent.
Vent close to origin of anal.
Caudal peduncle compressed and its least depth about  its length.
Color in alcohol a livid plumbeousbrown ventral but little paler or somewhat dirty white.
Each scale on side marked with a slaty or dusky spot.
Fins more or less slatybrown venti'als whitish.
Tip of each dorsal and anal ray whitish.
Indistinct oblique dusky bars or bands on dorsal and anal and most distinct on last rays.
Traces of man indistinct transverse narrow or wavy dusky crossbars on caudal.
Margin of pectoral narrowly pale.
Lower surface of head pale livid slaty with round whitish blotches or spots.
Iris slaty.
Length 8 inches.
Three examples.
Baram Borneo.
Harrison and Hiller.
Dr. Steindaehner's figure differs a little in the absence of the blackish oblique bars on the dorsal which are very distinct in one of my examples.
73.
Ophicephalus pleurophthalmus Bleeker.
One example from Kapuas.
Harrison and Hiller.
74.
Ophicephalus lucius Cuvier.
Two examples from Baram.
Harrison and Hiller.
TOXOTID.
75.
Toxotes microlepis Gunther.
One example.
It differs a little in coloration from Bleeker's figure though purely individual.
EPHIPPIDJE.
76.
Ephippus argUS Linnaeus.
Two examples larger 3 inches long.
The spots are not nearly so numerous as those shown in Day's figure. Those on my smaller secimen are about 5 in number along the lateral line.
TRIACANTHID.
77.
Triacanthus oxycephalus Bleeker.
Head .3 depth 2f  D. V23 A.
19 snout U in head eye 3f dorsal spine 2h in head and trunk anal spine 3f  pelvic rocess 4 base of rayed dorsal 3 base of anal 6 length of caudal peduncle 4 length of pectoral equal to space between front margin of anterior nostril and posterior margin of orbit interorbital space about equal to orbit.
Upper edge of occipital crest nearly straight.
Space between posterior margin of orbit and origin of spinous dorsal about equals If eyediameters.
Spinous dorsal pale brown without markings.
Length caudal damaged about 5 inches.
A small example is much deeper otherwise agreeing.
TETRAODONTID.
78.
Tetraodon palembangensis Bleeker.
Two examples largest 8 inches long from the Kapuas.
SCORPNID.
SYNANCEIN.E.
79.
Leptosynanceia greenmani sp.
nov. Head 2 depth 3i 1.
XVI 5 A. V 5 P. 14 V. I 4 width of head 2f in head and trunk  depth of head 1 in its length seventh dorsal spine 3tV last dorsal spine about 3 first dorsal ray about 2f fourth anal spine 3 third anal ray 2  caudal H length of pectoral I ventral If least depth of caudal peduncle 3 mandible 2 snout 4 in head measured from tip of upper jaw medianly eye 11 maxillary 2 distal expanded extremity of maxillary 5 interorbital space 3.
Body elongate broadly depressed anteriorly trunk compressed so that when viewed from above tapering to caudal.
Profiles more or  Atlas Ichlh. IX.
1877 PI.
1 36.3. '
Fishes of India I 1875 PI.
29 fig.
3.
33 508 July less similar.
Caudal peduncle compressed its least depth about equal to its length from base of anal membrane.
Head large very broad robust lroader posteriorly and upper profile a trifle conca'e.
Upper surface of head more or less flattened medianly  lower surface more or less convex.
Snout short very broad flattened or only a trifle convex when viewed from above loth its margin and that of upper jaw which is closely parallel emarginate.
Eyes small a trifle longer than broad rounded superior though well separated and g.
12.
 Leptosynanceia greenmani Fowler.
placed near first third of length in head.
Maxillary nearly vertical distally well expanded so that its posterior margin is about level with anterior nostril.
Mandible thick heavy nearly vertical convex and well protruded.
Teeth minute in rather broad bands which do not meet anteriorly though approaching close.
No teeth on roof of mouth anteriorly or on tongue.
Tongue very large broad thick and only free around edges.
Anterior nostrils each in a short tube about as far apart as interorbital space and close to edge of snout.
Posterior nostrils same distance apart each with a cutaneous margin and directly in front of eye.
Interorbital space rather broad and flattened.
Ridges on top of head distinct especially parietal.
Nuchal bony knoblike processes one on each side of each parietal ridge large and distinct.
Just anterior to nuchal knob a smaller parietal knob on each side.
Tympanic knob small and inconspicuous.
Two preorbital spines lower much larger.
Five spinous processes along margin of preopercle vipper 2 which are near its angle enlarged and conspicuous.
On ridge of preopercle 2 small blunt spinous processes and another on cheek just below eye.
Opercular spines 2 and superior.
Articular portion of mandible large.
Gillopening lateral large and carried forward about an eyediameter posterior to posterior margin of eye.
Rakers about 10 small rounded knobs low and much less than eye on first arch.
Filaments about half of interorbital space.
Pseud obranchite of several filaments.
Width of isthmus a trifle more than interorbital space.
Body scaleless and skin smooth anteriorly and above and together with most of head covered with minute papillfp.
In a lateral series close to and concurrent with upper profile a series of 10 short bony pricks following course of lateral line.
Small papilla
also on spinous dorsal where they form oblique crossing series.
Spinous dorsal with long base spines pungent heteracanthous and with exception of first two of more or less equal height.
Origin of spinous dorsal a little before base of uppermost pectoral ray.
Each dorsal spine with a more or less cutaneous or adiposelike flexible tip.
Anal spines similar fourth longest.
Origin of spinous anal about midway between base of lowest pectoral ray and base of caudal.
Membranes of both spinous dorsal and anal emarginate.
Rayed vertical fins with simple rays.
Origin of soft dorsal about last fourth in length of head and trunk.
Origin of rayed anal slightly before.
Third dorsal ray longest and others graduated down edge of fin rounded.
Third anal ray longest others more or less subequal.
Caudal rounded and rather oblong.
Pectoral large broadly expanded of simple rays and base of lowest ray about last third in length of head.
Ventral with broad base united by membrane with belly and base of spine opposite to base of lowest pectoral ray.
Spine robust and with fleshy end.
Second ventral ray longest.
Vent close in front of anal.
Color in alcohol pale brown lower surface scarcely paler.
Head finely mottled or marbled with darker brown and back and sides with numerous large deep brownish blotches.
Fins also similarly marked and colored.
Soft dorsal anal and caudal with conspicuous white and rather roal margins color adjoining almost blackish but fading out to brownish groundcolor soon though on caudal distally more darker than on other fins.
Pectoral mottled with brownish becoming distally blackish and without white margin.
Ventral pale blotched with dusky distally.
Iris slaty.
Length 6 inches.
TypeNo.
2349 W. I. A.P.
Baram Borneo.
1897.
Mr. Alfred C. Harrison Jr. and Dr. H. M. Hiller.
Also paratypes No.
2381 W. I.
A. P. with same data and No.
2509 W. I.
A. P. from the mouth of the Baram river collected by Dr. W. H. Furness in 1898.
This species is closely related to Leptosiinanccia asterohlepa Richardson but differs at once in coloration the edges of all the fins in that species being blackish while in Leptosynanceia greemnani they are margined with whitish on the rayed dorsals and anal and caudal.
Bleeker's figure' shows a more narbled appearance but the edges of these fins are also dark.
Further the dark and pale markings on the trunk are exactly negative to L. greenmani.
Named for Dr. I.
J. Greenman Director of the Wistar Institute of Anatomy in Philadelphia.
GOBIID.
ELEOTRIDIN.E.
80.
Ophiooara porocephala Valenciennes.
Head 2f  depth 4 D. VI i 8 A. i 6 scales 37 in a lateral series to base of caudal ahout 15 series of scales from origin of spinous dorsal to middle of dorsal transversely depth of head about If in its length width of head 1i mandible 2 length of depressed spinous dorsal 2 base of second dorsal 2 sixth dorsal ray 2 base of anal 2 fifth anal ray 2 length of caudal about If pectoral ly ventral Ijf  snout 3f in head measured from tip of upper jaw eye 6f  maxillary 2 width of mouth 3 interorbital sjjace 2.
Cleft of mouth extending but little beyond anterior margin of eye.
Series of pearlcolored spots along loer part of sides more or less regular and persistent in alcohol.
Traces of a Avhitish margin to soft dorsal and anal.
Ventral dark like back with light margin.
I.iength 6f inches.
Three examples.
Baram.
Harrison and Hiller.
All dark or blackishbrown with whitish spots on side though the eye appears to be a little smaller than in Day's figure.
' '' Synanceia asterohlepa Richardson Voyage of the Sulphur Fish I 1841 p. iO PI 39. figs.
13.
Coast of New Guinea.
'' Atlas Ichth. IX.
1877 PI.
6 116 fie.
6.
 Fishes of India II 1S76 PI.
G7 fis.
1.
1905.
511 GIGANTOGOBIUS gen. nov.
Type Gigantogohins jordani sp.
nov. Scales small about S8.
Body depressed especially head.
Snout broad and depressed.
Dorsal spines not elevated.
Ventrals separate.
Eyes small and superior.
Largest of the Gobies.
Rivers of Borneo.
I'lyaTalu gigantic K'ci3idi the ancient name of tlie Goby.
81.
Gigantogobius jordani sp.
nov. ' Head 2 depth 4 D. VIi.
9 i A. i.
8 i P. 17 V. i.
5 scales 88 to base of caudal and about 6 more on latter scales about 32 in a transverse series at origin of anal depth of head about 2 in its length width of head If  mandible 2 second dorsal spine 3f  third branched dorsal ray 2f  base of sinous dorsal 2 base of rayed dorsal 2 first branched anal ray 4i sixth anal ray 2 Ijase of anal 2 length of caudal If least depth of caudal peduncle 2f pectoral 2 ventral 2 Fig.
13.
 Gigantogohius jordani Fowler.
greatest width of trunk If snout 3f in head from tip of upper jaw eye llf maxillary 2 interorbital space 3 internasal space 4 width of mouth 2.
Pody elongate very robust and solid depressed anteriorly sides rather convex and tail well compressed.
Greatest depth at origin of spinous dorsal.
Profiles of trmk a little convex and similar.
Caudal peduncle strongly compressed and its least depth about 1 in its length.
Head very large depressed more or less flattened above and more convex beloA'.
Upper profile concave from snout in front to occiput.
liOwer profile convex.
Snout obtuse broad and a little convex above.
Upper jaw broad and well roduced in front.
Eye small circular laterally superior and placed about first third in total length of head.
Mandible large convex and well produced.
Mouth large superior oblique and gape curved in profile.
Maxillaroljliciue and reaching about opposite posterior margin of puil.
Lips thick and fleshy ediies papillose.
Teeth short conic powerful erect and irregular in at least outer series of each jaw.
Onh an inner adjoining broad band in upper iaw of minute ones.
Roof of mouth and tongue edentulous.
Tongue broad rounded in front and free.
Nostrils superior anterior ones each in a short tube near margin of snout though well separated distance between being equal to that of posterior pair which are close in front of eye in form of simple pores.
Interorbital space broad and flattened.
Opercle ending in a triangular point above and with narrow cutaneous flap.
Gillopening large extending forward a little before middle in length of head though falling a little behind posterior margin of orbit.
Rakers about 10 knoblike bony processes on first arch rounded much shorter than filaments though large.
Filaments about equal to orbit.
Isthmus narrow.
Scales small cycloid striate thin and rather narrowly imbricated.
Head scaled except most of snout jaws mandilile and branchiostegal regions which are naked.
Both dorsals pectoral except base and ventral also naked.
Greater part of caudal scaly also base of pectoral.
Scales before spinous dorsal and on head above on base of caudal and on breast especially reduced or crowded.
No lateral line.
Dorsal spines a little flexible membranes emarginate and second longest.
Fin small its origin about over middle of depressed pectoral or about midway between tip of snout and middle of last dorsal ray when depressed and not reaching rayed dorsal.
Rayed dorsal well developed posteriorly higher or fifth ray about longest and origin of fin a little nearer base of caudal than posterior margin of preopercle.
Anal similar to rayed dorsal and inserted a little posterior to its origin.
Caudal large rounded median rays a little longest.
Pectoral rather small lower rays more expanded and branched base of fin a little fleshy and when depressed tip of fin reaches about opposite middle of length of depressed spinous dorsal.
Ventrals separate anteriorly with base fleshy inserted a little in advance of base of lowest pectoral ray rays graduated to fourtli which is longest and tip of depressed fin reaching a little more than half wav to anal.
Anal papilla large and fleshy.
Vent at a point about last in space between tip of depressed ventral and origin of anal.
Color in alcohol deep blackishbrown a slaty hue due doubtless to the precipitate and more or less nebulous.
Bell' lower surface of head and breast scarcely paler or dirtybrownish.
Iower surface of head with paler blotches some of which are more or less confluent.
Fins all dusky brownish variegated with darker or blackishbrown spots giving them a somewhat barred appearance.
Eyes slaty.
Length 26 inches.
Type No.
2387 W. I.
A. P. Baram Borneo.
1897.
Mr. Alfred C. Harrison Jr. and Dr. H. M. Hiller.
Also paratype No.
2763 W. I.
A. P. Same data.
It is smaller.
I take pleasure in dedicating this interesting species to Dr. David Starr Jordan of the Leland Stanford Junior University my most able preceptor in Ichthyology.
82.
Butis butis Hamilton.
Head 2 depth 4f  D. VIi 8 A. i 8 scales 29 in lateral series to base of caudal and 2 more on latter 13 scales olliquely between origin of spinous dorsal and that of anal.
Each scale of body with a smaller one or more usually at its base.
This agrees fairly well with Day's figure of Eleotris butis'' though there are four or five brownish lines radiating from the eye.
Sides of head marked sparsely with brownish specks.
Four examples.
PERIOPHTHALMIN.
83.
Periophthalmodon schlosseri Pallas.
Head 31 depth 41 D. VHi 12 A. i 12 scales 51 in a lateral series to base of caudal and 4 or 5 more on latter about 14 scales in a transverse oblique series from origin of soft dorsal to anal width of head 1 1 in its length depth of head 1 snout 3 eye6i maxinary2f width of mouth 2 least depth of caudal peduncle 2f  width of base of pectoral 3 length of pectoral 1 ventral 2 caudal 1 second dorsal spine If sixth dorsal ray 2f  tenth anal ray 3f.
Lower surface of head and breast naked.
In alcohol brownish under surface of body paler or whitish and ventrals and anal similar.
Spinous dorsal blackishbrown with upper margin conspicuously white.
Soft dorsal brownish with a broad median dusky or blackishbrown band.
A dusky band from eye to shoulder.
Iris slaty and outer lid white.
Length 8 inches.
Four examples.
84.
Periophtlialmus argentilineatus Valenciennes.
Head 4 depth 5 D.XIII13 A.
11 P.i 14 V. 15 scales kbout 80
in a lateral series from above gillopening posteriorly to base of 'Fishes of India II 1876 PI.
67 fig.
3.
'' Boleophthalmus Valenciennes may be distinguished from Scartelaos Swainson by the filamentous dorsal spines.
As I have only examined examples of Boleophthalmus chinensis Osbeck B. hoddcerti Schlegel the type of Bvleophthabnus Valenciennes may be different.
Also I have only seen Scartelaos aucupatorius Richardson from China which may be different from S.
viridis Swainson the type of the latter's genus.
514 July caudal antl about 4 more on latter about 23 scales in a transverse series from origin of soft dorsal to base of anal width of head 14 in its length depth of head 1 snout 3 eye 3f  width of mouth 2i first dorsal spine Ij first dorsal ray about 2 last anal ray alout 3 caudal damaged 1 pectoral to scaly lase alout H length of ventral nearly 2 least depth of caudal peduncle 3.
Body elongate somewhat compressed tapering to caudal so that greatest depth exclusive of head is just behind it.
Profiles even and similar.
Caudal peduncle rather long its least depth a trifle over half its length.
Head robust a little ollong widest below upper surface little constricted but little deeper posteriorly and anterior profile stee.
Snout broader than long and with both anterior profile and surface convex.
Fig.
14.
 Periophthahnus argentilineatus 'alenciennes.
Eye high large a little longer than deep and anterior.
Moutli broad with large j aws  and lower a little inferior.
Lips fleshy.
Inroad  and forming a broad fold at each corner of moith.
Teeth large about 20
in each jaw conic pointed and uniserial.
Roof of mouth and tongue aparently smooth.
Tongue large thick rounded and not free.
Nostrils well separated on each side of snout just below front margin of e3e.
Interorbital space hardly defined eyes approximated.
Gillopening lateral its length about 3f in head.
Gillrakers a few small weak fleshy processes.
First arch with lower anterior part more or less adnate to pharynx In' menibrane.
Gillfilaments rather short.
Isthmus broad .
Scales small jjresent on occiut or on top of head behind eyes and on sides of head.
In these regions and on back about spinous dorsal and also on belly and chest they are small or crowded.
On posterior side of body enlarged.
Small scales only on bases of pectoral and caudal.
No lateral line.
Spinous dorsal beginning behind base of pectoral margin of fin entire spines graduated down from first which are longest and height of fin a little more than greatest depth of lody.
Soft dorsal inserted over that of anal first ray highest and others graduated down.
Origin of anal aljout opposite that of soft dorsal and graduated to last rays which are longest.
Margins of both rayed dorsal and anal entire.
Caudal damaged elongate and median ra's longest.
Pectoral broad with long scaled fleshy iDase and not quite reaching opposite vent.
Ventrals sejmrate small sjjine short and reaching about half way to anal.
A'ent well before anal and with an anal papilla.
Color in alcohol deep brown back darker and lower surface a more livid or soiled brownish on abdomen and lower surface of head somewhat whitish.
On lower side of head a number of small whitish round spots and on lower side of trunk a number of short indistinctly defined vertical bars of same color.
Trunk and head also more or less mottled W'ith a darker shade of brown than general bodycolor sprinkled with various irregular blackisn spots.
Dorsals brownish margins whitish below which is a broad llackish submarginal band most distinct on spinous fin.
Below dark bands another pale or whitish one similar to margins.
Basal portions of dorsals brownish marked with a number of rather large Avhitish spots of irregular distribution.
Other fins brownish pectoral and caudal darker and anal pale.
Iris slaty.
Length 2 inches caudal damaged.
Three examples.
GOBITN.E.
85.
Glossogobius giurus Hamilton.
Head 3 depth 5i L.
TI 9 A. i 8 scales 32 in lateral line to base of caudal and 3 more on latter 14 scales between origin of dorsal and that of anal snout 3 J in head from tip of upper jaw eye 4J.
In alcohol body shows traces of about 8 pale longitudinal narrow lines which are continuous.
Side with 5 nebulous or brownish blotches.
Opercle with a duskybrown blotch.
Several short deep brown bars on base of pectoral.
In several of these latter points it will thus be seen to differ a little from Day's figure of Gobius giurusJ I.engtli 4 inches.
Five examples.
'' Fishes of India II 1876 PI.
66 fig.
1.
516 July 86Chaenogobius megacephalus sp.
nov. Head 3 depth about 6
 D. VII 11  A. I 10 P. 16 V. I 5 I 5  scales about 75
squamation injured to base of caudal scales about 14
squamation injured in a transverse series at origin of anal depth of head about 2 in its length width of head 1 snout 3 eye 5 width of mouth 2f  maxillary 2 pectoral If ventral 2J third dorsal spine 2 second developed dorsal ray 2 last 3 first developed anal ray 3 last 3 caudal about U least depth of caudal peduncle 3 interorbital space 2 in horizontal orbital diameter.
Body elongate depressed anteriorly and sides and tail well compressed.
Greatest depth apparently about belly.
Caudal peduncle rather long its least depth about If in its length.
Head large depressed below more or less flattened and upper surFig.
15.
 Chwnogobius megacephalus Fowler.
face convex.
Upper profile steep and convex or obtuse to eye then more or less shallowly convex.
Snout large broad convexly rounded and well developed upper jaw produced.
Eye rather small high somewhat directed upward a little longer than deep and posterior margin a little in advance of middle of length of head.
Jaws rather large and powerful and upper slightly protruding.
Mouth large broad and maxillary reaching a trifle past posterior margin of orbit.
Lips rather thin fleshy and with lateral margins papillose.
Teeth in broad bands in jaws not connected in front and outer ones not forming a pronounced outer series though a little larger than inner.
No vomerine or palatine teeth.
Upper buccal flap broad.
Tongue broad smooth thick truncated with a median groove or emargination and little free in front.
Nostrils lateral in front of eye anterior a little nearer front margin of eye than tip of upper jaw and posterior close in front of eye.
Interorbital space narrow and flattened.
Gillopening lateral slightly oblique and its length about 2 in head.
Rakers about 3  5 short rounded tubercles.
Filaments short about equal to horizontal diameter of pupil.
Scales small finely ctenoid.
Body mostly scaly almost all fallen in this example.
Scales on back before and below spinous dorsal greath' reduced and crowded.
Posteriorly on trunk larger scales.
Fins except base of caudal and traces of minute scales at base of pectoral scaleless.
Breast and median line of belly scaleless and without traces of pockets.
No lateral line.
Dorsal spines a little pungent third a trifle longest and others graduated.
Origin of spinous dorsal about midway between tip of upper jaw and penultimate dorsal ray.
Second dorsal inserted a trifle in advance of anal a little nearer base of caudal than posterior margin of eye and fin rays mostly uniform in height.
Anal similar.
Caudal elongate median rays longest and edges above and below rounded.
Pectoral long broad radii similar none silky but all joined by membranes and those about and just below median longest.
Ventrals united and with a rather broad frenum in front.
Vent close in front of anal.
Anal papilla but little shorter than eye.
Color in alcohol dull pale brown lower surface not paler.
Spinous dorsal pale brown.
Soft dorsal and caudal similar with series of indistinct brownish blotches those on former oblicivie and those on latter transverse.
Anal ventral and pectoral brown latter darker.
Iris brownish.
Ivength 3 inches.
Type No.
13900 W. I.
A. P. Borneo.
1898.
Dr. W. H. Furness.
One example.
This species is related to Gohius melanocephalus Bleeker G. personatus Bleeker and G. grammepomus Bleeker. From all of these it differs at once in the larger head which is equal to 3 in the entire length of the fish inclusive of caudal.
Miyaj great or large nsfaXij head.
SOLEID.
87.
Brachirus panoides Bleeker.
One example.
88.
Paraplagusia marmorata Bleeker.
Head 4 depth 3f  D. 100 A.
80 scales 100 in a median lateral  Verh.
Bat.
Gemot.
Bijd.
Blenn.
Gob.
Soend.
Moluk.
Arch.
 XXII 1849 p. 33.
Purworedjo in flumine Bogowonto. 
L. c p. 34.
Banjumas in flumine Seraiju.
 L. c. Purworedjo in flumine Bogowonto series from gilloieiiing below lateral line to base of caudal in greatest width of body 26 series of scales between ventral profile of body and lateral line and between latter and upper lateral line 16 snout 2 in head eye equal to interorbital space.
Length 7 inches.
Two examples.
89.
CynoglosauB borneensis Bleeker .
Head 4i depth oj D. 100 A. about 4 82 caudal about 10 space between tip of snout and uper eye 2 in head mouth cleft 5 upper eye 4 in space to tip of snout interorbital space 4 about 81 scales in lateral line beginning count above posterior edge of gilloening to base of caudal scjuamation injured  Ijelow and in a median series nearly So scales within same limits 40 scales in a transverse series in greatest width of body or 6 between ujjper profile and uper lranch of lateral line 14 between latter and median branch and 20 below.
Body long greatly comressed sinistral and greatest depth falling about first f in length.
Tail tapering rather narrowly posteriorly.
Head moderate upper rofile a little more convex though both evenly rounded.
Snout a little long well compressed and profile stronglconvex.
Eyes rather small close together and upper with only I of its length in advance of anterior margin of lower.
Posterior margin of lower eye much further from posterior edge of gillopening than anterior margin of upper eye is from tip of .inout.
jMouth large cleft nearly horizontal.
Teeth fine small sharp pointed and in bands only in dextral side of jaws.
Sinistral side of jaws with a lalial fringe of rather small ragged cutaneous flaps.
Tongue thick and inconspicuous.
Upper nostril just alout oposite anterior margin of lower eye in interorbital space but nearer upper eye than lower.
Lower nostril just a trifle in advance of anterior edge of upper eye close to gape of mouth and in a short fleshy tulie.
Interorlital space narrow flattened medianly otherwise slightly concave.
Tillopening small ascenfling about level with middle of lower eye and membrane forming a broad fold over narrow comjjressed isthmus.
Rakers none.
Filaments aljout f length of mouth cleft.
Scales ctenoid small and crowded on anterior half of lody aufl around its profiles lit lecoming enlaiged on posterior half esiecially medianly.
Lateral system of mucous pores double along trunk median series begins neaitip of snout and nuis direct to base of caudal while uper one is confluent at its origin with this and again well behind eye by means of a downward or nearly vertical series.
Uper series then continues near and concurrent with ujiper profileline till tielow fifth ray of caidal counting from caudal where it ascends on 1905.
519 doreal.
A system or series of mucous pores continues lateral system close to lower irofile of snout to mouth and giving off horizontally a series which extends toward upper nostril.
A series of pores extends down irregularly from intersecting series between eyes and gillopening and also another small series on lower side of head anterior to former.
A similar pattern of lateral system on dextral side of body.
Dorsal and caudal confluent with anal margins of first and last more or less scalloped or incised while caudal is pointed.
First 4 rays of anal united by a broad membrane with rest of fin.
Color in alcohol uniform dull brown on sinistral side.
Dextral side pale brownishwhite.
Fins brownish darker than sinistral side.
Traces of 3 median longitudinal darker lines on side of trunk median one on median lranch of lateral system.
Inside gillopening brownish.
Iris pale slaty.
Length 7j inches.
One example.
Fig.
16.
 Cynoglossus kapuasensis Fowler.
90.
Cynoglossus kapuasensis sp.
nov. Head 5 depth 3i D. 109 A.
487 caudal 10 space between tip of snout and upper eye 2 in head mouth cleft 5f  upper eye oh in space to tip of snout interorbital space 5 about 124 scales in lateral line beginning count above posterior edge of gillopening to base of caudal below and in a median series about same number within same limits 67 scales in a transverse series in greatest width of body or 9 between upper profile and upper branch of lateral line 21 between latter and median branch 29 between latter and lower branch and 8 between latter and lower profileline.
Body elongate greatly compressed sinistral and greatest depth falling about first third in length.
Tail tapering posteriorly and its profiles nearly straight.
Head small upper profile a little more convex than lower and both rounded.
Snout rather long compressed and profile strongly convex.
Eyes small close together and upper with about  its diameter in advance of anterior margin of lower.
Posterior margin of lower eye about same distance from gillopening as anterior margin of upper eye is from tip of snout.
Mouth cleft large a little curved upward in middle and nearly horizontal in position.
Teeth very minute merely an asperous edge to each jaw on dextral side those of sinistral side perfectly smooth.
Dextral side with a broad fleshy labial fold finely or minutely fringed.
Tongue thick and fleshy.
Upper nostril midway in interorbital space and jvist below posterior margin of upper eye.
Iower nostril a little behind anterior margin of upper eye close to gape of mouth and in a short fleshy tube.
Interorbital space narrow and a little concave.
Gillopening small ascending about level with lower margin of upper eye and membrane forming a broad fold over rather narrow compressed isthmus which has rounded edge.
Rakers minute fleshy or cutaneous points.
Filaments rather long longest about  of length of gape of mouth.
Scales rather finely ctenoid small and crowded on anterior third of body and around its profiles but becoming enlarged on median portion of trimk posteriorly and tail.
Lateral system of mucous pores triple.
Median series begins near tip of snout and extends to base of caudal direct.
Upper series confluent at its origin with middle series runs concurrent with dorsal profile but a short distance below till below base of fifth dorsal ray counting from caudal where it ascends dorsal fin.
Lower series has its origin at front of mandible laterally extending along lower edge of preopercle and down lower side of head and finally concurrent and near lower profile of body till above base of fifth anal ray also counting from caudal where it descends on the anal fin.
Intersecting scries connect occipital region of upper series with median series and is then continued below to lower series.
Along lower anterior margin of snout upper series is continued some distance after which it ascends obliquely toward upper eye.
Dorsal anal and caudal confluent margins of former two fins scalloped or a little emarginate between each ray.
Caudal rather rounded.
Anal with first 4 rays apparently a little separate from rest of fin.
Color in alcohol rather dark brown on sinistral side with traces of darker brown mottlings and blotches.
Fins brownish marginally whitish and mottled more or less basallv with darker brownish.
Dextral side whitish or brownishwhite also same color extending on fins.
Iris dull slaty.
Inside gillopening pale or wiiitish.
Length llyinches.
Type No.
2402 W. I.
A. P. Ivapuas river western Borneo.
1898.
Mr. Alfred C. Harrison.
Jr. and Dr. H. M. Hiller.
One example.
This species approaches Cynoglossus tnicrolepis Bleeker in the posterior position of the upper nostril which is below the posterior portion of the eye but it differs from that species in the fewer fin rays and scales.
It also resembles Cynoglossus potous Cuvier in coloration traces of blotches being evident but differs in the nostrils and fin radii.
From Cynoglossus borneensis Bleeker it differs in the absence of the three median longitudinal dark lines etc.
Named for the Kapuas river in western Dutch Borneo.
Fauxal Works.
BlKEKEK PiETER VAX.
1851.
Bijdrage tot de kennis der iclithyologische fauna van Borneo met beschrijving van 16 nieuwe soorten van zoetvatervis'chen Xat Tiids Ned.
lad.
Batavia I 1850 1S51 pp.
116.
March 1850.
Visschen van Borneo.
L. c pp.
161162.
Nieuwe bijdrage tot de kenni.s der iclithyologische fauna van Borneo met beschrijving van eenige nieuwe soorten van zoetwatervisschen L c pp.
259275.
November.
1850.
Derde bijdrage tot de kennis der ichthyologische fauna van Borneo met beschrijving van eenige nieuwe soorten van zoetwatervisschen.
L c II 1851 pp.
5770.
February 1851.
' ' Vierde bijdrage tot de kennis der ichthyologische fauna van Borneo met beschrijving van eenige nieuwe soorten van zoetwatervisschen L c pp.
193208.
May 1851.
Vijfde bijdrage tot de kennis der ichthyologische fauna van Borneo met beschrijving van eenige nieuwe soorten van zoetwatervisschen.
L c pp .415442.
August 1851.
1852.
Zesde bijdrage tot de kennis der ichthyologische fauna van Borneo.
Visschen van Pamangkat Bandjermassing Praboekarta en Sampit L c III 1852 pp.
407442.
June 1852. 1853.
Zevende bijdrage tot de kennis der ichthyologisclie fauna van Borneo.
Zoetwatervisschen van Sambas Pontianak en Pangaron.
L c Y II pp.
427462.
JanuaryAugust 1853.
' ' 1855.
Achtste bijdrage tot de kennis der ichthyologische fauna van Borneo.
Zoetwatervisschen van Bandjermasin.
L. c VIII V pp 151168 November 1854.
Negende bijdrage tot de kennis der ichthijologische fauna van Borneo.
Zoetwatervisschen van Pontianak en Bandjermasin.
L. c IX VI pp 415430.
July 1855.
1857.
Tiende bijdrage tot de kennis der ichthyologische fauna van Borneo 1.
Visschen van de rivieren Barito Kahajan en Kapoeas.
Act.
Soc.
Sci.
Ind.
Neerl. II pp.
121.
September 1856.
'Plagusia microlepis Bleeker Nat.
Tijd.'.
Ned.
Ind. I 1850 1851 p. 413.
Bandjermassing Borneo austroorientalis in fluviis.
J.
Wolflf.
 Pleuronectes potous Cuvier Regne Animal Ed.
II II 1829 p. 344.
Based on Jerree potoo Russell Fishes of Coromandel I 1803 p. 58 PI.
74.
Vizagapatam.
Madras.
Elfde bijdrage tot tie kennis der ichthyologische fauna van Borneo.
Visschen van SinUawang.
L. c. Ill pp.
14.
May 1857.
1S58.
Twaalfde bijdrage tot de kennis der vischfauna van Borneo.
Visschen van Sinkawang.
L. c V pp.
110.
October 1857March 1858.
Vischsoorten van Sinkawang verzameld door J. H. A.
B. Sonnemann Rebentisch.
Nat.
Tijds.
Ned.
Ind. XVI II 185859 pp.
195 196.
March 1858.
Slangen en vissclien uit de onistreken van Montrado verzameld door G. J. Filet.
L. c pp.
196 197.
March 1858.
'Slangen en visschen Aan Koetei verzameld door J. Wolff.
L. c p. 206.
April 1858.
1859.
Verslag van eene verzameling Reptilien en Visschen van Westelijk Borneo aangeboden door J. H. A. Sonnemann Rebentisch.
L. c pp.
433441.
January 1859.
Zoetwatervisschen van Sintang verzameld door den heer A. Thepass.
L. c XX VI 185859 pp.
199200.
July 1859.
1860.
Dertiende bijdrage tot de kennis der vischfauna van Borneo.
4 ct. Soc.
Sci.
Ind.
NeerL VIII pp.
164.
September 1859.
Not consulted Martens.
Eduard von.
1864.
Siisswasser Fische von Borneo.
Sitz.
Gescll.
Nat.
Fr.
Berlin 186364 p. 5.
Verbal communication.
GtJNTHER Albert.
1868.
Description of two new Gobioid Fishes from Sarawak.
Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
London I 4 pp.
264266 PI.
12.
VlNCIGUERRA DoCIO.
1880.
Appunti ittiologici suUe collezioni del Museo Civico di Genova.
Prima contribuzione alia Fauna Ittiologica dell' Isola di Borneo.
Siluroidei raccolti durante il viaggio dei Signori M.  G. Doria e D'.
O. Beccari.
Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Stor.
Nat.
Genova XVI 188081 pp.
161182 with 7 text figures.
Janos Karoli.
18S2.
Prodromus piscium Asia orientalis a domine Joanne Xantus annis 186870 collectorum.
Termeszetrajzi Fiizetek Kiadja a Magyar Nenizeti Miizeum Budapest 1881 pp.
147187.
V.AiLLANT.
Leon.
1890.
Sur les Poissons des eaux douces de Borneo.
Congr.
Int.
Zool.
Paris 1889 Compt.
Rend. pp.
8182.
1891.
Note on Lepidoglanis.
Bidl.
Soc.
Philomath.
Paris III S 189091 Compt.
Rend. No.
2 p. 6.
1893.
Contribution a I'etude de la faune ichthyologique de Borneo.
Noiiv.
Arch.
Mus.
Paris V 3 pp.
23114 Pis.
12.
1894.
Sur la faune ichthyologicfue des eaux douces de Borneo.
Compt.
Rend.
Acad.
Sci.
Paris CXVIII.
pp.
209211.
1902.
Resultats zoologiques de I'expedition scientifique neerlandaise au Borneo central.
Poissons.
Notes from the Legden Museum XXIV IIII.
JanuaryJuly November 1902 pp.
1166 figs.
147 Pis.
1 2.
Boulenger George A.
1894.
Descriptions of new Freshwater Fishes from Borneo.
An7i.
Mag.
Nat.
Hi.t.
London XIII 6 pp.
245251.
1895.
List of the Freshwater Fishes Collected bv Mr. A. Everett on Palawan and Balabac.
L. c XV 6 pp.
185187.
Descriptions of Two New Fishes Obtained by Mr. C. Hose in Sarawak.
L. c p. 247.
Bartlett .
1S96.
Saraicak Gazette.
An account of the fishes both in this and the following.
Neither consulted.
Notebook of Saraicak No.
2.
These titles are from Lijst der geschriften van Dr. P. Bleeker over Ichthyologie in chronologische volgorde in Nat.
Tijds.
Ned.
Ind.
Batavia XL 1881 pp.
4989.
Stkindachner Franz.
1901.
Ergebnisse einer zoologischen Forschungsreise in den Molukken unci Borneo im Auftrage der Senckenbergischen naturforschenden Gesellschaft ausgefuhrt von Dr. Willy Kiikenthal ordentl.
Professor der Zoologie an der Universitat Breslau.
Zweiter Teil Wissenschaftliche Reiseergebnisse.
Baud III Heft II.
Mit 8 Tafeln einer Abbildung im Text xmd einer Kartenskizze.
Fische.
Abhand.
Senck.
Nat.
Ges.'
Frankfurt XXV 2 1901 pp.
408464 Pis.
17 IS.
PoPTA Mlle.
C. M. L. 1904.
Descriptions preliminaires des nouvelles especes de Poissons reeueillies au Borneo central par M. le Dr. A. W. Nieuwenhuis en 1898 et en 1900.
Notes from the Leiden Museum XXVI IV October 1902 July 15th 1904 pp.
179202.
34 DIACHA CYLINDmCA A NEW SPECIES OF MTCETOZOA.
BY HUGO BILGRAM.
Sporangia cylindrical with obtuse apex sessile gregareous iridescent steel gray or bronze 1 to 1.7 mm.
high .5 to .65 mm.
thick.
Hypothallus whitish rugose.
Sporangium wall membranous hyaline not adhering to the capillitiimi.
Columella arising from the hypothallus and extending nearly to the apex brown very light and semitranslucent near the base irregular flexuous limeless throughout.
Capillitium brown radiating from the columella to the periphery repeatedly branching and anastomosing.
Spores 10 to 12 microns diameter warted the warts connected by ridges forming a more or less perfect coarse reticulation.
If the published descriptions of the genera of the Mycetozoa are taken verbally this species cannot be classed with any one of those heretofore described.
Its proper location is between Diachwa Lamproderma and Comatricha.
It differs from the first by the total absence of lime in its columella from the second by the cylindrical form of the sporangia and the fact that the capillitium does not radiate from the end of the columella as a centre and from the third by the persistent iridescent wall the absence of a stipe and the irregular columella.
In external appearance as well as in the character of its capillitium it agrees wdth Diachcea from which it differs as before stated onl by the absence of lime.
It was found near Wissahickon creek not far from Indian Rock Philadelphia.
