ON SOME REPTILIAN FREAKS FROM INDIANA.
BY W. S. BLATCHLEY.
Cases of deformity or malformation are seemingly much less common among wild forms of life than among mankind or his domestic animals.
One often sees or hears of twoheaded calves fivelegged pigs and fomlegged chickens but freaks among wild mammals birds and reptiles come to notice but seldom.
In the literature on herpetology at my command I can find only the following records of malformation among reptiles and batrachians in the United States.
Dr. Samuel L. Mitchill in the early part of the nineteenth century published an article entitled Facts and considerations showing that the TwoHeaded Snakes of North America and other parts of the World are not individuals of a distinct race but universally Monsters in which he recorded the finding in Genesee county.
New York of 120 of the young of a female black snake Bascanion constrictor L. among which were three monsters one with two distinct heads one with a double head and only three eyes and one with a double skull furnished with three eyes and a single lower jaw this last had two lodies.
These three specimens he figiued on an accompanying plate.
Dr. Mitchill noted that records of twoheaded snakes had been made up to that date from the West Indian and Polynesian islands in Great Britain and in Italy ' ' and that those from the foreign countries had been supposed to ' ' constitute a race of their own and propagate their kind in regular succession. '
' His paper based on the finding in New York of three individuals among one litter was written to controvert this foolish supposition.
He added that ' ' serpents are destitute of limbs and are consequently incapable of monstrosity in feet legs hands and arms either by defect redundancy or malformation when it happens therefore monstrosity must be in the head or tail and the head is most frequently the seat of it. 
Prof. Jeffries Wyman recorded the occurrence in Massachusetts of a specimen of water snake Tropidonotus sipedon L. with two heads and two tails . 1 American Journ.
Science and Arts X 1826 48.
2 Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist. IX 183.
In the American Naturalist Vol.
XII 1878 p. 470 Mr. H. C. Yarrow stated that there was ' ' but one twoheaded snake in the enormously large collection of reptiles in the Smithsonian Institution. '
' This was a specimen of Ophibolus getulus L. the common chain or king snake from Port Tobacco Maryland.
In the same volume page 694 Dr. J. S. Kingsley mentioned a twoheaded snake species not given as being in the collection of Williams College Massachusetts.
In his Report on the Reptiles and Batrachians of Ohio Dr. W. H. Smith stated that the Museum of Michigan University contains a doubleheaded milk snake Ophibolus doliatus triangulus Boie.
He added Cases of monstrosities among serpents have been observed by various parties from the time of Aristotle and Redi to the present and they as well as the occurrence of monsters in general may be due to shock.
Concerning twoheaded turtles I can find but one reference viz. Dr. Mitchill loc.
cit. says   I have heard of a twoheaded tortoise Testudo that lived to accfuire a considerable size by having taken food at both mouths.
But two notes regarding malformation among batrachians are at hand.
One of these is by Dr. Kingsley loc.
cit. in which he records a specimen of a fivelegged frog Rana palustris from Rochester New York.
The other by Smith loc.
cit. refers to a mention by Ryder  of another fivelegged frog of the same species.
During the past fifteen years examples of four twoheaded snakes one twoheaded turtle one fivelegged frog and one twotailed salamander from Indiana have come to my notice.
While I have seen but two of the individuals the records of the others can be relied upon.
Twoheaded Snakes a.
Of the snakes one at hand as I write is a specimen of the spreading viper Heterodon platyrhinus Latr. six and a half inches in length taken near Manilla Rush county by S. C. Peck in August 1904 and by him presented to the State Museum.
It has two perfect heads both possessing the scale formula of the species.
Each head stands out at nearly right angles to the median line of the front extremity of the body the center or keel of the two rostral plates being 22 mm.
apart.
The two heads unite just back of the hindmost of the inner lower labials there being three rows of small scales between the inner upper labials.
Viewed from above the right head appears Geol.
Surv.
of Ohio IV 18S2 690. '
Science News December 15 1878 p. 69 very slightly longer than the left but when compressed together there is no difference each one being 13 nrni.
in length.
The two oesophagi unite in a common gullet just back of the point of union.
In all other respects the specimen is a typical young form of H. platyrhinus
b.
A small twoheaded garter snake was taken on a farm southwest of Russellville Putnam county and was kept in alcohol for several years.
It was reported to me by several parties who had seen it but was thrown out on account of decay due to loss of alcohol several weeks before I visited the place.
The heads were said to unite about two inches back of the rostral plate each having a small portion of the body between it and the point of union.
c. In June 1893 a friend reported to me that his son had killed a twoheaded snake in a woods pasture near Terre Haute.
In company with the boy I visited the spot the next day but found that the buzzards had been ahead of me and that only a small portion of the body was left.
It was a house or milk snake Ophiholus douatus triangulus Boie and judging from the fragments and the account of the boy had been about two and a half feet in length.
He said that the heads forked five or six inches back from the front extremity of the body.
d. In the Indianapolis News of July 19 1893 John CoUett exState Geologist of Indiana mentions a doubleheaded garter snake as having been taken west of the Wabash river in Vermillion county a few years previously. '
' Twoheaded Turtle.
 On May 1 1892 John Tiley a coal operator found near Waterman in the southwest corner of Fountain county Indiana a twoheaded turtle.
It was presented to Dr. George T. De Verter who kept it for more than a year when by accident it was drowned.
It was presented in alcohol to Prof. John Collett of Indianapolis and according to the Indianapolis News of July 19 1893 had nothing to distinguish it from the ordinary little river turtle that sits with a row of fellows on a log and plunks into the water when you creep up with designs upon its freedom.
Its back appears a little broader than usual to give it neck room.
The heads are not joined and do not interfere with each other's independence.
Each has its little sack to retreat into in time of danger.
Each has two fully developed eyes a complete and efficacious mouth and a full throat which is beautifully striped in black and yellow lines.
Each has a little stripe of red retreating from each eye and the heads are twins in size.
Either head would have been good enough to serve a turtle of ordinary ambition. '
' The News published a crude drawing of the turtle and from it and the 28 above description I judge that the animal was very probably a specimen of the lady turtle Chrysemys marginata Agassiz.
Dr. De Verter informed the writer that when kept in an aquarium and fed each head acted wholly independently of the other the two being thrust forth for different articles of food  meat mosquito larvae tadpoles etc.
 at the same time or at intervals as occasion and opportunity demanded.
Wliat finally became of the specimen on the death of Prof. Collett is not known.
Fivelegged Frog.
 In the spring of 1892 while teaching zoology at Terre Haute I heard several times of a fivelegged frog at a greenhouse in that city.
I finally visited the place but the specimen could not be located.
The proprietor informed me that lie had seen it on a number of occasions and had caught it once and then let it go.
According to his description it was probably a specimen of the leopard frog Rana virescens Kalm with a fifth leg of the same size as each of the two front ones which was joined to the left side about an inch back of and a little higher than the normal front leg.
The specimen was not seen after my visit and probably fell a victim to some prowling cat.
Twotailed Salamander.
 On June 21 1906 I took from an ancient shell mound which was being excavated near Shoals Martin county a small specimen of the ashy salamander Plethodon cinereus Green which possesses a forked tail.
The animal itself was only 38 mm.
in length the tail comprising 12 mm. or nearly onethird.
At a point near the middle the tail forked the two prongs being separated in life by an angle of about 30 degrees.
The left or longer fork was 7 mm.
in length while the right or shorter one was but 5 mm.
long.
Instead of being cylindrical as in typical specimens each portion was flattened with rather sharp edges above and below.
It is very probable that cases of malformation among reptiles and batrachians are much more common than is generally supposed.
It is safe to say that not more than ten per cent of the normal individuals which are born or hatched ever come within the range of man's vision.
The great majority of the malformed ones are like those of the domestic animals either stillborn or shortlived.
The number of specimens of ' ' freaks ' ' which come to the notice of man is therefore doubtless a very small per cent of those which actually occur.
To the factor of natural variation.
rather than that of shock is probably due the malformations which do occur.
If but three specimens out of 120 of one brood of snakes were malformed on account of a shock to the pregnant mother why did not that shock affect the others
1906.
423 DESCRIPTIONS OF TWO NEW SPECIES OF Centropomus
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
Centropomus gabbi sp.
nov.
Fig.
1 Head 2f  depth 3 D. VIII I 10 i A.
Ill 6 i P. ii 13 V. I 5 scales 66 in lateral line to base of caudal and 17 more out from latter to end of median rays 12 scales in a vertical series between origin of spinous dorsal and lateral line 13 scales in a vertical series between origin of rayed dorsal and lateral line 15 scales in a vertical series between origin of spinous anal and lateral line 7 scales in a vertical series between lateral line and middle of upper siuface of caudal peduncle width of head 3 in its length depth of head at occiput 1 mandible 1 fourth dorsal spine 2 second dorsal ray 2 second iih  a 'mm' Ceniropomu I  i Fowler.
anal spine 1 first anal ray If least depth of caudal peduncle 3j upper caudal lobe about li pectoral If ventral If snout 3 in head measured from tip of upper jaw eye 4f  maxillary 2 interorbital space 6.
Body compressed elongated back a little elevated or more convex than lower profile and greatest depth falling at origin of spinous dorsal.
Edges of body rounded.
Chest flattened.
Least depth of caudal peduncle 1 in its length.
Head compressed sides flattened so that its width is equally wide above and below.
Profile similarly inclined and nearly straight.
Muzzle prominent robust.
Snout as long as broad and with convex surface.
Eye rather large circular touching upper profile and falling about first f in length of head.
Mouth moderately large inclined a little and with gape straight.
Mandible broad depressed on lower surface rami elevated posteriorly inside mouth symphysis with slightly elevated dentigerous process and protruding well in front of snout.
Lips rather thin and fleshy.
Maxillary reaching middle of orbit its upper edge slipping below preorbital to its extremity and distal expansion equals diameter of pupil.
Bands of villiform teeth in jaws on vomer and palatines.
Tongue smooth free and rounded in front.
Nostrils adjoining close to front rim of eye and posterior a little larger.
Along lower edge of preorbital 10 backwardly directed denticles.
Along ridge of preopercle at angle 2 denticles.
Margin of preoperele finely serrated with about 6 especially enlarged serrae at angle.
Edge of suprascapula with graduated denticles to last or posterior which is largest.
Interorbital space flat with 2 equidistant parallel frontal ridges convergent anteriorly at snout.
Parietal ridge beginning as supraocular also prominent and becoming somewhat convergent towards occiput.
A ridge on preorbital.
Opercle ending in a rather broad cutaneous flap posteriorly above.
Gillopening extending forward opposite front rim of orbit.
Gillrakers II 5  10 IV lanceolate slender longest much longer than filaments or f of orbit.
Gillfilaments about equal pupil.
Pseudobranchise smaller than filaments.
Isthmus narrow and with slightly convex surface.
Scales finely ctenoid in even longitudinal series parallel with lateral line and those on middle of side largest.
Scales small on predorsal region also those on or at bases of fins.
About 12 series of scales on cheek.
Head naked except cheek postocular region opercle subopercle parietal region and occiput though scales on opercle much largest.
A narrow basal scaly sheath extending till behind seventh dorsal spine.
Base of rayed dorsal covered with small scales also of anal and caudal.
Axil of pectoral with a pit a cutaneous membrane covering it above.
Ventral with a pointed scaly flap in axil about I length of spine.
Lateral line conspicuous of simple large tubes and sloping down in a curve till on middle of side of caudal peduncle and persisting on caudal to tips of median rays.
Spinous dorsal inserted a little nearer tip of mandible than base of last dorsal ray graduated down from fomth spine which is longest and edge of fin not notched.
Rayed dorsal inserted nearly an eyediameter nearer base of caudal than eye and graduated down from second ray which is longest though first and third but slightly shorter.
Spine of rayed dorsal less than half height of jfin.
Spinous anal inserted nearer base of caudal than origin of ventral second spine longest enlarged and falling about half an eyediameter short of base of caudal.
Third anal spine long slender and but a trifle shorter than second.
Rayed anal graduated down from first ray which is longest and about equal to third anal spine.
Caudal deeply emarginated forked lobes pointed apparently equal and median rays about half length of upper lobe.
Pectoral broad upper rays longest and reaching about  to spinous anal.
Ventral inserted just behind base of pectoral reaching f of space to spinous anal and spine about f length of fin.
Vent a trifle before tips of ventrals.
Color in alcohol dull brassybrown with obscure olivaceous tints above and lower smface scarcely paler.
Body also with shining or silvery reflections in some lights.
Lateral line brownish not much darker than bodycolor.
Fins all more or less dilute brownish.
Spinous dorsal with greater median portion of each membrane largely duskybrown and same of rayed dorsal and caudal though basal portions of membranes of these fins pale.
Membrane between second and third anal spines dusky.
Outer front proximal regions of ventrals tinted with brownish dustings.
Iris dull brownish.
Length 10 inches.
Type No.
13469 A. N. S. P. Eastern San Domingo.
Prof. William M. Gabb.
Known to me from the single example described above.
It is close to the figure of C. mexicanus by Vaillant and Bocourt which species according to Dr. Regan is undovibtedly identical with C. parallelus
C. gabhi differs from the aforementioned figure in the third dorsal spine being shorter than the fourth the shorter spine of the rayed anal the comparatively shorter second anal spine which is but a trifle longer than the third and several other characters such as the presence of more preorbital serrse etc.
Named for Prof. WiUiam M. Gabb who collected fishes in San Domingo.
Centropomus heringi sp.
nov.
Fig.
2.
Head 2f  depth 3 D. VIIII 10 i A.
Ill 6 i P. ii 14 V. I 5426 Sept. scales 70 in lateral line to base of caudal and 16 more on caudal 10 scales between origin of spinous dorsal and lateral line in a vertical series 12 scales in a vertical series between origin of rayed dorsal and lateral line 15 scales in a vertical series from origin of spinous anal to lateral line width of head 3f in its length depth of head at occiput 11 mandible 2 sixth dorsal spine 2 second anal spine 1 third anal spine H least depth of caudal peduncle 3f  pectoral 1 ventral 1 ventral spine 2f  snout 3 in head measured from tip of upper jaw eye 4 maxillary 2f interorbital space 7.
Body moderately elongate well compressed and greatest depth about middle of base of spinous dorsal.
Back a little elevated or Fig.
2.
 Centropomus heringi Fowler.
profile above more convex than below.
Edges of body rounded.
Caudal peduncle compressed and least depth which falls about last third of its length about If in latter.
Head compressed sides flattened and appearance attenuated.
Upper profile nearly straight from tip of snout to occiput and much more inclined than lower.
Snout convex rounded when viewed from above with a slight depression in front and longer than wide.
Eye a little ellipsoid touching upper profile and its center about first f in length of head.
Pupil circular.
Mouth nearly horizontal.
Mandible spatulate projecting well beyond tip of upper jaw and each ramus but little elevated inside of mouth.
Maxillary reaching beyond front of pupil slightly though not to middle and distal expansion emarginated posteriorly 2 in horizontal orbital diameter.
Margin of preorbital with 6 backwardly directed teeth or serrse.
Bands of very fine teeth in jaws and on vomer and palatines those on latter very narrow.
Tongue narrow elongately triangular and free in front.
Lower lip laterally rather fleshy.
Nostrils near together posterior larger and close in front of eye and anterior placed about last I in length of snout.
Interorbital space rather narrow and flattened frontal and supraocular keels nearly equidistant.
Posterior ridge of preopercle well serrated at angle 2 large denticles and lower edge with coarser serratures than those on vertical margin.
Ridge just in front with 2 small serrse at angle.
Opercle ending in a long thin flap above.
Suprascapula coarsely serrate above.
Gillopening extending forward opposite froyit margin of orbit.
Gillrakers ii 5  11 iii lanceolate and longest longer than longest filaments or about 1 in horizontal orbital diameter.
Isthmus narrow and with a slight median furrow.
Scales small in series parallel with lateral line small and crowded on predorsal region where they nimiber about 25 and on bases of vertical or unpaired fins.
Scales also small on breast and about chest.
About 7 series of scales on cheek.
Opercles and a patch on each side of head above behind eye scaly.
With these exceptions head more or less cavernous and with prominent ridges.
Dorsals and anals with basal scaly sheaths.
Axil of ventral with a scaly flap covered with a number of small scales.
Lateral line of large simple tubes prominent and uniform in color with rest of body.
Spinous dorsal inserted a trifle behind origin of ventral third and fourth spines evidently longest
though missing and others graduated down.
Rayed dorsal inserted nearly midway between posterior rim of orbit and base of caudal and rays highest anteriorly.
Spinous anal inserted nearly midway between origin of ventral and base of caudal or opposite base of fourth dorsal ray.
Second anal spine very long nearly straight longer than third and reaching beyond base of caudal.
Anal rays graduated down from first which is longest.
Caudal forked lobes evidently pointed.
Pectoral reaching a little beyond base of last dorsal spine though not quite opposite origin of second dorsal.
Ventral inserted a little behind origin of pectoral and reaching f of space to anal though a little short of origin of rayed dorsal.
Vent a little before tips of ventrals or about j in postventral space.
Color in alcohol pale brown more or less uniform lower sm'face and sides with bright reflections.
Back with obscure underlaid mottlings.
Iris dull yellowish.
Length 5 inches.
Type No.
13421 A. N. S. P. Surinam or Dutch Guiana.
Dr. Charles Hering.
Known to me only from a single poorly preserved example which is closely related to C. argenteus.
It differs however chiefly in having 12 scales in a vertical series between the origin of the rayed dorsal and the lateral line and in the variegated back.
The profile of the head is also less attenuated and the second anal spine reaches further beyond base of caudal.
Named for Dr. Charles Hering who collected fishes many years ago at Surinam or Dutch Guiana.
Other species examined are C. pectinatus Poey from Surinam C. constantinus Jordan and Evermann from Rio Janeiro and Los Matheos in Brazil C. argenteus Regan from Surinam C. cuvieri Bocourt from eastern San Domingo C. armatus GUI from western Mexico C. pedimacula Poey from Havana and C. ensiferus Poey from eastern San Domingo.
PLATE XIII.
FOWLER ON DESMOGNATHUS FUSCUS.
October 2.
Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown VicePresident in the Chair.
Thirtythree persons present.
The deaths of Joseph F. Sinnott June 20 of Howard X. Potts July 24 members and of the following correspondents C. R. Von Osten Sacken Eugene Renevier Henry A.
Ward Diomys Stur and E. F. Recluz were announced.
The Publication Committee reported that papers under the following titles had been offered for publication since the last meeting  Description of Five New Species of Orthoptera from Tonkin by James A. G. Rehn May 17.
Description of Two New Polychseta from Alaska by J. Percy Moore June 20.
Note on the Dusky Salamander by H. W. Fowler July 7.
On Some Fishes of Western Cuba by N. E. Mclndoo July 7.
On Some Reptilian Freaks from Indiana by W. S. Blatchley July 7. '
' A Contribution to the Knowledge of the Orthoptera of Montana Yellowstone Park Utah and Colorado by James A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard August 31.
Description of Two New Species of Centropomus  by Henry W. Fowler September 10.
Botanizing in the Canadian Rockies.
 Mr. Stewardson Brown remarked that during the past summer through the liberality of Mrs. Charles Schaffer June and July were spent in studying the plants of the Canadian Rockies along the line of the Canadian Pacific Railway.
The section explored was from Banff Alberta to Glacier B.
C with side trips into the region surrounding Lake Louise to the south of Laggan Station and the Ptarmigan Blind and part of the Pipestone Valleys to the north Lake O'Harra Emerald Lake the Yoho and Little Yoho Valleys in the vicinity of Field B. C. Collections were made consisting of 808 numbers comprising about onethird as many species and more than 4000 specimens.
As these have not yet been critically studied it is impossible to indicate how many may be new to science it is reasonable to suppose however that there are some novelties among them.
The species 29 forming the forest east of the divide appear to differ considerably from those of the west due doubtless to the greater precipitation of moisture on the latter region.
Near the limit of timber and in open ground where the effect of such conditions would not be so marked they appear to be nearly identical.
October 16.
Dr. Benjamin Sharp in the Chair.
 Twentyfive persons present.
Weather Predictions.
 Mr. Harvey M. Watts remarked that a new epoch is about to dawn in meteorological research in that the United States Weather Bureau expects within a month to receive daily reports from the entire northern circumPolar hemisphere  Europe Siberia Alaska and so on around from west to east  allowing the meteorologists for the first time to have synoptic charts made covering this immense area of the inhabited globe.
In explaining the significance of this Mr. Watts went into a careful survey of the great basic causes of weather and climate variations.
He called attention to the universal drift of the general circulation from west to east about the Pole in the regions north of the Tropics in which general circulation are carried by the travelling cyclones and anticyclones centers of low and high barometric pressures and he indicated how the paths of these travelling eddies were determined by the pressures and location of the subTropical high pressure belts which form in the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans huge permanent anticyclones upon whose seasonal shifting and variations in pressure depend the general variations in weather and climate.
The speaker called attention to the fact that the variation in place and pressure of these anticyclones the subTropical high pressure belts it was now held generally by meteorologists were due to variations in the radiation from the sun.
It is known that the sun is a variable star whose radiation varies from time to time as much as ten per cent.
These solar variations affect the pressure in the subTropical region and the variations in the pressures in the subTropical region in turn affect atmospheric pressures the earth over determining the path of storms and clear weather phenomena and also general climatic effects such as excessive rains droughts hot and cold summers and their contraries.
The following were ordered printed  1906.
431
