NEW AND LITTLEKNOWN WHELKS FROM NORTHERN JAPAN AND THE KURIL ISLANDS BY H. A. PILSBRY.
Volutopsius hirasei n. sp.
PI.
XIX fig.
2.
The shell is fusiform thick and solid glossy where unworn livid under a very thin smooth transparent cuticle which however is largely worn from the type.
Whorls 6 strongly convex separated by deep sutures.
Surface sculptured with low spiral threads rather close and fine below the suture widely spaced in the median part of the last whorl becoming close on the base and coarser on the anterior narrow portion.
The aperture is livid brownish within outer hp expanded white thin at the edge.
The columella is weakly sinuous covered with a white callus.
There is also a small but rather thick callus near the posterior angle of the aperture.
A thin transparent callus spreads forward on the parietal wall.
Length 72 diam.
34 mm.
 length of aperture 42 mm.
Kisennuma Rikuzen.
Tje No.
93443 A. N. S. P. from Xo.
1312 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species is related to V. regularis Dall but differs by the longer basal canal and the sculptured surface V. regularis being smooth.
Beringius polynematicus n. sp. PI.
XIX fig.
1.
Shell closely resembhng B. frielei Dall large thin dirty white under a strong brown cuticle mainly worn from the type a dead shell.
Sculpture of shallow spiral grooves about 2 mm.
apart on the last whorl not much more than half that on the penultimate the spaces between these grooves slightly convex and sculptured with five or six irregular spiral threads on the last whorl fig.
1 about four on the penultimate.
Six and onehalf strongly convex whorls remain the apex being defective.
The aperture is wide the outer lip smooth within thin basal canal quite short.
Columella very weakly sigmoid  callus on the inner margin thin not spreading forward.
Length 140 diam.
59 mm.
 length of the aperture 64 mm.
Kisennuma Rikuzen.
Type Xo.
93444 A. X. S. P. from Xo.
1760 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
 Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1894 p. 711 pi.
27 fig.
8 from Bering Sea.
Only two specimens of this fine species were found.
It is closely related to B. fnelei Dall but differs in the finer sculpture that species having spiral threads in pairs while in this there are invariably several threads grouped on the convex intervals between deeper spiral grooves .
Beringius schantaricus Midd.
is a smaller species 7277 mm.
long with stronger external sculpture and spiral sulci within the mouth.
B. turtoni Bean is a species with internally smooth outer lip but it differs notably in the shape of the spire.
The genus Beringius has also been known as Jumala and Ukko
both later generic terms.
Bucoinum inolytum Pilsbry.
PI.
XX fig.
i.
Buccinum inclitum
Pils. Nautilus XIII p. 87.
A species of the B. glaciale group of tiuriteconic shape rather solid and heavy composed of about 8 convex and somewhat angular whorls.
The shell is white with a few small brown spots under a very thin pale buff cuticle.
The apex has been lost and the first two whorls are somewhat worn.
The next two whorls have a strong cordlike keel below the middle a smaller spiral rib below it while above it the surface is flattened and sloping the whole covered with fine spiral threads.
Another spiral rib then gradually arises above the peripheral one so that all the rest of the whorls of the spire have three strong rounded cord like spirals all rendered irregularly nodose by rather close longitudinal waves which radiate from the suture.
The last whorl is very convex with a group of four strongly raised rounded spiral ribs two below and one above the slightly larger peripheral spiral.
The rest of the surface and the intervals between the ribs are sculptured with much smaller spiral cords and there is also a very minute sculpture of fine spiral threads over the ribs and cords.
The rather small aperture is white in the throat becoming ochretinted near the lip and on the columella.
The outer lip is slightly expanded and sulcate within and it is slightly retracted above.
The columella is weakly biplicate.
Length 82 diam.
47 mm.
 length of the aperture 40 mm.
Etoro Chishima.
Type No.
88768 A. N. S. P. from No.
1.704 of Mr Hirase's collection.
This noble Buccinum has some resemblance to B. carinatum Dkr.
and B. verkriizeni Kob. but differs from both in its more numerous closer and more emphatic spiral ribs.
In the original notice in the Nautilus the name was printed inclitum by oversight.
Buccinum unicum Pils.
PI.
XX fig.
7.
Described in these Proceedings for 1905. p. 102.
This peculiar form from Kisenmima Rikuzen is related to B. viridumDall. from off California in deep water and also known from Bering Sea but it differs from that in the minute sculpture.
It is also a somewhat larger and less inflated shell than B. viridum
Buccinum middendorffi Verkruzen.
PI.
XIX fig.
4 pi.
XX fig.
4.
B. middcndoriji Verk. Jahrb.
Mai.
Ges. IX p. 213 1882.
Kobclt Concliyl.
Cab. Buccinum p. 76 pi.
89 fig.
2.
A specimen from Akkeshi Kushiro is figured.
It measures length 69 diameter 44 mm.
The spire is dull reddish brown fading on the last whorl to rusty cream color.
The aperture is brownish yellow within becoming dull reddish deep in the throat the columella and inner lip largely piue white but with some j'cllow stain in the middle.
The sculpture of coarse waves reminds one of B. undatum.
On the last whorl there is a spiral sculpture of unevenly spaced low spiral threads and shallow grooves at intervals the whole covered with very close fine decurrent waxy spiral lines.
On the penultimate whorl the spaced grooves run in pairs and the finer sculpture is less distinct.
The next earlier whorl has low spiral cords and the preceding two have a sculpture of about 6 spiral cords running over slightly arcuate longitudinal rounded ribs somewhat as in a Latirus.
The apex is worn.
While this example has much resemblance to Kobelt's figures of B. Uschkeanum Lob. yet it seems referable to B. middendorfji.
Buccinum mirandum SmiUi.
PL XIX fig.
5  pi.
XX fig.
5.
The figures represent an example agreeing well with Kobelt's figure of the type except that the longitudinal waves are almost obsolete.
It is white with a creamy or brownish tint and somewhat profusely maculate wdth rusty brown.
The last whorl has 5 spiral ribs the upper one weakly nodose the others hardly perceptibly so.
It is strongly puckered below the suture.
The surface is finely and very closely engraved with minute clearcut spiral lines mingled with coarser ones.
Length 45.5 diameter 28.5 mm.
Another example pi.
19 fig.
3 pi.
20 fig.
3 from Akkeshi Kushiro has the primary spiral ribs much smaller the secondary threads larger the same minute engraved lines being present.
The whorls are also obliquely waved above the periphery.
The lip is white but the interior of the aperture is brownish ochraceous.
Length 48 diameter 30 mm.
 Proc.
U. S. Xat.
Mus. XII 1889 p. 320 pi.
6 fig.
9.
ALso Keep West Ainericnn Shells p. 172'fig.
165.
17 Buccinum mirandum var.
schrenkii Verkruzen.
PI.
XIX fi.'.
6 pi.
XX fig.
6.
The example figured occurred with B. mirandum fig.
5.
It differs from that chiefly by the total absence of spiral ribs.
The minute sculpture is the same.
The whole shell is dull reddish brown the thick lip and the columella white.
The surface is puckered below the suture as in B. mirandum.
Length 48 diameter 30 mm.
Purpura freycineti alabaster n. subsp.
PI.
XX fig.
2.
The shell is large thick and heavy dull ashy white externally.
The spire is very short the last whorl ample.
Sculpture of coarse widespaced ribs the largest at the shoulder regularly diminishing downwards about 8 on the last whorl one on the penultimate two on the preceding whorls of the spire.
There are also some coarse spaced ridges along growthlines.
The aperture is pure white the bevelled lip a little grooved at the positions of the external ribs.
The wide columella is slightly flattened.
Siphonal fasciole prominent.
Length 56 diameter 38 mm.
Kunajiri or Kunashiri Chishima.
Type No.
88304 A. N. tS.
P. from No.
1591 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This large and ponderous Purpura is very imlike the typical P. freycineti which is a common species of Kamchatka and the Kuril Islands but it has some resemblance to certain forms of that species figured by Lischke J. M. C pi.
4 figs.
1619 and I have thought it Iest to subordinate alabaster to the common form of the region until extensive collections can demonstrate its true status.
Explanation of Plates XIX and XX Plate XIX. Fig.
1.
 Beringius polynematicus n. sp.
Type.
Fig.
2.
 Volutopsius hirasei n. sp.
Tjpe.
Fig.
3.
 Buccinum mirandum Smith.
Variety from Akkeslii Kushiro.
Fig.
4.
 Buccinum middendorffi Verkruzen.
Variety   Fig.
5.
 Buccinum.
miranduvi Smith.
Strongly ribbed form.
Fig.
6.
 Buccinum mirandum schrenkii Verkruzen.
Plate XX.
 Fig.
1.
 Buccinum inclytum Pilsbry.
Tje.
Fig.
2.
 Purpura freycineti alabaster n. subsp.
Type.
Fig.
3.
 Buccinum mirandum.
Akkeshi Kushiro.
Fig.
4.
 Buccinum middendorffi Verk.
Variety.
Fig.
5.
 Buccinum mirandum Smith.
Strongly ribbed form.
Fig.
6.
 Buccinum unicum Pilsbry.
Type.
NOTES ON THE LEAF HAIRS OF LESQUEKELLA.'
BY E. G. YAXATTA.
The hairs of the leaves of Lfsgucrctt are usually described in botanical works as stellate.
So far as I know it has not been noticed that the forms vary in different species.
These differences may become an important feature for the determination of the species.
The ninnbcr of rays of these stellate hairs is variable but the form of the rays and their manner of branching are more constant although some hairs of the compound forms often have one or more raj's simile.
By the shape of the hairs the species of Lesquerclla which 1 have examined fall into five groups as follows Group I.
 Hair a simple fewrayed star.
PL XXI fig.
1 X 60.
L. argyrca Gray.
Flora Texas Exsic.
329 Fasc.
Ill leg.
T. Lindhcimer 1S46.
Group II.
Hair a fewrayed star each ray normally bifid.
PI.
XXI fig.
3 X 60.
L. argentea Wats.
Laramie University Campus Wyoming.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
No.
523700.
Fig.
2 X 60.
L. globosa Dr.
Rising Sun Bluff Cimiberland River fourteen miles below Nashville Tenn.
Fig.
4 X 60.
L. gracilis Hook.
Mesa near Tucson Arizona.
E. Pringle April 12.
B.
Smith.
Fig.
5 X 60.
L. hidoviciana Wats.
Laramie Wyoming Flora Wyoming 190.
C. Nelson 1894.
Fig.
8 X 60.
L. montona Gray.
Table Mountain.
Wyoming Flora  Wyoming 88.
A. Nelson.
Fig.
9 X 60.
L. recurvata Engl.
Kerrville Texas.
A. Heller 1657.
Group III.
Each ray of star normally twice bifid.
PI.
XXL fig.
10 X 60.
L. alpina Wats.
New Mexico.
A. Fendler 1847.
Fig.
13 X 60.
L. arctica Wats.
Itibla Whale Sound McCormiek Bay Greenland.
A. Heilprin 1891.
Fig.
11 X 100 and fig.
17 X 60.
L. didymocar pa Book.
Wagon Wlieel Gap Colorado.
B. Smith July 16 1882.
Fig.
15 X 60.
L. douglasi Wats.
Klickitat County Washington.
B. Smith Sukodorf.
Fig.
6 X 60.
L. lindheimeri Berl.
Texas and Mexico.
Herb.
Berl. 1439 Short Herb.
Fig.
7 X 60 and fig.
14 X 100.
L. nuttalli Gr.
Arkansas Nuttall.
Fig.
18 X 60.
L. occidentalis Wats.
White Bluff Columbia River Washington 635 Brandiger 1883.
Group IV.
Hair a manyrayed star often with a web between the rays.
PI.
XXI fig.
12 X 60.
L. berlandieri Gray.
Circa Matamoras Texas.
Herb.
Borland Texas and Mexico April 1831 Short Herb.
Fig.
16 X 60.
L. jendleri Gr.
Sierra Madre forty miles south of Saltillo Mexico.
Dr. E. Palmer.
Fig.
19 X 60 and fig.
20 X 100.
L. lepidata Rose.
Near Tula 6800 feet Mexico.
C. Pringle 6899.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
No.
506384.
Fig.
22 X 60.
L. purpurea Gray.
Santa Catalina Mountains Arizona.
C. Pringle 1883.
Fig.
23 X 100 and fig.
25 X 60.
L. schaffneri Wats.
San Luis Potosi Mexico.
Ex.
Herb.
Gray.
Fig.
21 X 60 and fig.
26 X 60.
L. stenophyUa Gr.
humilis.
Pecos Texas.
C. Wright 1881.
No.
852.
Fig.
24 X 60.
L. StenophyUa Grsiy proccra.
Turkey Creek Texas.
850.
C. Wright.
Group V. Hair a fewrayed star which looks as if one ray was omitted.
PI.
XXI Fig.
27 X 60.
L. densiflora Gray.
Flora.
Texas.
Exsic.
328 Fasc.
III.
F. Lindheimer 1846 Short Herb.
Fig.
28 X 60.
L. grandiflora Hk.
Victoria Texas Flora.
Texas Exsic.
Dr. Engelmann 1846.
Fig.
24 X 60.
L. engelmanni Gr.
Texas.
Fendler 1846.
All the specimens figured are mounted in Canada balsam in the herbarimii of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
NOTES ON SERRANIDE. BY HENRY AV.
FOWLER The material on which this paper is based is all contained in the collections of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
PERCICHTHYIN.E.
Percichthys melanops Girard.
No.
22892 A. N. S. P. Cotype.
Perciohthys trucha Valenciennes.
Argentina.
Recently reported by Drs.
Evermann and Kendall.
PARALABRACIN.E.
Maxillary with a supplemental bone.
Tongue smooth.
Gillrakers long and slender.
Scales verj small.
Dorsals 2 connected at base XIXIII III 1214.
Anal spines III well developed.
Ventrals inserted behind bases of pectorals.
The only genus examined seems to be Percalahrax Schlegel Fauna Japonica Poiss. I 1842 p. 2 type Labrax japonicus Cuvier only species which has priority over Lateolahrax Bleeker Verh.
Batav.
Gemot.
Nalez.
Ich.
Jap.
 XXVI 1854 pp.
4 53 type Labrax japonicus Cuvier only species.
Percalabrax japonicus Cuvier.
Tsuruga Japan D. S. Jordan and J.
0.
Snyder.
MORONINE.
Boocus chrysops Rafinosque.
Southern Illinois R. Kennicott.
Rocous lineatus Bloch.
Trenton N. J. Sing Sing N. Y.
S. F. Baird Chestertown Md.
E. G. Vanatta  Connecticut River Smiths.
Inst.
 North Carolina
E. D. Cope.
Labrax labrax Linnaeus.
Italy Bonaparte Coll..
Labrax Klein in Walbaum Pd.
Arted.
Gen. Pise 1792 p. 584 type Perca lahrax Linnaeus understood by tautonomy has priority over Dicentrarchus Gill Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila. 1860 pp.
109 111 type Perca elongata Geoff roy St. Hilaire  Perca lahrax Linnaeus specified.
CHRYSOPERCA subgen.
nov.
Type Morone interrupta Gill.
Dorsal fins slightly connected spines robust and longest somewhat more than half of head.
Color brassyyellow with about 7 distinct longitudinal lines interrupted posteriorly.
Related to subgenus Morone Mitchill which has shorter fins well connected spines moderate and shorter and coloration more silvery.
Xpuaoj gold Tipyii perch.
Morone interrupta Gill.
Two examples probably cot5'pes
 from the Smiths.
Inst.
Both would agree wuth Dr. Gill's statement concerning the anal spines the second of which is about equal to the third.
Wabash River Indiana E. D. Cope.
Morone amerioana Gmelin.
Newport R. I.
Dr. W. Gibson  Bayport Fla. E. D. Cope Mount Desert Me.
Dr. H. C. Chapman Boston Harbor Mass.
Dr. J. H. Slack Potomac River Smiths.
Inst.
 New York Harbor T. Norris.
LIOPROPOMIN.E.
Labraoopsis japonicus Steindachner.
Yokohama Japan D. S. Jordan and J.
0.
Snjder.
CENTROGENIIX.E.
To replace Myriodontinoe Myriodon preoccupied.
Centrogenys vaigiensis Quoyiid Gaimard.
Singapore Malacca Dr. J.
B. McCartee.
POLYPRIONIN.E.
Stereolepis gigas Ayres.
Fig.
1.
Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. II 1858 p. 28. 
Type No.
32753 A. N. S. P. Bay of San Francisco.
Head 3 depth 3JD. XI 9 P. 17 scales in lateral line to base of caudal about 77
squamation damaged  about 120
scales in a lateral series to base of caudal along lateral line above about 16
scales between origin of spinous dorsal and lateral line about 27
scales in a vertical series between origin of anal and lateral line wndth of head 1907.
251 nlut If ill its length snout nearly 3 eye about 9 maxillary 2 interorbital space 3 second dorsal spine 6 third dorsal ray 3 third anal spine 4 second anal ray 3 upper caudal lobe 1 least depth of caudal peduncle 3f  pectoral 2 ventral 2f .
A slight median predorsal keel.
Snout about half as long as wide.
Eye a little longer than deep and placed near first third in head.
Upper jaw slightly protruding.
Lips thick.
Distal expansion of maxillary about half of orbit.
Nostrils close together similar.
Interorbital space broad and somewhat convex.
Edges of bones on head entire.
About 13 rows of scales on cheek.
Lateral line on 1 or more alternate scales in its course concurrent with dorsal profile and also extending out on base of caudal.
'.
lUXSii Fig.
1.
 Stereolepis gigas Ayres.
Cbtype
Spinous dorsal inserted a little behind origin of ventral.
Rayed dorsal begins well in front of anal or much nearer origin of pectoral than base of caudal.
Spinous anal inserted about opposite base of third dorsal ray spines slender and second longest.
Caudal slightly marginate.
Pectoral reaches about half way to origin of rayed dorsal.
Ventral reaches  of space to anal.
Color of dried skin more or less uniform brownish.
Length 6 feet 2 inches.
In the original account 2 examples are mentioned one taken in 1857 which measured 5 feet 8 inches and the other in 1859 which was 7 feet long.
Allowing for shrinkage in the above example it is more likely the latter.
This was stated to have weighed 360 pounds.
ATes gives D. IX A.
Ill 8 P. 19 and other discrepancies which may possibly be explained by the preparation of the specimen as a dried skin typographical errors etc.
Polyprion americanum Schneider.
Italy Bonaparte Coll..
SERRANIN.E.
To replace Epinephelinoe.
Fetrometopon cruentatum LacpJde.
Viequas Porto Rico U. S. F. C.
Fetrometopon cruentatum coronatum Valenciennes.
New Providence Bahamas Dr. H. C. Wood.
Cephalopholis argus Schneider.
Recorded by me as Bodianus guttatus in Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1899 p. 485 from Thornton Islands C. D. Voy.
Apia Samoan Islands D. S. Jordan.
Cephalopholis fulvus Linnceus.
New Providence Bahamas Dr. H. C. Wood  San Domingo West Indies Prof. W. M. Gabb Bermuda Islands Prof. A. Heilprin.
Cephalopholis fulvus ouatalibi Valenciennes.
New Providence Bahamas E. Tatnall Dr. H. C. Wood San Domingo Prof. W. M. Gabb St. Croix Capt.
T. Davidson Dr. R. E. Griffith and St. Kitts B. H. Lightfoot Bermuda Islands Prof. A. Heilprin.
The Sumatran species I recorded in 1904 under Bodianus should now stand as Cephalopholis aurantius indelehiUs C. miniatus and C. rogaa.
Serranus alexandrinus Valenciennes.
Beirut Syria.
Serranus Cuvier Regne Animal II 1817 p. 276 type Perca gigas Briinnich first species  Labrus guaza Linnaeus is the first name available for the fishes of this genus as the first species under Epinephelus Bloch and therefore its type is an Alphestes.
Daba Forskal Descript.
Animal. 1775 p. 44 type Perca areolata Forskal understood from the Arabic vernacular is uncertain.
Serranus maoulosus Valenciennes.
New Providence Bahamas Dr. H. C. Wood  San Domingo Prof. W. M. Gabb  St. Martin's Dr. R. E. van Rijgersma  St. Thomas Henry Warrington  St. Kitts B. H. Lightfoot.
Serranus flavolimbatus Poey.
San Domingo Prof. W. M. Gabb.
Serranus niveatus Valenciennes.
Newport R. I.
Samuel Powell Katama Bay Martha's Vineyard.
Mass.
Dr. H. M. Smith.
Serranus quernus Scale.
Honolulu H. I.
Dr. T. D. Wood.
Serranus guaza Linnaus.
Italy Bonaparte Coll.
 Beirut Syria.
Serranus guaza mentzelii Valenciennes.
Epincphclus bracfnsoma Cope Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. 2 XIV 1871 p. 4GG.
type No.
13372 A. N. 8.
P. Rio Janeiro Brazil.
Dr. W. S. W. lluscheiibergcr.
Head 2 depth 2y scales 103 in lateral line to base of caudal and about 10 more out on latter tubes about 64 in lateral line to base of caudal and 8 more on latter 15 scales in a vertical series between origin of rayed dorsal and lateral line 22 scales in a vertical series between origin of spinous anal and lateral line  width of head 2 in its length fourth dorsal spine 2i eleventh dorsal ray 2 second anal spine 3 fifth anal ray 2 least depth of caudal peduncle 3f  caudal If pectoral 1 ventral 1 snout 4f in head measured from tip of snout eye 5 maxillary 2j interorbital space 7.
Body oblong compressed.
Head elongate profiles similar.
Snout a little broader than long.
Eye a little longer than deep high and near first third of head.
Mouth inclined and mandible protruding.
Maxillary reaches nearly opposite posterior margin of eye and its expansion about f of same.
Teeth in bands in jaws sharp conic and canines iInner mandibular series and upper inner teeth depressible.
Fine teeth on vomer and palatines.
Tongue long and free.
Nostrils close Interorbital space a little convex flattened medianly.
Preopercular margin finely serrated posteriorly serrae increasing in size toward angle.
Median opercular spine largest most posterior and nearer lower.
Gillrakers vi 2  12 iii and a trifle less than filaments which are 7of eye.
About 32 irregular series of scales on cheek.
Tubes in lateral line simple.
Spinous dorsal inserted about midway between origin of rayed dorsal and tip of snout.
Rayed dorsal inserted about midway between base jof third dorsal spine and base of caudal posterior rays longest and edge of fin rounded.
Spinous anal inserted about midway between origin of ventral and base of caudal second spine robust and longest and third slender and but little shorter.
Rayed anal rounded and its base about If in its lieight.
Vent near last fifth in space between ventral and anal.
Color in alcohol more or less uniform brown generally.
Margins of fins more or less duskybrown and this color sharplcontrasting on rayed dorsal and anal with paler basal color.
On diLsky area of caudal distally 2 pale or whitish spots about median rays.
Pectorals brownish Avith narrow pale edge.
Side of body with obscure whitish flakes of various sizes.
A dusky streak back from end of maxillary above and below this a whitish streak.
Iris warm brownish.
Length 7 inches.
Type.
I retain Serrcuius mentzelii Valenciennes for this fish as I have not compared any examples of corresponding size of Lahrus guaza Linnaeus.
Cope states the length of his type as 8 inches.
Serranus labriformis Jenyns.
Epinephelus ordinatus Cope Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Pliila. 2 XIV 1871 p. 466.
Type No.
13457 A. N. S. P. Panama.
Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger.
Head 2 depth Sy scales about 100
squamation injured counted along lateral line to base of caudal and about 10 more somewhat enlarged on latter about 46 pores in lateral line to base of caudal about 12 scales in a vertical series between origin of rayed dorsal and lateral line 33 scales in a vertical series between origin of spinous anal and lateral line width of head 2f in its length third dorsal spine 3f  sixth dorsal ray 2 second anal spine 3 third anal ray 2 least depth of caudal peduncle 3f caudal If pectoral If ventral 2 snout 5 in head measured from tip of upper jaw eye 4 maxillary 2A interorbital space 9.
Body elongate.
Head compressed.
Length of snout about 1 in its width.
Eye a little longer than deep and placed about first third in its length.
Mandille protruding a little in front.
Maxillary reaching a trifle behind posterior margin of eye with narrow supplemental bone and its distal expansion half of eye horizontally.
Narrow bands of teeth in jaws inner in front of upper a little elongate and depressible.
An inner series of rather enlarged depressible mandibular teeth and at first teeth irregularly triserial and then becoming biserial on posterior portions of rami.
Canines small  a little curved.
Small vomerine and palatine teeth.
Tongue slender smooth and free.
Nostrils close.
Lower preopercular margin entire.
Interorbital space narrow flat and slightly depressed in front.
Median opercular spine most posterior uppermost anterior and median about midway between upper and lower.
Gillrakers VI 2  11 VI larger than filaments and about 2 in eye.
Scales finely ctenoid and about 24 series on cheek.
Maxillary naked.
Tubes in lateral line simple.
Spinous dorsal inserted nearly midway between tip of mandible and origin of rayed dorsal and spines graduated down from third and fourth which are subequally longest.
Rayed dorsal inserted a little nearer base of caudal than origin of spinous fin rounded.
Spinous anal inserted nearer origin of pectoral than base of caudal second spine longest and third subequal.
Color in alcohol dull pale lrown head and trunk blotched ith a number of scattered or grayishwhite Hakes of uneven size thouoh all smaller than iipil and with a number of obscure deep brownish mottlings scattered about between.
Lower surface of head and body scarcely paler fr more grayish.
Fins pale brownish like general bodycolor margin of spinous dorsal a little deeper brown and also its base with deep shades about third to seventh and tenth to third dorsal rays.
Outer or submarginal portions of other fins deeper brownish than otherwise.
Edges of rayed fins narrowly whitish.
Pectoral and ventral duskybrownish pale basally.
A large dusky saddle on caudal peduncle above.
Iris slatygray.
Length 5h inches.
Type of Epincphelus ordinatus Cope.
Tower Island Galapagos R. E. Snodgrass and E. C. Heller.
Serranus striatus i isloch.
New Providence Bahamas Dr. H. C. Wood St. Croix Dr. R. E. Griffith  no locality Dr. A. L. Heermann  San Antonio Bridge and Puerto Real Porto Rico U. S. F. C.
Serranus morio Valenciennes.
Key West Fla. Dr. Murray.
Serranus merra Bloch.
Thornton Island south Pacific Ocean C. D. A'oy Apia Samoa D. S. .Jordan.
fiJ''iM Fig.
2.
 Serranus phccostigmcEus Fowler.
Type.
Serranus pliaeostigmaeus .p.
nov.
Fig.
2.
Eiiieiili'his luscoguttatiis Fowler Proc.
Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
Pliila. 1900 p. .502.
Sandwich Islands.
Dr. .1.
K. Townsend.
Probably not of Forskal.
Head 2   depth 3  D. XI IG i  A. I II 8 i  P. 18  V. 1 5  scales about 102 in lateral line to base of caudal and 6 more on latter tubes 61 in lateral line to base of caudal and about 5 more on latter 14 scales in a vertical series between origin of rayed dorsal and lateral line  about 20 scales between origin of spinous dorsal and lateral line in a vertical series width of head 2 in its length depth of head If mandible 1 a  6  fourth dorsal spine 3 eleventh dorsal ray 2f  third anal spine 3o seventh anal ray 3 caudal If least depth of caudal peduncle 3 pectoral If ventral 2 ventral spine 3 snout 5 in head measured from tip of snout eye 7 maxillary 2yo  interorbital space 5.
Body robust elongate compressed profiles rather evenly and similarly convex so that contour is somewhat fusiform and greatest depth at base of fifth dorsal spine.
Edges of body rounded chest broadly so.
Caudal peduncle compressed and least depth about f its length.
Head large robust slightly compressed and with greatest width swollen below.
Upper profile more inclined than lower nearh straight and but slightly concave over eye.
Snout convex its length about half its width.
Eye a little longer than deep rounded high and near first quarter in length of head.
Mouth inclined obliquely and broad mandible protruding a little in front.
Lips a little broad and fleshy.
Maxillary well exposed reaching about f an eyediameter beyond eye and its expansion about I of horizontal orbital diameter.
Bands of rather small fine teeth in jaws a few caninelike in front of upper and along rami of lower posteriorly.
Rami of mandible not elevated inside of mouth.
Bands of minute teeth on vomer and palatines.
Buccal membranes broad in mouth.
Tongue broad rounded and a little free.
Nostrils close together on side of snout above front of eye anterior with a tube ending in a cutaneous flap posteriorly.
Posterior nostril midway between anterior and upper front of eye.
Preorbital narrow its width about f horizontal orbital diameter.
Preopercular margin convex posteriorly that edge finely serrated and about 3 large denticles at corner.
Opercular spines 3 median largest and closer to lower also a little posterior.
Gillopening extending forward opposite front of orbit and uppermost margin horizontal.
Gillrakers vi 3  8 vi clavate and longest half of orbit or same of gillfilaments.
Gillfilaments  of horizontal orbital diameter.
Pseudobranchiffi about f of filaments.
Isthmus broad bevelled in front and broadly keeled posteriorly.
Scales all rather finely ctenoid largest on opercle and middle of side and very small and reduced along edges of body especially predorsal region and chest.
On predorsal region and cheek above scales more or less truncate.
Scales disposed over trunk in more or less longitudinal series and somewhat inclined posteriorly also extending over lateral line.
Iinutc scales on bases of all fins.
Axil of pectoral with a pit covered by a scaly flap above.
About 28 scales on cheek.
Head almost scaly everywhere except on lips and maxillary.
Lateral line of slitrhtly arborescent tubes and concurrent with dorsal profile till out in middle of base of caudal.
Spinous dorsal inserted about midway between front of eye and origin of rayed dorsal graduated from fourth spine which is longest and margin of fin deeply notched so that cutaneous points occur behind tip of each spine.
Rayed dorsal inserted midway between origin of spinous fin and base of caudal fin rounded and posterior rays a little longest.
Spinous anal inserted nearer base of caudal than origin of ventral and graduated to third spine which is longest.
Rayed anal with posterior rays longest and fin rounded.
Caudal rounded.
Pectoral broadly expanded inserted before dorsal and reaching f of space to spinous anal.
Ventral inserted just behind base of pectoral and reaching 4 of space to spinous anal but not so far posteriorly as tip of pectoral 'entral spine i length of fin.
Vent midway between tip of ventral and origin of spinous anal.
Color in alcohol dull drab generally lower or under regions not paler.
Head and body with obscure spots almost everywhere of vandykebrown not sharply defined but most intense in color in center about size of pupil and disposed over body and all fins alike.
Fins brownish like general bodycolor not especially pale marginally but with deepest color basally.
Iris dull brownish with a narrow golden circle around pupil.
Length 8h inches.
Type No.
13463 A. N. S. P. Hawaiian Islands.
Dr. J. K. Townsend.
This fish was originally identified by me with Perca summana var.
juscoguttata Forskal a species to which it is certainly closely related.
Serranus Epinephelus dictyophorus Steindachner Sitz.
Ak.
Wiss.
Wien C ii 1893 p. 219 from Honolulu differs apparently according to Dr. Steindachner's excellent description in the deep body narrower interorbital space other proportions etc.
'Potdg brown rriyij'i spot.
Other species examined are Serranus heniochus S. maculatus S. sexfasciatus S. megachir S. dermochirus  S. Jwrridus and S. lanceolatus all from Sumatra and which I formerly included under Epinephelus.
Garrupa nigrita Holbrook.
terranus nigrilus Holbrook Ichth.
S.
Car. IS.oo p. 178 PI.
2.5 fig.
2.
Type No.
13468 A. X. S. P. Charleston S. C. Dr. .J.
E. IIollrook.
This example is 16 inches long caudal damaged though Holbrook states that the total length is 2 feet.
However the original label indicates this as the type together with the locality as Charleston.
Holbrook also says that the caudal was somewhat mutilated in the only example he ever saw.
Color in alcohol of young deep chocolatebrown generally.
Dorsals anals and ventrals inclining to slaty or livid blackish.
Margin of rayed dorsal broadly and rayed anal more narrowly becoming pale brownish and then whitish along edges.
Caudal and pectoral white latter chocolatebrown at base.
Lower surface of head and jaws tinted with dull broMi.
Iris slaty.
Length 3 inches.
Katama Bay Martha's Vineyard Mass.
Dr. H. M. Smith.
Epinephelus chloropterus Cmier.
St. Martin's Dr. R. E. van Rijgersma.
Prof. Peters long ago examined Bloch's type of Epinephelus afer and found it identical with Plectropoma chloropterum.
Provisionally as Bloch's fish is said to have come from West Africa I allow Cu'ier's name to stand for the American fish.
Epinephelus Bloch Nat.
Ausl.
Fisch. VH X 1793 p. 11 type Epinephelus afer Bloch first species has priority over psr6t Schneider Syst.
Ich.
Bloch 1801 p. 236 type Epinephelus afer Bloch first species .
Epinephelus lightfooti p.
nov.
Fig.
3.
Head 2 depth 2 D. XI 18 i A.
Ill 9 i P. i 16 V. 15 scales about 70 in lateral line to base of caudal and about 10 more rather enlarged on latter 12 scales in a vertical series between origin of rayed dorsal and lateral line 26 scales in a vertical series between origin of spinous anal and lateral line pores about 61 in lateral line to base of caudal and about 5 more on latter  width of head 2 in its length  depth of head over posterior margin of orbit 1 mandible 2 third dorsal spine 2 third dorsal ray 2 third anal spine 2 third anal ray 2  least depth of caudal peduncle 3f  caudal 1  pectoral 1  ventral 1  snout 5 in head measured from tip of upper jaw eye 4 maxillary 2j interorbital space 8.
Body elongate compressed rather ellipsoid with evenly convergent convex profiles both in front and behind back a little elevated and greatest depth about base of fourth dorsal spine.
Edges of body rounded.
Caudal peduncle compressed and its length about L in its least depth.
Head compressed rather elongate upper profile nearly straight to predorsal region and a trifle more inclined than lower.
Snout convex 1907.
2o and its length about f its width.
Eye circular high or touching ujpcr profile rounded and about first third in length of head.
Mouth rather large oblique and mandible protruding.
Maxillary exposed reaching middle tf orbit and its distal expansion 2 in latter.
Supplemental maxillary narrow.
I.ips rather thin.
Teeth fine pointed in bantls in jaws some of inner anterior upper and inner series of lower a little enlarged and depressible.
Iandibular teeth mostly biserial along sides.
A pair oi small curved canines in front of each jaw and mandibular close set.
Fine teeth on omer and palatines.
Tongue elongate slenderly attenuate smooth and free.
Nostrils close together on side of snout above front rim of eye.
y  f Pig.
3.
 Epinephelus Ughtfooti Fowler.
Type.
and of about equal size.
Interorbital space flattened with a slight depression in front.
largin of preorbital entire slightly undulate.
Posterior preopercular margin serrate serra enlarging towards angle which ends in a forwardly directed enlarged spine and lower edge entire or but slightly roughened.
Opercular spines 3 upper and median opposite though latter largest and nearer lowest which is anterior.
Gillopening extending forward opposite midtlle of eye.
Gillrakers lanceolate 7  15 equal to filaments or about 2.V in eye.
Pseudobranchiae a little less than filaments.
Isthmus narrowly convergent and with a median groove.
Branchiostegals 7.
Scales smooth cycloid largest on opercle and side and extending in slightly A'ay longitudinal series crossing lateral line posteriorly.
Small scales on bases of tins especially vertical ones.
Head largely scaly except intermandibnlar region lips and maxillary.
Scales on cheek in 17 series.
A broad scaly flap over axil of pectoral which has a pit.
Lateral hne of small simple tubes more or less concurrent with dorsal profile though rather abruptly convex at summit and nmning a little high along side of caudal peduncle.
Spinous dorsal inserted midway between tip of mandible and origin of rayed dorsal and spmes graduated down from thuxi and fourth which are subequally longest with margin of fin a little notched between each.
Origin of rayed dorsal falling nearly midway between that of spinous fin and base of caudal anteromedian rays longest and edge of fui rounded.
Spmous anal mserted a little nearer origin of pectoral than base of caudal and second and third spines subequal much longer than fiist.
Rayed anal similar to rayed dorsal onhsmaller.
Caudal romided.
Pectoral rounded and reaching i of space to spinous anal.
S'entral inserted behind base of pectoral reaching i of space to origin of spinous anal and spine 1 in fui.
A'ent in last third of postventral space just before tips of depressed ventrals.
Color in alcohol pale or dull tawnybrown with traces of darker or deeper broTiish longitudinal streaks over sides and these slightl' inclmed on back to extend out on bases of dorsals.
Some similar colored bars or streaks indistinctly on head.
Rayed dorsal pale brownish on outer portion and on caudal a trifle darker.
Anal deep brownish like general bodycolor.
Pectoral very pale broTSTiish with about 4 deep brown transverse bands.
N'entral pale brownish basally and becommg duslabrown distally.
Under smface of head and abdomen scarcely paler than sides.
Ii'is slaty.
Length 4 inches.
Tpe Xo.
16.514.
A. X. S. P. San Domingo.
West Indies.
Prof. William M. Gabb.
The single example described above differs from E. chloropterus cliiefly in coloration the pectoral having but 3 dark transverse bands while in the latter there are S or 9.
They are shown by MM.
'aillant and Bocourt.
in Miss.
Sci.
Mex.. Poiss.. 1S75.
p. 107.
PI.
5. fig.
3 ac as rather large sparse pale brown blotches.
Xamed for Benjamin H. Lightfoot who collected fishes at St. Kitts West Indies. Mycteroperca venenosa apua BlochV St.
Martin's.
W. I.
Dr.
R. E. van Rijgersma  St. Croix.
W. I.
Dt.
r' E.Griffith.
Zz'.
'.zMLii ouilirKv.
C Amer.
Ptffce.
Soc.
P.. .
I'' 17i.p.
465.
Trpe.
N.
.  .i.
X. S. P. ScMvtBS  Dr. R. .
ran KjeeremA.
laterrdcal series S4 scales in a anal rar 2 eau'ial 1 least depth of eaodaJ.
peiTniie 2 Tjexal li H  .
 .
. .
. . Hrii  irrresed.
rt Sootrt Mit.
eosivex.
Eve a iLl reicLins poe.
ipiL and its dktal er   ere.
teeth in frcr i.
A it 2 irres'ilar series clngto loTra.
th  DOeterior.
GiUrakas m. 13  32. iel    r in '2o 5ies of 5 Tubes in lats linje sinrie.
Tvrifyr.ii iI insertei i'ESS STUsh.
Irs
alvery .
v.
LTtc.
4 262 June the preceding a little in the fins scales etc. and therefore it may provisionally be retained as a distinct form until satisfactory comparisons can be made.
CENTROPRISTIN.
To replace Serraninoe as Serranus replaces Epinephelus.
Hypoplectrus unicolor crocotus Cope.
Fig.
4.
Plectropoma crocota Cope Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. 2 XIV 171 p. 466.
CotTes Nos.
13291 type and 13292 A. N. S. P. St. Martin's West Indies.
Dr. R. E. van Rijgersma.
Width of head 2 in its length interorbital space 5 in head measmed from tip of upper jaw.
Body compressed and edges rounded.
Caudal peduncle compressed.
Head compressed also snout and sides a little flattened and its width about  its length.
Rami of mandible eleFig.
4.
 Hypoplectrus unicolor crocotus Cope.
Cotype of Plectropoma crocota Cope.
vated a little inside mouth.
Teeth erect in jaws in rather narrow bands in front with some of inner a little large and others becomin smaller posteriorly.
Outer series a little enlarged along most of edge of upper jaw though becoming progressively smaller posteriorly.
Canines 70 in front of jaws lower pairs smaller.
Mandible with a narrow band of fine teeth becoming narrower posteriorly.
Each side of mandible with about 5 or 6 enlarged canines.
Bands of minute teeth on vomer and palatines.
Tongue long slender pointed and free.
Interorbital space flattened.
Gillopening forward to posterior nostril.
Gillrakers v 2  0. ir equal filaments and about half of eye.
PseudobranchiiT3 avS long as filaments.
Axil of pectoral rather deep.
Scales finely ctenoid.
Interorbital space and mandible naked.
Tubes of lateral line simple.
Vent about last fourth in space between tip of ventral spine and origin of spinous anal.
Color in alcohol rather bright brown back deeper colored also upper surface of head.
A deep brown ine along upper margin of preopercle a short distance and with others below.
Around eye a more or less interrupted deep brown line which in front extends down across cheek behind maxillary to lower anterior edge of preopercle.
On posterior part of cheek traces of a similarly inclined obsolete line towards angle of preopercle.
On snout and preorbital several small brownish spots.
Fins all plain or pale brownish spinous dorsal darkest basally.
Iris slaty.
Length 5 inches.
Type.
Hypoplectrus unicolor chlorurus Cuvicr.
St. Croix W. I.
Thomas Davidson Dr. R. E. Griffith.
Faralabrax nebulifer Girard.
California
E. D. Cope  San Diego Cal.
Ius.
Comp.
Zool.
Camb..
Faralabrax maculofasciatus Steindachner.
Los Angeles Bay Cal.
W. N. Lockington.
Faralabrax clathratus Girard.
Santa Barbara Cal.
U. S. F. C.
Centropristis striatus Lmnaus.
Bayport Fla. E. D. Cope  South Carolina Dr. J. E. Holbrook  Newport R. I.
Samuel Powell and Dr. J. Leidy  Wood's Hole' Mass.
U. S. F. C.
Centropristis pbiladelphious Linaxus.
South Carohna Dr. J. E. Holbrook.
Diplectrum radiate Quoy and Gaimard.
Rio Janeiro Brazil Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenbcrger  Manangucz Porto Rico U. S. F. C.
Diplectrum formosum Linnaeus.
Clearwater Fla. Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
EUDULITS gen. nom.
nov. TjDe Dules auriga Cu'ier.
The species of this genus are close to Prionodes Jenyns but differ in having 6 branchiostegals and a truncate caudal.
The typical species Eudulus auriga has the third dorsal spine whiplike and prolonged.
In the Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1907 p. 150 Dr. Theodore Gill has taken exception to my contention that his genus Kuhlia is superseded by Dules Cuvier and evidently that Dides malo Aalenciennes is older than Dides mato Lesson.
Although my conclusions will now be found to agree somewhat with Dr. Gill's they are the results of different methods.
For those who contend that Dulus Viellot Anal.
Ornith.
Element. 1816 p. 42 proposed for a genus of birds and Dules Cuvier Regne Animal Ed.
2 II 1829 p. 147 are different names Dules will still be fovmd available in place of KuJdia.
This led me to frame Duleidoe rather than Dulidoe as emended by Dr. Gill.
In the Foreign Quarterly Review for January to March 1829 vols.
I II IV and V of Regne Animal Ed.
2 are reviewed and volume III is said to be delayed a few months.
In this journal for 1830 volume III is seen to have at last appeared.
Still further evidence is found for the early appearance of Cuvier's Regne Animal in Ferrusac's Bull.
Sci.
Nat.
GeoL Paris XVIII 1829 p. 95 where it is noticed by July.
According to this last in vol.
XIX 1829 p. 369 is found the first mention of vol.
Ill Hist.
Nat.
Poiss. showing it and the succeeding volumes had not been received till November or December.
Cuvier's footnote in the Regne Animal to Dules auriga Cuv.
et.
Val. Ill li  D. tceniurus ib. liii etc. does not prove that they really did appear before the work in which they are quoted thus leaving both of these names nomina nuda and therefore either not available as the type.
In the bound copy of the plates before me only two species are shown and both numbered 52 though the first has been corrected by the engraver as 51 for Dules marginatus and 52 allowed to remain for D. auriga.
The next plate or 53 is Therapon theraps.
The evidence I have gathered may be seen to have justified Dides Cuvier replacing Kuhlia Gill though I now consider the former preoccupied.
In the case of Kuhlia malo Lesson's work may have probably appeared later as in An.
Mag.
Nat. London 7 XVII 1906 p. 336 Messrs. Sherborn and Woodward make corrections to a previous paper on the dates.
This would carry the reference to Dules mato back to No venire ' The species originally noted under this name by me may now be known as Kuhlia marginala K. marginata boninensis K. rupestris and K. malo.
ber 12 1831.
''March 22 1828 is a mistake for p. 223 in volume I of the Coquillc.
Dr. Gill's argument may therefore be probably justified in this respect though I do not accept Kuhlin mato now as the correct form and that Ciivior's name may liavc resulted from a typographical error.''
The priority of the second edition of ihe Regne Animal and the early volumes of the Hist.
Nat.
Poiss seem to have been juggled by a number of ATiters causing confusion in the selection of some names so that it is hoped the above remarks may conduce to solve the problem.
As an instance Gempylus will thus be seen to replace Lemnisoma if identical.
fu genuine 'onh Dulus or Dulcs in the latter form an okl name applied to these fishes meaning a slave with reference to the fish being under the lash of the long dorsal spine.
CALLIDULUS subgen.
nov.
Type Centroprislis subligarms Cope.
Third dorsal spine not longer at any age than fourth.
This differs from subgenus Eudulus chiefly in the above character.
h'aUo beauty Juiov Dulus.
Eudulug subligarius Cope.
Fig.
4.
Centropriftis .nhligarius Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1870 p. 120.
Type Xo.
13675 A. N. S. P. Southern coast near Pensacola.
Width of head 2 in its length  interorbital space 7 in head measured from tip of upper jaw.
Body compressed edges rounded and caudal peduncle compressed.
Head compressed its sides swollen below and becoming more narrow above.
Snout much broader than long.
Bands of small teeth in jaws outer canines a little better developed than inner and largest in front of upper jaw and on sides of mandible.
'omer with broad patch of fine teeth and a narrow band on each palatine.
Tongue narrow free and smooth.
Interorbital space narrow and flattened.
Gillopening not quite reaching front margin of eye.
Rakers v 1  7 v much shorter than filaments which are 2 in eye.
Gillmembranes free over broadly convex isthmus.
Scales finely ctenoid.
Interorbital space mandible and branchiostegal region naked.
Tubes in lateral line simple.
Color in alcohol deep brownish fading paler on lower surface of body and fins.
Above lateral line about 5 narrow deeper brown lines than bodycolor parallel with coiu'ses of scales.
Below lateral line each series of scales with a deeper brown longitudinal line similar to those above though soon fading out on costal region.
Rayed dorsal and anal caudal and pectoral all marked 266 June with deep brown pencillings due to each ray marked with as many as 10 short deep brown bars or spots.
A'entrals pale each with a duskybrown broad shade from base to tip of longest rays though leaving a pale margin in front.
Preanal region white strikingly in contrast with deep brown color above anal and this pale color extending up till about level with lower border of orbit where it fades out.
Its width also decreases above and its anterior boundary dark and distinct.
Cheek browaiish.
A deep duskybrown blotch on front of rayed dorsal.
'li triit Fig.
5.
 Eudulus suhligarius Cope.
Type of Centropri.
'itis subligarius Cope.
beginning just behind tip of spinous fin extends vertically down to back and fades out above base of spinous anal above.
Also traces of another though indistinct from bases of last dorsal rays and A shaped.
At bases of uppermost caudal rays a vertical band of deep brown extends down though it is dark and saddlelike alcove.
Iris brownish.
Length 3 inches.
Paracentropristis hepatus Linnaeus.
Italy Bonaparte Coll..
Serranellus cabrilla Linnaeus.
Italy Bonaparte Coll..
Serranellus soriba Linnaeus.
Italy Bonaparte Coll..
Faranthias furcifer Valenciennes.
St. Croix W. I.
Capt.
Thomas Davidson.
Anthias anthias Linnxus.
Italy Bonaparte Coll..
CALLAXTHIIX.E.
Branchiostegals 6.
Lateral line single and lost on upper surface of caudal peduncle or under last dorsal rays.
A single dorsal.
Ventral rays 5.
Callanthias ruber Rafinesque.
Anthias buphthabius Bonaparte Fauna Italica Pesc.
Ill ii 1833 descr. PI.
86 fig.
3.
Cotypes Nos.
13624 type to 13637 and 17161 A. N. S. P. Italy.
Bonaparte Coll.
Nos.
75 and 80 Head 3f  depth 3f  D. XI 10 A.
Ill 10 scales about 40 in lateral count to base of caudal and several more on latter about 37 scales in median lateral line to base of caudal  about 24 tubes in dorsal lateral line 2 scales between origin of spinous dorsal and dorsal lateral line 5 scales between dorsal lateral line and median lateral line in a vertical series opposite origin of rayed dorsal 8 scales in a vertical series between median course of median lateral line and origin of spinous anal width of head 2 in its length eleventh dorsal spine 2 third dorsal ray 1 third anal spine 2f  sixth anal ray If median caudal rays If least depth of caudal peduncle 2 pectoral 1 ventral 1 snout 4 in head measured from tip of upper jaw eye 2f  interorbital space 3 maxillary 2.
Body well compressed and edges more or less rounded or predorsal region with only an obsolete median keel.
Caudal peduncle compressed.
Head well compressed.
Snout about as wide as long.
Lips thin.
Rami of mandible a little elevated inside mouth.
Teeth in jaws uniserial conic and rather small.
At front of each jaw a pair of canines which protrude somewhat and others along each ramus of mandible.
No vomerine or palatine teeth.
Tongue narrow free and pointed.
Interorbital space convex.
Gillopening forward about first third of orbit.
Rakers 10  25 slender much longer than filaments or about equal to eye horizontally.
Pseudobranchiae nearly as large as filaments.
Scales finely ctenoid.
Color in alcohol faded more or less uniform brownish fins pale.
Iris brassyyellow.
Length 5f inches.
Type.
PHAROPTERYGIX.E.
Branchiostegals 6.
Vertebrae 25 or 26.
Lateral lines 2 upper lost on upper surface of caudal peduncle or under last dorsal rays and lower extending along middle of side of tail.
A single dorsal.
Ventral rays 4.
Pharopteryx corallicola Bleeker.
Padang Sumatra A. C. Harrison and Dr. H. M. Hiller.
Rypticus xanti Gill.
Head 2f  depth Sf D. HI 25 i A.
16 i scales about 103 in lateral line to base of caudal and 8 more on latter pores about 64 in lateral line to base of caudal about 13 scales in a vertical series between base of second dorsal spine and lateral line about 27 scales in a vertical series between origin of spinous anal and lateral line mandible  in head second dorsal spine 4 fifteenth dorsal ray 2 eleventh anal ray 2 least depth of caudal peduncle 3 caudal 1 pectoral 1 ventral SI  snout 3i in head measured from tip of upper jaw  eye 5  maxillary 2J interorbital space 2 in snout.
Body long rather slender compressed and lower profile a little more convex than upper.
Head compressed and upper profile more or less straight from tip of snout to dorsal.
Snout broad as long surface convex.
Eye circular high and about first third in head.
Mouth obliciue with robust mandible well protruding.
Lips fleshy.
Maxillary broad reaching posterior margin of eye and its distal expansion  of eye.
Rather broad bands of teeth in jaws and some of inner a little enlarged pointed though not depressible.
Bands of fine teeth on vomer and palatines.
Tongue long slender and free.
Nostrils near together in front of snout a little above and anterior in a short cutaneous tube.
Interorbital space rather narrowly convex.
Preorbital with entire margin convex.
Margin of preopercle with 3 spines lowest largest and uppermost smallest.
Opercular spines 3 median most posterior closer to uppermost and lowest most anterior.
Gillrakers viii 1  8 vii short robust and a little longer than filaments or half of orbit.
Scales small smooth and in more or less slightly wavy longitudinal series crossing lateral line behind.
Small scales on bases of fins.
Head covered with small scales except on lips and maxillary and about 24 series on cheek.
Lateral line convex at first under spinous dorsal and then sloping gradually down of simple tubes.
Spinous dorsal inserted near first third in entire length of fish and second spine longest.
Rayed dorsal separated though joined by membrane by a space about same as space between last 2 dorsal spines origin of fin midway in length of body and posterior fourth of fin highest with convex edge.
Anal inserted midway between origin of pectoral and base of caudal and most of fin more or less equally high.
Caudal rounded.
Pectoral about I to anal and median rays longest.
Ventral inserted midway between tip of mandible and vent well before origin of pectoral and reaching 3 J to anal or 3 to vent and spine 2 in fin.
Color in alcohol more or less pale or uniform brownish above variegated with darker marblings and somewhat paler below.
Fins all with more or less brownish.
Iris pale slaty.
Length 4 J inches.
Panama.
Dr. W. S. W. Riischenberger.
Rypticus saponaoeus Schneider.
West Palm Beach Fla. George B.
Wood.
Rypticus ooriaceus Cope.
Eleutheractis coriaceus Cope Trans.
Am.
Pliilos.
Soc.
Pliila. 2 XIV 1S71 p. 467 fis.
3.
Type No.
1344.5 A. N. S. P. St. Martin's West Indies.
Dr. R. E. van Rijgcrsma.
Width of head 2 in its length  interorbital space 12 in head measured from tip of upper jaw.
Edges of body rounded and caudal peduncle compressed.
Head compressed.
Supplemental maxillary narrow and long.
Bands of small fine teeth in jaws and on vomer and palatines.
Tongue edentulous rather long narrow and free.
Interorbital space narrow and slightly convex.
Gillopening forward to posterior margin of pupil.
Rakers ix 2 45 ix lanceolate and about f of longest filaments which are f of orbit.
Vent near front of anal.
Color in alcohol more or less deep uniform brownish fins little darker.
Length 8 inches.
Byptious bistrispinis Mit chill.
Rhypticus maculatus Holbrook Ich.
S.
Car. Ed.
2 I 1860 p. 42 PI.
6 fig.

Type No.
13232 A. N. S. P. South Carolina off Cape Romain Dr. J. E. Holbrook.
The above example may be Holbrook's type but his description gives the length of his single example as 8 inches while the above is but 7.
Also as the color has faded I cannot detect the markings or spots he indicates.
270 June
