VARIATION IN TWO SPECIES OF Lucidella FROM JAMAICA.
BY AMOS P. BROWN.
The genus Lucidella is best known from species found in the island of Jamaica from which locahty the first species were figured by Ferrusac under the name of Helix aureola
Ferrusac then figures the two common species of Jamaica which appear to have a general distribution throughout most parts of the island.
These species are very plentiful in the interior of the island particularly in the Mandeville region.
They live in the more undisturbed parts along the borders of woods seeming to prefer situations where there is a certain amount of sun rather than in the dense woods.
Along the roads they are met with inhabiting the stone walls which are the common fences in this part of the island.
When once established in the walls they appear to flourish even when the woods are cut away from the vicinity of the roads and where they have plenty of cover and not too much dryness they develop into as large forms as in the more undisturbed regions.
Lucidella aureola Fer.
is probably more generally and widely distributed but L. granulosa C. B. Adams is more plentiful in the Mandeville country though both forms are found living together.
Along grassy roadsides with low limestone rock exposures and even where the red residual clay from the limestone forms the banks of the road they are found in numbers in the case of the red clay banks perhaps L. aureola is somewhat more common while L. granulosa is found more frequently in numbers where the limestone exposures are seen.
This habit of living along the borders of woods and in the more open rocky woods is common with both species in the more undisturbed regions where the original forest still exists.
These two species have adapted themselves to the conditions brought about by advancing civilization and clearing of the land and are well established even in the oldest settled districts being found in numbers in many places that have been quite stripped of 1 D. de Ferrusac and G. P. Deshayes Hist.
Nat.
des Mollusiues Vol.
3 18201851 PI.
48 1 three figures oilLucidella aureola Fer.
and PI.
49A 1 two figures of L. granulosa C. B. Adams all figured by Ferrusac under the name of Helix aureola
the original forest.
But it is to be noted that it is in these places where the woods have been cleared for a long period of years that a reduction not in numbers of individuals but in size may be observed.
While the evidence is not entirely complete it seems to point to a reduction in size in those places where the forest has been entirely cleared away and where the animals are now living under conditions of greater dryness than the optimum conditions that obtain in places where the original forest is still more or less undisturbed.
The variations treated of in this paper are seen in individuals of these species that are living under the optimum conditions which obtain in the forested sections as contrasted with those individuals which are found in the dryer cleared sections.
The localities from which these contrasted individuals were obtained are in Manchester Parish near Mandeville for L. gramdosa and for L. aureola the same region as contrasted with the Montego Bay district.
Lucidella granulosa is found almost everywhere in the region about Mandeville where the conditions are favorable.
It is in this locality much more common than L. aureola which however is found plentifully in this part of Manchester.
But L. granulosa was not taken at Montego Bay while a small form of L. aureola was very plentiful at this station.
Perhaps the most typical forms of L. granulosa come from the borders of the undisturbed woods in Manchester Parish near Mandeville and it seems likely that it was from this region that C. B. Adams first collected the form.
From the many colonies in the Mandeville region from which I collected these typical forms of this species the Somerset Somerset Road and Benmore woods colonies may be selected as furnishing characteristic examples of the normal form.
These localities have been described in a former paperit will suffice here to state that they were places where the original forest still exists and optimum conditions for the growth of this species obtain.
The small forms that are compared with these typical forms were collected at two stations where the forest had been completely cleared at least near the roads along which the collecting was done and were near the Sturridge place some three miles to the southeast of Mandeville village and along the Kendal Road one mile to the north of the town.
A short description of these stations will be necessary.
Brown Variation in some Jamaican Species of Pleurodonte these Proceedings 1911 pp.
124 128 129.
See map of Mandeville region loc.
cil.
these Proceedings 1911 p. 121.
The Sturridge place about three miles to the southeast of Mandeville is in the old settled part of the region.
Here the original forest has long been cleared and the country is almost bare of shade trees.
A few scattered orange or pimento trees along the roadsides are the only protection from the tropical sun and the bare fields while grassy have an arid look as compared to the dense woods of the original forest.
The only cover for the mollusks is in the stone walls which as usual are built along the roads as fences.
An old private buryingground doubtless belonging to the Sturridge place had a few trees growing in it which made a little shade and this old cemetery wall was the most favorable place for mollusks that was found at this point.
Here and at a few places nearby along the road specimens of L granulosa were obtained.
They were not very plentiful but were found in fair numbers and in as great numbers as any other species of mollusk collected at this point.
They were quite uniformly small specimens.
They inhabited the wall utilizing its cover and were collected from the wall and from the ground at its base.
The other station where the small form of L. granulosa was taken was on the Kendal Road one mile north of Mandeville  along a part of the road through pasture lands where the trees had been cleared back from the road on the more level ground so that there was but little shade along the road.
Here again the Lucidellas were living in the low stone walls which lined the road and were especially abundant in places where the top of the wall was covered with moss or fern.
Here the dead shells of this small form of L. granulosa were very plentiful many in verj fresh condition but during the dry time when I was collecting no living individuals were seen moving about.
They had apparently come up on the tops of the walls to escape from the rain during wet weather and died there.
At this place the only cover for the snails was to be found in the wall itself.
This as in the case of the Sturridge place must have been very dry except after a shower or during the rather uncertain rainy seasons.
This small form of L. granulosa is well established at this station but only the small individuals were seen as was the case at the Sturridge place.
It is practically a small local race at each locality.
While not so plentiful as L. granulosa in the Mandeville region L. aureola is found almost everywhere that the conditions are favorable.
This species lives on the ground and is found on grassy banks even where there is no rock.
It does not require rock piles or walls for cover evidently grassy pastures offering sufficient cover and food for the species.
This probably explains its present wide distribution as compared with L. granulosa and its persisting in places where the other species are not now found.
It occurred along the borders of the woods in the Somerset region and along the roadsides at almost all places about Mandeville especially being collected along the Lower Santa Cruz Road in considerable numbers.
Here it was living on the grassy borders of the road and was taken from the clay banks in places where for instance Cepolis Hemitrochus graminicola was common.
Along this Santa Cruz road the forest is mostly cleared but the L. aureola has sufficient cover in the grass of the pastures which the road passes through.
Both here and especially at Somerset two places selected as furnishing normal forms of the species the animals are living under what may be termed optimum conditions.
Nowhere in the Mandeville region in fact except perhaps near the Sturridge place where L. aureola was not found are the fields really arid and for a form that can live on the ground with only grass for cover the conditions are perhaps never very unfavorable.
A small form of this species is found at Montego Bay a region where the soil is so thin that the clearing of the forest has resulted in the development of conditions that may be described as arid at least during the dry part of the year.
Montego Bay is one of the oldest settlements in the island dating back to the Spanish occupation.
The original forest has been cleared off all of the more level ground which has been under cultivation for probably the greater part of a century.
Where trees have been planted they are mostly logwood which is grown in the pastures the trees being planted sufficiently far apart to allow the pasture grass plenty of sun.
In these logwood plantations especially if they are on a slope the soil is very thin and the rock comes near the surface.
During the dry season the ground gets very parched and the grass quite brown in the wet season from the end of April to the end of November when showers may occur at any time the torrential rains almost immediately drain off on the hill slopes and owing to the porous character of the soil the ground becomes quite dry between the showers.
For a great part of the year except when a rainy week majoccur in May or November any mollusks that are ground dwellers must exist under alternating short periods of great moisture and dryness while during the dry season from December to April they must sestivate under the almost arid conditions which obtain.
Lucidella granulosa C. B. Adams.
Plate I figs 115.
Helix aureolaar.
Fcr. Nat.
Hist des Mollusques Vol.
3 18201851 PI.
49A two figures marked 1.
Helicina aureola Gray Zool.
Jour. 1 p. 70 pi.
6 fig.
15.
Lucidella aureola var.
granulosa C. B.
Ad. Cont.
Conch. 6 1850 p. 89.
Lucidella undulata Pfr. Malak. Bl.
VIII 1861 p. 171.
This is the species usually labelled L. undulata in collections.
It was first figured by Ferrusac along with L. aureola under the name Helicina aureola.
The two figures on Ferrusac 's plate 49A numbered 1 represent a form covered with granules which he considered to be a variety of Helix aureoland which is the common species of Lucidella in the Manchester district.
C. B. Adams refers to this form as follows 'A variety of Lucidella aureola is so strongly sculptured with granules that it will be convenient to designate the variety with the name of granulosa.' Adams loc.
cit.
This was in 1850 and eleven years afterwards in 1861 Pfeiffer describes this form referring to Ferrusac's figure above mentioned under the name of L. undulata.
It is by this name of Pfeiffer's that the species is generally known although the granulosa of Adams antedates Pfeiffer's name by eleven years.
Inasmuch as C. B. Adams collected in the Mandeville region in Manchester it is very likely that his granulosa came from this district.
In a former paper it is recorded in the Mandeville region from Benmore Bloomfield Sturridge place Cedar Hill Lower Santa Cruz Road ridge near Lincoln Somerset Somerset Road and it was also collected on the Kendal Road north of Mandeville as well as several otner places in this vicinity.
Most of the specimens of this species in the A. N. S. P. Collection were taken by me in 1910 but there are three or four trays simply recorded as from ''Jamaica one of which marked Swift Collection is of especial interest.
This lot probably came from H. Vendries of Kingston and is marked on the collector's label L aureola Fer.
var.
gra7iidosa they possess the characters which seem to distinguish this species in a pronounced degree.
If these are Vendries specimens they no doubt came from St. Andrews Parish.
They may be described as follows Lucidella granulosa C. B.
Ad.
Swift Collecton A. N. S. P. Plate I figs 13.
Shell somewhat convexly conoidal rather thick somewhat keeled on the periphery and wrinkled in the direction of the growth lines radially from the apex color reddishbrown mottled with whitish of about 6 whorls sculpture of raised spiral lines or lirae  Pilsbry and Brown The Mollusca of Mandeville Jamaica and its Environs Proc.
a. N. S. p. 1910 pp.
510535 Lucidella undulata Pfr.
p. 525. covering the entire surface those above the periphery being swollen at intervals when crossed by the radial wrinkles or corrugations that follow the growth lines thus forming both the raised granulation and the whitish spots from the raised lirse becoming whitish where swollen.
The swelling of the revolving spirals becomes very pronounced along the periphery which is thus raised into a series of tubercles commencing about the beginning of the fourth whorl and continuing to the lip.
The swelling of the lirse to form the granulation does not extend far below the periphery not more than 4 or 5 of the revolving striae being thus affected.
The striae continue however to the umbihcus becoming fainter as this is approached.
Diam.
77 alt.
5.5 mm.
The keeled and tuberculated periphery seems to be characteristic of this species but is not always as in this Swift Collection lot carried out to the lip.
It is present in the young shells in all cases which would seem to indicate that the ancestral species must have resembled this one from the Swift Collection.
None of the Mandeville region specimens normally show this tuberculated and keeled periphery in the adult state at least not entirely up to the lip but the young all show it.
The Somerset Road specimens Plate I figs.
6 10 which perhaps lived under as nearly optimum conditions for this species as any collected in the Mandeville region show this tuberculated and keeled periphery up to nearly the end of the fifth whorl but the peripheral tulerculation dies away before the sixth whorl is reached.
Young shells from this station have quite a different appearance from the adults.
This seems as above stated to be the general condition of the species in the Manchester region the adult stage has lost the peripheral granulation but the younger stages show it.
And it is perhaps more pronounced in the Somerset specimens than in any of the others the last whorl being frequently nearly smooth Plate I fig.
4 figs.
79 on the periphery.
An exceptional specimen from Somerset showing the tuberculated periphery is figured at 5 on the plate.
The tuberculate condition of the periphery extends from the middle of the third whorl 2.5 whorls from the apex to the middle of the fifth whorl 4.5 whorls from the apex.
Thus the last whorl there are five and onehalf to six whorls is comparatively smooth on the periphery and except for the color pattern the shell at first sight resembles L. aureola.
The color pattern itself varies when the peripheral tuberculation disappears when it is present there is a regular periodicity in the recurrence of the whitish patches which mark the swelling of the lirae that is the cause of the lighter spots they run from 16 to 20 to the whorl and when this periodicity is seen with the whitish spots reaching the periphery this in turn becomes tuberculated and keeled.
This regularity of the markings is characteristic of the younger stages and as long as it is seen the young shell will be found to be keeled and tuberculated when it disappears and the color pattern becomes a mottling of the shell then the periphery is neither keeled nor tuberculated.
In the two places where dwarfed shells were taken a large number of them have this tuberculated and keeled periphery on the last whorl although considerably less than half are so ornamented.
It is noticeable that the whitish ornamentation when it is accompanied by the peripheral tuberculation follows the growth lines and is then more continuous and stronger.
But when it curves towards the mouth of the shell and crosses the growth lines it tends to break up into branches rarely reaches the periphery and practically never causes tuberculation.
.When the animals are living under optimum conditions as at the Somerset and Somerset Road stations this bending forward of the ornamentation across the growth lines becomes characteristic and the color pattern becomes finer and less regular by the branching of these whitish lines or by their breaking up into dots.
And where this finely mottled color pattern is seen the last whorl is nearly smooth and the periphery is free from tubercles.
The tuberculated condition of the periphery is thus a character of the young stages sometimes continued into the adult stages up to the development of the lip.
The appearance of this character in the dwarfed races Plate I figs.
1115 at Kendal Road station and at the Sturridge station is due to what is generally described as ''reversion to an ancestral form or it is due to the animals living under unfavorable conditions as regards shell development and growth which causes them to mature at an earlier stage than those forms which live under optimum conditions.
But while the conditions are unfavorable to growth they are not unfavorable to reproduction for these dwarfed forms are very plentiful at the localities where they were taken.
An examination of the shells of these Kendal Road and Sturridge forms will show at once from the growih lines that they grew with many interruptions as many as 30 such interruptions being often seen in one shell.
Those from Kendal Road station also mature earlier as they have only five whorls instead of five and onehalf or six as in forms growing under more favorable conditions.
The forms that live in walls whether of this species or any other where the wall is their only cover are always subject to such recurring periods of enforced inactivity during dry spells and with the long period of the dry season which may last for several months during which the sexual organs probably mature.
These wall dwellers become active after every shower and probably aestivate temporarily during the dry spells between showers so they have many less growing days throughout the year than forms that may move about and feed any day.
Each aestivation period is marked by a pronounced grovth line and the 30 or more such interruptions mentioned above are thus recorded.
If the adult stage is reached by the animal before the shell has passed through the tuberculatedandkeeled periphery stage of shell growth then the adult with lip developed has this tuberculated periphery if this stage has been passed the last whorl is smooth and not tuberculated along the periphery.
In the Sturridge place forms where the whorls may reach five and onehalf but few show the tuberculation of the periphery extending out to the lip.
Lucidella aureola Fer..
Plate I figs.
1626.
Helix aureolaerrusac Nat.
Hist des Mollusques Vol.
3 18201851 PI.
48 fig.
1 not.
PI.
49A 1.
Helicina Lucidella aureola Sow. Thes. Vol.
Ill p. 282 No.
56 figs.
94 479.
Lucidella aureola Swainson Chemn.
ed.
nov. PL 5 figs.
2023.
This is the most widely distributed species of Lucidella in the island of Jamaica but it generally occurs in small numbers at any one station.
Specimens of this species were examined that were collected in Portland Port Antonio St. Andrews Stony Hill and Constant Spring St. Catharine Natural Bridge Bog Walk Manchester various points near Mandeville and St. James Montego Bay at Orange Hill and Rose Mount as well as a number of other collections of which the locality was not recorded further than as from Jamaica.
Among these the race from St. James as found at Orange Hill and Rose Mount is a small dwarfed form which is different from any seen elsewhere and is only matched in size by an occasional specimen from the region to the southwest of Mandeville along the Santa Cruz road.
With the exception of this St. James race from the vicinity of Montego Bay the general description of the species Plate I figs.
1621 is as follows Shell depressed conoidal spire somewhat convex apex mucronate uniformly colored some shade of chestnut paler in the young shells the shell sculptured with fine revolving lirse and the whorls crossed by oblique wrinkles which follow the growth lines in direction.
beginning to appear generally on the second whorl and sometimes continuing to the lip but dying away towards the periphery or if they cross it not producing a thickening of the hrae at this point.
Whorls six or somewhat over 6.3 and rarely less than 5.7.
The revolving strise become fainter and are almost obsolete in the umbilicus.
The number of these revolving strise varies through the appearance of interstitial lirse between those already existing which eventually develop to the same size as the others.
There are generally about 45 lirse on the last whorl of which 18 or 20 are above the periphery they are close and even and are not thickened where the oblique wrinkles cross them.
The size varies with the locality ranging from diam.
 10 mm.
by alt.
 7.7 mm.
Pfeiffer to diam.
 5.6 mm.
by alt.
4.3 in the smallest specimen taken in the vicinity of Mandeville.
This smallest specimen which came from the Lower Santa Cruz Road about three miles from Mandeville is simply a diminutive reproduction of the largest which was found at Somerset with somewhat fewer whorls but vith none of the peripheral granulation observed on some of the Montego Bay specimens Plate I figs.
2226.
These latter which as stated above were collected on the Orange Hill and the Rose Mount estates differ from the typical L. aureola above described in certain specimens.
In about onehalf of the Orange Hill specimens and about onethird of the Rose Mount specimens an additional sculptural feature is present.
The periphery of the last whorl is raised into a series of points or tubercles by the thickening of one or more of the peripheral lirse where they are crossed by the transverse oblique wrinkles which are present inall specimens of this species examined.
This structure is exactly comparable to the development of the granulate sculpture on L. granulosa which has been described.
A careful examination of the young of typical L. aureola from some fifteen localities shows that while the oblique transverse wrinkles are common to all of them these do not produce any granulation on the periphery so that this is not as in the case of the dwarfed races of L. granulosa a reversion or the effect of the individual's maturing at what is normally a young stage but actually a new sculptural character which has developed in these Montego Bay forms.
It only appears distinctly on the last whorl the tubercles becoming stronger after the periphery emerges from the suture but it may be present on the preceding whorl also as the corrugations or wrinkles are found well developed on both the last and next to the last whorls.
When well developed the granulations continue out to the Hp  sometimes they only appear in the middle part of the last whorl and become obsolescent towards the lip.
They are well shown and their connection with the transverse wrinkles is apparent in the figs.
22 25 26 Plate I.
This peripheral granulation is thus characteristic of certain of the specimens taken at Orange Hill and Rose Alount Montego Bay and is not found in the normal L. aureola from any other locality examined.
The forms possessing it might be designated by a varietal name as montegoensis and it is probably the beginning of a new species or what would become one if the forms continued to live at the Montego Bay localities which unless the settling up of the country continues is likely to be the case they having survived the advance of civilization for perhaps a century.
But it may be a variation not due directly to the aridity of the country produced by the clearing of the land  not referable to change of environment alone  but to hyhridity and this might work out in future generations.
We thus have two species each developing a dwarfed race under similar conditions of environment but in which the causes for the development of the new sculptural characters which accompany the dwarfing are probably not referable to the same causes.
The Variation in Size.
The amount of the variation in size may be graphically shown by plotting the dimensions of the forms to scale in the manner adopted in a previous paper. These dimensions are given below.
Variation in size in Lucidella granulosa C. B. Adams.
 The forms of this species compared in fig.
1 are from Somerset Somerset Road Benmore Kendal Road one mile north of Mandeville and the Sturridge place three miles southeast of Mandeville.
Those from Somerset and Somerset Road are the largest those from Kendal Road and the Sturridge place the smallest.
The Benmore specimens lie between these two but nearer to the larger group so that the plot shows two groups as to size with a gap between the two that is not entirely bridged over by the Benmore specimens.
The normal forms represented by the group of larger specimens from these localities show some variation in the sculpture but are in general as described above for the forms from Somerset and Somerset Road with a nearly nontuberculated periphery on the last whorl.
Only  A. P. Brown Variation in some Jamaican Species of Pleurodonte Proc.
A. N. S. P. 1911 pp.
117164 figs.
214.
1913.
13 a few of the Somerset specimens show the keeled and tuberculated periphery that is characteristic of the Swift Collection specimens of which a description is given above.
These are however of normal size for the species as may be seen from the plate figs.
4 5 79.
A few individuals from Benmore show this tuberculated periphery also.
Contrasted with this smooth condition of the last whorls which may be considered normal for L. granulosa as found near Mandeville is the much larger proportion of tuberculatedkeeled forms found o O O X O o  6TvrvO X 9    X     5   f   e  
oSomereefc  .r x6ome.rsetroa.
d   Kendal TTDCLdL. 
    f    7  1 Srrvm     1    Fig.
1.
Lucidella granulosa.
Comparison of the dimensions of the forms from five different localities.
among the specimens from the two localities where the forms are dwarfed.
At the Sturridge place about onehalf of the specimens show peripheral granules on the last whorl though these tend to become obsolescent as the lip is approached.
In the Kendal Road specimens somewhat over twothirds show this granulation and in many cases it extends out to the lip a much smaller proportion showing this granulation of the peripheral lira becoming obsolescent and dying away as the lip is approached than in the case of the Sturridge specimens.
The reduction in size in L. granulosa in these localities is accompanied by a shght reduction in the size of the embryonicshell or protoconch which is easily observed in all cases in the adult shell.
The minor diameter of the protoconch averages 0.47 mm.
in the specimens from the larger group the average being for the Benmore specimens 0.444 mm. for the Somerset Road specimens 0.47 mm. and for the Somerset specimens 0.50 mm.
 as against an average of 0.416 mm.
for the Kendal Road specimens and 0.408 for the Sturridge place forms.
There is thus a dwarfing that is not alone individual but a racial dwarfing.
These characters are well shown by a comparison of the dimensions by whorls which is given in fig.
2.
A series of characteristic specimens were selected from each locality and each individual measured by whorls with an  ' Fig.
2.
 Lucidella granulosa.
Comparison of width and height by whorls.
Sm.
 Somerset S. R. Somerset Road B.
Benmore St.  Sturridge K. R. Kendal Road.
eyepiece micrometer on the microscope using of course a mechanical stage to adjust the specimen.
The measurements by whorls and the minor diameter of the protoconch are plotted in the figure.
This last character hardly shows well at this scale the differences being small.
The comparison by whorls brings out the fact that in spite of the dwarfed character of two of these races but little reduction in size is shown up to the third whorl and the difference in size only becomes pronounced at the fourth whorl.
All of these forms whether normal or dwarfed possess at least five whorls so that up to this point the growth rate is strictly comparable.
The marked falling off in size of the two dwarfed races at this point is to be attributed to the environment alone.
The still more marked falling off in diameter as shown in the last whorl is partly due to a reduction in the number of whorls in the dwarfed races this falling from the maximum of somewhat over six whorls in the larger forms from Somerset Somerset Road and Benmore to between five and six for the two dwarfed races from Sturridge's and Kendal Road although even at these two localities the whorls may reach six in some cases.
Variation in size in Lucidella aureola Fer..
 The forms of this species compared in fig.
3 are from Somerset Santa Cruz Road and Orange Hill Montego Bay and to these has been added a series from the A. N. S. P. old collection labelled simply Swift Collection and recorded as from Jamaica without any definite locality.
These divide at once into two groups of which the Somerset X    7mm O O  X  o     o 6   o    o      .
 S   XSuTift coU.
 h e Somerset . '
  Santa.
Orxi roeid..      .oruteocy.
A.
  1  1    1   7 .
1 1  i  1 Srvm.
Fig.
3. Lucidella aureola.
Comparison of the dimensions of the species from four different localities.
Swift Collection and Santa Cruz Road lots are larger the Montego Bay lot is smaller.
It will be seen however that a single specimen from the Santa Cruz Road series approaches the Montego Bay specimens in size being of less diameter than any of this Orange Hill Montego Bay series.
The Swift Collection series are all proportionately higher than those from Somerset which otherwise they compare well with in size.
The Santa Cruz specimens lived 16 Jan. in the open fields and in walls along the roadside their only cover being the walls or the low vegetation of the fields and they are all smaller than the Somerset and Swift Collection series.
The one exceptionally small specimen was adult so far as development of the lip was concerned and in size would correspond to Pfeiffer's variety which he calls L. aureola minor being even smaller than his dimensions for that form.
But while it compares in size with the Montego Bay forms it is not at all like them in sculpture resembling the normal L. aureola of the island generally.
It is evident then that the normal L. aureola may vary in size in occasional individuals down to that of the dwarfed or runt race found near Montego Bay.
This last race is a composite one in about onehalf of the Orange Hill specimens and onethird of the Rose Mount specimens a distinctive sculpture characterizes the forms.
This has already been described above.
The minor diameter of the protoconch is also somewhat less than in the normal forms of this species this dimension varies from 0.55 mm.
in the Somerset and Swift ColFig.
4.
 Lucidella aureola.
Comparison of the width and height by whorls from four different locahties.
lection specimens to 0.50 mm.
in the Santa Cruz Road specimens and 0.45 mm.
in those from Montego Bay.
A comparison of the dimensions of L. aureola by whorls is given in fig.
4 where these protoconch diameters are plotted along with the heights.
It will be seen that the diameters by whorls do not show much variation in the four lots of specimens examined until the third whorl is passed but a marked falling off in the diameter of the Santa Cruz Road and the Montego Bay specimens commences with the fourth whorl becomes still more pronounced in the fifth whorl and culminates in the last whorl.
As in the case of L. granulosa there is a reduction in the number of whorls in the adult stage in the case of the dwarfed Montego Bay forms which accentuates the diminution in diameter after the fifth whorl.
The number of whorls is of course larger in the larger specimens from Somerset the Swift Collection lot and the Santa Cruz Road specimens being generally over six whorls whereas the specimens from Montego Bay range from five to five and threetenths whorls and in rare cases one may reach five and onehalf whorls.
As in the case of L. granulosa the reduction in size is accompanied by a reduction in the number of whorls and the animal matures at an earlier stage of shell development than is the case in the larger normal forms.
The small specimen from Santa Cruz Road which approximates in size the Montego Bay specimens had only five and threetenths whorls as they have and a few other Santa Cruz Road specimens which are small run about five and seventenths whorls.
The Causes of the Variation in Size and Sculpture.
In the case of the variation of the two species herein described it is plain that we have to deal with two different kinds of variation 1 A reduction in size from the normal type and 2 a change of sculpture.
The cause of the change of size is the same in both cases and has already been stated.
The reduction in size is undoubtedly brought about by the drier and more arid environment which retards the growth of the individual superimposed upon which is the regular periodicity of climatic changes due to the changing seasons which induces the development of the reproductive organs at a given time in the year without much regard to the size the individual has attained.
Thus the forms living under arid conditions will have only reached the beginning of the sixth whorl or passed the completion of the fifth whorl when the enforced aestivation brought on by the dry season commences.
During the dry season all of these snails are more or less inactive and during this resting stage the genitalia are developed.
The lip probably commences to develop about the same time.
Forms living under optimum conditions have reached the beginning of the seventh whorl when this occurs they will have an extra whorl as compared with the forms living under arid conditions which would have had many less feeding and growing days and which latter no doubt have passed through many short periods of aestivation during their period of growth which was frequently interrupted by the dry spells between showers.
Probably from the repeated aestivation periods that these dwarfed forms must pass through there has been produced an actual decrease in the size of the embryo as is indicated by the reduction in the size of the protoconch and this may mark the fixing of the small race even though their environment may change but this dwarfing of the embryo is not needed to explain the reduction in size.
2 The change of sculpture which accompanies the reduction in size is to be differently explained in the case of each species.
In the one case that of L. granulosa it has been shown to be directly connected with the reduction in size which in turn is brought about by the loss of a whorl.
The sculpture in this case is that of the young shell up to the beginning of the sixth whorl up to 5.3 whorls generally and is a necessary accompaniment of the loss of a whorl.
In the case of normal forms in which this sculpture exists as in the occasional specimens from Somerset or the Swift Collection specimen of L. granulosa this sculpture seems to have persisted up to the end of the sixth whorl and as pointed out it may be an ancestral character which is becoming obsolescent.
But it has been rejuvenated in these dwarfed forms by the process known as reversion.
The case of the change of sculpture in the dwarfed forms of L. aureola is different.
Here we are not dealing with a character which exists in the young stages and is simply disclosed by the leaving off of a whorl as in the last case but with a new character of which no trace is to be found in the young of the normal species.
It may be an adaptation in response to the change of environment or it may be due to the effect of hybridity.
It is here that the evidence is incomplete.
It is not known whether the other form that would likely hybridize with L. aureola occurs or has occurred at Montego Bay.
I mean the species L. granulosa.
In a large collection made at Montego Bay in 1910 I did not encounter this species nor is it found in Henderson's list as being found at this point.
It might be found in some of the deposits of semifossil shells that occur near Montego Bay but while I examined these I did not find any specimens of L. granulosa.
If it existed at Orange Hill and at Rose Mount previous to the clearing of the land it would probably die out as this species requires more cover than is to be found in the logwoodplanted pastures where the Montego Bay race of L. aureola is now living.
And during its extinction it might very conceivably have mixed with the L. aureola which thrives well in grass lands elsewhere in the island.
The hybrid thus produced would be likely to have a tuberculated .periphery.
And the hybrid living with a normally sculptured pure race of L. aureola would tend through hybridity to change back to the normal sculpture of this latter species.
 J.
B. Henderson Nautilus VIII 1894 pp.
1 19 31.
On the other hand the variation may be a response to change of environment the animals becoming adapted to arid conditions.
Of course this adaptation is evident as regards the reduction in size but it is not yet known that animals living with deficiency of moisture necessarily become more or differently sculptured.
The chief effect of this aridity would be to reduce the moisture of the body and this may conceivably produce an increase of sculpture.
Reduction of moisture followed by an increase of moisture tends to induce proliferation.
This has been noted by Loeb in the case of the eggs of the sea urchin.
When newly fertilized eggs are placed in hypertonic sea water for three or four hours and then brought back into normal sea water they divide into from six to sixteen cells in about ten minutes and in some cases even into about forty cells inside of twenty minutes.
The reduction of moisture in the egg was here sufficient to inhibit cell division but not enough to prevent nuclear division.
When put back into normal sea water a most powerful streaming of the protoplasm was observect.
This streaming seemed to occur around the chromosomes and fragments of nuclear matter as centres.
At length each knob or projection formed by the streaming became a separate cell.
The effect of the hypertonic sea water made by adding salt to normal sea water was to withdraw water from the cell.
Putting the egg back into normal sea water added water to the cell.
Estivation must result in withdrawal of water from the protoplasm and may proceed to the point of gelation.
Addition of water to the protoplasm after such aestivation might readily result in proliferation as a result of the irregular nuclear division produced during the aestivation period when cell division could not occur.
The irregular thickening of the shell that forms the peripheral tubercles and other increase of sculpture is of the nature of a proliferation of the shell.
This is conceivably due to the irregular cell division produced by aestivation which in turn is preceded by nuclear division without accompanying cell formation during the aestivation period.
Normally a cell dividing produces two daughter cells but under this fluctuation of the water content the number of daughter cells may be from six eight etc.
 or M  2D may become M  4D or 6D or 8D etc..
Boveri has shown that the conditions which bring about cell division seem to depend upon a ratio between the mass of the chromosomes to the mass of protoplasm being established and occurs ' Loeb Jour of Morphology Vol.
7 p. 253 1892.
8 Boveri Zellen Studien Heft 5 Jena 190.5. when the ratio chromosomes to protoplasm reaches a certain constant.
Increase of the mass of the chromosomes retards cell division which does not occur until the mass of the protoplasm increases also.
The material for the growth of the chromosomes is furnished by the protoplasm from its reserve material according to Sachs.
So cell growth consists in the transformation of protoplasmic into chromatin material in the nucleus until a definite ratio of P  C  k is reached when division occurs.
The mother cell just before division consists of nCjP  M. After division M divides into 2D each being nC'rP'.
These daughter cells then grow to the size and ratio of the mother cell or until nC'iP' becomes nCP when division may again occur.
Starvation produces a reduction in the amount of protoplasm and retards the development of the chromosomes.
Estivation will cause reduction in the amount of protoplasm and retard cell division.
J. Sachs was the first to point out that in each species the ultimate size of the cell is a constant for each organ and that wfiere two individuals differ in size the difference is in the number and not the size of corresponding cells.
Amelung a student of Sachs confirmed this by actual count.
But it seems probable that diminution in the amount of protoplasm may be accompanied or followed by a reduction in the mass of the chromosomes and reduction in the size of the nuclei and as the ratio CiP is constant for cell division then CjP  M by reduction of mass of both C and P to C and P' becomes C'iP'  M' a smaller cell.
It is in this way that the observed reduction in size of the embryonic shell or protoconch in these dwarfed forms of the two species of Lucidella here considered is to be explained.
For this reduction in size of the protoconch must accompany a reduction in the size of the egg and it is probably the establishing of a new equilibrium resulting in the reduction in size of the egg among other things that is the explanation of the observation that conditions unfavorable to the growth of the animal are not unfavorable to its reproduction.
Explanation of Plate I.
It i s to be noted that figures 16 are enlarged somewhat more than the rest being magnified 4.5 times while all the other figures 726 are magnified 3.4 times and these being all on the same scale the relative sizes may be directly compared.
Figs.
710 are normal 1115 are dwarfed figs.
1621 are normal 2226 dwarfed.
Figs.
1 2 3.
 Lucidella granulosa C. B. Adams Swift Collection.
Showing the tuberculated and keeled periphery characteristic of the specimens in this lot.
Fig.
4.
 Lucidella granulosa C. B. Adams.
A form with the last whorl smooth from Somerset.
Fig.
5.
 A specimen of the same species from Somerset which shows the tuberculated keel as in figs.
13.
Fig.
6.
 A specimen of the same species from Somerset Road colony with nearly smooth last whorl but showing the tuberculation on the earlier whorls.
Figs.
79.
 Three specimens of L. granulosa from Somerset with smooth last whorl.
Figs.
7 and 9 show two common color patterns.
Fig.
10.
 A specimen of L. granulosa rom Somerset Road with smooth last whorl.
Figs.
11 12.
 Two of the dwarfed forms ot L. granulosa from the Sturridge place.
Both show the granulated periphery of the last whorl.
Figs.
1315.
 Three of the dwarfed specimens of L. granulosa from the Kendal Road colony.
They all show the granulated periphery.
Figs.
1618.
 Lucidella aureola Fer.
from Somerset showing the rather large normal form of this species as found at this locality.
Figs.
1921.
 Lucidella aureola Fer.
from the Santa Cruz Road showing the smaller size of the specimens from this station as compared with those from Somerset.
Fig.
22.
 Lucidella aureola Fer.
from Orange Hill Montego Bay the form with tuberculate periphery.
Figs.
23 24.
 Lucidella aureola Fer.
from Orange Hill Montego Bay the shell seen from above and from the under side.
Figs.
25 26.  Lucidella aureola Fer.
from Orange Hill Montego Bay each showing the tuberculate periphery of the form for which the varietal name of Montegoensis is suggested.
22 Jan. DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF MARINE SHELLS.
BY E. G. VANATTA.
Metula amosi n sp.
Shell solid elongate fusiform creamwhite with slight indication of a subsutural a peripheral and a de basal broMiish spiral band.
Spire elevated conical vertically costate with spiral strise in the interstices.
Suture impressed irregularly crenulate.
Whorls convex 5 remainmg.
Body whorl sculptured with 41 vertical costse crossed by 33 raised spiral lines with a slight tubercle at the point of intersection.
The first three spirals below the suture are strongest the others becoming closer and finer at the periphery and then wider towards the base.
There are 12 spirals on the wide short slighth' Figs.
1 2.Meulo omosi Van.
recurved anterior canal not crossed by the vertical costse.
Aperture elongate about onehalf the length of the shell.
The outer lip is slightly arcuate thickened externally internally polished and a little crenulate white at the slightly refiexed edge internally creamcolored with a flleshcolored band along the outer margin and in the basal third.
The parietal wall and columella moderately concave covered by an adnate smooth callus creamcolored tinged with fleshcolor at the base.
Altitude 40 diam.
13 aperture alt.
22.5 diam.
7 mm.
Locality.
 Panama.
The types are in the collection of The Academy of Natural Sciences number 107159 collected by Mr S. N. Rhoads.
This species is wider than the Japanese Metula elongata Dall and has a longer aperture.
It differs from Metula gahhi B. and P. in being higher narrower more cylindrical in having the sculpture on the early whorls less compact base more attenuate aperture longer and the columella not so sinuous.
I take pleasure in naming this species after Dr. Amos P. Brown one of the authors of Metula gahhi the Oligocene species which is probably the ancestor of this form.
HaplococWias swifti n. sp.
Shell small umbilicate turbinate white suture deeply impressed spire elevated whorls 5 very convex contabulate the first whorl somewhat eroded the two following whorls bicarinate the penultimate and bodj whorl more or less tricarinate.
The body whorl is sculptured with 24 spaced spiral striae with microscopic P'ig.
3.
 Haplocochlias swifti Van.
vertical striae in the interstices.
The fourth sixth and eighth striae below the suture on the body whorl are larger than the others and three or four striae near the umbilicus are closer together.
The umbilicus is of moderate size.
The aperture is orbicular peristome continuous very thick and broadly refiexed crenate parietal callus thick columella narrow above and broad at the base bearing a median groove.
Length 3.92 diameter 3.92 mm.
Habitat St. Thomas W. I. collected by R. Swift.
Type in the collection of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia number 10292.
This species differs from Haplocochlias cijclophoreus Cpr.
by having coarser spiral sculpture by having a more reflexed lip and by being umbilicate.
Vitrinella hemphilli n. sp.
PI.
II figs.
1 3.
Shell small depressed turbinate hyaline translucent polished with indications of irregular growth striae spire acute composed of four convex whorls which are slightly concave below the suture.
The aperture is large peristome acute parietal wall convex with a very thin callus columella concave very narrow umbilicus perspective bordered by a very indistinct angle.
Alt.
1.56 diam.
2.5 mm.
Habitat.
 Cedar Keys Florida collected by H. Hemphill in whose honor it is named.
Types in the collection of the Academy tray number 10236.
This species has a wider umbilicus than Vitrinella multistriata Ver.
and Vitrinella helicoidea Ad. it has a higher spire and more closely coiled whorls than Vitrinella megastoma Ad.
and Vitrinella tryoni Bush.
Discopsis schumoi n. sp.. PI.
II figs.
2 7.
Shell small white moderately polished spire rather acute depressed conic suture impressed whorls three and onehalf somewhat convex sculptured above with a few irregular growth lines crossed by delicate distinct spiral striae which are strongest below the suture and above the periphery.
Peripheral carina very strong base rather flat sculptured with about twelve radial very broad costse or undulations crossed by numerous undulated spiral striae.
The umbilicus is large deep bounded by a heavy cordlike overhanging carina the walls within the umbilicus are concave and smooth.
The aperture is transversely sagittate receding peristome reflexed very obtuse provided with a great prolongation of the peripheral keel the lip is arcuate above but flattened at the base and concave below the keel parietal wall broadly triangular widest above with a very heavy callus which extends forward on the body whorl beyond the aperture and fills the posterior angle of the mouth the columella is concave broadly triangular narrowest above.
Alt.
1.25 diam.
2.47 mm.
Locality.
 Monkey River British Honduras.
The types are in the Academy's collection tray number 76581 and were taken from the anchor of a vessel by Silas L. Schumo in whose honor the species is named.
This shell differs from Discopsis omalos De Folin by the radial sculpture on the base and the projection upon the outer lip and has different basal sculpture from Discopsis costulatum De Folin.
It differs from Colonia radiata Dall by having no longitudinal costse upon the spire and having a large umbilicus.
Omalaxis funiculus contracta n. var.
PI.
11 figs.
4 6.
Shell small white somewhat polished spire flat bounded by a sharp angle whorls about three and onehalf sculptured above with about seven or eight engraved spiral lines which become indistinct as they approach the aperture ten engraved spiral lines are between the edge of the spire and the peripheral keel and eleven between the keel and the umbilicus these lines and the peripheral carina become obsolete near the aperture.
The umbilicus is perspective funnel shaped with smooth sides and surrounded by a sharp carina.
The aperture is suborbicular peristome thick and evenly rounded basal lip with a triangular callus columella thick and very oblique parietal callus ponderous and extending slightly beyond the aperture.
Alt.
1.04 diam.
1.85 mm.
Habitat.
 Monkey River British Honduras.
The type is in the collection of the Academy tray number 106125 taken from the anchor of a vessel by Silas L. Schumo.
This variety is distinguished from Omalaxis funiculus Dall by having a narrower umbilicus.
Teinostoma schumoi n. sp.
PI.
II figs.
5 10.
Shell small imperforate white polished subspherical very compact suture impressed early whorls rather concave in the middle with the surface more or less undulate the penultimate whorl with a spiral groove near the outer suture.
The body whorl has the upper surface sculptured with a series of longitudinal undulations and a spiral cord at the edge.
The face view shows seven widely spaced very heavy spiral cords the two at the periphery being smallest.
The base is imperforate showing two of the spiral cords near the edge and a series of radial indentations bounded on the lower side by an engraved line.
The umbilical region is slightly indented and provided with a few irregular radial growth lines.
The aperture is suborbicular receding outer lip rather acute parietal wall very thick.
The columella is very broad and provided with a ponderous callus.
Alt.
1.51 diam.
2.23 mm.
Locality.
 Porto Barrios and Livingston Guatemala.
The types are in the collection of the Academy tray number 73483 and were found in mud collected from the anchor of a vessel at both places.
This species differs from Teinostoma solida Smith by having radial sculpture on the base by having sculpture on the upper surface and has more spiral costse than Teinostoma hondurasensis and is imperforate.
Teinostoma hondurasensis n. sp.
PI.
II figs.
8 12.
Shell small polished bluewhite translucent spire slightly elevated broadly conic suture impressed whorls four a little convex early whorls smooth with a few indistinct growth striae and a groove following the suture on the penultimate whorl.
Body whorl from above rapidly increasing is smooth highly polished with a groove near the edge which becomes obsolete towards the aperture.
In a face view it shows five spaced subequal spiral cords.
The base is umbilicate with a broad smooth central area bounded by a granulate ridge near the parietal wall which becomes a tuberculate spiral ord and finally a smooth cord at the basal lip.
Two other spaced smooth spiral costse are upon the outer part of the base.
The aperture is suborbicular receding peristome evenly arched moderately thick slightly interrupted by the terminations of two costse near the base basal lip thick columella provided with a broad triangular callus parietal wall very thick umbilicus small.
Alt.
1.04 diam.
1.75 mm.
Habitat.
 Belize and Monkey River British Honduras.
The types are in the Academy's collection tray number 76535 found in mud taken from the anchor of a vessel at both places by Silas L. Schumo.
This species differs from Teinostoma solida Smith by being white smaller umbilicate and having a different number of spiral cords.
It is distinguished from Teinostoma schumoi by being umbilicate and having a different sculpture.
Teinostoma bartschi n. sp.
PI.
II figs 9 11.
Shell minute discoidal bluewhite somewhat translucent near the aperture whorls three and onehalf suture shallow spire very low and evenly arched smooth except for a few indistinct radial costae on part of the penultimate whorl and a few very indistinct spiral lines near the periphery.
The peripheral carina is very large separated from the costa below by a wide furrow.
In the basal view showing four spiral costse the one below the keel is subgranulate near the parietal wall but smooth near the basal lip.
The two costse near the umbilicus are narrower the growth lines are very indistinct.
The umbilicus is wide angular at the edge and separated from the spiral costae by a broad smooth area.
The aperture is orbicular peristome subacute thickened at the terminations of three of the spiral ribs columella concave narrow parietal callus moderate.
Alt.
.71 diam.
1.47 mm.
Locality.
 Porto Barrios and Livingston Guatemala.
Types in the collection of the Academj tray number 76501 found in mud collected from the anchor of a vessel at both towns.
This shell differs from Adeorhis beaui Fisch.
by having a more depressed spire and unequal spiral costse.
It has a wider umbilicus than Teinostoma hondurasensis.
Named in honor of Dr. Paul Bartsch of Washington D. C. Explanation of Plate II.
Figs.
1 3.
 VitrineUa hemphilli.
 Figs.
2 7.
 Discopsis schu7ioi.
Figs.
4 6  Omalaxis fimiculus contrada.
Figs.
5 10.
 Teinostoma schumoi.
Figs.
8 12.
 Teinostoma hondurasensis.
Figs 9 11.
 T iinostoma bartschi.
SOME AUSTRALIAN BEES.
BY T. D. A. COCKERELL.
In 1904 there were 222 species of native bees known frora Australia.
At the present moment January 1913 there are 583 if we include the species described below and 24 others sent for publication but not actually published at the time of writing.
Even this comparatively large number must represent but a small minority of the species actually existing as many districts have never been examined for bees and every new collection contains a considerable percentage of undescribed forms.
The bestexplored district is the region about Mackay Queensland which was for many years the hunting ground of Rowland and Gilbert Turner.
The vicinity of Sydney has furnished a large number of species many also come from Melbourne and the region round about.
Mr. S. W. Fulton has recently collected a most remarkable series of minute bees at Purnong and Croydon all new.
These belong to Prosopid genera but simulate our American species of Perdita and probably have similar flowervisiting habits.
One Euryglossina sulphurella Ckll.
is light yellow like certain of our Perdita species and presumably visits some flower of that color possibly in Australia it would be some Mimosalike plant.
Australia including Tasmania is known to have 47 genera of bees.
This number would be increased if we added some of the recent segregates proposed principally by Perkins.
The genera Euprosopis and Gnathoprosopis of Perkins seem distinct in their typical members and I have described species under them but a perfectly satisfactory dismemberment of Australian Prosopis is hardly possible as yet.
It cannot be doubted that eventually both Prosopis and Euryglossa as represented in Australia will be divided to form additional new genera.
The Australian genera may be grouped as follows the number of species being given in each case 1 Endemic Precinctive genera BinghamieUa 1 Parasphecodes 34 Pachyprosopis 12 Stilpnosoma 1 Meroglossa 15 Callomelitta 2 Trichocolletes 1 Goniocolletes 1 Cladocerapis 1 Andrenopsis 1 Phenacolletes 1 Anthoglossa 4 Turnerella 2 Eunjglossa 57 Euryglossina 8 Euryglossella 1 Euryglossidia 2 Heterapis 3 Hylceoides 4 Neopasiphae 1 Stenotritus 2 Mellitidia 1 Gastropsis 2 Melittosmithia 2 Neoceratina 1 Exoneura 10 Le.s.s 2 Androgynella 1.
It will be seen that these are inainl' Prosopid and Colletid bees.
2 Genus common to Australia and New Zealand but not found elsewhere ParacoUetes 70.
3 Genus common to Australia and the Austromalay Islands Palceorhiza 12.
4 Genera widely distributed over the Eastern Hemisphere but not American  a Genera with very distinct Australian species Saropoda 2.
b Genera with Australian species closely allied to those of Asia AUodape 4 Nomioides 1 Crocisa 11  Thaumatosoma 1.
5 Genera widely distributed in the Eastern and Western Hemispheres a Genera with very distinct Australian species Prosopis 95 Halidus 55 in part Megachile 89.
6 Genera with Australian species closely allied to those of Asia  Sphecodes 1 HaUctus 55 in part Nomada 1 Nomia 36 Xylocopa 1 Anthophora 15 Lithurgus 3 Dianthidhiml Ccelioxys 4 Trigona 8.
By way of contrast it is of interest to compare the bees of Formosa.
I recently studied a large collection from that island and did not find a single endemic genus or subgenus.
Exoneura angophorae Cockerell.
Females collected by H. Hacker at Sunnybank Brisbane September 12j 1911 represent extreme variations of this species as follows a Var.
hackeri nov. white clypeal band extremely broad its upper half broadest and covering the whole width of the clypeus lateral face marks quite large triangular first three abdominal segments with broad dusky bands gently concave posteriorly the bands bending more or less cephalad at sides.
Queensl.
Mus.
3.
b Var.
obliterata nov. clypeal band dusky narrow very obscure no lateral marks first abdominal segment nearly all black except the hind margin broadest in middle and broad hind corners band on second segment reduced to three dusky patches no band on third.
Queensl.
Mus.
1.
iThe Syrian E. libanensis Friese belongs to Exoneuridia Ckll. 1911.
2 Crocisa pantalon Dewitz from Porto Rico is said by Friese to belong to Epeolus.
These look like different species but are apparently only extremevariations of E. angophorce or perhaps a closely allied species which will take the name E. hackeri.
Exoneura hamulata Cockerell.
The clypeal mark in the females varies and the best character to distinguish this species from E. bicolor Smith is the broad face.
Mr. G. MeadeWaldo has kindly compared my determination of E. bicolor with Smith's type and finds it correct allowing for a certain amount of variation in the clypeal stripe he adds the type has the face conspicuously narrowed below.
I have received E. hamulata labelled bicolor and Friese evidently had hamulata as bicolor since in his description of E. froggattii he remarks that bicolor has the inner orbits parallel.
Females of hamulata before me have the following data Windsor Victoria French Froggatt Coll.
161 no locality Nat.
Mus.
Vict.
103 Armidale N. S. W. Nov. 27 1900 Froggatt 163 Moss Bay Dec. 13 1893 Froggatt 158.
In Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist. Oct. 1910 I described a male Exoneura evidently either bicolor or hamulata I thought probably the latter.
I now conclude that it was bicolor as I have before me a different male Stradbroke Island Oct. 2 1911 H. Hacker Queensl.
Mus.
2 which seems to be hamulata.
It is 8 mm.
long with very red wings and differs from the male now supposed to be bicolor by the pale face marking being confined to a large triangular creamcolored clypeal patch one side of which covers the upper end of the clypeus.
The first two abdominal segments and the middle of the third are black.
The flagellum is distinctly dark reddish.
It would seem from the large size and very red wings that this cannot be the male of E. angophorce yet it is a rather suspicious circumstance that two female Exoneura from Stradbroke Island Queensland Sept. 27 1906 Froggatt 145 201 belong to a large 7 mm.
long variety cA E. angophorce having the characteristic abdominal markings of the hackeri type one has a narrow ferruginous clypeal stripe the other has it practically obsolete there are no lateral marks.
The hair on the hind legs is reddish more or less coppery rather than black.
The inner orbits strongly converge below.
These females are certainly not bicolor and of course they are entirely distinct from hamulata they are however surely conspecific with the Brisbane forms of angophorce.
It is possible that the Brisbane and Stradbroke Island forms represent a distinct new species which will then take the name E. hackeri.
It remains for local students to decide this question.
Exoneura bicolor Smith.
Females are labelled thus King I. Tasmania J.
A. Kershaw Nat.
Mus.
Vict.
207 Wattle Flat N. S. W. Froggatt 164 no locality D. F. Hill Nat.
Mus.
Vict. 183 N. Mells.
F. P. Spry Nat.
Mus.
Vict.
254 Croydon S. W. Fulton Nat.
Mus.
Vict.
175.
The last two enumerated have the red of the abdomen very bright and clear.
Exoneura concinnula n. sp.
9.
Length 4 mm.
 like E. froggattii Friese but smaller the clear reddish wings with the stigma and nervures clear light ferruginous femora black red apically tibiae and tarsi chestnut red abdomen red without markings head small face wholly black labrum red hair of hind tibiae and tarsi light red.
Habitat New South Wales Dec. 1 1910 Froggatt 108.
I had taken this for E. froggattii and consequently regarded the true froggattii as new but my specimen of E. froggattii described below is one of the original lot and undoubtedly genuine.
In Friese's account 27 Nov. should apparently read 27 July.
Exoneura fultoni n. sp.
9.
Length 5 mm.
 head and thorax shining black including tubercles  none of the ordinary pale facemarks but lower part of clypeus broadly suffused with red mandibles red except at base and apex legs bright chestnutred including femora hair on outer side of hind tibiae and tarsi dark fuscous wings dilute reddish stigma clear ferruginous abdomen red sometimes dusky at apex not at all banded.
a6ito. Croydon Australia S. W. Fulton Nat.
Mus.
Vict.
238 and 176 in part.
Readily known by the small size red femora and absence of a creamcolored clypeal stripe.
Exoneura froggattii Frie.se.
9.
Length 6 mm.
 head and thorax shining black face narrow wholly without light markings tubercles black flagellum thick reddish beneath wings hyaline slightly grayish stigma and nervures dusky red femora black red at apex tibias and tarsi bright chestnutred abdomen rather slender duskj apically without bands hair on hind tibiae and tarsi entirely light red.
afttoi. Thornleigh N. S. W. ''in cavity of Ethon gall July 27 1895 Froggatt 160.
A specimen with reddish wings apparently a slight variety of this species is from Croydon Fulton Nat.
Mus.
Vict.
176 in part.
The following key will facilitate the determination of Exomura females with red abdomen With lateral facemarks hind legs with much black hair 1 Without lateral facemarks 2 1.
Clypeal band narrow angophorce Ckll.
Clypeal band very broad angophorce hackeri Ckll.
2.
Small species none over 7 mm.
with no light clypeal band though there may be a reddish suffusion 3 Usually larger species never very small nearly always with a wellmarked light clypeal band 5 3.
All the femora red .fultoni Ckll.
Femora wholly or mainly black 4 4.
Length 56 mm.
 stigma dusky .froggattii Friese Length 4 mm.
 stigma clear fulvous concinnula Ckll.
5.
Face broad below clypeal mark usually with a hooklike process on each side above hamulata Ckll.
Face narrowed below 6 6.
Larger and paler hair on outer side of hind tibiae mainly pale abdomen not at all banded bicolor Smith Smaller and darker hair on outer side of hind tibiae black angophorce Ckll.
Size of bicolor but dark the abdomen with evident dusky bands angophorce var.
from Stradbroke L and var.
ohliterata Ckll.
from Brisbane Haliotus leai Cockerell.
Females Blackwall Range March 30 1911 Wild Queensl.
Mus.
28 Woodend Victoria French Froggatt Coll.
97  Brisbane Nov. 11 1905 Froggatt 151.
Male Kelvin Grove Brisbane Nov. 27 1911 Hacker Queensl.
Mus.
45.
The male not before known is more slender about 6 mm.
long clypeus with a broad transverse pale yellowish band which has a large broadly triangular median extension above lower edge of clypeus dark antennae very long black the flagellum crenulate beneath coxae and trochanters dark femora tibiae and tarsi red anterior femora with large dusky shades in front and behind middle femora with slight dusky bands near base basal hairbands of abdominal segments pale and poorly developed apex broadly truncate bright chestnutred.
Binghamiella antipodes Smith.
Warburton Australia Spry Nat.
Mus.
Vict.
253.
Callomelitta picta Smith.
Tasmania A. M. Lea Nat.
Mus.
Vict.
209.
Meroglossa desponsa var.
kershawi n. var.
9 .
Scutellum with a yellow spot at each anterior corner supraclypeal mark higher.
Habitat.
 Two specimens in the National Museum of Victoria 168 169 from the collection of William Kershaw locality not given.
Mr. Kershaw lived in Melbourne.
Euryglossa carnosa n. sp.
9 .
Length 8 mm. broad and robust head and thorax black with the following parts bright chromeyellow clypeus except ferruginous lower edge and two black spots on upper part a small mark on lower part of supraclypeal area lateral facemarks filling space between clypeus and eye and continued upward as large broad lobes bending away from orbit on upper part of front tubercles and broad upper border of prothorax broadly notched by black above in middle small squarish mark behind tubercles broad anterior lateral corners of mesothorax scutellum except two black marks on anterior margin and postscutellum.
Labrum red mandibles slender bidentate yellow at base red beyond black at apex maxillary palpi long and slender face broad scape entirely bright yellow flagellum short bright ferruginous beneath front and mesothorax dullish sparsely punctured tegulse and plate at base of wings bright yellow wings clear the dark redbrown stigma not very large lower side of first s.m.
strongly sinuate recurrent nervures meeting the transversocubitals the very broad second s.m.
with upper side oblique marginal cell obliquely subtruncate at apex end of first t.c.
to end of second on marginal a slightly greater distance than end of second t.c.
to end of marginal legs black as far as same distance beyond middle of femora beyond that bright yellow hind spur with very long spines abdomen very broad black with the hind margins of the segments dark brown and the bases of segments 2 to 4 except at sides 4 dusky also in middle broadly dull pale pinkish ferruginous apex with black hair.
Habitat.
 Purnong S. Australia S. W. Fulton Nat.
Mus.
Vict.
150.
A species of the group of E. aurantifera Ckll.
and E. geminata Ckll. but entirely distinct by the peculiar abdomen.
Euryglossa nigrocserulea nsp.
9.
Length about 9 mm.
 robust head and thorax pure black abdomen dark blue with the hind margins of the segments black legs black the tarsi reddish at apex tegulse piceous or black wings hyaline faintly brownish stigma dark redbrown nervures sepia caudal fimbria black.
A species of the group of E. depressa Sm.
and E. subsericea Ckll. to which it is very closely allied.
It differs from Smith's description of depressa by the narrow facial fovese.
3 the fuscous hair on vertex the flagelknn fulvous beneath except at base and apex hair on inner side of tarsi creamjwhite  abdomen dark blue instead of green.
A female without locality Vict.
Nat.
Mus.
104 which I provisionally refer to E. depressa is narrower than our insect and has much darker wings  the dark green abdomen has the same texture and scattered punctures.
The space between the facial fovea and the eye is smooth shining and almost without punctures contrasting with the adjacent dull and granular front this apparently being the condition rather indefinitely described by Smith.
Compared with E. schomburgki Ckll. E. nigroccerulea differs by the entirely black front blue abdomen black labrum much darker flagellum sides of front without strong punctures dark tegulse wings not reddened nervures and stigma much darker apical fimbria black.
Compared with E. suhsericea the new species is larger face and thorax considerably broader mesothorax more closely and strongl punctured second submarginal cell considerably' longer area of metathorax not so perfectly smooth and shining.
Habitat. Croydon Australia 2 9 S. W. Fulton Nat.
Mus.
Vict.
89 99.
One is dated 11.
1.
09.
Euryglossa tenuicornis n. sp.
cf.
Length about 8 mm.
 moderately robust black without light markings the mandibles red subapically and the hind margins of the abdominal segments dark brown eyes dark reddish head and thorax densely and quite coarsely punctured face and lower half of front with thin long white hair clypeus densely punctured but shining scape ordinary black flagellum very greatly elongated slender fulvous except the last two joints and the apex of the one before which are black the apical joint shining more or less flattened but only very slightly broadened mesothorax and scutellum shining between the very dense punctures those on the scutellum larger than on the mesothorax area of metathorax minutely granular tegulse rather large subtranslucent pale brown wings dusky nervures piceous stigma redder venation normal for Euryglossa b.n.
falling far short of t.m.
 lower side of first s.m strongly curved second s.m.
elongated receiving first r.n.
some distance from its base second r.n.
on inner side making an angle much greater than a right angle where it joins the s.m.
 legs black with thin pale hair the knees and the ends of joints more or less reddish anterior tibiae ferruginous in front abdomen dullish minutely roughened venter flat.
Habitat. Fumong S. Australia 36 S.
W. Fulton Nat.
Mus.
Vict.
134 135 137.
Entirely unique by the very peculiar antennae which approach the condition found in Thaumatosoma a genus of a quite different family.
The bee is not much like the ordinary species of Eurijglossa and perhaps should form the type of a distinct genus.
Euryglossa sinapina n. sp.
cT.
Length about 6 mm.
 black and bright lemonyellow the thorax with thin long pale hair mesothorax and the broad abdomen above black without markings.
Very close to E. sinapipes Ckll. with the description of which it agrees except as follows yellow mark on hind border of scutellum very small and inconspicuous but a larger conspicuous one on postscutellum both marks inclined to be divided into two abdomen above pure black the hind margins of the segments smooth and shining beneath the abdomen is much maculated with yellow and this reaches the extreme sides of segments 4 to 6 eyes pale gray upper end of lateral facemarks very broadly and obtusely rounded flagellum pale orangefulvous more dusky above with a dark mark above at base mesothorax shining legs entirely yellow except the ferruginous small joints of tarsi tegulse opaque light3'ellow with pellucid spot and anterior margin nervures and stigma dilute reddish sepia first r.n.
joining second s.m.
a short distance beyond its base.
The marginal cell is narrowly truncate.
Habitat. Fmnong S. Australia S. W. Fulton Nat.
ISIus.
Vict.
147.
Euryglossa sanguinosa n. sp.
9 .
Length a little over 8 mm. robust head and thorax black with white hair which is quite abundant on face and front tubercles and sides of metathorax face without light markings clypeus shining finely punctured labrum black mandibles chestnutred in middle flagellum bright ferruginous beneath except at base mesothorax shining minutely and densely punctured in front and at sides anteriorly but on the disk with larger sparse punctures area of metathorax shining tegulae rufotestaceous  wings hyaline slightly dusky nervures and stigma dark chestnut lower side of first s.m.
strongly arched second s.m.
long receiving first r.n.
a considerable distance from base legs dark rufous the small joints of tarsi light ferruginous hind spur coarsely pectinate abdomen broad dullish with a sericeous lustre first three segments dark green with the hind margins broadly dark reddish remaining segments clear ferruginous the fourth with a dusky shade at sides venter dark to middle of fourth segment.
.
Habitat.
 Windsor Victoria French Froggatt Coll.
188.
Superficially like a miniature E. hcematura Ckll. but the eyes converge below and the sculpture of the sides of the mesothorax in front is quite different.
Also related to E. terminata Smith but distinguished by the green abdomen with the fourth as well as the fifth segment red.
Also related to E. salaris Ckll. but differing in color and sculpture.
Euryglossa ruberrima n. sp.
9 .
Length about 8 mm. very robust Vjright terracotta red with the head and pleura black mandibles black antennae ferruginous beneath dark above mesothorax large and convex with strong sparse punctures metathorax black at sides posteriorly and extreme base abdomen with conspicuous but suffused blueblack transverse shades on fourth and fifth segments and very slight dusky shades on first to third apex with fuscous hair legs red including coxae and trochanters but anterior femora piceous except beneath and at extreme apex middle femora largely darkened especially behind hind legs entirely clear red tegulae rufous wings strongly reddened.
A species of the E. rubricata group in my table in Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist. Aug. 1910 p. 167 it runs to E. rubricata Sm. from which it differs by the dusky reddened wings the mandibles black with only a red subapical spot the metathorax largely red the tegulae dark reddish and the base of the abdomen entirely red.
Compared with E. frenchii Ckll. it differs by the very strongly though not very densely punctured clypeus and supraclypeal area the suture between them wholly dark the entirely red hind femora and the apex of abdomen darkened the dusky color of the fifth segment leaving a pair of rather poorly defined transversely oval red spots.
From E. leptospermi Ckll.
it differs by the color of the wings the larger head the facial foveas not at all turned mesad at upper end the more sparsely punctured mesothorax the second r.n.
reaching second s.m.
a little more distant from its apex than the first from its base.
Habitat.
 Victoria 1910 Froggatt 149.
It also carries a label with number 1418.
Pachyprosopis haematostoma n. sp.
9.
Length about 6 mm.
 rather robust but head not enlarged head thorax and abdomen shining dark blue labrum and greater part of mandibles red flagellum bright ferruginous beneath cheeks broad mesothorax with very sparse excessively feeble and minute punctures area of metathorax smooth and shining sides of metathorax with thin pale hair tegulse black in front dark redbrown behind wings rather small clear b.n.
very strongly arched not nearly meeting t.m.
 first r.n.
entering first s.m.
some distance before its end second s.m.
very narrow greatly produced above to an acute angle legs piceous slightly metallic the anterior femora quite blue anterior knees tibiae and tarsi and all the other tarsi bright ferruginous red abdomen feebly sculptured pygidial plate very narrow.
Habitat. Croydon Australia 2 9 S. W. Fulton Nat.
Mus.
Vict.
236.
Quite unique by the uniform dark blue color of the bod3 Pachyprosopis atromicans n. sp.
9 .
Length about 5 mm.
 shining black with very little hair tibiae and tarsi bright ferruginous as also are the knees extending into a more or less defined stripe on the middle and hind femora abdomen broad the lateral hind margins of the segments especially the second and third more or less broadly reddish  mandililes with a ferruginous subapical band clypeus brilliantly shining with sparse distinct punctures scape shining black flagellum short and thick clear ferruginous beneath head not enlarged mesothorax brilliantly shining sparsely punctured scutellum shining and punctured but postscutellum granular and dull area of metathorax shining except at extreme base tegulse rufous wings hyaline stigma dilute sepia nervures paler basal nervure yellow second s.m.
broad but the outer upper angle produced as in Pachyprosopis recurrent nervures entering second s.m.
near base and apex the first sometimes meeting the t.c but the second always away from extreme apex of cell claws with an inner tooth far from tip hind spur with long spines abdomen microscopically transversely lineolate.
cf.
Length about 4 mm.
 like the female but the thick flagellum is elongated face whoUj black with thin but conspicuous white hair red on femora more extended last two abdominal segments clear red.
a67fl. Purnong near Murray R. S. Australia 2 916 S. W. Fulton Nat.
Mus.
Vict.
232 220 226 Croydon Australia 19 S. W. Fulton Nat.
Mus.
Vict.
193.
The type is a female from Purnong.
Intermediate between Euryglossa and Pachyprosopis resembling in many ways Euryglossa neglectula Ckll. but especially related to Pachyprosopis nitidiceps Ckll. from which it is known by the shining mesothorax red tibiae etc.
Frosopis asinella n. sp.
cf.
Length about 5 mm.
 black with the face lateral marks reaching sides of front broad short mandibles the thick flattened scape and second antennal joint in front all pale yellow upper border of prothorax tubercles anterior and middle femora apices of hind femora and all the tibiae and tarsi bright lemonyellow scutellum entirely black face rather narrow entirely pale up to level of antennae Supraclypeal area oval with a truncate base lateral facemarks ending above in an obliquesided lobe the tip of which is on orbital margin about the level of middle of front front and thoracic dorsum dull extremely minutely punctured tegulse with a light spot wings clear stigma and nervures dark brown first r.n.
entering apical corner of first s.m.
or meeting first t.c.
these alternatives represented by the opposite wings of the type abdomen short and broad dullish very finely punctured wholly without ventral tubercles flagellum pale ferruginous beneath.
Habitat.
 Purnong vS. Australia S. W. Fulton Nat.
Mus.
Vict. 197.
In my table of Australian Prosopis Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist. Feb. 1910 this runs to P. primulipida Ckll. but differs from that by the much narrower and paler face wholly yellow hind tibiae etc.
From other species it is known by the small size yellow legs and nontuberculate abdomen.
According to the character of the mandibles and scape P. asineUa falls in the genus Gnathoprosopis Perkins.
Prosopis minuscula n. sp.
cJ.
Length about 4f mm. very slender especially the abdomen which has the dorsal suture between the first and second segments constricted black with the following parts yellow reddened by cyanide in type mandibles labrum the long clypeus lateral facemarks shaped like feet on tiptoe convex and extremely shiny tubercles small marks on upper margin of prothorax apical part of coxae trochanters knees stripe on anterior femora behind and short one in front anterior and middle tibiae latter with a blackish spot behind and less than basal half of hind tibiae the supraclypeal area scutella etc. are black and the combination of black femora with yellow trochanters is very peculiar scape yellow in front not swollen flagellum long light fulvous beneath wings clear nervures and the large stigma dark brown first r.n.
meeting first t.c second s.m.
about as high as long abdomen subclavate broadest near the end.
The abdomen is rather coarsely transversely lineolate.
Habitat. Croydon Victoria S. W. Fulton Nat.
Mus.
Vict.
195.
Runs in my table nearest to P. primulipicta which has a much broader face dark trochanters etc.
Prosopis vittatifrons n. sp.
9 .
Length about 4 mm. rather slender head and thorax black with the followmg parts creamcolor mandibles labrum clypeus a broadly triangular supraclypeal mark lateral facemarks extending broadly up to beginning of facial fovese then continued for a short distance as a very fine line between fovea and eye a broad band on each cheek behind eye and elongate mark on front tubercles with extension to upper margin of prothorax white tegulae pellucid legs pale ferruginous the hind ones a little stained with dusky abdomen with the first two segments clear ferruginous the others dark Ijrown the hind margins of the third and fourth more or less pallid or the first two segments may each have a pair of large brown blotches with the third ferruginous crossed and largely covered by a large dark cloud face broad antennae light ferruginous beneath mesothorax dullish microscopically tessellate and punctured wings hyaline faintly dusky stigma and nervures dark brown the two recurrent nervures meeting the transversocubitals second s.m.
a little higher than broad.
cf.
Length a little over 3 mm.
 face light yellow primrosecolor up to level of antennae with an elongate frontal mark as in female the lateral marks shaped like a hand with the indexfinger pointed first abdominal segment dark brown pale ferruginous apically second the same the broad red band notched on each side in front the second segment also red basally remaining segments dark.
Habitat. Furnong S. Austraha 29 2cf S. W. Fulton Nat.
Mus.
Vict.
221 213 145.
The type is a female.Runs in my table to P. constrida Ckll. but is easily known by the elongate frontal mark in both sexes the male constrida has the clypeus etc. white instead of yellow.
Prosopis mediovirens n. sp.
9 .
Length 44 mm.
 head and thorax dark green dullish very finely sculptured with the following parts creamywhite or pinkishwhite labrum mandibles clypeus except a rather broad dark band down each side not reaching lower margin broadly triangular supraclypeal mark lateral marks continued as a band above to beginning of facial fovese small mark on lower part of cheeks tubercles and an interrupted line on upper margin of prothorax  no frontal mark no light mark on scutellum  antennae pale ferruginous beneath tegulae hyaline with a white spot wings clear the large stigma dark brown nervures paler b.n.
nearly reaching t.m.
 recurrent nervures meeting transversocubitals second s.m.
a little broader than high legs very pale yellow or pinkishwhite hind femora dark behind except apically hind tarsi dark at apex abdomen piceous with the hind margin of first segment lroadly notched in front sublaterally  of the second narrowly and the base of the third ferruginous hind margin of third segment more or less pallid.
cf .
Length 3 mm.
 light colors of face prothorax and legs clear lemonyellow  face entirely yellow up to level of antennge  supraclypeal mark larger but upper extension of lateral marks formed as in female scape yellow in front not swollen flagellum light orangefulvous beneath legs bright yellow but the hind legs peculiarly marked the iemora with the apical twofifths brown in front the tibiae with nearly the apical half except a minute apical spot very dark browm the tarsi dark except at base abdomen with two very broad fulvous bands each notched on each side in front venter fulvous.
Habitat. Fmnong S. Australia 59 2cf S'.
TI'.
Fulton Nat.
Mus.
Vict.
227 161 215 235 230.
In my table it runs to 5 and there forms a new section with mesothorax green.
In spite of the different coloration it seems nearer to P. vittatifrons than to any other described species.
The type is a female.
Prosopis chlorosoma n. sp.
9 .
Length hardly 4 mm.
 head and thorax dark green varying to black with a greenish tint scutellum and postscutellum black the following parts are light yellow reddened by cyanide in types  clypeus except a broad band on each side not reaching lower margin hence the light area on clypeus is like a tall hat with the brim turned down broadly triangular supraclypeal mark lateral facemarks forming a band which extends as far as facial foveas basal half of mandibles but not labrum  interrupted line on upper border of prothorax and tubercles.
Tegulse hyaline with a yellow spot wings clear the large stigma and the nervures dark reddishbrown b.n.
nearly reaching t.m.
 recurrent nervures meeting transversocubitals or first r.n.
just reaching basal corner of second s.m.
 second s.m.
about as high as broad femora black with the knees broadly yellow tibiae and tarsi yellow abdomen black.
lesothorax dullish very finely sculptured.
Antennae pale fulvous beneath.
Habitat Croydon Australia 7 9 S. W. Fulton Nat.
Mus.
Vict.
192 191.
In my table this runs to P. albonitens Ckll. a very different species with blue abdomen.
This cannot well be the female of P. minuscula.
Both have a minutely caneellate area of metathorax.
but in minuscula the sculpture is deeper giving a finely pitted effect P. minuscula also lacks the green color and has the b.n.
considerably more remote from the t.m.
Prosopis scintilliformis n. sp.
9 .
Length about 4 mm.
 black much less robust than P. chlorosoma the abdomen especially much narrower head round the face broad mandibles pale yellowish but labrum dark facemarks confined to a rather narrow yellow band along each inner orbit reaching a little above level of antennae flagellum clear ferruginous beneath tubercles and an inconspicuous interrupted line on upper border of prothorax yellow legs black with the knees anterior tibiae in front base of middle tibiae and nearly half of hind tibiae as well as all the basitarsi yellow wings practically as in P. chlorosoma except that first r.n.
enters extreme apical corner of first s.m.
 thorax dullish the microscopical sculpture peculiar the mesothorax and scutellum having a fine but deeply cut tessellation and scattered punctures area of metathorax microscopically coarsely cancellate.
Hahitat.
 Croydon Australia 1 9  mounted on a card with three P. cMorosoma S. W. Fulton Nat.
Mus.
Vict.
192.
In my table this runs near to P. amicula Sm. a much larger and otherwise different species.
It is rather to be compared with the minute P. scintilla Ckll. from which it is readily known by the light tubercles etc.
I suspect that it may be the female of P. minuscula but without better evidence of this it seems best to regard it as distinct.
Prosopis xanthosphsera n. sp.
9.
Length almost 10 mm.
 robust black the abdomen faintly greenish especially toward the apex markings on head and thorax brilliant chromeyellow as follows a large broad patch on each side of face shaped something like a turtle's head in profile obliquely truncate above very obtusely pointed below tubercles broadly but no patch behind a large round patch on scutellum and postscutellum crossed by a black sutural line.
Mandibles broad tridendate at apex chpeus flattened and minutely roughened in middle distinctly but not densely punctured antennae entirely black front and vertex with coarse black hair mesothorax dullish strongly and rather closely punctured area of metathorax with about the basal third very coarsely corrugated in complete contrast with the rest which is without evident sculpture tegulae black punctured anteriorly wings hyaline very faintly dusky b.n.
only gently arched nearlj' reaching t.m.
 first r.n.
entering extreme basal corner of second s.m which is elongate much broader than high legs black partly ornamented with silverywhite hair last joint of anterior tarsi reddened abdomen shining with rather small but strong punctures apex with black hair.
Habitat.
 King Island Tasmania J.
A. Kershaw Vict.
Nat.
Mus.
206.
Runs in my table to P. rotundiceps Sm. but the head is not round the flagellum is black and the abdomen is not minutely and closely punctured.
Prosopis leucosphaera n. sp.
9 .
Length a little over 9 mm.
 robust black with the abdomen obscurely dark bluish clypeus wholly black dullish with very shallow punctures lateral facemarks a sort of dilute orange large cuneiform obtuse below somewhat obliquely broadly truncate above antennae black the flagellum with a contrasting bright ferruginous stripe beneath lower part of front broadly elevated in middle vertex with coarse black hair mesothorax strongly and ciuite densely punctured tubercles creamcolor a large circular creamcolored patch on scutellum and postscutellum crossed by a black sutural line area of metathorax coarsely corrugated at base tegulse black punctured in front wings hyaline very faintly dusky first r.n.
entering basal corner of the long second s.m.
 legs and abdomen essentially as in P. xanthosphcera but punctures of second abdominal segment smaller and closer.
Habitat. Croydon Australia S. W. Fulton Nat.
Mus.
Vict.
167.
Closel' related to P. xanthosphcera differing not only in color of the markings but also in the finer punctures of the second abdominal segment.
In my table of Prosopis it can be run to 12 or to 38 running out at either place' because of the creamcolored patch on the scutella.
Prosopis chromatica Cockerell.
Stradbroke Island H. Hacker Queensl.
Mus.
66.
One male taken Oct. 2 1911.
Prosopis hsematopoda n. sp.
9.
Length about 7 mm.
 tilered and black like P. lateralis Smith of which it may be a subspecies.
It differs from lateralis by the lateral facemarks which are orange instead of white and the femora entirely red as also the middle and hind trochanters.
Tibise and tarsi entirely red metathorax entirely dull black the area roughened and shaped like the profile of a cup first r.n.
entering second s.m.
a considerable distance from its base.
Antennse entirely red.
Habitat. .
Australia Waterhouse Nat.
Mus.
Vict.
149.
Prosopis proxima Smith var.
a.
A female from Purnong S. Australia S. W. Fulton Nat.
Mus.
Vict.
148 differs a little from the type in having the lateral facemarks white without any trace of yellow and the hind tibia
with a dull white mark at base.
The tubercles have the apical half white and there are two white marks on the prothorax above.
The axillae are red.
Prosopis chrysognatha Cockerell.
A male from Frankston Victoria T. Kershaw Dec 1902 Nat.
Mus.
Vict.
160 seems to have the faintest possible bluish tint on the abdomen so faint that it is difficult to be sure of it.
If run in my table among the species with metallic abdomen it goes straight to P. cognata Sm. which is evidently very closely allied.
Smith's cognata is from Champion Bay and Swan River and has a dark blue abdomen.
The female described by Smith is to be considered the type.
I have described the female of chrysognatha and it is not identical with cognata.
Prosopis alcyonea Erichson.
Mordialloc Nat.
Mus.
Vict.
186.
Euprosopis elegans Smith.
Prosopis elegans Smith.
From the National Museum of Victoria come 5 9 20 187 152 170 251 188 151 153 the localities are Croydon S. W. Fulton S. Australia W. Kershaw and Fern Tree Gully Victoria F. P. Spry.
The males without locality collected by C. F. Hill have the postscutellum with only a small yellow spot or patch.
Euprosopis nodosicornis n. sp.
cf .
Length 6 mm.
or a little over like E. elegans var.
sydneyana Ckll.
 with the postscutellum broadly yellow but differing thus malar space longer its length 270 microns the bright ferruginous flagellum with the last four joints thick with large irregular tubercles above the three before these subtuberculate.
The abdomen has the first two segments and the sides of the third red the first segment with a diamondshaped dusky discal mark.
The sides of the mesothorax are broadly yellow.
Stigma bright ferruginous.
a6ta Australia no locality given C. F. Hill Vict.
Nat.
Mus.
155.
Kegachile semiluctuosa Smith.
National Museum Victoria Murray 17.
W. Australia F. Duboulay Nat.
Mus.
Vict.
6.
M. famipennis Smith.
Tennant's Creek C.S. Australia Field Nat.
Ius.
Vict.
3 4.
M. monstrosa Smith.
Glenrowan Nat.
Mus.
Vict.
25.
The ventral scopa is white with a slight creamy tint.
M. cornifera Radoszkowski is larger but not more than a variety or race M. monstrosa cornifera.
Saropoda bombiformis Smith.
New South Wales Nat.
Mus.
Victoria 129 Toowms Queensland Nat.
Mus.
Vict.
128 Studley Park a male with alxlomen unusually pale Nat.
Mus.
Vict.
122.
The Toowms female Avas received by the Iuseum from Mr. Annear.
Anthophora rhodoscymna Cockerell.
Male more robust than usual abdomen 6 mm.
wide New South Wales Nat.
Mus.
Vict.
118.
A. pulchra Smith.
Kelvin Grove Brisbane Nov. 20 1911 Hacker.
Nomia australica Smith.
Brisbane Queensland Nov. 27 1911 Hacker.
N. flavoviridis Cockerell.
Sunnybank Brisbane Jan. 17 1912 Hacker.
This is a variety identical with Turner's 999 Jan. 1898 from Mackay.
N. muSCOSa Cockerell.
Kelvin Grove Brisbane Nov. 20 1911 Hacker Brisbane Nov. 2 1908 HamlynH arris.
Lestis bombylans Fb..
Grampians Nat.
Mus.
Vict.
126.
The front is much broader in male homhylans than in L. aerata the facemarkings in unaltered specimens are bright chromeyellow not red.
A female from Plenty R. Nat.
Mus.
Vict.
127 has dark wings like L. aerata but it belongs with bombylans.
It possibly represents a distinct race.
NOTES ON CATOSTOMOID FISHES.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
The material forming the basis of the present paper is contained in the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Cycleptus elongatus Le Sueur.
One adult from St. Louis IVIissouri and another from Kiskiminitas River Pennsylvania.
Genua AMBLODON Rafinesque.
This name is allowed to supersede Idiohus Rafinesque now largely in use.
Amblodon is based on two species Amhlodon buhalus Rafinesque and Amblodon niger Rafinesque.
Jordan and Gilbert have designated Amblodon bubcdus Rafinesque   in part Aplodinotus grunniens Rafinesque as the type and thus Amblodon would become a synonym of Aplodinotus according to their ruling.
However as Amblodon bubcdus Rafinesque the type species of Amblodon Rafinesque applies primarily to the smallmouthed buffalo I cannot accept their contention.
MEGASTOMATOBUS subgen.
nov.
Type Sckrognathus cyprinella Valenciennes.
Mouth large oblique terminal and upper lip about level with lower edge of eye.
Lips thin nearlj smooth.
Pharyngeals weak.
This name is proposed for the largemouthed buffaloes as Sckrognathus Valenciennes usually attributed to them has Catostoinus cijprinus Le Sueur its first species designated as the type by Jordan and Gilbertand is thus a synonym of Carpiodes Rafinesque.
.
'' large TTij.a mouth 5'j9 buffalo.
Amblodon cyprinella Valenciennes.
Four from Leavenworth.
Kansas four from Wheatland Iowa.
Amblodon bubalus Rafinesque.
One from Blue River Indiana three from near Leavenworth Kansas two from ''Western United States three without data.
1 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1877 p. 85.
2 L. c p. 89.
Carpiodes carpio Rafinesque.
Carpiodes nummifer Cope Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. XI 1870 p. 484.
Wabash River Indiana.
No.
6645 A. N. S. P. type of Carpiodes nummifer Cope.
Wabash River Indiana.
E. D. Cope.
Also three others from the Wabash River two from Calhoun one from Brownsville and one from St. Joseph Missouri one from the Platte River Nebraska one without data.
This species has never been recorded from Pennsylvania as it is not mentioned by Cope and Bean includes it as hypothetical.
Its admission to this fauna is now certain as two examples from the Beaver River secured by Cope in 1880 are before me.
As it is said to be an inhabitant of our larger western streams or rivers seldom entering the smaller ones its extinction if not already accomplished is very likely inevitable in western Pennsylvania.
Carpiodes thompsoni Agassiz One from Lake Erie and another from Saginaw Bay JMichigan.
I secured an example at Erie Pennsylvania on July 5th 1907 besides examining several others at this place the same time.
These examples are the basis of the only positive record for this species in Pennsylvania limits.
Carpiodes cyprinus Le Sueur.
Seven examples from the Conestoga Creek in Lancaster County Pennsylvania.
It is knowTi to the fisherman at Octoraro Conowingo and Bald Friar along the Susquehanna in vlaryland usually as white carp or ''Susquehanna carp.
Carpiodes tumidus Baird and Girard.
Large example from Tampico Mexico two small examples without data.
Carpiodes difformis Cope.
Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. XI 1870 p. 480.
Wabash River Indiana.
No.
22093 A. N. S. P. type Wabash River Indiana.
E. D. Cope.
One from Port Beido one without data.
This species has not been definitely recorded from Pennsylvania by Cope though mentioned as likely to occur.
One before me from the Youghiogheny River in western Pennsylvania and secured by Cope assures its admission to our fauna.
Carpiodes cutisanserinus Cope Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. XI 1870 p. 481.
Kiskiminitas River western Pennsylvania.
No.
6649 A. N. S. P. type.
Kiskiminitas River western Pennsylvania.
E. D. Cope.
Known only from the type.
Though united with Carpiodes difformis by some writers it is evidently a distinct species as pointed out by its describer.
It differs chiefly in the position of the mouth which opens in front anterior to the nostrils though its peculiar snubnosed physiognomy is very suggestive of Carpiodes difformis.
Carpiodes velifer Rafinesque.
One from the Wabash River Indiana and another from the Blue River Indiana.
Two examples from the Youghiogheny River secured by Cope are the basis of the first definite record for the species in that stream in Pennsylvania.
Carpiodes selene Cope.
Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phik. XI 1870 p. 481.
Root River Michigan.
Nos.
6647 type and 6648 A. N. S. P. cotypes.
Root River Michigan.
E. D. Cope.
This appears to be a distinct species and not at all identical with Carpiodes thompsoni as suggested by some writers.
Its affinities are with Carpiodes difformis and Carpiodes cutisanserinus as pointed out by Cope.
Carpiodes elongatus Meek.
Four examples from Del Rio Texas.
These were WTongly identified by me as Carpiodes grayi Cope. NOTOLEPIDOMYZON subgen.
nov.
Type Pantosteus arizonae Gilbert Jordan and Evermann.
Scales along predorsal region and back all well enlarged less than twenty between the occiput and origin of dorsal and contrasting with the small scales in the lateral line.
A single species in the Gila basin.
Voro back ''si9 scale iJo'dw to suck with reference to the large dorsal scales anteriorly.
Pantosteus arizonae Gilbert Jordan and Evermann.
Eight from the Rio San Francisco in the Gila Basin New Mexico.
Pantosteus generosus Girard.
Two from the Weber River at Echo and one from Logan Utah.
Also two from Western United States likely Utah.
Pantosteus plebeius Baird and Girard.
Catostomus plebeius Baird and Girard Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
.Sci.
Phila. 1854 p. 28.
Rio Membres basin of Lake Guzman Mexico.
No.
6786 A. N. S. P. cotype of Catostomus plebeius Baird and 3 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1904 p. 242.
Girard.
Rio Membres Mexico.
J. H. Clark.
From the Smithsonian Institution No.
168.
Eight from Watrita Creek Colorado five from Nutria and two from Fort Wingate New Mexico.
Pantosteus santaanae Snyder.
Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XXXIV 1908 p. 33.
Santa Ana River near Riverside California.
No.
39129 A. N. S. P. paratype.
Riverside California.
Prof. J.
0.
Snyder.
Pantosteus delpMnus Cope.
Two from Provo Utah.
Catostomus latipinnis Baird and Girard.
One from Fort Bridger Wyoming.
It may be stated that Eurystomus Rafinesque proposed in 1820 is preoccupied by Viellot in 1816 and Acomus Girard proposed in 1856 is preoccupied by Reichenbach in 1852.
Both Viellot and Reichenbach's names were used for birds.
Thus Eurystomus and Acomus are very fortunately erased as subgenera of Catostomus.
Catostomus retropinnis Jordan.
One hundred and ten examples from the Yellowstone River at Camp Thorne.
Catostomus occidentalis Ayres.
CaloHlomus labiatus Ayres Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Sci. 1855 p. 32.
Stockton California.
No.
6741 A. N. S. P. typical
of Catostomus labiatus Ayres.
Sacramento River at Stockton California.
W. O. Ayres.
A smaller example from the same donor labelled California and another from the Russian River in California Cope.
These all agree in the small scales on the belly between 65 and 70 counted from the gillopening anteriorly to the ventral origin.
The figure of Catostomus occidentalis given by Evermann and Meek does not agree with these examples as both it and .that of Catostomus tsiltcoose7isis Evermann and Meek show the breast naked and the scales on the lower part of the abdomen not smaller than those just below the lateral line.
Catostomus occidentalis humboldtianus Snyder.
Catostomus humboldtianus Snyder Bull.
Bur.
Fisher. XXVII 1907 p. 163 fig.
1.
Bear Eel and Mad Rivers California.
Nos.
39131 and 39132 A. N. S. P. paratypes of Catostomus humboldtianus Snyder.
Mad Creek Oregon.
Prof. J. O. Snyder. 
Bull.
U. S. F.
Com. XVII 1897 1898 p. 69.
1913.1 49 Catostomus occidentalis lacusanserinus subsp.
nov. Catostomus labiatus part Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1883 p. 150.
Goose Lake Oregon.
Not of Ayres.
Head 4 depth 4 D. iv 10 i A. iii 6 i P. i 15 V. i 9 scales 66 in lateral line to caudal base and 4 more on latter 14 scales above lateral line 11 scales below lateral line to ventral origin 9 scales below lateral line to anal origin 40 scales before dorsal head width If its length head depth at occiput If snout 2 eye 7 mouth width 6 maxillary 3 interorbital 2f  first branched dorsal ray 1 first Ijranched anal ray 1 least depth of caudal peduncle 2 upper caudal lobe 1 pectoral If ventral If.
Body elongate rather robust sides moderately compressed upper profile a little more convex than lower greatest depth at dorsal origin and all edges convex.
Caudal peduncle compressed its least depth 1 its length.
Fig.
1.
 Catostomus occidentalis lacusanserinus subsp.
nov. Head moderate quite robust sides compressed with slightly convex surfaces and upper and lower surfaces equally broad.
Snout elongate conic upper profile with rather deep depression anteriorly length about equals width.
Eye high a little elongate or ellipsoid and centre midway in head length.
Mouth small inferior snout protruding beyond mandible about half an eyediameter.
Jaws with quite fleshy edges that of upper somewhat trenchant and lower broadly obtuse.
Disk of lips quite large length H in snout.
Upper lip quite broad rather thin slightly protuding in front beyond snout tip with two or three series of quite large inner papillae and four or five series of outer and much smaller ones.
Lower lip cleft medianly behind nearly forward to symphysis thick fleshy and with about seven series of papillae at widest part median inner ones largest.
Tongue thick little developed not free well back.
Mandibular rami short high in mouth.
Nostrils large' together posterior much larger directly before and close to eye so that frenum falls about last fourth in snout length.
Interorbital broadly convex.
Preorbital about 1 in snout its width about half its own length.
Infraorbital much narrower than preorbital.
Preopercular ridge obsolete and vertical.
Opercle smooth width about If its depth.
Occipital fontanelle well developed extends forward close behind level of hind eye margins rather narrow.
Gill opening extends forward for last fourth in head.
Gillrakers 11  7 6 upper ones lanceolate about  length of longest filaments and all flexible.
Filaments 2 in snout.
Pseudobranchise much smaller than filaments.
Pharyngeal bones rather small with moderately small teeth below but gradually enlarged above till uppermost 6 much larger cuneate compressed and all uniserial.
Isthmus broad.
Branchiostegals 3 robust subequal.
Scales all smaller and more crowded on anterior portion of body those on breast much smaller and completely covering that region.
Scales on belly much smaller than those on predorsal region of back.
No free axillary scaly flaps scales in those regions all adnate.
Body scales distributed in longitudinal series parallel with lateral line.
Latter complete extends in nearly straight course along side medianly and each tube well exposed back nearly to hind edge of scale where it ends often with a slight notch or emargination.
Rays of anal and lower lobe of caudal each with a series of wellspaced tubercles and scales along lower surface of caudal peduncle also show traces of similar tubercles possibly one to each scale.
Dorsal origin very slightly nearer snout tip than caudal base first branched ray longest or reaching back slightly beyond base of last branched ray and depressed fin extends 1 to caudal base.
Anal inserted about opposite hind end of depressed dorsal rays all greatly branched distally and depressed fin extends back slightly beyond caudal base.
Caudal moderate well emarginated behind and lobes with rounded ends.
Pectoral low rather broad extends back If to ventral origin.
Latter inserted just behind base of third branched dorsal ray fin 1 to anal origin and depressed hind edge slightly emarginated.
Vent close before anal.
Color in alcohol largely dull brownish lower surfaces pale creamybrown.
Head pale brown much lighter below.
Lips pale like lower surface of head.
Iris brassy pupil slaty.
Along side of body medianly from behind gillopening to caudal base also largely including lateral line in its course a distinct dusky streak and though illdefined above and below along its edges its width equals at least two eyediameters.
At caudal base it is slightly reflected out on base of that fin.
Dorsal and caudal otherwise largely tinted with brownish.
Other fins pale or more or less tinted like belly.
Pectoral slightly brownish above and towards its tip.
Length 12 inches caudal tips slightly damaged.
Type No.
19990 A. N. S. P. Goose Lake Oregon.
1879E. D. Cope.
Only known from the above example.
It differs from Catostoiuhf occidentalis in the dark lateral streak.
The very small scales on thi body from the throat to the ventral origin number about 80 in series while my examples of C. occidentalis show between 65 and 70 Named for Goose Lake Oregon.
Catostomus snyderi Gilbert.
Head 4 to 4f  depth 4f  D. iv 10 i A. iii 6 i scales pockets' about 60
in 1.
1. to caudal base and 4 more on latter 12 scales above 1.
1. 8 scales below 1.
1. to anal origin 31 to 33 predorsal scales snout 2 to 2 J in head eye 6 to 6  mouth width 4 to 4 interorbital 2.
Gillrakers 1610 8.
Scales between front of isthmus and ventral origin 43 or 44.
Length 15 and 16f inches.
Two examples from Klamath Lake Oregon from E. D. Cope in 1879.
Cope's reference to Klamath Lake material as Catostomus labiatus cannot refer to these specimens.
He later states that his largest example is twelve inches long and gives the following points at variance Scales 10  74  11 radii D. i 11 V. 10 head 4.5 times in length eye 5.5 in head.
Prof. Snyder has kindly examined two typical examples in Stanford University.
They are from the upper Klamath Lake.
He writes as follows Scales in lateral line to end of last vertebra 74  72 scales on base of caudal beyond the above 3  3 scales between isthmus and origin of ventral about 40 in one example.
The last count is doubtful on account of irregularity in the rows and the poor preservation of the specimens.
Catostomus catostomus Forster.
Four small examples without data.
Catostomus warnerensis Snyder.
Bull.
Bur.
Fisher. XXVII 1908 p. 81.
Warner Creek slough.s .outh and Honej Creek Oregon.
No.
39130 A. N. S. P. paratype.
Warner Creek Lake County Oregon.
Prof. J.
0.
Snyder.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 188.3 p. 150.
The other examples were all obtained by Cope who records them as Catostomus tahoensis.
They include three from Warner's Third Lake in Oregon and one from high land between Warner's Lake and Goose Lake three from Pyramid Lake Nevada.
Catostomus commersonnii LacpMe.
Catostomus alticolus Cope Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. XI 1874 p. 138.
Twin Lakes Colorado.
Nos.
18729 and 18730 A. N. S. P. paratypes of Catostomus alticolus Cope.
Twin Lakes head of Arkansas River at 9500 feet elevation Colorado E. D. Cope.
Also numerous other examples examined though those which I have already recorded elsewhere are not included in the following list of localities.
Boston Massachusetts Lake Champlain Lake Erie Chadd's Ford Junction Willistown Barrens Langford Run Whetstone Run Collar Brook CoUingdale Fairmount Park Sandy Run Willits Run all near Philadelphia Saucon Creek Monocacy Creek and Lime Kiln Run near Bethlehem and North Branch of Altman Creek in Indiana County Pennsylvania Deer Creek near The Rocks Harford County Maryland Roanoke River Holston River and Stroubles Creek in the Kanawha River Basin Virginia Catawba and French Broad Rivers North Carolina Cleveland Ohio Miami River and Richmond Indiana Brook River and Fayette Iowa Marshfield and Calhoun Missouri Clopell River in 1873.
Catostomus commersonnii sucklii Girard.
Twentyfour examples from Camp Thorne Yellowstone River E. D. Cope.
These all agree in having the dorsal origin inserted midway between the snout tip and the caudal base a character virtually expressed in Girard's original description.
Compared with numerous examples of Catostomus cofmnersonnii the dorsal origin was found in all examples examined except the very young nearer the snout tip than the caudal base.
Catostomus ardens Jordan and Gilbert.
One from Utah Lake E. D. Cope in 1882 Utah.
Nine from Snake River at Springfield Bingham County Dr. Henry Skinner in Augu.st 1906 Idaho.
Catostomus gila Kirsch.
One from New Mexico E. D. Cope in 1872 and three more from the same State in the Rio San Francisco of the Gila Basin Arizona.
8 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1883 p. 152.
CatOStomus insignis Baird and Girard.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1854 p. 28.
Rio San Pedro Arizona.
No.
6785 A. N. S. P. type.
Rio San Pedro Arizona.
J. H. Clark.
From the Smithsonian Institution No.
169.
CatOStomus nigricans Le Sueur.
Many examples from North Branch of Altman Creek Indiana County Pennsylvania West Branch of Deer Creek Harford County Maryland Roanoke River Holston River and Sinking Creek Virginia Coal Creek North Carolina Cumberland River Tennessee Miami River and Richmond Indiana Brook River and Des Moines Iowa Marshfield Missouri.
Besides these many others which I have recorded elsewhere.
Lipomyzon liorus Jordan.
Three from Utah Lake E. D. Cope in 1882 Utah'.
In the original account of Chasmistes Jordan'' Catostomus fecundus Cope and Yarrow is designated as the type.
This action appears to me sufficient for an a priori claim to the definition.
The latter was afterwards pointed out to refer to the present genus with Chasmistes liorus Jordan as its type. Chasmistes liorus Jordan was also confused originally by its describer with Catostomus fecundus Cope and Yarrow.
Though this latter species is correctly allowed in Catostomus possibly Chasynistes may stand as a distinct subgenus being distinguishable from the others by its pointed snout above.
In any case Chasmistes brevirostris Cope cannot be included with it wrongly so suggested by Jordan and Evermann as it has been designated the type of Lipomyzon the only name available for the present largemouthed forms.
Lipomyzon brevirostris Cope.
Chasmistes brevirostris Cope Amer.
Nat. XIII 1879 p. 785.
Klamath Lake Oregon.
No.
20959 A. N. S. P. cotype type of Chasmistes brevirostris Cope.
Klamath Lake Oregon.
E. D. Cope.
No.
20522 A. N. S. P. cotype same data.
The statement made by Cope that this species differs from Deltistes luxatus in having the snout  without the hump produced by the protuberant premaxillary spines is not true.
Both of my examples show something of a hump though much more obtuse and smaller 'Bull Geol.
Surv.
Hayden IV 1878 p. 417.
'Jordan and Gilbert Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. No.
16 1882 p. 131.
9 Jordan I.e. No.
12 1878 p. 150.
L.c. No.
47 I 1896 p. 199. 
Jordan and Gilbert I.e. No.
16 1882 p. 131. than in Deltistes.
Gilbert mentions two Klamath Lake species of Chasmistes.
Chasmistes stomias Gilberthas a larger deeper head with larger more obliquely placed mouth and conspicuously protruding premaxillary spines.
The scales are 76 to 82 and thus this nominal form appears more clearly identical with Chasmistes brevirostris than the form he lists under that name. Chasmistes copei Evermann and Meek has 80 scales and is said to differ from Chasmistes stomias Gilbert in its larger head larger more oblique mouth less prominent snout and very small fins.
The differences in the fins are very great particularly in the ventrals.
In the case of Gilbert's figure of Chasmistes stomias a spawningfish is shown thus the ventrals and anal are unusually long.
Chasmistes chamherlaini Rutter  agrees with all the forms of Lipomyzon so far as known in having the lower lip united at the mandibular symphysis and differs in having 93 scales.
PITHECOMYZON subgen.
nov.
Type Chasmistes cujus Cope.
Differs from subgenus Lipomyzon Cope in the large scales these about 65 in the lateral line 70 to 90 in Lipomyzon.
UtOrj. ape with reference to the short snout m6Cw to suck.
Lipomyzon cujus Cope.
Chasmistes cujus C9pe Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1883 p. 149.
Pyramid Lake Nevada.
No.
20523 A. N. S. P. type of Chasmistes cujus Cope.
Pyramid Lake Nevada.
E. D. Cope.
It only measures 17 inches which may be due to the body having been skinned out and shrinking in alcohol.
Cope gives the eye as 8 likely the actual diameter of the eye and not the orbital socket.
Deltistes luxatus Cope.
Chasmistes luxatus Cope Amer.
Nat. XIII 1879 p. 784.
Klamath Lake Oregon.
No.
20555 A. N. S. P. cotype type of Chasmistes luxatus Cope.
Klamath Lake Oregon.
E. D. Cope.
No.
20960 A. N. S. P. cotype same data in poor preservation.
Xyrauchen texanus Abbott.
Catostomus texanus Abbott Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1860 p. 473.
Colorado and New Rivers.
No.
16993 A. N. S. P. type of Catostomus texanus Abbott.
Bull.
U. S. F.
Com. XVII 1897 1898 p. 5. fig.
13 L.c.
 L.c p. 70 fig.
15 L.c XXII 1902 1904 p. 147.
Eagle Lake California.
Colorado and New Rivers.
Dr. J. L. Le Conte.
In locating this interesting dried example it is now possible to give its correct place among the catostomoids after fiftytwo years of oblivion and erroneous identification.
It is unquestionably identical with Catostomus cypho Lockington which was also described in these Proceedings twenty years later and Lockington's specific name is the one adopted by all writers as it was thought to have been the first ever given to this peculiar fish.
Jordan says' Catostomus texanus Abbott is less clear than Catostomus chloropteron Abbott but what there is of specific characterization in the description points to C. teres.
The dorsal carination is frequently observed in stuffed fishes in which some flesh is left in the back to shrink in drying leaving the back 'carinated.'
These entirely erroneous suggestions were made of course shortly before the species was supposed to have been discovered by Lockington.
Still further confusion is added bj' its inclusion as a synonym of Moxostoma congestum Baird and Girard by Jordan and Evermann.
' The specific name texanus is unfortunate as the species is not known from Texas.
It appears to have been given under the impression that the Colorado River of that State was intended together with the New River being likely confused with the Neuces River.
Besides the above example is another specimen from the Hardy River in Lower CaHfornia secured by Mr. S. N Rhoads in February of 1905.
It is important as showing to what extent variation may reach in the species.
It has 86 scales in the lateral line to the caudal base and 5 more on the latter.
The type shows 73 scales in the lateral line to the caudal base and 4 more on the latter.
As both are adult examples it would appear hardly likely that Xyrauchen uncomphagre Jordan and Evermann is a distinct species as it is said to have but 81 scales with other characters apparently varietal or due to age.
Erimyzon sucetta Lacepede.
Moxostoma hennerlyi Girard Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1856 p. 171.
Drj' Creek Victoria Texas.
No.
6797 A. N. S. P. cotype of Moxostoma kennerlyi Girard Dry Creek Victoria Texas.
Dr. C. B. Kennerly.
From the Smithsonian Institution No.
161.
16 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1880 p. 237.
Colorado River at the junction of the Gila.
1' Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. No.
12 1878 pp.
167 169.
18 Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. No.
47 I 1896 p. 192.
Also an example from Thomasville J.
A. G. Rehn on March 25 1904 Georgia.
Erimyzon sucetta oblongas Mitchill.
Moxostoma claviformis Girard Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1856 p. 171.
Coal Creek Canadian River Indian Territory.
No.
6798 A. N. S. P. cotype of Moxostoma claviformis Girard.
Coal Creek Canadian River Indian Territory.
H. B. Mollhausen.
From the Smithsonian Institution No.
165.
Besides the very large series of examples from numerous localities in the Middle Atlantic States are others from Richmond Virginia Hicksville Ohio Marshfield Missouri Fort Smith Arkansas.
Minytrema melanops Rafinesque.
Ptychostomus pidiensis Cope Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. XI 1870 p. 471.
Yadkin River North Carolina.
Nos.
6968 type to 6970 A. N. S. P. cotypes of Ptychostomus pidiensis Cope.
Yadkin River North Carolina.
E. D. Cope.
These examples are undoubtedly the present species as they show the airvessel in two compartments and the bases of the scales spotted.
The adults Cope mentions in his description evidently were not preserved as they are not in his collections.
Also one from the Ohio River one from Indiana one from Del Rio in Texas and one from Hartford in Arkansas.
The last a very young example I wrongly identified as Catostomus nigricans' Forbes and Richardson state that this species ranges on ''the Atlantic Slope from New Jersey to North Carolina though there is no evidence whatever of its occurrence in New Jersey so far as I know of.
Further in view of the lack of detail the single record for its occurrence in the Susquehanna River basin may also be questioned.
Moxostoma anisurum Rafinesque.
Ptychostomus velatus Cope Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. XI 1870 p. 470.
Youghiogheny River Pennsylvania.
Nos.
6954 type and 6955 A. N. S. P. paratypes of Ptychostomus velatus Cope.
Youghiogheny River Pennsylvania.
E. D. Cope.
One from the Beaver River Cope in 1880 Pennsylvania one from the Blue River and another from the Wabash River Indiana.
The last example was identified by Cope with the following species but it has a slightly larger mouth and lips.
'3 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1904 p. 243.
20 Fishes of Illinois 1908 p. 83.
Mozostoma collapsum Cope.
Plychosiomus collapsus Cope Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. XI 1870 p. 471.
Neuse Yadkin and Catawba Rivers North Carolina.
Nos.
6949 type and 6950 A. N. S. P. cotypes of Ptychostomus collapsus Cope.
Neuse River North Carolina.
E. D Cope.
Also two others without locality but probably from the Western States or Great Lakes Cope.
Moxostoma COngestum Baird and Girard .
Four from Del Rio Texas.
Moxostoma austrinum T. H. Bean.
Three from Rio Verde Mexico.
Moxostoma robustum Cope.
Ptychostomus robust us Cope Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. XI 1870 p. 473.
Yadkin River North Carolina.
Head 4f  depth 3 to 3 D. iv 11 i or iv 12 i A. iii 6 i V. all I 8 scales 41 to 45 in lateral line to caudal base and 3 more on latter 6 or 7 scales above lateral line 5 scales below lateral line 15 to 17 predorsal scales snout 2 to 2 in head eye 4 mouth width 4 to 5 interorbital 2 length 10
to 11 inches.
No.
6958 and 6959 A. N. S. P. cotypes
of Ptychostomus robustus Cope.
Yadkin River North Carolina.
E. D. Cope.
These examples agree with Cope's account in the compressed and rather stout body moderate head and few dorsal rays.
Moxostoma erythrurum Rafinesque.
Ptychostomus bucco Cope Rep. Geol.
Surv.
Wyom.
Hayden 1870 1871 p. 437.
St. Joseph Missouri.
Nos.
6961 to 6964 A. N. S. P. cotypes of Ptychostomus bucco Cope.
St. Joseph Missouri.
Three without data fortynine from the Holston River Virginia two from the Catawba River and three from the French Broad in North Carolina twelve from the Blue River and one from the Wabash River Indiana one from Sedalia Missouri one from Ottumwa Iowa.
Also a large series of Pennsylvania material from the Youghiogheny River Kiskiminitas River and Indiana County at Cowanshanoc Elders Run Grant Township Home Run in Payne Township Indiana Pine Township and Cherry Run.
Most of these have been recorded as Moxostoma aureolum in accordance with subsequent restriction to that by Cope in 1870.
An examination of all the material before me however appears to justify Cope's conclusions and for that reason I allow the largeheaded species to fall with Rafinesque's name.
The Ptychostomus hucco Cope is certainly identical with the present species.
Moxostoma macrolepidotum Le Sueur.
Five from the Conestoga Creek in Lancaster County in Pennsylvania and two other examples without data likely were from the same locality.
Also an example in the collection from the Washington Market.
I neglected to admit this species in my list of Delaware fishes though Cope had recorded it in 1870 without definite locality.
Along the Susquehanna River in Maryland it is known to some of the fishermen though is said to be less common than any of the catostomoids.
In Delaware the fishermen know it along Broad Creek at Laurel and Bethel.
Moxostoma aureolum listed by Jordan from Carlisle in Pennsylvania must be this species.
Moxostoma lachrymale Copej.
Ptychostomus lachrymalis Cope Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. XI 1870 p. 474.
Xeuse River North Carolina.
Head 4f depth 3 D. iv 11 i A iii 6 i both V i 8 scales 43 in lateral line to caudal base and 3
more on latter 6 scales above lateral line 5 scales below lateral line 16 predorsal scales snout 2 in head eye 4 mouth width 5 interorbital 2 length 12 inches.
No.
6848 A. N. S. P. type
of Ptychostomus lachrymalis Cope.
Neuse River North Carolina.
E. D. Cope.
This example seems to differ from the preceding as pointed out by Cope and may therefore be allowed as distinct.
Moxostoma duquesnei Le Sueur.
One example from the Youghiogheny River Cope and another from a branch of the Big Mahoning Creek in Indiana County the latter recorded by me as Moxostoma aureolumP Following Cope's restriction this species is allowed distinct and identical with Le Sueur's fish it being open to doubt that the latter had Placopharynx.
Moxostoma duquesnei is thus seen to have more numerous scales in the lateral line than most of the species of the genus.
Other smallscaled nominal species as Moxostoma lesueurii Richardson and Moxostoma alleghaniensis Nichols are either identical or very closely allied.
'Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. No.
12 1878 p. 124.
22 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1912 p. 47.
23 Catostomiis lesueurii Richardson Franklin's Journal 1823 p. 772.
21 Bull.
Amer.
Mus.
N. Hist.
N. Y. XXX 1911 p. 275.
Pi.
11 fig.
1.
Marshall North Carolina.
Moxostoma aureolum Le Sueur.
In the Cope Collection are one from Saginaw Bay in Michigan one from the Southern States one from the Wabash River in Indiana one from the Neuse River in North Carolina and five from Tennessee.
As contended by Cope this species differs from Moxostoma erythiirum in the smaller head.
All show ' Head 4 to 4  depth 3 to 3f  D. usually iv 12 i occasionally iv 11 i A. iii 6 i all V. i 8 scales 39 to 45 in lateral line to caudal base and 3 more on latter usually 7 scales above lateral line seldom 6 or 8 usually 5 scales below lateral line seldom 6 predorsal scales usually 16 sometimes 15 or 17 rarely 20 snout 2 to 2 in head eye 4 to 5 mouth width 4 to 5 interorbital 2 to 2 length 10 to 18 inches.
Moxostoma crassilabre Cope.
Ptychostomus crassilabris Cope Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
8oc.
Phila. XI 1S70 p. 477.
Xeuse River near Raleigh North Carolina.
Head 4f  depth 3 D. iv 11 i A. iii 6 i both V. i 8 scales 43 in lateral line to caudal base and 3
more on latter 6 scales above lateral line 5 scales below lateral line 16 predorsal scales snout 2 in head eye 4 mouth width 5 interorbital 2 length 12 inches.
No.
6960 A. N. S. P. type of Ptychostomus crassilahris Cope.
Neuse River near Raleigh North Carolina.
E. D. Cope.
Moxostoma breviceps Cope.
Ptychostomus hrenceps Cope Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. XI 1870 p. 478.
Youghiogheny River Pennsylvania.
Head 5 depth 4 D. iv 12 i A. iii 6 i scales 42 in lateral line to caudal base and 3 more on latter 7 scales above lateral line 5 scales below lateral line 16 predorsal scales snout 2 in head eye 4 mouth width 4f  interorbital 2 length lOf inches.
No.
22104 A. N. S. P. type of Ptychostomus breviceps Cope.
Youghiogheny River Pennsylvania.
E. D. Cope.
The anal rays as suspected by Cope are abnormal and I have seen similar cases in other examples of the members of the present genus.
An example from the Neuse River North Carolina differs from the above in the following depth 4 D. iv 11 i snout 2 in head eye 3 mouth width 4 interorbital 2 length 11 inches.
SCARTOMYZON subgen.
nov.
Type Ptychostomus cervinus Cope.
Branched dorsal rays 9 to 11 usually 9 or 10.
Body long slender but slightly compressed.
Head rather small.
E'e rather large.
Mouth moderate.
Dark lateral streaks.
This subgenus differs from the others Moxostoma and Teretulus in the much fewer dorsal rays and coloration.
The single species lives in swift and rapid streams about rock pools in the southern Alleghanies.
IxdfjTTj'g jumper j.uduj to suck as the typical species is known as Jumping Mullet.
Mozostoma cervinum Cope.
Plychosiomus cervinus Cope Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 2 VI 1868 p. 235 PI.
3 fig.
4.
Catawba River North Carolina.
Roanoke River and James River Virginia.
Head 4 to 4i depth 4 to 5 D. usually iv 10 i frequently IV 9 I rarely iv 11 i A iii 6 i V. usually i 8 both sides very rarely i 7 both sides scales usually 38 to 44 in lateral line to caudal base though varies 37 to 47 and 3 more on caudal base usually 6 scales above lateral line frequently 5 occasionally 7 rarely 8 usually 5 scales below lateral line frequently 6 rarely 7 usually 15 predorsal scales often 16 seldom 14 17 18 or 19 snout 2i to 2 in head eye 3j to 4f  mouth width 3 to 6 interorbital 24 to 3 length 2 to 6 inches.
Nos.
6920 type to 6925 A. N. S. P. cotypes of Ptychostonius cervinus Cope.
Catawba River North Carolina.
Nos.
6904 to 6918 A. N. S. P. cotypes from headwaters of Roanoke River Virginia.
Nos.
6928 to 6946 A. N. S. P. cotypes from headwaters of the James River 'irginia.
All from Cope.
Moxostoma rupiscartes Jordan and Jenkins is identical with the present species.
All its alleged characters of difference are covered by the very full series of typical examples noted above.
Placopharynx carinatus Cope.
Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. XI 1870 p. 467 figs teeth.
Lafayette Wabash River Indiana.
No.
22108 A. N. S. P. type.
Lafayette Indiana.
E. D. Cope.
Five from Beaver River in Pennsylvania Cope in 1880 also two adults likely from the same locality.
One without data nine from Cherokee Iowa two from Eureka Springs Arkansas two from Carthage Missouri. 
Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1888 p. 353.
Carolina and Georgia.
NOTES ON THE FISHES OF THE CHINCOTEAGUE EEGION OF VIRGINIA.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
Early in May of 1912 I visited the town of Chincoteague where nearly a week was spent studying and collecting fishes for the Academy.
Though many of the species met with were abundant we secured some of interest and are thus able to offer in this contribution the first fairly representative account of the fishfauna of the region.
Chincoteague Island is situated at the lower end of the bay of that name forming in fact the lower inner face of the great narrow sandy barrierbeach of Assateague Island which is now however entirely continuous with Ocean City in Maryland and northward.
This barrierbeach at least north of Assateague Inlet contains no permanent fresh water its entire extent or for a distance of about thirty miles.
Thus Chincoteague Island its area extending a little over eight miles north and south with its greatest width a little over a mile contains the greatest amount of fresh water to be found in this offshore region.
This is in the form of narrow sloughs or ponds extending north and south and usually shallow.
They are locally known as glades and are often broken up in places into smaller bodies of water.
The larger glades frequently contain purely fresh water throughout the year though in places they sometimes dry out through drought or other causes.
In color the water is usually dark still and sluggish the first character likely due to the numerous bull pines which grow in many places.
Such waters naturally support an abundance of life as minute Crustacea etc. especially in the pools destitute of fishes.
Sometimes a freshwater glade will be separated from a brackish one having direct egress to the sea and at the time of high tides the two waters are intermingled.
In only one pool of fresh water though separated by but a few feet of dry land from a brackishwater glade did we secure freshwater moUusca and a phyllopod Ino holmani.
This pool was also quite interesting as differing from many others examined in the great diversity of its animal life such as water asels freshwater amphipods larval dragonflies' waterstriders and waterboatmen.
We did not find Palcemonetes vulgaris in this locality though it was common in other pools on the island as well as on Assateague.
On the latter and on Wallops Island we only found minute Crustacea and no freshwater mollusks.
The Chincoteague mollusca were identified by Mr. E. G. Vanatta as Lymncea columella Planorbis alabamensis and Musculium partumeium.
XiigvOnly frog met with was Rana pipiens and these mostly greenish.
Bufo americanus was abundant and we also saw a number of Chelydra serpentina Kinosternon pensylvanicum and Chrysemys pida.
Acknowledgment is due to Mr. T. D. Keim who assisted me in making the collections.
Mustelus canis Mitchill.
Abundant.
Chincoteague Assateague and AVallops.
Raja ocellata Mitchill.
Chincoteague and Wallops.
Raja eglanteria LacepMe.
Chincoteague Assateague and Wallops.
This is the most abundant skate.
Acipenser sturio Linnseua.
Chincoteague.
A large one brought in.
Pomolobus mediocris Mitchill.
Chincoteague and Wallops.
Pomolobus pseudoharengus Wilson.
Chincoteague Franklin City and Wallops.
Alosa sapidissima Wilson.
Chincoteague.
Several bushels taken in the pounds.
Brevoortia tyrannus Latrobe.
Franklin City Chincoteague and Assateague.
A number were infested with Lernecenicus radiatus Le Sueur a lernean parasite.
These were usually found hanging from the back and protruding through holes they had bored through their host's flesh.
Some were found protruding from the dorsal fins and one which had imbedded its head under its.
host's tongue hung down from the chin like a bifurcated barbel.
Among fifty or more examples of menhaden but few were found free of this parasite and usually several were on a single fish.
Anchovia mitchilli Valenciennes.
A dead example picked up on Assateague beach.
Fundulus majalis Walbaum.
Abundant at Chincoteague and Assateague.
The most abundant killifish in coves and saltwater bays.
Fundulus heteroclitus macrolepidotus Walbaum.
Chincoteague Assateague Wallops.
Fundulus luciae Baird.
Found only in the fresh regions of still waters such as are continuous with brackish waters on Chincoteague.
Lucania parva Baird.
A few found on Assateague and Chincoteague.
The former were in high color.
Cyprinodon variegatus Lacpede.
Abundant and in high color on Chincoteague and Assateague Islands.
Tylosurus marinas Walbaum.
One at Franklin City.
Menidia beryllina Cope.
A few found on Assateague.
Menidia menidia notata Mitchill.
Common at Assateague and Wallops.
Mugil curema Valenciennes.
Young found in brackish pools and ditches on Assateague.
Gasterosteus aculeatus Linnaus.
First found on Assateague in a large open glade filled with duckweed for several miles in extent.
These little fish were found swarming in myriads and were uniformly about an inch in length.
Some had their ventral membranes bright crimson and many were slightly variable otherwise in color though most were more or less brassy or golden.
All which we secured were of the mailed type.
Associated were a few silversides killifish rainwater fish and pursy minnows.
The sticklebacks often swim in immense schools and take refuge in the duck grass when disturbed.
They are much condemned by persons living on the island who raise ducks as they are said to cause the death of the young birds in some numbers at times.
One man told me he had lost thirtytwo young ducks one season due to the birds swallowing small sticklebacks.
Many other complaints were also heard.
It seems that in the summer or during drought the small fishes congregate in shallow puddles and being then easily captured they are eagerly devoured by the young ducks.
The fish finding itself a captive immediately assumes its only defense by locking tighth its dorsal and ventral spines lodging in its captor's throat or windpipe with fatal effect.
On Chincoteague they were far less abundant.
Syngnathus fuscus Storer.
A single example seined at Wallops where it was hauled ashore with bunches of sea lettuce and numbers of Crago septemspinosus Palcemonetes vulgaris Chloridella empusa Eupagurus longicarpus Ovalipes ocellatus and Callinedes sapidus.
Scomber scombrus Linnseus.
Common off Chincoteague Shoals.
Many bushels brought into the town.
Pomatomus saltatrix Linnaeus.
Like the last though only a few brought in.
Small ones at Chincoteague and Franklin City.
Poronotus triaoanthus Peck.
Very abundant.
Chincoteague.
Roocus lineatus Bloch.
Several small ones at Chincoteague.
Morone americana Gmelin.
A few large ones at Franklin City.
Orthopristis chrysopterus Linnus.
A few at Chincoteague.
Stenotomus cbrysops Linnaeus.
Not many taken at Chincoteague.
Lagodon rhomboides Linnaeus.
One at Chincoteague.
Cynoscion regalis Schneider.
Franklin City Chincoteague Wallops.
Common.
Cynoscion nebulosus Cuvier.
Chincoteague and Wallops.
A few.
Bairdiella chrysura Laclpede.
Common.
Chincoteague Frankhn City and Wallops.
Scisenops ocellatus Linnaeus.
Several large ones at Chincoteague.
Micropogon undulatus Linnaeus.
Very common.
Chincoteague Franklin City and Wallops.
Menticirrhus saxatilis Schneider.
Common.
Chincoteague Franklin City Wallops.
Pogonias cromis Linnaeus.
One small example at Chincoteague.
Tautoga onitis Linnaeus.
One at Chincoteague.
Spheroides maculatus Schneider.
Very common at Chincoteague Assateague Wallops and Franklin City.
Prionotus carolinus Linnseus.
Chincoteague and Wallops.
Prionotus evolans strigatus Cuvier.
Common.
Chincoteague.
Lophopsetta maculata Mitchill.
Chincoteague Wallops Franklin City.
Etropus microstomus Gill.
One adult of this interesting little fish which has not certainly been secured outside of New Jersey before was seined at Wallops beach.
Mr. T. M. Milliner who was with us when this specimen was secured tells me that it is occasionally taken in Watchapreague Inlet.
Paralichthys dentatus Linnaus.
Chincoteague Franklin City and Wallops.
Pseudopleurouectes americanus Walbaum.
Chincoteague and Wallops.
Achirus fasciatus LacSpede.
Common at Chincoteague.
Astroscopus guttatus Abbott.
A large example at Chincoteague.
Urophycis regius Walbaum.
Several small ones seined at Wallops.
SOME TYPESPECIMENS OF THE AMERICAN CYPRINOID FISHES OF THE GENUS RUTILUS.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
While studying the cyprinoid fishes in the Acadeniof Natural Sciences of Philadelphia recently a number of detailed notes were made on the variation found in the genus Rutilus.
The material embraces a number of typical specimens of the American species most of which have not been critically examined since they were described.
Owing to the imperfect nature of the incomplete and unsatisfactory original descriptions it is hoped that the present contribution will be of value.
Few if any of the species have been figured and certainly not from these specimens.
In searching for sufficient characters to separate the American from the European species generically I have been unsuccessful.
Most of the former show no scaly axillary ventral flaps though a few exceptions were noted.
All the Old World species have this character very evident as represented in the collection the pointed scale appearing quite conspicuous.
Therefore while Myloleucus or Leucos may eventually be found subgenerically distinct the elevation of Siphateles to generic rank by CockerelU would seem hardly warranted solely on scale characters.
Rutilus olivaceus Cope.
Figs.
13.
Leucus olivaceus Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1883 p. 145.
Pyramid Lake Nevada.
Leucus dimidiatus Cope I.e.
Pyramid Lake.
Siphateles vitlatus Cope I.e. p. 146.
Pyramid Lake.
Head 3 to 4 depth 3 to 5 D. iii 7 i rarely iii 8 i A iii 7 i rarely iii 6 i or iii 8 i or iii 9 i scales 50 to 62 in 1.
1. to caudal base3 or 4 usually 3 on latter 13 to 15 scales above 1.
1. usually 14 frequently 13 seldom 15 8 to 10 scales below 1.
1. usually 9 frequently 8 or 10 29 to 42 predorsal scales snout 3 to 4i in head eye 3 to 5 maxillary 3 to 4 interorbital 2f to 3i teeth 5  5 frequently 5  4 length 2 to lOf inches.
Nos.
19354 type to 19366 A. N. S. P. cotypes of Leucus olivaceus Cope.
1 Proc.
Biol.
Soc.
Wash. XXII 1909 p. 217.
1913.
67 Fig.
1.
 Rutilus olivaceus Cope.
Type of Leucns olivaceus Cope.
Nos.
19392 type to 19399 A. N. S. P. cotypes of Leucus dimidiatus Cope.
Nos.
19882 type and Nos.
18654 to 18691 A. N. S. P. cotypes of Siphateles vittatus Cope.
The young differ from the adults in the projecting mandible large eye more or less incomplete 1.
1. and nearly straight convex upper head profile.
The predorsal scales appear to become more numerous with age.
Rutilus oregonensis Snyderis said to differ in'the teeth which Fig2.
 Rutilus olivaceus Cope.
Type of Leucus dimidiatus Cope.
2 Bull Bur.
Fisher. XXVII 1908 p. 87.
Feb.
Fig.
3.
 Rutilus olivaceus Cope.
Type of Siphaleles .
vitlatus Cope.
are given as 4  5.
I find in the above series 38 examples have the teeth 5  5 and 19 examples have 5  4.
Rutilus thalassinus Cope.
Fig.
4.
Myloleucus thalassinus Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1883 p. 144.
Goose Lake Oregon.
Head 3 to 3 depth 31 to 4 D. iii 8 i rarely iii 7 i A. iii 7 I occasionally iii 8 i rarely iii 6 i scales 42 to 50 in 1.
1. to caudal base usually between 46 and 492 rarely 3 on latter 10 scales above 1.
1. rarely 9 or 11 7 scales below 1.
1. frequently 6 rarely 5 20 to 25 predorsal scales snout 3 to 4 in head eye 3 to 7 maxillary 3i to 3 interorbital 2f to 3f teeth 5  4 length 3j Fig.
4.
 Rutilus thalassinus Cope.
Type of Myloleucus thalassinus Cope.
No.
19848 A. N. S. P. type of Mijloleucus thalassimis Cope.
It agrees largely with Rutilus bicolor Gilbert. The head is given as 3 to 3f which is a little smaller than in the types of Algansea antica Cope.
Gilbert has identified Myloleucus parovanus Cope with this species though is not followed by Snyder. Also a series of examples from Klamath Lake and Goose Lake Oregon Cope and Pyramid Lake Nevada
Cope.
The Klamath Lake specimens were all identified by Cope as M. parovanus.
Likely the Pyramid Lake example is wrongly labelled.
Rutilus anticus Cope.
Fig.
5.
Algansea antica Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1864 p. 282.
'Texas.
Head 2 to 3 depth 3 to 3f  D. in 7 i A. iii 7 i scales 45 to 50 in 1.
1. to caudal base 2 or 3 more on latter 10 to 12 scales above 1.
1. 7 or 8 scales below 1.
1. 24 to 26 predorsal scales snout 3y to Fig.
5.
 Rutilus anticus Cope.
Type of Algansea atiticaCope.
4 in head eye 4 to 5j maxillary 3 to 4 interorbital 3j to 3 teeth 55 or 54 length 3
to 5 inches.
Nos.
4911 type to 4913 A. N. S. P. cotypes of Algansea antica Cope.
The type locality given as Texas is doubtless erroneous no member of the genus ever having been found there.
It is likely these specimens really came from some lake or stream in California Nevada or Oregon.
Provisionally they may be distinguishable from Myloleucus bicolor by the larger head ranging as 2 to 3.
3 Bull.
U. S. F.
Com. XVII 1897 p. 8 fig.
 Bull.
Bur.
Fisher. XXVII 1907 p. 86.
Eutilus symmetricus Girard.
Fig.
6.
Pogonichthys symmetricus Baird and Girard Girard Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1854 p. 136.
Fort Miller San Joaquin Valley California.
Head 3 to 4 depth 3f 
to 4 D. usually in 7 i rarely in 8 i A.
Ill 7 i scales 52 to 56 in 1.
1. to caudal base2 to 4 more on latter 12 scales above 1.
1. rarely 13 7 or 8 scales below 1.
1. usually 32 predorsal scales rarely 28 or 31 snout 3 to 3j in head eye 3f to 4f  maxillary 3 to 3f interorbital 2f to 3 teeth 5  5 or 5  4 length 3 to 5 inches.
Nos.
5330 to 5333 A. N. S. P. cotypes of Pogonichthys symmetricus Girard.
Dr. A. L. Heermann.
From the Smithsonian Institution No.
191.
Rutilus symmetricus Girard.
Cotype of Pogonichthys symmetricus Girard.
An example from northern California
Cope is also identical.
This species approaches the physiognomy of Leuciscus and differs at once from all of our American Rutilus in the protruding snout and included mandible.
Although Rutter retains Algansea formosa Girard as a synonym it differs in the projecting mandible.
Rutilus formosus Girard.
Fig.
7.
Algansea formosa Girard Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1850 p. 183.
Mercede and Mohave Rivers.
Head 3 to 3 depth 3 to 4 D. usually in 7 i frequently III 8 i A.
Ill 7 I rarely in 6 i scales in 1.
1. to caudal base usually 50 frequently 52 sometimes 51 or 47 occasionally 49 or 53 seldom 48 rarely 46usually 3 occasionally 4 rarely 2 usually 12 scales 5 Bull.
Bur.
Fisher. XXVII 1907 1908 p. 137.
1913.1 71 above I.
1. frequently 11 seldom 13 rarely 14 usually 7 scales below 1.
1. frequently 8 often 9 usually 25 predorsal scales frequently 24 often 26 seldom 23 or 27 rarely 29 or 30 snout 3i to  in head eye 3 to 6 maxillary 3 to 4 interorbital 2f to Sf teeth usually 5  4 rarely 55 or 4  4 length If to 8 inches.
No.
4914 A. N. S. P. cotype of Algansea formosa Girard.
Mercede River California.
Dr. A. L. Heermann.
Smithsonian Institution No.
196.
Fig.
7.
 Rutilus fonnosus Girard.
Cotype of Algansea formosa Girard.
Also 38 other examples from Chewaucan Cope Warner's Third Lake Cope Silver Lake Cope Oregon Mohave River Hammond Pose Creek Heermami California.
Seven more examples though with uncertain data were likely from the Mohave River in California.
They are not included in the above computations.
Myloleucus pulverulentus Cope from Warm Springs Utah as represented by a cotype in the collection is not a Rutilus and therefore cannot be identified with Pogonichthys symmetricus Girard as the teeth are biserial.
It is likel identical with Leuciscus lineatus Girard.
NOTES ON SOME WEST AMERICAN CEPHALOPODS BY S. STILLMAN BERRY.
As a considerable time has elapsed since the completion of the manuscript for my recent Review of the Cephalopods of Western North America it is not surprising that several new facts have been brought to notice while some of those already dwelt upon appear to require reconsideration in the light of recent work by other investigators.
Hence the following notes.
Polypus apollyon Berry 1912.
It seems fairly doubtful whether all the specimens included with the type of this species in the table of locality data in my report Berry 1912a p. 283 are in reality conspecific with one another or belong to recognizable groups which only a greater abundance of wellpreserved adult material than is at present available will enable us to separate.
In the meanwhile I am inclined to recognize P. apollyon as distinct from the true P. hongkojigensis Hoyle a view which if correct eliminates the latter species from consideration in our fauna.
Fig.
1.
 Polypus apollyon outline drawing of funnel laid open along the medioventral line to expose the funnel organ.
X 2.
S. S. B.
81.
I take this opportunity to give a figure of the funnel organ of one of the specimens from the Coronado Islands in the collection of the University of Cahfornia S. S. B.
81.
Polypus pricei new species.
Animal small and rather delicate.
Body elongate pyriform obtusely pointed behind a decided nuchal constriction separates it from the head surface everywhere smooth without visible cirri or papillae.
Head small short flattened slightly narrower than the body.
Eyes very large rounded and protruding.
Funnel broad thin walled truncate at the extremity the tip reaching but little past the base of the arms. Fig.
2.
 Polypus pricei inner aspect of right ventral arm.
X 2.
S. S. B.
189.
Arms nearly equal scarcely twice as long as the body thick at the base but delicate and tapering rather rapidly to a tenuous extremity connected at base by a thin hyaline umbrella extending about equally between them all for perhaps a twelfth of their length along their outer margins it is continued as a very fragile membrane becoming obsolete considerably before it reaches the tips.
Suckers small little crowded much elevated the first five or six pairs but little displaced so that they still have the appearance of a single row the remainder clearly biserial fig.
2.
Hectocotylus not observed.
Color of specimens preserved in alcohol a very pale brownishbuff everywhere except the region of the eyeball the body and head irregularly dotted with small brown chromatophores  eyeball bluishblack with a few very large chromatophores superimposed two alternating longitudinal rows of large light colored chromatophores decorate the outer surface of each arm.
1 Owing to the condition of the specimens I am unable to give either a drawing or an accurate description of the funnel organ.
The indications are however that it is closely similar in outline to that of P. californicus cf.
Berry 1912o p. 286 fig.
.3 although relatively somewhat smaller and more anterior in position.
Measurements  Type mm.
mm.
Total length 50 58 Tip of body to base of dorsal arms 22 23 Length of mantle dorsal 18 18 Length of mantle ventral 17 18 Width of mantle 10 10 Width of neck 7 6 Width of head across eyes 9 8 Length of head 4 5 Length of right dorsal arm 29 33 Length of left dorsal arm 29 29 Length of right second arm 30 35 Length of left second arm .
31 35 Length of right third arm 31 33 Length of left third arm 31 36 Length of right ventral arm 29 32 Length of left ventral arm  29 26 Length of funnel 8 7 Length of umbrella between dorsal arms 3.5 4 Length of umbrella between ventral arms 4 4 Note.
 The arms and umbrella were measured from the edge of the buccal membrane along the inner face.
Type. In the Stanford University Collections S. S. B.
189.
Type Locality.
 Off Point Pinos Monterey Bay California four specimens from the stomach of a salmon Onchorhynchus tschawytscha  C. H. Gilbert June 23 1911.
Distrihution.
 Although the type and cotypes are the only specimens now at hand I feel little hesitation in referring to the present species a juvenile Polypus in the University of California Collection described by me in a previous paper Berry 1911 p. 303 thus extending its known range as far to the southward as Santa Catalina Island.
Remarks.
 P. pricei is most conspicuously characterized by the delicate consistency of its tissues large eyes constricted neck very short subequal arms short hyaline umbrella elevated suckers pale coloration and elongate pointed body in outline somewhat recalling that of an Argonauta.
Owing to the inadequacy of the material I am unable to give a proper estimation of its relationships with species from other geographic regions but as compared with all other West American and North Pacific forms it seems clearly distinct.
In the key Berry 1912a p. 271 the present species would fall nearest to P. apollyon hongkongensis  but is certainly not the young either of that species or of P. californicus.
Despite their smallness the four specimens are very nearly of a size and it may be that they are approximately mature.
The species is named for Dr. George Clinton Price of Stanford University.
Calliteuthis Meleagroteuthis heteropsis new species.
Meleagroteuthis hoylei Berry 1912a p. 305 text figs.
1316 pi.
50 figs.
13 pi.
51 pi.
52 figs.
57 not of Pfeffer 1900 p. 170 1912 p. 291 pi.
22 figs.
18.
Having recently been able to consult a copy of Pfeffer's great monograph of the Egopsida containing a much more detailed description of his Meleagroteuthis hoylei than had previously been given together with an excellent series of figures of the same I am forced to the opinion that my reference of the Albatross Calif ornian specimens to this species was an error and that they represent a nearly allied but unnamed form.
As I have already given a careful and full description of these specimens its repetition is unnecessary here but it should be added that as compared with M. hoylei C. heteropsis differs especially in the following characteristics 1 There is a somewhat greater number of suckers and pads in the fixing apparatus of the tentacles and these exhibit the following differences in arrangement  in hoylei the dorsal series comprises five pads and the same number of suckers in regular alternation while the ventral and more proximal row beginning at the carpus comprises according to Pfeffer's figure 1 sucker 2 pads 2 suckers 1 pad 2 suckers 1 pad  a very peculiar order indeed in heteropsis the dorsal series contains 7 pads alternating with an equal number of suckers while the ventral row commencing at its distal end contains a small sucker then a larger one then two smaller pads then two larger suckers two pads two suckers two pads and two suckers  all nearly in the same line but occurring in pairs in regular alternation. '
2 There is no evidence whatever of the presence of cartilaginous tubercles either along the mediodorsal line along the arms or anywhere else.
3 The arms are relatively stouter.
4 The number of teeth on the horny rings of the sessile arm suckers is much smaller 78 instead of 20 and these are apparent only upon the upper half of the ring.
In some respects the present species approaches the recently described C. asteroessa Chun but is probably sufficiently distinct.
Chun 1910 p. 170 has united Meleagroteuthis to Calliteuthis Verrill 1880 as a subgenus a proceeding with which the writer is in accord.
Gonatus magister new species.
Gonalus fabricii 
Berry 1912a p. 310 pi.
52 fig.s.
12 pi.
53 pi.
54 figs.
14 pi.
55 figs 1 37 not of Steenstrup et al..
In the work cited I referred a number of small decapods from the California coast to the widespread Gonatus fabricii and somewhat doubtfully included with them two large squids from the Puget Sound Region.
Since that time through the kindness of Miss A. L. Massy I have received a specimen of the true G. fabricii from the Irish coast and a comparison with this now leads me to consider the Puget Sound specimens at least to represent a new species'.
Owing to the detailed description of these specimens I have already given it is necessary here merely to give a brief resume of the features which appear peculiar to them.
As compared with the Irish specimen they are much larger heavier and more massive in every way.
The fins are over onehalf the length of the body are more obtusely angled and are scarcely at all produced at the extremity while at the same time they appear to be thicker more firmly attached to the body more widely separated and with less developed anterior lobes.
The most conspicuous and important difference however is to be found in the structure of the tentacular arms for the clubs are not only differently shaped but their inner faces are completely clothed by a multitude of fine suckers quite unaccompanied by hooks or even any traces of the same.
I have carefully reexamined the specimens on several different occasions and nowhere can find the slightest scars to indicate that such structures might once have been present.
In the region corresponding to their position in G. fabricii there is not even a bare space einer glatten langlichen CentralFlache  of Middendorff nor do the suckers extend so far down the stalk as in that species.
The fixing apparatus is very simple and inconspicuous comprising some 2325 small marginal pads alternating with a similar number of suckers on the club proper besides a number more extending down the stalk.
These suckers are all minute none of them conspicuously larger or otherwise differentiated from the others and there are no accessory ridges connected withthem as in G. fabricii.
The contrast with either the excellent figures of Steenstrup 1881 pi.
1 or the brief though clear description given by Middendorff 1849 p. 515 for his Onychoteuthis kamtschatica or the specimen sent me by Miss Massy is throughout very marked.
It should be noted that the gross dimensions of Middendorff's specimen correspond very fairly to those of the individuals before me so that the differences do not seem explicable on the ground of age.
Type.
 Cat.
2084 of the Invertebrate Series Stanford University Collections S. S. B.
88.
Type Locality.
 Puget Sound Washington.
Whether the young specimens taken by the Albatross are true G. fahricii or a young stage of the present species is still a matter of doubt.
Onychoteuthis banksii Leach 1817 F6russac 1826.
This species has recently been obtained off Nevi3ort California Berry 1912 p. 83 figs.
4446.
I had previously overlooked the fact that Middendorff 1849 p. 516 pi.
12 fig.
A describes a much smaller specimen from Bering Sea as 0.
Bergii Lichtenstein.
He also mentions an Octopus Polypus from the same region  'vielleicht Oct. gramdatus Lam'k.
Literature Cited.
Berry S. S. 1911.
Notes on some Cephalopods in the Collection of the University of California.
University of California Publications in Zoology vol.
8 pp.
301.310 text figures 14 pis.
2021 Septenaber 1911.
1912.
On a Cephalopod new to California with a note on another species.
First Annual Report of the Laguna Marine Laboratory pp.
8387 text figures 4448 May 1912.
1912a.
A Review of the Cephalopods of Western North America.
Bulletin of the Bureau of Fisheries vol.
30 pp.
267336 text figures 118 pis.
3256 July 1912.
Chun C. 1910.
Die Cephalopoden.
1.
Teil CEgopsida.
Wiss.
Ergehn.
deutsch.
TiefseeExped.
Valdivia vol.
18 402 pp. 2 pis.
and 32 figures in text atlas of 61 pis.
VON Middendorff A. T. 1849.
Beitrage zu einer Malacozoologia Rossica.
II.
Aufzahlung und Beschreibung der zur Meeresfauna Russlands gehorigen Einschaler.
Memoires sciences naturelles de I'Academie Imperiale des Sciences 6 vol.
6 pp.
329.516 pis.
112 St. Petersburg 1849.
Pfeffer G. 1900.
Synopsis der oegopsiden Cephalopoden.
Mitteilungen aus dem N aturhistorischen Museum Hamburg No.
17 pp.
147198.
1912.
Die Cephalopoden der Planktonexpedition.
Zugleich eineiiionographische Uebersicht der CEgopsiden Cephalopoden.
Ergebn.
Planktonexpedition der HumboldtStiftung Bd.
2 pp.
ixxi 1815 atlas of 48 pis.
Steenstrup J. J. S. 1881.
Professor A. E. Verrils to nye Cephalopodslaegter Sthenoteuthis og Lestoteuthis.
Oversigt over d. k. d. Vidensk.
Selsk.
Forhandl.
1881 pp.
127 pi.
1.
OXYRHOPUS TRIGEMINUS Dumeril and Bibron THE TYPE OF ERYTHROXYRHOPUS gen. nov. BY J. C. THOMPSON SURGEON U. S. N. The classification contained in the Catalogue of the Snakes in the British Museum will unquestionably remain our standard for years to come.
Nevertheless when the suborder Serpentes has been critically examined from the standpoint of comparative anatomy along the lines suggested by Cope there must be changes.
When dissecting serpents especially those that are now placed in the larger genera one sees species grouped that really should be separated.
In recording unusual structural conditions in suggesting new generic names or in the regrouping of species the following routine will be observed The specimens examined will be recorded under the exact specific name employed in the Catalogue of the Snakes m the British Museum and where a new generic name is established it will be proposed provisionally not for immediate use but awaiting a thorough examination of the subfamily to which it belongs.
In studying Oxyrhojus trigeminus Dumeril and Bibron it was found to possess an hemipenis without calyces and with an apical disk.
This is a condition widely different from Oxyrhopus cloelia Daudin and Oxyrhopus petolarius Linnaeus in which the organ has calyces and is without a disk.
Two opisthoglyph serpents were previously known with a similar organ.
These Erythrolarnprus cesculapii Linnaeus and Philodryas elegans Tschudi have been grouped by Cope in the subfamily of Enjthrolamprince  Oxyrhopus trigeminus Dumeril and Bibron is believed to be worthy of generic recognition.
On the other hand to alter a name wellestablished in literature from the time of Dumeril and Bibron should not be undertaken without grave necessity.
In this case the necessity will only arise when the great majority of the Dipsadomorphince have been examined anatomically and one is in a position to propose a rearrangement of the species based upon a far wider knowledge of their organs than is at present possessed.
11900 Cope Croo. Liz.
and Sn.
of No.
Am. p. 1091.
Oxyrhopus trigeminus Dumeril and Bibron.
1896 Boulenger Cat.
Sn.
Brit.
Mus. Ill p. 104.
Field No.
4425.
Ceara Mirim Rio Grande do Norte Brazil.
Female total length 340 mm. tail 55.
Scales in 19 rows anteriorly and 17 rows posteriorly the IV row suppressed at the level of the 126th gastrostege on the right and the 127th on the left smooth with two apical pits the scales in the outer row are usually without pits when present there is one situated in the upper half of the scale and near the apex.
Gastrosteges 191 anal entire urosteges 60 pairs.
One prseand two postoculars temporals 23 eight upper labials the fourth and fifth entering the eye.
The pupil is very narrow and vertical.
Anatomy.
 The maxilla bears ten teeth and two enlarged fangs.
Color.
 There are thirteen sets of bands on the body and three on the tail the tip is black.
Field No.
4449.
Papery Rio Grande do Norte Brazil.
Female body 471 mm. tail docked.
Scales in 19 rows anteriorly and 17 rows posteriorly the IV row is suppressed at the level of the 120th gastrostege on the right and on the 122d on left side.
Gastrosteges 183 anal entire.
One praeand two postoculars temporals 23 eight upper labials the fourth and the fifth entering the eye.
Field No.
4402.
Papery Rio Grande do Norte Brazil.
Male body length 437 mm. tail docked.
Scales in 19 rows anteriorly and in 17 rows posteriorly the IV row is suppressed at the level of the 118th gastrostege on the right and at the 119th on the left side.
Gastrosteges 182 anal entire.
One prseand two postoculars temporals 23 eight upper labials the fourth and fifth entering the eye.
Anatomy.
 The total length of the hemipenis is 22 mm. it is divided the length of each quadripenis being 9 mm. the tip reaches to the 12th urostege.
The sulcus is divided 6 mm.
from the base each quadripenis terminates in a cordiform apical disk from the base to the bifurcation of the sulcus the organ is plicate from this point to the chsk it is spinous.
A rudiment of a lung.
The heart apex is at the level of the 41st gastrostege.
Anteriorly the liver is divided into two lobes the one on the right side is 8 mm. that on the left 24 mm.
long the tip of the longer lobe is at the level of the 51st gastrostege.
ERYTHEOXYRHOPUS new genus.
Hypapophyses absent in the posterior dorsal vertebrse.
Scales smooth with two apical pits in species with 19 rows anteriorly reduced to 17 rows posteriorly the IV row is the one that becomes suppressed.
Head distinct.
Pupil vertical.
Maxillary teeth about 11 subequal a short space between them and the two fangs which are behind the eye anterior mandibular teeth enlarged.
A rudimentary lung.
Hemipenis and sulcus divided spinous with an apical disk at the termination of each ramus of the organ.
Type species of this genus is now known as Oxyrhopus trigeminus Dumeril and Bibron  it occurs in the Guianas and Brazil.
The position of this genus in Cope's classification would be in the Erythrolamprinoe.
This subfamily of the Dipsadidce may be defined as glyphodonta with the hypapophyses of vertebrse anterior only hemipenis and sulcus divided spinous not calyculate an apical disk.
There are three genera all neotropical  Hemipenis and sulcus bifurcate.
Disk at the extremity of the sulcus.
Pupil round Erythrolamprus Boie.
Pupil vertical Erythroxyrhopus Thompson.
Disk at one side of the sulcus.
Hemipenis with spines in two bands only Lygophis Tschudi.
The specimens from which the foregoing observations were made are in the Department of Zoology at Leland Stanford Junior University.
U. S. F. S. Albatross Dec. 25 1912.
March 18.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M.D. LL.D. in the Chair.
Three hundred and two persons present.
The Chair announced the deaths of the folloving members Lewis W. Steinbach February 10 Theodore W. Morris February 15 Roland G. Curtin M.D. March 15 1913.
The death of Robert Collett a correspondent February 1913 was also announced.
Mr. Edward H. Thompson made an illustrated communication on the ancient ruins of Yucatan and its modern inhabitants.
No abstract.
The Publication Committee reported that papers under the following titles had been presented for publication ''Some Australian bees by T. D. A. Cockerell February 1.
Notes on Catostomoid fishes by Henry W. Fowler February 1.
Notes on the fishes of the Chincoteague River by Henry W. Fowler February 1.
Some type specimens of American Cyprinoid fishes of the genus Rutilus by Henry W. Fowler February 1.
Notes on some West American Cephalopods by S. Stillman Berry February 5.
Descriptions of new species of marine shells by E. G. Vanatta January 23February 19.
Description and records of South American Orthoptera ith the description of a ncAv subspecies from Clarion Island by J.
A. G. Rehn March 10.
A study of metazoan parasites found in the Philadelphia Zoological Garden by Frederick D. Wiedman March 12.
North border relations of the Triassic in Pennsylvania by Edgar T. Wherry March 12.
Colonel W. C. Gorgas of Panama was elected a correspondent.
The following were ordered to be printed DESCKIPTIONS AND RECORDS OF SOUTH AMERICAN ORTHOPTERA WITH THE DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SUBSPECIES FROM CLARION ISLAND.
BY JAMES A. G. REHN.
In the following pages are contained the descriptions of one new genus nine new species and one new subspecies from locahties extending from Panama and Surinam south to southern Brazil and from Clarion Island in the Pacific Ocean off Lower California.
Much information concerning the variation of certain species and data on the range of others accumulated from a number of sources is here presented for the first time.
By far the greater part of the material here treated is contained in the Hebard Collection all of the new species being from that series while a number of interesting forms are from the collection of the United States National Museum.
My thanks are due to Mr. Hebard and the authorities of the National Museum for the privilege of studying the material.
ACRYDIIX.E Tdliginop Auct..
EOMORPHOPUS Hancock.
1906.
Eotnorphopus Hancock Tetriginse Genera Insectorum pp.
31 and 37.
Tj'pe as specified Amorphopus antemiatiis Bolivar.
Eomorphopus granulatus Hancock.
1906.
Eomophopus granulatus Hancock Tetriginse Genera Insectorum p. 38 pi.
4 fig.s.
3o3.5a.
Dutch Guiana.l Surinam.
Hebard Coll.
One 9 .
EUMASTACIN..
PARAMASTAX Burr.
Paramastax nigra Scudder.
187.5.
Mastax nigra Scudder Proc.
Boston Soc.
Xat.
Hist. XVII p. 266.
Eastern slope of the Peruvian Andes.
Yungas de la Paz Bolivia 1000 meters elevation.
Hebard CoU.
One cf .
This specimen is considerably smaller than the measurements given by Scudder and appreciably smaller than those given by Burr but otherwise it is typical of 7iigra.
The difference in size may be 1 Anal.
Soc.
Espan.
Hist.
Nat. XXVIII p. 270. due to the fact that the specimen in hand is from the most southern section of the known range of the species.
The fact that the ventral portion of the lateral lobes of the pronotum is orangered seems to have been overlooked by previous writers.
Measurements.
Length of body 16 .
5 mm.
Length of pronotum 2.3  Length of tegmen 13 .5  Length of caudal femur 13  ACRIDIN.E Truxalince Auct..
ORPHULA Stkl.
Orphula pagana minor GiglioTos.
Yungas de la Paz Bolivia 1000 meters elevation.
Hebard Collection.
One cf.
This is the most westerly locality known for the form.
ORPHULINA GiglioTos.
Orphulina veteratoria Rehn.
1906.
Orphulina veteratoria Rehn Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1906 p. 21 figs.
5 and 6.
Sao Paulo Brazil.
Espirito Santo Brazil.
Hebard Collection.
One cf .
This specimen differs from the type in a few details as the exact curve of the lateral pronotal carinse and the degree of constriction of the frontal costa dorsad and ventrad of the ocellus but the differences appear to be purely individual.
FENESTRA GiglioTos.
Fenestra ensicorne n. sp.
Type cf Espirito Santo Brazil Hebard Collection.
AUied to F. bohlsii GiglioTos but differing in the more ascending head the more angulate character of the fastigium when viewed from the lateral aspect the more compressed and more deeply sulcate frontal costa and the much less depressed antennae except at the apex.
Size medium form distinctly compressed.
Head with the occiput distinctly ascending interspace between the eyes equal to the fastigium in width the latter trigonal acuteangulate the margins distinctly elevated and the occiput vertex and fastigium provided with a continuous median carina which is stronger on the fastigium than elsewhere lateral foveolse strongly linear expanding  The abdomen is unnaturally compressed and in conseqilence the length is greater than should be the case.
84 March Fig.
1.
 Fenestra ensicorne n. sp.
Lateral view of type.
X 3.
somewhat caudad face considerably retreating the angle of the face and fastigium truncate frontal costa slightly expanded between the antennae regularly expanding from slightly dorsad of the ocellus to the clypeal suture deeply punctate between the antennae sulcate ventrad the portion dorsad of the ocellus quite deeply so lateral carinae of the face distinct considerably diverging ventrad eyes subovate slightly angulate dorsad and ventrad moderately prominent when viewed from the dorsum antennae half again as long as the head and pronotum together proximal third Avdth the joints distinctly depressed and somewhat ensiform in appearance distal segment depressed hastate remaining joints simple cylindrical.
Pronotum somewhat longer than the dorsal length of the head  cUsk very sHghtly tectate cephalic margin subtruncate caudal margin obtuseangulate with the 'sides of the angle roundly emarginate median carina distinct moderately elevated divided very slightly caudad of the middle lateral angles of the pronotum not carinate except for limited areas in the vicinity of the cephalic and caudal margins the form of the lateral angles as indicated by imperfect carinae is similar to that of F. hohlsii being distinctly constricted cephalad of the middle lateral lobes of the Fig.
2.
 Fenestra ensicorne n. sp.
Dorsal view of head and pronotum.
X3.
pronotum subquadrate the veiitrad margin strongl' sinuate cephalad.
Tegmina very slightly exceeding the tips of the caudal femora inflated the greatest breadth contained about three and a half times in the length costal margin with a moderate proximal expansion apex subobliquely rotundatotruncate  mediastine vein strongl developed no intercalarj vein present.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes very slightly transverse the angles of the lobes obtuse metasternal lobes separated by a narrow longitudinal space.
Abdomen moderately compressed supraanal plate rounded trigonal subgenital plate compressed particularly dorsad moderately acute cerci simple terete.
Caudal femora slightly less than twice the length of the head and pronotum together moderately robust paginse with wellmarked scalariform pattern caudal tibise bearing ten spines on the external margin eleven on the internal margin.
General color of the dorsum olive the tegmina with a tendency toward burnt umber mesad.
Face and clypeus applegreen labrum whitish eyes raw umber antennae burnt umber clovebrowi on the terminal segment.
Gena
and lateral lobes of the pronotum drab paler ventrad pleura pale greenish and umber ventral surface of the thorax and proximal portion of abdomen shining black remainder of abdomen vandyke brol wdth obscure longitudinal bars of blackishbrown disposed as a pair of laterals and another of ventrals the two parallel ventral bars separated by a very narrow median paler line.
Wings with the base Chinese orange.
Limbs very pale olivegreen the caudal femora with some weak buffyellow dorsad and proximad the genicular region and both ventral faces blueblack the internal face blueblackish with several very narrow pale olivegreen bars caudal tibise very dark olivegreen with a pale olivegreen pregenicular annulus spines blacktipped.
Measurements.
Length of body 20 mm.
Length of pronotum 4  Greatest caudal width of disk of pronotum 2.7  Length of tegmen 15.8  Length of caudal femur 12.5  The type is unique.
CEDIPODIN.
LACTISTA Stl.
Xactista pulchripennis Saussure.
1884.
Lactista pulchripennis Saussure Prodromus CEdipodiorum p. 143.
Colombia Porto Cabello Venezuela.
Surinam.
U. S. N. M. One cf .
This species has previously been recorded only from Cache Costa 86 March Rica Colombia without exact locahty Bonda Colombia and Puerto Cabello Venezuela.
9.
Hebard Coll.
PYRGOMORPHIN.
OMURA Walker.
Omura congrua Walker.
Surinam.
MaySeptember.
Hebard Coll.
One Obidos Amazon River State of Para Brazil.
One d.
SPATHALIUM Bolivar.
Spathalium paranense n. sp.
Type 9  Parana Brazil.
Hebard Collection.
Allied to S. sommeri Burmeister and S. hispidum Bruner but differing from both in the undivided and narrower mediocaudal tubercle of the pronotum from the former also in the shorter tegmina and wings and from   the latter in the less expanded '' pronotum and the more depressed condition of the tubercles both marginal and discal of the pronotum.
Size rather large form similar to that of the other strongly tuberculate species of the genus surface rugose and carinate.
Head well set into the pronotum  interocular area slightly more than one and a half times as wide as the greatest diameter of the eye and provided with three transverse carinse all interrupted several times and the median hardly apparent mesad frontal costa very narrow subangulately produced between the antennal bases sulcate throughout and expanded ventrad of the ocellus into an hourglassshaped structure  when viewed from the lateral aspect the face has several undulations ventrad of the interantennal rather prominent antennae depressed Fig.
3.
 Spathalium paranense n.sp sal view of type.
X 2.
protuberance eyes ovate Dorgense with several low tuberculate swellings.
Pronotum of the peculiar type found in the allied species the median carina of the prozona cristate inflated caudad caudal margin of the metazona with five principal and six minor projections prozonal crest moderately high erososerrate projecting over the metazona and inflated caudad cephalic margin very obtuseangulate mesad median tubercle of the caudal margin rather narrow and undirC vided median carina of the w VV metazona regular about equal V vT J Vxv to the rather depressed discal  Pi tubercles in height lateral il.yj angles of the metazona pro iecting laterad of the dorsal .
.
    .
.
  111 Fig.
4.
 SpathaHum paranense n. sp.
portion oi the lateral lobes a Lateral outline of head and pronotum.
considerable distance the X 2 greatest width of the pronotum i.e. between these angles is slightly greater than the length from the cephalic margin along the median line to the caudal margin exclusive of the projections lateral lobes of the pronotum longer than deep ventral margin sinuate cephalad ventrocaudal angle rectangulate caudal margin with three projecting tubercles diverted lateral carinse of the prozona strongly marked.
Tegmina about two and onehalf times the greatest absolute length of the pronotum apical margin acuteangulate with the immediate apex rounded.
Wings about fourfifths the length of the tegmina.
Prosternal ridge lamellate arcuate with the concavity cephalad the greatest depth mesad.
Interspace between the mesosternal and metasternal lobes very strongly transverse.
Caudal femora slightly more than fourfifths the length of the tegmina the genicular lobes and the mediogenicular process acute mediodorsal carina with three low rounded lobes ventrolateral carina distinctly but not greatly produced caudal tibiae with eight spines on the lateral margins ten on the internal margins.
General colors cinnamon woodbroAvn and sealbrown marbled and mingled together lined streaked and washed one on the other.
Head with the face darker than the vertex fastigium and genae the carinse of the same region lined with sealbrown eyes raw umber antennae Vandyke brown edged with cinnamon.
Pronotum with the disk and lateral lobes of the prozona with sealbrown predominating crest dirty wood brown disk of the metazona nearly all cinnamon darker at the margins and lined with sealbrown mesad lateral lobes of the metazona sealbrown between the principal ridges.
Tegmina pale walnutbrown with a mediolongitudinal series of small dark blotches the sutural margins suffused and the whole surface distinctly marbled with shades of brown.
Limbs dirty woodbrown the spines on the caudal femora very narrowly and weakly tipped with black.
Measurements.
Length of body 30 mm.
Jliength of pronotum .
9.5  Greatest caudal width of disk of pronotum  .
8.2 '' Length of tegmen... 22  Length of caudal femur 16.8  The type is the only specimen of the species examined.
LOCUSTINiE.
DIEDRONOTUS Bolivar.
Diedronotus rosulentus Stai.
1S78.
TrapidoHotus rosulentus Stal Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.Akad.
Hand. V No.
9 p. 19.
New Grenada.
Surinam.
U. S. N. M. Two c.
These specimens have the tegmina with the transverse fuscous clouds very distinct proximad becoming weak distad and extending across the tegmina except for the anal area.
The rosy suffusion of the costal section of the wing is weaker than on the disk being only a coloration of the veins on a fuscous ground.
Brunner has recorded this species from near Guayaquil Ecuador.
CHROMACEIS Walker.
Chromacris peruviana Pictet and Saussure.
1887.
Rho77ialea peruviana Pictet and Saussure Mittheil.
Schweiz.
Ent.
Gesell. VII p. 352.
Peru.
Piches and Perene Valleys Peru 20003000 feet.
Soc.
Geog.
cle Lima.
U. S. N. M. ld'19.
The size of the female of this species is very considerable and would serve in a great measure to identifj it aside from the slender form and distinctive coloration.
This appears to be the first definite record of the species.
TROPIDACRIS Scudder.
Tropidacris latreillei Perty.
1830.
Acrydimn Latreillei Perty in Spix and Martius Delect.
Anim.
Art. p. 123 pi.
XXIV fig.
4.
Amazon River.
Tobago West Indies.
B.
Sharp.
A. N. S.
Phila.
One 9 .
Port of Spain Trinidad.
Ernst T.
Giers.
U. S. N. M. Two 9 .
Colon Panama.
Wm.
Lill.
U. S. N. M. One 9 .
This species has a broad blackish margin to the wings the proximal portion of the margin being colored the same as the peripheral section while the caudal tibiae are chiefly glaucousgreen.
True Tropidacris dux Drury'' from the Bay of Honduras appears to be the species which Pictet and Saussure have described as Tropidaais cardinalis as shown by the general reddish color of the limbs and narrow black margin of the wings both features distinctly indicated in Drury's description and figure.
It would seem from our present knowledge of the duxlatreillei group that there is a regular increase southward in the width of the blackish margin to the wings the individuals from the northern section of the range of the group have the marginal band ver' narrow those from the southern part of the range having it wide.
The future may shoAV the necessity of considering the various species allied to dux as mere geographic races.
Tropidacris cristata Linnaeus.
Margarita Island Venezuela.
Wirt Robinson.
U. S. N. M. Two 9.
One of these specimens is larger than any of a numljer of mainland specimens examined by the author.'
OPHTHALMOLAMPIS Saussure.
1859.
Ophthalmokunpis Sau.ssure Revue et Magasin de Zoologie 2e ser. XI p. 394.
Included 0. colibri and yersini Saussure of which the former has been designated as the type by Kirby.
Ophthalmolampis colibri Saussure.
1859.
0mmatnlnnpis Ophthalmolampis colibri Saussure Revue et Magasin de Zoologie 2e ser. XI p. 394.
Guiana.
Surinam.
May to September.
Hebard Collection.
One 9 .
This individual undoubtedly belongs to Saussure's species the peculiar type of coloration of the pronotum and tegmina being essentially as he describes.
As the original brief description was based on a. male the female is here described.
Size medium form robust surface except that of the abdomen rugulose.
Head broad face slightly flattened occiput rounded hardly elevated dorsad of the level of the pronotum fastigium narrow the length not less than the greatest width longitudinally sulcate 3 must.
Exot.
Ins. II p. 82 pi.
XLIV.
interocular space very narrow less than half the width of the narrowest portion of the fastigium interantennal portion of the frontal costa distinctly but not greatly produced rounding into the fastigium somewhat expanded not sulcate or punctate costa for a short distance dorsad and ventrad of the ocellus narrow and sulcate costa not present ventrad of this portion face rugosopunctate moderately retreating when viewed from the lateral aspect lateral facial carinse not sharply defined converging dorsad eyes large subovate moderately prominent antennae slightly shorter than the pronotum thick slightly depressed.
Pronotum nearly twice as long as the exposed portion of the head the greatest caudal width of the whole pronotum nearly equal to the length cephalic margin slightly arcuate with a distinct but shallow median emargination caudal margin rounded obtuseangulate  three transverse sulci deeply impressed on the dorsum and the caudal two as distinctly indicated on the lateral lobes which they cross almost to the ventral margin median carina absent lateral carinse indicated only as raised welts which are traversed by all the sulci and bear a different coloring from the remainder of the pronotum dorsum strongly and closely punctate lateral lobes with the extreme dorsal length somewhat greater than the depth ventral margin distinctly sinuatoemarginate cephalad ventrocaudal angle broadly rounded.
Tegmina about three times as long as the head narrow arched and overlapping completely covered with numerous very small impressed areolae costal margin straight except for a slight proximal expansion sutural margin very slightly arcuate apex obliquely rotundatotruncate principal veins alone apparent.
Wings reaching to the tips of the tegmina.
Prosternal spine very short thick strongly transverse blunt.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes slightly transverse and very slightly broader than the lobes themselves interspace between the metasternal lobes trigonal strongly narrowed caudad.
Cephahc and median limbs rather short.
Caudal femora about twice as long as the pronotum robust inflated the greatest thickness being about twothirds the depth which latter is contained three times in the length carinse serratodentate particularly the mediodorsal pagina with a wellmarked and regular pattern impressed by punctations genicular extremity large genicular lobes broad caudal tibise about fourfifths the length of the femora armed on the external margin with seven spines one of which is apical and with six on the internal margin tarsi about threefourths the length of the tibise slender second and third joints subequal and each longer than the first joint.
General colors bay and gambogeyellow.
A very broad bar of bay covers the whole occiput the dorsum of the pronotum and twothirds of the tegmina this area being edged laterad on the occiput and pronotum with a narrow line of white  on the tegmina are placed two similar parallel white lines the area between them being carmine and that between the innermost line and the bay color black the costal edge of the tegmina is greenish vitreous.
Dorsum of fastigium pomegranate purple with a very narrow median line of pale color front of fastigium peagreen face dull olivegreen sprinkled with reddish area ventrocaudad of the eyes olivegreen a bar of white extending obliquely from the insertion of the antennae to the ventrocephalad angle of the pronotum eyes mars brown antennae with the proximal joint pale remainder black.
Pronotum with the lateral lobes gambogeyellow with a slight greenish tinge.
Pleura venter and abdomen similar in color to the lateral lobes of the pronotum the dorsum of the abdomen bearing a broad median bar of pale liverbrown.
Cephalic and median limbs similar in color to the lateral lobes of the pronotum the median femora with a distinct maroon wash tarsal joints distinctly greenish.
Caudal femora very pale oilgreen the genicular region blackish except for a pure white spot on each genicular lobe serrations on mediodorsal carina black caudal tibiae oil green with a pregenicular area and the sides of the genicular portion black genicular angle touched with reddish distal half of tibiae blackish internally french green externally spines and spurs tipped with black caudal tarsi very pale greenish the two proximal joints washed with pinkish.
Measure7nents.
Length of body 26 mm.
Length of pronotum 6.8  Length of tegmen 12 .5  Length of caudal femur 14.3  T.aNIOPHORA sti.
187.3.
Twniophora Stl Recensio Orthopterorum I p. .34 53.
Included T. detitipes and geniculata Stal of which dentipes has been designated as the type by Kirby.
Taeniophora femorata Bruner.
1907.
Tmiiophora femorata Bruner Biol.
Cent.Amer. Orth. II p. 245.
Pozo Azul Costa Rica.
Chiriqui Panama.
Hebard Collection.
One male.
This specimen agrees fully with the description of femorata except for the coloration of the antennse and the cephahc and median limbs which instead of being dark ohvaceous are dull ochraceous.
HENIA GiglioTos.
1898.
Henia GiglioTos BoUott Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino XIII No.
311 pp.
45 and .55.
Type.
 Gryllus frenatus Marschall.
Henia boliviana n. sp.
Type 9  Yungas de la Paz Bolivia altitude 1000 meters.
Hebard Collection.
Differing from the type species in some details of the coloration Fig.
5.
 Henia bolimana n. sp.
Lateral view of type.
X 4.
the larger size and proportionately longer caudal limbs tegmina and wings.
Size medium form elongate surface shiny.
Head with its dorsal length slightly more than half that of the pronotum dorsum slightly punctate occiput hardly elevated interocular region less than half the width of the fastigium and descending slightly from the occiput fastigium acute with the lateral margins slightly arcuate median carina distinct on the dorsum of the fastigium fastigial angle truncate when viewed from the side rounding into the decidedly retreating face frontal costa narrow not sharply defined shallowly and narrowly sulcate ventrad of the ocellus not sulcate dorsad 1913.
93 eyes subovate moderately prominent antennae filiform about twice the length of the head and pronotum together.
Pronotum rather narrow the greatest  '' dorsal caudal width contained nearly twice in ' the length cephalic margin of the disk slightly '' arcuate caudal margin considerably arcuate '' median carina very weak subobsolete on the metazona transverse sulci three in number of '' which only the caudal cuts the median carina metazona one and onehalf times the length of the prozona slightly ascendant when seen '' .'
from the side lateral shoulders well rounded '' lateral lobes distinctly longer than high ventral V margin obliquely sinuatoemarginate cephalad V broadly rounded caudad entire disk and metazona of the lateral lobes punctate.
Tegmina quite narrow lanceolate costal lobe very shallow spurious intercalary vein present apex very narrowly rounded.
Prosternal spine distinctly compressed moderately acute with a distinct caudal trend.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes slightly transverse the margins of the lobes strongly arcuate metasternal lobes subattingent.
Pleura with their dorsal portions punctate.
Ovipositor jaws very short and thick moderately compressed teeth robust.
Cephalic and median limbs slender the median distinctly longer than the cephalic.
Caudal femora slightly surpassing the tips of the tegmina moderately slender genicular lobes acute surface glabrous pattern of the pagina consisting of arcuate or arcuatoangulate lines caudal tibia somewhat shorter than the caudal femora distinctly sinuate armed on the external margin with six spines on the internal with nine both margins with distinct low lamellate expansions on the distal half caudal tarsi about half the length of the tibiae the proximal joint hardly shorter than the third second joint less than half the length of the first arolium small.
General colors yellow and black.
Head with the dorsum of the fastigium interocular region and occiput oliveyellow front and sides of the fastigium and broad postocular bars shining black face and gense dull greenishyellow the latter clear gambogeyellow Fig.
6.
 Henia bolt vian a n. sp.
Dorsal view of head and pronot u m of type.
X 4.
 dorsad eyes burnt umber.
Pronotum with the dorsum oliveyellow this area expanding caudad continuations of the cephalic postocular bars shining black ventral half of the lateral lobes similar to the genge.
Tegmina with the anal field clay color with a touch of greenish remainder shining black.
Venter and abdomen pale cinnamon.
Pleura blackish dorsad this area edged with gambogeyellow.
Cephalic and median femora dirty oliveyellow the tibiae and tarsi dull glaucous.
Caudal femora gambogeyellow the genicular arches and area surrounding each of them shining black genicular lobes very pale greenish caudal tibiae glaucous blue the color deep on the distal half spines whitish tipped with black.
Measurements.
Length of body 
21 .8 mm.
Length of pronotum 5  Length of tegmen 15 .8  Length of caudal femur 13.8  The type specimen is the only one of the species examined.
COPIOCERA Burmeister.
Copiocera surinamensis n. sp.
Type 9  Surinam.
Hebard Collection.
Closely allied to C. specularis and lepida Gerstaecker but differing Fig.
7.
 Copiocera surinamensis n. sp Lateral view of type.
X 2.
from both in the depressed proximal portion of the antennae and the carmine internal faces of the femora from specularis it also differs in the'more acute fastigium the more uniform size of the pronotal punctures and the smaller size and proportionately shorter wings  Mittheil.
Naturwissen.
Ver.
NeuVorpomm.
Rugen XX pp.
3435 1889.
1913.
95 from lepidus it also differs in the dull olivaceous caudal tibiae and tarsi.
Size medium form very elongate surface of the pronotum and pleura scabrosopunctate of the abdomen shiny.
Head with the dorsal length about fourfifths that of the dorsum of the pronotum occiput slightly arched not elevated interocular space nearly twothirds the greatest width of the fastigium fa.stigium acuteangulate plane angle when seen from the side rotundatotruncate  face very considerably retreating frontal costa distinct only to a short distance ventrad of the ocellus appreciably constricted immediately ventrad of the ocellus and faintly so dorsad of the same point decidedly depressed within its margins eyes elongate ovate longer than the infraocular portion of the gense moderately prominent when viewed from the dorsum antennae distinctly but not greatly longer than the head and pronotum somewhat ensiform the expansion almost wholly in the five proximal joints the distal half tapering almost imperceptibly the apex somewhat blunt.
Pronotum with the greatest caudal width of the disk contained one and twothirds times in the length cephalic margin truncatoarcuate caudal margin very slightly obtuseangulate median carina present only on the metazona where it is but little elevated transverse sulci three in number metazona contained one and onehalf times in the prozona lateral lobes slightly longer than deep ventral margin arcuatoemarginate cephalad truncate caudad caudal angle bluntl' rectangulate.
Tegmina about five times the length of the pronotum subequal in width the latter being about twothirds the dorsal length of the pronotum costal margin considerably arcuate in the distal third sutural margin nearly straight apex narrowly rounded intercalary area without any longitudinal vein.
Prosternal process transverse constricted mesad the apical portion somewhat compressed subfusiform and the lateral processes blunt interspace between the mesosternal lobes very narrow metasternal lobes contiguous.
Cephalic and median limbs short rather slender.
Caudal femora slightly more than half the length of the tegmina compressed rather regularly tapering the greatest width contained about five and onehalf times in the Fig.
8.
 Copiocera suri7iamensis n. sp.
Dorsal view of head and pronotum.
X 2.
length caudal tibiae slightly shorter than the femora external margins armed with five spines of which the distal three are grouped separate from the others internal margins with ten to eleven spines caudal tarsi with the second joint slightly more than half the length of the first third slightly longer than the first.
General color very dull olivegreen slightly yellowish on the head.
Antennae and fastigium blackish the distal fifth of the antennae cadmiumyellow eyes raw umber.
Abdomen Chinese orange dorsad and laterad the ventral and lateral portions of the intersegmental margins of the dorsal sclerites broadly blackish leaving the orange as semicircular blotches visible ventrad of the closed tegmina.
Cephalic and median limbs washed with very dull purplish.
Internal and ventral faces of the caudal femora very deep maroonpurple internal face of the genicular region of the caudal femora and tibiae black external face of the same area of the former with an apical and median spot on the lobes as well as the arches and dorsal portion of the same region cadmiumyellow caudal tibiae dirty purplishbrown the spines black.
Measurements.
Length of body 42 .
5 mm.
Length of pronotum 7 Length of tegmen .s 36 .5 Length of caudal femur 19 The type is unique.
ZYGOCLISTRON Rehn.
Zygoclistron acutum u sp.
Type 9  Petropolis State of Rio de Janeiro Brazil.
Hebard Collection.
Closely related to Z. superbwn Rehn but differing in the more acute fastigium the less expanded and much more shallowly sulcate frontal costa the more bullate prozona of the pronotum with the median carina of that portion weak and in the caudal width of the interspace between the metasternal lobes being equal to the narrowest portion of the interspace between the mesosternal lobes instead of distinctly wider as in superbum.
Size large form moderately robust.
Head with the occiput considerably arcuate but little elevated descending slightly to the interocular region which is slightly more than twothirds the width of fastigium fastigium slightly declivent the distal half acuteangulate when seen from the dorsum shallowly excavate angle of the fastigium when seen from the side rounded rectangulate  face slightly retreating frontal costa regularly expanding to the clypeal suture moderately excavate the margins somewhat sinuate face somewhat scabrous eyes subovoid slightly yg 912.Dorsal and lateral longer than the infraocular porviews of the fastigium of Zygotion of the gen moderately promiJ' rZ.S' 'I'Vffi'J' nent when seen from the dorsum.
1112.
x 4.
Pronotum somewhat inflated on the prozona deplanate on the metazona.
slightly tectate on the prozona the prozona somewhat elevated when seen in profile the metazona being rather straight and slightly less elevated dorsum of the pronotum slightly less than twice the dorsal length of the head cephalic and caudal margins obtuseangulate the former with the angle sharp the latter with it subtruncate and the sides of the angle slightly emarginate caudal width of the disk slightly more than twothirds the length median carina distinct rather high on the metazona blunt cut by three transverse sulci the metazona slightly shorter than the prozona lateral shoulders distinct on the metazona well rounded on the prozona lateral lobes distinctly longer than deep the ventral margin with a slight oblique truncation cephalad surface of the entire pronotum strongly scabrosopunctate.
Tegmina three and a third times the length of the pronotum reaching caudad of the tips of the femora costal margins moderately arcuate proximad and distad straight mesad sutural margin nearly straight apex rather narrowly rounded intercalary area with no distinct intercalary vein.
Prosternal spine somewhat compressed slightly bulbous and very much rounded longitudinally at the apex.
Interspace between the mesosternal lobes distinctly longer than broad metasternal lobes separated by a wedgeshaped interspace which at its narrowest point is subequal to the mesosternal interspace.
Cephalic and median limbs moderately robust rather short.
Caudal femora falling slightly short of the tips of the ovipositor jaws tapering rather slender caudal tibiae with eight to nine spines on the external margin internal margin with twelve spines considerably longer than those of the external margin.
7 Color pattern exactly as in Z. superbimi the colors themselves being the same vith the following exceptions yellow on dorsum of pronotum and anal area of tegmina duller and more ochraceous darker markings on pronotum more purplishred caudal femora' distinctly speckled with olivegreen.
Measurements.
Length of body 49 .5 mm.
Length of pronotum  10.8 Greatest dorsal width of disk of pronotum 7.3  Length of tegmen 35.8 Length of caudal femur 23.2  The type specimen alone has been examined.
VILERNA Stai.
Vilerna rugulosa Stal.
Santa Catharina Brazil.
Hebard Collection.
One 9 .
Rio Janeiro Brazil.
Hebard Collection.
One 9 .
Espirito Santo Brazil.
Hebard Collection.
One 9 .
The tegmina slightly exceed the tips of the caudal femora in the Santa Catharina specimen.
CALETODES GiglioTos.
1898.
Caletodes GiglioTo.s BoUett.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino XIII No.
311 pp.
47 58. .
Type.
 C. alatus GiglioTos designated by Kirby.
Caletodes pulchripes n. sp.
Type 9  Balzapamba Ecuador.
R.
Haensch.
Hebard Collection.
Allied to C. alatus from Gualaquiza and Valley of Santiago Ecuador but differing in the structure of the frontal costa the incised caudal angle of the pronotum and the rounded apex of the fastigium.
From C. festce GiglioTos from the Valley of Santiago it differs in that the lateral carinse of the pronotum are much less apparent than the median in the longer tegmina which are normal and not lateral in position in the cylindrical prosternal spine and the lesser size.
Size medium form rather robust surface of head and pleura rugulose of pronotum rugosotuberculate dorsum of abdomen with numerous small irregular transverse wrinkles.
Head with the dorsum about fiveeighths the dorsal length of the pronotum occiput considerably arcuate distinctly but slightly elevated descending 1913.
99 to the interocular space which is hardly more than half the greatest width of the fastigium occiput to junction with fastigium bearing a Fig.
13.
 Caletodes pidchripes n. sp.
Lateral view of type.
X 3.
distinct but rather irregular median carina fastigium produced blunt lanceolate when seen from the dorsum the lateral margins subparallel proximad the distal section regularly converging to the wellrounded apex a pair of irregular lateral carinse are present on the proximal portion the entire surface of the dorsum of the fastigium concavely excavate when seen from the side the angle of the fastigium is seen to be rounded rectangulate dorsad the ventral section of the process strongly arcuate and curving into the slightly retreating face the proximodorsal half of the fastigium horizontal the distal half considerably declivent frontal costa extending to the cljrpeal suture distinctly excavate considerably constricted ventrad of the ocellus accessory facial carinse very slightly divergent ventrad eyes very slightly reniform in shape subequal to the infraocular portion of the gense moderately prominent when viewed from the dorsum antennae equal to the pronotum and half the length of the head ensiform the segments distinct flattened subtriangular in section the length of the segments beyond the fourth usually .alternates short and long apex blunt.
Pronotum with the length Fig.
14.
 Caletodes pidchripes n. sp.
Dorsal outline of head and pronotum.
X 3.
one and twothirds times that of the head the greatest caudal width of the disk contained about one and onehalf times in the length cephalic margin subtruncate caudal margin obtuseangulate the apex very blunt and obtusely incised the margins somewhat sinuate median carina distinct but low and somewhat irregular cut by three transverse sulci the caudal the deepest and widest metazona about threefourths the length Pig 15 Caletodes o the prozona lateral carinae formed only of pulchripes n. sp.
blunt tubercles and but little apparent except Outline of face.
i i i. xv j. j i i i X 4 caudad where they are represented by rounded shoulders lateral lobes longer than deep cephalic and caudal margins obliquely converging ventral margin with a considerable sinuate emargination cephalad dorsal outline of the pronotum very slightly arched on the cephalic portion of the prozona straight on the remainder of the pronotum.
Tegmina slightly longer than the head and pronotum together attingent and overlapping dorsad tapering in the distal twothirds costal margin with a considerable proximal lobe nearly straight thence to the apex sutural margin very slightly arcuate proximad intercalary area with a distinct intercalary vein.
Prosternal spine erects regularly tapering apex slightly blunted interspace between the mesosternal lobes very slightly transverse interspace between the metasternal lobes with its caudal width only about half that between the mesosternal lobes.
Ovipositor jaws short and thick the proximal portions of the margins blunt serrate.
Cephalic and median limbs moderately robust.
Caudal femora about twice the length of the pronotum robust the margins distinctly serrate the pagina distinctly patterned the ridges with numerous asperities genicular lobes rounded caudal tibiae slightly shorter than the femora slightly but very noticeably decurved proximad external margin with seven spines internal with nine caudal tarsi with the proximal and distal joints subequal arolium present.
General color bistre washed very irregularly and not at all strongly with drab asperities on the pronotum limbs and spotting on facial carinse blackish eyes mummy brown caudal femora with a spot on the ventromedian portion of the lateral face cinnamon internal face washed with carmine internoventral with crimson the dorsal face with traces of three cinnamon bands the distal of which is an imperfect annulus genicular arches and internal genicular face clay color caudal tibiae crimson the external face with some of the general color and an imperfect pale pregenicular annulus also present spines ochraceous tipped with black.
Measvrements.
Length of body 27 mm.
Length of pronotmn 6.7  Length of tegmen 12  Length of caudal femur 13.2  The type is unique.
SAPARUS GiglioTo3.
1898.
Saparus GiglioTos Bollett.
Mus.
Zool.
.nat.
Comp. XIII No.
311 pp.
47 60.
Type.
 Saparus cequatorialis GiglioTos.
Saparus aequatorialis GiglioTos.
1898.
Sapnrus cequatorialis GiglioTos Bollett.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp. XIII No.
311 p. 61.
Valley of Santiago Ecuador.
Piches and Perene Valleys 2000 to 3000 feet Peru.
Soc.
Geog.
de Lima.
U. S. N. M. One cf  one 9 .
The male individual here recorded is slightly smaller than the type measurements given by GiglioTos.
As the female sex was hitherto unknown a few notes are here given from the specimen in hand.
The eyes are less prominent in the female than in the male while the head is broader proportionately at the base of the mandibles.
The lateral facial carina
are much more divergent in the female while the structure of the fastigium and frontal costa is about the same in both sexes.
The interspace between the mesosternal lobes is slightly longitudinal in the male subquadrate in the female while the metasternal lobes are separated by a very narrow space in the male and by a considerable transverse interspace in the female.
The face and mouth parts of the male are very pale ochraceous distinctly contrasted with the general coloration.
Measurements.
cf' 9 Length of body 26 mm.
38 mm.
Length of dorsum of pronotum 5  7  Length of tegmen 27.5  29  Greatest width of tegmen 4.5  6.5  Length of caudal femur 16 '' 20.8  ANTIPHANES Stai.
1878.
Antiphanes Stl Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.
Akad.
HandJingar V No.
4 p. 35.
Type.
 Ommatolampis nodicoUis Burmeister.
Antiphanes nodicollis Burmeister.
1838.
0mmatolampis nodicollis Burmeister Handb.
der Entom. Bd.
II.
Abtheil.
II pt.
I p. 637.
Brazil.
Minas Geraes Brazil.
1897.
Hebard Collection.
One 
.
With only Burmeister 's very brief description to furnish one the characters of the species it is somewhat difficult to decide whether the specimen in hand is his species or not.
Burmeister describes the genicular regions caudal tibiae and tarsi as sanguineous while in the Minas Geraes individual only the tarsi and distal half of the tibiae are of that colpr but this may possibly be due to the fact that the original specimen was a male.
Until further evidence is at hand it seems preferable to use Burmeister's name for the specimen before us.
OMMATOLAMPIS Burmeister.
1838.
Ommatolampis Burmeister Handbuch der Entom. Bd.
II Abtheil.
II pt.
I p. 636.
Type designated by Kirby  0. perspicillata Johansson.
Ommatolampis perspicillata Johansson.
1763.
Gryllus perspicillatus Johansson Amoen.
Acad. VI p. 398.
IndiLs.
Surinam.
Hebard Collection.
One cf one 9.
Ommatolampis palpata Stl.
1878.
0mmalolampis palpata StSl Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.Akad.
Hand. V No.
4 p. 81.
Peru.
Piches and Perene Valleys 20003000 feet elevation Peru.
Soc.
Geog.
de Lima.
U. S. N. M. One 9 .
This record appears to be the first since the description of the species.
The measurements of the specimen are as follows Length of body 34 mm.
Length of pronotum 6.5  Greatest caudal width of pronotum 7.8  Length of tegmcn 1.5  Length of caudal femur 22.3  OULENOTACRIS n. gen.s A member of the Nicarchi and related to Anablysis Gerstaecker but differing in the lesser number of antennal joints and the absence of any prominent tubercles on the pronotum.
The new genus also possesses a heavy robust structure quite different from Anablysis.
Fastigium subrectangulate a slight median longitudinal depression present interantennal projection distinct but not greatly con5 0'' 7 cicatrice  noror back fiKpic locust.
1913.1 103 spicuous frontal costa punctate dorsad sulcate ventrad eyes prominent antennae fifteenjointed.
Pronotum punctate with no prominent lobes or carinae transverse sulci well impressed.
Tegmina exceeding the apex of the abdomen narrow tapering.
Interspaces between the mesosternal and metasternal lobes subquadrate.
Ovipositor jaws short and thick.
Caudal limbs robust femora with the margins finely serrate external margin of the tibia
with six spines no apical external spine present tarsi with the first and third joints subequal second about half the length of the first.
Type  0. robusta n. sp.
Oulenotacris robusta n. sp.
Type 9  Surinam.
MaySeptember.
Hebard Collection.
 Size moderately small form very robust surface of pronotum pleura face and dorsal face of the femora punctate.
Head with the dorsal length about threefifths that of the pronotum occiput very shghtly arched descending appreciably to the interocular region which is about equal in width to half that of the fastigium fastigium shghtly broader than long rectangulate with the apex truncate dorsum with a distinct but very slight longitudinal line fastigial process moderately protuberant when seen from the side rotundatotruncate face slightly retreating frontal costa broadest between the antennae distinctly constricted ventrad of the ocellus and toward the sutural margin not very deeply sulcate around and ventrad of the ocellus punctate dorsad supplementary facial carinae prominent subparallel no distinct lateral foveolae eyes subreniform ovate distinctlj longer than the infraocular sulcus very prominent from both aspects antennae about equal to the head and pronotum in length thick slightly depressed blunt.
Pronotum with the greatest width of the disk about fourfifths the length of the same Fig.
16.
 Oulenotacris robusta n. sp.
Dorsal view of type.
X3.
phalic margin gently arcuate with a very broad and shallow median emargination caudal margin obtuseangulate median carina very faintly indicated on the metazona and the cephalic half of the prozona absent elsewhere transverse sulci distinct the caudal very deep on the median portion of the dorsum  disk almost flat lateral angles rounded but apparent  lateral lobes slightly longer than deep the ventrocephalic angle broadly excised by a deep emargination.
Tegmina distinctly exceeding the apex of the abdomen and slightly exceeding the tips of the caudal femora tapering distal third narrow with the apex narrowly rounded costal margin with a distinct but shallow lobe Fig.
17.
 Oulenotacris robusta n. sp.
Lateral view of type.
X 3.
intercalary vein distinct at least distad.
Prosternal spine very short and low subconoid interspace between the mesosternal lobes transverse interspace between the metasternal lobes subquadrate the cephalic width i.e. that between the foveolae greater than the caudal.
Abdomen with the ovipositor jaws distinctly compressed and short.
Cephalic and median limbs of medium size.
Caudal femora robust the greatest width contained about three and a half times in the length mediodorsal carina moderately serrate pagina with the pattern distinct and regular genicular lobes with the ventral margin emarginate distad caudal tibiae distinctly shorter than the femora armed on the external margin with six spines internal margin with eight to nine spines no apical spine present on the external margin caudal tarsi about half the length of the tibise third joint shghtly longer than the first second about half the length of the first arolia of medium size.
General color bistre more olivaceous on the dorsum and the greater area of the later portion of the metazona.
Occiput face and mouth parts with quite a little dull yellowish mingled with the general color gense soiled yellowish this being continued on the lateral lobes of the pronotum by an obliquely defined ventral patch of chromeyellow facial carinae dashed with blackish.
Eyes tawnyolive antennae olive.
Dorsal portion of the lateral lobes of the prozona washed with dull claretbrowTi.
Tegmina with numerous small quadrate areas of woodbrowTi on the general color.
Disk of the wings lemonyellow.
Pleura with a broken continuation of the yellow pronotal bar and an additional dash of dull yellowish bordered by dull blackish.
Venter raw umber dorsum of the abdomen prout's brown median area of the lateral aspect of the proximal segments shining blackish.
Cephalic and median femora burnt umber and blackish.
Caudal femora vinaceous rufous dorsad ecrudrab on the ventral portion of the pagina maroon on the externoventral face carmine on the internal face two indistinct oblique bars are present sealbrowai in color but occasionally touched with greenish genicular region dark clay color caudal tibiae very dull purplish on the internal face very dull olivegreen on the external face a broad poorly defined proximal area pale spines pale yellow tipped with black.
Measurements.
Length of body 23 mm.
Length of pronotum 5.2  Length of tegmen 17 .5  Length of caudal femur 13.2  The tvpe is unique.
SITALCES stai.
1878.
Sitalces Stl Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.
Akad.
Handlingar V Xo.
9 p. 16.
TjToe designated by Kirb  S. volxemi Stal.
Sitalces balzapambae n. sp.
Type d  Balzapamba Ecuador R.
Haensch.
Hebard Collection.
Fig.
18.
 Sitalces balzapambce n. sp.
Lateral view of type.
X 4.
Allied to S. trinitatis Bruner with a specimen of which it has been compared but differing in the less prominent eyes the broader interspace between the same the more tectate dorsum of the pronotum the broader and differently shaped distal portion of the tegmina and very different character of the apex of the abdomen.
Size small form shghtly compressed a distinct median carina present from the cephalic margin of the dorsum of the pronotum to the apex of the abdomen the dorsum for this reason being tectate surface of the thoracic segments dorsum of the head and to an extent of the limbs rugulosopunctate.
Head with its dorsal length threefifths that of the pronotum in the male half the length of the same in the female occiput distinctly arcuate and provided with a pair of converging irregular channels interocular space about half the greatest width of the fastigium provided with a shallow but distinct sulcus which extends to the fastigial margin fastigium distinctly broader than long rounded rectangulate very slightly acute in the male the immediate angle subtruncate surface with a pair of rather low parallel ridges flanking the central sulcus margins with a distinctly elevated rim fastigial process slightly protuberant when seen from the side subtruncate forming an appreciable angle with the dorsum of the fastigium and gently curving ventrad into the slightly retreating face frontal costa continuous very slightly expanding ventrad of the ocellus punctate dorsad sulcate from between the antennae ventrad supplementary facial carinse   slightly sinuate and slightly divergent ventrad V y areas usually occupied by the lateral foveolae .'.
.7 strongly punctate eyes elliptical longer and narrower in the female than in the male length   very considerably more than that of the infraocular portion of the gense distinctly prominent in both sexes.
Pronotum with the greatest caudal width of the disk contained one and onequarter cf to one and onethird 9 times in the length of the disk distinctly tectate cephalic margin slightly arcuate caudal margin rotundatotruncate with a wellmarked median ' ffihapamh Jn.sn.
Vshaped emargination which is less pronounced Dorsal outline of in the female than in the male median carina turn 'of type distinct subequal cut by three transverse sulci X 4.
metazona about half the length of the prozona lateral angles not at all strongly marked slightly converging to the first transverse sulcus then regularly but not greatly diverging caudad lateral lobes distinctly longer than deep the cephalic portion of the ventral margin obliquely emarginate caudoventral angle very broadly rounded.
Tegmina in both sexes slightly surpassing the caudal margin of the metanotum slightly curved ventrad with the greatest width at the distal third apex rounded.
Prosternal spine erect conical not very sharp interspace between the mesosternal lobes moderately transverse interspace between the metasternal lobes of the usual keystone shape much narrower than that between the mesosternal lobes.
Ovipositor jaws of the female very slightly compressed the dorsal pair subequal in depth in the proximal half supraanal plate of the male acute trigonal cerci of the male styliform reaching about to the apex of the supraanal plate subgenital plate with the apex not elevated above the general dorsal margin of the plate rounded when seen from the dorsum.
Cephalic and median limbs proportionately more robust in the male than in the female.
Caudal femora moderately robust in the male weaker and smaller proportionately in the female exceeding the apex of the abdomen in both sexes pagina with the pattern rather coarse but regular and distinct  mediodorsal carina finely serrulate caudal tibiae slightly shorter than the femora armed on the external margin with eight spines on the internal with nine spines caudal tarsi with the third joint appreciably longer than the first.
General color in the female drab sprinkled lined and dotted with blackish in the male Isabella color marked in the same fashion.
An area along the median line of the body almost clear base color in the male the sides of the proximal twothirds of the abdomen shining black in both sexes this area being more extended dorsad in the male.
Head with the face naples yellow in the male dull orangebuff in the female dull blackish around the bases of the antennae occiput and cheeks prout's brown in the male Vandyke brown in the female eyes pale tawnyolive in the male walnutbrown in the female.
Pronotum with the dorsal portion of the lateral lobes dark median carina blackish particularly in the male ventral half of the lateral lobes the same color as the face limited dorsad by an obtuse angulate patch of blackish.
Tegmina prout's brown in the male walnutbrown in the female.
Venter of the abdomen primroseyellow in the male raw umber in the female provided in each sex with a mediolongitudinal shining blackishljrown bar reaching to the margin of the subgenital plate sternal plates mottled blackish and primroseyellow cf  or blackish and raw umber 9.
Cephalic and median limbs of the general colors.
Caudal limbs broccolibrown in the male chocolatebrown in the female the dorsal surface at about twofifths the distance from the base provided with a velutinous black spot internal face blueblack ventral faces very deep bottlegreen caudal tibiae glaucous paler in the male the spines yellowish with the apical half black.
Afeasurenmits.
cT 9 Length of body 17 mm.
20.4 mm.
Length of pronotum 3.8  4.4  Length of tegmen 3.5  4  Length of caudal femur 10.6  12  In addition to the male type we have before us a female allotype the differential characters of which are included in the above description.
Sitalces debilis n. sp.
Type 9  Rosario Santa Inez 1250 meters east of the Andes. October 31 1899.
Hebard Collection.
Belonging to the section a of the genus as described by Stal Fig.
20.Sitalces debilis n. sp.
Lateral view of type.
X 3.
lut not closely related to either of the two species there described or the more recently characterized S. nudus Bruner.
Size rather small form robust subfusiform surface almost The locality for this species is in every probability Rosario Gualaquiza Valley basin of the Rio Maranon Eucador. 
entirely rugosopunctate.
Head with the dorsal length nearly threefifths that of the pronotum occiput slightly arched not elevated perceptibly descending to the interocular region the interspace being very narrow hardly more than a fourth the greatest fastigial width not regularly narrowing but of subequal width for some short distance fastigium transverse slightly obtuseangulate with the apex subtruncate the fastigial margins with a slight rim the surface of the fastigium slightly impressopunctate  fastigial process when seen from the side not projecting beyond the line of the face the latter being but very slightly retreating the fastigiofacial angle very slightly rounded frontal costa absent on the ventral portion of the face appreciably but not greatly narrowed dorsad and ventrad irregularly sulcate around the ocellus deeply punctate dorsad lateral foveolar areas  punctate supplementary facial carinse considerably divergent caudad eyes eUiptical very distinctly longer than the infraocular portion of the gense moderately prominent when viewed  from the dorsum.
Pronotum rounded transversely hardly tectate the length slightly shorter than the greatest caudal width cephalic margin subtruncate caudal margin truncate with a broad shallow median emargination  median carina distinct cephalad and caudad very weak mesad transverse sulci three in number prozona nearly '477
n'sp twice the length of the metazona lateral lobes Dorsal outline of of the pronotum not separated from the dorsum  f PJy by distinct angles or carinse rounding regularly X 3.
into the vertical lobes longer than deep cephalic and caudal margins somewhat sinuate ventral margin with a pronounced ventrocephalic emargination obtuseangulate caudad.
Mesonotum and metanotum very broadly obtuseangulate emarginate the metanotum with the angle more apparent than the mesonotum.
Tegmina and wings absent.
Prosternal spine rather small conical acute interspace between the mesosternal lobes slightly transverse  interspace between the metasternal lobes smaller than the mesosternal interspace slightl transverse.
Abdomen moderately compressed keeled dorsal ovipositor jaws vith their external margin very bluntly serrate.
Cephalic and median limbs rather slender.
Caudal femora about three times as long as the pronotum tapering the mediodorsal carina serrate the ventrolateral sparseljserratodentate with a weaker serration between the higher ones pagina regularly patterned ventral margin of the genicular lobes sinuate caudal tibiae very slightly shorter than the femora distinctly sinuate armed on the external margin with six spines on the internal margin with six to seven caudal tarsi with the proximal joint distinctly shorter than the third second hardly half the length of the proximal one.
General color olive blackishbrown on the ventral surface the face cheeks and dorsal portion of the mouth parts Isabella color yes cinnamon cephalad raw umber caudad.
Caudal femora pale tawnyolive the dorsal surface entirely washed with the same genicular arches blackishbrown ventral sulcus dark bottlegreen caudal tibiae dull olivegreen the spines french green with their distal halves black.
Measurements.
Length of body 20 mm.
Length of pronotum 4  Length of caudal femur 13  The type is unique.
SCHISTOCERCA Stai.
Schistocerca aegyptia Thunb..
181.5.
llryllus cegyplius Thunberg Mem.
I'Acad.
Imp.
Sci.
St.
Pctersb. V p. 247.
St. Bartholomew West Indies.
St. Thomas Danish West Indies.
December 1882.
A. Koebele.
U. S. N. M. One d.
When compared with a male of cegijptia from Culebra Island the St. Thomas specimen is seen to differ structurally only in the slightly shorter caudal femora.
The coloration of the St. Thomas individual has in a gi'eat measure been effaced by the preservative in which the specimen was immersed but the pattern as it remains is essentially the same as in the Culebra representative.
ScMstocerca vaga brevis n. subsp.
Types cf and 9  Clarion Island Pacific Ocean S. W. of Cape San Lucas Lower California.
Dr. G.
Baur.
U. S. N. M. This is an extremely interesting shortwinged form of the rather widely spread S. vaga immediately distinguishable by the short tegmina and wings which very slightly surpass the tips of the caudal femora.
The typical series of five one male and four females has been immersed in a liquid preservative and in consequence the coloration and to a certain extent minor structural characters can hardly be considered to furnish diagnostic characters.
On comparison with a series of vaga from a number of localities the Clarion Island series is seen to be practically identical except for the short tegmina and wings.
In view of the uniformity of this character in all of the five specimens we deem it best to consider the Clarion Island form at least a geographic subspecies limited as far as known to Clarion Island.
It is quite curious to note that typical vaga is found on Guadelupe Island off the west coast of Lower California in fact that island was one of the original localities and from the measurements given by Scudder it will be seen that the specimens were of the normal longwinged type.
The distance of Guadelupe Island from the nearest portion of the mainland i.e. Lower California is about one hundred and seventy miles while Clarion Island is about four hundred and thirtyfive miles from Cape San Lucas the nearest mainland point.
The difference in chstance may possibly account for the difference in wing length by the hypothesis that vaga regularly flies to and fro between Guadelupe Island and the mainland and the resident brood is recruited by new arrivals and produces through the influence of new blood and the presence thereby of a comparatively active migratory influence generations in which the wings are very powerful.
On the other hand.
Clarion Island was probably colonized by stray migrants and from these has evolved a shortwinged type through isolation and lack of use for the wings except in a restricted area.
While we are unaware of the presence of S. vaga on the Revillagegedo Islands the species and possibly subspecies may occur there the nearest one of the group Roca Partida being one hundred and forty miles distant from Clarion Island.
The measurements of the types of Schistocerca vaga hrevis are as follows  d 9 Length of body 30.5 mm.
43 mm.
Length of pronotum 7  9.5 Length of tegmen 24.5  33.5 Length of caudal femur 19.2  24.5  Schistocerca sequalis Scudder.
1899.
Schistocerca fequalh Scudder.
Proc.
Amer.
Acad.
Arts and Sci. XXXIV p. 458.
Demerara British Guiana.
Caracas Venezuela.
Dr. A.
Ernst.
U. S. N. M. One 9 .
This species is quite difficult to distinguish in the female sex from the allied S. desiUens Scudder but the color of the caudal tibiae i.e. varying shades of glaucous in cequalis and reddish in desiUens appears to be a convenient character by which to separate specimens.
In the male sex the form of the cerei tapering and very narrowly rounded in desiliens and subequal and subtruncate in wqualis is a fairly satisfactory clue to the species.
The cerci in the three males available for study have the apical angular emargination described by Scudder extrememly slight and hardly perceptible.
Six individuals three of each sex have been examined those in addition to .
the Caracas specimen being from Demerara and Bartica British Guiana.
Schistocerca peregrina Olivier.
1804.
Acridimn peregrinum Olivier Voyage I'Emp.
Othoman II p. 425.
Egypt Arabia Mesopotamia Persia.
Venezuela.
U. S. N. M. One 9 .
This specimen has been compared with undoubted specimens of S. peregrina received from the late Dr. Saussure.
Schistocerca paranensis Burmeister.
1861.
Acridium paranense Burmeister Reise durch La PlataStaaten I p. 491.
La Plata country Parand Entre Rios.
Medellin Antioquia Colombia.
1879.
Thos.
Herran.
U. S. N.M. One cf two 9 .
Caracas Venezuela.
Dr. A.
Ernst.
U. S. N. M. Three cf  seven 9 .
Berbice British Guiana.
September 6 1886.
J. J.
Quelch.
U. S. N. M. Two d three 9 .
From the specimens recorded above it is evident that this migratory and destructive locust is at times present in northern South America and from data with the Caracas series it seems that it appears in considerable assemblages.
Dr. Ernst's remarks are to the effect that the species invaded the region from September 1882 to January 1883 and he also states the flight was to the northeast and at a height of about twenty feet from the ground.
There is in this series a very considerable amount of variation in size in individuals of both sexes.
A number of specimens of the female sex are no larger than several of the Caracas males.
AIDEMONA Brunner.
Aidemona azteca Saussure.
Western Colombia.
Hebard Collection.
One 9 .
This specimen is not separable from females of the States of San Luis Potosi and Vera Cruz Mexico.
The range of the species is here extended some distance south of the previously known southern limit of the species.
DICHROPLUS Sai.
Dichroplus peruvianus Stil.
1878.
Plezotettix Dichroplus veruvianns Stl Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.Akad.
Handl. V No 9 p. 7.
Peru.
Piches and Perene Valleys 20003000 feet Peru.
Soc.
Geog.
de Lima.
U. S. N. M. Two cf  one 9 .
Yungas de la Paz 1000 meters Bolivia.
Hebard Collection.
One cf' and one 9 in coitu one additional 9 .
Dichroplus amoenus Stai.
1878.
Plezotettix Dichroplus amoenus Stai Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.
Akad.
Handl. V No.
9 p. 8.
Peru.J Minas Geraes Brazil.
1897.
Hebard Collection.
One 9 .
This specimen is more greenish than was the case with the type or types and the tegmina appear more acuminate than originally described.
Bruner has recorded this species from Cordoba Argentina.
NORTH BORDER RELATIONS OF THE TRIASSIC IN PENNSYLVANIA.
BY EDGAR T. WHERRY PH.D.
The uniform gentle northwest dip of the Triassic Redbeds throughout the greater part of the belt crossing southeastern Pennsylvania has been a subject of comment since the earliest days of study of the region.
Henry D. Rogers in his final report cleverly suggested that it was due to inclined deposition from northwardflowing waters such as can be observed in presentday river deltas.
The inadequacy of this explanation is made apparent however by the evident levelsurface origin of the fossil footprints and raindrop impressions which have since been found as well as by the fact that in certain places especially toward the northwest border of the belt the dips show considerable variations both in amount and direction.
No simple process of uplift and folding however can account for the relations observed.
The fact that thousands of feet of strata exposed in the southern portion of this belt are totally lacking along its northern edge implies that either profound faulting must have occurred there or that progressive overlap on an extensive scale must have accompanied the deposition of the beds.
In the course of the writer's studies of the Triassic carried on at intervals during the past six years some evidence bearing on this point has been accumulated.As shown elsewhere the Triassic of Pennsylvania can be divided into three formations which from the base upwards are the Stockton Norristown arkosic sandstone and conglomerate 5500 feet in maximum thickness which outcrops along the southern edge of the belt the Lockatong Gwynedd dark shale which appears as a lens between the other two 3500 feet thick at the Dela1 Geology of Pennsylvania II p. 814 18.58.
This was presented in abstract at the meeting of the Geological Society of America December 29 1911 Bull.
Geol.
Soc.
Amer. XXIII 745 and at the meeting of the Academy in conjunction with the Mineralogical and Geological Section May 21 1912 Proceedings 1912 p. 156 but is now for the first time published in full.
3 Age and Correlation of the 'New Red or Newark Group in Pennsvlvania Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1912 pp.
373379.
1913.1 115 ware River gradually thinning westward and dying out in northern Chester County but reappearing north of Lancaster and represented by 1000 feet of carbonaceous sandstones at the Susquehanna and the Brunswick red shale and conglomerate up to 16000 feet thick which lies against the older rocks along the northern boundary.
Although the evidence is not sufficient for definite correlation it seems probable that these are roughly equivalent to the Bunter Lower Keuper and Upper Keuper of Europe respectively.
The following sections represent two alternative explanations of the structure of the Triassic basin in this region.
GENERALIZED STRUCTURE SECTIONS of the TRIAS glC in N PENNSYLVANIA Scale lnci 6mle
  Pre Trial.
illtttv' Section A. Assamir A fault Ai The Norfhern Bewndory.
FVeTnassio Section B. AsJMinin Overlap At The Northern BoundorIt is believed that Section B most correctly depicts the relationships existing through the greater part of the Pennsylvania Triassic area although in Connecticut and in northern New Jersey sections of the type of A have been thought to accord best with the observed facts.
This conclusion is based first on studies of the actual contacts exposed along the northern boundary and second on certain inferences drawn from features shown by the rocks in other portions of the area.
While the northern boundary of the Triassic against the older rocks is usually marked by a slight depression and deeply covered by soil more or less definite contacts can be seen in at least six places namely Monroe on the Delaware Springtown Bucks County Boyertown Berks County south of Reading on the Schuylkill Cornwall Lebanon County and on the west bank of the Susquehanna below New Cumberland.
The writer's studies have not been extended southwest of the Susquehanna River but Mr. George W. Stose of the U. S. Geological Survey who has traced the line through the Fairfield Quadrangle states private communication that overlap relations occur there also.
The exposures at Monroe a small village on the west bank of the Delaware River along the EastonPhiladelphia trolley line nine miles south of the former place have been studied and described by Dr. H. B. Kiimmel. The Brunswick conglomerate appears to overlie a bluishgray probably Cambrian limestone although the actual contact is covered by talus and he regards it as probable that overthrust faulting has occurred.
There is admittedly no direct evidence of this but even if it does exist it must be of very limited extent and can have no bearing on the relation of the formations as a whole because the faultboundary shown in Section A would be of normal type and many thousands of feet in throw.
About 500 feet south of the first exposure a ledge of white rock appears at the base of the trolley cut and is solidly overlain by the Triassic conglomerate.
This may represent only a local phase of the Triassic itself and if so has no significance but it may also possibly be preTriassic limestone in which case the existence of a fault is out of the question.
About a mile and a half southeast of Springtown Bucks County five miles southwest of the Delaware what appears to be a contact is exposed in the bed of a brook.
A rounded ledge of a yellowish quartzite similar in all respects to the Cambrian Hardyston of the region at least 12 feet long and 4 feet wide shows fragments of typical Triassic conglomerate solidly welded to it.
It is true that neither rock can be traced to solid connection with the main exposures in the vicinity and the quartzite may not be in place but it is too large a mass to have been carried far.
For some twenty miles southwest of this point nothing that can be regarded as.
a definite contact has been discovered and there are reasons for believing that locally slight faults occur but at several places in the vicinity of Boyertown Berks County overlap relations are again shown.
As noted by Dr. Spencer along the road 'Ann.
Rept.
State Geol.
N. J. 1897 pp.
Ill 112.
5 Magnetite Deposits of the Cornwall Type in Pennsylvania Bull.
U. S. Ceol.
Surv. No.
359 p. 64 1908. in the valley of West Swamp Creek southeast from Bechtelsville metamorphosed shales  baked shales which may belong to the Mesozoic  overlie blue Paleozoic hmestones.
The exposure is not a good one yet there can be no doubt that actual overlap occurs.
Additional evidence for this vicinity is furnished by a well record described by DTnvilliers as follows From the Montgomery county line at A. Schultz's house three miles northeast of Bechtelsville .... to the north border of the Mesozoic is a distance of 6400 feet the average dip 30 calculated thickness of Mesozoic at Schultz's 3000 feet nevertheless Mr. Schultz's water well struck the limestone floor beneath the Mesozoic at less than 200 feet.
The supposed outlying patch of limestone left bare by the denudation of the thin covering of red shale ibid. p. 205 appears however to be a calcareous conglomerate bed in the Triassic itself.
In the extensive Bojertown iron mines the limestones bearing the ore were everywhere found to underlie the Triassic beds. Continuing southwestward twelve miles there is again evidence of the existence of a local fault as pointed out by the writer elsewherebut in a trolley cut about a mile from the Schuylkill River an apparent overlap is poorly exposed and then at the Big Dam northwest of Neversink Station is the erosion contact described by Rogers. Here a fissure in the limestone into which pebbles of the conglomerate had been washed was formerly exposed.
At present the quarry shows conglomerate composed of but slightly rounded limestone pebbles cemented together by a minimum quantity of red mud resting on a somewhat brecciated limestone into the cracks of which more or less red mud has percolated so that it requires very close examination to make out the real contact.
In the old iron mine on Fritz's Island around the bend in the river and at the Wheatfield mine seven miles to the west orebearing limestone and sandstone were found leneath the Triassic beds as at Boyertown.i At the great Cornwall iron mine in Lebanon County twenty miles further west Triassic conglomerate overlies on the south  Geology of the South Mountain Belt of Berks County Second Penna.
Geol.
Surv.
RepL D3 II pt.
1 p. 200 1883.
'Spencer op.
cit. pp.
4360.
 Contributions to the Mineralogy of the Newark Group in Pennsylyania Trans.
Wagner Free Inst.
Science Phila. VII pp.
123 1910.
3 Geology of Pennsylvania. II p. 681 and fig.
568 1858. loD'Inyilhers op.
cit. pp.
336 337 and 346. side the Paleozoic strata bearing the ore and since diamond drilling has shown that ore extends well under this cover the Middle Hill workings are now being extended in that direction.
Spencersdiscussed the probability of there having been progressive overlap here and published several crosssections exhibiting this relation.
The last exposure of this contact found by the writer is twenty miles west of Cornwall on the west bank of the Susquehanna River one and a half miles below the town of New Cumberland.
Here in the Northern Central Railroad cut the Triassic conglomerate is in solid contact with the limestone and specimens shoving a ''welding of the two were secured.
The plane of contact here slopes more steeply than usual perhaps 45 to the south while the conglomerate beds dip about 20 northward.
It thus appears that all along the line through Pennsylvania the highest beds of the Triassic usually coarsegrained conglomerates overlap upon the older rocks  limestones quartzites and gneisses.
The few faults which can be recognized are too limited in extent to have any bearing on the question as to the position of the beds as a whole.
That the several formations of the Triassic were not deposited regularly and evenly on top of one another can also be inferred from the observed lack of anything like metamorphism  cementation induration crystallization  of the lowermost Stockton beds.
Had these ever been buried beneath the whole 20000 feet of the two overlying formations the temperature would necessarily have been raised so high and opportunities for chemical action have become so great that some changes would surely have been produced.
Again the Stockton is known to thin rapidly northward.
Its thickness along the southern edge of the belt toward the eastern end is as great as 5500 feet but where brought to the surface by the Buckingham Mountain fault the Flemington fault of New Jersey ten miles further north it is only about 2000 feet.
It is therefore believed that in the portion of the Triassic basin crossing eastern Pennsylvania the locus of deposition of the beds was gradually shifted northward during the course of the period so that the successive formations overlapped more and more to the north the basin being deepened by downwarping rather than by faulting as brought out by Section B.
11 Lesley and D'Invilliers Ann.
Rept.
Second Penna.
Geol.
Sun 1885 pp.
491570.
'Op.
cit. pp.
20 21 pi.
III.
It has several times been mentioned above that the uppermost beds of the Triassic are in general conglomerates.
But as this term may cover rocks of quite a variety of characters and origins it seems worth while to describe them more definitelj'.
For this purpose those developed along the northern boundary for twentj miles westward from the Delaware River have been selected since they are believed to be typical of the formation and since by reason of their accessibility it has been found possible to study them in the greatest detail.
The most striking feature of the Triassic area in northern Bucks and southern Northampton and Lehigh Counties is the occurrence of rather prominent hills the highest attaining 980 feet above tide or 500 feet above the usual level of the redshale region and exceeding those formed by both the diabase and gneiss usually regarded as the.
most resistant of rocks in the immediate vicinity.
On these hills in spite of deep dissection and frequent steep slopes very few exposures of rock in place are found although the soil is strewn with boulders and pebbles of pinkstained quartzite.
This material has been previously interpreted in three ways as Cambrian Chickies or Hardyston Ordovician Shawangunk or Green Pond and metamorphosed Triassic.
The present view of the matter is that while the quartzite of the pebbles is actually of the second of these ages the peblles themselves are not of recent origin but have weathered out of a conglomerate belonging to the ordinary unmetamorphosed Triassic series.
This conclusion has been reached as follows At a few places along the hill slopes and at two localities where prospecting for copper has been carried on the rock can be seen in pl'ace.
It consists of a soft red mud ground mass in which are imbedded pebbles of all sizes up to two feet in diameter but mostly around three inches rudely but evidently assorted and stratified.
The largest and most thoroughly rounded of these consist of a gray to pink quartzite often in itself conglomeratic  containing white quartz grains up to half an inch across and occasional flakes of graj slate.
These quartzite pebbles are usually stained deep red by a film of hematite which penetrates the cracks and spreads out around them in rounded imperfectly dendritic patches.
At the copper prospects above mentioned thejalso show abundant malachite stains which in at least one specimen seemed to be derived by weathering of a copper sulfide originally imbedded in the quartzite itself but now leached out leaving tiny holes.
Lithologically this quartzite is in every way identical with the Shawangunk which forms Blue Mountain twenty miles away to the north and with the Green Pond conglomerate of the same age occurring in the highlands of northern New Jersey.
Not only does this similarity cover the general features of the rock but it extends down to such small details as the extent of the silicification visible under the microscope the inclusion of the gray slate flakes and the occasional presence of copper sulfides chalcocite
in minute disseminated grains just as occurs at the Pahaquarry copper mine on Blue Mountain eight miles northeast of the Delaware Water Gap.
And since there is no other formation anywhere in the region of at all similar lithologic character there would seem to be no reasonable doubt as to the correctness of this interpretation.
In addition to these quartzite pebbles limestone fragments are often present in the conglomerates locally forming almost the only constituent of the rock.
These are usually less well rounded than the quartzite and in fact are often so angular that the rock should be termed a breccia.
When exposed to atmospheric agencies they have usually weathered out leaving a peculiarlooking cellular rock.
Nothing has been observed to indicate that these limestone pebbles are of different type from the Paleozoic Cambrian and Lower Ordovician strata exposed in the valleys to the north in fact streaks of the black chert so frequently present in these beds have been noted in some of the pebbles.
Along with the limestone pebbles are also abundant flakes of a greenish schistose material which resembles the sericite partings developed in the limestones in many places occasional beds of the conglomerate being made up of nothing but overlapping chips of this schist.
Again in some places gneiss pebbles are present in considerable numbers several of the types now exposed in the hills to the north being represented.
These like the limestone fragments are only imperfectly rounded and they have also weathered on the surface to some extent although perfectly fresh when seen in recent artificial exposures as along the trolley line south of Monroe on the Delaware River.
On descending the hill slopes it is found that the pebbles in the soil become gradually fewer in number and finally give way to frostshattered shale fragments as roughly indicated on the map by the small circles.
There is practically no decrease in the sizes of the pebbles going outward from the centers of the hills and absolutely nothing like a gradation from the conglomerates through finer and finer sandstones to the ordinary Brunswick shales.
The same red sandy mud makes up the bulk of both rocks the pebbles having simply been dropped into it while still soft.
Similar relations appear in four distinct areas all of the same general type although the shape of outcrop is modified by diabase intrusions and local variations in the dip of the usually practically horizontal beds.
That these conglomerates have been deposited chiefly under water is shown by the stratification and assorting of the pebbles rough though it may be and by the occurrence of interbedded thin laminated shales which show such features as ripple marks and rill marks.
That the water was fresh is indicated by the absence of marine fossils and perhaps by the red color of the mud.
The source mode of transportation and of deposition of the pebbles remain to be considered.
Three possibilities at once suggest themselves we may be dealing with either talus broken from cliffs by wave or frost action alluvial fans or glacial moraines.
The first view that the pebbles are talus blocks was accepted by Dr. KiimmeP in the New Jersey area.
This conclusion is however quite inapplicable in the present localities for it is very evident that the nature of the pebbles bears in general no relation to the character of the rock against which the conglomerate lies.
Dr. Kiimmel had observed the same thing and explained it as due to faulting but as shown above this does not occur in the present region.
Gneiss pebbles are found most abundantly at Momoe where the floor is limestone and limestone pebbles west of Coopersburg where the underlying rock is gneiss.
Indeed there is now no outcrop of Shawangunk quartzite such as forms the majority of the pebbles within twenty miles although of course it may have extended somewhat farther south in Triassic times.
Further the fact that the limestone s less rounded than the much harder quartzite is just the opposite of what would be observed in talus heaps rounded by wave action but can be explained according to the principle that the degree of rounding increases with the distance of transportation for the limestone rocks from which the pebbles may have been derived outcrop nearly everywhere within a mile or two of the edge of the basin.
The application of the criteria for the recognition of alluvial Ann.
Rept.
State Geologist of N. J. 1897 pp.
5258. fan deposits as recently summed up by Trowbridge to the present occurrences shows the improbability of their having had such an origin the majority of the pebbles are too well rounded and assorted.
In fact the stratification is quite definite and the pebbles have apparently been transported and deposited by some agent which did not disturb the soft red mud now forming the cement of the conglomerate.
The possible glacialmoraine origin of similar Triassic conglomerate deposits in other regions has been advanced in some form or other by various writers.
W. M. Fontaine discussed it elaborately and found no difficulty in reconciling the supposed deposition of the bulk of the strata in a ''mild equable and moist climate in the lovilands with the collection of unUmited supplies of snow and ''its discharge in the form of glaciers on the lofty mountain belt of the Appalachians.
And many others had come to agree vith this view.
I. C. Russell  after reviewing the evidence stated that  the absence of glacial records seems to warrant the conclusion that glaciers did not enter the basins in which the Newark rocks were deposited.
It does not follow however that the Appalachians were not occupied by local glaciers.
The suggestion that those mountains were higher in the Newark period than now and were covered with perennial snow while the adjacent lowlands enjoyed a mild climate seems an attractive and very possible hypothesis but definite evidence as to its verity has not been obtained.
The proof that the climate of the Atlantic slope during the Newark period resembled that of Italy at the present day with glaciers on the neighboring mountains must be looked for in the drainage and sculpturing of the mountains and the character and distribution of the debris washed from them.
A period of long decay preceding the birth of the Appalachian glaciers would have prepared land to furnish abundant debris when the faciUties for transportation were augmented.
In late years the idea that the red color of sediments is connected with their deposition in more or less arid climates has gradually been gaining ground and as other evidence appeared to favor  The Terrestrial Deposits of Owens Valley California Jour.
Geol. XIX 706747 1911.
' Notes on the Mesozoic strata of Virginia Amer.
Jour.
Sci. 3 XVII pp.
236 237 1879.
1 Correlation papers  The Newark System Bull.
U. S. Geol.
Surv.
No.
85 pp.
5053 1892. such a view of the orighi of the bulk of the Triassic Russell's ''attractive and very possible hypothesis of glaciation of the Appalachian Mountains in that period has been practically forgotten.
It is the writer's belief however that the character and distribution of the debris forming the conglomerate beds under discussion constitutes a verj good argument for its revival.
That the pebbles and boulders were carried down into the Triassic basin along certain definite channels is clearly indicated by the shapes and positions of the conglomerate masses.
Something in fact can be made out as to the possible routes along which they came.
In this region at present the position of streams is controlled to a certain extent by fault or joint systems.
Since most of these structural features are however evidently preTriassic it is reasonable to suppose that similar depressions existed there then and became at times river channels.
It can readily be seen on the map that stream routes marked by heavj dotted lines do actually strike the edge of the Triassic belt at or near the centers of the several conglomerate masses although of course changes of geography since that period have altered the actual direction of the drainage and superficial features.
But the boulders in the conglomerates are too large to have been carried by any streams flowing in these channels at the present day and indeed as shown above torrential alluvialfan origin is improbable.
Russell's arguments against a direct glacial origin being also valid as far as all later observations go apparently only one possible mode of formation remains  transportation by floating ice.
Evidence favoring this view has been unexpectedly obtained in the course of field work to the southwest of HellertowTi.
The Saucon Valley a broad limestone plain which lies to the north of the Triassic highland here contains extensive deposits of what is regarded as extramorainic drift.
It is believed that in late Quaternary glacial times the Lehigh River was temporarily dammed back and formed a lake locally called Lake Packer  whose surface reached a height of 450 feet above tide and which therefore spread over much of Saucon Valley.
Floating ice breaking off from the front of the great glacier which extended on the Lehigh only to White Haven over fifty miles north of the present region came down stream and some of it was carried by currents around into the Saucon Valley Bay.
As this ice gradually melted numerous well1Cf.
Lull R. S. The Life of the Connecticut Trias Amer.
Jour.
ScL 4 XXXIII pp.
397422 1912 and the writer Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1912 pp.
371 372. rounded pebbles and boulders of various Paleozoic rocks chiefly quartzites derived from the mountains to the north were deposited in a rudely stratified sheet over the valley floor in sufficient quantity to almost completely cover the underlying limestone rock. At the south side of the valley such drift extends just up to the Triassic contact and many of the drift boulders are essentially similar in size shape and degree of rounding to those weathered from the Triassic conglomerate and in fact can only be distinguished by the color which is yellow or brown instead of red.
If there were in Triassic times glaciers in the mountains they must have formed terminal moraines and drift from these would naturally be occasionally transported on cakes of ice do'vTi the streams issuing from the glaciers and be dropped whenever this ice melted.
Some could not fail to be carried out into the shallow lakes or ponds in which the Triassic red muds were being deposited and would then be dropped into this mud without disturbing its stratification as we actually find to be the case.
Again as the distance out from the margin of the basin to which the pebbles would be carried have nothing to do with their size but only with the size of the ice blocks and the resulting rate of melting they should simply become fewer in numbers rather than less in size toward the center of the basin.
As noted above this is exactly what does occur.
It is not intended to imply that all of the materials of these conglomerates had this origin.
The smaller subangular limestone and gneiss pebbles and the green shaleflakes were no doubt carried largely by direct stream action.
But the writer feels convinced that the features shown by the great mass of quartzite boulders constitute a good indication of the correctness of Fontaine's and Russell's theory that glaciers existed in the Appalachian Mountains during late Triassic times.
Summary.
The shape of outcrop and structure of the three subdivisions of the Pennsylvania Triassic implies either a profound fault on the north side of the basin or progressive overlap in that direction on an extensive scale.
The latter view is shown to be the most satisfactory one in this region.
The conglomerates developed along  Williams E. H. Extramorainic drift between the Delaware and the Schuylkill Bull.
Geol.
Soc.
Amer. V 281296 1894. the north border are found to show features which suggest the transportation of a considerable part of their materials by ice floating in streams arising from the melting of glaciers in the Appalachian Mountains to the north.
Explanation of Plate III.
Map of the north border of the Triassic in Bucks Northampton and Lehigh Counties Pennsylvania showing distribution of the border conglomerates and hypothetical stream channels of Triassic times.
ZOOLOGICAL GARDENS.
BY FRED.
D. WEIDMAN M.D.
The first part of this communication deals with certain statistics regarding all the parasitic worms found in the Gardens the second nth separate species which have been of economic scientific or passing interest.
Part I.
The statistics which follow have been compiled from autopsy protocols at the Laboratory of Comparative Pathology of the Philadelphia Zoological Gardens.
The autopsies number 2807 and extend from November 25 1901 to January 1 1913.
They were performed with care especially those on the larger animals.
All mammalia and aves dying were examined.
Only a few of the reptilia received attention.
The organs were not extensively dissected or examined microscopically.
They were closely scrutinized grossly and if occasion warranted microscopical sections were made.
For these reasons many of the smallest parasites have been missed and this may explain the small number of flukes appearing in our tables.
The table opposite shows roughly an average of excluding 19011905 when the parasites were not especially searched for 45 infestations per year.
In 1910 there was a rise due to cestodes in birds and again a rise in 1911 which we trace across to nematodes again in birds.
Referring to the General Parasitological Table II nematode column we find that of the aves it is the Psittaci and Passeres which are responsible for the latter rise.
Our detailed Psittaci records now lead us to a certain worm Spiroptera incerta.
This worm was apprehended however long before these tables were compiled.
This table led us to investigate the Passeres which show 33 nematodes.
A coiled Filaria in the serosa of the proventricle was revealed.
We propose to investigate it in the near future It is probably Filaria pnngens.
Table I is more of local than general scientific value.
It shows the incidence of parasites by years and enables us to trace to its source an' special increase of infestation that may occur in the Gardens.
1913.
127 General Parasitological Table I.
Showing Infestation by All Parasites by Years.
Nematodes.
Acanthocephalus.
CesTremaUnclasI rp   todes.
todes.

sified.
'19011904 Mammalia.. Reptilia Aves Total 1905 Mammalia.. Reptilia Aves Total 1906 Mammalia.. Reptilia Aves Total 1907 Mammalia.. Reptilia Aves Total 1908 Mammalia.. Reptilia Aves Total 1909 Mammalia.. Reptilia Aves Total 1910 Mammalia.. Reptilia Aves Total 1911 Mammalia... Reptilia Aves Total 1912 Mammalia... Reptilia Aves Total 11 2 9  22 12 1 21  .34 4 3 26 3.3 34 39 14  32 12 2 .50  64 37 301 12 10 23 93  2 12 9 1 15  1 23 52 42 46 46 47  57 81 53 3a 435 1 The years referred to are tte fiscal years of the Gardens ending March 1 except the last 1912 which we have made to end on January 1 1913.
128 March General Parasitological Table II.
Showing Avian Orders Affected.
Aves.
Nematodes.
Acanthocephalus.
Trematodes.
Cestodes.
Unclassified.
Total.
Alectorides Columbse PicariEe Gavise Steganopodes... Fulicarise Strio'es 1 6 6 1 1 1 114 16 6  6 1 33 2 2 '5 2 2 ''2 2 3 5 '25 3 1 2 2 1 1 .... 1 8 9 1 1 6 2 Psittaci Herodiones Galli 118 25 10 8 6 Limicolse Passeres 1 65 Total 193 2 7 41 18 261 General Parasitological Table III.
Showing Mammalian Orders Affected.
Mammalia.
Nematodes.
Acanthocephalus Trematodes.
Cestodes.
Unclassified.
Total.
Primates Lemures 18 3 1 3 21 11 8 4 2 2 3 1 23 6 Carnivora Ungulata 41 8 6 21 1 65 21 17 Marsupialia Edentata Hyraces i 3 1 1 i 1 25 2 1 Total 9S 1 49 12 160 Table III shows that of mammals the Carnivora are by far the most heavily infested order.
Primates Ungulata and Marsupialia are about even for second place.
General Parasitological Table IV.
Showing Reptilia Affected.
Nematodes.
Acanthocephalus Trematodes.
Cestodes.
Unclassified.
Total.
Reptilia 10 1 3 14 The data on reptiles are not of value on account of the small numbers but are included here for the sake of record.
1913.1 129 General Parasitological Table Summary.
V. 1 Nematodes.
AcanthoTremacephahis.
todes.
Ges.
todes.
Unclassified.
Total.
Mammalia Aves Reptilia ..
 98 ... 193 10 1 49 41 12 18 160 261 14 Totals........ ...1 301 2 9 93 30 435 The summary shows as to the relative numbers of worms that nematodes are far the commonest then come the cestodes flukes and Acanthocephali in order named.
This is the usual order given in textbooks.
It seems however that our summary shows too great a disproportion between the nematodes and cestodes due doubtless to the endemic of nematode Spiroptera in the parrots.
Excluding those a ratio of two nematodes to one cestode is obtained.
This would appear to express about the proper relationship which now holds good in both birds and mammals.
Tables have also been made shoeing the location of the parasites in the different mammalian and avian orders and in reptiles as follows  General Parasitological Table VI.
Site of Infestation.
Aves.
4 s a J3 o 1 c3 i 1 a bb c 1 c 3 a 1 1 a W CL c o o h hJ  uC Ph m Alectorides ' .... Columbffi j I.... PicariJB .... Gavise L. Steganopodes ' 1 Fulicarise Striges Psittaci 109 Herodiones Galli Anseres Accipitres LimicoljE 2 2 2 1 9 1 1 2 9 10 9 1 1 6 2 118 27 10 8 7 1 Totals 1 1 l49 6 63 1 
1 1 14 13 267 Six duplications i.e. more than one parasite found in different organs of same bird.
9 General Parasitological Table VII March Mammalia.
6 i 
02 i s 2 1 1 i 1 1 1 a 1 a 1 s 1 i 5 1 1 4 Primates 5 3 47 8 11 6 2 3 I 2 2 1 2 3 2 1 1 10 1 1 1 94 Lemures 1 3 Carnivora 6 1 1 ' 1 fiS Ungulata Rodentia 2 1 1 1 i 7 3 1 1 1 '' 17 Marsupialia 18 1 1 1.. 7 Edentata .
j 9 Hyraces 1 
1 1 1 1 1 Ill Totals 82 33 9 17 4 5 1 2 1 21jl ..
1 1 1 172 Twelve duplications.
General Parasitological Table VIII.
Intestine.
Stomach Lungs.
Cloaca.
Peritoneum.
Total.
Reptilia 8 2 3 1 1 15 One duplication.
General Parasitological Table IX.
Summary of Location of Parasites.
 4 a .a r 1 a 1 1  i 1 i 1 1 .1 1 1  a 1 o 82 K 33 9 2 21 1 1 1 1 5 1 9 3 Reptilia Aves 1 63 149 1 9 14 1 1 5 1 2 1 1  Totals 153 35 149 1 2 9 36 ' 1 1 1 10 1 14 1 2 Number of duplications 19.
1913.
131 Not given.
Pericardium.
Gizzard.
Blood.
Skin.
Muscles.
Pancreas.
Total.
Mammalia .. Reptilia Aves 1 2 i ' 4 . 6  13 i 7 2 172 15 267 Totals 1 2 6 17 1 7 2 454 111 the summary Table IX the accepted predommance of intestinal parasites is shown.
The next most frequently affected organ is the stomach.
The peritoneum comes next due to the presence of Filarise which also account for the fourth position of the blood.
Part II.
Spiroptera incerta Smith.
This worm has been encountered 119 times as follows Table X. Parrots Blueheaded Pigeons Ashyheaded Barbet Banded Toucan .
Green glossy Starling Sulphurbreasted Toucan Barbary Turtle Dove Whitecrowned Pigeon Whitethroated uail Transvaal Barbet Himalayan Jay... Doublestriped Thicknce Natal Francolin..
Larger hill Mynah 102 3 1 2 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 119 Since the greatest number occurred in parrots our attention has been especially called to those birds.
In fact our work on this parasite of parrots has constituted bj far the greatest part of our studies in metazoan parasitology at the Gardens.
The appended table shows the exact findings since March 1 1906 132 Iarch Spiroptera Table XL Deaths from Spiroptera among Psittaci.
Year ending.
Verminous.
Not verminous.
Total Per cent.

Total number from all dying with of Psittaci in causes.
I worms i collection.
Mar.
1 1906 3 Mar.
1 1907 16 Mar.
1 1908 17 Mar.
1 1909 20 Mar.
1 1910 10 Mar.
1 1911 12 Mar.
1 1912 24 Jan. 1 1913 11 Total 113 45 48 6 29 45 .
6 36 53 32 16 36 56 30 40 25 29 41 29 57 81 30 26 37 36 Not obtainable 132 139 137 268 381 30 408 As will be noted an average of 30 per cent of all parrots coming to autopsy harbored these worms.
Is it the parasite which has caused death or is this simply an example of commensalism which is so common in the lower animals
We find consulting our Table XI that the percentage of birds dying with worms is fairly constant except for the year ending 1909 and excluding 1906 when the cases were beginning to be recognized.
This wouM indicate at first sight that the verminous cases were only incidents that 30 per cent of our birds had harmless worms which appeared at autopsy when the bird died from intercurrent disease.
To throw further light on the subject a curve was prepared showing deaths of Psittaci by months.
Again there is a rough parallellism between the curves of verminous and nonverminous birds.
The charts then would exculpate the parasite.
Now let us consider the opposed evidence.
It will be brought out later that we have examined every parrot in the parrothouse and found 14 per cent of our living parrots verminous.
What does this mean
Correlatingthis finding with our statistics we have established two facts 1 14 per cent of our living parrots are verminous.
2 30 per cent of all parrots dying in a year are found verminous.
See Spiroptera Table XI.
A greater percentage in fact proportionally twice as many of our verminous birds die as do nonverminous.
To consider a specific instance suppose our birdhouse contain 140 live parrots  A.
From 1 above 14 per cent of our living parrots would be verminous 20 birds.
B.
86 per cent of our living parrots would be nonverminous 120 birds.
Suppose at the end of the year there had been 50 deaths average for 7 years.
C. From 2 above 30 per cent would be verminous 15 birds.
D. Then 70 per cent would be nonverminous 35 birds.
From A and C  Out of 20 living verminous birds 15 deaths resulted 75 per cent.
From B and D  Out of 120 living nonverminous birds 35 deaths resulted 30 per cent.
The mortality is more than twice as great for living verminous parrots than for nonverminous.
This is one point against the innocence of Spiroptera incerta.
Our second witness is the autopsy picture.
The Parasite.
 It has been described in detail by Dr. Allen J. Smith as a new species in his Sytwpsis of Studies in Metazoan Parasitology.
Briefly the mature female averages 14 mm.
in length by 0.6 mm.
in diameter.
It is rigid of a dead or yellowwhite color.
The male is distinctly smaller.
They vary in numbers from two to a hundred or more.
The usual number is twenty or thirty.
They may be found in a ball of mucus in the lumen of the proventricle or burrowing into the mucosa.
The smallest larval forms are often found under the thick chitinous lining of the gizzard.
The Host. In severe infestations the bird is emaciated.
It sometimes emits a wheezing sound not pneumonia or passes mucus from mouth or nostril.
Often the droppings have been abnormally copious and when mucus is admixed as it often is infestation has been foretold.
The Lesion.
 Even where there are but a few worms 46 in the proventricle the swelling is prominent.
Diagnosis can be made as soon as the body cavity is opened.
On opening the organ the mucosa is found necrotic and overlaid by mucus.
The worms if pulled out by forceps and relaid on the mucus promptly burrow into it and disappear.
Where the worms are numerous the viscus is enormously distended even exceeding the gizzard in size.
The heart is pushed far to the right the gizzard placed so low as to press on the cloaca.
In one case a perforation had occurred and seeds and worms were found in the air sacs.
On section the mucosa is necrotic destroyed.
The wall of the viscus may be so thin as to be translucent.
The lumen is occluded by the necrotic and mucoid debris.
Microscopically the mucosa is in part or wholly necrotic and the parasite may be found burrowing even close to the muscularis.
The only reactive inflammation seen is around the nerves where a roundcell infiltration sometimes occurs.
Necrogenesis.
 From the clinical and postmortem findings it would seem that a variety of agencies are operative in causing death.
Where the parasites are in small numbers in a large bird they are probably not the cause of death.
Occlusion of the proventricular lumen probably plays a minor part by retarding food ingestion.
Much more important is the destruction of the mucosa of this for birds important digestive organ.
In fact it has been called the glandular stomach in contradistinction to the muscular stomach or gizzard.
This probably accounts for the emaciation seen clinically.
Theoretically this worm might elaborate a toxic material as does the fish tapeworm of man which may act as an irritant on important vital organs.
Such irritation was seen in a chronic form around nerves in one of our microscopic sections.
Displacements of organs noted above heart by pressure gizzard by weight of superjacent pro ventricle could easily contribute to the end.
It is our belief at present that only a part of the cases listed as verminous died as a result of spiropteriasis  that the cases showing a few worms and not much tissue destruction died from intercurrent diseases but that others those so greatly emaciated with occluded lumina pressure upon the heart and destruction of mucosa undoubtedly diqd as a result of the presence of these worms.
Our autopsy shows alterations of important structures extensive enough and serious enough to incriminate the parasites in spite of the evidence of our tables and charts.
This fact considered with Spiroptera Table XI shows the worm to be of economic importance.
In studying this endemic we have worked along three lines I.
To devise a practical method whereby infested birds might be discovered and isolated.
II.
To determine the life history of the worm.
This is most important from a hygienic and prophylactic standpoint.
III.
To discover a therapeutic agent.
Diagnosis.
We feel that we have been successful in our first task.
The external appearances were never sufficiently characteristic to lead to exact diagnosis.
Some birds even though passing enormous numbers of ova were in good feather.
Others showed symptoms like any sick bird  feathers ruffled head hung down eyes closed.
Several cases however showed suggestive symptoms.
They extended the neck as though attempting to vomit.
A macaw passed a frothy material from the mouth.
Another bird which did not have pneumonia emitted a wheezing sound.
Some of the birds produced droppings in larger quantity than their mates and where these contained mucus as they often do we have foretold infestation.
But these signs were so inconstant that laboratory chagnosis became necessary.
The only avenues to diagnosis would seem to be the blood urine droppings stomach contents and temperature.
Some time has been spent investigating the blood but so many technical difficulties arose and so much time was required that this means was abandoned.
Experiments were also performed toward the production of emesis and the recovery of the worms in the vomitus.
Preliminary experiments on pigeons were successful.
Onetenth of a grain of apomorphine hypodermically caused regurgitation of food.
This was probably only from the crop as no stones accompanied the grain.
An amazon received onefifth of a grain of apomorphine hypodermically.
Excited talking laughter and some dizziness resulted but no emesis.
An attempt was then made to draw out the proventricular contents mechanically.
This failed as a small catheter used as a stomachtube could be introduced only as far as the crop as demonstrated upon a dead parrot.
The urine is evidently useless for diagnosis when we consider the anatomy of the avian excretory apparatus.
Temperature determinations would require manipulations which the smaller birds could not stand.
The droppings remain as our sole means of diagnosis.
The parasitic ova are not easily found.
The excreta of birds contain more waste than human dejecta where everything is generally in a finely granular condition.
The droppings are laden with such quantities of vegetable cells colored by chlorophyl that they quite hide the ova unless the latter are in such great numbers as not to be lost by high dilutions.
Efforts to dissolve this foreign matter have been ineffectual.
It was not digested by pancreatin overnight in an incubator.
Boiling with antiformin while ineffective broke up the cloddy particles of the droppings clarified the vegetable cells and dissolved the mucus and urates.
Much of the chlorophyl was extracted.
Our routine practice is now to boil droppings for five minutes in 10 per cent potassium hydroxide shake one minute boil three minutes centrifuge for one minute.
Two portions of the sediment are examined for ova under the f lens one from the surface and one from the bottom.
The preparation of each specimen examined in lots of ten requires five minutes.
The examination under the lens requires ten minutes  where no ova are present.
When present they are detected usually in less than one minute although one case was diagnosed only after eight minutes.
The total time for examining one bird is thus fifteen minutes.
A mechanical stage is used and the entire wet specimen is gone over.
With a view to decreasing the amount of debris the birds have been starved for twelve in the case of smaller birds or in the case of larger ones twentyfour hours.
The droppings are collected during the subsequent twelve hours.
That this is a necessary procedure has been shown in subsequent examinations of these same birds where they have not been starved.
In every case the eggs are more concentrated where the bird has leen starved.
This was shown practically in the case of a greencheeked amazon which was passed as not verminous during our preliminary experiments without starving but detected after starving.
Employing the method outhned above for convenience called the improved method every bird in the parrothouse was examined.
The birds were first moved to a separate building.
The parrothouse was then thoroughly fumigated with formaldehyde the cages galvanized and new stands erected.
Birds whose droppings showed ova were isolated in the infirmary.
The others were sent to the parrothouse.
Those removed to the infirmary were again examined by improved method without starving to guard against a possible clerical error by which the specimens might have been mixed.
As a result of the examination of all of our parrots twenty were detected and isolated 14 per cent..
These twenty birds have been used for subsequent experimentation.
Some too have been kept in an open cage exposed to the weather.
For these reasons it is unfair to compare the mortality of these verminous birds with that of the nonverminous at the parrothouse.
If such a comparison could be fairly made it would furnish valuable evidence regarding the criminality of the worm as discussed earlier in this paper.
As these birds died they were posted and in all cases the worms were found in the proventricle.
We have found that our technique is very accurate.
Mexican conure P. Z. G. No.
2599 showed at autopsy a solitary female and a solitary male worm yet it was detected January 31 1912.
Two ova in one slide.
We have been particularly gratified by the subsequent showing of the parrothouse.
Out of 23 birds dying during the last nine months not one has shown worms.
Life History.
 The determination of the life cycle of this worm would be of scientific and prophylactic value.
In only one Spirojjtera sanguinolenta has the life cycle been worked out.
From a hygienic standpoint such a determination would be valuable by ascertaining  1.
Mode of transmission from bird to bird.
2.
Time elapsing between ingestion of ovum and development of sexually mature female.
As long as we have to rely upon finding ova in the droppings we will not be able to detect those birds ath immature worms.
If we can determine the time elapsing between ingestion of egg and maturity of female we will have determined the period of time during which to quarantine new arrivals who while not showing ova in droppings may nevertheless harbor immature worms.
The determination of this point would also give us the intervals at which to reexamine the parrots which have been passed as healthy to the parrot house.
In the absence of this knowledge we run a certain risk.
Future reexaminations will have to be made at quite arbitrary intervals until this developmental period is determined.
Now that each inmate of the parrothouse has been examined and passed any cases developing or dying there with worms will throw new light on the subject.
We have inquired into the life history of the worms bj trying to grow them in artificial media and in experimental birds.
Ova from proventricular slime of a bird dead with Spiroptera were placed in various nutrient media bouillon condensation water of blood serum media tap water and weak alkaline and acid solutions.
These were kept at various temperatures.
One series at room temperature another at 37.5 and a third at the temperature of a bird's body 41.
They were examined daily.
On the sixth day larval worms could be seen issuing from the eggs in tap water at room temperature.
They did not hatch in the acid solution but did appear sporadically in the other solutions at room temperature.
The larvse may be extruded either through the side or the end of the egg.
One wonders how so large a worm could be coiled in such a small shell.
The disappointing factor is the sluggish action of the larva.
It is encased in a wellmarked sheath and while hatching has a languid swaying motion.
When hatched its motion is scarcely more than a quiver.
By the time it has been hatched an hour all motion has ceased.
Beyond this stage we have seen no development.
In 10 to 14 days the worm grows paler faintly granular and disintegrates.
Supposing that some agent was necessary to dissolve the sheath and liberate the larva weak solutions of HCL and sodium bicarbonate were applied but to no avail.
At the suggestion of Dr. Fox an emulsion of parrots' proventricular mucosa was made and applied to the embryos.
There was no development at room or incubator temperature.
The ova in the preceding experiments came from proventricular slime and had not received the action of the bird's intestinal canal.
As soon as a bird was found with great numbers of fecal ova they were washed out and the above experiments repeated in graded acids and alkalis diluted pigeon serum and tap water at room temperature and 41 C. The same results have been secured they hatch best in tap water and serum at room temperature.
The most rapid hatching occurred in a corked vial of tap water at room temperature in which a female had been placed to deposit her eggs for subsequent experiments.
Four days later she was found ruptured her egg tubes protruding and also ruptured.
In them were worms in all stages of hatching.
Animal Experimentation.
Three modes of transmission would seem to be possible 1.
Passage of egg into drinking water and direct entrance of the egg to the host as in the case of the common pinworm Oxyuris vermicularis.
This is the simplest possible cycle.
2.
Passage into drinking water a hatching or perhaps a moult or two and then by drinking or skin perforation reinfestation as seen in the hookworm Necaior americana.
3.
Passage of eggs into water or soil ingestion by an intermediate host with moultings passage from secondary host to water and so back to definitive host as seen among the flukes Faspiola hepaticum.
A fourth mode in which a biting insect might figure as in filariasis is surely ruled out as no embryos have been found in either the peripheral or deep bloods of our verminous birds upon repeated examinations.
The first direct mode seems impossible for the following reasons  A.
In several cases we found infested birds whose cagemates were free.
B.
Several pigeons were fed on eggs or actually had them placed in the crop by rubber tube and syringe.
Killed at intervals of a month proventricle and gizzard showed neither micronor macroscopic involvement.
The last bird killed had been treated three months previously.
Pigeons ought to be susceptible to these worms.
Our records show that a Barbary turtle dove and whitecrowned pigeon died with them in September 1911 and three bluecrowned pigeons were similarly infested in September 1907.
C. In order to get a perfect blood relationship ova and embryos were placed in the crop of newly arrived parrots which had been tested by the improved method and passed.
Another parrot was kept in a cage soiled by a verminous bird.
One bird ched in four weeks vith pneumonia.
It showed no worms.
The others were examined regularly and so far have shown no ova in the stools.
D. Roseate cockatoo No.
166 was placed in a cage with infested roseate cockatoo No.
120 and drinking water allowed to become soiled on August 28 1912.
The birds were separated twelve weeks later and the healthy cockatoo found still healthy as shown by examination of droppings.
In each of the four conditions cited above an opportunity was afforded for the ova to develop by the first mode.
They failed to do so.
In testing out the second mode embryo worms were fed to pigeons and parrots in the same way that eggs were administered in the preceding experiments.
The pigeons were killed at one month intervals and the proventricle and gizzard examined by the microscope.
No infestation was found.
A roseate cockatoo also received the larva.
In twelve months no ova have been found in the droppings upon repeated examinations.
The remaining possibility  entrance by skin penetration  is now being tried.
The third mode which would involve an intermediate nonbiting host does not harmonize with our ideas of nematode transmission.
In only one case that of Spiroptera sanguinolenta of the dog could I find such an example.
The cockroach is the secondary host here and as our aviary harbored many such insects attention was directed to them.
They were fed on cornstarch into which spiroptera ova were mixed.
The roaches were dissected at intervals of two days and though the eggs were found in the cloacal contents no development was ever made out.
The tissues of the body cavity were also teased and examined with negative results.
Our work on the life history of this worm then has been disappointing.
Aside from negative findings we have only established the fact that the eggs may hatch in four days in tap water at room temperature.
Therapeusis.
Theoretically the prospect of a successful therapy is not bright.
The worms live in the soft juicy wall of a canal between the crop and gizzard.
Sometimes they appear in the lumen of this canal in which case they are always surrounded by thick tenacious mucus.
If they are pulled out of this with forceps and are laid on the mucus they at once bore into it.
It protects them from anj passing medicament which is apt to have only a transient effect while on its way from the crop to gizzard.
Those worms which may be partly protruded into the lumen from the wall of the canal can retract and retreat even as far as the serosa as shown in one of our museum specimens.
The smallest worms are found under the thick chitinous lining of the gizzard.
We have used therefore drugs which act on the worms in the lumen thymol by mouth and by way of the blood arsenic hypodermically.
The arsenic used has been in the form of Fowler's solution and atoxyl.
We determined the minimum lethal dose for jigeons and administered a corresponding dose to the verminous parrots. No practical results have come from our efforts at therapy.
Two interesting points however were secured The parrots and pigeons withstood thymol and arsenic in enormous doses compared weight for weight with man.
The droppings of a parrot very heavily infested averaged for five days 182000 eggs per diem.
After a dose of thymol on one occasion it passed 288000 eggs in one single day.
Filaria fasciata n. sp.
In the last three years we have found six examples of filariasis in dead wildcats.
They may be found in the intermuscular fasciae of any of the muscles of the body but especially in those of the thigh muscles.
They number from two to forty.
They are coiled in a most intricate manner in the loose areolar tissue but slip out rather easily upon slight dissection and traction.
The animal is emaciated.
Its blood swarms with embryos.
 Fortieth Amiiinl Report of the Board of Directors of the Zoological Society of Philadelphia 1912.
The female is 2.530 cm.
long filariform 0.5 mm.
in breadth.
The mouth is simple unarmed circular.
There are no papillae or other special features at the cephalic extremity.
Head is continuous with the body.
Caudal extremity straight conical.
Anus subterminaL Vulvar orifice immediately anterior to same.
The male measures 11 cm.
in length.
It closely resembles the female except the tail.
This is strongly curved into three or four spiral turns.
There are two unequal sharp spicules the longer 70'jin length the shorter 45.
There are five pairs of closely placed preanal papillge and one pair of postanal.
The still living embryos measure 280 to 330 microns in length by 4 in breadth.
They have a delicate sheath lashing motion and no progression under cover slip.
Not examined in hanging drop.
Stained specimens exhibit blue spots at irregular intervals not uniformly enough to be established as head or tail spots.
They have been injected hypodermically into kittens with the expected result no transmission after a lapse of five months.
It was at first thought with our imperfect specimens that we were dealing with Filaria striata Molin.
This worm is briefly described in Latin ''Os inerme minimum corpus filiforme longissimum tenuissime transversim striatum extremitas anterior crassior et posterior obtusse extremitas caudalis maris laxe spiraliter torta foveola ante apicem limbo cincta septem papillis permagnis utrinque proedita vagina breve tubulosa penis brevissimus uncinatus extremitas caudalis femine inflexa.
Longit.
mar.
4.5 crassit.
' .
Longit.
fem.
V 3 crassit.
'r With the occurrence of another autopsy many specimens of both sexes were obtained.
It is now certain that we have not here Filaria striata Molin although the size and habitat of the two are the same.
The female might fall under the description given above for striata but the followdng differences are seen in the male.
1.
The tail is strongly coiled.
2.
There are six pairs of papillae.
3.
There are two spicules.
The last difference especially would appear to warrant the naming of a new species.
Tropidooerca contorta n. sp.
Numerous worms were found in' the proventricle of a concavecasqued hornbill Dichocerus hicornis P. Z. G. 2640.
The mucosa was dotted closely by bloodred or blackish points which were usually best seen on the serosa but sometimes best through the mucosa.
The latter was covered with a thick layer of viscid mucus.
The red points numbered perhaps sixty or eighty.
A slight degree of teasing with subsequent pressure over such a point expressed a bloodred translucent body which proved upon microscopical examination to be a worm.
From its subglobular shape it was at first supposed to be a fluke but under the microscope it soon revealed characteristics which placed it among the nematodes.
Thirty or forty of these bloodred worms were expressed and examined before any fixative was applied the material coming to hand very shortly after death.
All of these bloodred worms were found to be females.
The camera lucida drawings Plate IV and measurements are from fresh unfixed specimens which have been slightly flattened out by the weight of the cover slip.
They were examined in normal saline solution.
They showed no motion even upon gentle warming.
The host had been kept at 10 C. for six to eight hours before autopsy and the parasites in situ at the same temperature overnight.
This low temperature acting for twentyfour hours probably explains their quiescence.
No males could be found in the slime which so thickly covered the mucosa.
After the females had been expressed the mucosa was teased into fine shreds and emulsified in normal saline solution.
The sediment was washed in the centrifuge several times and from it eight males were recovered with the aid of the microscope.
It would appear from this that the males occupy the same jDositions that the females do i.e. the proventricular crypts.
The largest specimen of the mature female measures 2.1 mm.
long and 1.9 mm.
broad.
On account of the complexity of its coils it is impossible to measure the length of the body axis.
They are of a bloodred color both grossly and microscopically except the gut tract which contains molecular black material.
This central blackened tract may be seen even grossly upon careful scrutiny.
They are moderately resistant to pressure the trauma of extraction never rupturing the organism.
Ordinary coverglass pressure will rupture them only when the mounting medium normal saline evaporates excessively.
The form of the mature female is extraordinary and occasioned the construction of the genus Tropisuris Diesing later changed to Tropidocerca.
Before flattening the specimens appear as shown by Lieberklihn in the form of a pumpkin.
At one pole the head projects at the other the tail The cuticle is very thick transparent finely transversely striated and of a bloodred color.
It is often projected in expansions as the coils of the worm tighten.
As the head becomes retracted the cuticle forms a collarlike fold.
In some specimens the head and tail have been retracted into the centre of the coil so as to become invisible.
In others they project in a varying degree but never to a greater distance than half the diameter of the worm.
In such cases the projected part of the body measures 100 to 150 mc.
in diameter tapers slightly anteriorly to end suddenly at the oral opening.
Plate IV figs.
4 5 and 8.
The Gut.
 The mouth is unarmed and round.
It is succeeded by a domeshaped buccal space which passes into a long oesophagus.
The oesophagus is marked off from the buccal space by a welldefined ring.
The walls of the oesophagus are very thick and composed of circular and radial muscle fibres.
The oesophagus can be traced deeply into the coils of the worm where it ends by a rounded extremity in the intestine.
The intestine is visible only as a black irregular tract which twists apparently with the coils.
It commences as a large culdesac which receives the oesophagus.
It soon narrows and thereafter is irregular in size.
Anus subterminal.
Plate IV fig.
8.
The posterior extremity of the worm narrows quickly to a sharp point.
Anal opening 450 mc.
from tip.
Vulvar orifice 900 mc.
from tip.
Between the two openings the cuticle is thickened so as to produce a rounded swelling.
Plate IV fig.
6.
The general body cavity including its expansions is filled with closely packed egg tubes suggesting that such expansions are especially designed to accommodate an extraordinarily developed reproductive system.
From the specimens examined in toto the details of this system could not be made out.
The ova are elliptical measure 40 to 45 mc.
in length and 20 to 25 mc.
in width.
Several specimens showed a peculiar unilateral bib attached to the outside of the shell.
Plate IV fig.
7.
Attempts were made to determine a regular arrangement of the coils.
This was very difficult in the case of the fully matured females.
It would seem from their shape that the body expansions grew into the grooves between the coils so as to form a wellrounded mass.
This makes it difficult to determine from which coil the head and tail protrude if they protrude at all and which coils are continuous with each other.
The presence of the cuticular expansions only serves to increase the difficulty.
Immature females were not nearly so puzzling.
It was through a consideration of the coils of different specimens at different stages of development together with reconstructions in wax that the arrangement of the twists was finally made out.
The sex of the youngest female could only be determined by its greater proportionate breadth.
It measured 2.5 mm.
in length and 0.2 mm.
in width.
It was found with the eight males mentioned above.
It was cylindrical colorless and showed no internal structure.
It was not coiled but even at this early stage of development showed by its angulations a disposition to coil.
Plate IV fig3.
The next female studied in point of age was coiled in one plane only.
It measured 1000 mc.
by 1050 mc i.e. only half the size of the mature female.
It was colorless except for the gut which was black.
In this case the body axis could be readily followed.
It was 3.5 mm.
long.
This specimen was fusiform its greatest diameter 450 mc was located at the posterior third of the body where the bulk of the gut and egg tubes were.
The head and a large part of the neck 0.2 mm. are bent sharply dorsally.
The rest of the body then curls tightly ventrally to enclose the head and sharply bent anterior portion.
The tail ends sharply in a single point.
Its tip is recurved.
Egg tubes may be seen in the body cavity but they contain no ova.
Plate IV fig.
9.
The third female measured 9 mm.
in length.
This was ascertained by flattening out a small female and forcibly with needles straightening out the coils.
The body varies in mdth.
Its greatest diameter is 600 mc.
It can now be seen that the body cavity bulges out into expansions at several points.
The approximation of these expansions to each other together with a coincident coiling of the parasite could easily result in the pumpkinshaped organism so commonly described.
The distortion here produced however precludes a positive statement in regard to an habitual and orderly arrangement of these expansions along the bod' axis in the living animal.
The fourth female in order of maturity contained mature ova coiled embryo visible.
It was chosen because it was not tightly coiled.
It was examined in glycerine with a stereoscopic microscope.
No coverglass was used thus eliminating pressure artefact.
A wax model was made by combining drawings and direct observation.
The rigidity of the coils in the unfixed female raised the question whether this was a permanent or a changeable arrangement.
It has been already remarked that even in a very young female where the anlage of the organs was not yet prominent there was a disposition as evidenced by angulations to coil.
This same early disposition is also noted in the halfgrown specimen which was tightl' coiled in one plane.
These facts seemed to argue the coiling as a peculiarity of the species.
To shed further light on the subject reconstructions were made of two mature females after the waxplate method of Bonn and a third partial reconstruction in pasteboard.
In all three the coils were very tight.
In two specimens the head and tail project at opposite sides of the coiled worm.
In a third the head and tail are close together.
In the two complete reconstructions the tail recurves in a direction opposite to the general direction of the coils.
That is tracing the coils in a spiral manner down from the head  either clockwise or contraclockwise as the case may be  we suddenly come to an abrupt bend toward the tail where it bends around in the opposite direction.
This peculiarity is also seen in the halfgrown female mentioned before and it is this reversal which led to the uncertainty in determining the arrangement by direct examination.
As stated above the coils may looking at the specimen head on run clockwise or contraclockwise.
From a consideration of the camera lucida drawings of females at different stages of development along with the wax model and reconstructions the following deductions are made There is a very early embryonic propensity for the worm to coil tightly.
The arrangement of such coils is not constant the coils turning either clockvise or contraclockwise.
The head along with a short anterior portion is always bent more or less sharply dorsally.
The caudal extremity always twists suddenly in a direction reverse to that of the more anterior coils.
As the female becomes mature the remarkable egg content causes a broadening of the worm without a proportionate increase in length.
This causes the mass to appear globular.
The pressure incident to such enormous egg content olliterates any dead spaces between the coils internally or externally and this tends all the more to perfect the globular appearance.
It is presumed in the absence of direct observation of living specimens that the worm may alter its coils and protrude head or tail into the lumen of the proventricle.
It does not seem probable from its bulkiness that the mature female migrates as does Spirop10 tera incerta.
In support of this the microscopical sections do not show necrosis as in spiropteriasis and we do not think that the worms cause serious disease.
The female certainly extracts hemoglobin from the host but does not seem to be wasteful as in uncinariasis.
The cagemate of this bird which is living and also infested appears perfectly healthy and is standing such minor blood loss very well.
The Male.
 From the fact that the specimens were found only after teasing the mucosa not at all in the luminal slime it is presumed that they live in the same situations as the females  in the crypts of the proventricular glands.
This is however hard to prove on account of the small size translucency and relatively small number of males.
Serial sections might or might not from this last circumstance include a male.
The largest male measures 6 mm.
in length.
At its widest part it measures 125 mc.
The body is subcylindrical filiform tapering anteriorly to end rather abruptly in a rounded extremity.
The head is not separable from the body.
It tapers more gracefully posteriorly ending in a tail which is curved strongly toward the cloaca.
Tip of tail is sharp recurved from cloaca after the fashion of the point of a fishhook robbed of its barb.
Cuticle finely striated transversely thin transparent.
Plate IV figs.
1 and 2.
None of the male specimens display the bloodred color so conspicuous in the female.
The oral opening is circular.
It leads to a narrow buccal cavity which abruptly opens into an oesophagus mth thick circularly disposed musculature.
This is succeeded by a straight simple intestine which becomes coiled at its posterior third to end 300 mc.
from the caudal tip.
Cloacal opening surrounded by a pouting prominent cuticular ring.
Spicules unequal.
The shorter measures 150 mc The longer measures 5400 mc.
in length and when retracted.
extends to within 600 mc.
of the anterior extremity.
This spicule is then ninetenths as long as the individual.
One specimen was projected to a distance of 3.0 mm.
This length does not represent the full extent to which it may project as a part of the spicule had been broken off. '
There are two pairs of preanal and two pairs of postanal papillae.
There is no bursa.
Tropidocerca contorta n. sp.
This worm falls easily into the genus Tropisnris Diesing later changed to Tropidocerca.
This genus includes numerous worms which lie in the pro ventricles of birds.
They vary in size in different species from 2 to 7 mm.
in length.
The striking peculiarity of this nematode is the subglobular form and bloodred color of the female.
From the upper pole of the worm a short head projects and from the lower a short tail. I have found the following species described as infesting the hooded crow snipe plover woodcock goose black coot widgeon grosbeak seagull Tropidocerca fississpina Schlatthauber T. paradoxa Diesing T. gijncecophila Molin T. hispinosa Molin T. glohosa V. Linstow T. inermis V. Linstow T. tenuis Lieberkiihn T. certa Leidy.
Upon referring to these species I find that the structure of the mouth and tail parts conforms closely to the worm I have been studying.
There are certain marked differences however which seem sufficient to warrant the naming of a new species 1.
Its tightly coiled form which is not mentioned or figured in any of the other species.
2.
Absence of the four equidistant longitudinal muscular bands which by contracting give the subglobular shape of other Tropidocercse.
3.
The remarkable length of the longer spicule of the male.
4.
Disposition of the male papillae.
Believing the firstnamed difference to be the most striking I have given the nam6 contorta to the species.
Trichocephalus dispar Rudolphi.
From the large intestine of a Rhesus macaque P. Z. G. No.
2744 three mature worms were obtained.
They were very firmly attached to the mucosa and more deeply imbedded than it is customary to find them.
The specimen showed tightly clinging detritus along the anterior attenuated portion which could not be removed with a brush.
The case is of value because this helminthiasis was associated with a purulent peritonitis.
The textbook descriptions do not assign any marked pathogenic properties to this worm.
It would seem hypercritical in this case to argue that such association is a mere coincidence.
Tricocephalus dispar has also been found in Pithecus sntyrus Cercopithecus mona C. potas and C. sahwus Innuus erythryacus I. ecaudatus Cyanocephalus sphinx and C. porcarius and in Mycetes senicidus.
It is mentioned as Tricocephalus lemuris Rud.
and T. palceformis by Raillet.
Its occurrence in 2 Diesing Syst.
Helminth. II p. 207. these animals suggests lines of transmission from one host to another.
Microscopically all three worms were found to be females.
Two were perfect.
Head is missing from the third suggesting that it was firmly attached to the mucosa.
The worms conform in every respect to the accepted generic descriptions of Tricocephalus.
The two perfect specimens measure each 27 mm.
in length.
The posterior portion is 8.5 mm.
long the narrow more attenuated anterior portion including the head 18.5 mm.
This gives a close proportion of one to two.
Measurements were made of ova which lay in the oviduct close to the vulvar opening.
They are2325 mc.
broad and 5255 mc.
long including the button.
It is unfortunate that no males were included in the material since it is by these alone that the species may be surely determined sexual apparatus especially the sheath of the spicule furnishing the differentiating characteristics.
As far as the material goes this might easily be a specimen of Trichocephalus dispar.
The ova are almost identical measuring for the largest specimens 25 by 55 mc.
as against 23 by 53 for T. dispar.
It is true that the specimens are smaller measuring 27 liim.
in length as against 35 mm.
for T. dispar but this is not an uncommon variation for identical species in different hosts.
Witness Ascaris mystax in cats and lions.
Neither does the size of the eggs conform to that given for other species of Trichocephalus crenatus 52 by 56 from pig affinis 
by 65 from horse felis 36 by 72 from cat unguiculatus 31 by 52 from rabbit depressicollis 31 by 80 from dog and fox senrdus 39 by 56 from cat.
Paragonimus westermanii Kerb..
This parasite has been foundin two wildcats Felis rufus.
They lie in cystic dilatations of the bronchi generally in pairs.
An inflammatory zone is present around each focus.
There are not more than half a dozen in each cat.
The finding has been made the subject of a paper  presented before the Philadelphia Pathological Society by Fox Smith Rivas and Weidman in which it is pointed out that this worm has occurred in San Francisco St. Louis Cincinnati in the Appalachians and in the Carolinas whence these cats came.
It is the belief of these writers that the parasite will be found oftener in man if it is carefully looked for and is likely to become more frequent in the United States with the development of our East Indian possessions where its effects are endemic.
3 To be published in a medical journal.
The occurrence of this worm in wildcats on our Atlantic seaboard should be taken note of and remembered if this disease develop here.
Taenia echinococcus v. Siebold.
This material came from a female Bactrian camel which died in labor from a ruptured uterus.
The cysts were most numerous in the liver constituting fully half the bulk of that organ.
The spleen was also extensively involved the lungs less so.
The largest cysts in the liver were sterile showing no scolices.
The specimens were observed alive and we were able to see the scolices retract the rostellum when they were irritated.
One of our microscopic specimens shows a scolex insinuating itself between the lamellae of the wall of the cyst a circumstance not commonly mentioned in textbooks on helminthology.
Taenia marginata Batsch..
The opportunity has presented of seeing this parasite in the most important stages of its complicated life cycle.
We have seen the mature worm ovum and cysticercus.
The strobile or mature worm is the common tapeworm of the dog and wolf.
Its head is provided with a circle of booklets.
Our specimen was obtained from a gray wolf after a vermifuge.
The terminal segments are the mature ones and furnish ova to the stools.
In these eggs six hooks can be seen the precursors of the future rostellum of the mature worm.
These eggs if ingested by herbivorous animals hatch in the intestine and burrow through the liver to the serous cavities of the intermediate host a ruminant where they develop a caudal segment.
This segment is cystic and into it on a long narrow neck the head is invaginated.
This stage is known as the cysticercus stage and the parasite has been named Cysticercus tenuicollis.
We have found these cysts in the Angora goats woolless sheep ringtailed lemurs Mexican deer European roe deer mule deer red deer and fallow deer.
It has been proven experimentally by several investigators that they are pathogenic for young ruminants. The occurrence of so many of the cysts aroused the suspicion that our ruminants might be contracting the disease from the canines opposite whose dens some of the deer are parked.
Two examinations of the dejecta of our canines revealed but three in Neumann's Parasites and Parasitic Diseases of the Domesticated Animals  Fleming 1900. festations out of fifteen animals examined.
One of these was an American gray wolf which was given a vermifuge.
As a result segments were obtained corresponding to those of Tenia marginata.
The wolf has been isolated.
He could easily have been the source of some of the cases.
In others however the animals had been housed in a distant building or were newly arrived.
They were doubtless infested when they arrived.
One of our cases has furnished a monster formation.
The cysts usually consist of a single bladder into which the head is invaginated.
By pressing upon such a cyst the head and long narrow neck may be expressed.
In the monster forms the cyst is invaginated by a second cjst and into this second cyst the head is invaginated so that when pressure is applied two elongated necks emerge the innermost bearing the head.
The formation is discussed by Railliet p. 238.
If these cysts be ingested by a canine the bladder will be destroyed the head becomes fastened to the intestinal wall and gives rise ultimately to the stroliile Tcenia marginata.
The material which forms the basis of this communication has been obtained from the Garden of the Philadelphia Zoological Society from the Laboratory of Comparative Pathology of which it is reported.
During the work I have often had occasion to confer with Dr. Allen J. Smith.
The reconstructions of Tropidocerca contorta were only made possible by his generous tender of apparatus and materials from the Department of Comparative Pathology and Tropical Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania.
I acknowledge with sincere thanks his freely given advice and criticism.
Bibliography CoBBOLD Transactions of the Linnean Society of London II part 8 1883. pp.
357361.
DiESiNn Revis.
d.
Nemat. pp.
673 674.
Syst.
Helminth. II p. 207.
V. Drasche Verhandlung.
d. k. zoojog.
bot.
Gesellsch.
Wien 1883 pp.
114 115.
Leuckart Troeschel's Archiv f.
Naturg. 1860 II p. 135.
Leidy Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1886 p. 308.
LiEBERKtJHN MuUer's Archiv f.
Naturg. 1855 pp.
314355.
V. LiNSTow Troeschel's Archiv fiir Naturg. 1877 pp.
5 6.
Troeschel's Archiv fiir Naturg. 1876 I pp.
.5 6. iirchiv f.
Naturg. 1879 p. 175.
MoLiN Sitzungsbericht d. k. k. Akad.
der Wisse.n. Wien XXXIII p. 298 XL p. 342.
Denkschr.
d. k. Akad.
der Wissen. Wien XIX pp.
297299.
Railliet A. Traits de Zoologie Medicale et Agricole.
2e Edition.
ScHLOTTHAUBER Aiutlicher Bericht deuts.
Naturforscher u. Aerzte Gottingen 1854 p. 129.
 ' Description of Plate IV.
Fig.
1.
 Male Tropidocerca contorta with the longer penis projected.
Fig.
2. Male T. contorta with penis retracted.
The root of the longer penis reaches almost to the head.
Fig.
3.
 Female T. contorla.
This is the youngest female found.
It tends to coil even at this early stage.
Fig.
4.
 Female T. conlorta.
A mature specimen showing the cuticular expansions and subglobular form of this nematode.
Fig.
5.
 Female T. conlorta.
A mature specimen showing the same general features as the preceding.
Fig.
6.
 Tail of female 2 contorla.
Fig.
7.
 Ova of T. contorla.
The unilateral bib is represented on one.
Fig.
8.
 Female T. conlorta.
A mature specimen showing course of oesophagus and intestines.
Fig.
9. Female T. conlorta.
This is a halfgrown specimen.
It is coiled in one plane only and shows the head bent sharply dorsally.
It also shows the constant feature revealed in the wax reconstructions viz. the caudal portion bends sharply in a direction opposite to the general coiling of the worm.
This figure is drawn on a much larger scale than the preceding.
BROWN VARIATIONS IN Lucidella VANATTA NEA SPECIES OF MOLLUSCA.
MAP OP PAHT OP THE TRIASSIC AREA EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA BV LEGEND WHERRY TRIASSIC OF PENNSYLVANIA.
ua of body cavify WEIDMAN METAZOAN PARASITES.
Fig.
3.
 Female T. contorta.
This is the youngest female found.
It tends to coil even at this early stage.
Fig.
4.
 Female T. contorta.
A mature specimen showing the cuticular expansions and subglobular form of this nematode.
Fig.
5.
 Female T. contorta.
A mature specimen showing the same general features as the preceding.
Fig.
6.
 Tail of female T. contorta.
Fig.
7.
 Ova of T. contorta.
The unilateral bib is represented on one.
Fig.
8.
 Female T. contorta.
A mature specimen showing course of oesophagus and intestines.
Fig.
9.
 Female T. contorta.
This is a halfgrown specimen.
It is coiled in one plane only and shows the head bent sharply dorsally.
It also shows the constant feature revealed in the wax reconstructions viz. the caudal portion bends sharply in a direction opposite to the general coiling of the worm.
This figure is drawn on a much larger scale than the preceding.
11 April 15.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M.D. LL.D. in the Chair.
Thirtynine persons present.
The deaths of the following members were announced John S. Billings M.D. March 11 and George McClellan M.D. March 31.
The Publication Committee reported the acceptance of papers under the following titles for publication in the Proceedings Notes on serpents in the Family Colubridae  by Joseph C. Thompson Surg.
U. S. N. March 27.
Amphibians and reptiles from Ecuador Venezuela and Yucatan by Henry W. Fowler March 28.
Notes on the types of some American spiders in European collections by Nathan Banks April 10.
On a collection of birds obtained by the Francis E. Bond Expedition to the Orinoco Delta by Witmer Stone April 14.
A paper entitled Some aboriginal sites in Louisiana and Arkansas by Clarence B. Moore was accepted for publication in the Journal April 14.
John M. Macfarlane M.D. made a communication on the origin and distribution of animals and plants.
No abstract.
 The subject was discussed by Drs.
Calvert and Pilsbry.
The following were ordered to be printed AMPHIBIANS AND REPTILES FROM ECUADOR VENEZUELA AND YUCATAN.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
Several collections of herpetological specimens have recently been acquired by the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Important among them are those forming the basis of this paper.
Several species apparently new are described and figured.
All the figures are drawn to scale the accompanying line signifying ten millimeters.
ECUADOR.
The collection from this country was made on the western slope of the Andes from Guayaquil to Quito during 1911 by Mr. Samuel N. Rhoads.
The fishes were reported by the writer during the same year in these Proceedings.
Since then all the collections Mr. Rhoads made were purchased by the Academy.
In this connection I wish to express thanks to Mr. Rhoads for the appended notes relating to the habits of the various species.
AMPHIBIA.
BUFONID.
Bufo marinus Linnaeus.
Two from Bucay.
Bufo typhonius Linnaeus.
Seven from Bucay.
Found only under stones and logs in woods and banana plantations.
This very variable species ranges over the greater part of South America and in this connection I have examined many examples from th following localities Chapada near Cujaba in Matto Grosso H. H. Smith Upper Punes River Steere  Bahia Cope in Brazil PeruOrton Pebas Orton Ecuador Surinam Bering.
Some examples show the hght vertebral line very conspicuously and in others it is wanting.
Variation in the color of the back is seen from nearly uniform brownish specimens to those greatly blotched.
Some large examples have nearly all the lower regions blackish and they also show the postorbital flange greatly elevated.
The Bucay specimens do not show any parietal ridges extending from the postorbital.
Females from Pebas with eggs have scattered white spots on lower surface of body very pronounced though the postorbital flange is hardly developed.
Bufo cseruleocellatus sp.
nov. PI.
V upper figure.
Body depressed its width about equals that of head.
No bony ridges on head.
which is broadly depressed though not constricted from rest of body.
Snout a httle depressed contour as viewed above little less than right angle.
Eye large though somewhat less than snout in length.
Mouth large rictus extending slightly beyond eye.
Lips thin skin firm and jaw edges trenchant.
No teeth.
Tongue large free for great portion posteriorly and hind edge triangular.
Internal nares moderate.
External nares well separated so that each would fall in external fourth of anterointerorbital width.
Latter depressed or very slightly convex.
Lores a little concave smooth.
Tympanum small vertically elHpsoid and vertical diameter about f horizontal length of eye.
Parotids large well separated from eyes though each equals about If eye lengths.
Along upper side of head from snout tip low fold extends back including upper eyelid externally and outer edge of parotid.
Fold on latter well marked though not extending on costal region.
Skin largely smooth though upper surfaces of limbs and hind pelvic region above with weak tubercles a few of which are less developed on lower surfaces of hind limbs and costal regions.
Parotids and eyebrows more or less granular.
Lower surface of body otherwise smooth .
Limbs all rather slender.
Fingers not webbed second longest and first and third subequally shortest.
Finger tips all with rather welldeveloped tubercles.
Toes webbed rather narrowly at bases and each with somewhat welldeveloped distal tubercles.
Two equal welldeveloped metatarsal tubercles.
Fold of skin along outer tarsal edge.
Color in alcohol dark slatygray above groundcolor nearly uniform marked with a number of scattered more or less rounded dusky to blackish blotches each indistinctly edged with gray or paler tint than general bodycolor to form obscure ocelli.
Upper surfaces of these limbs also marked with similar blotches as three or four on each joint.
Lower surface of body pale gray evidently translucent in life.
Breast and throat all more or less clouded with slaty specks or obscurely spotted with paler or more whitish tints.
Length 23 mm.
Type No.
18069 A. N. S. P. Bucay province of Guayas western Ecuador.
July 1911.
S. N. Rhoads.
Nos.
18068 18070 and 18064 paratypes same data.
Length 16 to 22 mm.
All the specimens were found under stones bark and leaves in woods.
This species is apparently related to Bufo cceruleosiictus Giinther but differs in the colormarkings.
This is hardly due to age as Giinther gives the upper parts of the body as uniform brownishblack and the lower parts dirty graybrown.
Upper eyelids sides of trunk and extremities all show small smooth bluish tubercles.
His example was 3 inches 6 lines.
Boulenger's figure' would show that Giinther's toad cannot be identical.
Bufo glaberrimus Giinther'' differs in the smooth skin and a rosecolored spot in the groin the general color being brownishblack.
Bufo hcematiticus Cope has a different coloration especially a pale spot anterior and beneath the eye.
A poor specimen in the collection from Coban Cope is not fit for comparison.
Cope names var.
lachrymans probably only a color form.
Its length is 1 inch 6 linesThe present species shows some variation in its color markings and in some examples but few dark spots are present on the back.
The latter is also variable as to roughness on its fore part above.
Ccerulea blue ocellus ring with reference to the color markings on the back.
Bufo chanchanensis sp.
nov. PI.
V. lower figure.
Body moderately depressed width about equal to that of head.
Head without bony ridges though broad and depressed not constricted from rest of body.
Snout a little depressed contour as seen from above obtusely triangular slightly more than right angle.
Eye large equal to snout in length.
Mouth large rictus extending trifle beyond eye.
Lips thin firm and jaw edges trenchant.
No teeth.
Tongue large free for last  at least hind edge rounded.
Internal nares large.
External nares well separated falling almost in outer fourth of anterointerorbital width.
Interorbital depressed very slightly concave width little less than twice that of upper eyelid.
Lores smooth.
No tympanum.
Parotids large slightly separated from eyes each equals twice length of eye.
Along upper 1 Proc.
Zool.
Soc London 1859 p. 415.
Western Ecuador.
2 Cat.
Bafr.
Sal.
Brit.
Mus. 1882 p. 291 PL 21 fig.
1.
3 Proc.
Zool.
Soc London 1868 p. 483 PI.
37 fig.
2.
Bogota.
4 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1862 p. 158.
Truando region Colombia.
5L.
c. side of head from snout tip low fold extends back including upper ej'elid externally and outer edge of parotid though not continued beyond.
Skin very rough with more or less enlarged tubercles over upper surface.
Lower surface of body finely granular.
Upper eyelids with large tubercles though parotids largely smooth.
Upper surfaces of limbs tuberculate like back and lower surfaces granulated like bellj Limbs moderately slender.
Third finger longest first and second subequally shortest and none webbed.
Tips of fingers slightly dilated with tubercles.
Toes with rather short webs each ending in small tubercle.
Two equal cuneate metatarsal tubercles.
Fold of skin along outer tarsal edge.
Color in alcohol largely dusky.
Sides and lower surfaces all more or less blackish with abdomen laterally and posteriorly together with lower surfaces of hind limbs marbled or reticulated with paler spots or blotches in rather welldefined contrast.
Side of upper jaw near edge and below eye mottled a little and after eye along middle of side blackish.
Upper surfaces of limbs blotched with blackish edged paler.
Lower surfaces of all limbs with paler markings.
Length 32 mm.
Type No.
18181 A. N. S. P. Camp Chiguancay in Chanchan River valley western Ecuador.
March 1911.
S. N. Rhoads.
Nos.
18182 18185 18193 18195 18198 18202 18203 18205 paratypes same data.
Found in debris in woodland.
Related to Bujo haul Molina as figured by Garnot and Lesson but that species is represented as having short rounded parotids and a very small distinct tympanum.
Variation in color is quite noticeable in the present species though all the specimens are quite dark with pale bands.
Named for the Chanchan Valle3 HYLIDuE.
Hyla rubra Daudin.
Twelve from Hacienda Gorzon to the foot of It.
Pichincha on IMay 16.
Two from the forest above Chimbo 10300 to 12500 feet elevation on April 17.
6 Votj.
CoquiUe II 1831 PI.
7 fig.
6 Chili.
Hyla chimboe sp.
nov. PL VI upper figure.
Body broad well depressed.
Head broad depressed its wddth about equals that of body scarcely constricted.
Snout rather broadlj depressed contour as viewed from above well convex.
Eje moderate about equals snout length.
jMouth large rictus not quite extending back opposite hind edge of eye.
Lips rather thin.
laxillary teeth uniserial fine uniform concealed by lip.
Vomerine teeth in two series each rather short well behind though would fall partly within space between internal nares and series approximated posteriorly.
Tongue oval large last fourth free and hind edge rounded not notched.
Internal nares rather small.
External nares well separated so they fall near outer fourth of anterointerorbital width.
Canthus rostralis not very distinct.
Interorbital slightly concave.
Tympanum rather small vertically ovoid and its length about y eye length.
Skin very finely granular or nearly smooth largely above and entire lower surface more or less coarsely granular though granules on belly largest.
Limbs all slender.
Fingers with slight basal webs.
First finger longer than second dilated basally or vrith adnate pollex third longest and tips of all wdth welldeveloped rounded flattened disks each much less than tympanum.
Toes slender fourth much longest but moderately webbed basally or for less than half their extent and distal disks similar to those of fingers.
No rudimentary hallux or tarsal fold.
Color in alcohol evidently uniform dusky above pale brownish in contrast below.
Belly obscurely mottled with darker and dark mottlings also along edges of hind limbs.
Limbs above like back below like general color of lower surface.
Length 37 mm.
Type No.
18137 A. N. S. P. Mountains above Chimbo 10000 to 10800 feet Ecuador.
April 1911.
S. N. Rhoads.
Nos.
18155 and 18159 paratypes same data.
These 25 mm.
in length.
This species is related to Hyla rubra Daudin which differs in having the toes threefourths webbed snout 1 to If in length of eye a strong fold across the chest and in having the vomerine teeth in two small groups between the internal nares.
Named for Chimbo the type locality.
Hyla riobambae sp.
nov. PI.
VI lower figure.
Body broad well depressed.
Head broad depressed its width greater than that of body very slightly constricted.
Snout broadly depressed its contour as viewed above well convex.
Eye moderate about 1 to snout tip.
Mouth large rictus extending back to hind eye edge.
Lips as rather thin skin.
Maxillary teeth uniserial uniform conic hidden by lip.
Vomerine teeth few conic slightly hooked form nearly continuous series between internal nares so that on level with posterior portion near edge of latter.
Vomerine teeth would form very obtuse angle latter directed posteriorly.
Tongue large orbicular free for about last third and hind edge well notched.
Internal nares large.
External nares rather close so they fall slightly within median third of anterointerorbital width Canthus rostralis distinct not conspicuous.
Interorbital slightly concave.
Tympanum rather small rounded its length 1 in eye. 
Skin largely smooth above granulate below with granules on belly and lower sides much largest.
Groin hind part of pelvis and region around tympanum granulated.
Lower surfaces of fore limbs and femora finely granulated.
Limbs all slender.
Fingers with slight basal webs.
First finger longer than second dilated basally or with adnate pollex third longest and tips of all with welldeveloped rounded flat disks each of which less than size of tympanum.
Toes slender fourth much longest all rather well webbed basally or for half their extent and distal disks similar to those of fingers.
A rudimentary hallux in form of cuneate compressed tubercle at base of first toe on inside though not free and much less in extent than that of first finger.
A slight tarsal fold along inner edge.
Color in alcohol slaty above with two broad more or less complete darker lengthwise bands.
These bands extend from each eye above to hind side of pelvis though broken a little posteriorly.
Tympanum in a similarcolored blotch.
Sides of body slightly more grayish in general color with rather numerous rounded dark spots towards and in groin.
Upper surfaces of limbs like back with irregular darker blotches.
All darker markings have slightly paler edges than bodycolor.
Lower surface of body pale or nearly plain dull brownish.
Hind surfaces of tibia and femora mottled dark slaty and whitish.
Length 48 mm.
Type No.
16161 A.N.
S. P. Rio Bamba Ecuador.
April 1911.
S. N. Rhoads.
No.
16160 paratype same data.
It shows belly specked or spotted with dusky.
These specimens were found in crevices of a stone and cactus wall.
along the roadside.
They were very quiet.
Color in life a variegated grayish.
Hyla labialis Peters from Bogota is perhaps related though it differs in the hardly distinct tympanum being only f of eye.
It is also olivegreen above changing olivegreen on sides with blackishbrown band from snout tip through eye to middle of side lips narrowly edged brown and sides of thighs narrowly reticulated with brown.
Hyla nehulosa Spix from Brazil H. depressiceps Boulenger from Ecuador and H. phceota Cope from Colombia all differ in color as well as having the hind edge of the tongue rounded not notched.
Named for the town of Rio Bamba the type locality.
Hyla quitoe sp.
nov. PI.
VII upper figure.
Body moderately broad somewhat depressed and width apparently slightly less than that of head.
Head broad depressed scarcely constricted.
Snout depressed contour as viewed above rounded or well convex.
Eye moderate about 1 to snout tip.
Mouth large rictus extending back slightly beyond eye.
Lips as rather thin skin.
Maxillary teeth uniserial uniform pointed conic hidden by lip.
Vomerine teeth few larger in two very short series approximated between internal nares opposite their posterior portion.
Contour of vomerine teeth would form very obtuse angle latter directed posteriorly.
Tongue rather large ovoid with bulge posterior hind portion free about j entire length and hind edge entire or convex.
Internal nares moderately large.
External nares moderately separated falling about outer third in anterior interorbital width.
Canthus rostralis not very distinct.
Interorbital slightly depressed.
Tympanum vertically ovoid its vertical diameter about f length of eye.
Skin largely smooth above granular below though granules on belly best defined.
Lower portions of flanks hind limbs below and posteriorly and sides of pelvis also more or less granular.
Region around tympanum apparently smooth.
Lower surfaces of fore limbs smooth.
Limbs all slender.
Fingers with distinct though small or short basal webs.
First finger trifle longer than second and swollen basally as if with rudimentary pollex.
Third finger longest.
Tubercles on fingers apparently little developed.
All fingers and toes with rounded disks moderately developed much smaller than tympanum.
Toes slender fourth much longest about halt webbed basally.
First toe with slight rudimentary dilation as hallux basally.
Metatarsal tubercles not evident.
A slight posterior tarsal fold.
Color in alcohol more or less grayish above slightly tinged with very pale greenish or slaty tint.
Upper lip snout tip and throat grayishwhite.
From behind eye embracing tjmpanum and extending back to groin broad black band edged above and below with whitish or grayish.
On lores this band continued as pale bluishgray streak from eye towards tip of snout.
From canthus rostralis which defined by whitish line a pale bluishgray streak extends back including upper eye cover though separated by rather broad vertebral area to pelvis near its hind end.
These bluish bands edged dusky.
Limbs with general color above like that of back also with obscure dull slaty markings as blotches or otherwise though below pale and uniform light brownish likely translucent in life.
Throat whitish belly becommg tinged pale greenishgray slightly variegated with darker shades of grayish.
Length 20 mm.
Type No.
18238 A. N. S. P. Quito Ecuador.
June 4 1911.
S. N. Rhoads.
Nos.
18234 and 18235 paratypes same data.
This species shows variation in color as the blackish lateral streaks are sometimes broken up into spots or fade paler on groin in which case if former occur they are whitish edged.
Related to Hyla mesophcea Hensel and H. venulosa Laurenti but differing in color.
Named for Quito the type locality.
Hyla quinquefasciata sp.
nov. PL VII lower figure.
Body broad well depressed.
Head broad depressed its width a little less than that of body and neck slightly constricted.
Snout depressed rather triangular as seen from above.
Eye small 1 in snout or equal to space between front eye edge and external nare.
Mouth large extends back opposite hind eye edge.
Lips thin.
Maxillary teeth minute uniform concealed by lip.
Vomerine teeth in two wellseparated patches between posterior portions of internal nares nearly horizontal or scarcely inclined posteriorl3 Tongue broad rounded hind edge notched distinctly and this region free for last fourth.
Internal nares moderate.
External nares well separated placed at third of anterointerorbital width.
Canthus rostralis not very evident.
Interorbital depressed nearly level.
Tympanum rounded Ij in eye.
Skin on back and upper surfaces of limbs smooth with a few scattered small tubercles on back.
Lower surface of head fore limbs and tarsus tibia and fibula smooth.
Belly lower sides and lower femoral regions rather coarsely granular.
A fold of skin across chest.
Limbs all slender.
Fingers not webbed.
First finger a little shorter than second little dilated basally.
Third finger longest and tips of all with broad flattened ellipsoid disks each much less than tympanum.
Toes moderate fourth longest and all well webbed nearly completely so and distal disks similar to those of fingers.
Two small metatarsal tubercles.
Hind edge of tarsus with low fold.
Color in alcohol largely dull or pale brownish above lighter or paler below and of uniform tint.
Back with five lengthwise darker streaks median vertebral as triangle between eyes and extends on front of upper eyelids.
From posterior surfaces of latter each outer streak extends back while outermost includes tympanum and runs well lateral along body.
Upper surfaces of limbs with welldefined crossbands especially on femora and tibia.
Hind surfaces of femora mottled slightly with dusky.
Length 30 mm.
Type No.
18115 A. N. S. P. Mountains above Chinibo 10000 to 10800 feet elevation Ecuador.
April 1911.
S. N. Rhoads.
Only a single example described above.
It is related to Hyla auraria Peters from South America.
The latter differs in the following points.
Vomerine teeth within the limits of the internal nares snout long as eye tympanum vertically oval or twothirds length of eye three outer fingers webbed at base and back without five dark longitudinal streaks.
Quinqiie five fascia streak with reference to the color of the back.
Nototrema marsupiatum Dumeril and Bibron.
One example in poor preservation taken in swampgrass on a trip between Hacienda Gorzon to Mount Pichincha May 11 1911.
In life color light green breast and sides brassyyellow also spot back of eye and joints of limbs bluish.
Length 17 mm.
CYSTIGNATHIDiE.
Hylodes conspicillatus Gunther.
Twenty examples from Bucay taken in July 1911.
They were found in a little springrun which extended down into a grassy tract.
In habits they suggested Acris as they would jump into the water 5wim across the brook and come up again on the opposite side.
The largest is about 45 mm.
long.
Young examples show several whitish spots in a streak due to the fold extending down from the lower edge of tympanum towards shoulder.
Three more example with the same data differ from all the others in the median narrow whitish line extending from the snout tip to the vent.
This line is clearly defined in all three.
Many other of the specimens show a trace of it on the upper lip at the snout tip but soon fading out in the darker color of the rest of the upper surface of the snout.
These examples are thus strikingly like Boulenger's figure of Hylodes unistrigatusJ Two other examples in the collection are likely identical.
One was secured at Hacienda Jalancay near Chinchi in Chimbo April 1911.
The other is young and was taken at the camp near the junction of the Chiguancay and Chanchan Rivers.
Hylodes pagmae sp.
nov. PI.
VIII upper figure.
Body moderately depressed elongately ovoid in contour and width a little less than that of head.
Latter moderately broad a little' depressed scarcely constricted.
Snout slightly depressed contour as viewed above rather triangular tip obtuse.
Eye rather large Ij in snout or equals space between front of eye and nostril.
Mouth large rictus falling about opposite hind edge of eye.
Lips thin.
Maxillary teeth fine uniform uniserial.
Vomerine teeth in two large patches approximated until directed posteriorly behind internal nares.
Tongue apparently ovoid distorted last third free hind edge rounded.
Internal nares moderately large.
External nares fall at third in anterointerorbital space as viewed in front.
Canthus rostralis not very distinct.
Interorbital depressed twice width of upper eyelid.
Tympanum trifle ovoid its vertical diameter 1 in eye.
Skin largely smooth.
Belly lower sides and lower surfaces of femoral regions granular though granules apparently rather obsolete.
Region around tympanum smooth.
Lower surface of fore limbs and throat smooth.
No fold across breast.
Limbs all slender.
Fingers and toes without any webbing and if ever present only slightly developed.
First finger trifle longer than second and slightly swollen basally on inside as if with rudimentary pollex.
Third finger longest.
Tubercles on phalanges not well developed.
All fingers and toes with terminal rounded disks moderate in size or all much smaller than tympanum.
Toes ' Cat.
Bntr.
Sal 1882 p. 217 PI.
14 fig.
4. slender fourth much longest.
First toe with slight basal dilation.
Metatarsal tubercles hardly developed.
Hind edge of tarsus with slight low fold.
Color in alcohol brownish above slightly paler below though latter region also clouded slightly with brownish.
A dark band connects eyes anteriorly and another extends from hind edge of each eye as Wshaped marking.
Behind this several dark blotches on back first with angle directed forward.
Several dark blotches along each side of trunk.
Femoral and tibial joints each with four transverse dark blotches.
Feet and upper surfaces of fore limbs with dark blotches.
All dark markings of upper surface with pale or grayish edges.
A dark bar above each tympanum and another from front of eye to snout tip.
Length 32 mm.
Type No.
18244 A. N. S. P. Pagma Forest in the Chanchan River basin province of Chimborazo Ecuador.
April 1911.
S. N. Rhoads.
Paratype No.
18179 A. N. S. P. From the camp at the Junction of the Chiguancay and Chanchan Rivers.
This example differs only in details of coloration and such characters as may result from age.
Length 21 mm.
Hylodes achatinus Boulenger based on a female 50 mm.
long is related.
It is however described and figured with the tongue notched behind.
Its color design is different partially suggestive of the present species as if unfinished.
Hylodes surdus Boulenger has no tympanic disk nostrils nearly equally distant from eye and snout tip and first finger shorter than second.
Hylodes whymperi Boulengeri has the tympanum first finger shorter than second skin of back tubercular and coloration different.
Hylodes unistrigatus Giinther has the tympanum not quite half diameter of eye and a strong fold across the chest.
Hylodes huckleyi Boulenger has the snout equal to the eye tympanum a little over a third length of eye toes free and slightly fringed and skin above with smooth warts.
8 Proc.
Zool.
Soc London 1898 p. 120 PI.
15 figs.
22a.
Cachabe 9 Cat.
Bat.
Sal. 1882 p. 212 PI.
14 fig.
3.
W. Ecuador.
 L. c p. 218.
Tortorillas and Cotocachi.
11 Proc.
Zool.
Soc London 18.59 p. 416.
W. Ecuador.
i2 Cat.
Bat.
Sal. 1882 p. 217 PI.
14 fig.
5.
Intac.
Hylodes longirostris Boulenger'' differs in the long snout containing the eyediameter about If in its length and the coloration.
Named for Pagma Forest where the type was secured.
BNGYSTOMATID.
Phryniscus laevis Gunther.
Twenty from the mountains above Chimbo at an elevation of 10000 to 10800 feet in April 1911.
Nine from Hacienda Gorzon to foot of Mount Pichincha on May 161911.
One from Quito on June 4 1911.
This and the above collected by S. N. Rhoads.
One obtained by Dr. M. Meitzner from Huigra to Rio Chiguancay.
Mr. Rhoads says these frogs were found in the open pastures along the mountain side.
They appeared to crawl or walk and when one endeavored to grasp or try to catch them they weakly tried to hop.
The sexes were noticeably different and the males were always much smaller.
As this was the spawning season they were usually found copulating.
The males clasp the females very tightly mount from above and their grasp is axillary.
Sometimes another male would grasp a male already in coitus.
All found were in wet or damp places extremely abundant and appeared usually oblivious to danger.
When handled they made a weak squeak.
Variation in color was very great and on the lower surface of the body varied from dark orange brickred to lighter or sometimes to a gamboge tint.
Upper surface of body usually not variable mostly olivebrown.
None of the larger animals as hawks opossums rats or foxes seemed to prey on them.
Their only enemy appeared to be an ant thrush Grallaria monticoJa and it did feed on them.
DENDROBATIDiE.
Dendrobates trivittatus Spix.
One example 19 mm.
in length from the camp near junction of Chiguancay and Chanchan Rivers taken in March 1911.
Color with snout brown back black and white line includes edge of ' upper eyelid to groin well contrasted.
Lower surface uniformly whitish.
RANID.
Phyllodromus pulchellus Espada.
One example 15 mm.
long from Bucay in July 1911.
13 Proc.
Zool.
Soc London 1898 p. 120 PI.
15 fig.
1.
Cachabe.
Phyllobates infraguttatus Boulenger.
Two examples from Huigra in Chimbo at 4000 feet elevation on February 18 1911.
Twelve examples from camp at junction of Chiguancay and Chanchan Rivers in March 1911.
Some of the above differ from Boulenger's figure in showing the white spots of the lower region much larger or with the intervening dark color quite narrow producing a reticulated appearance.
Some also have a more or less large dark blotch at each side of the sternum.
Upper surfaces of hind legs in most all examples usually distinctly crossbanded with darker.
Possibly a few slight tubercles or granules on the back may be due to preservation or only variation.
Most are perfectly smooth.
Six others young with same data as last lot show the bellj' and lower surfaces more or less whitish though usually with two dark blotches on chest one each side of median line.
Mr. Rhoads says the adults were found with the tadpoles hanging on their backs.
These were apparently attached to the rugosities or slight tubercles on the back the tadpole hanging by means of its mouth with the appearance of holding on as if by a teat.
The tadpoles were always found attached with their tails drooping backward and six to ten were noticed on a single adult.
In color the tadpoles were leadenblack.
The adults were quite noisy.
Prostherapis whymperi Boulenger.
One example 27 mm.
long on trip from Hacienda Gorzon to Mount Pichincha May 10 1911.
Color above blackish finely spotted with greenishwhite and lateral stripe same color.
Belly brassybrown and head and throat spots indistjnct.
Found in a swamp.
Hyloxalus huigrse sp.
nov. PI.
VIII lower figure.
Body depressed.
Head moderate depressed moderately.
Snout moderately depressed rather angular as viewed from above well protruded beyond lower jaw.
Eye large about 1 in snout or equal to space between front eye edge and nostril.
Mouth large rictus extending back about opposite hind eye edge.
Maxillary teeth minute mostly uniserial each tooth simple short and conic and mostly hidden by thin lip.
Vomerine teeth absent.
Tongue large ellipsoid hind edge deeply emarginate though rather evenly concave and hind third free.
Internal nares moderate.
External nares small mark inner third of anterointerorbital width.
Canthus rostralis scarcely distinct and lores oblique.
Interorbital flat.
Tympanum small rounded about onethird in eye length.
Skin perfectly smooth above and on sides of both trunk and limbs.
Lower surface of body including breast belly and lower femoral region weakly granular though granules all rather large in size.
Lower surfaces of fore limbs and throat smooth.
Limbs rather slender.
Fingers and toes entirely free without any webs whatever.
First finger a little shorter than second dilated basally with moderate tubercle or pollex third longest and tips of all broadly dilated so that front edges wide or greater tharf diameter of tympanum.
Toes slender fourth much longest and distal disks or dilations similar to those on fingers.
A welldeveloped tubercle at base of first toe on sole of foot inside and of about equal extent to that of first finger.
Tarsal fold very indistinct.
Color in alcohol largely dull or graybrown above much paler below.
Back scarcely variegated.
A dark broad band connects eyes across interorbital for its posterior extent and beyond till opposite hind edge of tympani.
Limbs above with indistinct darker crossbars or blotches.
Groin not variegated and breast and belly likewise.
Length 20 mm.
Type No.
18113 A. N. S. P. Huigra at an elevation about 4000 feet Ecuador.
February 13 IQIL S. N. Rhoads.
Related to Hyloxalus hocagei Espada which differs in having the kin quite smooth canthus rostralis angular loreal region nearly vertical tympanum half width of eye toes nearly entirely webbed and coloration.
Named for Huigra the type locality.
Rana brevipalmata rhoadsi subsp.
nov. PI.
IX upper figure.
Body moderately depressed.
Head moderately depressed wider than rest of body.
Snout moderately depressed somewhat pointed as viewed from above well protruded beyond lower jaw.
Eye large about equals snout in length.
Mouth large rictus extends back opposite front edge of tympanum.
Maxillary teeth short conic strong uniserial and hidden by lip.
Vomerine teeth weak small in two rounded patches between and partly behind internal nares.
Tongue large sagittate or elongately triangular with deep notch behind and posteriorly free for a third its length.
Internal nares well separated moderate in size.
External nares small widely separated further apart than interorbital width.
Canthus rostralis little developed and lores oblique.
Interorbital depressed though  Boulenger Cat.
Batr.
Sal 1882 p. 138.
Sarayacu and Canelos.
slightly convex.
Tympanum moderate rounded about f orbital length.
Skin largely smooth above and perfectly so on sides of both trunk and limbs as well as entire lower portions.
On back between eyes and vent a number of minute obsolete wideset granulations.
Limbs slender.
Fingers free and toes all completely webbed.
First finger longer than second subequal with third with large tubercle or pollex basally inside.
Tubercles on fingers and toes not very conspicuous.
Toes slender and fourth much longest.
Cuneate tubercle at base of first toe well developed though much smaller than that of first finger.
Tarsal fold very pronounced along inner edge of tarsus.
Color in alcohol with back and upper surface of head deep olivebrown marked obscurely with some rather wideset illdefined dusky spots.
Lips and tympanum browni and throat much paler or lighter also uniform.
Fore limbs brownish paler lelow and upper surfaces with obscure dusky marks as streaks or blotches.
From elbow to palm posteriorly dark streak well defined.
Hind limbs brownish above pale below and both surfaces mottled with rather coarse dark reticulations most distinct or blackish along hind femoral regions.
Feet also variegated with dusky.
Sides of trunk with pale olive tint with a few obscure dusky spots.
Belly pale like throat.
Length 43 mm.
Type No.
18051 A. N. S. P. Bucay Province of Guayas Western Ecuador.
July 1911.
S. N. Rhoads.
Nos.
18073 18080 and 18082 to 18084 paratypes same data.
This subspecies is closely related to Ranula hrevipalmata Cope figured for comparison as Plate VIII lower figure but differs in several characters such as the smaller tympanum and much shorter snout.
It agrees however in the coloration especially in not having the limbs transversely barred with darker above.
For comparison I have had Cope's type.
According to Mr. Rhoads it lives about springs and recalls the habits of our spring frog Rana clamato.
A tadpole with the same data as the examples from Bucay is likely identical.
Named for Mr. S. N.
Rhoads.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1874 p. 131.
Nauta.
12 REPTILIA.
COLUBRIDJE.
COLUBRIN..
Drymobius boddaertii Sentzen.
Two from between Huigra to Rio Chiguancay in 19091911 collected by Dr. Max Meitzner.
Drymobius dendrophis Schlegel. 
One with same data as last.
Erpetodryas fuscus Linnseus.
A large example from the Rio Chiguancay taken by Mr. Rhoads in March 1911.
It runs swiftly along the ground.
Another smaller was taken near Bucay in July 1911.
It was found in bushes several feet above the ground.
Leptophis occidentalis Gunther.
One from between Huigra to Rio Chiguancay in 19091911 collected by Dr. Meitzner.
Liophis albiventris Jan.
One with same data as last and another from Quito taken by Mr. Rhoads on June 4 1911.
TJrotheca lateristriga Berthold.
One from between Huigra to Rio Chiguancay 19091911 taken by Dr. Meitzner.
Lampropeltis micropholis Cope.
Eight examples and one head with same data as last.
Mr. Rhoads secured an example from Huigra at 4200 feet elevation on February 17 1911.
Another was also secured by him at Hacienda Jalancay Chinchi in the Province of Chimborazo in April.
1911.
Atractus badius Boie.
One from Huigra at 4500 feet elevation found under the ground on February 18 1911 by Mr. Rhoads.
Dr. Meitzner also secured the larger example from between Huigra to Rio Chiguancay in 19091911.
HOMALOPSIN.E.
Leptodeira albofusca iLacepede.
One from the lowlands near Duran taken near the edge of a forest February 12 1911.
ELAPIN.E.
Elaps fraseri Boulenger.
Two from between Huigra to Rio Chiguancay secured letween 1909 1911 bv Dr. Meitzner.
AMBLYOEPHALID.
Leptognathus ellipsifera Boulenger.
One same data as last.
Leptognathus andianus Boulenger.
Two also same data as preceding.
CROTALID.
Lachesis schlegelii Berthold.
One same data as preceding.
Lachesis microphthalmus Cope.
Two examples and one head.
These from Dr. Aleitzner and with same data as last.
GECKONID.
Gonatodes caudiscutatus Gunther.
Two secured in July 1911 by Mr. Rhoads at Bucay.
They were found living in crevices of porches of the second story of houses.
They were seen to come out on the screen about a foot or so from their retreat.
Their movements were slow and sluggish and they darted suddenly for a short distance only.
IGUANID.
Anolis gemmosus O'Shaughnessy.
Two from Bucay in July 1911 secured by Mr. Rhoads.
Basiliscus galeritus A. Dumdril.
Mr. Rhoads secured two from the camp at the junction of the Rio Chiguancay and Rio Chanchan in March 1911 and three more at Bucay in July 1911.
According to Mr. Rhoads it is a most interesting species.
It was found frequenting the banks of running streams where they would sit on the rocks in the open sunshine.
These rocks were always near the edge of the water.
When disturbed the lizards would suddenly dart across the intervening running water to the next rock or boulder and then turn their heads around and look at the intruder in a most apish fashion.
In crossing the surface of the water their feet and tails would move so rapidly that no portion of the animal appeared submerged.
Often the fore part of the body was raised an inch or more above the surface.
Frequently the lizards would cross very turbulent water.
When chased from rock to rock they would finally attempt to cross even wide torrents and are able by the great speed of their movements to go as far as thirty or forty feet before becoming exhausted.
They would then sink below the surface and if watched carefully they may have been found to rise again farther down stream to swim towards the bank though Mr. Rhoads had not seen them reach it under these difficulties.
Another variety green and blue in color was found up to 3500 feet elevation at least to Chanchan.
It lives about the streams on the edges of forests.
When the sun appears these lizards would keep along the edges of the water.
One was seen to cross a small stream near Bucay.
Liocephalus iridescens Gunther.
One from between Huigra to Rio Chiguancay 19091911 secured by Dr. Meitzner.
Liocephalus guntheri Boulenger.
Mr. Rhoads secured eight at Rio Bamba in April 1911 and one on a trip from Hacienda Gorzon to the foot of Mount Pichincha on May 11 1911 at an elevation of 10500 feet.
Of the Bucay examples one was young and shows two lateral white lines the first from the hind eyeedge and second from below ear.
TEIIDuE.
Ameiva septemlineata A. Dum6ril.
One from camp at junction of Rio Chiguancay and Rio Chanchan in March 1911 two from Huigra in April and six from Bucay in July.
All obtained by Mr. Rhoads.
Some examples vary in having an outer or fourth row of ventral plates sometimes rudimentary or again better developed.
Most larger examples show no median streak down the back and present in only one case.
Proctoporus unicolor Gray.
One from Hacienda Gorzon to the foot of Mount Pichincha on May 16 1911.
Taken by Mr. Rhoads.
VENEZUELA.
The Amphibians and Reptiles from Venezuela form part of the collections of natural history objects brought together by Mr. Francis E. Bond.
Like the fishes which I have previously reported they were all secured in the Orinoco delta region during the late winter and early spring of 1911.
Mr.
Bond has kindly given the collection to the museum of the Academy.
HYLIDiE.
Hyla maxima Laurenti.
One from near the mouth of the Manamo found on a palm leaf.
Another from the Manamo near Boca Uracoa.
Mr. Brown says they were very abundant and vociferous doubtless due to the heavy rains then prevailing.
Both examples adult.
OOLUBRID.
COLUBRfNiE.
Helicops angulatus Linnaeus.
Two young and several eggs containing similar specimens from Cariquito.
Drymobius boddaertii Sentzen.
Two from Cariquito.
Phrynonax fasciatus Peters.
One from Cariquito.
Spilotes pullatas.
Three large examples all from Cariquito.
Coluber corais Boie.
Two adults from Cariquito.
Erpetodryas sezcarinatus Wagler.
One obtained at Cariquito.
Ehadinaea cobella Linnaeus.
One from the Juanipa River.
HOMALOPSIN.E.
Oxybelis fulgidus Daudin.
One large example from Cariquito.
It contained a lizard about a foot in length.
Oxybelis acuminatus Wied.
Two from Cariquito.
BOIID.
Corallus cookii Gray.
Two from Cariquito.
IQUANID.
Anolis nitens bondi .subsp.
nov.
Plate 10.
Body long nearly cylindrical and no dorsonuchal fold.
Tail compressed without crest.
Head and trunk about two in tail.
Head depressed longer than tibia.
Snout depressed tip rather broadly convex.
Eye lateral elongate much nearer ear than snout tip.
Eyelids minutely scaly movable.
Teeth moderately large and becoming larger posteriorly or below eyes.
Teeth in front of each jaw small.
A small gular appendage though no tramsverse fold across throat.
Interorbital space very narrow and concave.
Ear much smaller than eye rounded.
Upper head scales large smooth and in three or four series on bony interorbital.
Occipital scale rounded much larger than ear.
Scales on back small or minute subhexagonal juxtaposed smooth and about four vertebral series distinctly more or less uniformly larger.
Ventral scales rhomboidal much larger than dorsal and each one with a distinct lengthwise keel.
Upper scales on limbs all rhomboid and more or less keeled lower scales minute and like those on back.
Scales on tail all rather larger than those on Ijack similar to those comprising vertebral series.
.
Limbs slender and long toe slender with distal joints raised above penultimate and mostly slightly swollen.
Adpressed hind limb not quite reaching forward to snout tip.
Color in alcohol mostly pale or dull greenishgray with metallic lustre and lower surface of head and trunk more or less whitish.
Latter regions besides lower surface of tail with scattered dusky dots rather inconspicuously distributed.
Total length 95 mm.
Type No.
18277 A. N. S. P. Cariquito Venezuela.
March 1911.
Francis E. Bond and Stewardson Brown.
Only known from the above example.
It is possibly only a form of Anolis nitens Wagler though according to Boulenger's account that species would differ in having the head shorter than the tibia the upper head scales keeled the enlarged dorsal vertebral scales in only two series the adpressed hind limb reaching beyond the snout tip the digits ver feebly dilated the rounded tail more than twice length of head and body and the coloration.
Named for Mr. Francis E. Bond who organized the Venezuela Expedition of 1911.
Polychrus marmoratus Linnus.
Four from Cariquito.
Tropidurus torquatus Wied.
Two from Cariquito.
Plica plica Linnaus.
Four from Cariquito.
Iguana tuberculata Laurenti.
Three examples from Corical.
16 Cat.
Lizards Brit.
Mus. Ed.
2 II 1885 p. 91.
TEIID.
Tupinambis teguexin Linnaeus.
Two from Cariquito.
Tupinambis nigropunctatus Spix.
Two examples from Cariquito.
Ameiva ameiva Linnaeus.
One from the Jiianipa River and two from Cariquito.
Cnemidophorus lemniscatus Daudin.
Four males and two females from Cariquito.
SCINCID.
Mabuya agilis Raddi.
One from Cariquito.
CROCODILIDJE.
Jacaretinga sclerops Schneider.
One from Corical.
Jacaretinga Spix has page priority over Caiman Spix.
TESTUDINID.
Testudo denticulata Linnjeus.
A large shell from the Juanipa River also two small specimens with same data.
YUCATAN.
A small collection from the Chichenitza Ruins in the northeastern part of this country was made by Mr. Edward H. Thompson.
It becomes the property of the Academy through Dr. Ward Brinton.
ENGYSTOMATIDiE.
Rliinophrynus dorsalis Dumril and Bibron.
OOLUBRIDiE.
Coluber corais Linnaeus.
Oxybelis acuminatus Wied.
Leptodeira personata Cope.
Himantodes gemmistriatus Cope.
Elaps fulvius Linnaeus.
GLAUCONID.
Glauconia albifrons Wagler.
IGUANID.
Ctenosaura acanthura Shaw.
FAUNAL WORKS.
Ecuador.
BouLENGER Geoege A.
1880.
Reptiles et Batraciens recueillis par M. Emile de Ville dans des Andes de I'Equateur.
Bull.
Soc.
Zool.
France.
1880 pp.
4148.
1881.
Description of a new Species of Enyalius in the Brussels Museum.
Proc.
Zool.
Soc London 1881 pp.
246247 PI.
26.
1882.
Account of the Reptiles and Batrachians collected by Mr. Edward Whymper in Ecuador in 187980.
Aim.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist. London' 5 IX 1882 pp.
4.57468.
1891.
Travels amongst the Great Andes of the Equator by Edward Whymper.
Supplementary Appendi.v Reptiles and Batrachia pp.
128136.
1898.
An Account of the Reptiles and Batrachians collected by Mr. W. F. H. Rosenberg in Western Ecuador.
Proc.
Zool.
Soc London' 1898 pp.
107126 Pis.
1018.
1899.
Description of a new Lizard of the genus Ameiva from Ecuador.
L. c 1899 pp.
517518 PI.
28. .
Descriptions of new Reptiles and Batrachians collected by Mr. P. O. Simons in the Andes of Ecuador.
Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist. London 7 IV 1899 pp.
454457.
1902.
Descriptions of new Batrachians and Reptiles from Northwestern Ecuador.
L. c 7 IX 1902 pp.
5157.
1912.
Descriptions of new Reptiles from the Andes of South America preserved in the British Museum.
L. c 8 X 1912 pp.
420424.
Cope Edward D. 1868.
An examination of the Reptilia and Batrachia obtained by the Orton Expedition to Ecuador and the Upper Amazon with notes on other species.
Proc Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1868 pp.
96119.
 1869.
Seventh Contribution to the Herpetology of Tropical America.
Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc Phila. XI 1869 pp.
147169 Pis.
911.
Pebas Ecuador pp.
155156.
1870.
Eighth Contribution to the Herpetologv of Tropical America.
L. c 1870 pp.
553559.
Pebas Ecuador pp.
553554.
Despax R. 1910.
Mission geodesique de I'Equateur.
Collections recueillies par M. le Dr. Rivet.
 Liste des Ophidiens et description des especes nouvelles.
Bull.
Mus.
Hist.
Nat. Paris 1910 No.
7 pp.
368376.
1911.
Note preliminaire relative aux Lezards rapportes de I'Equateur par M. le Dr. Rivet.
L. c 1911 No.
1 pp.
912. .
Mission geodesique de I'Equateur.
Collections recueillies par M. le Dr. Rivet.
Batraciens anoures.
L. c 1911 No.
3 pp.
9094.
EsPADA M. X.
DE LA.
1871.'
Zoologia.
Faunae neotropicalis species qusedam nondum cognitse.
Jorn.
Sci.
Math.
Acad.
Lisbon III 1871 pp.
5765.
EsPADA D. M. Jimenez de la.
1872.
Nuevos Batrcios Americanos.
Ann.
Soc Espan.
Hist.
Nat. Madrid I 1872 pp.
8588.
EsPADA .
1875.
Viaje al Pacifico Vertebr. Batr.
an.
Madrid 1875 4to pp.
1208 Pis.
7.
Not consulted.
Garman Samuel.
1892.
On Reptiles collected by Dr. George Baur near Guayaquil Ecuador.
Bidl.
Essex hist. XXIV 1892 pp.
8895.
GtJNTHER Albert.
1859.
List of the Coldblooded Vertebrata collected by Mr. Fraser in the Andes of Western Ecuador.
Proc.
Zool.
Soc London 1859 pp.
8993. .
Second List of Coldblooded Vertebrata collected bv Mr. Fraser in the Andes of Western Ecuador.
L. c 1859 pp.
402420 PI.
20.
Amphibians and Reptiles pp.
402418 PI.
20.
1860.
Thud List of Coldblooded Vertebrata collected by Mr. Fraser in Ecuador.
L. c 1860 pp.
233240 PL 10.
Amphiliians and Reptiles pp.
233236.
O'Shatjghnessy W. E. 1880.
Description of a new species of Anolis with notice of some other Species of that Genus from Ecuador.
Proc Zool.
Soc London 1880 pp.
491493 PI.
49.
O'SHAtJGHNESSY WE. LS81.
An Account of the Collection of Lizards made by Mr. Buckley in Ecuador and now in the British Museum with Descriptions of the New Species.
L. c 1881 pp.
227245 Pis.
2225.
Orton James.
1871.
Contributions to the Natural History of the Valley of Quito.
Reptiles.
Amer.
Nat. V 1871 p. 693.
Peracca M. G. 1897.
Viaggio del Dr. Enrico Festa nell' Ecuador e region
vicine.
Rettili.
Boll.
Mas.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp.
Torino XX 1897 No.
300 pp.
120.
1904.
L. c Rettili ed Amfibi.
L. c XIX 1904 No.
465 pp.
141.
Werner Franz.
1901.
Ueber Reptilien und Batrachier aus Ecuador und Neu Guinea.
Verhand.
Zool.
Ges.
Wien II 1901 pp.
593614.
PL 5.
Reptilien und Batrachier von Ecuador pp.
593602.
Venezuela.
BoETTGER O.
189394.
Reptilien und Batrachier aus Venezuela.
Bericht Senckenberg.
Naturf.
Ges. 189394 pp.
3.542.
1895.
On .some Reptiles and Batrachians from Tobago.
Journ.
Trinidad Club II 1895 pp.
145146.
Not consulted.
BouLENGER G. A.
1903.
On some Batrachia and Reptilia from Venezuela.
Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist. London 7 XI 1903 pp.
481484.
1905.
Description of a new snake from Venezuela.
L. c 7 XV 1905 p. 561.
1911.
On a new treefrog from Trinidad living in the Societv's gardens.
Proc.
Zool.
Soc London 1911 pp.
10821083 PI.
64.
Cope Edward D. 1884.
Twelfth Contribution to the Herpetology of Tropical America.
Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc Phila. XXII 1884 pp.
167194 PI.
Aruba Leeward Islands pp.
180181 Curacao pp.
181182.
Ernst.
Adolfo.
1877.
Estudios sobre la Flora y Fauna de Venezuela Caracas 1877 p. 279.
Short notice of reptile fauna.
1887.
Lacertilia venezuelana 6 sea Enumeraci6n sistematica de las especies de Lagartos que hasta ahora se han encontrado en Venezuela.
Rev.
CienfMus.
Venezuela I 188788 pp.
213218.
Lidth de Jeude T. W. van.
1887.
On a collection of Reptiles and Fishes from the West Indies.
Notes Leyd.
Mus. IX 1887 pp.
129139 PI.
2.
Mostly Amphibia and Reptiles from Aruba and Curacao.
Meek Seth E. 1910.
Notes on Batrachians and Reptiles from the Islands North of Venezuela.
Field Mus.
Nat.
Hist.
Pub. 140 Zool.
Ser.
VII No.
12 1910 pp.
415418.
Mole R. R. and Urich F. W. 1894.
List of Reptiles and Batrachians of Trinidad.
Journ.
Trinidad Club II 1894 pp.
7779.
Not consulted.
  .
Biological Notes upon some of the Ophidia of Trinidad B. W. I. with a Preliminary List of the Species recorded from the Island.
Proc.
Zool.
Soc London 1894 pp.
499518.
Peters Wilhelm.
1877.
Sammlung des Hrn.
Dr. Carl Sachs in Venezuela.
Monatsb.
Ak.
Wiss.
Berlin 1877 pp.
457460 PI.
I. Stejneger Leonhard.
1902.
An Annotated List of Batrachians and Reptiles Collected in the Vicinity of La Guaira Venezuela with Descriptions of Two New Species of Snakes.
Proc U. S. Nat.
Mus. XXIV 1902 pp.
179192 figs.
133.
Werner Franz.
1900.
Ueber Reptilien und Batrachier aus Columbien imd Trinidad.
Verhand.
Zool.
Bot.
Ges.
Wien. L 1900 pp.
262272.
Yucatan.
Barbour Thomas and Cole Leon J.
1906.
Vertebrata from Yucatan.
Bull.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool L 1906 pp.
1011.59 Pis.
12.
Reptilia and Amphibia pp.
147155.
Cope Edward D. 1806.
Fourth Contribution to the Herpetology of Tropical America.
Proc Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. 1866 pp.
1231.32.
I.
The collection made by direction of the Governor of Yucatan Jose Salazar vStarregni by Arthur Schott Naturalist of the Commission and sent to the Smithsonian Institution pp.
123127.
Cope Edward D. 1885.
A Contribution to the Herpetology of Mexico.
Proc.
Amcr.
Philos.
Soc Phila. XXIT 1884 1885.
pp
379404.
Cozume Island off Eastern Yucatan pp.
387390.
GuNTHER Albert.
1902.
Reptilia and Batrachia Bioloqia CentraliAmericana pp.
1326 Pis.
176.
Explanation of Plates VX.
Plate V.  Upper figure Bufo coeruleocellatus sp.
nov. Lower figure Bufo chanchanensis sp.
nov.
Plate VI.
 Upper figure Hyla chimbce sp.
nov. Lower figure Hyla riobambce sp.
nov.
Plate VII.
 Upper figure Hijla quitoe sp.
nov. Lower figure Hyla qidnquefasciaia sp.
nov.
Plate VIII.
 Upper figure Hylodes pagtnoe sp.
nov. Lower figure Hyloxalus huigrce sp.
nov.
Plate IX.
 Upper figure Rana brevipahnata rhoadsi subsp.
nov. Lower figure Rana brevipalmata Cope.
Plate .Anolis nitens bondi subsp.
nov.
