DESCRIPTION OF A NEW BLENNY FROM NEW JERSEY WITH Notes ON OTHER FISHES FROM THE MIDDLE ATLANTIC STATES.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
During 1912 and the past year a number of local collections have been acquired by the Academy.
Many afford new or interesting localities which are grouped according to the several States.
Though multitudes of the commoner species were examined at the fisheries usually small collections and small specimens were obtained where possible.
New Jersey.
Dasyatis say Le Sueur.
Examined a large one on the beach at Corson's Inlet June 20 1913.
At this locality on June 19 saw Fundulus heteroclitus macrolejyidotus Poronotus triacanthus Cynoscion regalis Chiloniyderus schnepfi and Lophius piscatorius
On June 20 and 21 saw Anguilla chrisypa Fundulus heteroclitus macrolepidotus Fistularia tabacaria Hippocampus hudsonius Cynoscion regalis Bairdiella chrysura Scicenops oceUatus Menticirrhus saxatilis Pogonias cromis Monacanthus hispidus and Paralichthys dentatus
The Fistularia was preserved having been taken in the summer of 1912 and was about 15 inches long.
Several selachians have been reported to me on apparently trustworthy authoiity.
They are Alopias vulpes
One 16 feet long taken in the pounds at Sea Isle City in IMay 1900.
T. Kupfer.
Scoliodon terraenovae.
One about 3 feet long examined by Mr. W. J.
Fox was parasitized with numerous female copepods Pandarus sinuatus which were preserved.
This shark was secured May 31 1913 and the fishermen reported several more shortly afterward.
Squatina squatina.
One reported at Ocean City on December 31 1912 and another in the same month at Stone Harbor credited with being four feet long.
Dorosoma cepedianum I.c Sueur.
Dr. R. J. Phillips secured an adult at Corson's Inlet October 16 1913 taken in a mulletnet.
Synodus foetens Linnseus.
One received from Dr. Phillip.s taken in the summer of 1912 at Corson's Inlet with Atopichthys Gasterosteus acideatus and Lagodon rhomhoides.
Mr. D. McCadden secured an example at Ocean City on September 17 1912.
Felichthys marinus Mitchill.
An adult from Corson's Inlet secured on August 19 1912 by Mr. Fox.
Tylosurus marinus Walbaum.
Many examples about ten inches long obtained by Mr. McCadden on August 11 1912 at Ocean City.
August 30 1913 at the same locality he obtained a young Prionotus evolans strigatus and found Seriola zonata abundant.
Tylosurus raphidoma Ranzani.
Dr. Phillips secured a large example on August 15 1913 taken in the pounds at Sea Isle City.
Several other examples were also taken.
The species appears to be frequent off our coast in the summer.
Sphyraena borealis De Kay.
A small one was secured in the bay at Corson's Inlet on August 2.
1913 by Dr. Phillips.
Trichiurus lepturus Linnseus.
Mr. Fox reported one at Sea Isle City on July 5 1912 and another on July 16 which last contained numerous small whitish eggs.
A third example was taken in Great Egg Harbor Bay at Ocean City July 30 1913 and notice sent to me by Mr. W. B. Davis.
Caranx hippos Linnaeus.
A small example was obtained at Corson's Inlet on September 7 1913 and another a little larger on September 8 by Dr. Phillips.
Rachycentron canadus Linnaeus.
Mr. Fox secured an example 30 inches long at Sea Isle City on August 12 1912.
Orthopristis chrysopterus Linnsus.
Five small ones were caught at Corson's Inlet on September 20 1913 and forwarded by Dr. Phillips.
When caught they grunted.
Sciaenops ocellatus Linnaeus.
Dr. Phillips secured a small one at Corson's Inlet on September 8 1913 and about the same time Mr. McCadden got a large one at Ocean City.
Both these specimens were infested with lerneans.
344 Apr. Blennius foxi sp.
nov. Head 3 depth 3 D. XI 15 A.
18 P. 14 V. i3 head width '3  If in its length head depth at ventral origin 1 snout 3 eye 3 maxillary 2f  interorbital space 2 in eye first dorsal spine about If in head tenth dorsal ray about If tenth anal ray about 2 least depth of caudal peduncle 2f caudal fin If tenth pectoral ray 1 ventral 2.
Body elongate well compressed contour elongately ellipsoid with greatest depth at pectoral base.
Caudal peduncle well compressed short.
Head large compressed rather pointed anterior upper profile moderately oblique moderately convex sides slightly more wide below than above.
Snout short profile oblique surface convex slightly shorter than broad.
Eye large high rounded and anterior in head centre falling slightly behind first third in length of head.
Pupil horizontally ellipsoid.
Supraorbital cirrus large its length about equals postorbital portion of head and with two smaller filaments each side basally.
Mouth moderate terminal and jaws about even gape below upper basal edge of pectoral.
Lips broad fleshy.
Maxillary large slightly inclined and nearly extending back opposite centre of eye.
Teeth simple closeset and about 17 in each jaw.
Also each jaw with a posterior canine on each side posteriorly thus 4 in all and the upper a little anterior to middle in length of maxillary as viewed laterally.
Mandile strong convex over surface and rami not much elevated inside mouth.
Tongue thick fleshy little free and far back.
Nostrils separated though rather close and near middle in length of snout.
Interorbital narrowly concave.
Gillopenings entirely lateral large each about equal in length to combined snout and eye and extend forward last third in length of heatl.
Interior not examined.
Body scaleless with smooth skin.
Mucous system well developed on head especiallj' along preopercle ridge.
L. 1. system at first somewhat distinct high or close to back and towards end of pectoral sloping down till midway along side when obscure to caudal base.
Dorsals little differentiated spines similar to simple rays slightly more pungent both rays and spines more or less uniform and covered with membrane edge of fin entire.
Dorsal origin little before hind edge of preopercle.
Rayed dorsal well separated behind from caudal peduncle and anal fin similar.
Anal with edge notched rays graduated down to shortest anteriorly and fin inserted a little nearer snout tip than caudal base.
Caudal moderately long hind edge rounded.
Pectoral large graduated to ninth ray which longest and lower rays less graduated and thickened.
Ventral inserted slightly before spinous dorsal origin extends back slightlj more than half way to anal.
Vent close before anal.
Color when fresh largely various shades of neutral tint with dorsal and anal slightly darker.
Head marked with dark blotches of neutral tint which somewhat obscurely defined and radiate from eye.
Trunks with seven vertical broad dark bands wider or equal to the interspaces and each with several whitish spots or blotches variously distributed within their boundaries.
These dark vertical bands also reflected more or less on bases of dorsals.
Iris brownish.
Cirrus dusky.
Dorsals deep neutral tint without pale edge and membrane between first two spines blackish.
Anal with free tips of rays whitish and a submarginal deep neutral tint whole length of fin base being paler.
Caudal pale grayish.
Pectoral livid gray with several dark blotches before its base.
Ventral pale along front edge terminal portion behind dusky.
Length 38 mm.
Type No.
39440 A. N. S. P. Sea Isle City Cape May County New Jersey.
September 5 1913.
Edward Nolan Fox.
Only the type known.
It was secured in a little slough formed about the pilings of the pier and left by the tides.
The specimen was alive when found swimming actively about though it died shortly after its capture when confined in a small vessel.
The species falls within the subgenus Blennius Linnaeus.
It is  related to Blennius fucorum Valenciennes though that species has a smaller and obtuse head its orbital cirrus bifid at tip and fringed at its base more teeth 24 in each jaw and a different coloration.
It is said to be oUvaceous spotted with brown and the spinous dorsal edged with paler.
De Kay figures an example secured between New York and Constantinople and it is therefore uncertain if he really obtained it in our limits.
Blennius stearnsi Jordan and Gilbert also differs in the coloration more slender body longer maxillary and more numerous teeth 24 to 26.
Named for Master Edward Nolan Fox who secured ths type.
Urophycis regius Walbaum.
Mr McCadden secured one in Great Egg Harbor Bay at Ocean City on July 6 1913 with Bairdiella chrysura and a large prawn Peneus setiferus.
The Bairdiella was infested with a lernean parasite.
On July 20 he found several more examples of Urophycis.
Urophycis tenuis Mitchill.
A small example in the Academy was obtained many years ago at Cape May.
This is the first I have seen.
On May 26 1912 I visited the Dutch Neck Fishery between Florence and Burlington on the Delaware River shores and found Abramis crysoleucas Ameiurus nebulosus Fundulus lieteroditus macrolepidotus F. diaphanus and Eupomotis gibbosus abundant.
On June 1 1913 I found Pomolobus pseudoharengus Anguilla chrisypa Catostomus commersonnii Abramis Schilbeodes gyrinus F. heteroclitus macrolepidotus F. diaphanus Apeltes quadracus Eupomotis and Boleosoma nigrum olmstedi.
Mr. J. T. Nichols informs me he found an example of Lobotes surinamensis on September 20 1913 at Galilee Seabright N. J. Scomber colias Pelamys alleterata and Chcetodipterus faber were also noted at the same time.
Another Lobotes with a large example of Fistularia tabacaria was also forwarded from Anglesea N. J. October 21 1913 through Mr. W. J.
Fox.
 Pennsylvania.
Two large collections were received from Eric one in April and the other in May 1912.
The specimens were collected in Lake Erie at or near Erie and forwarded at the direction of Mr. N. R. BuUer Fish Commissioner of Pennsylvania.
During the spring of 1912 and again in 1913 a great number of fishes were studied at Lovett's Fishery situated at the mouth of TuUytown Creek on the Delaware River.
A small springfed stream also flowing into the river close below this point was thoroughly exilorecl and yielded interesting material.
Though unnamed it is here referred to as Tullytown Brook.
In June 1912 1 visited Mr. F. J. Meyers at Bethlehem in Northampton County and made a number of collections from the streams flowing into the Lehigh River in that vicinity.
Mr. Meyers again invited me to join him in this region in late May of 1913 when we also made a few more collections.
We then continued this excursion to Pocono Summit and explored various streams in Monroe County.
Mr. R. W. Wehrle sent several collections from Indiana and Huntingdon Counties.
In late July I spent a week in the lower Susquehanna region around Peach Bottom in York County and with the assistance of Mr. H. L. Mather Jr. secured several interesting collections.
Various other collections of lesser interest though some quite extensive have also been received during the past two years.
Petromyzon marinus Linnseus.
A young bluish example taken in the shadnet at Tullytown.
Lampetra aepytera Abbott.
Mr. Wehrle sent three small ones though mature from Hoffman's Run in Indiana County.
He writes There were a lot of them sticking to stones in the riffles and I think they were spawning.
When scared down stream they remained quiet a while but soon returned to stick to the same stones.
Two others were also received from him taken in Brick Pond.
All taken in April 1913.
Acipenser sturio Linnaeus.
Two at the Tullytown Fishery.
One four feet long taken early in May and the other taken May 28 a small example.
Lepisosteus osseus huronensis Richardson.
Erie.
Amiatus calvus Linnseus.
Five from Erie one a female and others males.
Stomachs nearly empty one containing small Perca flavescens.
Pomolobus pseudoharengus Wilson.
Several hundred examined at Tullytown from which about a dozen copepods Naobranchia pomolohi were taken.
The parasites were all within the gillopenings.
One adult female had a lernean Lerneoceropsis septemramosus attached to its side below dorsal fin.
Pomolobus aestivalis Mitchill.
Many taken at TuUytown and in several hauls almost all the fish were this species.
A few copepods N aohranchia were also found in the gillopenings of some.
Alosa sapidissima Wilson.
Over a hundred examined at TuUytown though no crustacean parasites found on them.
Leuoichtliys artedi Le Sueur.
Erie.
Salmo fario Linnaeus.
One from the Schuylkill River below Fairmount Dam received from the Philadelphia Aquarium.
Possibly it was washed out of the Wissahickon Creek as suggested by Mr. W. E. Meehan.
Salvelinus fontinalis Mitchill.
Two from McMichael's Creek in Monroe County.
Abundant in the Monocacy Creek above Bethlehem and below in the Saucon Creek also at Hellertown. '
In Monroe County at Tannersville Pocono Creek Tunkhanna Creek Pocono Lake and Snyderville.
Mr. Wehrle sent an example from Laurel Run in Huntingdon County containing a cestode.
Anguilla ohrisypa Rafinesque.
TuUytown Creek Scott's Creek Lovett's Fishery Cash Ledge Bar and TuUytown Brook Bucks County.
Also common in Muddy Creek York County.
Campostoma anomalum Rafinesque.
North Branch of Altman Creek Yellow Creek and Brick Pond in Indiana County.
Pimephales notatus Rafinesque.
Yellow Creek North Branch of Altman Creek Lucus Pond and Brush Creek in Indiana County.
Abundant in the Susquehanna River at Peach Bottom York County.
Semotilus bullaris Rafinesque.
TuUytown Brook Fallsington and White's Island Bucks County Peach Bottom York County.
Semotilus atromaculatus Mitchill.
Hellertown Northampton County Tunkhanna Creek Tobyhanna Creek Pocono Lake Snyderville Monroe County Laurel Run Huntingdon County North Branch of Altman Creek Yellow Creek Brick Pond Lucus Pond Brush Creek Indiana County.
Leuciscus elongatus Kirtland.
North Branch of Altman Creek Brick Pond Lucus Pond Brush Creek IncUana County.
Abramis orysoleucas Mitchill.
Scott's Creek Cash Ledge Bar Tullytown Creek Tullytown Brook Fallsington Queen Anne Creek Bucks Coun'y Darby Creek near Moore's and Media Delaware County.
A ood series of adults from Erie do not differ from our common eastern examples.
In a collection of fishbones from a kingfisher's nest taken Maj 20 1913 at Bustleton sent to me by Mr. R. F. Miller I did not find the remains of this fish as in a previous nest I reported.
It contained only remains of Notropis cornutus Catostomus commersonnii and Cambarus bartonii.
Of the firstnamed about 40 pharyngeal bones were examined.
Notropis bifrenatus Cope.
Queen Anne Creek near Emilie Tullytown Brook Cash Ledge Bar Fallsington Bucks County Hellertown Lime Kiln Run Saucon and Monocacy Creeks Northampton County.
Notropis procne Cope.
Susquehanna River at Peach Bottom York County.
Notropis hudsonius amarus Girard.
Queen Anne Creek near Emilie White's Island Bucks County Schuylkill River below Fairmount Dam Philadelphia County Muddy Creek York County.
Notropis whipplii analostanus Girard.
Scott's Creek Tullytown Cash Ledge Bar White's Island Bucks County Muddy Creek and Peach Bottom York County.
Notropis cornutus Mitchill.
Robertson's Brook and Media Delaware County Monocacy and Saucon Creeks Lime Kiln Run Hellertown Northampton County Tunkhanna Creek Tobyhanna Creek Monroe County.
Muddy Creek Sowego Creek Peach Bottom York County.
North Branch of Altman Creek Yellow Creek Lucus Pond Brush Creek Indiana County.
Notropis chalybaeus Cope.
Delaware River at Cash Ledge Bar Bucks County.
Notropis photogenis amoenus Abbott.
Schuylkill River below Fairmount Dam Philadelphia County Susquehanna River at Peach Bottom York County.
Ericymba buccata Cope.
Yellow Creek Indiana County.
RMnichthys atronasus Mitchill.
Media and Robertson's Brook Delaware County White's Island Bucks County Lime Kiln Run Hellertown and Saucon Creek Northampton County Pocono Creek Tunkhanna Creek Tobyhanna Creek Pocono Lake Snyderville Monroe County.
Sowego Creek York County Laurel Run Huntingdon County.
North Branch of Altman Creek Lucus Pond Brick Pond and Brush Creek Indiana County.
Many from the last locality are greatly infested with protozoan parasites.
Hybopsis kentuckiensis Rafinesque.
Sowego Creek and Susquehanna River at Peach Bottom.
Muddy Creek York County.
Exoglossum maxillingua Le Sueur.
Muddy Creek and Sowego Creek York County.
.
Cyprinus carpio Linnsus.
TuUytown Erie Lucus Pond Indiana County.
Carpiodes thompsoni Agaasiz.
Erie.
Catostomus commersonnii LacepMe.
Robertson's Brook Delaware County Tullytown Creek Fallsington Bucks County Linie Kiln Run Saucon and Monocacy Creeks Northampton County Peach Bottom York County North Branch of Altman Creek Lucus Pond and Brush Creek Indiana County.
About a dozen examples were received from Erie some of which are nearly two feet long.
One of these was immediately noticed to be pale or whitish besides being silvery tinted.
When opened it contained a large cestode measuring 530 mm.
in length.
The parasite was submitted to Dr. J. P. Moore who kindly informs me that it is the larval stage of Dibothrium ligula Donnadieu.
He says it also occurs in the larval form in many birds and in the mature stage in fisheating birds.
The parasite was wound in several coils loosely through the liver and about the aldominal cavity.
No distension of the abdomen such as being swolkni out was noticed.
No parasites were found in the other fishes.
Catostomus nigricans Tc Smur.
Peach Bottom York County North Branch of Altman Creek Indiana County.
Erimyzon sucetta oblongus Mitchill.
Tullj'town Brook and Fallsingtoiij Bucks County.
Erie.
Moxostoma breviceps Copt.
Erie.
Moxostoma macrolepidotum Le Sueur.
Peach Bottom York County.
Ameiurus natalis Le Sueur.
Erie.
Ameiurus nebulosus Le Sueur.
Media Delaware County Schuylkill River below Fairmount Dam Philadelphia County Tullytown Scott's Creek Cash Ledge Bar and Tullytown Brook Bucks County Dry Land Pond Northampton County Brick Pond and Lucus Pond Indiana County.
Ameiurus melas Rafinesque.
Erie.
Schilbcodes gyrinus Mitchill.
An interesting example about eight inches long was taken in a fykenet at Torresdale in the Delaware River.
It was very pale or a case of albinism the general tint being dilute saffron.
Mr. J. R. Berkhouse secured it and sent it to the Philadelphia Aquarium where I saw it alive.
One adult from Lime Kiln Run Lehigh County.
Esox americanus Gmelin.
Media Delaware County Schuylkill River below Fairmount Dam Philadelphia County Scott's Creek Tullytown Brook Fallsington and one from Tullytown Creek at Tullytown on May 26 1913 with large roundworm in viscera Bucks County Saucon and Monocacy Creeks Northampton County Tobyhanna Creek and Pocono Lake Monroe County.
Esox reticulatus Le Sueur.
Erie.
Umbra pygmsea De Kay.
Tullytown Brook Bucks County.
Fundulus heteroclitus macrolepidotus Walbaum.
Darby Creek near Moore's Delaware County Scott's Creek Tullytown Brook Cash Ledge Bar Bucks County.
Fundulus diaphanus Le Sueur.
Media Darby Creek near Moore's Delaware County Tullytown Creek Tullytown Brook Scott's Creek Cash Ledge Bar White's Island Bucks County Monocacy and Saucon Creeks Northampton County.
Tylosurus marinus Walbaum.
Susquehanna River at Peach Bottom York County.
Apeltes quadracus Mitchill.
Monocacy and Saucon Creeks Northampton County.
Pomoxis annularis Rafinesque.
Schuylkill River below Fairmount Dam Philadelphia.
Pomoxis sparoides Lacepede.
Erie Delaware River at Tullytown Bucks County.
Ambloplites rupestris Rafinesque.
Lucus Pond Indiana County.
Also examples from Erie.
Enneacanthus gloriosus Holbrook.
Tullytown Brook Bucks County.
Lepomis auritus Linnaeus.
Media Delaware County Tullytown Brook Cash Ledge Bar and White's Island Bucks County Muddy Creek York County Lepomis incisor Valenciennes.
Erie.
Eapomotis gibbosus Linnseus.
Media Delaware County Tullytown Tullytown Brook Queen Anne Creek near Emilie Fallsington Cash Ledge Bar Bucks County Monocacy Creek Northampton County Saylor's Lake Monroe County.
Muddy Creek and Peach Bottom York County.
Erie.
Several small specimens from a minepond near Bethlehem taken in September 1913 and received from Mr. F. Burcaw were greatly parasitized with protozoa.
Micropterus dolomieu Lacepede.
Tullytown Bucks County Addingham Delaware County Yellow Creek Indiana County.
Micropterus salmoides Lacepede.
Erie.
Stizostedion vitreum Mitchill.
Erie.
Perca flavescens Mitchill.
Tullytown and Cash Ledge Bar Bucks County.
Erie.
Boleosoma nigrum Rafinesque.
North Branch of Altman Creek Yellow Creek and Brick Pond Indiana County.
Boleosoma nigrum olmstedi Storer.
Tullytown Brook Scott's Creek and White's Island Bucks County Hellertown Ionocacy and Saucon Creeks Northampton County Snyderville Tobyhanna Creek Pocono Lake Monroe County.
Peach Bottom York County Laurel Run Huntingdon County.
Etheostoma flabellare Rafinesque.
North Branch of Altman Creek and Brick Pond Indiana County.
Roccus lineatus Bloch.
TullytoA'n.
Roccus chrysops Rafinesque.
Erie.
Morone americana Gmelin.
Tullytown and Cash Ledge Bar Bucks County.
Aplodinotus grunniens Rafinesque.
Erie.
CottUS ictalops Rafinesque.
Yellow Creek and BrickPond Indiana County.
Cottus gracilis Heckel.
jMonocacy and Saucon Creeks and Lime Kiln Run Northampton County.
Delaware.
The following list pertains largely to a visit I made with Mr. C. J. Pennock to Ir.
A. D. Poole at Rehoboth in late April 1913.
Mr Poole assisted me in every way to make my stay profitable as possible.
On my return to Philadelphia several days were also spent at Lewes.
At Rehoboth I visited the offshore pounds and thus had opportunity of seeing many interesting species.
Several species are newadditions to the State fauna.
Mustelus canis Mitchill.
Rehoboth and Lewes beaches.
Common.
Raja erinacea Mitchill.
Lewes beach.
Few.
Raja ocellata Mitchill.
Rehoboth and Lewes beaches.
Common.
Raja eglanteria Lac6pede.
Rehoboth and Lewes beaches.
The most abundant species.
Raja laevis Mitchill.
Few large ones in the offshore pound at Rehoboth.
Acipenser sturio Linnaeus.
Two large ones in the Rehoboth pound.
The larger measured 104 inches in length and yielded about 50 pounds of caviare.
Lepisosteus OSSeus Linnaeus.
May 8 1913 Mr. Poole informs me large ones were very abundant in the dam at Greens Mills which is near Bridgeville.
The stream is the northwest fork of the Nanticoke.
Pomolobus mediocris Mitchill.
Small ones at Rehoboth and Lewes.
Pomolobus pseudoharengus Wilson.
Very abundant at Rehoboth and Lewes.
Alosa sapidissima Wilson.
Saw a few possibly a dozen each day at Rehoboth.
Few at Lewes.
Brevoortia tyrannus Latrobe.
Very common at Rehoboth.
Among the multitudes examined but one had Olencira prcegustator in its mouth besides being parasitized by Lernecenicus radiatus.
The latter was common on almost every fish.
Few at Lewes.
Anchovia mitchilli Valenciennes.
Large schools seen in the pound at Rehoboth.
Very common along the bayshore at Lewes.
Anguilla chrisypa Rafinesque.
Young in multitudes in Lewes Creek and the canal at Rehoboth.
Common at Lewes.
Abramis crysoleucas Mitchill.
A few in Lewes Creek at Rehoboth.
Ameiurus nebulosus Le Sueur.
Common in Lewes Creek and many young in the ponds lake and canal at Rehoboth.
Few at Lewes.
Esox reticulatus Le Sueur.
Several small ones in Lewes Creek at Rehoboth and Lewes.
Umbra pygmaea Oe Kay.
Abundant in Lewes Creek at Rehoboth and Lewes.
Fundulus majalis Walbaum.
Common on the bayshore at Lewes and about Cape Henlopen.
Fundulus heteroclitus macrolepidotus Walbaum.
Common with the last.
At Rehoboth it was common in the canal though less so in the lake and very abundant in Lewes Creek.
Fundulus diaphanus Le Sueur.
About Rehoboth common in the freshwater glades and some halfgro'n males in full breedingdress.
At Lewes a few were found in the tidal reaches of Lewes Creek though it was more common in the glades where I found few or none of the preceding species.
Lucania parva Baird.
Several in the canal at Rehoboth.
Menidia beryllina cerea Kendall.
Few in the canal at Rehoboth with the last.
Menidia menidia notata Mitchill.
Shoals seen in the pound at Rehoboth.
Also common on the bayshore at Lewes.
Hippocampus hudsonius De Kay.
Rehoboth beach.
Gasterosteus aouleatus Linnaeus.
One taken in the lake which virtually is head of Lewes Creek at Rehoboth.
Poronotus triacanthus Peck.
Common at Rehoboth and Lewes beaches.
Enneacanthus gloriosus Holbrook.
Common in the glades of Lewes Creek at Rehoboth and Lewes.
Eupomotis gibbosus Linnaeus.
In the lake at Rehoboth.
Orthopristis chrysopterus Linnaeus Several in Rehoboth pound.
Stenotomus chrysops Linnaeus.
Few large ones in Rehoboth pound.
Cynoscion regalis Schneider.
Very abundant at Rehoboth and Lewes.
Micropogon undulatus Linnaeus.
Common at Lewes and Rehoboth.
With the last the most abundant foodfish.
Menticirrhus saxatilis Schneider.
Few at Lewes and Rehoboth.
Pogonias cromis Linnaeus.
Several large ones in the Rehoboth pound.
24 Tautoga onitis Linnseus.
Lewes.
Spheroides maculatus Schneider.
Common in the Rehoboth pound.
Prionotus evolans strigatus Cuvier.
Abundant at Rehoboth and Iewes.
Lophopsetta maculata Mitchill.
Few at Rehoboth.
Paralichthys dentatusLinnaeus.
Common some large at Rehoboth and Lewes.
TJropliycis regius Walbaum.
Adult and several small ones at Rehoboth.
Lophius piscatoriusLinnseus.
Rehoboth and Lewes.
Maryland.
In late April of 1912 I made several collections in the Choptank and its tributaries about Denton in Caroline County.
A small collection was made in the Pocomoke River near Willards in Wicomico County in May of the same year.
Rather extensive series of freshwater fishes were also secured in the streams of Harford County mostly from Deer Creek at and near the Rocks and in the Gunpowder River in August 1912.
Lepisosteus osseus Linnseus.
I examined one of nine examples from the Passerdyke Creek at Eden Wicomico River basin in Somerset County May 2 1913.
Pomolobus pseudoharengus Wilson.
Choptank River and Gary's Branch near Denton.
Alosa sapidissima Wilson.
Choptank River at Cedar Island and Denton.
AnguiUa chrisypa Rafinesque.
Deer Creek near Sharon and common at the Rocks.
Semotilus atromaculatus Mitchill.
Sharon and the Rocks.
Leuciscus vandoisulus Valenciennes.
The Rocks and Laurel Brook a tributary of the Gunpowder River.
Abramis crysoleucas Mitchill.
Gary's Branch and Choptank River near Denton.
Aydelotte Branch and Pocomoke River near Willards.
Notropis hudsonius amarus Girard.''
Gary's Branch and Choptank River near Denton.
Notropis whipplii analostanus Girard.
The Rocks.
Notropis cornutus Mitchill.
Sharon the Rocks and Clermont Mills.
Notropis chalybaeus Cope.
Abundant in the Pocomoke River and Aydelotte Branch near Willards associated with Abramis and Palcemonetes vulgaris.
Rhinichthys atronasus Mitchill.
The Rocks Clermont Mills and Laurel Brook.
Hybopsis kentuckiensis Rafinesque.
The Rocks Sharon Clermont Mills and Laurel Brook.
Exoglossum maxillingua Le Sueur.
Same as last species.
Catostomus commersonnii LacepMe.
The Rocks and Sharon.
Catostomus nigricans Le Sueur.
Clermont Mills.
Ameiurus catus Linnseus.
Choptank River near Denton.
Ameiurus nebulosus Le Sueur.
Gary's Branch and Choptank River near Denton.
Pocomoke River at Willards.
Schilbeodes insignis Richardson.
The Rocks.
Esox americanus Gmelin.
Aydelotte Branch near Willards.
Esox reticulatus Le Sueur.
Gary's Branch and Choptank River near Denton.
Pocomoke River and Aydelotte Branch near Willards.
Umbra pygmaea De Kay.
Aydelotte Branch near Willards.
Fundulus diaphanus Le Sueur.
Choptank River and Cedar Island near Denton.
Lepomis auritus Linnaeus.
The Rocks Sharon and Clermont Mills.
Eupomotis gibbosus Linnaeus.
Gary's Branch and Choptank River near Denton.
Pocomoke River near Willards.
Perca flavescens Mitohill.
Gary's Branch and Choptank River near Denton.
Boleosoma nigrum olmstedi Storer.
Choptank River at Cedar Island and near Denton.
Morone americana Gmelin.
Gary's Branch Choptank River and Cedar Island near Denton.
