ON CERTAIN VESICLES FOUND IN THE INTEGUMENT OF ANTS.
BY Adele M. FIELDE.
During the years 1900 to 1907 I demonstrated by experiments duly set forth in print that the antennae of the ant are a pair of compound noses certain segments having eadh a special function.
The ants in my formicaries were subject to observation by day and by night all the year round.
The experiments were unhurried very numerous and with adequate material for every series.
No ant that had not manifestly recovered normal health after the required surgical operation was engaged in the service demanded by an experiment.
See b page 425 and j page 215.
 I found that the habitual activities of the ants are guided mainly by diverse odors produced by the ants themselves and discerned through the subnoses of the olfactory organs the funicles of the antennae.
These odors are 1 the odor of the domicile the nest aura made up of the commingled odors of the inhabitants and discerned through the air by the distal segment of the antenna.
The normal ant warned by an alien aura fears and avoids the habitation of any ant community other than her own and she strives to flee or hide when forcibly introduced into the alarming atmosphere of an unknown nest.
But if the twelfth the distal segment is eliminated the ant no longer distinguishes the domiciliary odor and stays fearlessly in See bibliography at conclusion of paper.
the abode of her enemies until her life pays the penalty of her unconscious temerity.
This subnose appears to discern many odors diffused in the air.
See c page 539.
2 It is well known that ants of the same species abide in different colonies or communities so hostile to one another that an encounter between members of different colonies results in a battle often prolonged until one or the other is exterminated.
The undeveloped young of one colony are sometimes stolen and reared by the adults of another colony of the same species but the adults of different colonies ordinarily maintain a mutual repugnance that is invincible no matter how long an artificially enforced companionship may exist.
The colony odor depending on age is discerned through the penultimate segment of the antenna.
When this segment is elmiinated ants of different colonies of the same species live and work together in complete accord.
They are then unaware of the objectionable odor of their comrades as they no longer perceive what the normal ant discerns.
The colony odor is discerned through contact of the antenna with the body of the ant subject to examination.
This eleventh segment is or contains an organ of chemical sense which might be called olfactory or gustatory.
See b page 449 c page 531 d page 609 t page 1.
3 When an ant goes out from her dwelling she lays down from her feet an odorous substance whereby she is guided on her return journey.
She discerns her own scent through the antepenultimate segment of the antenna and through the air.
When this tenth segment is eliminated she is no longer able to retrace her steps and is completely bewildered.
She is as incapable as is a dog in pursuit of a master who has waded.
See c page 522.
But in her case the track remains while power to pick up the scent has been destroyed in the pursuer.
4 The next two segments of the funicle the eighth and ninth counted from the proximal end of the antenna of Stenamma fulvum piceum discern the odor of the queen and of the undeveloped young ordinarily her progeny.
When these segments are eliminated the worker ant that in her normal condition evinced extreme devotion to the welfare of the inactive young and to the queenmother becomes wholly indifferent to all or any of those whom she has heretofore served.
There are indications that the inactive young as well as the queen have a progressive odor appreciable to the workers both by contact and in the air and that the odor is a distinctive one alluring to the workers.
See c page 542 k page 229.
5 The next two segments the sixth and seventh from the proximal end of the antenna discern the odor of ants of alien species always regarded and treated as enemies unless acquaintance has been made in the earliest days of the individual ant's existence.
Prolonged warfare and terrible slaughter often occur between ant colonies of different species.
But if the sixth and seventh segments of the antennae be eliminated ants of different species or even of different subfamilies will live together amicably and will regurgitate food to one another.
I have had representatives of so mamas five different genera living in close fellowship in the same nest.
The specific odor is discerned by contact the antenna being applied to some part of the body of the ant encountered.
See h page 321 k page 229.
The two antennae of the ant are identical in function either one serving the purposes of both.
Among the three or four thousand species of known ants the number of segments in the antennae varies from four to thirteen.
In my work of ascertaining the function of the antennal segments I used mainly Stenamma fulvum piceiim a Myrmicine ant having twelve segments in the antennae.
It is not improbable that further investigation equally painstaking would reveal olfactory functions in other segments than those tested by me.
It is certain however that segments proximal to the sixth do not discern the odors appreciated by the seven at the distal end.
Since the ants have given evidence that they bear in their bodies several different odors they must have glands producing unlike odors.
The nest aura requires no separate apparatus because its creation is effected by the combined odors of the inhabitants of the nest.
The colony odor inherited from the queen and changing with age of the ants demands a means of production that might well be inquired for along the sides of the thorax where the ants so commonly apply a caressing antenna.
The scent that is laid down on the track would probably issue from the feet or legs while the odor of the queen would be produced in some gland that would be no more than rudimentary in the workers.
The diverse specific odors are easily discernible by human nostrils and even an ant may be temporarily deceived by an individual of the enemy's troop painted with the blood of a friend.
There must be glands for producing this odor.
 Many observers have described certain vesicles in the integument of ants as well as of many other insects since Hicks first studied them.
1857 to 1860.
Janet whose work on the anatomy of the ant has been long continued highly skilled and very prolific shows these organs as a pit communicating with the external air by means of a pore.
They have been variously named.
I suggest to myrmeoologists the possibility that these vesicles found in groups or scattered over the body and limbs of the ant may be the producers of the odors borne by the insect and I urge research among Forel's inverted flasks the pits and pegs the plates and pores and all papillae on the ant.
Dr. N. E. Mclndoo of the Bureau of Entomology at Washington D. C has issued two papers one in April 1914 The Olfactory Sense of the Honeij Bee and one in November 1914 The Olfactory Sense of Insects
I venture a few brief comments thereupon.
Dr. Mclndoo quotes Dr. W. M. Wheeler's objection to my discovery that the olfactory organs of an animal may exhibit 'regional differentiations.'
This objection unsupported as it is by physiological tests applied to the ant should influence no investigator.
If there be error in the process of experimentation or flaw in the logic of the deduction the critic should indicate the point of departure from a correct course.
It is true that my statements are unsupported by other observers but lack of support by other observers is a misfortune that necessarily befalls the research worker who makes the earliest observation.
Dr. Mclndoo's iterated statement that his bees were abnormal without definite indication of the cause or kind of abnormality gives no assistance in the formation of a sound judgment concerning the changes due to mutilation. 
Almormality  of some sort is a natural consequent of mutilation.
The question is whether a certain abnormal condition invariably ensues from a particular mutilation.
In those cases where Dr. Mclndoo's surgical operations upon his bees were performed by the pulling apart or the burning off of segments the lesions produced in the adjacent tissues must have been such as to seriously affect the functions of the parts subject to subsequent observation.
The odors of the essential oils used in his experiments must have been diffused through the air and the reaction of the bees normal or abnormal may in many cases have been due to the effect of the odorous particles upon the trachea through the spiracles rather than to their appeal to the sense of smell.
Dr. Mclndoo's experiments and observations appear to me to be confirmatory rather than contradictory of the view of most entomologists that the antennse are the organs of smell in insects.
The evidence he sets forth is far from being convincing of the truth of his final asseveration that the antennse can no longer be regarded as the seat of the sense of smell in insects and equally remote from acceptance should be his conclusion that the organs he chooses to call olfactory pores are the true olfactory apparatus in Hymenoptera 
List of Miss Fielde's Published Papers on Ants.
a Portable Ant Nests.
Biological Bulletin Vol.
II No.
11 September 1900.
6 A Study of an Ant.
Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia July 1901 issued September 4 1901.
f Further Study of an Ant.
Proceedings October 1901 issued November 22 1901.
d Notes on an Ant.
Proceedings September 1902 issued December 4 1902.
e Supplementary Notes on an Ant.
Proceedings June 1903 issued September 4 1903.
 Experiments with Ants induced to Swim.
Proceedings September 1903 issued October 5 1903. ig A Cause of Feud between Ants of the same Species living in different Communities.
Biological Bulletin Vol.
V No.
6 November 1903.
i Artificial Mi.xed Nests of Ants.
Biological Bulletin Vol.
V No.
6 November 1903.
i Observations on Ants in their Relation to Temperature and Submergence.
Biological Bulletin Vol.
VII No.
3 August 1904.
0' Portable Ant Nests.
Biological Bulletin Vol.
VII No.
4 September 1904.
k Power of Recognition among Ants.
Biological Bulletin Vol.
VII No.
5 October 1904.
I Reactions of Ants to material Vibrations.
Proceedings September 1904 issued November 2 1904.
ni Three Odd Incidents in Ant Life.
Proceedings September 1904 issued November 2 1904.
 Tenacitv of Life in Ants.
Biological Bulletin Vol.
VII No.
6 November 1904.'
o The Sense of Smell in Ants.
The Independent August 17 1905.
p How an Ant went to Market and came Home again.
Written October 1905.
In Boys and Girls' Magazine Ithaca New York April 1906.
q Temperature as a Factor in the Development of Ants.
Biological Bulletin Vol.
IX No.
6 November 1905.
r Observations on the Progeny of Virgin Ants.
Biological Bulletin Vol.
IX No.
6 November 1905.
s The Communal Life of Ants.
NatureStudy Review Vol.
I No.
6 November 1905.
t The Progressive Odor of Ants.
Biological Bulletin Vol.
X No.
1 December 1905.
u Longevity of a Velvet Ant.
Biological Bulletin Vol.
XI No.
5 October 1906.
r Suggested Explanations of certain Phenomena in the Lives of Ants.
Biological Bulletin Vol.
XIII No.
3 August 1907.
ir The Nose of an Ant.
Spinning Wheel Magazine Vol.
I No.
2 December 1914.
February 16. c The President Samuel G. Dixon M.D. LL.D. in the Chair.
One hundred persons ijresent.
The deaths of George J. Scattergood July 16 1914 and of Benjamin Sharp M.D. January 23 1915 members were announced.
On the announcement of the death of Dr. Sharp the following was read by the Recording Secretary and ordered to be placed on the minutes The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia desires to place on record its sense of the loss sustained by the society and by the scientific world in the death of Dr. Benjamin Sharp on January 23.
Dr. Sharp graduated in medicine from the University of Pennsylvania in 1879.
He subsequently studied in the Universities of Berlin Leipzig and Wurzburg.
Immediately after securing his degree of Doctor of Philosophy from the last named institution in 1883 he published his first paper in the Proceedings of the Academy a reprint of his graduation thesis on the anatomy of Ancylus
He subsequently iublished twenty communications as contributions to the Proceedings.
They cover a wide range of subjects but are most important perhaps as studies of the visual organs of mollusks.
Dr. Sharp was elected Corresponding Secretary of the Academy in 1890 and served efficiently until 1902.
His work as an attache of the United States Fish Commission as zoologist of the first Peary Arctic Expedition and as professor in the Academy the University of Pennsylvania and in the Central High School together with his explorations of Behring Sea the West Indies and the Sandwich Islands was all prosecuted in direct association with the Academy to which he was always most generous in the expression of his obligation for encouragement and assistance.
Dr. Sharp was endowed with a retentive memory and the faculty of clear and accurate statement.
He was a man of singular personal charm and of an unusual range of sympathy and accomplishment.
A strikingly attractive figure anywhere he was equally at home in a scientific meeting a drawingroom or on the dock with his chums the fishermen.
He retained to the last the qualities of an eager ingenuous boy without any of the disadvantages of immaturity.
Although not intimately associated with the Academy since 1902 his periodical visits sustained his affectionate relations with his fellowmembers and testified to his loyalty to the institution.
The realization of its own loss in the death of Dr. Sharp enables the Academy to appreciate the bereavement of his wife and children to whom is extended its heartfelt sympathy.
Mr. Robert Cushman Murphy spoke on birdlife at an outpost of the Antarctic.
The communication was beautifully illustrated by lantern views.
The Secretary read the following communication from Miss Adele M. Fielde of Seattle Washington Concerning the Sense of Smell in Dogs.
 In the winter of 191112 I spent over four consecutive months in the city of Tucson Arizona lodging in one house and taking my meals in another a quarter of a mile distant.
The street In the residential section of the city traversed by me several times daily was wide with paved walk on both sides in front of detached houses whose owners generally cherished watch dogs.
In my earliest journeys along the sidewalks the dogs of various breeds in their respective shrubby dooryards all barked at me so intentionally as to make me doubt whether existence would be tolerable under such local conditions.
I persisted however in my course as a pedestrian made no acquaintance with the oTiers of the dogs no calls at their residences and no efforts at conciliation of the animals.
Nevertheless the barking of the clogs gradually subsided and then ceased first on the west side of the street that I traversed most frequently and later upon the east side of the street where I walked but seldom.
Some weeks before I left Tucson all the dogs had stopped barking at me during my passage alongside their grounds whether by day or by night.
In the evenings I usually carried a lantern whose light fell upon the pavement without illuminating me.
A small dog resident in the house where I lodged maintained hostilities toward me for several days after my arrival but changed his mental attitude toward me with no conciliation on my part and then habitually gave immoderate expression to his delight whenever I returned to the house.
Such change in the behavior of these clogs indicates that at my earliest coming they perceived an unknown scent either upon the pavement or in the air and resented its intrusion among countless familiar odors.
When accustomed to the intruded scent having received no injury from its bearer they ceased from audible protest against her presence.
Without contact at any time and with darkness and distance often such as to make vision improbable the cause of the behavior of the dogs appears to lie in their sense of smell.
That they could pick up the scent laid down on the pavement was to be expected of them.
That they recognized its depositor in the dark and at a distance of many yards and refrained from any vocal exercise save a monosyllabic assertion of being on duty indicates high olfactory sensitivity.
Joseph C. Guernsey M.D. was elected a member.
The following was ordered to be printed a new classification of the ophiuroidea with descriptions of new genera and species.
by h. matsumoto.
Contents.
PAGE Introductory 43 Subclass I.
Egophiuroida 45 Subclass II.
Myophiuroida 45' Order i. Phrynophiurida 46 Family 1.
Ophiomyxidse 40 Subfamily 1.
Ophiomyxinse 47 Subfamily 2.
Ophiobyrsinse 50 Family 2.
Trichasteridse 51 Subfamily 1.
Asteronychinae 52 Subfamily 2.
Trichasterinse 52 Subfamily 3.
Asteroschematinse 52 Family 3.
Gorgonocephalidse  55 Subfamily 1 .
Gorgonocephalinse 56 Subfamily 2.
Astrotominse 59 Order ii.
Lsemophiurida 61 Family 1.
Ophiacanthidis 62 Family 2.
Hemieuryalidai 65' Subfamily 1.
Ophiochondrina
65 Subfamil 2.
Hemieuryalinaj 66 Order iii.
Gnathophiurida ......
 .. 66 Family 1.
Amphilepididse 66 Family 2.
Amphiuridse 68 Subfamily 1.
Ophiactininte 69 Subfamily 2.
Amphiurimr 69 Family 3.
Ophiotrichida' 74 Order iv.
Chilophiurida 74 Family 1.
Ophiolepididse 75 Subfamily 1.
Ophiomastinse 76 Subfamily 2.
Ophiolepidina '
81 Family 2.
Ophioleucida 83 Family 3.
Ophiodermatidse 83 Subfamily 1.
Ophiarachnina 83 Subfamily 2.
Ophiodermatinse 87 Family 4.
Ophiochitonidse .
88 Subfamily 1.
Ophiochitoninse 88 Subfamily 2.
Ophionereidinaj 90 Family 5.
Ophiocomidae 91 Subfamily 1.
Ophiocominse 92 Subfamily 2.
OphiopsilinEe 92 Introduction.
The present study was undertaken at the suggestion of Prof. Goto of the Imperial University of Tokyo and to him my hearty thanks are due for supervision and the revision of part of the manuscript.
My first purpose was merely to identify and name species.
But I soon found that the classifications of the Ophiuroidea hitherto proposed were very unsatisfactory.
Indeed their imperfectness became a haunt to me so I determined to devise a new classification of my own.
For this purpose I have dissected representatives of as many genera as were accessible and the following are some of the more important results obtained A. Morphological.
 Those forms that have arms capable of being vertically coiled have a very compact oral skeleton the adoral shields are entirely proximal to the oral shield being firmly united to it the oral frames are very stout those of the same radius being firmly joined together the peristomal plates are entire and more or less soldered to the oral frames etc.
 and very short stout vertebrae of which the articulation is streptospondyline with a very rudimentary or no articular peg.
More or less divided vertebrae are found only in certain genera with horizontally flexible arms such vertebrae are of two kinds those which are divided into halves by a single fusiform pore found in forms in which the dorsal side of the arms is more or less unprotected and those in which the two halves are separated by a series of small pores found in forms with the dorsal side of the arms entirely protected.
Forms with quadrangular and stout teeth have oral frames with welldeveloped lateral wings for the attachment of voluminous masticatory muscles etc.
B.
Systematic.
 Astroceras Trichaster and Euryala have a certain common structure by which they may be distinguished from either Aster onyx or Asteroschema Astrotoma and its allies have certain distinctive characters in contrast to Asteroporpa Astrochele Gorgonocephalus Astrocladus and their aUies the Amphiuridae emend.
and the Ophiotrichidae are intimately related by their internal structure 'Ophiactis pars i.e. my Amphiactis is a connecting link between the Ophiacanthidae and Amphiuridae the Ophiolepididae Ophiodermatidae and Ophiocomidae form together another compact group my Ophiochitonidae are not referable to Amphiuridae emend.
but are very near the Ophiodermatidae and Ophiocomidae Ophiopsila is as a matter of fact a near ally of the Ophiocomidae Ophioconis pars i.e. my Ophiuroconis and Ophiurodon and Ophiochceta pars i.e. my Ophiurochata are perfectly distinguishable from Ophiolimna emend.
 by their internal structure etc.
Prefixing so much I now proceed to the.
exposition of my views leaving them to be judged on their merits.
During the present study I have received great help from Dr. Hubert Lyman Clark of the Museum of Comparative Zoology in.
the loan of many precisely determined specimens from that Museum and in helpful advice my best thanks are due to him.
This paper is in fact an outcome of his suggestions.
A more detailed monograph with illustrations will be published ultimately in Japan.
The outbreak of the present war has made it impossible for me toreceive some specimens of Palaeozoic ophiurans promised me by Dr. B. Sttirtz so that I am obliged to defer a revision and classification of Palaeozoic ophiurans to the future.
The greater part of the present study was done in the Zoological Institute of the Imperial University of Tokyo and the type specimens of all the new species described belong to it.
Sendai Japan December 1 1914.
Subclass I. CEGOPHIUROIDA nov. Ophiuroidea with external ambulacral grooves and without ventral arm plates.
Radial shields genital plates and scales oral shields and dorsal arm plates also absent.
Ambulacral plates alternate or opposite in the latter case they may often be soldered in pairs to form the vertebrae.
Adambulacral plates i.e. lateral arm plates subventral.
Madreporite either dorsal or ventral often large and similar in shape to that of an Asteroid.
This subclass consists chiefly of Palaeozoic genera.
The CEgophiuroida lack all the fundamental characters by which Recent ophiurans are clearly distinguished from Asteroids.
Indeed the distinction of the present subclass from the cryptozonial Asteroids depends merely upon the different development of certain common structures.
Subclass II.
MYOPHIUROIDA nov. Ophiuroidea without external ambulacral grooves and with ventral arm plates.
Radial shields genital plates and scales oral shields and dorsal arm plates usually present but sometimes rudimentary or absent.
Ambulacral plates opposite usually completely soldered in pairs to form the vertebrae.
Madreporite represented by one or sometimes all of the oral shields.
This subclass includes certain Palaeozoic forms and all the ophiurans since the Mesozoic.
Order I. PHRYNOPHIURIDA nov.
Disk and arms covered by a skin.
The radial shield and genital plate articulate by means of a simple face or a transverse ridge on either plate without well developed articular condyles and sockets.
Peristomal plates large entire or sometimes double or triple.
Oral frames entire without wellcleveloped lateral wings.
Dorsal arm plates absent or very rudimentary lateral arm plates ventral or sub ventral in position dorsal side of arms largely unprotected.
Key to families of Phrynoiphiurida.
yl Lateral arm plates more or less subventral arm spines not confined to ventral side of arm but lateral or subventral in position vertebrae not very short and stout with not exceedingly stout wings upper and lower muscular fossae of vertebrae rather subequal radial shields smaU or rudimentary Ophiomyxid.e.
A A  Lateral arm plates and arm spines confined to the ventral side of the arm vertebrae very short and stout discoidal with exceedingly stout wings upper muscular fossae of vertebrae extremely large lower very small vertebral articulation typically streptospondyline radial shields long and barlike.
a  Arms without rows of hookbearing granules arm spines covered by thick skin adoral shields very stout Trichasterid.
aa Arms annulated by double rows of hookbearing granules arm spines naked or at most covered by thin skin adoral shields rather small and inconspicuous often separated from oral shields by small supplementary plates Gorgonocephalid.
Family 1.
OPHIOMYXIDuE Ljungman 1866.
Characters as given above in key.
Key to subfamilies of Ophiomyxidce.
A  Oral shields separated from first lateral arm plates by outer lobes of the adoral shields peristomal plates usually double or triple not very thick not firmly fixed to the oral frames which are rather slender vertebrae long and slender except one or two basal ones which are discoidal distal ones usually divided into halves wings of vertebrae not equally thick but distinctly much thinner laterally than dorsally vertebral articulation zygospondyline the articular peg being well developed Ophiomyxine.
A A  Oral shields in contact with first lateral arm plates adoral shields entirely proximal to oral shield peristomal plates entire very thick fused with oral frames which are very stout vertebriE rather short and very stout many proximal ones discoidal none divided into halves wings of vertebrae almost equally thick laterally and dorsally vertebral articulations streptospondyline articular peg very rudimentary or absent OPHiOBYRSiNiB.
Subfamily 1.
OPHIOMYXIN Ljungman 1871 emend..
Characters as given above in key.
This subfamily includes Ophiohelus Ophiosciasma Ophiogeron Astrogeron Ophiocynodus Ophiostyracium Ophiosyzygiis Ophioleptoplax Ophioscolex Neoplax Opkiomora Ophiomyxa Ophiodera Ophiohymen and provisionally Ophiamhix besides two new genera Ophiostiha and Ophiohyalus.
OPHIOSTIBA gen. nov.
Disk covered by a skin containing a number of scattered granules.
Radial shields very rudimentary forming a continuous row with the marginal disk scales which are well developed as in Ophiomyxa Ophiomora and Neoplax.
Teeth and oral papillae present with acute ends.
Arms skincovered dorsal arm plates absent while the lateral arm plates are subventral so that the dorsal side of the arms is largely naked.
Distal vertebrae more or less divided into halves by a longitudinally fusiform pore.
Arm spines few all converted into compound hooks.
Tentacle scales absent.
This new genus differs from Ophioscolex chiefly in the presence of the marginal disk scales and in the conversion of the arm spines into compound hooks and from Neoplax in the fewer arm spines which are converted into compound hooks and in the absence of tentacle scales.
Ophiostiba hidekiii sp.
nov.
Diameter of disk 3.5 mm.
Length of arms 16 mm.
Width of arms at base 0.8 mm.
Disk hexagonal with concave interradial borders covered by a soft skin which contains a number of scattered granules.
Radial shields very rudimentary and insignificant forming a continuous row with the marginal disk scales which are well developed.
Genital slits very small and short.
Oral shields rhomboidal with perfectly rounded outer and lateral angles convex slightly longer than wide each serving as a madre1 Dedicated to the memory of my friend Hideki Chiba who met with an untimely death a few days after assisting me in dredging my material in the Sagami Sea.
porite.
Adoral shields long and narrow but with widened outer ends meeting each other within.
Four or five oral papillae on either side triangular with acute apices.
Teeth stout triangular acute.
Six arms of which three are longer than the other three as an indication of schizogony.
Dorsal arm plates entirely absent dorsal side of vertebrae clearly visible.
Lateral arm plates low meeting below.
First ventral arm plates very small rhomboidal longer than wide the following heptagonal with strongly concave proximolateral and outer sides the former adjoining the tentacle pores much longer than wide widest opposite the outer ends of the tentacle pores calcification very feeble along median line the plates appearing as if longitudinally grooved.
In the outer half of the arm the vertebrse are more or less divided into halves by fusiform pores.
Two or three hyaline arm spines converted into compound hooks with four or five denticles along the abradial side the lowest one is slightly shorter than the upper ones which are about twothirds as long as the corresponding arm joint.
The uppermost spines of either side of successive arm joints are connected by a hyaline weblike membrane except on the basal and most distal joints.
Tentacle pores large without any scale.
Color in alcohol disk deep chocolatebrown except the granules which are white arms brownish yellow.
Two specimens Sagami Sea 300 fathoms.
This new species evidently reproduces by schizogony as indicated by the hetaractiny and the occurrence of six madreporites.
OPHIOHYALUS gen. nov.
Disk covered by a skin with marginal scales.
Radial shields very rudimentary forming a continuous row with the marginal disk scales.
Teeth and oral papillae flattened and serrate like those of Ophiomyxa Ophiodera and Ophiohymen.
Dorsal arm plates present but rudimentary entire thin hyaline separated from each other by naked spaces.
Vertebrae more or less divided into halves.
Arm spines few converted into compound hooks.
Tentacle scales absent.
This new genus is near Ophiomyxa but differs from it in the rudimentary radial shields the divided vertebrae the entire rudimentary dorsal arm plates and the conversion of the arm spines into compound hooks.
In almost all characters Ophiohyalus is more embryonal than Ophiomyxa.
Ophiohyalus gotoi sp.
nov.
Diameter of disk 9 mm.
Length of arms 28 mm.
Width of arms at base 1 mm.
Disk pentagonal with concave interradial borders very fiat covered by a thin skin.
Marginal disk scales present feeble.
Radial shields rudimentary and insignificant forming a continuous row with the marginal disk scales.
Genital slits small and short extending from outer end of adoral shield to that of second lateral arm plate.
Oral shields triangular with perfectly rounded lateral angles outer side slightly concave two and a half times as wide as long.
Adoral shields large triangular very long acutely tapered inwards but not meeting.
Oral plates long and narrow.
The space encircled by the oral and adoral shields and oral plates is strongly depressed.
Three or four oral papillse on either side thin hyaline serrate along the free edge.
Two or three short wide flattened teeth with rounded and finely serrate ends.
Deep in the oral slit on either side of each jaw there occurs one conical rough papilla which protects the first oral tentacle pore.
Arms slender covered by a very thin transparent skin.
Dorsal arm plates small oval thin hyaline longer than wide wider within than without separated from each other by naked spaces the lie over the distal parts of the vertebrae of the corresponding arm joints and become very small and delicate towards the extremity of the arm.
Lateral arm plates low slightly flaring successive plates not in contact with each other but separated by a naked space which is widened upwards and continued into a large naked space bounded by the dorsal and lateral arm plates and the vertebra.
First ventral arm plate not very small quadrangular with strongly curved outer side much wider without than within those beyond nearly rhomboidal in outline with a conspicuous reentrant notch at outer end and a half pore for the tentacle at each lateral angle much longer than wide widest opposite outer ends of tentacle pores successive plates not in contact with each other except within the disk.
The lateral arm plates do not however meet each other in the ventral median line so that there is left here a naked depressed space which is especially wellmarked near the extremity of the arm.
Except within the disk and at the very base of arms the vertebrae are more or less or entirely divided into halves by fusiform pores which become larger and longer in the more distal part of the arm.
Arm spines two sub ventral unequal glassy all converted into compound hooks with a series of booklets along their ventral side covered by a thin transparent skin the lower one is much larger and longer than the upper.
On some basal arm joints there occurs on the lateral arm plate one more spine which is placed on the dorsal margin of the plate and also bears a series of booklets on one side it is larger and longer than the other two and nearly as long as the corresponding arm joint.
No tentacle scale.
Color in alcohol yellowish white.
Two specimens probably Sagami Sea.
Subfamily 2.
OPHIOBYRSIN nov. Characters as given in key p 46.
This subfamily includes Ophiobyrsa Ophiohyr sella Ophiophrixus Ophiobrachion and provisionally Ophioschiza besides a new genus Ophiosmilax.
The Ophiobyrsinse rather approach the next two families in skeletal characters.
OPHIOSMILAX gen. nov.
Disk and arms covered by a thick skin.
Radial shields very rudimentary and insignificant.
Single oral papilla on either side and two or three dental papillae at the apex of each jaw.
Teeth in a single vertical series.
Teeth and papillae all alike stout stumpy conspicuously thorny at tips.
Second oral tentacle pores open outside oral slits each provided with a thorny stumpy papilla which arises from adoral shield.
Dorsal arm plates absent while the lateral arm plates are subventral so that the dorsal side of the arms is merely covered by a naked skin.
Ventral arm plates welldeveloped in contact with each other.
Vertebrae short and very stout.
Vertebral articulation streptospondyline the articular peg being entirely absent.
Arm spines few converted into compound hooks.
No tentacle scale.
This new genus more or less resembles Ophiophrixus in the total absence of dorsal arm plates but differs from it in the rudimentary radial shields in the peculiarities of teeth and papillae and in the conversion of arm spines into compound hooks.
The last character reminds us of Ophiobrachion but Ophiosmilax has no disk spines while it does have peculiai teeth and papillae and fewer and longer arm spines.
Ophiosmilax mirabilis sp.
nov.
Diameter of disk 2 mm.
Length of arms 12 mm.
Width of arms 0.8 mm.
Disk pentagonal with concave interbrachial borders covered by a thick skin which contains very fine thin transparent scales.
Radial shields rudimentary and insignificant lying on the disk margin.
Genital slits very small and short.
Oral shields triangular with convex outer border.
Adoral shields large quadrangular meeting within.
Oral slits short fairly closed up.
Single oral papilla on either side short stumpy conspicuously thorny at tip turned up ventrally instead of projecting towards oral slit.
Two or three dental papillae at apex of each jaw similar in shape and in size to oral papilla also turned up ventrally.
Teeth in a single vertical series stout stumpy thorny at tips.
Second oral tentacle pores open outside oral slits each provided with a stumpy and thorny papilla which arises from adoral shield.
Arms stout in comparison with the small disk covered by a thick naked skin.
Dorsal arm plates absent.
Lateral arm plates subventral strongly flaring.
First ventral arm plate large quadrangular with rounded angles slightly longer than wide much wider without than within those beyond also large hexagonal proximal and proximolateral sides very short distal and distolateral sides long outer angles perfectly rounded as long as or slightly longer than wide feebly calcified and transparent except the outer and lateral margins where the calcification is complete and opaque.
Vertebrae short and very stout with streptospondyUne articulation the articular shoulder and umbo being very stout while the articular peg is entirely absent.
Arm spines two or three lying flat on the arm all converted into compound hooks hyaline the uppermost two are subequal about twothirds as long as corresponding arm joint while the lowest one is about half as long as the same.
The smaller spines have two or three booklets which lie in one plane while the larger ones have six or seven booklets which lie in two divergent planes.
Tentacle pores small without scales.
Color in alcohol brownish yellow.
One specimen Sagami Sea 300 fathoms.
Family 2.
TRIOHASTERIDJE Doderlein 1911 emend..
Characters as given in key p.
46.
Key to subfamilies of Trichasteridce.
A  More than three arm spines madreporite single ASTERONYCHIN.
A A  Two arm spines all oral shields serving as madreporites.
a  Lateral arm plates of opposite sides separated from each other by the ventral arm plates distal ones projecting ventrally like hanging rods arm spines subequal perihsemal canal and genital bursse communicating with each other Trichasterin.
aa  Lateral arm plates of opposite sides meeting each other in the ventral median line distal ones not projecting ventrally like hanging rods arm spines unequal the adradial one being much larger and longer than the abradial and often clavate perihsemal canal and genital bursse not in communication arms simple Asteroschematin.
Subfamily 1.
ASTERONYCHIN nov.
Disk very large arms very slender and unbranched.
A single madreporite is present.
Perihsemal canal entirely closed.
Peritoneal cavity divided into five compartments by the interradial attachments of the gastral pouches to body wall.
Genital bursse separated from the perihsemal canal and the peritoneal cavity but the pairs of the same radius communicating with each other the communication passing above the outer end of the oral frames and the first vertebra just outside the perihsemal canal.
Lateral arm plates of opposite sides separated by the comparatively large ventral arm plates.
Arm spines 38.
This subfamily includes Asteronyx and Astrodia.
Subfamily 2.
TRICHASTERIN.E nov. Characters as given above in key.
This subfamily includes Ophiuropsis Astroceras Trichaster Sthenocephalus and Euryala.
Subfamily 3.
ASTEROSCHEMATINE Doderlein 1911 emend..
Characters as given above in key.
This subfamily includes Asteroschema including Ophiocreas and Astrocharis.
Asteroschema tubiferum Matsumoto.
1911 Dobuts.
Z. Tokyo 23 p. 617 in Japanese.
This species strongly resembles A. rubrum Lyman but differs chiefly in the much coarser granules of the arm bases in having tentacle tubes for some ten basal tentacles and in the relatively longer and stouter arm spines.
Three or four granules lie in 1 mm.
on the dorsal side of the free arm base.
Oral tentacle pores as well as tentacle pores of some ten basal arm joints open by means of cuticular tubes each of which except that of the oral tentacle and the first arm tentacle is attached to the adradial arm spine on its adradial side.
The arm spines become longer and stouter distally till the adradial one is distinctly clavate and is about twice as long as the correspondin' arm joint.
The color is light pinkish brown in alcohol.
The type specimen is 16 mm.
in disk diameter 230 mm.
in arm length and 4.5 mm.
in arm width at base.
Two specimens Okinose a submarine bank Sagami Sea.
One specimen Sagami Sea.
Asterosohema glaucum Matsumoto.
1911 Dobuts.
Z. Tokyo 23 p. 617 in Japanese.
This species is near A. salix Lyman but differs from it in coarser granules on disk and arm bases in stouter arm bases in much shorter arm spines and in oral tentacles being enclosed in tubes.
About six granules lie in 1 mm.
on the radial ribs and free arm bases.
Arms very stout at base as high as wide.
Arm spines longer and stouter outwards till the adradial one is somewhat clavate and is slightly longer than the corresponding arm joint.
Oral tentacles enclosed in tubes.
First two or three tentacle pores also provided with tubes though rudimentary.
The color is pale gray in alcohol.
The type specimen is 11 mm.
in disk diameter 100 mm.
in arm length and 4' mm.
in arm width at base.
Three specimens Sagami Sea 110 fathoms.
Asterosohema hemigymnum Matsumoto.
1912 Dobuts.
Z. Tokyo 24 p. 381 in Japanese  fig.s.
3 4.
Diameter of disk 10 mm.
Length of arms 120 mm.
Width of arms at base 3 mm.
Disk rather flat divided into ten lobes corresponding to the radial ribs by ten radiating furrows covered by a skin which contains very fine smooth closeset granules.
Ventral interbrachial areas rather vertical narrow forming a deep notch on the floor of which opens one madreporic pore.
Genital slits rather short more or less divergent dorsally.
Ventral surface of disk covered by a finely and rather sparsely granulated skin.
Oral angles not markedly set off from the outer parts.
Six or seven teeth arranged in a single vertical row triangular very stout.
On either side of the oral angles there are several coarse flat smooth pavementlike grains which correspond to oral papillae.
Arms very stout for the first three or four free joints but becoming rather slender further out their width just outside the fourth free joint is 2.5 mm.
They constantly taper outwards so that they are exceedingly slender towards the extremities which are very acute.
Dorsal and lateral surface of the arms covered by a skin which is similar to that of the disk containing very fine smooth closeset granules of which there are about five in 1 mm.
on the dorsal surface of the arm bases.
The granules become much finer outwards and almost disappear near extremity of arm.
Vertebrae visible through skin but surface of arm practically smooth and without distinct demarcation of joints except of first three or four which are marked off by shallow constrictions.
Ventral surface of arms entirely naked and lateral and ventral arm plates clearly visible through skin.
First tentacle pore unprotected next four or five pores provided with a single arm spine and the rest with two.
Abradial spine very small cylindrical enclosed in skin more or less rough at free end.
Adradial one clavate enclosed in skin very rough at free end.
Arm spines largest at middle of arm the adradial one being one and a half times as long as and the abradial one a little shorter than the corresponding arm joint.
They are transformed into compound hooks with three to six booklets towards the very extremity of the arm.
Oral tentacle pore and first three or four tentacle pores provided with tubes.
Color in alcohol grayish brown.
One specimen Sagami Sea.
Like A. intedum layman and A. migrator Koehler this species appears to be an intermediate form between the sections Asteroschema s.
str. and Ophiocreas.
Astrocharis ijimai Matsumoto.
1911 Dobuts.
Z. Tokyo 23 p. 617 in Japanese.
Diameter of disk 4.5 mm.
Length of arms 50 mm.
Width of arms at base 2.5 mm.
Disk fivelobed with deeply indented interbrachial borders with lobes emarginate towards arms flat sunken at the central region raised at the lobes covered with very fine smooth irregular scales which are very closeset and partly imbricated.
Radial shields naked very small triangular with apex turned within tuberculous when examined under a microscope.
Ventral interbrachial areas with very deep notches exceedingly narrowed by the very wide arm bases.
Two genital slits small parallel nearly vertical.
On either side of each lobe of the disk lies the naked genital plate which is large oval and tuberculous under a microscope.
Oral angles puffed laterally almost filling up the oral slits.
Teeth small triangular arranged in a single vertical row.
No oral or dental papillae.
Arms very wide at base keeping the same width for a distance of about 4 or 5 mm. then rather rapidly narrowed becoming slender and cyhndrical with a width of about 1 mm.
 covered with fine scales similar to those of the disk.
Arm joints invisible in the proximal part of the arm but more or less distinct distally.
First tentacle pore free of arm spines those beyond provided with a single spine which is very small short peglike somewhat flattened rough at the end as seen under a microscope lying flat on the ventral surface of the arm.
Half way out on the arm each tentacle pore is provided with two spines of which the second or abradial one is exceedingly small and rather inconspicuous the adradial one then becomes a little longer and erect to the arm.
Color in alcohol  white or pale yellow.
Numerous specimens Sagami Sea.
In smaller specimens the arms are scarcely widened at the base which is also the case in regenerating ones for schizogony takes place in this species as in the genotype A. virgo Koehler.
Most specimens are fivearmed but the arms are often unequal two or three being larger than the others.
I have however one specimen with six arms three larger and three smaller.
In fourarmed specimens two or three arms may be larger and the other two or one smaller.
Still another specimen has only three arms doubtless indicating that it has lately undergone division and that the lost parts have not been regenerated.
Family 3.
QORGONOCEPHALID Doderlein 1911.
Characters as given in key p.
46.
Key to subfamilies of Gorgonocephalidoe  .
A  Teeth dental papillae and oral papillse all similar spiniform oral angles not strongly projected ventrally genital slits small often porelike lying near the disk border basal vertebrae not very small not covered over by the muscles between the basal vertebrae and genital plates GoRGONOCEPHALINiE.
.ATeeth and dental papillae similar spiniform oral papillae absent or at least extremely reduced genital slits large extending nearly from the inner corners of the interbrachial ventral surfaces to the disk margin basal vertebrae very small covered over by the muscles which connect the basal vertebrae and genital plates Astrotomin.
Key to subfamilies of Gorgonocephalidce II.
A  Arms simple or branched a few times.
a  Teeth dental papillae and oral papillae all well developed oral and adoral shields in direct contact with each other without supplementary plates in the oral region GORGONOCEPHALINiE parS.
aa  Teeth and dental papillae well developed but oral papillae absent or very rudimentary oral and adoral shields separated from each other by a mosaic of supplementary plates AsTROTOMINiE.
A A  Arms branched many times teeth dental papillae and oral papillae all well developed oral and adoral shields separated from each other by a mosaic of supplementary plates GoRGONOCEPHALINvE pars.
Subfamily 1.
GORGONOCEPHALINiE Doderlein 1911 emend..
Characters as given above in keys.
This subfamily includes Astrogotnphus Astrochele Astrochlamys Asteroporpa Astrocnida Conocladus Astroconus Gorgonocephalus Astrodendrum Astrocladus Astrospartus Astroboa Astrophytum Ophiocrene Astrochalcis Astrogordius Astrocyclus Astrocaneum and Astrodactylus.
Astrocladus annulatus Matsumoto.
Aslrophyton annulatum 1912.
Dobuts.
Z. Tokyo 24 p. 206 in Japanese  figs.
17 18.
Astrocladus annulatus 1912.
Dobuts.
Z. Tokyo 24 p. 389.
Diameter of disk 22 mm.
Distance from centre of disk to interradial margin 8.5 mm.
Distance from outer end of oral slit to first bifurcation of arm 11 mm.
Arms branched nineteen or twentj times measuring about 125 mm.
in total length.
Width of ventral side of arm base within disk 4.5 mm.
Disk fivelobed with concave interbrachial borders covered by a thick skin which is apparently smooth but contains fine closeset granules of microscopic size.
On the radial ribs these granules are flattened pavementlike and coarser being even visible to the naked eye.
Several smooth hemispherical tubercles are scattered on the disk.
Radial ribs gently raised forming rounded ridges with rather indistinct outlines not quite reaching to the disk centre their back is marked with concentrically arranged swellings corresponding to the imbricating soldered plates of which the radial shield is composed.
The ventral surface of the disk appears smooth to the naked eye.
Genital slits not very large.
Madreporic shield single at inner corner of a ventral interbrachial area small transversely oval.
Teeth and dental papillae conical and rather stout.
Oral papillae and lower dental papillae smaller and very short.
Arms slender and branched with distinction of trunk and lateral branch even at the base  covered on dorsal side by a finely and closely granulated skin with several scattered smooth hemispherical tubercles on the more proximal shafts distinctly annulated with hookbearing segments throughout.
Ventral surface of arms entirely smooth.
Arm spines which are present beyond first bifurcation very fine and three or four in number at each tentacle pore.
Color in alcohol disk mottled and arms annulated with yellowish and grayish brown.
One specimen Sagami Sea.
This species can be easily distinguished from other species of Astrodadus by the entirely smooth disk covering and by the arms which are distinctl3 annulated with hookbearing segments even at the very base.
Astroboa arctos sp.
nov.
Diameter of disk 65 mm.
Distance from centre of disk to interradial margin 25 mm.
Distance from outer end of oral slit to first bifurcation 32 mm.
Arms branched about thirtyseven times measuring approximately 420 mm.
in total length.
Width of ventral surface of arm base within disk 17 mm.
Disk decagonal with concave interbrachial and brachial borders the former being longer and more concave than the latter very high and convex but with more or less depressed central region covered by a thick skin which is shagreened by the presence of very fine closeset granules.
The granules are smooth not acute irregular in size when viewed under a microscope the coarser ones being more numerous on the radial ribs than in the intercostal spaces.
Radial ribs long narrow barlike widest at outer end suddenly narrowed for a very short distance then uniformly tapered inwards nearly reaching diskcentre.
Ventral interbrachial areas covered by thick apparently smooth skin which however contains fine microscopical granules.
Genital slits rather large adradial border protected by a cluster of closeset spinules.
Madreporic shield situated at inner angle of a ventral interbrachial area more or less semilunar with semicircular inner and distinctly notched outer side and rounded lateral angles.
Areas proximal to ventral interbrachial regions apparently smooth but closely covered with very fine granules of microscopic size the granules being rather coarse and distinct at the oral angles.
Teeth and papillae very numerous oral and dental papillae rather small spiniform and not very acute teeth much larger and longer than papillae distinctly spatulated and flattened at tip.
Two main stems outside the first bifurcation of an arm are not equally developed but one is longer stouter and more branched than the other.
Dorsal and lateral surface of arms covered by a thick skin which is very finely and closely granulated granules irregular in size and roughly distinguished as of two kinds finer ones entirely covered by skin flat irregularly polygonal forming together a sort of mosaic coarser ones coarser than any granules of disk hemispherical tuberclelike and uniformly scattered.
Ventral surface of arms apparently smooth but covered by a mosaic of flat and irregularly polygonal granules of microscopic size.
First pair of tentacle pores distinct opening in slight depressions second often distinct following three or four pairs entirely invisible those beyond are again distinct.
Arm spines absent on proximal joints but occur from fourth or fifth bifurcation outwards.
They are exceedingly minute and granulelike two to four of them occurring at each tentacle pore.
The double rows of hookbearing granules are present only on very fine twigs the main stems within fourteenth or fifteenth bifurcation being free from them.
The shaft between the first and second bifurcations usually consists of four arm joints the outer shafts consist of six to eight usually seven joints.
Color in alcohol as well as when dry dark grayish brown above and dark yellowish brown below.
Two specimens off Misaki Marine Biological Station 510 fathoms.
Four specimens Sagami Sea.
Among the five known species of Astrohoa A. clcwata Lyman is distinguished from the others by the spiny granules of the disk and arms and A. globifera Doderlein by the position of the madreporic shield.
A. nuda Lyman and A. nigra Doderlein have distinct annulations of hookbearing granules on the arms throughout while A. ernos Doderlein has no such annulations on the greater proximal part of the arms.
So that the present species is near A. ernce but differs from it in the much finer and less distinct granules of the disk and arms and in the less numerous arm joints composing a shaft.
In the last character A. arctos rather resembles A. nigra from Zanzibar and from Hirado Strait.
This species is common in the shallow waters around Misaki occurring together with Astrocladus conijerus especially var.
dofleini A. dofleini Doderlein is in my opinion conspecific with A. coniferus Doderlein being however a variety of the latter.
According to present knowledge Astrohoa is represented in the Sagami Sea by A. globifera and the present species in deep and shallow water respectively.
Subfamily 2.
ASTROTOMINiE nov. Characters as given in keys p.
55.
This subfamily includes Astrothrombus Astrothorax Astrotoma and Astroclon besides a new genus Astrothamnus.
Astrothamnus gen. nov.
Disk divided into ten radiating lobes by radial and interradial furrows closely covered with coarse granules or stumpy tubercles which are acute or thorny at tips.
Ventral interradial areas strongly concave with large long more or less parallel genital slits.
Teeth and dental papillae similar spiniform forming a cluster at the apex of each jaw.
Oral papillae absent so that the sides of the oral slits are naked.
Arms simple distinctly annulated by zones of densely set minute compound hooks the interannuli are covered with coarse granules which are arranged more or less clearly in two series.
Arm spines 35 peglike usually rough at tips serving as tentacle scales.
This genus includes Koehler's Astrotoma hellator A. vecors and A. rigens besides the genotype Astrothamnus ecJmiaceus sp.
nov. Astrothamnus is distinguished from genuine Astrotoma as follows A  Disk covered with coarse granules or stumpy tubercles which are acute or thorny at tip arms annulated by conspicuous zones of densely set compound hooks interannuli of arms covered with coarse granules which are arranged more or less clearly in two series Astrothamnus.
AA  Disk covered with very fine smooth granules often beset with a number of smooth stumpy tubercles arms rather inconspicuously annulated each annulus consisting of four rows of granules the middle two hookbearing while the others are smooth interannuli covered by a pavement of very fine granules among which many oval sunken plates are present Astrotoma restr.
In the arm coverings Astrothamnus is similar to Astrothrombus and Astrothorax while Astrotojna restr. resembles Astroclon.
Thus the Astrotominae fall naturally into two groups one of which includes the first three genera and the other the last two.
Astrothamnus echinaceus Matsumoto.
Astrotoma echinacea 1912.
Dobuts.
Z. Tokyo 24 p. 200 in Japanese figs.
68.
Diameter of disk 22 mm.
Length of arms 140 mm.
Width of arms at base 4 mm.
Disk distinctly fivelobed by five interradial furrows each lobe being again divided into two secondary lobes by the radial furrow.
Radial ribs much raised large occupying almost the whole dorsal surface of disk but leaving between them ten narrow furrows radiating from the centre closely covered with rather large stumpy tubercles with thorny crowns between which lie thick irregularly polygonal plates.
Ventral interbrachial areas strongly concave closely covered with stumpy tubercles terminating with one or a few thorny points.
Genital slits rather large more or less parallel.
Madreporic shield small irregular in outline.
Areas proximal to ventral interbrachial regions closely covered with spiny stumpy tubercles.
Oral angles ventrally projected covered with conical and acute tubercles which become near mouth more or less indistinguishable from dental papillae.
Teeth and dental papillae similar conical very acute.
Oral papillae absent sides of oral angles naked.
Arms rather slender long uniformly tapered outwards distinctly annulated by double rows of coarse granules which are entirely covered with densely set minute compound hooks interannuli covered with coarse smooth granules arranged in two irregular rows.
Ventrolaterally on either side of arm in line with interannuli there is a series of large round smooth plates.
At the arm bases the hookcovered annuli are usually broken in the dorsal median line by conical granules terminating with one or a few thorny points.
Ventral side of arms with rather wellspaced tubercles which are conical or terminate with one or a few thorny points these tubercles become rounded and smooth distally.
First and second tentacle pores free of arm spines third with one or two spines fourth with two or three remainder with three.
Arm spines of basal joints more or less indistinguishable from conical or thorned tubercles but remainder peglike nearly as long as corresponding arm joint and bearing two or three denticles at tip.
Oral tentacle pores as well as first and second arm tentacle pores open by means of short tubes which bear a few spinules on the sides.
Color in alcohol dull grayish purple.
Two specimens Sagami Sea.
In Koehler's species vecors and rigens the brachial ventral surfaces are smooth and the oral angles as well as the spaces just proximal to the ventral interbrachial areas are provided with slender spines while in A. bellator Koehler as well as in the present species the brachial ventral surfaces oral angles and the oral spaces referred to are provided with coarse stumpy granules or tubercles.
The present species however differs from A. bellator in fewer and distinctly longer arm spines and in the presence of a series of large plates on either side of each arm.
Astrotoma Lyman non Koehler.
As I have referred Koehler's three species which he placed in Astrotoma to Astrothamnus Astrotoma restr. now includes A. agassizi Lyman A. murrayi Lyman A. sobrina Matsumoto and A. waitei Benham the first being the genotype.
Astrotoma sobrina Matsumoto.
1912 Dobuts.
Z. Tokyo 24 p. 199 in Japanese.
Astrotoma murrayi Doderlein non layman 1879 Abh.
Math.Phys.
Kl.
K. Bayer.
Akad.
Wiss. Suppl.Bd.
I 1911 p. 23 fig.
1 PI.
VI figs.
1 and la PI.
VII figs.
14146.
Though the present Japanese form was identified as A. murrayi by Doderlein I have failed to find any specimen from Japan that strictly corresponds to Lyman's description and figures of the Moluccan species so that I am olliged to look upon the Japanese form as distinct from A. murrayi.
It differs from that species in the much shorter arms in the narrower brachial lobes of the disk narrower outwards than inwards in the longer genital slits in the fewer and larger stumpy tubercles in the spaces just proximal to the ventral interbrachial areas and in the comparatively fewer arm spines.
The type specimen measures 34 mm.
across disk and 200 mm.
in arm length while A. murrayi is described as 29 mm.
across the disk and 280 mm.
in arm length.
The brachial lobes of the disk are not so wide as in A. murrayi and are narrower outwards than inwards instead of the reverse.
The genital slits extend from the inner corners of the ventral interbrachial areas nearly to the disk margin.
The spaces just proximal to the ventral interbrachial areas are beset with a few large stumpy tubercles instead of numerous small ones.
First tentacle pore free of arm spines second with one or two third two or three fourth three or four and succeeding four or sometimes three.
In A. murrayi four or sometimes five arm spines are present at each tentacle pore even on the very basal arm joints.
However A. sobrina is very close to A. murrayi the covering of the disk and arms being quite similar in the two species.
But I consider that this similarity is generic rather than specific as I have observed that the arm covering of the genotype A. agassizi is also precisely similar to that of the present species.
Five specimens Sagami Sea.
Order ii.
LEMOPHIURIDA nov.
Radial shield and genital plate articulate with each other by means of a transverse ridge or a simple facet on either plate without welldeveloped articular condyles and sockets.
Peristomal plates large usually entire.
Oral frames entire without welldeveloped lateral wings.
Dorsal arm plates often very small while the lateral arm plates are very well developed those of opposite sides usually meeting both above and below.
Key to families of Lcemophiurida.
A  Disk and arms delicate and slender disk scales or plates as well as arm plates not very stout genital plate and scale of either side of a radius articulate with each other instead of being soldered together vertebrae not very stout distal ones often incompletely divided longitudinally by a series of pores OPHIACANTHIDiE.
A A  Disk and arms very heavy disk and arm plates very stout genital plate and scale of either side of a radius firmly soldered together vertebrae very stout Hemieuryalide.
Family 1.
OPHIAOANTHIDiE Perrier 1891 Verrill 1899.
Characters as given above in key.
This family includes Ophiotholia Ophiornyces Ophiologimus Ophiophrura Ophiotoma Ophiohlenna Ophiocymhium Ophiopora Ophiotrema Ophiomedea Ophiopristis Ophiolimna Microphiura Ophiomitrella Ophioscalus Ophiocopa Ophiacantha Ophiacanthella Ophiolehes Ophiochondrella Ophiothamnus Ophiomytis Ophioplinthaca Ophiomitra Ophiocamax etc.
Ophiacantha bisquamata sp.
nov.
Diameter of disk 6 mm.
Length of arms 34 mm.
Width of arms at base 1.5 mm.
Disk pentagonal with nearly straight or slightly convex interbrachial borders closely covered with fine granules of which eight or nine lie in 1 mm.
Radial shields entirely concealed very small barlike separated from each other.
Ventral interbrachial areas similar to the dorsal side but proximally free of granules and covered with fine scales.
Genital slits long nearly reaching the disk margin.
Oral shields small rhomboidal with convex inner sides and rounded outer angle nearly as long as or slightly longer than wide in contact with the first lateral arm plates.
Adoral shields small triangular pointed inwards meeting each other.
Five or six oral papillae on either side of each jaw the outermost two are flat and leaf like protecting the second oral tentacle pore the others are very narrow and acute the innermost one which pairs with that of the other side is infradental.
Four or five teeth in a single vertical row more or less stout obtuse.
Arms composed of rather short and wide joints uniformly tapered.
Dorsal arm plates rhomboidal with very obtuse inner angle wider than long with a more or less distinct median keel so that the dorsal side of the arm is keeled as a whole.
Lateral arm plates with prominent spine ridges meeting neither Above or below.
First ventral arm plate very small quadrangular with concave inner side longer than wide those following moderately large pentagonal with convex but slightly notched outer side and rounded outer angles nearly as long as wide.
Six arm spines long flattened more or less curved truncate translucent not serrate uppermost or upper second spine longest about twice and a half as long as corresponding arm joint lowest one shortest slightly longer than arm joint.
Two oval thin leaflike tentacle scales to each pore.
Color in alcohol disk grayish brown with or without white patches on dorsal side at insertion of arm bases arms banded with grayish brown and white.
The grayish brown and white in alcohol correspond in life to dark green and vivid red respectively.
Two specimens off Oshima Sagami Sea 7585 fathoms.
OpMothamnus venustus sp.
nov.
This species is very near Ophiomitra habrotata H. L. Clark but I have some doubt as to the identity of the two species since certain differences are observable between them as now known.
The present species has fine acute scattered spines on the disk without any of the large conspicuous spines characteristic of 0. habrotata.
The arm spines of the present species are eight to ten in number to each lateral arm plate on free basal arm joints.
Numerous specimens off Inatori Izu Sagami Bay.
The internal structure of the present species is quite similar to those of the genotype 0. vicarius Lyman the peristomal plates being triple the genital plates situated above the basal vertebrae the genital scales absent and the generative glands lined by an unfolded membrane which contains fine scales as seen under a microscope.
The species referred to Ophiothamnus by modern systematists are of a type not considered Ophiothamnus by Lyman while certain species which are quite congeneric with Lyman's type of the present genus have been referred to other genera.
For examples Ophioleda minima and Ophioplinthaca occlusa of Koehler and Ophiomitra habrotata H. L. Clark are in my opinion genuine Ophiothamnus while Ophiomitra exigua Lyman referred to Ophiothamnus by Verrill Ophiomitra dicycla H. L. Clark Ophiothamnus Icevis Lutken and Mortensen and Ophiothamnus stultus Koehler are not genuine Ophiothamnus but belong to a distinct type which awaits a name being more or less related to Ophiomytis and Ophioplinthaca.
Ophiolebes tuberosus sp.
nov.
Diameter of disk 10 mm.
Length of arms 38 mm.
Width of arms at base 1.5 mm.
Disk fivelobed with strongly concave interbrachial borders deeply hollowed at the central region covered by a thick cereous skin which contains wellspaced thick rounded scales of various sizes beset with several short conical stout obtuse tubercles which are larger and more numerous on the radial shields.
Radial shields also covered by the skin long narrow barlike strongly raised about twothirds as long as the disk radius.
Ventral interbrachial areas covered by a skin similar to that of the dorsal side the scales and tubercles being however smaller.
Genital slits large long but not reaching disk margin.
Oral shields small thick rhomboidal wider than long with wide rounded outer angle and convex surface.
Adoral shields large quadrangular with perfectly rounded outer angles and strongly convex surface wider without than within meeting each other.
Between each pair of oral plates occurs a more or less distinct buccal pore.
Three or sometimes four oral papillsB on either side conical and blunt inner ones smaller outermost papilla very large and stout.
Oral papillae project laterally beyond radial axis and those on opposite sides of each oral slit are placed alternately.
Teeth conical stout obtuse.
Arms slender covered by a thin cereous skin.
Dorsal arm plates two to each joint proximal plate small quadrangular wider than long with a convex surface on distal part of arm it becomes longer than wide distal plate large fanshaped much wider than long and with a convex surface.
Dorsal side of arm bases covered by continuation of disk covering so that it bears thick rounded scales of various sizes in place of dorsal arm plates.
Lateral arm plates somewhat flaring meeting below for a short distance.
First ventral arm plate comparatively large hexagonal with concave inner side and convex surface widest at the lateral angles as long as or slightly longer than wide in contact with the next plate the latter is the largest of all pentagonal widest at lateral angles as long as or slightly longer than wide with convex surface and a conspicuous notch in distal margin following plates separated from each other rhomboidal with a conspicuous notch in distal margin with strongly convex surface distally they become smaller oval or rounded and the surface is so convex that they appear Hke hemispherical tubercles.
Arm spines five in number on proximal joints but four distally they are conical blunt solid terete dorsal ones longer and stouter uppermost about one and a half times and lowest about twothirds as long as corresponding arm joint.
Tentacle scales absent.
Color in alcohol yellowish brown.
Numerous specimens Okinose a submarine bank Sagami Sea.
In younger specimens the skin which covers the disk and arms is very thick and the buccal pores are often indistinct.
Family 2.
HEMIEURYALIDE Verrill 1899 emend..
Characters as given in key p.
62.
Key to subfamilies of HemieuryalidcB.
A  Dorsal arm plates entire without supplementary plates lateral arm plates usually in contact above and below five to eight arm spines moderately long conical no proper tentacle scales but lowest arm spine may serve as one Ophiochondrin.
AA  Dorsal arm plates often accompanied by secondary plates or replaced by a mosaic of small plates lateral arm plates usually separated above and below three arm spines and one tentacle scale all very short and flat Hemieuryalin.
Subfamily 1.
OPHIOCHONDRIN Verrill 1899 emend..
Characters as given above in key.
This subfamily includes Ophiochondrus Ophiomoeris and Ophiogyptis.
Ophiomoeris projecta sp.
nov.
This species closely resembles Ophioceramis f ohstricta Lyman  Ophiomoeris ohstricta Koehler 1904  Ophiurases obstrictus Clark 1911 but differs in two important points.
The radial shields are distinctly joined in pairs distally for half their length.
A number of large prominent spherical tubercles are present on the disk irregularly arranged along the distal margin of the radial plates along the joining line of each pair of radial shields and often also along the outer borders of the same.
In the last character the present species reminds us of Ophiogyptis nodosa.
The type specimen measures 4 mm.
across the disk 13 mm.
in the arm length and 1.5 mm.
in the arm width at base.
Color in alcohol disk gray arms banded with grayish browTi and white.
Two specimens off Ukishima Uraga Channel 300 fathoms.
One specimen off Ujishima Osumi.
5 Subfamily 2.
HEMIEURYALINiE nov. Characters as given in key p.
65.
 This subfamily includes Sigsheia Ophioplus and Hemieuryale.
Order iii.
GNATHOPHIURIDA nov.
Radial shield and genital plate articulate by means of a conspicuous socket in the former and of a large balllike condyle on the latter.
Genital plates as a rule firmly fixed to the basal vertebrae.
Genital scales short very wide flattened leaflike.
On abradial side of innermost part of each genital slit occurs another short wide flattened leaflike scale which is firmly attached to oral shield.
Peristomal plates small or rarely large usually entire but sometimes double.
Oral frames as a rule with welldeveloped lateral wings.
Key to families of Gnathophiurida.
A  Teeth triangular with pointed ends not very stout oral papillae present dental papillae wanting peristomal plates large entire oral frames without welldeveloped lateral wings genital scales short leaf like genital plates free not fixed to basal vertebrae distal vertebrae often incompletely divided longitudinally by a series of pores Amphilepidid.
AA Teeth quadrangular with wide ends very stout peristomal plates small oral frames very stout with welldeveloped lateral wings genital plates firmly fixed to basal vertebrae.
a  Oral papillae present no vertical clump of dental papillae dorsal side of vertebrae rhomboidal not Ushaped Amphiurid.
aa  Oral papillae absent dental papillae well developed forming a vertical clump at apex of each jaw dorsal side of vertebrae Ushaped Ophiotrichid.
Family 1.
AMPHILEPIDIDiE nov. Characters as given above in key.
This family includes Amphilepis and Ophiochytra besides a new genus Amphiactis.
Though almost similar to the next in external features this family suggests the Ophiacanthidae in many internal structures.
Amphiactis gen. nov.
Disk covered with imbricating scales besides moderately large radial shields.
Four or five oral papillae on either side of each jaw unequal in size arranged almost in a continuous series.
Teeth 2 Ophioplus armatus Koehler 1907 evidently does not belong to the present subfamily being in my opinion referable to Ophiolebes.
triangular with pointed ends dental papillse absent.
Peristomal plates large entire.
Oral frames long and slender in internal view without welldeveloped lateral wings.
Vertebrae of distal arm joints often incompletely divided by a series of pores.
Arm spines few.
Tentacle scales present one or two to each pore.
This genus includes Amphiura canescens duplicata and patula of Lyman Amphiura partita Ophiactis dissideris and 0. parata of Koehler besides the genotype Amphiadis umbonata sp.
nov. Certain representatives of the present genus were referred to Amphiura by Lyman and then to Ophiactis by Liitken and Mortensen.
Amphiadis differs from Amphiura and its allies in the absence of paired infradental papillae and from Ophiadis in the more numerous papillae which are arranged in a continuous series so as to close the oral slits.
Further the contrast of the present genus and the Amphiuridm in many internal structures is decidedly striking.
Amphiadis much resembles Ophiochytra especially 0. tenuis Lyman but differs from it in the well developed radial shields.
Amphiactis umbonata sp.
nov.
Diameter of disk 7 mm.
Length of arms 30 mm.
Width of arms at base 1.2 mm.
Disk circular flat covered with rather coarse irregular scales among which the primaries are distinct.
Central plate large circular encircled by ten small scales which correspond to infrabasals and basals in position.
Radial plates large larger than central plate with strongly curved outer border which almost forms a semicircle.
The central and radial plates have each a small but distinct central boss.
The second radials and the first to third interradials may also be distinguished being larger than the secondary scales which are irregular in size and in arrangement.
Thus the disk squamation is rather similar to that of Ophiozona.
Radial shields comparatively small oblong ovate about twofifths as long as disk radius twice as long as wide wider without than within more convex abradially than adradially separated by a row of three or four plates of which the inner ones are larger than the outer.
In each interradial area there are five to seven irregularly radiating rows of scales.
Ventral interbrachial areas covered with more or less coarse irregular scales.
Genital slits long nearly reaching disk margin.
Genital scales invisible in external view.
Oral shields small rhomboidal with acute inner angle lateral and outer angles rounded inner sides slightly concave.
Adoral shields quadrangular wider without than within nearly or quite meeting within.
Four oral papillae on either side inner ones smaller and more acute.
Deep in oral slits on either side of each jaw occurs an additional papilla which is conical and acute.
Five teeth all obtuse except uppermost which is acute.
Arms slender flattened uniformly tapering distally.
Dorsal arm plates large fanshaped twice as wide as long inner sides slightly convex forming an obtuse angle within distal margin decidedly convex outer angles rounded successive plates separated by lateral arm plates except the basal two or three which are in contact with each other.
Lateral arm plates low not very prominent.
First ventral arm plate small divided into two secondary plates of which the inner one is triangular and the outer quadrangular those following large hexagonal except second which is pentagonal much wider than long widest at outer lateral angles with concave lateral sides distal and proximal margins slightly convex swollen along the outer margins and especially distally so that arm appears keeled along ventral median line.
Arm spines three subequal about as long as corresponding arm joint uppermost slightly longer cylindrical tapered and blunt.
Two flat oval tentacle scales to each pore but sometimes three on the first.
Color in alcohol white.
Two specimens Sagami Sea.
The internal structures of the present species are essentially similar to those of Amphilepis norvegica Ljungman.
The peristomal plates are simple very large.
The oral frames are entire without lateral wings.
The oral plates in internal view are very slender and long.
The dental plates are absent so that the teeth arise directly from the oral plates.
The genital plates are free from instead of being fixed to the basal vertebrae.
The genital plate and radial shield of either side of a radius articulate with each other bj means of a conspicuous balllike condyle on the former and of a large socket in the latter.
The genital scales are flat thin leaflike.
The vertebrae are very slender the distal ones being incompletely divided into halves by a series of pores.
The first five characters and the last are rather Lsemophiuridan but the other two the sixth and seventh are strictly Gnathophiuridan.
Family 2 AMPHIURID Ljungman 1867 emend..
Characters as given in key p.
66.
Key to suhfmnilies of Amphiuridce.
A  No paired infradental papillae Ophiactinin.e.
AA  Paired infradental papillae present Amphiurin.
Subfamily 1.
OPHIACTININ. nov. Characters as given above in key.
This subfamily includes Ophiactis.
Hemipholis Ophiopus and OphiophoUs.
Subfamily 2.
AMPHIURIN.
Characters as given above in key.
This subfamily includes Amphioplus AmphiUmna Amphiodia Ophiophragmus Ophiocnida Amphipholis Ophiostigma Amphiura Ophionema Paramphiura Ctenamphiura Ophiocentrus etc.
The first two genera may be grouped as an Ariiphiophi sgroup the next three as an Amphiodiagroup the following two as an AmphiphoUsgroup and the last five as an Amphiuragroup.
The Amphipholi sgvoup are very easily distinguished while the other three groups are less so.
These groups may be distinguished as follows  Three classes of oral papillse may be recognized the first arising from the adoral shields the second from the oral plates and the third from the dental plates and being infradental in position.
A papilla which arises partially from the adoral shield and partially from the oral plate is referred to the second class.
Now let 1 indicate the presence of papillae of the first class I the absence of same 11 the presence of papillae of the second class etc.
Then the groups of genera are formulized as follows Amphioplusgroup  1 11 III.
Amphiodiagroup   I 11 III.
Amphipholisgroup   I 11 III.
A7nphiuragroup  1 11 III.
It may clearly be seen that the A7iphiodiagroup are not intermediate between Amphioplusand Atnphiuragroup but are say the Anphioplusgroup without the papillae of the first class while the Amphiuragroup are the Amphioplusgroup without all or most of the papillse of the second class.
I believe that certain species having two distal papillae usually referred to Amphiodia are really referable to Amphiura.
Apphang the same principle to the Ophiactininae and Ophiotrichidae we have the following formulae 2 Hemipholis rnicrodiscus Duncan 1870 is evidently a genuine Amphiura.
 Including Ophionephthys.
5 Including Amphiocnida.
Ophiadis  I 11 III.
Ophiopholis  1 II III.
Ophiotrichidce  1 II III.
Ophiophragmus japonicus sp.
nov.
Diameter of disk 7 mm.
Length of arms 45 mm.
Width of arms at base 1 mm.
Disk fivelobed with very convex interbrachial borders covered with fine imbricating scales among which the six primaries are more or less distinguishable.
Radial shields semilunar onethird as long as disk radius twice as long as wide joined in pairs being however separated only at proximal end which is obtusely pointed.
A row of large and squarish scales borders disk.
Scales of ventral interbrachial areas just outside this marginal series turned up so as to form the sort of fence characteristic of genus.
Marginal scales more elevated than arms ventral interbrachial areas strongly convex below.
Genital slits long.
Oral shields rhomboidal with inner sides much longer than outer inner angle very acute outer and lateral angles rounded much longer than wide.
Adoral shields triangular tapered within to a point not meeting each other.
Four oral papillae on either side of each jaw closeset subequal blunt innermost somewhat stouter.
Dorsal arm plates elliptical large outer border curved inner border strongly convex forming part of a circle as wide as arms twice as wide as long slightly in contact with each other.
Lateral arm plates inserted like so many wedges between successive dorsal arm plates above and ventral plates below well separated above and nearly so below.
First ventral arm plate very small quadrangular much wider than long those beyond pentagonal with very large inner angle and slightly notched distal margin wider than long only a little in contact with each other.
Arm spines three conical subequal blunt nearly as long as corresponding arm joint.
Two very flat thin tentacle scales inner one smaller than outer and overlaps its base.
Color in alcohol light yellow.
Numerous specimens Kagoshima Gulf 8L5 fathoms.
Two specimens Enoura Suruga.
This species somewhat resembles 0. affinis Duncan especially in number of oral papillae but differs from it in shape of radial shields oral shields and of dorsal arm plates.
In my opinion AmphipJiolis andrece Liitken Amphiura prcestans Koehler and Amphiodia perierda H. L. Clark are referable to Ophiophragmus each showing certain affinities to the present species.
Amphipholis japonica sp.
nov.
This species is extremely near A. squamata being distinguished from it merely by certain trifling differences.
I have compared the Japanese material with specimens of A. squamata from Naples.
In Neapolitan specimens the arms are two and a half to three times as long as the disk diameter while in Japanese specimens they are three to four times as long as the same.
The distal margin of the ventral arm plates of Neapolitan specimens is nearly straight while that of Japanese specimens is considerably convex.
In the last character the present species resembles A. australiana H. L. Clark differing however from that species in the more numerous disk scales of the dorsal side and in the coarser disk scales of the ventral side.
The radial shields have each a white spot at the outer end quite as n A. squamata.
Like A. squamata the present species is viviparous.
In summer the larger individuals containseveral embryos.
I once dissected out six embryos from an adult.
Animals containing fullgrown embryos appear to give birth to them the night after they are placed in an aquarium.
This species is common in the neighborhood of jNIisaki and is found living under stones on fine sand.
As to the sensibility of this species to the coarseness of sand the following observations were made at Arai Beach Misaki Marine Biological Station.
In the summer of 1910 the beach was at first abundantly supplied with small areas among rocks covered with fine sand and this ophiuran was found very abundantly after a heavy storm very few individuals were found owing to the fact that the spots with fine sand were mostly wiped out.
In the summer of 1911 the spots with fine sand were very few and this ophiuran was seldom found.
In the summer of 1912 the beach was entirely covered with coarse sand and I could no more find this ophiuran.
It is a very active species quickly concealing itself in the sand when the stone is turned up.
Amphiura vadicola sp.
nov. 
Ophionephthys phalerata MarktannerTurneretscher non Lyman 1874 Ann.
K. K. Naturhist.
Hofmus. II 1887 p. 301.
Diameter of disk 8 mm.
Length of arms 260 mm.
Width of arms at base 1 mm at the widest part 1.3 mm.
Disk fivelobed with indented interbrachial borders covered by a soft naked skin except along inner and abradial borders of radial shields where  The interesting life habits of this ophiuran were described by the late Prof. Mitsukuri and Prof. Hara The Ophiurian Shoal Annot.
Zool.
Jap. I 1897 p. 68. there are several rows of fine imbricating scales.
Radial shields large long pearseedshaped naked part twothirds to onehalf as long as disk radius and about thrice as long as wide.
Genital slits long.
Genital scales not very conspicuous unless the specimen is dried arranged in a row and overlapping one another.
Oral shields small pentagonal with rounded angles outer sides longest inner side slightly concave maclrepofic shield much larger than the rest almost circular.
Adoral shields small triangular with concave adradial side meeting neither radially or interradially.
Oral plates long and very narrows There is a more or less conspicuous buccal pore between each pair of oral plates as in Ophiothrix.
Two oral papillse on either side of each jaw conical blunt very stout the distal one arises from the adoral shield and is longer than the apical one which arises from the dental plate.
Teeth very stout truncate.
Arms exceedingly long more than thirty times as long as disk diameter they are widest at about onethird their entire length from base.
Dorsal arm plates almost oval bounded within by two nearly straight lines forming a very large and obtuse angle and without by a curve which is nearly flat towards median line but very strong laterally about twice as wide as long successive plates slightly in contact with each other.
On basal arm joints they are very small and separated by spaces which are covered by a naked skin.
Lateral' arm plates not very prominent almost covered by arm spines not meeting above or below nor in contact on sides but separated by naked spaces.
First ventral arm plate very small quadrangular wider than long those beyond quadrangular wider than long except basal one or two which are as long as or longer than w4de they increase in size especially in width outwards and become pentagonal beyond disk with large and obtuse inner angle rounded outer angles and notched distal margin successive plates separated by narrow spaces where ventral ends of lateral arm plates are wedged in.
Ventral arm plates often divided into halves along median line.
Arm spines six to seven on basal arm joints but five or six in middle part of arm peglike flattened blunt lower ones longer nearly equal to or slightly longer than corresponding arm joint much flattened and thorny at end except the uppermost one or two next to lowest spurshaped and very thorny.
Large tentacle pores without scales.
Color in alcohol brown the scales around the radial shields are lighter outer parts of arms grayishbrown to gray.
Numerous specimens Sakurajima Kagoshima Gulf.
This sjiecies is very near Ophionephthys phalerata Lyman but differs from it in the much larger radial shields in the not oval but pentagonal oral shields in the adoral shields which are not in contact with each other in the longer oral plates in the dorsal arm plates being in contact with each other in the ventral arm plates being separated from each other and not very wide on the basal joints and in the not cylindrical but flattened thorny arm spines.
Amphiura aestuarii sp.
nov.
Diameter of disk 6 mm.
Length of arms 75 mm.
Width of arms at base 0.8 mm.
Disk fivelobed with concave interbrachial borders covered by a soft naked skin except along inner and abradial borders of radial shields where it is covered by fine imbricating scales arranged in four or five rows on inner border but in only one on outer part of abradial border.
Naked part of radial shields large pearseedshaped more than half as long as disk radius more than twice as long as wide hardly in contact without slightly divergent within.
Genital slits long.
Genital scales not very distinct.
Oral shields rhomboidal or pentagonal with a very short inner side outer angle much rounded wider than long.
Madreporic shield much larger and almost circular.
Adoral shields triangular with concave inner side tapered within where they do not meet.
Two pairs of oral papillae to each jaw apical ones oval and very stout distal ones conical obtuse arising from adoral shields.
Teeth stout truncate.
Dorsal arm plates transversely elliptical twice as wide as long successive plates in contact with each other.
Lateral arm plates not very prominent almost covered by arm spines not meeting above or below not in contact on sides but separated by naked spaces.
First ventral arm plate very small pentagonal or quadrangular wider within than without tho5e beyond quadrangular with convex inner side notched distal margin and rounded distal angles wider than long except basal one or two not in contact but separated by a narrow space where ventral ends of lateral arm plates are wedged in.
Arm spines five on basal joints but four in middle part of arm subequal or lower slightly longer nearly equal to or a little longer than corresponding arm joint conical and obtuse on proximal joints but flattened distally next to lowest spine especially flattened and rather spurshaped with numerous thorns on its much flattened tip lowest spine as well as second above it also more or less thorny at tip.
 Tentacle pores large without scales.
Color in alcohol disk gray radial shields and arms strawyellow.
Numerous specimens Aburatsubo Cove Misaki Marine Biological Station.
A. cestuarii differs from the foregoing species A. vadicola in the shape of the radial shields in the much shorter arms in the dorsal arm plates which are very wide even on the basal joints and in the fewer less flattened arm spines.
A. cestuarii together with A. euopla H. L. Clark are easily obtained by dredging in the muddy bottom of Aburatsubo Cove.
They probably live buried in mud as A. vadicola does in sand and I believe that the reduced disk scales and the numerous thorny arm spines are correlated with the mode of life.
Family 3.
OPHIOTRICHID Ljungman 1867.
Characters as given in key p.
66.
This family includes Ophiothrix Ophiopteron Ophiocampsis Ophiophthirius Ophiotrichoides Ophiomaza Ophiocnemis Ophiothela Ophiopsammium Ophiogymna Lutkenia Gymnolophus Ophiolophus OphiocEthiops and Ophiosphcera.
Order iv.
CHILOPHIURIDA nov.
Radial shield and genital plate articulate with each other by means of two condyles and one pit on either plate.
Genital plates and scales barlike.
Peristomal plates small or sometimes moderately large usually double or triple.
Oral frames with or without welldeveloped lateral wings.
Oral papillae very well developed close set the outermost one usually pointing inwards and stretching above the next papilla which is the largest as a rule.
Key to families of Chilophiurida  .
A  Arm spines short appressed.
a  Disk squamated or tessellated usually free of granules oral papillse thick arms stout stoutest at base inserted laterally to disk Ophiolepidid.
aa  Disk closely covered with granules.
b  Oral papillae thick arms slender stoutest usually at a distance from base inserted ventrally to disk two to four arm spines Ophioleucid.e.
66  Oral papillse thin arms stout stoutest at base inserted laterally to disk numerous arm spines OphiodermatiDuE pars.
AA Arm spines long not appressed.
c  No vertical clump of dental papillse.
d  Disk closely covered with granules arms stout stoutest at base numerous arm spines OPHIODERMATIDiE parS.
dd  Disk usually free of granules arms slender stoutest at a distance from base Ophiochitonid.
cc  Dental papillae well developed forming a vertical clump at apex of each jaw disk often covered with granules arms stout stoutest at a distance from base Ophiocomid.
Key to families of Chilophiurida  .
A  Teeth not very stout usually triangular oral frames entire without welldeveloped lateral wings.
a  Second oral tentacle pores open more or less or entirely outside oral slits Ophiolepidid pars.
aa  Second oral tentacle pores open within oral slits.
b  Disk squamated or tessellated free of granules.
c  Arms stout stoutest at base arm spines short appressed Ophiolepidide pars.
cc  Arms slender stoutest at a distance from base arm.
spines long not appressed Ophiochitonid pars.
bb  Disk covered with granules.
d  Arms slender stoutest at a distance from base arm spines few.
e  Arms inserted ventrally to disk arm spines appressed Ophioleucid.
ee  Arms inserted laterally to disk arm spines not appressed Ophiochitonid pars.
dd  Arms stout stoutest at base numerous arm spines Ophiodermatid.
AA  Teeth very stout quadrangular oral frames with welldevelloped lateral wings.
No vertical clump of dental papillse.
g  Arms stout stoutest at base arm spines short appressed.
Ophiolepidid.e pars.
gg  Arms slender stoutest at a distance from base arm spines long not appressed Ophiochitonid. pars.
  Dental papillae well developed forming a vertical clump at apex of each jaw Ophiocomid.
Family 1.
OPHIOLBPIDID Ljungman.
Characters as given above in keys.
Key to subfamilies of Ophiolepididce.
A  Second oral tentacle pores open more or less or entirely outside oral slits Ophiomastin.
AA  Second oral tentacle pores open entirely within oral slits Ophiolepidin.
Subfamily 1.
OPHIOMASTIN.E nov. Characters as given in key p.
75.
This subfamily includes Ophiomastus Ophiotypa Ophiomisidium Ophiophycis Anthophiura Ophiopijrgus Ophiochrysis Ophiosteira Gyninophiura Ophiura Ophionotus Ophioperla Ophiotjalfa Ophiogona Ophioplinthiis Ophiopleura Ophioden and provisionally Astrophiura besides five new genera Haplophiura Aspidophiura Am.phiophiura Stegophiura and Ophiurolepis.
Koehler's recently described genus Ophiomisidium includes Ophiomusium pulchellmn Wyville Thomson 0. flahellum Lyman and 0. speciosum Koehler the last being the genotype.
The group evidently stands between Ophiomastus and Ophiophycis in systematic position.
HAPLOPHIURA gen. nov.
Disk high much elevated above arms covered above with plates 'and scales among which the primaries are very prominent and below with closeset fine granules.
Radial shields stout joined in pairs.
Oral papillae soldered together.
Genital plates and scales present but invisible in external view.
Genital bursas absent and genital slits invisible.
Arms short low wider than high covered with convex arm plates.
Tentacle pores including second oral ones which open entirely outside oral slits naked being free from scales.
Arm spines few minute.
This new genus contains only a single species Ophiozona gymnopora H. L. Clark.
ASPIDOPHIURA gen. nov.
Disk rather high elevated above arms flat covered with very stout primaries and radial shields besides often a few smaller scales.
Ventral interbrachial areas covered by a very large plate besides very stout genital scales.
Arm combs and genital papillae present.
Oral shields purseshaped with a beaklike inner process.
Oral papillae soldered together.
Second oral tentacle pores open entirely outside oral slits slitlike guarded by numerous small scales.
Arms rather short strongly knotted with long arm joints.
Dorsal arm plates very rudimentary or entirely absent.
Ventral arm plates small rhomboidal or triangular.
Tentacle pores present only on several proximal arm joints provided with few or no scales.
Three short conical arm spines.
This genus includes Ophioglypha minuta Lyman and 0. forbesi Duncan   Ophiura glyptodisca H. L. Clark besides the genotype Aspidophiura watasei sp.
nov.
It stands rather between Anthophiura and a certain group of Amphiophiura with very conspicuous ventral interbrachial plates.
Aspidophiura watasei sp.
nov.
This species is very near A. Jorhesi but differs from it chieflj' in the presence of a central boss to each of the six primary plates in the smaller radial shields whifch are about as large as the radial plates in the ventral arm plates which more rapidly diminish in size outwards in the longer arm spines which are longer than half the corresponding arm joint and in the absence of tentacle scales beyond the disk.
The present species differs from A. minuta chiefl in the presence of a central boss to each of the six primaries in the smaller radial shields and in the betterdeveloped arm combs.
The type specimen is 5 mm.
across the disk with arms probably about twice the disk diameter and 1.3 mm.
in width.
Color in alcohol disk yellowish gray above and white below arms white.
One specimen Sagami Sea.
One specimen Uraga Channel.
AMPHIOPHIURA gen. nov.
Disk high often convex covered with plates and scales among which the primaries are very prominent.
Radial shields stout joined in pairs.
Arm combs and genital papillae present.
Oral shields oval pyriform or trefoil.
Second oral tentacle pores open more or less or entirely outside oral slits large guarded by numerous scales.
Arms moderately long gradually tapering outwards with blunt tips.
Dorsal and ventral arm plates fairly well developed successive plates in contact with each other at least on proximal arm joints.
Lateral arm plates high with few to numerous short peglike arm spines.
Tentacle pores large with numerous scales.
This new genus includes Ophioglijpha bullata Wyville Thomson which is here designated as the genotype also the following species with very conspicuous oral shields which almost cover the ventral interbrachial areas 0. convexa Lyman and 0. insoUta improba and ahclita of Koehler also the following species with very conspicuous ventral interbrachial plates 0. solida and scutata of Lyman 0. stellata Stucler 0. paupera sordida liberata urbana remota and latro of Koehler and Ophiura cediplax and pompophora of H. L. Clark also the following species with the ventral interbrachial areas covered with many scales and having quadrangular ventral arm plates Ophioglijpha sculptilis   0. variabilis lacazei lapidaria and undata of Lyman 0. prisca laudata and distincta of Koehler and Ophiura megapoma hadra and penichra of H. L. Clark also the following species with the ventral interbrachial areas covered with many scales and having axeshaped ventral arm plates Ophioglypha radiata and ornata of Lyman and 0. abcisa and ohtecta of Llitken and Mortensen.
The group with very large oral shields or with very conspicuous ventral interbrachial plates approaches Ophiopyrgus on the one hand and Aspidophiura on the other the group with ventral interbrachial areas covered with many scales and with quadrangular ventral arm plates approaches Gymnophiura on the one hand and Stegophiura vide infra on the other and the group with ventral interbrachial areas covered with many scales and with axeshaped ventral arm plates approaches true Ophiura restr.
vide infra.
GYMNOPHIURA Liitken and Mortensen 1899 restr..
Disk high covered by a naked skin.
Radial shields long narrow barlike widely separated from each other covered by skin.
Arm combs and genital papillae present.
Oral shields comparatively small pentagonal with notched lateral sides.
Second oral tentacle pores opened partially outside the oral slits large with numerous scales.
Arms moderately long very gradually tapered outwards with blunt extremity.
Dorsal and ventral arm plates well developed successive plates widely in contact with each other.
Lateral arni plates high with numerous minute peglike arm spines.
Tentacle pores large with numerous scales.
This genus as restricted contains but a single species G. tnollis Liitken and Mortensen.
Another species viz. G. coerulescens is in my opinion referable to genuine Ophiura and is probably conspecific with or at least closely allied to Ophiura flagellata Lyman.
Gymnophiura is very near Amphiophiura especially the group with ventral interbrachial areas covered with many scales and with quadrangular ventral arm plates but differs from it in the naked disk and in the radial shields which are narrow barlike skincovered and widely separated from each other.
STEGOPHIURA gen. nov.
Disk high covered with plates and scales among which the primaries are prominent.
Radial shields stout joined distally.
Arm combs and genital papillae present.
Oral shields oval or pyriform.
Second oral tentacle pores open more or less or entirely outside oral slits large provided with numerous scales.
Arms very short very stout at base higher than wide rapidly tapering distally with acute tip.
Dorsal and ventral arm 'plates well developed successive plates widely in contact with each other.
Lateral arm plates high with numerous arm spines often unequal and arranged in two series.
Tentacle pores large with numerous scales.
This genus includes Ophiura nodosa and stiiwitzii of Llitken Ophioglypha elevata Lyman 0. sculpta sladeni  Ophiura stiphra H. L. Clark and striata of Duncan and 0. sterea and Ophiura brachyactis of H. L. Clark besides a new species Stegophiura vivipara.
The genotype is Ophiura nodosa Ltk.
Stegophiura much resembles a certain group of Amphiophiura but differs in the shorter stouter and more rapidly tapering arms with more acute tips.
Stegophiura vivipara sp.
nov.
Diameter of disk 6 mm.
Length of arms 13 mm.
Width of arms at base 1.5 mm.
Disk pentagonal or circular especially when the animal contains many embryos convex covered with fifty to sixty plates on the dorsal side including the radial shields.
Central plate pentagonal.
Five pentagonal radials directly surrounding the central plate laterally overlapping each other.
In each interradial space of dorsal side is a large squarish plate wider than long in contact with radial shields latter irregular in outline about as wide as long one overlapping the other instead of apposed to each other in radial line.
On ventral side of disk plates rounded and knoblike with furrows between.
Genital papillae blunt closeset longer outwards and upwards where they form small arm combs.
Oral shields pearshaped much longer than wide wider without than within with acute inner angles and perfectly rounded distal margins.
Adoral shields large meeting within along their whole length.
Five oral papillae on either wide squarish short wide closeset a pair of infradental papillae at apex of each jaw much longer and stouter than the other oral papillae rather obtusely pointed.
Five teeth very small closeset obtusely pointed.
Arms very short stout at base rapidly tapered distally.
Dorsal arm plates fanshaped about as wide as long convex dorsally.
Lateral arm plates convex those of the two sides separated both above and below on the basal arm joints.
First ventral arm plate large triangular with obtuse inner angle and convex outer side wider than long the following plates are octagonal with very short proximolateral and distolateral sides the former concave at tentacle pores wider than long wider without than within from the six or seventh outwards the plates are longer than wide hexagonal with very short proximal and proximolateral sides concave lateral margins and a very convex distal side.
Arm spines seven or eight including the tentacle scales on the free basal joints fine conical short middle ones longer than upper and lower ones and about half as long as corresponding arm joint diminishing in number outwards the lower spines are much finer and serve as tentacle scales.
Second oral tentacle pore very large opening outside oral slit bounded by three or four scales on each side.
Tentacle pores large guarded on basal joints by one to three aboral scales besides the lower arm spines on the adoral side.
Color in alcohol pale gray.
Numerous specimens  Sagami Sea.
Numerous specimens Sagami Sea 75 and 100 fathoms.
This species is viviparous.
I once dissected out twentyfour embryos of various sizes from a single adult.
OPHIUROLEPIS gen. nov.
Disk covered with larger rounded plates and smaller scales the former surrounded by belts of the latter.
Radial shields moderately large rounded separated from each other.
Adoral shields oval with rounded inner border and obtusely pointed outer end.
One to three supplementary plates are present in each space between the adoral shields and oral plates.
Teeth and oral papillse present the latter very close set.
Arm combs as well as genital papillse absent.
Arms long stout very gradually tapered.
Dorsal arm plates very well developed widely in contact with each other.
Lateral arm plates low.
Ventral arm plates triangular nearly or scarcely in contact with each other.
Second oral tentacle pores open entirely outside oral slits long slitlike closed by tentacle scales which are modified so as to appear like supplementary plates.
A single arm spine and three tentacle scales both being minute and peglike.
This new genus contains a single species Ophiolepis carinata Studer 1876   Ophioglypha deshayesi Lyman.
Ophiurolepis is very peculiar in every feature as it is certainly not referable to Ophiura even in a wide sense.
The disk squamation reminds us of that of Ophiolepis.
OPHIURA Lamarck 1816 Forbes 1839 restr..
Synonyms Ophioglypha Lyman 1860 Ophioylyphina Ludwig 1886.
Disk low flat covered with plates and scales among which the primaries are usually very prominent.
Radial shields usually separated from each other sometimes more or less joined in pairs.
Second oral tentacle pores open nearly or entirely outside oral slits very large beset with numerous scales.
Genital papillse and usually also arm combs present.
Arms low often flattened.
Dorsal arm plates usually well developed and in contact with each other.
Lateral arm plates low those of the two sides being in contact with each other below.
Three or more arm spines of variable length.
Tentacle pores of one or two innermost pairs large and beset with rather numerous scales but those beyond very small and beset with a few scales.
This genus as here restricted includes Asterias ciliata Retzius and the following species with spiniform genital and combpapillse  Ophiura albida Forbes Ophiolepis robusta Ayres Ophiura sarsii ardica carnea and affinis of Llitken 0. kinhergi Ljungman 0. hexadis and hrevispina of Smith 0. acervata inermis papillata flagellata  Gymnopkiura coerulescens Llitken and Mortensen imbecillis lepida Bqualis Ijungmani and mendionalis of Lyman 0. aurantiaca Verrill 0. maculata Ludwig 0. amphifrites Bell 0. indica Brock 0. thouleti Koehler Ophiozona capensis Bell Ophiura leptodenia micracantha quadrispina bathybia and Ophioden ooplax H. L. Clark also the following species with blunt and flat genital and comb papillae Ophioglypha midtispina and lymani Ljungman 0. lutkeni irrorata undata costata albata jejuna loveni fraterna rugosa inornata confragosa intorta ambigua abyssorum tenera and falciiera of Lyman 0. verrucosa Studer 0. inflata demens concreta mundata and aspera of Koehler 0. plana scutellata nana and obteda of Llitken and Mortensen 0. tessellata Verrill Ophiura dasta tnonostcecha atada calyptolepis and cryptolepis of H. L. Clark.
Ophionotus Ophioperla and Ophiotjalfa are very close to the present genus  especially to the typical group with spiniform genital and comb papillse and with rather long arm spines.
Ophionotus may be defined as typical Ophiura with supplementary dorsal arm plates Ophioperla as Ophiura with granulated disk and Ophiotjalfa as Ophiura without genital papillae and arm combs.
SubfamUy 2.
OPHIOLEPIDIN nov. Characters as given in key p.
75.
This subfamily includes Ophiomusium Ophiolipus Ophiophyllum Ophiopenia Ophiocrates Ophiomidas Ophiothyreus Ophiozona Ophioceramis Ophiolepis and Ophioplocus besides a new genus Ophiozonella which is separated from Ophiozona.
6 OPHIOZONELLA gen. nov.
Disk covered with stout plates mingled with smaller ones.
Radial shields very large those of both sides of a radius separated from each other by a single row of plates or more or less in contact with each other.
No distinct trio of plates just outside and between each pair of radial shields.
Oral and adoral shields rather large.
Teeth and oral papillae present the latter are thick and closeset.
Genital slits short not reaching disk margin.
Arms not very long stout at base rather rapidly tapering distally to a slender and acute tip.
Dorsal and ventral arm plates rhomboidal successive plates separated from each other at least distal to arm base.
Arm spines two to four short.
One or two tentacle scales to each pore.
This new genus includes the following species with two tentacle scales Ophiozona nivea tessellata marmorea and clypeata of Lyman 0. bispinosa and molesta of Koehler and 0. elevata and platydisca of H. L. Clark and the following with only one tentacle scale 0. insularia stellata antillarum and depressa of Lyman 0. alba and contigua of Liitken and Mortensen 0. casta and projeda of Koehler 0. tjalfiana Mortensen and 0. polyplax and longispina of H. L. Clark.
The genotype is Ophiozona longispina H. L. Clark.
Ophiozonella includes deepwater forms and is allied to such genera as Ophiocrates and Ophiofuidas while genuine Ophiozona includes littoral forms and is very close to Ophiolepis and Ophiothyreus.
OPHIOZONA Lyman 1865 restr..
Disk covered with very numerous small plates and scales the larger surrounded by belts of smaller.
Radial shields small widely separated from each other by several plates and numerous scales.
A noticeable trio of plates is distinguishable just outside and between each pair of radial shields.
Oral and adoral shields small.
Teeth and oral papillge present latter very thick and closeset.
Genital slits rather long.
Arms long rather slender very gradually tapering distally with blunt tips.
Dorsal as well as ventral arm plates well developed quadrangular successive plates widely in contact with each other throughout the entire length of the arm.
Four or five short peglike arm spines.
Two tentacle scales to each pore more or less oval in common outline.
This genus as here restricted includes only Ophiolepis impressa and pacifica of Liitken the two species on which Ophiozona was based by Lyman.
The genotype is 0. impressa.
The Ophiolepidinse comprises two groups one of which includes genera with welldeveloped quadrangular dorsal and ventral arm plates and the other those with more or less rudimentary dorsal and ventral arm plates.
The first group including littoral forms is again divided into two sections one of which including Ophiothyreus Ophiozona and Ophiolepis is characterized by the presence of a distinct trio of plates just outside and between each pair of radial shields and by the presence of two tentacle scales which are oval in common outline while the other including Ophioceramis and Ophioplocus is characterized by the absence of a distinct trio of plates just outside and between each pair of radial shields and by the presence of three to five tentacle scales which surround the pore.
The distinction of Ophiolepis and Ophiozona from each other depends upon the presence or absence of supplementary dorsal arm plates.
From a certain point of view I believe that Ophiozona is more closely allied to Ophiolepis than to Ophiozonella.
Ophiozona is found in the West Indies and on the Pacific side of Panama.
The faunae of the two sides of Panama stand in a very intimate relation to each other.
The distribution of Ophiozona and that of Ophioderma are equally interesting as illustrating this truth.
Family 2.
OPHIOLEUCID nov. Characters as given in keys pp.
74 and 75.
This family includes Ophiopcepale Ophiocirce Ophioleuce'' Ophiopallas Ophiotrochus Ophiernus and Ophiopyren.
Family 3.
OPHIODERMATID Ljungman 1867.
Characters as given in keys pp.
74 and 75.
Key to suhfamilies of Ophiodermatidce.
A  Arm spines rather long not appressed distal vertebrae sometimes imperfectly divided into halves by a series of pores Ophiarachnin.
A A  Arm spines very short appressed vertebrae always entire Ophiodermatin.
Subfamily 1.
OPHIARACHNIN nov. Characters as given above in key.
This subfamily includes Ophiarachna and three new genera Ophiuroconis Ophiurodon and Ophiurochceta. ''
Ophioden charischema H. L. Clark 1911 and 0. brevispinum H. L. Clark 1911 are in my opinion referable to Ophioleuce.
Key to the genera Ophioconis Ophiochceta and Opkiolimna in wide sense.
A  Arm spines long flagellate not appressed.
a  Outermost oral papilla very large and operculiform  peristomal plates very short and wide nearly entire with fairly soldered halves and without a third median secondary plate Ophiolinma emencL aa  Outermost oral papilla pointed inwards stretching above the next papilla which is the largest peristomal plates rather long and wide distinctly triple consisting of two paired and one median secondary plates.
b  Oral shields entirely covered with granules arm plates usually concentrically striated vertebrae of distal arm joints often divided into halves arm spines hyaline one or two tentacle scales neither of which overlaps base of lowest arm spine.
c  Teeth triangular and pointed not hyaline ventral arm plates wider than long usually separated from each other Ophiuroconis nov. cc  Teeth flat thin with widened and often serrate end hyaline ventral arm plates longer than wide distinctly in contact with each other Ophiurodon nov. hh  Oral shields naked arm plates not concentrically striated vertebrae always entire arm spines opaque two tentacle scales of which the abradial one overlaps base of lowest arm spine Ophiurochceta nov. AA  Arm spines very short peglike lying flat on arm.
d  Oral shields covered with granules arm spines hyaline Ophioconis restr.
dd  Oral shields naked.
e  Arm spines hyaline disk covered with granules.
Ophioconis indica.
ee  Arm spines opaque disk covered with fine spines Ophiochceta restr.
Ophiolimna emend. includes Ophiacantha hairdii Lyman referred to Ophiolimna by Verrill Ophioconis antarctica Lyman Ophiacantha perfida Koehler Ophiolimna operculata Koehler Ophioconisdiastata and papillata of H. L. Clark and Ophiacantha lambda H. L. Clark and belongs to the Ophiacanthidse.
Ophiuroconis includes Ophioconis pulveridenta and miliaria of Lyman besides the genotype Ophiuroconis monolepis sp.
nov. Ophiurodon includes Ophioconis cincta Brock 0. grandisquaryia permixta and cupida of Koehler.
Ophiurochceta includes Ophiochceta mixta Lyman referred to Ophiolimna by Verrill and Ophiolimna littoralis Koehler.
The last three genera belong to the Ophiarachninae especially Ophiurochceta is very near Ophiarachna.
Ophioconis restr. includes Pectinura forbesii Heller referred to Ophioconis by Llitken and Ophioconis brevispina Ludwig.
Ophiochceta contains only 0. hirsuta Liitken.
Genuine Ophioconis much resembles Cryptopelta but has however hyaline arm spines.
Genuine Ophiochceta appears to be very near Pectinura but is however covered with fine spines instead of granules on the disk. 
Ophioconis  indica Koehler which I do not dare to name generically as I have not myself examined it appears to resemble Pectinura except for the hyaline arm spines and the presence of a single tentacle scale on most of the tentacle pores instead of two.
OPHIUROCONIS gen. nov.
Disk and oral angles including oral shields closely covered with fine granules.
Six or seven oral papillae on either side of each jaw outermost one pointed inwards stretching above next papilla which is the largest.
Teeth triangular and obtusely pointed.
Arms not very long cylindrical widest at the base tapering outwards to the very slender tip where the vertebrae are imperfectly divided into halves by a longitudinal series of pores.
Ventral arm plates wider than long not in contact with each other except on the most proximal joints.
Arm spines six or more more or less long flattened hyaline and not appressed.
One or two tentacle scales to each pore.
Ophiuroconis monolepis sp.
nov.
This species is at once distinguished from both 0. pulverulenta and miliaria by fewer oral papillae by fewer and shorter arm spines and by the presence of a single tentacle scale instead of two to each pore.
Oral papillae six or seven in number on either side of each jaw closeset and acute.
Each lateral arm plate bears six or seven arm spines which are rather spiniform acute slightly flattened and hyaline uppermost one or two spines nearly twice as long as and lowest one slightly shorter than corresponding arm joint.
A single small leaflike but acutely pointed tentacle scale at each pore.
Dorsal arm plates rather small fanshaped not in contact with each other wider than long convex along median line so that the arm is keeled dorsallj as a whole.
Ventral arm plates very small much wider than long much shorter than corresponding arm joint.
All the dorsal lateral and ventral arm plates are concentrically striated.
The type specimen is 5 mm.
across disk 25 mm.
in arm length and 1 mm.
in arm width at base.
Color in alcohol  light yellow.
Six specimens Sagami Sea 85 fathoms.
Two specimens Sagami Sea 300 fathoms.
OPHIURODON gen. nov.
Disk and oral angles including oralshields closely covered with fine granules.
Four or five oral papillae on either side of each jaw outermost pointed inwards stretching above next papilla.
Teeth flat thin with widened and often serrate end.
Arms not very long widest at base tapering outwards to the very slender tip.
Ventral arm plates very narrow longer than wide distinctly in contact with each other.
Vertebrae of distal arm joints often imperfectly divided into halves by a longitudinal series of pores.
Six or more arm spines long flattened hyahne not appressed.
Single tentacle scale to each pore.
The genotype is Ophioconis grandisquama Koehler and it is worth noting that a specimen of this species was recently collected at Okinose a submarine bank in the Sagami Sea.
OPHIUROCHTA gen. nov.
Disk closely covered with fine granules and sparsely beset 7.
'ith fine spines.
Oral angles also granulated but oral shields naked.
Numerous closeset oral papillae of which outermost one is pointed inwards stretching above next papilla which is the largest.
Teeth triangular and obtusely pointed.
Arms not very long rather stout stoutest at base.
Dorsal as well as ventral arm plates well developed widely in contact with each other.
Six or more arm spines long flagellate opaque not appressed.
Two tentacle scales to each pore abraclial one overlapping base of lowest arm spine.
The genotype is Ophiochceta mixta Lyman.
Ophiurochceta differs from Ophiolimna in the following important particulars more numerous oral papillae of which the outermost one is not operculiform but pointed inwards above the next papilla which is the largest welldeveloped dorsal and ventral arm plates which are widely in contact with each other two tentacle scales of which the abradial one distinctly overlaps the base of the lowest arm spine triple peristomal plates.
Verrill considers that the internal structures of 0. mixta are much like those of Ophiacantha but my own opinion is quite to the contrary.
I have observed that the internal structures of Ophiuroconis monolepis Ophiurodon grandisquama Ophiurochceta mixta Ophiarachna incrassata Ophiochiton fastigatus Ophioplax lamellosa etc. belong to a common type.
In them the peristomal plates are always triple consisting of two paired and one median secondary jDlates while in Ophiacantha Ophiolimna etc. the peristomal plates are entire or double with soldered halves and always lack a third median secondary plate.
Further the peristomal plates of the former type are distinctly longer in proportion to their width than are those of the latter.
Ignoring the smaller size Ophiurocfueta much resembles Ophiarachna the only essential differences being the presence of scattered disk spines and the absence of accessory oral shields.
The systematic value of the accessory oral shields is however considered insignificant by Dr. H. L. Clark.
I have also observed the absence of the accessory oral shields in some interradii of a specimen of Ophiarachna incrassata.
One may safely say then that the relation of Ophiurochceta to Ophiarachna is parallel to that of Ophiomastiz to Ophiocoma or of Ophiochceta to Pectinura.
Subfamily 2.
OPHIODERMATIN.E nov. Characters as given in key p.
83.
This subfamily includes Ophioconis restr. Cryptopelta Bathypedinura Pectinura Ophiopezella Ophiochceta Ophiarachnella Ophiochasma Ophioderma Ophioncus and Diopederma.
Bathypectinura gotoi sp.
nov.
Diameter of disk 50 mm.
Length of arms 195 mm.
Width of arms at base 7 mm.
Disk pentagonal flat closely covered with fine granules of which four or five are contained in 1 mm.
Radial shields only partly naked but distinguishalle through the superficial granulations by the slight swelling as large elongated ovate plates nearly half as long as disk radius wider outwards naked part very small ovate and wider without than within.
Genital slits very long almost reaching disk margin.
Genital plates visible from exterior lying along adradial border of slits long very stout.
Oral shields small triangular with rounded angles and convex sides nearly as wide as long.
Accessory oral shields very rudimentary in one of the two specimens they are absent but in the other they are indistinctly represented by one or two small scales which are separated from the oral shield by granules.
The adoral shields are almost and the oral plates entirely covered with granules which are coarser and sparser than distally.
Eight or nine oral papillse on either side outermost two or three large flat thin outer second largest inner ones small more or less conical obtuse.
Five to seven teeth irregular in shape and size with pointed or rounded ends arranged in an irregular vertical row.
Arms long stout gradually tapered outwards with a rather sharp dorsal median ridge triangular in transverse section.
Dorsal arm plates large occupying almost entire dorsal surface of arm quadrangular with rounded outer corners a little wider without than within three to four times as wide as long with a rather sharp ridge on the median line some are divided into several irregular secondary plates.
Lateral arm plates very low less than half height of arm meeting neither above nor below.
Ventral arm plates small rhomboidal with shorter diameter parallel to arm axis.
First plate almost as wide as but much shorter than following the three or four plates beginning with the second have a median keel which is more prominent proximally both with regard to each plate and to the arm as a whole.
Arm spines four for the most part but three distally very short flattened lanceolate obtuse lowest one somewhat longer than the others but not so long as corresponding arm joint.
One tentacle scale large oval thin flat.
Color in alcohol light yellowish brown.
Two specimens Sagami Sea 170 fathoms.
This new species is very near B. lacerlosa Lyman but differs from it in the coarser disk granules in the smaller naked part of the radial shields in the more strongly ridged dorsal arm plates in the much lower lateral arm plates in the wider and rhomboidal ventral arm plates and in the shorter arm spines.
Family 4.
OPHIOCHITONID.E nov. Characters as given in keys pp.
74 and 75.
Key to subfamilies of Ophiochitonidoe.
A  Teeth triangular not very stout peristomal plates moderately large oral frames entire without welldeveloped lateral wings dorsal side of vertebrae entire rhomboidal Ophiochitonin.
A A  Teeth cuadrangular very stout peristomal plates very small oral frames with welldeveloped lateral wings dorsal side of vertebrae notched inwards and Vshaped Ophionereidin.
Subfamily 1.
OPHIOCHITONIN nov. Characters as given above in key.
This subfamily includes Ophiochiton and Ophioplax.
OpMoplax lamellosa sp.
nov.
This new species is quite near Ophioplax Ijungmani Ophiopeza custos Koehler referred to Ophioplax by Koehler and Ophiopeza Ophiocfdlon lymani Studer 1883 is in my opinion referable to Ophiocten being allied to Ophiocten hastatus Lyman 0. pacificiim Liitken and Mortensen etc.
reducta Koehler referred to Bathypectinura by Dr. H. L. Clark . It is however distinguished from 0.
Ijungmani by the presence of primary disk plates by coarser disk scales by shape of radial shields by the disk margin being not so closely granulated and by the shape of the oral shields from 0. custos by the presence of primary disk plates by coarser disk scales by the shape of the radial shields by the adoral shields not meeting each other within by the shape of the first and second ventral arm plates by the presenc3 of lamellar plates at the arm bases and by shape of dorsal arm plates and from 0. reducta by dorsal side of disk being free of granules by radial shields not being divergent and by shape of ventral arm plates.
Disk covered with fine imbricating scales among which the six primaries are more or less distinct the radial plates are smaller and less conspicuous than the central plate.
Radial shields triangular with acute inner angles twice as long as wide those of a pair are nearly parallel being separated from each other.
Ventral interbrachial areas are closely covered with very fine granules.
Oral shields large triangular with strongly curved outer border less curved lateral sides obtuse inner angle and perfectly rounded lateral angles.
Adoral shields large triangular long tapered within to an acute point but they do not meet.
Lamellar plates and fine granules occur on dorsal and lateral surface of free arm bases.
Dorsal arm plates triangular at first but soon becoming quadrangular with rounded outer corners and curved lateral borders much wider without than within.
First ventral arm plate is small triangular with rounded angles nearly as wide as long those beyond are pentagonal with an inwardly directed angle which is covered by the preceding plate outer border curved and lateral borders concave and bounded by tentacle pores.
A single large oval tentacle scale occurs on the abradial side of each pore besides on the adradial side of a few basal pores there are present one or two rudimentary tentacle scales more or less covered over by the abradial one.
The type is 4.5 mm.
across the disk 35 mm.
in arm length and 0.8 mm.
in arm width at base.
Color in alcohol yellowish gray above and white below arms banded with dark gray.
One specimen off Kotsujima Sagami Sea.
It is recorded that the above specimen was taken with a coral net ' Ophiopeza reducta appears to me to be referable to Ophioplax.
The presence of only three long cylindrical arm spines and of only five oral papillae the annulation on the arms and the naked oral plates are all characters of Ophioplax but not of genuine Bathypectinura.
but the depth is not stated.
As the annulation on the arms indicates this species is not a deepwater form but probably subUttoral.
Subfamily 2.
OPHIONEREIDIN Ljungman 1867 emend..
Characters as given in key p.
88.
Tliis subfamily includes Ophiodoris Opkionereis and Ophiocrasis.
OPHIOCRASIS H. L. Clark 1911.
Aside from the presence of the secondary supplementary dorsal arm plates this genus seems to me to be distinguished from Opkionereis principally by negative characters and different degrees of development of certain common structures.
Disk scales even and exceecUngly fine no trace of marginal row of special disk scales no genital papillae arms much more slender than in Opkionereis.
Schizogonic reproduction may not be a generic character.
Ophiocrasis marktanneri sp.
nov. Ophionereis porreda MarktannerTurneretscher non Lyman 1860 Ann.
K. K. Naturh.
Hofmus. II 1887 p. 302 PI.
XII i.
18.
Ophionereis porreda Marktanner  Koehler Bull.
Sci.
Fr.
Belg. XXXI 1898 p. 76.
Diameter of disk 9 mm.
Length of arms 68 mm.
Width of arms at base 1.2 mm at the widest part 1.5 mm.
Disk circular slightly concave rather soft covered with fine imbricating scales which are rather obscured so that the disk appears as though covered by a thick skin.
Radial shields very small short exceedingly narrow tapered within widely separated from each other hard to detect.
Ventral interbrachial areas covered with scales similar to those of the dorsal side but even more obscure.
Genital slits large nearly reaching disk margin.
No genital papilla.
Oral shields rhomboidal with obtuse inner angle and rounded lateral and outer angles nearly as wide as long except madreporic shield which is decidedly longer than wide.
Adoral shields small acutely tapered within where they nearly or hardly meet.
Four or five oral papillae on either side of each jaw unequal short rounded but the outermost one which is closely associated with the second oral tentacle pore has pointed inner end.
Four teeth short stout with wide end.
Arms long and very slender narrowed at base widest at onefourth to onethird of arm length.
Dorsal arm plates mostly triangular with obtuse outwardly directed apex rather small wider than long successive plates slightly in contact with each other quadrangular in the more distal parts.
On either side of each dorsal arm plate there occurs a large supplementary plate which is nearly semicircular about onehalf as large as the dorsal arm plate and bounded along the distal border by one or two very insignificant secondary supplementary plates which however are present only for a comparatively short distance near the arm base two or three first dorsal arm plates and their supplementary plates are smaller than those beyond supplementary plates smaller outwards as dorsal arm plates become quadrangular and finally disappear.
Lateral arm plates not very prominent meeting neither above nor below.
First ventral arm plate very small rather pentagonal longer than wide those beyond quadrangular with rounded outer lateral angles truncated inner lateral angles and slightly notched outer border nearly as long as wide but longer than wide distally.
Three arm spines short stout flattened blunt.
One large oval tentacle scale to each pore.
Color in alcohol grayish yellow disk reticulated and arms banded with dark purplish brown.
Three specimens Enoshima.
Numerous specimens Aral Beach Misaki Marine Biological Station..
The arm length varies from six to eight times the disk diameter.
In smaller specimens the arm spines are less flattened and in those smaller than 4 mm.
across the disk the secondary supplementary dorsal arm plates are 'almost invisible.
This species differs from the genotype 0. dictydisca H. L. Clark in the shape of the dorsal arm plates in the less distinct secondary supplementary dorsal arm plates and in the smaller and more insignificant radial shields.
Further schizogonic reproduction has not been observed in the present species though I have examined many very small specimens.
0. marklanneri as well as the genotype resembles Ophionereis dubia in lacking the genital papillae but differs from it chiefly in the presence of the secondary supplementary dorsal arm plates and in the much narrower arms.
0. marktanneri is by no means near Ophionereis porrecta Lyman.
I could mention some more differences than those enumerated by Koehler between these two species but it is not necessary to do so here.
This charmingly handsome species is one of the most common ophiurans about Misaki living under stones and rocks.
Family 5.
OPHIOCOMIDiE Ljungman 1867.
Characters as given in keys pp.
74 and 75.
Key to subfamilies of Ophiocomidce.
A  Radial shields long and wide bootshaped widely separated from each other three to five arm spines tentacle scales short and leaflike Ophiocoaiin.
AA  Radial shields long and very narrow barlike each pair approximating each other at the outer ends numerous arm spines two tentacle scales of which the abradial one is minute and acute and the adradial one is very long and lanceolate Ophiopsilin.
Subfamily 1.
OPHIOCOMIN nov. Characters as given above in key.
This subfamily includes Ophiopteris Ophiocoma Ophiomastix and Ophiar thrum.
Subfamily 2.
OPHIOPSILIN.E nov. Characters as given above in key.
This subfamily is formed by a single genus Ophiopsila.
Though Ophiopsila is referred to the Amphiuridse by certain authors it fundamentally differs from the latter in the internal structures.
The oral frames have welldeveloped lateral wings as in the Amphiuridse Ophiotrichidse Ophioceramis Ophionereidinse and Ophiocominse.
The oral and dental plates are 7t shaped instead of being xshaped in common outline in internal view quite as in Ophioceramis the Ophionereidinse and Ophiocominse.
The genital plates are entirely free from the basal vertebrae and have two condyles and one pit at the outer end to match two condyles and one pit of the radial shield as an important characteristic of the Chilophiurida while those of the Amphiuridse and Ophiotrichidse are firmly fixed to the basal vertebrse and have only a single large condyle to match one large socket of the radial shield.
The genital scales are long narrow and barlike also a characteristic of the Chilophiurida while those of the Gnathophiurida are short very flat and leaflike.
As to the external characters the presence of both oral and welldeveloped dental papillae hinders any reference of Ophiopsila to either the Amphiuridse or Ophiotrichidae.
In short Ophiopsila is referalle only to the Ophiocomidae being however distinguished from the other genera of that family by certain characters of secondary importance.
March 16.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
Fortyseven persons present.
The Publication Committee reported the reception of papers under the following titles  Fixation of single type Lectotypic specimens of species of American Orthoptera.
Division III.
By Albert P. Morse and Morgan Hebard February 27.
Notes on hematognathus fishes.
By Henry W. Fowler March 1.
Coldblooded vertebrates from Florida the West Indies Costa Rica and Eastern Brazil.
By Henry W. Fowler March 1.
The deaths of Thomas Biddle M.D. a member February 19 1915 and of James Geikie a correspondent March 2 1915 were announced.
Dr. Clarence E. McClung made a communication on parallel differences in germ cell organization and characters of the body illustrated by representatives of groups or families of Orthoptera.
The Recording Secretary read the following communication from Adele M. Fielde A new hypothesis concerning butterflies.
 It is known that a virgin female moth or butterfly of the Great Peacock the Oak Egger and some other species attracts males of her kind from afar.
No naturalist has written of this matter more charmingly than has Jean Henri Fabre. Having sequestered such a female under a wiregauze cover scores of males came from woodsy distances to seek her.
Putting her in an airtight cell whether of paper wood glass metal or cotton batting prevented the escape of her effluvium and therefore prevented the arrival of her suitors.
If placed under a bell glass where' she was plainly visible to the oncoming swarm of males they ignored her and settled upon a twig a chairbottom a bit of flannel or a few dry leaves where she had reposed and affixed her subtile aroma.
Even smooth clean surfaces retained her emanation after contact with her and lured the male in her absence.
Neither strong stenches made by napthaline tobacco or sul1 Social Life in the Insect World 1912 pp.
179216. phuretted hydrogen nor penetrating perfumes exhaled by spikelavender diffused through the laboratory prevented the flocking of males to the wiregauze cage of the female.
The removal of the antennae of the males did not settle the question whether these organs were noses.
A sick and sore insect cannot be depended upon for the solution of problems.
None of the maimed males lived more than a day or two after the surgical operation.
Their natural span of life was too short for the recovery of normal health necessary to physiological experimentation.
In my work upon the antenna of the ant I found that this organ is a compound nose every segment being a subnose capable of discerning a certain odor while insensitive to all other odors.If the antennae of moths and butterflies be constructed on the same plan as are the antennae of the ants each subnose having power to discern a particular otlor then it may be that certain species of moths and butterflies possess while other species lack the subnose that perceives the effluvium of the adolescent female whose ephemeral existence makes early mating necessary to the continuance of the tribe.
The result of the elision of the whole of both antennae would not reveal the answer to the question concerning a subnose.
Surgery would needs be applied segment by segment until the subnose discerning the female effluvium should be discovered through abnormal behavior produced by no other cause than the elimination of that particular segment.
One species having antennae might possess this subnose while another species having antennae might lack this subnose and in this difference in the line or series of subnoses would lie the cause of unlike behavior in species apparently endowed with similar organs of smell.
A curious and unexplained instinct in insects generally impels them to deposit their eggs upon substances that are the natural food of the larvae hatched from the eggs.
Since the mature insect does not eat the sort of food upon which the larvae subsist and grow and since the pupastage in some cases continuing many months intervenes between the larval period and the emergence in mature form it seems improbable that memory of the gustatory joys of her own larval existence or an intelligent foresight in provision for her young is what induces the mother insect to deposit her eggs on the nutriment required by the larvae issuing therefrom.
The possession of an olfactory organ a subnose discerning the chemical constituents of the nourishment ingested in her own earliest days may account for the habitual behavior of the insect in choosing to deposit her eggs in a place that will favor the continuance of her tribe.
The tiny truffle hunting beetle Balhoceras gallicus infallibly reaching its sole food by digging a vertical tunnel of from twelve to 2 See bibliography under  Certain vesicles found in the integument of Ants in the Proceedings for February 1915.
 Fabre Social Life in the Insect World pp.
217237. fifteen inches from the surface of the ground to its subterranean sustenance probably has a subnose that smeUs nothing save the fungus whose odor emanates from the sandy soiL There is great significance in tlie fact that spiders and scorpions having no practical use for the sense of smell in their habitual activities have no antennae.
Summary.
 If moths and butterflies like certain ants have a compound nose then one of the subnoses guiding the habitual activities of the male insect may function exclusively in cUscerning the odor of the adolescent female.
Elision of the whole antennae would then prevent as it possibly did in the case of Fabre's Oak Eggers a return under the allurement offered by the female.
Moths and butterflies normalllacking such a subnose would not be subject to this particular lure although the antennae Avere intact.
This hypothesis fits the phenomena and explains what has heretofore been considered mysterious.
Jacob Parsons Schaeffer M.D. was elected a member.
The following were ordered printed
