Notes ON THE ANATOMY OF OreohelixITH A CATALOGUE OF THE SPECIES.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
The present study is based chiefly upon material collected by Messrs. Junius Henderson and L. E. Daniels in Utah and southern Idaho.
1 Its object is to determine the characters of the reproductive organs and teeth of the species of this area both as an aid in the discrimination of the species and to afford a basis for comparison in further work on the genus.
The new catalogue of the species and minor forms of Oreohelixppended embodies the results of study in the museum and field from time to time during the past ten or fifteen years.
2 The genus Oreohelixs one of the most difficult groups of land snails within our boundaries by reason of the multiplicity of forms and the strange parallelism of shell characters sometimes existing between species or races not directly related.
This has led to erroneous identifications with consequent errors in the data of geographic distribution.
The shell seems to be especially plastic  not only are there many local races of various grades of differentiation but in any colony of some of the species one finds a wide range of variation in the features usually depended on for specific discrimination such as absolute size height of the spire width of the umbilicus relative to the diameter and development of the sculpture.
Sometimes colored and white individuals exist in the same colony.
If the banded pattern is primitive in the strigosa and cooperi groups as seems highly probable then it appears that bandless or white mutations have arisen independently in many colonies where they sometimes exist with the earlier pattern apparently in hybrid populations.
Eightysix names have been proposed for forms of all grades many of these are quite insufficiently defined and no doubt part 1 For data relating to the localities and shells collected reference must be made to their paper Hunting Mollusca in Utah and Idaho.
A few species collected by Mr. jas.
H. Ferriss and the author are also considered.
2 The writer has personally collected ten of the twentyfour species known.
All of the species and subspecies are contained in the collection of the Academy except the following 0. bruneri Ancey 0. cooperi stantoni Dall and 0. strigosa imilaris Dawson.
of them are superfluous either because they are synonymous with other nanus or because they denote variations not of racial value.
In many cases further collections are requisite as the small assorted series of the earlier collectors give no adequate idea of the association of forms in the colonies.
Moreover the location of colonies has often been carelessly recorded entailing much strenuous field work on the investigator of today work which could have been saved by carefully noting the locations of type localities.
Distribution of Oreohelix
The genus is almost confined to the western mountain region of the United States but there is one species in southern Assiniboia and one near the southern boundary of Alberta.
Formerly one species extended eastward to eastern Iowa.
Southward the genus practically reaches the Mexican boundary in the Big Hachet mountains of Xew Mexico and the Huachucas of Arizona and it will probably be found below the boundary.
An outlying species on Catalina Island California is widely remote from its kindred among alien associates.
A northern and a southern area of speciation may be distinguished.
The southern group occupies the southern half of New Mexico Arizona south of the Colorado River and Catalina Island California.
It comprises all of the recent species of the subgenus Radiocentrumand the species of Oreohelixroper which have swollen penes.
Species as follows 0. concentrata.
Radiocentrum
0. metcalfei.
0. avaloiensis.
0. pilsbryi.
0. chiricahuana.
0. yavapai.
0. clap pi.
0. barbata.
0. ferrissi.
0. socori'oejisis.
0. hachetana.
0. cooperi.
Several of these species have one or more subspecies.
0. cooperi occurs only at considerable elevations and in forms differing somewhat from northern specimens.
0. yavapai has been found also in northwestern Wyoming.
It is one of the widely distributed species.
The other species are special to the southern area.
In the Florida and Dragoon mountains a few imperfect and very old specimens have been recorded doubtfully as 0. strigosa but it seems more likely that they belong to the group with swollen penes some of which resemble 0. strigosa.
The northern group occupies Arizona north of the Colorado and northern New Mexico north to British America and in its greatest amplitude from the Mississippi Eiver pleistocene to eastern Washington.
The most widely spread species is 0. cooperi with 0. strigosa depressa next.
0. haydeni also is spread over a considerable though much smaller area.
Most of the other species and races are relatively local in distribution and many are known from but one or a few contiguous colonies.
Oreohelixooperi still occurs from the Black Hills to Montana and Idaho and from Assiniboia to the southern third of New Mexico and Arizona.
Its range was formerly wider as it is not uncommon in the loess of eastern Iowa.
Its presence there indicates a drier and cooler summer climate than that of eastern Iowa today.
Where I have collected 0. cooperi in the mountain states it is a shell of the  aspen zone.
Oreohelixs rarely if ever found in abundance except where the country rock is limestone.
Some species in areas largely blanketed by later igneous rock seem to be wholly restricted to the limestone outcrops.
They live on the surface in dry weather finding refuge under superficial stones leaves or sticks.
Except 0. barbdta in the Chiricahua mountains I do not remember ever finding Oreohelixelow the surface layer of stones or rocks.
Reproductive Organs of Oreohelix
The genitalia have a general resemblance to the same organs in Ashmunella and Sonorella but there are some differences.
There is never a flagellum though the epiphallus is well developed.
The penispapilla is obsolete or wanting.
The penis consists of a lower segment which is longitudinally ribbed within and an upper segment with thinner walls which are densely papillose within and enclose a larger cavity.
The internally ribbed part is very short in Radiocentrumbut from about a third to over half the total length in Oreohelixroper.
The distal end is truncate or quite shortly bicornute.
In the figures the organs are shown in nearly their natural positions except that in some cases the folds of the penis are slightly opened out to bring the epiphallus into full view.
The specific characters are largely a matter of measurements of the epiphallus and penis and its parts.
These measurements are taken with dividers after pulling the organs straight but without stretching.
Thus PI.
20 fig.
la and PI.
22 fig.
la show the penes of two species pinned out for measuring after drawing figures in the natural positions.
All figures were drawn with an Abbe camera lucida
In these Proceedings for 1905 p. 271 a grouping of the species of Oreohelixccording to the characters of the genitalia was tentatively advanced.
The examination of many more species and local races in the main confirms the arrangement then proposed.
By the genitalia the species group as follows.
1.
Epiphallus about as long as the penis the retractor muscle inserted upon it internally plicate part of the penis very short animal oviparous etc.
Subgenus Radiocentrum
2.
Epiphallus much shorter than the penis the retractor muscle inserted upon both at their junction except in 0. barbatd internally plicate part of the penis  to over  of its length viviparous species.
Subgenus Oreohelix
a. Penis long the distal part about equal in diameter to the lower part though usually collapsing on account of the thinner walls.
0. strigosa peripherica hendersoni elrodi haydeni and their varieties.
Also 0. cooperi which is somewhat intermediate between groups a and b being a generalized species in genitalia.
b. Penis short the basal part decidedly more swollen than the distal 0. yavapai concentrica metcalfei pilsbryi barbata and their varieties.
The division of Oreohelixnto transversely ribbed smooth or striate and longitudinally ribbed groups by Hemphill and Binney is a division of convenience in the identification of specimens but it has no relation to the affinities of the species.
Teeth of Oreohelix
In Oreohelixhere are two types of teeth as W. G. Binney first pointed out.
In one group the central and inner lateral teeth have no sidecusps or cutting points.
Here belong 0. strigosa Gld..
Binnev T. M. vol.
V PI.
IV fig.
h. 3 0. cooperi W. G.
B..
Binney T. M. vol.
V PI.
IV fig.
g and several examined by myself.
0. haydeni Gabb.
Binney T. M. vol.
V PI.
XVI fig.
b.
Also 0. h. betheli and 0. h. corrugata examined by myself.
0. peripherica Anc.
Binney T. M. vol.
V PI.
XVI fig.
a var.
newcombi.
Also numerous radulse of several forms examined by me from Henderson and Daniel's Stations 29 30 33 36.
3 Just what race of strigosa Binney had remains in doubt.
In the same volume he described and figured the genitalia of a Salmon River strigosa which would presumably be 0. s. jugalis but perhaps O. s. subcarinata.
He gives the formula 50150 for a transverse row of teeth.
As all the other species of Oreohelixxamined by Binney and the writer have between 20120 and 33133 teeth this count is remarkable and if confirmed would certainly indicate a species distinct from any other of which the dentition is known.
344 May 0. strigosa depressa Ckll..
Pilsbry Proc.
A. N. S. Phila.
1905 PL XXII figs.
13 Pecos N. M. also from Colorado Springs near McCammon Idaho and Ogden Canyon Utah.
0. rugosa Hemph..
See fig.
la.
Formula 19 13 1 13 19.
0. metcalfei Ckll..
Formula 17 11 1 11 17.
0. concentrata Dall.
Pilsbry Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1905 p. 276 Form huachucana.
0. yavapai Pils..
Pilsbry Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1905 PI.
XXII fig.
7.
Fig.
1.
 Central and two inner lateral teeth of a Oreohelixugosa and b 0. hendersoni.
In the second group the central and all lateral and marginal teeth have siclecusps.
Of this kind are  O. idahoensis Newc.
Binney T. M. vol.
V PI.
IV fig.
i.
0. hemphilli Newc..
4 Binney T. M. vol.
V PL IV fig.
j.
0. barbata Pils. Pilsbry Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1905 PL XXII fig.
6.
O. chiricahuana Pils. Pilsbrv Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1905 PL XXII figs.
10 11.
0. clappi Ferriss Pilsbry Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1905 PL XXII fig.
4.
In O. clappi the cusps and cutting points on the central teeth are very small.
In O. hendersoni fig.
16 they are small and partly united with the lateral cutting edges of the middle cusp.
This species is transitional to the form of teeth found in O. cooperi O. haydeni and others.
There is therefore no hard and fast line of demarcation between the two groups although nearly all of the species examined are seen at once to belong to one or the other and the form of the teeth is therefore a useful specific character.
Nearly all of the radulse examined have 29 to 33 teeth on each side of the central tooth.
A few have not so many 0. yavapai having 26 O. barbata 23 and 0. hemphilli according to Binney 20.
4 Binney reported O. hemphilli from Manitou Williams Canyon Colorado.
The shell from this place needs comparison with the type of hemphilli.
Whether his figure of the teeth was from the Nevada or the Colorado form is not known.
Fig.
157 Man.
Amer.
Land Shells p. 168 is not very characteristic and if hemphilli it is an immature individual.
The tvpe of O. hemphilli is No.
23060 A. N. S. P. The count of teeth is rather small for a Helicid genus.
Mr. Binney's count for 0. strigosa 50150 is so detached from other known species that it needs confirmation.
Oreohelixtrigosa Gld..
The anatomy of typical 0. strigosa is unknown since we have yet to rediscover the typical form.
Hemphill's var.
parma from Spokane Falls is near the original strigosa but it is larger and more solid.
Further west at Blue Lake in the Grand Coulee there is a small thin race closely resembling jugalis Hemph.
Nothing is known of the soft anatomy of any of the subspecies or races of Washington central and northern Idaho and Montana.
Oreohelixtrigosa depressa CklU.
PI.
19 figs.
1 2 3 4 0 7 pi.
120 fig.
8.
a Specimens from Manitou Canyon near Colorado Springs are taken to be typical depressa fig.
1.
The penis is long from over threefourths to more than the diameter of the shell the internally costate portion is not swollen and is less than half the entire length  usually about onethird.
It has 5 or 6 ribs inside.
The distal portion collapses along three lines so that its section is trefoil shaped.
This is due to three bands where the wall is slightly thicker.
It lies coiled in the body usually showing two principal bends.
The general appearance in different individuals is shown in pi.
19 figures 1 2 also pi.
19 fig.
5 0. s.
fragilis.
The form cornea pi.
19 fig.
3 is identical with depressa anatomically.
6 In another series of specimens dissected the distal part of the penis collapses along two instead of three sides so that its section becomes flattened instead of triangular.
It is also less coiled or twisted than in typical depressa.
This form of penis is shown in pi.
19 figs.
4 and 7 and pi.
20 fig.
8.
The last five measurements in the table on page 346 belong to these.
While the trefoil and the flat forms are almost always readily distinguishable yet in a few specimens of the fiat type I have opened there is some indication of a third ridge in part of the length Stations 43 46 figs.
3 and 6 of plate 19.
The flat type is probably more primitive than the trefoil since it is common to this form of strigosa peripherica and haydeni.
O. s. depressa form tooelensis H. and D. pi.
21 fig.
5 from Station 10 about 6 miles from Tooele Utah agrees with many specimens of depressa in genitalia.
The distal part of the penis is flattened.
The radula of O. s. depressa from Colorado Springs has 16 17 1 17 16 teeth the central and 5 or 6 inner laterals unicuspid.
346 May Oreohelixtrigosa fragilis Hemph..
PI.
19 fig.
5.
Genitalia as in 0. s. depressa the distal portion of the penis collapsing into a trefoil shape in the individual dissected Station 38.
Length of penis 18 mm.
 of internally costate part 5 mm.
 epiphallus 4 penial retractor 6 mm.
 diameter of the shell about 19 mm.
Oreohelixtrigosa buttoni Hemph..
PI.
21 fig.
6.
Genitalia as in form tooelensis 0. s. depressa from Provo and others the penis collapsing flat.
The lower part has 5 ribs within.
Length of penis 25 mm. of internally costate portion 10 of epiphallus 7 mm. penial retractor 15 mm.
 vagina 6.7 mm.
The specimens came from Station 16 Taylor Canyon near Ogden Utah.
Measurements in mm. of the genitalia of Oreohelixtrigosa depressa.
 3 Ji f etraccle.
CH 03 o o .
uc  3  Locality.
tho ate en is   2   ' sn a o .
th o mat due xim nete hell.
CT 1 MS 2Pt5  bC. SP'3 u fcX sjd MSt  3 x e S u g 1 1 C o r C 03 3 C r C las E Colorado Springs Manitou Canyon 18.5 6.5 7.5 11 8 23 Fig.
1 Near Salt Lake City Sta.
43 24 8 6 11 6 25 L'ig13 Emigration Canyon Sta.
46 26.5 11 7 7.5 6.5 25 Fig.
6 Near McCammon Idaho Sta.
2 23.5 7 6.3 10 5.5 27 Fig.
2 28 8.5 7 10.5 21.5 Ogden Canyon Utah Sta.
22 27.5 9 7 15 6 26 Fig.
7 Near Logan Utah Sta.
41 19.5 5.8 5 9 22 19 Fig.
4 Form tooelensis Station 10 17 7 5 7.5 3.6 22 PL 21 Fig.
5 Oquirrh Mts. Station 13 23 8 7 13.5 6.6 22 25 PL 21 Fig.
7 Provo Utah Station 44 20.5 8.5 7.5 7 6.5 23 PL 20 Fig.
8 Oreohelixendersoni Pils.
PI.
20 fig.
7.
The length of the penis is threefourths of the diameter of the shell.
Its internally costate segment is onethird the total length and the distal papillose portion is somewhat flattened.
Length of the epiphallus is contained 2f times in that of the penis.
The penial retractor muscle is shorter than usual in P. strigosa depressa.
l'.lltil 347 The lower third of the spermatheca duct is Large then abruptly contracting.
There is a general similarity with the genitalia of 0. s. depressa.
Measurements in mm.
follow.
Length of penis 12 of its costate lower portion 4 epiphallus 4.5 penial retractor 4 vagina 4 spermatheca and duct 10.5 diam.
of shell 16 mm.
The three areas of the radula appear distinct in a slightly enlarged view the rows of marginal teeth being oblique.
In most Oreohelices the areas are not well marked.
The central tooth and laterals have rudimentary side cusps.
Formula 16 12 1 12 16.
Text fig.
16.
By the forms of the individual teeth and the more distinct differentiation of areas in the radula this species differs from the strigosa series.
Oreohelixaydeni Gabb.
PI.
21 figs.
1.
2 4 8.
0. haydeni does not differ from 0. strigosa depressa in any important or diagnostic characters of the genitalia or dentition but the features of the shell seem quite sufficient to give it specific rank.
The typical form from Weber Canyon in the Wasatch Range has not been collected alive so far as I know.
The forms examined agree pretty closely in soft anatomy.
The internally costate part of the penis is about onethird of the total length.
The distal portion collapses flat.
The penial retractor is decidedly shorter in subsp.
corrugata and hybrida than in subsp.
betheli and gabbiana.
This is probably not a character of much importance.
The retractor is sometimes continued in the lung floor for some distance as in pi.
21 figs.
2 and 8.
Only the free part is measured in the table.
In hybrida the penis is more twisted than in the other forms at least in the individual dissected.
In all the forms the distal part of the penis collapses more or less flat.
0. h. betheli has four unequal ribs in the lower part.
Length of penis.
rt X sibg a tc.3 i o 03 .
O Sh oq o .
 .5 6  .E L .
zL ti  U  z ri D.8  Length of spermatheca and duct.
Approximate diameter Of shell.
Plate 21.
0. h. betheli  .
h. gabbiana 0. h. corrugata 0. h. hybrida 19 Hi lti.. Hi 6 18  i 11 5 7 4 5 7.5 21 5.5 5 17 4 15 5 Fig.
2 5.5 Fig.
1 5 Fig.
4 5 Fig.
8 24 348 May In 0. h. betheli and 0. h. corrugata the central and inner lateral teeth are unicuspid but there are narrow cutting edges overhanging from the central cusps in place of side cusps.
Oreohelixaydeni mixta n. subsp.
The shell is whitish with the early whorls clay color the last whorl sometimes having two narrow brown bands the upper one ascending the spire.
Sculpture often equal rather fine deeply cut growthwrinkles cut by spiral engraved lines unequally developed and on the base often grouped so as to leave spiral bands of long granules at intervals.
Periphery angular or subangular in front becoming rounded on the rest of the last whorl.
Embryonic shell having irregular radial ripples and the usual very fine spiral striation on the last whorl some coarse spirals  peripheral carina strongly pinched out.
Height 18.3 diam.
12 mm.
 umbilicus 3.6 mm.
The genitalia pi.
21 fig.
3 resemble the organs of 0. haydeni in proportions the internally ribbed part of the penis being less than half of the total length but thicker than in haydeni perhaps an individual feature.
The distal part has a somewhat trefoil section.
It differs from 0. cooperi by the longer penis relative to the diameter of the shell its length being about equal to the diameter in this form but decidedly less in all of the cooperi I have measured.
The internally costate part is relatively shorter than in cooperi.
Glenwood Springs Colorado on the bluff above the Hotel Colorado among oak leaves and debris on a sandstone and shale ledge above station of 0. h. betheli.
Type No.
94058 A. N. S. P. from No.
447 of Prof. Ellsworth Bethel 1907.
Another lot from Mr. Bethel No.
94796 consists of individuals like the above lot with others having two narrow spiral lines in the usual cooperi positions.
One of this lot whether banded or plain not known was dissected pi.
22 fig.
5.
It agrees with the type in proportions of the penis but the penial retractor and the vagina are shorter.
Measurements of the genitalia in mm.
follow.
Mus.
No.
Length of penis.
Length of internally ribbed part of penis.
Length of epiphallus.
Length of penial retractor.
Length of Diameter vagina.
of shell.
94058... 94796.... 18 17.5 6.8 7.7 6.3 6 IS 8 9 6 18.3 about 18 1916.
349 This is the form which was at one time identified as 0. haydeni gabbiana.
It resembles 0. h. hybrida very closely but the embryonic stage differs.
The last embryonic whorl is not so convex in mixta and its major spirals are more distinct and the radial ripples are more irregular.
The carina is decidedly more prominent and the whorl as a whole is distinctly more depressed.
It is likely that hybrida and mixta are independent forms of the haydeni stock or perhaps separated relics of a prohaydeni race.
Some specimens have much the appearance of cooperi but the genitalia show that there is no real connection.
There is large individual variation in the height of the spire.
The embryonic shell of 0. h. gabbiana has stronger spirals both above and below near the end of the last embryonic whorl its periphery is less pinched out and it is less depressed.
The adult gabbiana is usually more strongly angular or keeled.
Oreohelixeripherica Ancey.
PI.
20 figs l to 6.
In genitalia this species does not differ materially from 0. strigosa depressa b and 0. haydeni.
The internally costate part of the penis is less than half of the total length usually slightly over a third.
The internally papillose distal portion usually collapses flat but one specimen from Station 30 and one from 36 there are weak indications of a third ridge.
The cylindric lower part of the penis has 5 or 6 longitudinal ribs within.
Many specimens were opened from various localities and including nearly smooth fineribbed and coarseribbed white and banded individuals.
Except in size there is very little variation.
Measurements in mm. of the genitalia of Oreohelixeripherica.
Locality.
Length of penis.
Length of costate part of penis.
Length of epiphallus.
Length of penial retractor.
Length of vagina.
Length of spermatheca and duct.
Approximate diameter of shell.
Plate 20.
Station 26 18.5 16 18.5 14 18 18 21 6 6 7.2 6.5 8 6.5 7.5 4 5.5 6 4 4 4.5 5 8.5 o.o 11.5 10 13.5 5.5 4.5 6.6 6 6.5 18 18 21 23.5 1820 1825 19520 20 20 Fig.
4 Station 26 ... Station 29...
Fig.
3 Fig.
6 Fig.
2 Fig.
1 Fig.
5 Station 30.
Station 33 Whitci Station 33 Banded Station 36 350 May The central and inner lateral teeth have no side cusps.
There are about 12 lateral teeth on each side Station 30.
In an individual from Station 36 there are 17 13 1 13 17 teeth.
The transition from lateral to marginal teeth is very gradual in this species so that the exact number of laterals is somewhat uncertain.
Oreohelixugosa Hemphill.
PL 22 figs.
7 7a.
The penis is about twothirds the diameter of the shell therefore shorter than in any form of 0. s. depressa examined.
Its internally costate lower portion is relatively decidedly longer than in 0. s. depressa being over half the total length agreeing with that of 0. cooperi.
Inside the lower part has 5 or 6 fleshy ribs smooth as usual and the upper part has about the same number but they are lower and both ribs and intervals are papillose.
The duct of the spermatheca is longer than in 0. s. depressa.
Two individuals measure  Length of penis.
Length of costate part of penis.
Length of epiphallus Length of penial retractor.
Length of vagina.
Length of spermatheca and duct.
Diameter of shell.
16 16 11 10 6 6.2 7.6 6 29 24.5 There are about 13 lateral teeth on each side the inner 9 to 11 without side cusps.
The transition to marginals is very gradual.
Oreohelixooperi W. G.
B..
PI.
22 figs.
1 2 3 4.
Specimens from Wyoming Utah Colorado and New Mexico have been dissected.
All agree in having the internally costate part of the penis longer than the papillose part which at once differentiates the species from 0. strigosa and 0. peripherica in which the costate part is much shorter than the papillose part.
The penial retractor is short less than half the length of the penis in the smaller specimens but about twothirds the length of penis in the large forms from Yellowstone Park and New Mexico.
The median part of the penis is often somewhat swollen but in other examples this is not noticeable.
The penis has usually four main fleshy ridges in the lower part as in specimens from McCammon Idaho fig.
2 and the Black Range of New Mexico or there may be about 6 unequal ridges fig.
1 Yellowstone Park No.
96973 one of them continuing upwards 1913.1 351 further than the others.
In the Black Range form the ribbed portion projects upwards into the cavity of the papillose part.
Measurements in mm. of the genitalia of Oreohelixooperi.
Locality.
Glenevre Colo. 7000 ft S2.1S5 McCammon Idaho Station 1 Eureka Utah Station 6... O. cooperi maxima.
Yellowstone Park 96973 Black Range X. M. Sta.
26 MS r i.
8.6 4.6 4.3 12 7.5 5.5 12 6.5 5 14.5 8.7 5 15.5 9 5 2.4 5.3 4 10 9 2 3.7 3.7 5 5 11 i 1618 21 22 1516 24 26 Fig.
3 Fig.
2 Fig.
4 Fig.
1 Oreohelixavapai extremitatis Pils.
 Ferr.
PI.
22 figs.
6 6a.
The specimen figured is from Shell Wyoming Pilsbry Nautilus XXVII 1913 p. 50.
The penis is short its lower twothirds swollen upper third cylindric internally there are very low short folds bounded above by a low narrow transverse ridge in the enlarged part the upper part having densely papillose walls.
Fig.
6a represents the penis opened and pinned flat.
The papilla
in the upper portion are represented diagrammatically.
The epiphallus is not quite half as long as the penis.
The base of the spermatheca duct is enlarged as usual.
The uterus contained 8 embryos in the individual figured the largest of 2 whorls.
Length of penis 7 mm. of its internally costate part 4.5 epiphallus 3.3 mm.
 vagina 2 mm.
 spermatheca and duct 13 mm.
The central and 5 or 6 inner lateral teeth have no side cusps.
The seventh lateral has a well developed ectocone.
The jaw is striate as usual in the genus.
The animal is purplish black above and on the sides the sole cream colored.
The embryonic shell has 2 whorls is convex above with an angular not acute periphery.
The first  whorls are convex with irregular growth stria some microscopic spirals then appearing.
The last third of a whorl has about 5 coarse but very low spirals and the cuticle under a high power is seen to be minutely crinkled also on the base.
Oreohelixonoentrata Dall.
PI.
22 fig.
9.
The specimen figured is No.
94343 A. N. S. P. from Miller's Peak Huachuca Mts. Arizona.
The penis is swollen below the middle length 8 mm. length of internally costate part 4.5 mm.
 of epiphallus 4 mm.
 of vagina about 3.6 mm.
Diameter of the shell 15.5 mm.
This agrees substantially with the large form of the same district 0. c. form huachucana Pilsbry Proc.
A. N. S. Phila.
1905 p. 275 pi.
19 fig.
6.
Both differ from 0. strigosa by the swollen penis and relatively larger costate portion which occupies more than half the total length as in 0. cooperi.
My former reference of concentrata and huachucana to 0. strigosa as subspecies was clearly erroneous and due to the fact that I had not dissected enough Oreohelices to appreciate their specific characters.
In the general discussion of the anatomy Proc.
A. N. S. Phila.
1905 p. 271 0. strigosa and huachucana were put in separate divisions.
Oreohelixetoalfei Ckll.
PI.
22 fig.
10.
Collected in abundance by Mr. Ferriss and the writer in the Black Range New Mexico.
The penis resembles that of 0. concentrata and 0. pilsbryi the median portion being much swollen with very thick walls and broad longitudinal ribs inside.
The much narrower twisted upper portion has coarse papillae within and one longitudinal papillose rib.
Length of penis 12 mm. of its internally costate portion 7 mm.
 of epiphallus 4 mm.
 vagina 4 mm.
Diameter of the shell 19.5 mm.
The radula has 12 lateral teeth on each side like those of 0. s. depressa except that the cusps are more slender.
Oreohelixilsbryi Ferriss.
PI.
22 fig.
8.
Genitalia about as in 0. metcalfei.
The swollen part of the penis has about 6 unequal ribs within these project slightly into the cavity of the papillose portion which has one longitudinal rib.
Length of penis 12 of the ribbed portion 7 mm.
 epiphallus 4 mm.
 penial retractor 4 mm.
 vagina '4 mm.
 spermatheca and duct 15 mm.
Diameter of the shell 17.6 mm.
Although the shell of 0. pilsbryi has an astonishing similarity to that of 0. haydeni the genitalia show that there is no direct relationship.
0. metcalfei is closely related to pilsbryi being anatomically indistinguishable.
1916.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
353 Catalogue of species subspecies and other named forms.
Note.
 An asterisk  following a specific or varietal name indicates that a figure of the genitalia has been published by the writer and serves to show what species and subspecies require examination.
Several other subspecies of the Arizonian species have been dissected but not figured.
0. idahoensis Newc.
Coeur d'Alene district Idaho.
O. cooperi W. G.
B..
 Black Hills S. Dakota Rocky Mountains.
Forms trifasciata Ckll. Mesa Co. Colo. confluens Ckll. Garfield and Mesa Cos. Colo. elevata Ckll. Delta Co. Colo. typica Ckll. Colo. minor Ckll. Rouett Co. Colo. iowensis Pils. Loess of Iowa maxima Pils. Yellowstone Park.
0. c. stantoni Dall.
Assiniboia.
0. c. globosula Ckll.
Summit Co. Colo. Syn.
globulosa Pils..
0. c. berryi Pils.
Snowy Mts. Fergus Co. Mont.
0. rugosa Hemph..
 Near Brigham City Utah.
O. peripherica  Ancey .
 Bear River region Northern Utah.
Syn.
 multicostata Hemph.
Forms binneyi castanea albofasciata gouldi Hemph.
0. p. newcombi Hemph..
Near Ogden Utah.
0. p. wasatchensis Hemph..
Near Ogden Utah.
0. pygm.ea Pils.
Near Shell Wyoming.
O. strigosa Gld..
Interior of Oregon.
0. s. parma Hemph..
Spokane Falls Washington.
0. s. jugalis Hemph..
Salmon River Idaho.
0. s. intersum Hemph..
Salmon River Idaho.
0. s. limitaris Dawson.
Waterton Lake MontanaAlberta boundary.
0. s. alpina Elrod.
Mission Range Montana.
Svn.
 montana Elrod.
O. s. subcarinata Hemph..
Rathdrum Idaho.
Forms lactea bicolor and picta Hemph.
Same colony.
O. s. depressa Ckll..
 Near Durango Colo. Southern Idaho to northern Arizona Colo. New Mexico.
Form major Ckll.
Mesa Co. Colo.  sinistrorsa Ckll. Colorado.
cornea Hemph.
 Near Salt Lake City Utah.
albida Hemph.
Near Logan Utah.

Syn. Patula strigosa var.
alba Ckll. preoc. 
tooelensis Hend.
and Dan.
 Near Tooele Utah.
0. s. fragilis Hemph..
 Near Franklin Idaho.
0. s. buttoni Hemph..
 Box Elder Co. Utah also near Ogden.
0. s. magnicornu Pils.
Big Horn Mts. Wyoming.
0. hendersoni Pils.
 Little Thompson Creek 10 miles N. W. of Longmont Colo. 0. h. dakani Hend.
New Castle Colo. 
 rugosa Hemph..
0. haydeni Gabb..
Weber canyon Utah.
0. h. oquirrhensis Hemph..
Oquirrh Mountains Utah.
0. h. gabbiana Hemph..
 Oquirrh Mountains Utah.
0. h. utahensis Hemph..
Oquirrh Mountains Utah.
0. h. corrugata Hend.
and Dan.
 Small nearly isolated mountain southeast of Webster Utah.
0. h. hybrida Hemph..
 Near Logan Utah.
0. h. betheli Pils.
and Ckll.
 Glen wood Springs Colorado.
Form alta Pils.
and Ckll.
Glenwood Springs Colorado.
O. h. mixta Pils.
 Glenwood Springs Colorado.
O. hemphilli Newc.
White Pine mining district Nevada.
O. h. eurekensis Hend.
and Dan.
Eureka Utah.
O. tenuistriata Hend.
and Dan.
Between McCammon and Hot Lava Springs Idaho.
O. carinifera Pils.
Garrison Montana.
0. bruneri Ancey.
Montana.
Not seen by the author and unknown in American collections.
0. elrodi Pils.
 MacDonald Lake Mission Range Montana.
O. yavapai Pils.
 Yavapai Co. Arizona etc.
O. y. neomexicana Pils.
 San Miguel Co. New Mexico.
0. y. compactula Ckll.
Pecos canyon New Mexico.
0. y. extremitatis Pils.
and Ferr.
 Grand Canyon Ariz. also northern Wyoming.
O. y. angelica Pils.
and Ferr.
Grand Canyon Arizona.
0. y. profundorum Pils.
and Ferr.
Grand Canyon Arizona.
0. y. marise Bartsch.
Squaw Creek near mouth Gallatin Canyon Montana.
O. concentrata Dall.
 Huachuca Range Arizona.
Form huachucana Pils.
 Huachuca Range Arizona.
O. metcalfei Ckll.
 Black Range New Mexico.
O. pilsbryi Ferriss.
 Mineral Creek Chloride Sierra Co. New Mexico.
O. barbata Pils.
 Chiricahua Range Arizona also Mogollon Range N. M. 0. b. minima Pils.
and Ferr.
Chiricahua Range Arizona.
O. socorroensis Pils.
Socorro Co. New Mexico.
Subgenus RadiocentrumPils.
O. avalonensis Hemph.
Catalina Island California.
O. CHiRiCAHUANA Pils.
 Cave Creek Canyon near the cave Chiricahua Range Arizona.
0. c. percarinata Pils.
and Ferr.
Big Emigrant Canyon and Paradise Canyon Chiricahua Range Arizona.
0. c. obsoleta Pils.
and Ferr.
White Tail Canyon Chiricahua Range Arizona.
O. clappi Ferriss.
 Cave Creek etc. Chiricahua Range Arizona.
0. c. emigrans Pils.
and Ferr.
Big Emigrant Canyon Chiricahuas.
O. c. cataracta Pils.
and Ferr.
Falls of Cave Creek Chiricahuas.
O. ferrissi Pils.
 Near mouth of Sheridan Canyon Big Hachet Mountains New Mexico.
0. f. morticina Pils.
Daniels Peak Big Hachat Mts. New Mexico.
.
hachbtana Pils.
 Summit of Big Hachet Mt. New Mexico.
0. h. cadaver Pils.
Daniels Peak Big Hachet Mts. X. M. Notes on the preceding list.
In presenting a new catalogue of a genus wherein specific values have been so variously estimated a brief consideration of the growth and changes of opinion on the subject may be in order.
In their work of 1869 Binney and Bland recognized Helix strigosa H. cooperi and H. idahoensis as species no others being then known.
In 1878 Terrestrial Mollusks Vol.
5 Mr. Binney added H. haydeni and H. hemphilU and reduced cooperi to a variety of strigosa.
In his latest general work Manual of American Land Shells 1885 Mr. Binney reduced haydeni to the rank of a variety of strigosa.
After this the remarkable series from Idaho and Utah collected by Henry Hemphill caused Binney to view the entire series of known forms as varieties of stiigosa.
This view was generally accepted as Mr. Binney was conceded to be the leading authority of his time on American land snails.
Mr. Hemphill went further than Binney ranking the whole group as varieties of the Eastern H. alternata Say.
It may be noted here that a relatively small number of species from only a part of the area of the genus were known to Binney and Hemphill.
The last 15 species of the list given above were unknown at that time.
This includes the whole southern group of species having swollen penes and the Radiocentrumgroup with one exception besides various lately discovered northern forms of very distinct appearance.
In dealing with the species and other forms described prior to 1890 we return to Binney's earlier opinion and regard strigosa cooperi idahoensis haydeni and hemphilU as species.
0. peripherica and 0. hendersoni while near strigosa seem to be sufficiently detached to be considered species.
0. rugosa though near cooperi is for the time given specific rank.
Both of these differ specifically from strigosa by the genitalia.
Many of the subspecies now recognized were already defined by Binney and Hemphill as varieties of strigosa.
If the criterion of intergradation with other forms were rigorously applied to them several would be judged species yet in actual practice and as a temporary expedient until the territory is more fully explored we take the degree of differentiation into the account.
In dealing with the forms of single colonies scattered over a great extent of unexplored country our present conclusions must be mere approximations to the facts which future exploration may be expected to bring out.
In treating of forms which are in doubt it seems to me better to attach them as subspecies to a known species rather than to increase the number of illdefined species.
Oreohelices sometimes have strongly marked conchological features but when this is not the case species should not be established in my opinion without anatomical examination.
It seems likely that some forms now considered subspecies of 0. strigosa will be elevated to specific rank when their areas are well explored and their soft anatomy worked out.
The forms of the list above are of unequal value but all are inserted in order that all names proposed may appear in the list.
Some of them are mere synonyms some are color or size forms from heterogeneous colonies in which several mutations are perpetuated in hybrid populations 6 such as I have described in Achatinella.
6 Others are races probably deserving recognition in nomenclature.
Much more study must be put on Oreohelixefore we can confidently assign all the forms to their approximately proper rank.
0. cooperi W. G.
B..
No serious study of the races and forms of this widespread species has recently been made.
Many years ago Professor Cockerell proposed several varietal names but in the absence of figures the application of some of them as well as their status has been uncertain.
A recent communication from Professor Cockerell quoted below elucidates them so far as possible in the present condition of the subject.
1 typica  0. cooperi s. str.
2 confluens.
3 trifasciata.
Color band variations of cooperi common and well known to us here.
Not in any sense special races.
Type specimen of confluens is in U. S. N. M. 4 elevata.
A form of cooperi with more elevated spire.
Merely an extreme of the ordinary variation of the species riot a race.
5 minor.
The name was originally given in Nautilus May 1889 p. 8 and referred to a small form cited by Hemphill.
Later I found what I considered to be the same in Colorado apparently a distinct race.
Henderson has used the name for a race in recent years.
Now we are both uncertain whether the name should be applied in this sense.
It is a fact that in certain localities the shells are small and constitute a minor race but whether all the various colonies of this type have any connection with one another may be questioned.
The original intention was to follow the European custom and call all the shells below a certain size minor not regarding the variety as a race or subspecies in any sense.
Henderson and I after consultation agree that the status of minor must be considered subject to revision.
6 globosula.
This we have and can recognize it as a peculiar variation which occurs in the Glenwood Springs district.
It occurs in small numbers on the south side of the river along with the other forms.
It may be a hybrid of 5 See the valuable observations of Daniels.
Nautilus XXV 1911 p. 18.
6 Manual of Conchology Vol.
XXII.
some sort.
It does not seem to be a distinct race or subspecies but it is not found in other parts of the state so far as we know.
The type locality is some distance from the Glenwood Springs locality but a wide range does not appear probable.
We can affirm I think that this is not a mere variation of the ordinary type such as confluens etc.
 but whether it is a distinct race may well be doubted.
Further research is needed.
7 depressa.
This you know well.
8 major.
Simply a large depressa not a race.
9 sinistrorsa.
Sinistral examples.
Brit.
Naturalist. 
Thus only two names are at all doubtful and here the doubt is essentially one as to the facts of nature rather than of nomenclature.
Theo.
D. A.
Cockerell.
0. cooperi form maxima is a shell with about the typical shape of cooperi but of large size the type measuring alt.
17.6 diam.
26 mm. umbilicus 5 mm. whorls 5i more rounded than in 0. strigosa depressa.
There is a band at another above the periphery and below the suture a wider paler one interrupted into maculae.
Genitalia pi.
22 fig.
1 normal for cooperi.
The type is from Yellowstone National Park 10 miles southwest of Jardine Montana No.
96973 A. N. S. P. collected by E. M. Kindle.
Other specimens are from Grade Canyon near Cokeville Uinta Co. Wyoming collected by Mr. J.
A. G. Rehn.
One of these measures alt.
17.7 diam.
26 mm.
In addition to the markings described above it has a few faint brown circular lines on the base.
Form iowensis Pils.
is quite small height 7.7 diam.
11.4 umbilicus 2.6 mm. with 4f whorls.
There is a reddish band just under the periphery and the initial whorl is very convex and smooth.
It is from the loess typelocality Iowa City Iowa.
It probably stands close to stantoni which still exists in an environment perhaps not very unlike the loess climate of Iowa.
0. p. wasatchensis is so peculiarly modified that one is strongly inclined to give it specific rank.
The elevated spire the compactly coiled whorls and the peripheral carina all differentiate it from 0. peripherica.
Yet 0. p. newcombii stands almost intermediate between wasatchensis and peripherica.
It does not differ from the coarsest examples of the latter in form or ribbing but it has a delicate peripheral keel which continues as far usually as the last whorl whereas 0. peripherica has no keel in the later neanic and the adult stages.
Possibly both newcombi and wasatchensis may eventually be ranked as species but until further collections can be made I leave them associated with 0. peripherica with the note that at present we do not have actual evidence of intergradation.
In this connection we may allude to the status of 0. pygmcea which may turn out to be a subspecies of 0. peripherica yet here again evidence of intergradation is wanting.
Explanation of Plates XIX XX XXI XXII.
Note.
 The stations referred to are those of Messrs. Henderson and Daniels Expedition of 1915.
Plate XIX.
 Fig.
1.
 Oreohelixtrigosa depressa Ckll.
Manitou Canyon Colorado Springs Colo.
Fig.
2.
 0. s. depressa Ckll.
Harkness Canyon near McCammon Idaho Station 2.
Fig.
3.
 0. s. depressa form carnea Hemph..
Drv Canyon near Salt Lake City Utah Station 43.
Fig.
4.
 0. s. depressa Ckll..
First gulch south of Logan Canyon east of Logan Utah Station 41.
Fig.
5.
 O. s. fragilis Hemph..
About a mile west of Franklin Idaho Station 38.
Penis only figured.
Fig.
6. 0. s. depressa Ckll..
About a mile up Emigration Canyon southeast of Salt Lake City Utah Station 46.
Fig.
7.
 0. s. depressa Ckll..
Ogden Canyon Utah Station 22.
Plate XX.
 Fig.
1.
 Oreohelixeripherica Aneey.
Ravine in east bluff of Bear River just below Wheelon Utah Station 33 banded form la penis of same pulled straight with epiphallus.
Fig.
2.
 0. peripherica Anc.
Same station white form.
Fig.
3.
 0. peripherica Anc.
East bank of Bear River below Cache Junction Utah Station 29.
3a penis of same opened to show internal structure.
Fig.
4.
 0. peripherica Anc.
Gulch opening into North Ogden Canyon Station 26.
A relatively smooth specimen.
Fig.
5.
 0. peripherica Anc Mountain northeast of Newton Utah Station 36.
Smooth form of the species.
.
Fig.
6.
 0. peripherica Anc.
East bank of Bear River below Cache Junction Utah Station 30.
Fig.
7.
 Oreohelixendersoni Pils. one of the original lot.
Fig.
8.
 Oreohelixtrigosa depressa Ckll..
Rock Canyon east of Provo Utah Station 44.
Plate XXI.
 Fig.
1.
 Oreohelixaydeni gabbiana Hemph..
Oquirrh Mts. Station 15.
Fig.
2.
 Oreohelixaydeni betheli Pils.
and Ckll.
Glenwood Springs Colorado.
No.
94059 A. N. S. P. Fig.
3.
 0. haydeni mixta Pils.
Glenwood Springs Colorado.
No.
94058 A. N. S. P. Fig.
4.
 Oreohelixaydeni corrugata Hend.
and Dan.
Small mountain southeast of Webster Utah Station 40.
Fig.
5.
 Oreohelix. depressa form tooelensis Hend.
and Dan.
About 6 miles northeast of Tooele Utah Station 10.
Fig.
6.
 Oreohelixtrigosa buttoni Hemph..
Taylor Canyon near Ogden Utah Station 16.
Fig.
7 '.Oreohelixtrigosa depressa Ckll..
Oquirrh Mountains Utah Station 13.
Fig.
8.
 Oreohelixaydeni hybrida Hemph..
Gulch south of Logan Canyon Station 42.
Plate XXII.
 Fig.
1.
 Oreohelixooperi W. G.
B.
 form maxima Pils.
Yellowstone National Park.
No.
96973 A. N. S. P. Fig.
2.
 0. cooperi W. G.
B..
McCammon Idaho Station 1.
Fig.
3. O. cooperi W. G.
B..
Gleneyre Colorado.
No.
82185 A. N. S. P. Fig.
4.
 O. cooperi W. G.
B..
Eureka Utah Station 6.
Fig.
5.
 O. haydeni mixta Pils.
Glenwood Springs Colorado.
No.
94796 A. N. S. P. Fig.
6.
 Oreohelixavapai extremitatis Pils.
and Ferr.
Shell Wyoming.
6a penis of same opened with the epiphallus.
PLATE XIX.
PILSBRY ANATOMY OF Oreohelix
PLATElXX.
PILSBRY ANATOMY OF Oreohelix
PLATE XXI.
PILSBRY ANATOMY OF Oreohelix
PLATE XXII.
PILSBRY ANATOMY OF Oreohelix
Fig.
7.
 Oreohelixugosa Hemph..
Near Clarkston Utah Station 3.
i.
penis of same pulled straight.
Fig.
8.
 Oreohelixilsbryi Ferriss.
Typespecimen.
Fig 9  Oreohelixona ulrntn Dall.
Huachuca Alts. Arizona.
No.
94343 A. N. S. P. Fig.
10. Oreohelixetcalfei Ckll.
Black Range New Mexico Pilsbry and Ferriss Station 15 1915.
SOME BEES FROM AUSTRALIA TASMANIA AND THE NEW HEBRIDES.
BY T. D. A. COCKERELL.
In a paper published in Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1913 pp.
2844 I gave a summary of the then known beefauna of Australia.
During the last two years additional material has come to hand and the present paper represents the completion of the later work so far as the material now available permits.
Perhaps the most interesting problem now before us in connection with the new collections is that of the radical difference between the beefaunae of Tasmania and New Zealand.
It becomes increasingly evident that while Tasmania is very poor in genera as compared with the Australian mainland it is extremely rich in species in comparison with New Zealand.
There can be no doubt that careful collecting in New Zealand will yield a number of additional species but it is impossible to believe that it will at all approach Tasmania in the extent of its beefauna.
The Tasmanian bees are very close to those of Australia and many are even identical showing clearly the derivation of the fauna.
The New Zealand fauna is also wholly of Australian type but extremely poor in genera and species.
Isolation has prevented the accession of species from across the water but one would expect a much greater development of endemic forms something more or less parallel with the condition in the Hawaiian Islands.
The New Zealand species are all endemic  Prosopis vicina Sichel was said to occur in Tasmania and New Zealand but it was almost certainly based on a mixture and the name is to be restricted to the New Zealand species.
Andrena infima Erichs. from Tasmania is probably but not certainly Halictus lanarius Smith.
Mr. MeadeWaldo of the British Museum agrees with me that Paracolletes providus Sm.
is P. chalybeatus Erichs.
The species which Smith called chalybeatus Mr. MeadeWaldo thinks should be united with P. obscurus Sm.
With these amendments the lists for Tasmania and New Zealand stand as follows.
The Tasmanian species also found on the Australian mainland are marked with an asterisk.
Tasmania.
79 species.
Prosopis alcyonea Erichs.
 Prosopis perhumUis Ckll.
 honesta Sm.
xanthospheera Ckll.
King I.
hobartiana Ckll.
accipitris Ckll.
1916.
361 Pachyprosopis Jluvicauda Ckll.
 Euryglossa waUeeriana Ckll.
nigroccerulea Ckll.
 fastiatella Ckll.
 latissiina Ckll.
nvbilipi nn is Ckll.
Callomelitta picta Sm.
  Ckll.
Binghamiella antipodes insularis Ckll.
Paracolletes chalybeatus Erich.
 obscurus Sm.
viridicinctus Ckll.
obscuripennis Ckll.
hobartensis Ckll.
carinatus Sm.
 melbournensis Ckll.
 ecu Ckll.
margined its Sm.
 launcestonensis Ckll.
sitbriridis Ckll.
Nomia submccrens Ckll.
Halictus orbatus Sm.
 cognatus Sm.
limatus Sm.
globosus Sm.
reprcesentans Sm.
 furneauxi Ckll.
fcftfyn Ckll.
6ass Ckll.
baudini Ckll.
boweni Ckll.
demissas Ckll.
imitons Ckll.
 seductus Ckll.
 semi poll tits expulsus Ckll.
macrops Ckll.
Hal id ks confusellu8 Ckll.
familuiris Erich.
warburtoni  Jkll.
mitchelli Ckll.
frwrfcei CHI.
lanarius Sm.
 hoematopus  Jkll.
Kttteri CHI.
cyclognathus Ckll.
 opacicollis  Jkll.
 niveifrons Ckll.
disclusus Ckll.
isthmalis Ckll.
subinclinans Ckll.
pulvitectus Ckll.
tasmanioe Ckll.
Parasphecodes tilachus Sm.
lithusca Sm.
talchius Sm.
stiichila Sm.
alt i chits Sm.
taluchis Sm.
7ecessus Ckll.
pei'itstus Ckll.
rhodopterus Ckll.
rufotegularis Ckll.
cervicalis Ckll.
latissimus Ckll.
excitltus Ckll.
wellingtoni Ckll.
turneri Ckll.
Megachile Uncopyga Sm.
chrysopyga Sm.
 ordinaria Sm.
tasmanica Ckll.
Exoneura bicolor Sm.
 hamulata Ckll.
 New Zealand.
18 species.
Prosopis agilis Sm.
agfi7is laevigata Sm.
capitosa Sm.
innocens Cam.
maoriana Ckll.
relegata Sm.
cameroni Ckll.
sulcifrons Cam.
vidua Sich.
Paracolletes boltoni Ckll.
confusns Ckll.
Paracolletes imitatus Sm.
fulvescens Sm.
metallicus Sm.
pur pure us Sm.
vest it us Sm.
maorium Ckll.
Halictus huttoni Cam.
smithii D. T.  jinn iliu r is Sm.
sordid us Sm.
Pachyprosopis saturnina Ckll.
Perth Australia Feb. 17 1914.
R. E. Turner Brit.
Museum.
The markings vary the yellow at anterior corners of mesothorax may be extended curving round to make two bands on anterior part of disc there may be a large yellow extension of lateral facemarks mesad of lower end of facial fovea
 the scutellum in the Perth form is practically all yellow.
Euryglossina hypochroma sp.
n. 9.
Length about 3.75 mm.
 robust head and thorax shining black abdomen dark faintly purplish above but clear reddishyellow below legs clear yellowishferruginous the anterior femora sometimes mainly black on outer side mandibles chestnut red dark at tip a large yellowish spot on cheeks just above base of mandibles clypeus and supraclypeal band fulvotestaceous perhaps yellower in life  a very slender fulvous line running up inner orbits as far as facial fovese scape with a light stripe flagellum thick clear fulvous beneath head large subquadrate front convex shining tubercles clear yellow mesothorax shining with extremely minute and sparse punctures the disc microscopically cancellate tegulae testaceous wings hyaline nervures and the large stigma sepia b. n. strongly arched first r. n. joining first s. m. second s. m. subquadrate extreme apex of abdomen ferruginous.
Hob. Perth W. Australia Feb. 17 1914 R. E. Turner Brit.
Museum.
2 9 Allied to E. perpusilla Ckll.
 but larger and more robust with fulvous clypeus etc.
It resembles Pachyprosopis atromicans Ckll. but is easily separated by the color of the femora much smaller second s. m. etc.
Euryglossina flaviventris sp.
n. 9.
Type.
Length about 3.75 mm.
 head and thorax black abdomen black with a faint purplish tint above the venter clear yellow the extreme lateral margins and the apex rather broadly the light color more extensive than in E. hypochroma also yellow legs bright yellow anterior femora sometimes marked with black hind tibiae and tarsi dark brown on outer side mandibles fulvous a small fulvous spot on cheeks next to base of mandibles linear lateral facemarks as in E. hypochroma upper half of clypeus and a supraclypeal band yellow antennae fulvous beneath front shining mesothorax microscopically tessellate tubercles yellow.
c
.
Clypeus supraclypeal area and comparatively broad lateral facemarks yellow the pattern essentially as in E. perpusilla the lateral facemarks have a small projection opposite antennae.
Hab.
 Mt.
Yule Healesville Victoria Feb. 20 1915 on Eucalyptus calophylla rosea 3 91 d 1 .
R. Kelly Brit.
Museum.
Very close to E. hypochroma from which the female is known by the dark lower part of clypeus and the more broadly light apex of abdomen.
A
very close to E. perpusilla Ckll. but larger with more lighl color on abdomen.
It may be better regarded as a subspecies of E. perpusillaj but it appears quite distinct.
Euryglossina perpusilla var.
nana a. v. 9.
Length hardly 3 mm.
 abdomen wholly dark above yellow beneath clypeus and supraclypeal area wholly black as in E. cockerelli Perkins  linear lateral facemarks poorly developed or absent stigma dilute sepia.
Hob. Kalamunda S. W. Australia Feb. 928 1914 2 9  also one March 111.
1914 850 ft. R. E. Turner Brit Museum.
Compared with typical E. perpusilla this looks distinct but the Queensland perpusilla are so variable that it seems impossible to distinguish more than a variety.
Some Mackay females lack the supraclypeal band.
Binghamiella antipodes insularis Ckll..
Mr. Littler has taken both sexes of Binghamiella at George Town Tasmania March 1915.
The males agree with my B. insularis the females are what has passed as B. antipodes from Tasmania but have the same essential distinctive characters as the males.
There is sufficient reason for regarding the Tasmanian bee as a subspecies but hardly a species.
Euryglossa depressa sparsa subsp.
n. 9 .
Differs from E. depressa Sm.
by the very sparsely though very strongly punctured scutellum and the anterior middle of mesothorax with scattered irregular punctures instead of very numerous fine ones also by having the nagellum ferruginous beneath though this is variable and sometimes very obscure.
It is readily known from E. subsericea Ckll.
by the darker brownstained wings facial quadrangle shorter etc.
The mesothorax and scutellum are much more sparsely punctured than in E. nigrocoerulea Ckll.
Hab.
 Mt.
Yule Healesville.
Victoria Feb. 20 1915 on Eucalyptus calophylla rosea  R. Kelly Brit.
Museum.
3 9.
Smithdescription is insufficient to indicate which is the typical race of E. depressa but I have taken as such the form which appears to be common in Victoria.
25 Prosopis extensa sp.
n. 9 .
Length about 4 mm.
 slender with long metathorax and subclavate abdomen looking like some small Pemphredomd wasp black the front with an extremely obscure greenish tint the thorax dull with the prothorax pleura and posterior face of metathorax shining abdomen shining head not far from round in front view mandibles labrum linear lateral face marks ending about level of antenna lower margin and greater part of disc of clypeus yellowishferruginous the pale color on clypeus ending suffusedly above labial palpi with the second joint remarkably short and stout almost globose the third and fourth cylindrical the third twice as wide as the fourth maxillary palpi with the basal part stout the second joint longest the sixth tapering at end antennae rather slender scape yellow in front flagellum pale ferruginous beneath front minutely punctured vertex elevated rounded narrow ridgelike upper border of prothorax and the tubercles white mesothorax densely sculptured with minute punctures and strise area of metathorax very large and long minutely cancellate legs black the anterior tibiae pale ferruginous in front tegulae piceous wings hyaline nervures and the large stigma piceous b. n. falling far short of t. m.  first r. n. reaching first s. m. a considerable distance from its apex second s. m. very small quadrate abdomen with microscopic transverse lineolation.
Hab.
 Mt.
Yule Healesville Victoria on Eucalyptus calophylla rosea Feb. 20 1915 R. Kelly Brit.
Museum.
A very peculiar little insect with Euryglossina venation.
It is perhaps most like P. scintilliformis Ckll. from which it is known at once by the venation.
It is by no means a typical Prosopis.
Prosopis aralis sp.
n. 9 .
Like P. perhumilis which was collected on the same plant at same time and place but the white facemarks are extended the broad clypeal band having below on apical margin of clypeus a transverse narrow band extending on each side at right angles while the supraclypeal area has a broadly triangular light mark the clypeal marking thus resembling an altar with pedestal at base the offering represented by the supraclypeal mark hind tibiae with more than basal third pale all the basitarsi creamcolor.
The basal nervure nearly reaches t. m. Hab.
 Mt.
Yule Healesville Victoria on Eucalyptus calophylla rosea Feb. 20 1915 R. Kelly Brit.
Museum 2 9 .
Possibly a variety of P. perhumilis but apparently distinct.
In the coloration of the legs it resembles P. accipitris Ckll. from Tasmania.
Prosopis scintilliformis Ckll.
9.
Length about 4.75 nun.
 black similar to P. perhumilis and oralis but more slender mandibles white rufous at end narrow creamywhite bands along anterior orbits to level of antennae clypeus and supraclypeal area entirely black first r. n. meeting first t. c. legs marked as in oralis.
Scape with a light stripe in front fiagellum pale fulvous beneath tubercles and transverse marks on prothorax creamcolor.
cf.
Length about 4 mm.
 slender like the 9 face below antenna
including transverse supraclypeal mark and lateral marks with pointed extensions upward at sides all very pale ochreous perhaps yellower in life.
The facepattern is like that of the larger and more robust P. perhumilis except that the lateral marks have their inner side longer extending to beyond the middle of the supraclypeal mark.
Both have the fourth antennal joint extremely short.
Hob.
 Mt.
Yule Healesville on Eucalyptus calophylla rosea Feb. 20 1915 R. Kelly Brit.
Museum.
3 91 d 1 .
The species was described 1913 from a single female collected at Croydon.
The male is very distinct from P. minuscula Ckll.
Prosopis trimerops sp.
a.
9 .
Length about or hardly 4 mm.
 another species of the type of P. perhumilis but very minute robust facemarks rufofulvous probably yellower in life consisting of a broad clypeal band broad lower margin of clypeus leaving longcuneiform black areas at sides of clypeus narrow lateral facemarks which end acutely on orbital margin a little above level of antenna and large supraclypeal mark which is broad below more narrowed above and ends in a broad truncation between the antennae the supraclypeal area is convex scape with a light stripe fiagellum fulvous beneath thorax robust mesothorax finely lineolate and punctured upper border of thorax without pale marks and tubercles with only a very narrow yellow edge legs marked nearly as in P. aralis but hind basitarsi with only the basal half pale b. n. almost meeting t. m.  second s. m. broad receiving first r. n. near its base.
Hob. Yallingup S. YV.
Australia Nov. 1913 2 9 R. E. Tun Brit.
Museum.
Prosopis vittatifrons Ckll.
Perth Australia Feb. 17.
L914 .
E. Turner Brit.
Museum.
Paracolletes halictiformis sp.
a.
9.
Length about 8 mm. rather robust with short wings black with mostly white pubescence head broad mandibles red.
black at base and apex clypeus closely and very strongly punctured but shining between the punctures sides of face and cheeks with conspicuous pure white hair front extremely densely punctured the punctures strong but much smaller than those on clypeus area behind ocelli with erect fuscous hair flagellum short ferruginous beneath apically  mesothorax and scutellum with very dense distinct punctures longitudinal median groove of mesothorax distinct  mesothorax and scutellum with evident pale hair around the edges but otherwise only with thin short brownish hair not hiding the surface postscutellum with a tubercle from which arises a large spreading tuft of hair partly brownish and partly whitish area of metathorax rugulose basally margin finely beaded posterior face of metathorax with a large deep pit legs black the hind tibiae red the middle and hind basitarsi very broad hind tibial scopa large sordid white suffused with brown behind tegulse rufotestaceous wings dusky stigma small dark reddish nervures fuscous b. n. just reaching t. m. second s. m. receiving first r. n. slightly before middle third s. m. receiving second r. n. nearly as far from end as first r. n. is from first t. c abdomen thick very finely punctured hind margins of segments brownish segments 24 with conspicuous white marginal hairbands interrupted or very thin in middle of 2 hair at apex dark fuscous.
Hob  Yallingup S. W. Australia Dec. 1 to Jan. 23 191314.
R. E. Turner Brit.
Museum.
A peculiar little species resembling Halictus.
It may best be compared with P. sigillatus Ckll. but it is smaller than that with much more closely punctured mesothorax.
It may also be compared with the much larger P. perfasciatus Ckll.
Halictus urbanus Smith.
Kalamunda S. W. Australia Mch.
14Apl.
14 1914 R. E. Turner Brit.
Museum.
1 9 .
This species as I have recognized it varies considerably in size and the color of the legs it may be composite.
The Kalamunda specimen is small with red tibiae and tarsi and agrees with one from Brisbane.
This appears to be the true H. urbanus the larger form 9 slightly over 6 mm.
long with black legs comes from Stradbroke Island H. Hacker and certainly would pass for a distinct species were it not connected by intermediates.
This Stradbroke I. form may take the name variety stradbrokensis  nov. Halictus mundulus sp.
n. 9 .
Length about 5 mm.
 black with the mesothorax and scutellum dark bluishgreen pubescence scanty dull white no abdominal hands or patches head broad mandibles ferruginous dusky apically and black at extreme base flagellum clear ferruginous beneath mesothorax moderately shining scutellum more polished area of metathorax semilunar densely irregularly wrinkled the obtuse margin shining knees tibiae and tarsi ferruginous the tibia with obscure dusky suffusion tegulae amber color wings hyaline stigma and nervures pale testaceous first r. n. meeting second t. c outer r. n. and t. c. colorless and very thin abdomen broad polished with very thin pubescence hind margins of segments obscurely reddish caudal rima bright ferruginous hair of venter long but no1 curled to form a true scopa.
Microscopical characters clypeus very sparsely punctured front striate with punctures between the straiae third antennal joint extremely short fourth a little longer fifth still longer mesothorax lineolate with scattered punctures abdomen with extremely minute punctures best developed on firt segment hind spur with one very large obtuse tooth like the last joint of a finger and one very low rounded lamella.
Hob. Kalamunda S. W. Australia Mch.
14Apl.
14 1914 R. E. Turner Brit.
Museum.
Allied to H. urbanus but with the mesothorax quite differently colored.
It may also be compared with H. humilis but is quite distinct.
Halictus brazieri sp.
n. cf .
Length 11 mm.
or slightly over shining black with scanty dull white pubescence hair on inner side of basitarsi and fringe of caudal rima pale golden outer side of tibiae with hair partly dark fuscous head ordinary only moderately broad mandibles black dark red at extreme tip elypeus shining with strong not dense punctures no median groove front dull in middle glistening at sides antennae pure black mesothorax shining with strong rather sparse punctures of practically uniform size scutellum with very minute punctures entirely different from those of mesothorax mesopleura coarsely striate area of metathorax short with fine regular crossstriae the basal middle with irregular rugae sides of area posteriorly bounded by conspicuous elevations posterior truncation strongly obliquely striate hind spurs simple microscopically very briefly serrulate tegula
black a little reddish in middle wings slightly brownish stigma dull ferruginous nervures fuscous outer r. n. and t. c. much weakened first r. n. joining end of second s. m. abdomen shining with extremely minute punctur no hairbands or patches but third and fourth segments and base of first with thin pale glittering hair hair at apex fuscous venter with short Miff hair.
The wings are unusually short.
Hob. Yallingup S. W. Australia Nov. 1913 R. E. Turner Brit.
Museum.
Superficially exactly like Parasphecodes noachinus Ckll. but the stigma is more obtuse at end marginal cell shorter abdomen much more finely punctured and basal nervure more strongly arched.
The punctureless apical area on first abdominal segment is extremely narrow less than half as wide as that of P. noachinus.
These two bees are really congeneric the genera Parasphecodes and Halictus practically meeting at this point.
This and the next are named after Australian naturalists.
Halictus spenceri sp.
n. cf.
Length slightly over 8 mm.
 black rather robust with thin white hair faintly ochreoustinted on head and on thorax above abdomen without bands or patches but a little pale hair at bases of second and third segments and ventral segments with broad dense bands of white hair face broad eyes subemarginate  mandibles black clypeus with a lowtriangular creamy white patch its surface punctured and with no median groove antenna
long black
rlagellum moniliform mesothorax shining dull in front with small punctures scutellum very finely punctured not bigibbous area of metathorax semilunar feebly sculptured roughened basally with fine rugae the apical part microscopically areolate mesopleura not striate tegulse piceous with a rufous spot the anterior lateral margin pallid wings dusky stigma dark fuscous nervures light fuscous first r. n. joining second s. m. at end third s. m. broader than second abdomen shining with very fine obscure punctures apex with a large broad rounded bright ferruginous plate.
Front dull.
Legs black with pale hair.
Hab Yallingup S. W. Australia Sept. 14Oct 31 1913.
R. E. Turner Brit.
Museum.
I thought at first that this might be the male of H. brazieri but the structure is too different.
It belongs to the group of H. cambagei Ckll. where it is easily distinguished by its large size.
Some specimens are only about 7 mm.
long.
Halictus tannaensis sp.
n. 9.
Length a little over 7 mm. robust head broadoval dark bluishgreen the clypeus and supraclypeal area stained with crimson face front and cheeks with thin dull white hair vertex with fuscous hair mandibles black obscurely reddish at apex clypeus sparsely punctured front dull very finely striate head truncate posteriorly the occipital margin abrupt antenna
dark nagellum with only the faintest red tint toward end antennal joints 2 to 5 measuring length in microns 128 128 144 and 176 respectively mesothorax and scutolluin dullish yellowishgreen with slighl crimson tints very finely but not extremely densely punctured dorsum of thorax with thin brownishtinted hair area of metathorax semilunar welldefined with regular straight plicae on the basal half connected by minute crossridges posterior truncation very hairy legs black not metallic last joint of tarsi red hair of legs black on outer side hind femora slender arched beneath with a long curled pale scopa inner side of tarsi with light ferruginous hair hind spur with very long spines teguhv fuscous with a ferruginous spot wings strongly dusky stigma rufofuscous nervures fuscous outer r. n. and t. c. much weakened second and third s. m. cells about equal and together not as large as first first r. n. joining third s. m. near base third discoidal cell narrowed above abdomen broad shining impunctate obscurely bluishgreen hair at apex reddish caudal plate narrow exposed venter with a scopa of long white hairs.
Hah.
 Tanna Island Xew Hebrides June 1900 J. J. Walker Brit.
Museum.
Allied to H. perpessicus Kohl from Samoa but easily distinguished by the longer more oval head.
Also allied to H. saffordi Ckll. from Guam but the area of metathorax is quite different.
Halictus epiensis sp.
n. 9.
Length a little over 6.5 mm.
 superficially and structurally like H. to nnaensis but easily distinguished by the following character mesothorax and scutellum narrower more closely punctured rich bluegreen area of metathorax larger more finely sculptured the very delicate rugae joined by crossrugse producing a fine reticulation while apically delicate striae pass obliquely to each side of a fine median plica wings very dark venation as in H. tannaensis.
The third antennal joint is very short broader than long a little shorter than the second or fourth.
Hab. Ringdove Bay Epi Island Xew Hebrides July 21.
1900.
J. J. Walker Brit.
Museum.
Halictus pachycephalia sp.
n. o 71 .
Length about 6 mm. rather robust with very large broad head wider than thorax and short abdomen black with dull whit.'
hair the legs ferruginous the coxae trochanters and basal half  itmore of femora black anterior femora black behind except at extreme apex spurs pale ferruginous.
Head about 2.17 mm.
wide mandibles pale yellow with the apex broadly black labrum pallid clypeus with a pale yellow apical band broad in middle white hair of fai not concealing the shining surface front dull except at sides densely punctured with oblique mainly transverse wavy rugae above the antenna
 a small shining space on each side of middle ocellus anteriorly antenna
slender moderately long the flagellum dull reddish length of antennal joints in microns 1.
 scape 560 2.
128 3.
144 4.
240 mesothorax polished and shining sparsely and finely punctured median and parapsidal grooves distinct  scutellum shining the disc impunctate legs with pale hair basitarsi creamcolored at base and a creamcolored spot at base of hind femora tegula
rufotestaceous with a pale yellowish mark wings hyaline stigma and nervures ferruginous stigma large first r. n. meeting second t. c third s. m. large broader above than second hind wing with four spines on costa much before origin of radial vein a group of four large hooks close together beginning at origin of radial vein and a group of three hooks a short distance beyond abdomen shining very finely punctured with a thin pruinose pubescence but no bands or spots apex with white hair a broad rounded very obtuse red apical plate venter not very hairy.
Hab Yarrawin New South Wales 1914.
W. W. Froggatt 250.
Related to H. spenceri but easily separated by the color of the legs.
The red stigma and other characters separate it from H. dolichocerus and H. hamatopus.
Halictus dolichocerus sp.
n. cf .
Length 5 to 6 mm. rather robust with short broad abdomen head large but not conspicuously so as in H. pachycephalias pubescence rather short dull white lateral bases of abdominal segments 2 to 4 with cuneiform patches of white tomentum legs bright ferruginous blackened at base anterior femora black except at apex middle and hind pair with less black tibia
with a blackish patch.
Eyes rather strongly converging below clypeus with a broad apical band which is angularly produced above in middle face and whole of front with rather dense white hair partly concealing surface of front front dull supraclypeal area polished and shining antenna
extremely long dark the fourth joint bright or obscure red beneath flagellum strongly crenulate beneath mesothorax polished finely and not densely punctured scutellum brilliantly shining middle of disc impunctate area of metathorax crescentic with weak plica
 margin of area polished tegula
rufotestaceous wings hyaline nervures and stigma sepia second s. m. variable first r. n. joining second t. c. or entering basal corner of third s. m. third s. m. very large quadrate sometimes longer than high abdomen shining very finely punctured apical half of second segment punctured not lineolate.
Hab.
 Type from Yarrawin X. S.  Froggatt 225.
AJso two from Brewarrina N. S. W. 1914 Froggatt.
The basitarsi may be distinctly yellowish.
By the general form and very long antennae this resembles .
hamatojms Ckll. but it is readily distinguished by the shining mesothorax.
Halictus supralucens sp.
n. 9.
Length about 6.5 mm.
 of ordinary form black with rather scanty white hair dense bands of purewhite tomentum at extreme bases of second to fourth segments the central part on second hidden by overlapping first segment legs very dark brown with pale hair.
Head broad mandibles black with a faint red subapical spot clypeus shining with irregular strong punctures front dull except at sides finely striate antennae dark flagellum with a very obscure reddish tint beneath mesothorax shining with irregular large and small punctures the disc not lineolate or reticulate parapsidal grooves deeply impressed scutellum flattened depressed in middle strongly polished almost entirely impunctate area of metathorax large poorly defined appearing rugose from a fine raised reticulation but the apical part smooth and shining hind basitarsi with apical brush brilliant orangeferruginous tegulse rather dark chestnutred wings dusky nervures brownish stigma large dull ambercolor second s. m. large first r. n. meeting second t. c. or joining apical corner of second s. m. abdomen shining at base duller beyond with extremely fine punctures caudal rima fringed with brown hair venter with white hair not forming a curled scopa.
Hab. Kalamunda S. W. Australia Feb. 928 and at 850 ft. March 111 1914.
R. E. Turner Brit.
Museum.
Near H. mediopolitus Ckll. but sculpture of mesothorax entirely different.
Easily known from H. orbatus Sm.
by the polished scutellum.
Halictus demissus sp.
n. 9 .
Length nearly 5.5 mm.
 black with the mesothorax shining green polished with sparse punctures of different sizes the parapsidal grooves very distinct scutellum also polished but not green pubescence scanty dull white the abdomeD without hairbands or spot mandibles chestnui red except basally clypeus shining front dull and granular flagellum entirely dark area of metathorax large with delicate but very distinct radiating stria 1  legs black wings hyaline nervures and the very large stigma sepia firsl r. n. joining second s. m. a little before end outer r. n. and t. c. very weak third s. m. very short abdomen polished shining venter with a scopa of long curled hairs.
Microscopical characters front densely covered with elongated punctures running into striae surface of mesothorax very delicately reticulated area of metathorax minutely reticulated between the ridges  hind spur with four obtuse spines.
Hob.
 Launceston Tasmania Nov. 1 1914 2 9 F. M. Littler 2699.
Related to H. hwnilis Sm. but distinguished by the dark legs and striate area of metathorax.
Halictus forticornis sp.
n. cf .
Length about 4 mm.
 black with very scanty pale pubescence no bands or patches on abdomen head broad eyes converging below mandibles pale yellow ferruginous at apex lower half of clypeus pale yellow middle of face shining front dull cheeks unarmed scape black flagellum very long thick submoniliform light orangeferruginous beneath  mesothorax and scutellum shining smooth and polished area of metathorax roughened basally but with a broad shining rim legs black with knees apices of tibiae and anterior tibiae in front ferruginous tarsi very pale reddish approaching creamcolor tegulae dark ferruginous wings hyaline nervures and the large stigma testaceous first r. n. joining apical corner of second s. m.  outer r. n. and t. c. extremely weak abdomen short shining sides of venter testaceous.
Microscopical characters front striate mesothorax with sparse minute punctures the surface of the disc not lineolate or reticulate first two abdominal segments distinctly but minutely punctured the depressed apical part of second transversely lineolate.
Hob. Kalamunda S. W. Australia Feb. 928 1914 R. E. Turner Brit.
Museum.
Very close to H. cyclognathus Ckll. but head smaller antennae longer and area of metathorax different.
Halictus imitans Ckll.
George Town Tasmania Nov. 15 1914 Littler.
New to Tasmania.
On Nov. 29 Mr. Littler took H. lanarius Sm.
at George Town.
Halictus seductus Ckll.
Bridport Tasmania Oct. 2630 1913 Littler.
New to Tasmania.
Halictus semipolitus expulsus subsp.
d. 9 .
Flagellum black red at end in typical semipolitus  tegulse piceous or more or less reddish.
Hab.
 Georgetown Tasmania Nov. 15 and 29 l'.l l F. M.
Littler.
Halictus macrops sp o. cf .
Length 5 nun.
or a little over black robust looking like a female the head very large and broad the antennae i which are entirely dark not very long hair of head and thorax long dull white slightly creamy on thorax above on abdomen the hair is thin and rather long rather abundant on apical segments but not forming bands or patches apical plate of abdomen very broad piceous.
Mandibles dark red apically lower margin of clypeus without yellow hair of face abundant but not concealing shining surface of clypeus front dull mesothorax polished with fine scattered punctures scutellum dullish area of metathorax narrowly crescentic roughened with minute short plicae legs black with white hair tegularufofuscous darkened in front wings hyaline stigma and nervures dark reddish outer r. n. and t. c. evanescent first r. n. meeting second t. c second s. m. very narrow third large about twice the size of second abdomen shining with very minute punctures hind margins of segments more or less pallid.
Microscopical characters clypeus distinctly but sparsely punctured the punctures emitting longplumose hairs front densely punctured in the middle also striate the ridges between the punctures emphasized mesothorax distinctly but not at all densely punctured the surface of the disc not reticulate or lineolate punctures of scutellum smaller than those of mesothorax first abdominal segment and basal half of second well though minutely punctured apical half of second transversely lineolate.
Hab.
 Launceston Tasmania.
F. M.
Littler.
This may be compared with H. niveifrons Ckll. from which it is easily known by the broad face.
Halictus lanariellus sp.
n. 9.
Length about 8 mm. the abdomen large black with dull white hair bases of abdominal segments 2 to 4 with broad bands of white tomentum having a faint creamy tint especially at sides of 2 where it is very dense the band on 4 so broad as to occupy more than half the segment legs black the tarsi ferruginous at apex.
Head broad mandibles obscurely reddish apically clypeus and supraclypeal area shining and sparsely punctured front extremely densely punctured not striate antennae dark flagellum faintly reddish below at apex mesothorax shining strongly and rather closely punctured scutellum shining depressed and punctured in middle but the disc on either side impunctate area of metathorax crescentic with fine plicse which in the middle run into a reticulation giving a subrugose effect under a lens hind femora and trochanters with long curled floccus hind spur simple tegulae dark rufous wings hyaline stigma and nervures ferruginous second s. m. very broad receiving first r. n. at apex abdomen shining where not covered with tomentum extremely finely punctured venter with long white hair not forming a curled scopa.
Hab. Yarrawin N. S. W. Froggatt 233.
Close to H. lanarius Sm. but smaller and more shining.
Halictus confusellus sp.
n. .9.
Length about 7 mm.
 black with dull white hair lateral bases of second and third abdominal segments with cuneiform patches of dense white tomentum the apical part of abdomen also hairy but not densely legs black.
Mandibles black faintly reddish subapically clypeus and supraclypeal area shining sparsely punctured front densely punctured antennae black mesothorax and scutellum shining but very distinctly and quite closely punctured all over area of metathorax crescentic with fine radiating plicae hind spur peculiar with a very broad rather short lamina and a low keellike one beyond the latter slightly inclined to be double tegulae rufopiceous wings slightly dusky nervures fuscous stigma dull ferruginous outer r. n. and t. c. evanescent first r. n. reaching extreme apex of second s. m. third s. m. much' broader above than second abdomen shining very finely punctured.
Hab.
 Launceston Tasmania F. M. Littler.
Known from H. imitans Ckll.
by the ferruginous stigma and shorter area of metathorax.
The following key will facilitate the separation of a number of species of Halictus discussed above Mesothorax green 1.
Mesothorax black abdomen black 4.
1.
Small species with red or mainly red tibia
2.
Larger species with dark tibiae 3.
2.
Green of thorax very bright urbanus Sm.
Green of thorax obscure mundulus Ckll.
3.
Mesothorax shining sparsely punctured demissus Ckll.
Mesothorax dull much more closely punctured subinclinans Ckll.
4.
Males 5.
Females 10.
5.
Lower margin of clypeus not yellow macrops Ckll.
Lower margin of clypeus yellow or creamcolor 6.
6.
Very small less than .
 mm.
long tarsi yellowish farticornis Ckll.
Larger at least over 5 mm.
long 7.
7.
Tarsi black spenceri Ckll.
Tarsi red or yellow 8.
8.
Stigma ferruginous head broad and massive....pachycephalus Ckll.
Stigma fuscous 9.
9.
Mesothorax shining dolichocerus Ckll.
Mesothorax dull hcematopus Ckll.
10.
Small hardly 5.5 mm.
long semipolitus expulsus Ckll.
Larger .11.
11.
Disc of mesothorax with scattered punctures of different size supralucens Ckll.
Disc of mesothorax well punctured the punctures uniform 12.
12.
Fourth abdominal segment except broad apical margin densely covered with pale feltlike hair lanariellus Ckll Fourth segment not so 13.
13.
Hind margins of abdominal segments reddened area of metathorax with irregular sculpture pulvitedus Ckll.
Hind margins of abdominal segments black area of metathorax with fine definite longitudinal plicse 14.
14.
Stigma ferruginous area of metathorax shorter confusi llus Ckll.
Stigma piceous area of metathorax longer imitans Ckll.
A NEW SPECIES OF ONCHIDIOPSIS FROM BERING SEA.
BY WILLIAM H. DALL.
The 'genus Onchidiopsis Bergh 1853 was proposed for certain Arctic mollusks related to Velutina and possessing an internal nearly laminar shell.
The minor characters of the few species known are in many respects different but their combinations are so intermixed that it is difficult to assign to the differences more than specific value.
However the peculiarities of the present species are such that I venture to separate the genus into two sections as follows  Genus ONCHIDIOPSIS Bergh 1S53.
Section ONCHIDIOPSIS type 0. gronlandica Bergh.
Adult animal with an impervious notseum.
Section ATLANTOLIMAX type 0.
A.
hannai Dall.
Adult with a large dorsal foramen in the notseum.
Onchidiopsis Atlantolimax hannai n. sp.
Animal after preservation in spirits of a yellowish white color except on the sides of the foot and on the osphradium.
The foot is muscular broad tapering and bluntly pointed behind extending about onethird of its length behind the hinder margin of the notseum even when contracted the front edge duplex auriculate at the anterior lateral angles proboscis entirely retractile within a transverse slit below the short stout tentacles eyes black distinct completely imbedded in and a little above the not perceptibly swollen bases of the tentacles on their outer sides verge situated behind the right tentacle large twisted at first stout and subcylindrical then deeply constricted then compressed and expanded with a conical papilla at the outer corner of the expansion 1 much as in 0. corys Balch.
The sides of the foot are radially corrugated the convex folds sometimes more or less granulose above the corrugated area and in the pedal sulcus below the edge of the mantle the surface is smooth 1 In Balch's figure of 0. corys this papilla is shown at the inner corner of the expansion a difference which is probably due to twisting.
Cf.
Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Museum No.
1761 pi.
22 fig.
1. and white though the corrugations arc more or less tinged with slate color.
The visceral hump i enormous subglobular shorter than the foot height above the sole 52 mm.
 above the sulcus between mantleedge and foot 40 mm.
 longitudinal diameter 42 mm.
 transverse diameter 37 mm.
The hum is largely covered by a thick obscurely pustulous almost coriaceous layer the notaeum beneath which is a thin transparent but quite tough mantle which in spirits expands below the basal edge of the not a 'inn above the pedal sulcus especially in front though not as much as in 0. corys like a mass of bubbles with a hardly perceptible sinus on either side forming an incurrent and an exhalent channel which however does not affect the margin of the notaeum the latter being entire except for a slight incurvation in the median line in front.
The summit of the notseum in spirits exhibits an ovoid foramen about 30 mm.
long by 24 mm.
wide through which the shell covered by the excessively thin transparent mantle is partially visible.
There is a transverse slitlike opening between the mantle and the pedal sulcus directly behind the head in which the osphradium ctenidium and excretory outlets are situated.
The osphradium is of a greenish tint with darker margins.
The gill is translucent white.
In the former the filaments are single and elongated on either side of the stalk not short and double as in 0. corys.
The ctenidium has a single row of long triangular not auriculate lamellae much as in that species.
The jaw much resembles that of 0. corys but the radula was so deeply retracted that it was thought best not to break up the unique specimen by cutting to extract it.
The base of the arc of the shell measures 40 mm.
long by 32 mm.
wide.
It has much the shape of the bowl of a deep oval ladle and it depth is about 15 mm.
when in normal position.
Its structure iconcentric not in circles but in a roundedquadrate fashion.
On the edge of the left side behind is a knotlike nucleus.
On the inner surface near this nucleus and extending for a length of about 12 mm.
away from it are two elevated straight ridges which at half thenlength from the nucleus join to form a single stronger ridge which gradually diminishes and becomes obsolete on the inner surface of the disk.
The appearance of these ridges suggests that if the shell was spirally coiled they would form a columella.
The outer surface of the shell to which the mantle adheres tenaciously is smooth but undulated by more or less irregularly disposed concentric wrinkles.
It is attached to the body only by a small area at the edge near the nucleus.
There is no indication of a periostracum and the cartilaginous shell is nearly transparent.
The specimen was collected on the beach of St. Paul Island Bering Sea after a severe storm December 5 1914 by Mr. G. Dallas Hanna of the Bureau of Fisheries in whose honor it is named.
U. S. Nat.
Mus.
Cat.
No.
215162.
This species differs from 0. corys by its widely foraminate notseum its much larger visceral hump its single instead of double osphradial lamella and the character of its shell.
0. gronlandica glacialis and pacifica have an imperforate notseum.
0. gronlandica has a low visceral hump and entirely different form of verge.
0. glacialis has a proportionately much shorter and posteriorly pointed foot lower hump and different type of verge and 0. pacifica shows much the same differences.
The disposition to lump together specifically animals of this genus in spite of minor differences is responsible for much confusion.
The differences of more than specific rank run parallel to those in Velutina where some species have the shell entirely covered by the notseum and others have it more or less exposed.
It has been suggested that all species have the shell covered in the young but the specimens of all ages collected by me do not confirm this supposition.
While the edges of the shell and its concave surface except for the portion near the nucleus are free from the visceral hump below it is nevertheless completely covered by an extremely thin layer of tough tissue which can be separated from the shell only with difficulty usually coming off in small strips.
This tissue I assume to be an extension of the mantle as it has none of the characteristics of a periostracum.
The entrance of the vagina could not be made out.
It required for its demonstration more extensive dissection than was thought advisable for the unique specimen.
The animal is presumably hermaphrodite like the other species of the genus which have been anatomically examined.
THE ZOOLOGICAL POSITION OF THE SARCOSPORIDIA.
BY HOWARD CRAWLEY.
In a paper recently published by the present author Crawley 1916 evidence was given to show that the spores of Sarcocystis muris are sexually differentiated.
This evidence was based upon the findings in the intestinal cells of mice to which the spores had been fed.
It is however quite possible that a careful study of accurately fixed and stained spores taken directly from the cysts would reveal characters serving to differentiate the males and females.
Certain authors for instance Fantham 1913 in the case of Sarcocystis colli speak of two kinds of spores but nothing of the sort has as yet been demonstrated in the case of Sarcocystis muris.
Nevertheless as already stated these spores are males and females and within the intestinal cells of the mouse they quickly develop along their respective lines.
This evolution is completed in from 9 to 18 hours after which fertilization takes place.
My own studies shed no light upon later events.
The fertilized female or zygote can be found sometimes within the epithelial cells sometimes in the subepithelial tissues in mice killed one or two days after inoculation.
But as yet I have not been able to find the parasite in mice killed at longer intervals than this after feeding.
Erdmann 1914 describes and figures what are apparently the multiplication stages of a parasitic protozoan in the intestinal cells and tissues of mice killed some days after the ingestion of sarcosporidian spores.
The precautions taken by Erdmann seem absolutely to preclude infections with any other protozoan.
Consequently as the case now stands it seems entirely reasonable to look upon these multiplication stages as derived from the zygotes.
According to Negre 1907 the feces of mice that have been inoculated by feeding the usual cysts contain a stage of the parasite capable of producing the infection if fed to other mice.
This is present in the feces from the fifteenth to the sixtieth day alter inoculation.
It is evidently a resistant encysted stage since it maintains its vitality for 30 days in the dried feces and is capable of resisting a considerable degree of heat.
When mice are inoculated with this stage both the time required for the parasites to appear in the 26 muscles and the percentage of positive cases are the same as when the mice are fed with the stages occurring in the muscles.
Negre however was not able to detect this element in the feces and although it seems as if it must be present in the intestinal tissues for a longtime after inoculation it has never been seen.
Hence the evidence for its existence while entirely satisfactory is wholly indirect.
Negre's experiments have been repeated at the Zoological Laboratory of the Bureau of Animal Industry and his results confirmed.
The impression is however that the infections resulting from i noculation with the fecal stage are heavier than those obtained from feeding infected muscle.
Microscopical examination of the spores obtained in this manner show them to be precisely the same as those resulting from the other mode of infection.
As we have seen Erdmann describes multiplication stages as occurring in the intestine some days after inoculation.
The parasite then disappears to reappear at about the fortyfifth day in the muscles.
Several authors have endeavored to trace the history of the muscle stages but of the several accounts the most convincing is that of Negri 1910.
This author worked with the white rat but the parasites of the rat and mouse seem to be identical and there is no reason to suppose that the development of one would be any different from that of the other.
The smallest and hence doubtless the youngest stage found by Negri was an elongated body about 25 n long.
It was found in a rat killed 50 days after feeding.
It showed a delicate bounding membrane and was rather indistinctly divided into a number of oval elements each with a central differentiation.
This no doubt represented the nucleus.
Negri designates these bodies as sporoblasts.
In somewhat larger cysts the picture is clearer the oval sporoblasts being completely individualized and each shows a very distinct nucleus.
From this point on development appears to follow very simple lines.
The sporoblasts divide repeatedly by bipartition each daughter cell coming to assume the oval form of the mother cell.
The parasite itself the socalled cyst becomes larger but this increase in size is due merely to an increase in the number of the sporoblasts which do not themselves become larger.
The entire mass remains separated from the host tissue by the same kind of a delicate membrane.
Matters proceed in this way until the cysts according to Negri have attained a length of some 600 p.
From this time on however the two daughter cells arising from the division of a sporo lasl do not always take on the oval form of the mother cell but each r tai the form it had at the momenl of division and does no1 again divide.
The division of the sporoblast having been longitudinal the form of the daughter cells is that of a banana and they are in fact the spori The production of the spores in this way is initiated in the central part of the cyst.
At the outset of this new line of development the cysts will contain many sporoblasts and few spores and there is no doubt that the production of both spores and sporoblasts may take place simultaneously in different or even the same parts of the same cyst.
Eventually however the divisions of the sporoblasts produce only spores which finally come to be the only elements present within the cysts.
Bertram 1892 describes very early stages of the evolution of Sarcocystis tenella in the muscles of the sheep.
Several of his original figures have been reproduced in most of the general works on the parasitic Protozoa and doubtless are familiar to all students of thes organisms.
Of these Bertram's figure 22 reproduced by Doflein 1911 as figure 891 C page 922 represents an element 47  long by 6 j wide.
We have here what appears to be a solid body indistinctly marked out into small round or oval elements each with a nucleus It is strikingly like the smallest stage of Sarcocystis muris afigured and described by Negri.
Bertram also figures somewhat larger stages of the muscle phase of Sarcocystis tenella and in these reproduced by Doflein 1911 as figures 891 B and D page 922 the socalled cysts are more or less completely differentiated into rounded or oval nucleated cells the sporoblasts.
Since the Sarcosporidia are always classified as Neosporidia it has been tacitly assumed that the earliest stage in the muscles must be an organism in which growth and spore formation take place coincidently.
The very smallest stages figured and described by Negri and Bertram are capable of being interpreted in this way since they appear to consist of bodies of some size indistinctly divided into rounded or oval nucleated elements.
Inasmuch however as these bodies occur embedded in the muscular tissues of their host p by no means easy to get clearcut pictures of them and it is whol Impossible that the rather indefinite appearances figured by these two authors may be due merely to the difficulty of differentiating the sporoblasts from the surrounding host tissues.
In consequence it is not at all impossible that these earliest stages of Bertram and Negri may be only groups of sporoblasts and it is in harmony with this opinion that in both cases these authors figure slightly later stages of the parasite in which the sporoblasts are completely individualized.
More direct evidence however is furnished by some material which has recently been examined by the present author.
This from the heart of a sheep appears to show that at least in the case of Sarcocystis tenella the sarcosporidian cyst originates from a single cell.
This conclusion is based upon the discovery of a single partly divided sporoblast lying in a minute cavity within a cell of the heart.
Division had progressed to the point where the two daughter cells were wholly distinct but still in intimate contact.
The next stage found consisted of a group of eight sporoblasts also lying in a cavity within a heart cell.
All of these eight sporoblasts were more or less completely individualized.
In addition to these very small stages larger groups of sporoblasts were found up to cysts of over 100 plong.
But in all cases the elements composing the groups were obviously the same as the sporoblasts of Negri and Bertram.
Thus the data furnished by Bertram Negri and the present author are entirely consistent amongst themselves and are mutually confirmatory and supplementary.
For although the earliest known stage of S. muris yet discovered consists of a number of cells about six or seven judging from Negri's figure we can hardly ascribe to it a mode of development different from that of S. tenella.
Assuming then that these data are accurate a certain interesting conclusion seems to follow.
This conclusion is in effect that the muscle stage of Sarcocystis muris is not an individual but a congeries or colony of individuals.
In other words the unit is not the cyst or Miescher's tube but the sporoblast itself.
Assuming that this is true the life history of Sarcocystis muris would be as follows The ingested spores gain the epithelium of the intestine and develop into the macrogametes and microgametes.
The latter fertilize the former and produce the zygotes.
By endogenous multiplication the zygotes produce a number of minute elements.
There is here a gap in the life history.
It is evident that two divergent lines are followed since as we have seen some form of the parasite appears in the feces from the fifteenth to the sixtieth day.
It is therefore impossible to say whether the multiplication products described by Erdmann are those destined to invade the muscles or to infect the feces.
But whatever happens it is evident that at the end of several weeks some form of the parasite invades the muscles.
This is either the sporobhist itself or immediate forerunner which may be the zygote or some elemenl derived from the zygote.
In any event at a certain point in the evolutionary history the muscle cells come to harbor individual sporoblasts.
These divide many times by bipartition but eventually the products of these divisions are no longer sporoblasts but spores.
It may incidentally be noted that unless its development be interfered with each sporoblast will presumably produce a cyst.
It will be of interest to compare the several stages of the life history of Sarcocystis muris with those of an ideal member of the Coccidiomorpha.
The sarcosporidian spore develops directly into the sexual stages the macrogametes and microgametes.
These copulate and produce the zygotes.
In the coccidiomorphan the merozoites produced at the end of schizogony follow an identical line of development.
The sarcosporidian zygote divides into a number of small bodies the further history of which is unknown.
The coccidian zygote ultimately produces the sporozoites although the details whereby this end is gained are subject to great variation.
In the sarcosporidian some product of the zygote ultimately finds its way into the muscle cells and produces the colony of sporoblasts.
In the Coccidiomorpha the sporozoites eventually find their way into their appropriate habitats which are always cells and grow into trophozoites.
In the sarcosporidian the sporoblasts divide a number of times by bipartition after which spores are produced and division cease.
These spores in order to develop further must gain the alimentary canal of another host in which they will evolve into the sexual stages.
In the Coccidiomorpha the trophozoites divide into merozoites These grow into trophozoites which again divide into merozoiteand so on for an indefinite number of generations.
Eventually however the merozoites develop not into trophozoites but into the sexual forms.
It will next be in order to see what conclusions may be drawn from the data given above.
In so doing it will be convenient to divide the sarcosporidian life history into three portions namely the sexual development which takes place in the intestinal .
'pithelium the stage which follows this and finally the stage which occurs in the muscles.
In so far as the first of these stages is concerned that is the evolution of the microgametes and macrogametes the parallel between sarcosporidian and coccidiomorphan is exact.
In the second stage the gaps in our knowledge of the course of events in the Sarcosporidia prevents as precise a comparison.
We do not know what happens between the time the parasite leaves the epithelium and the time it invades the muscle nor has the stage which appears in the feces ever been seen.
Nevertheless the course of events in the two cases must be more or less similar.
For in both the zygote divides into a number of small elements which serve to carry the infection either to other hosts or to other parts of the same host.
In the Coccidiomorpha there is typically a first division into spores the protoplasm of which secondarily divides into sporozoites.
In the sarcosporidian it is in evidence that the zygote divides into small elements the further history of which is not known.
But in any event it must be some product of the zygote which on the one hand invades the muscles and on the other develops into the encysted fecal stage.
It is conceivable that it is an encysted zygote which infects the feces but we do not know.
In the third stage the course of events differs in detail in the two groups of animals but the end results are the same since in both there are produced a large number of elements destined to evolve into the sexual stages.
In the Coccidiomorpha there is extensive growth followed by multiple division this cycle being repeated an indefinite number of times.
In the Sarcosporidia there is an indefinite number of bipartitions alternating with only enough growth to restore the element to its original size.
In the one case the Sarcosporidia multiplicative energy is continuous while in the other the Coccidiomorpha it is periodic but this difference is not essential.
We may next endeavor to homologize the several stages in the life history of Sarcocystis muris with those of the Coccidiomorpha.
In the first place it is entirely evident that the sarcosporidian spore is the homologue of the coccidiomorphan merozoite.
The sexual stages are alike.
The multiplication products of the sarcosporidian zygote are presumably the homologues of either the spores or sporozoites of the Coccidiomorpha.
The sporoblast is not so easy to place.
It may correspond to either the sporozoite or the trophozoite of the Coccidiomorpha.
A knowledge of its derivation is necessary before this point can be determined.
Since however the sporoblasts are all of much the same size whether occurring singly or within groups the distinction here between sporozoite and trophozoite would be largely a matter of terms.
Attention may also be called to the homology of the sarcosporidian muscle stage with the entire schizogonous cycle of the Coccidiomorpha.
In the latter the products of schizogony are set free and are enabled to invade new regions of the host.
In the former a tissue reaction on the part of the host confines them in the region originally invade 1.
If the line of reasoning developed above he sound it seems to follow that the Sarcosporidia are not Xeosporidia but Telosporidia and moreover Telosporidia which obviously belongs to the Coccidiomorpha.
In the discussion given above the various characters of the Sarcosporidia and Coccidiomorpha were compared the result showing both resemblances and differences.
But as will be pointed out below the characters of taxonomic value were those wherein tin two groups were alike whereas the differences had to do with characters not used in classification.
Before however giving the reasons for regarding the Sarcosporidia to be Telosporidia it may be advisable to point out the difficulties in the way of regarding them as Neosporidia.
This group which constitutes a subclass of the Sporozoa is defined by Doflein 1911 p. 701 as composed of Sporozoa which may sporulate during the entire vegetative period.
Thus a typical neosporidian will consist of a multinucleate organism in the cytoplasm of which there will be a number of spores in various stages of evolution.
It has apparently always been assumed that something of the sort takes place in the Sarcosporidia that the cyst originates from a multinucleate element which only secondarily becomes multicellular.
As we have seen however the cyst is composed of separate cells from the very outset.
Hence there appears to be no good reason for regarding the Sarcosporidia as Neosporidia.
We are now in position to suggest at least tentatively a new classification for the Sporozoa.
This class is divided into two subclasses the Telosporidia and Neosporidia.
In the first division into multiplicative elements takes place only at the end of the vegetative period.
In the second as we have seen growth and spore formation take place simultaneously.
Following Doflein the Telosporidia may be divided into two orders as follows  1.
Coccidiomorpha Vegetative stage continuously intracellular.
Fertilization anisogamous.
Sexual generation continuously or transiently intracellular.
2.
Gregarinida Vegetative stage if intracellular at all only so at first adults always extracellular.
Fertilization anisogamous or isogamous.
Fertilized forms always continuously extracellular.
In the Sarcosporidia the vegetative stage is intracellular becoming extracellular only through the destruction of the cells originally occupied.
Fertilization is anisogamous and the sexual generation is typically intracellular becoming extracellular only by accident.
Evidently then so far as the main characters go those of the Sarcosporidia are identical with those of the Coccidiomorpha.
It therefore seems allowable to place them in this group.
Doflein divides the order Coccidiomorpha into suborders as follows 1.
Coccidia Sporozoites inclosed in spores.
Zygotes nonmotile mostly intracellular.
2.
Haemosporidia Sporozoites always free.
Zygote as the ookinete motile and migrating into new cells.
Judging from Erdmann's contribution the sarcosporidian zygote does not produce spores but divides directly into what are possibly sporozoites.
This would place the Sarcosporidia closer to the Haemosporidia than to the Coccidia.
But the fact that the zygote is apparently nonmotile indicates that the relationship with the Coccidia is the closer.
Obviously however the Sarcosporidia are neither Coccidia nor Haemosporidia but our very scanty knowledge regarding this phase of their life history prevents us from defining them in the terms used by Doflein for the two other groups.
For the present it seems best merely to consider them to be one of three suborders making up the Coccidiomorpha.
The Sporozoa may then be reclassified as follows Class Sporozoa.
Subclass I Telosporidia.
Order 1 Coccidiomorpha.
Suborder A Coccidia.
Suborder B Haemosporidia.
Suborder C Sarcosporidia.
Order 2 Gregarinida.
Subclass II Neosporidia.
Order 1 Cnidosporidia.
Suborder A Myxosporidia.
Suborder B Microsporidia.
Suborder C Actinomyxidia.
Order 2 Haplosporidia.
It is to be observed that the characters used by Doflein to classify the Telosporidia are not those having to do with the nature of the life history.
Thus although the Haemosporidia have two hostwhile the Coccidia have but one these two groups are ranked iclosely related suborders.
Therefore the fact that we are still in the dark as to whether the Sarcosporidia have two hosts or only one has no bearing upon what is their proper place in the classification of the Sporozoa.
With regard to this question the probabilities are that there are two hosts.
Indeed such an hypothesis is more or less obligatory when it comes to accounting for the widespread occurrence of Sarcosporidia in purely herbivorous animals such as sheep.
As no more than an interesting speculation it might be suggested that the second host a carnivor infects itself by eating the infected flesh of a herbivor.
The merozoites released in the intestine initiate the sexual cycle and the encysted form is discharged in the feces.
This encysted stage ingested by a herbivor with its food eventual ly infects the muscles and the cycle is repeated.
Analogy would lead us to suspect that the sexual cycle is in general confined to the carnivor the asexual to the herbivor.
This view receives a certain amount of indirect support from the facts that whereas the purely herbivorous sheep and cattle are practically invariably infected records of the finding of sarcosporidian cysts in the muscles of carnivorous animals are very rare.
Finally the fact that in the mouse both the sexual and asexual cycles occur presents no particular difficulty.
Mice are omnivorous and can infect themselves either by eating the flesh of their dead fellows or as Negre first showed.
by the contamination of their food with the encysted fecal stage.
In conclusion it may be mentioned that Negre's discovery is of the utmost significance when it comes to an endeavor to elucidate the life history of the Sarcosporidia.
Yet for whatever may have been the reasons it has been persistently overlooked or ignored and hence has never been awarded the credit to which it is entitled.
References Cited.
Bertram A.
1892.
Beitriige zur Kenntniss der Sarcosporidien nebst einem Anhange liber parasitische Schlauche in der Leibeshohle von Rotatorien Zool.
Jahrb. Jena Abt.
f.
Anat. v. 5 34 20.
Oct. pp.
581604 pis.
3840.
Crawley Howard.
1916.
The sexual evolution of Sarcocystismuris.
Pp.
243 5 pis. 93 figs.
4.
Philadelphia.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Phila. Jan. Doflein F. 1911.
Lehrbuch der Protozoenkunde.
Eine Darstellung der Naturgeschichte der Protozoen mit besonderer Beriicksichtigung der parasitischen und pathogenen Formen.
3. stark vermehrte Aufl.
xii  1043 pp. 951 figs.
8.
Jena.
Erdmann Rh.
1914.
Zu einigen strittigen Punkten der Sarkosporidienforschung Arch.
de zool.
exper.
et gen. Par. v. 53 9 juin pp.
579596 pis.
1718 figs.
140.
Issued 20 juin.
J Fantham H. B.
1913.
Sarcocyslis colli n.
sp. a sarcosporidian occurring in the redfaced African mouse bird Colius erythromelon Proc.
Cambridge Eng.
Phil.
Soc v. 17 3 Sept. 8 pp.
221224 pi.
5.
Negre L. 1907.
Sarcosporidiose experimental Compt.
rend.
Soc.
de biol. Par. an.
59 v. 63 v. 2 30 ler nov. pp.
374375.
Negri A.
1910.
Beobachtungen liber Sarkosporidien.
3.
Mitteilung Centralbl.
f. Bakteriol.
etc.
 Jena 1.
Abt. v. 55 5 17.
Aug. Orig. pp.
373383 1 pi. figs.
112.
COLDBLOODED VERTEBRATES FROM COSTA RICA AND THE CANAL ZONE.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
During the summer of 1915 Mr. David E. Harrower gathered the collections listed below which were later purchased by the Academy.
Several of the fishes are new to science and other records are for rare or unusual forms.
COSTA RICA.
The collections made in Costa Rica were obtained at Guapilis the Chirripo River Valley and Port Limon all in the Atlantic drainage.
Guapilis.
A small collection of freshwater fishes was obtained in the basin of the Rio Guapilis.
Astyanax aeneus costaricensis Mick.
Head 3 depth 2 to 2f D. m 8 to in 9 A. in 25 i to in 27 i  scales 34 to 36 in lateral line to caudal base and 3 more on latter snout 3 to 4 in head eye 3 to 3 maxillary 2 to 2 interorbital 2 to 3 maxillary teeth 12 and 11 inner row 44.
Color when fresh in alcohol olivebrown on back.
Broad lateral brassy band nearly wide as eye changes behind into leadendusky blotch at middle of caudal base and continues out on median caudal finrays to their edges.
Hind edges of each caudal lobe narrowly blackish fin gray and lower lobe tinged with red.
Dorsal warm brown.
Adipose fin gray.
Anal gray darker along lower edge and in front with median bloodred tinge or blotch fading out behind.
Pectoral dilute reddish.
Ventral bright vermilion.
Iris yellowish.
Two examples 98 and 100 mm.
in length.
Alfaro cultratus Regan.
Color olivaceous above when fresh in alcohol.
Dusky median streak on back.
Iris olivaceous.
Lower surface of body and head paler than back.
Dusky streak extends down each side of lower jaw and on under side of head till opposite hind pupil edge.
Dorsal gambogeolive.
Caudal olivegray.
Other fins pale gamboge.
Three .examples 52 to 58 mm.
Priapichthys annectens Regan.
Head 3f  depth 3 D. i 9 A. in 7 scales 28 to caudal base and about 10 more on caudal basally 9 scales between dorsal and anal origins 20 scales before dorsal snout 2 in head measured from upper jaw tip eye 3f  maxillary 2f.
Gillrakers about 15 short points.
On head above several large cavities or channels lengthwise from near front of snout till over middle of eyes.
A transverse channel posteriorly also over eye on each side and still posteriorly 2 more large pores.
Color when fresh in alcohol olivaceousdusky above and on sides all scales strongly contrasted by dark or duskyblack borders forming a prolonged reticulated pattern.
Under surface of head and trunk pale to whitish.
Jaws dusky.
Iris olive.
Dorsal olivaceous marginally grayish and each membrane at base with blackish blotch.
Caudal gray olivegamboge basally.
Pectoral pale olive.
Ventral yellowish.
Anal bright orangered in front edge behind and basal portion yellowish.
One example a female 63 mm.
Poeciliopsis isthmensis Regan.
Color of male fresh in alcohol olivaceous above and on sides lower surface of head and trunk paler.
Each scale with dark edge sharply defined and producing greatly contrasted reticulated patternRow of underlaid narrow leaden vertical lines or streaks about 14 in number along middle of sides.
Fins grayish edges slightly darker.
Dorsal mostly tinged olive basally.
Edge of intromittent organ dusky.
Iris dark.
Length 43 mm.
for largest and 22 mm.
for smallest in series of eleven examples.
The smaller males show the anal tinged with orange and dorsal and caudal bases gamboge.
Also black dots at edges of scales.
Adult female with scales very dark edged.
Dusky spot on each dorsal membrane before dorsal ray basally.
Anal gray and ventral whitish.
Dusky blotch above vent.
Iris olive.
One example 50 mm.
long.
Poeciliopsis maculifer sp.
nov.
Fig.
1.
Head 4f  depth 3f  D. i 8 A. in 7 P. i 11 V. i 5 scales 29 in lateral series to caudal base and 3 more on latter 9 scales between dorsal and anal origins 17 scales before dorsal head width If its length second branched dorsal ray If first branched anal ray If least depth of caudal peduncle If caudal little longer than head pectoral If ventral If snout 3 in head measured from upper jaw tip eye3 maxillary 3 interorbital If.
1916.1 391 Body elongate rather robust forward deepest at ventral origin well compressed predorsal region moderately depressed and abdomen somewhat potbellied.
Caudal peduncle somewhat large elongate least depth but slightly over half its length.
Head small depressed above convex below and profiles alike.
Snout broad depressed above and length in profile about half its width.
Eye rounded rather high and about midway in head length.
Eyelids free.
Premaxillaries greatly protractile.
Maxillary little free vertical mostly concealed and not reaching eye.
Mouth small.
Lower jaw rather weak slightly protrudes and at unison of rami rather weak shallow.
Teeth small uniform simple conic in a single row and flexibly fastened at bases.
Lips rather Fig.
1.
 Poeciliopsis maculifer Fowler.
thin.
Tongue small depressed free in front.
Nostril close above upper front eye edge.
Interorbital flattened.
Preopercle ridge inclined slightly forward.
Gillopening extends forward about opposite hind pupil edge.
Rakers about 16 short weak points about  of filaments and latter about half of eye.
Scales large cycloid narrowly imbricated largest on upper surface of head and become small on caudal peduncle behind.
Scales on breast and belly but little smaller than those on sides.
Caudal base with several irregular rows of small scales.
Several rather large pores or pits on head above one directly behind upper hind edge of eye.
Mucous channel opening by several pores along edge of preopercle.
Side of snout with several smaller pores.
Dorsal inserted about midway between hind pupil edge and caudal base second branched ray highest and depressed fin extending slightly over half way to caudal base.
Anal inserted slightly behind dorsal origin reaches about halfway to caudal base when depressed and first branched ray longest.
Both dorsal and anal form distinct point in front at tip of second branched ray and upper front edge of each also slightly emarginate.
Caudal with hind edge convex each corner forming slight angle.
Pectoral rather broad extends back opposite ventral origin.
Ventral inserted about midway between pectoral and anal origins depressed fin reaching latter and first branched ray longest.
Vent and genital orifice close before anal.
Color when fresh in alcohol oliveyellow generally above edges of scales darker.
Lower surface of head and belly pale to whitish.
Dorsal bright orangeyellow edge gray and base broadly jetblack.
Caudal grayish base yellowish.
Pectoral pale olive.
Anal and ventral whitish tinged with yellowish medianly.
Broad dark brown median streak down back and brownish line along lower surface of caudal peduncle from anal to caudal base.
Iris olive.
Length 55 mm.
Type No.
45391 A. N. S. P.
Female.
Rio Guapilis at Guapilis Costa Rica.
July 1915.
D. E. Harrower.
Also Nos.
45392 to 45394 same data paratypes all females.
They show Head 3 to 4 depth 3f to 4 D. i 8 A. in 7 scales 30 to 32 in lateral series to caudal base and 3 more on latter snout 3 to 3 in head measured from upper jaw tip eye 2f to 2f  interorbital 2 length 25 to 46 mm.
Allied with the preceding species in having the dorsal origin slightly before that of the anal.
It differs in the more elongate body.
In the small head it resembles P. pittieri though that species is said to have the depth 2.6 to 2.8.
The jaws are not so broadly truncate as in Pcecilopsis generally but have a more rounded appearance laterally as in Fundulus and allied genera.
Macula spot fero to bear with reference to the black basal dorsal blotch.
Mollienisia sphenops tropica Meek.
Color of adult female generally olivaceous under surface of head and trunk paler when fresh in alcohol.
Along side of trunk each scale with small obscure orange spot producing lengthwise streaks.
Dorsal olive base jetblack over good portion.
Caudal and pectoral dull olive.
Anal orange hind edge whitish.
Ventral whitish.
Iris olive.
Length 6Q mm.
Adult male similar excepl black on dorsal broken into numerous mall rounded spots and caudal base slightly mottled.
Lower fins whitish.
Length 48 mm.
A large female is uniform dark olive above and paler or whitish below.
Fins all paler.
Dorsal blotched with black m front a1 bas and behind basally with some small black dots.
Altogether a cries of six example and all show a black dorsal blotch.
No orange spots on the scales are mentioned for Platypoecilus tropicus Meek and Pcecilia tenuis Meek.
Under .1.
sphenops Regan says 1 often a dark spot on each scale of side of body in female and in male spots on sides rarely present.
Cichlasoma spilurus Gunther.
Head 2 depth 2 to 2f  D. XVII 10 i A. VIII or IX 8 i snout 2 to 2 in head eye 3 to 4 maxillary 3i to 5 interorbital 2 to 3.
In the small example general color olivaceous with nine vertical darker bars wider than interspaces along back and sides above fifth little enlarged medianly as jetblack blotch and last at caudal base similar.
Fins all grayish ventral brownish along front edge.
The larger example is obscure brownish generally tinged with mossgreen on soft dorsal anal caudal pectoral and sides of head.
Eight vertical duskybrown bars little broader than interspaces fourth and last black and greatly pronounced.
Spinous dorsal anal and front ventral edge dusky rest of fin like back.
Iris slaty.
Lower lip pale.
Two examples 70 and 104 mm.
long.
Cichlasoma alfari Meek.
Head 2f to 2 depth 2 to 2 D. XVII or XVIII 10 or 11 A. VII 8 or 9 scales 20 or 21 in upper 1.1.
9 tubes in young and 8 to 12 in lower 1.1.
3 tubes in young snout 2 to 3 in head eve 3 to 3 maxillary 3j to 4 interorbital 2 to 3f.
Color in alcohol brownish above paler to whitish below.
Snout with grayish tinge.
A number of rather large grayblue spots on preorbital region cheek and opercles.
Dusky streak from eye to suprascapula along side of body to caudal base above ending in black paleedged ocellus about size of pupil.
Six broad transverse duskyolive bands cross dark lateral streak each much wider than interspaces.
Behind pectoral dark band broken regularly by pale vertical interspace first and penultimate resulting dark blotches especially dark or blackish.
Costal region with pale round median spot on each scale and hind edge of each scale also with dark vertical bar.
Vertical 1 Proc.
Z. Soc.
London 1913 p. 1013. fins grayish on outer portions brownish basally with obscurely mottled appearance on spinous dorsal.
Last membranes of soft dorsal and anal with few small pale gray spots also similar spots on middle of caudal.
Pectoral gray.
Ventral whitish graybrown on front outer portion hind edges white.
Iris neutral tint.
In the young examples edge of spinous dorsal and front upper edge of soft dorsal marooncolor fins blotched lengthwise with darker olive.
Several pale spots at bases of last dorsal and anal rays.
Front ventral edge and lower anal edge broadly gamboge.
Length 33 to 100 mm.
Bufo valliceps Wiegmann.
Four examples snout to vent 26 to 40 mm.
Hyla bocourti Mocquard.
Head little longer than wide.
Snout rounded little longer than eye.
Canthus rostralis distinct.
Loreal region slightly oblique and concave.
Tongue ovoid slightly emarginate behind.
Vomerine teeth in two small slightly oblique groups between choanae.
Interorbital little wider than upper eyelid.
Tympanum distinct nearly half diameter of eye.
Skin weakly though finely granular above belly and lower femoral region coarsely granular Fingers very slightly webbed at bases.
Toes twothirds webbed and disks half size of tympanum.
Distinct fold along inner tarsal edge.
Graybrown above paler or whitish beneath in alcohol.
Dull brownish obscure interorbital bar and similar band from each upper eyelid down back to vent with narrow vertebral separation.
More contrasted dark brown band from each side of snout tip back to eye including tympanum and ending in groin and narrow whitish line along its entire upper edge.
Length from snout to vent 17 mm.
It resembles Hyla eximia Baird in having the dark lateral band from snout to groin.
It differs in the obscure dark dorsal band each side of the vertebral line and the toes better webbed.
Eleutherodactylus humeralis sp.
nov.
Fig.
2.
Body well depressed elongately ovoid in contour as seen from above and width slightly greater than length of head.
Latter very broad well depressed.
Snout flattened above and contour as seen from above broadly triangular tip obtuse.
Canthus rostralis distinct.
Loreal region level and oblique.
Eye moderate about f length of snout or equal to space between front eye edge and nostril.
Mouth large rictus falling about opposite hind edge of eye.
lips moderate.
Maxillary teeth uniserial conic mostly uniform.
1916.
395 Vomerine teeth in two large patches rather closely approximate oblique and behind hind edges of choanse.
Tongue broadly ovoid last third free and hind edge generally convex except slight median emargination.
Choanse smaller than vomerine patches of teeth.
InterorbitaJ flattened upper eyelid  its width.
Tympanum ellipsoid  eyediameter.
Skin largely smooth a few granules around vent and postfemoral region.
No distinct fold across throat or breast.
Fig.
2.
 Eleutkerodactylus humeralis Fowler.
Limbs all slender.
Fingers free and only outer toes onethird webbed.
First finger little longer than second and slightly swollen basally.
Third finger longest.
Tubercles on phalanges apparently well developed.
Disks on toes and fingers moderately small rounded apparently not quite half size of tympanum.
Toes slender fourth much longest.
Apparently no tarsal fold though hind tubercle distinct.
Color in alcohol pale graybrown generally above lower surfaces 27 largely uniform whitish.
On upper surface of snout two small blackish rings near canthus rostralis and midway in snout length.
On each scapular region two similar ones.
Narrow dusky streak or line across interorbital from one eyelid to the other.
Duskyblack band from each side of snout tip back below eye including tympanum to shoulder.
Several obscure dusky small circles form irregular dark triangle on front of pelvis above.
Each joint of fore limbs with several obscure brownish transverse bars one of which with black blotch on each ulna and humerus.
Hind limbs with three or more similar obscure crossbars.
Outer surface of femur near knee with three more or less connected blackish blotches.
Both outer and inner edges of hind limbs including tibia tarsus and metatarsus dusky.
Lips mottled with brownish.
Length from snout tip to vent 33 mm.
Type No.
19593 A. N. S. P. Guapilis Costa Rica.
July 1915.
D. E. Harrower.
This species appears closely related to E. bocourti Brocchi 2 but differs in several respects.
E. bocourti has the partly circular tongue entire the tympanum onethird the eye first and second fingers of nearly equal length toes with a rudimentary web and arms and legs marbled with brown above.
Humeralis with reference to the dark blotches on the humerus near the knee.
Dendrobates tinctorum Keferstein.
One example dull crimsonpurple above variegated with darker markings.
A small one beautiful dark crimson marked with blackish dots on the back and head above.
Its lower surface is blotched with blackish.
Another larger example buff in general tint marked or speckled with blackish above and upper surface of hind limbs and lower surface of same blackish.
Throat and belly pale buff with few scattered dusky specks.
Altogether four 13 to 22 mm. measured from snout to vent.
Rana caeruleopunctata Steindachner.
Color in alcohol dark olive on back with obscure small rounded dull dark bluish spots down middle from between eyes to vent.
Blackish band begins on each side of snout near tip extends back below eye broadens includes tympanum and continues to groin edged very narrowly above its whole extent with whitish line.
From  2 Hylodes bocourti Brocchi Miss.
Sc.
Mex.
Batr. 187  50 PI.
16 fig.
2.
Coban Guatemala.
below eye to shoulder distinct broader white line forms pan of lower margin.
Dusky band from fore part of shoulder on front forearm.
Front limbs brownish blotched with darker and brown streak along entire hind edges.
Hind limbs brownish above each with two or three dusky crossbars on upper surfaces.
Hind surface of each femoral region above with two large golden blotches lower surface mostly whitish and immaculate.
Throat breast and belly mottled brownishdusky.
Glandular fold scarcely developed.
Length snout tip to vent 28 mm.
Chirripo River Valley.
A few specimens were obtained in this region during late July.
Phryniscus varius Keferatein.
Color when fresh brilliant mossgreen marked with bright chromeyellow spots on back and crossbars on upper surfaces of limbs.
Lower surface of body pale yellowish marked with slaty blotches and irregular splotches or bands.
Another example also bright green above finely speckled with blackish yellow blotches edged with dusky and sides slatygray.
Under surface pale yellowishwhite with irregular slatygray blotches more sharply defined on lower femoral region.
A third example black above with bright cadmiumorange blotches from behind eye on sides and upper surfaces of limbs.
Middle of back with small chromeyellow specks.
Lower surface of head and line above upper lip chromeyellow throat with several large black blotches.
Under surface of head black like back marked with chromeyellow blotches.
Length 31 to 41 mm. from snout tip to vent.
Oxybelis acuminatus Wied.
One example 392 mm.
Port Lemon.
A more representative collection was gathered during July and August than elsewhere in Costa Rica during this trip.
The fishes were all obtained from fishermen or in the markets.
Albula vulpes Linne.
One 147 mm.
long.
Sardinella humeralis Valenciennes.
Four examples 115 to 120 mm.
Opi8tb.onema oglinum Le Sueur.
One 190 mm.
Scomberomorus cavalla Cuvier.
Two 127 to 195 mm.
Uaranx crysos Mitchill.
One 125 mm.
Caranx latus Agaasiz.
One 97 mm.
Head 3 depth 2 scutes 35 snout 3 in head eye 3 maxillary 2 interorbital 3f  curved part of lateral line If in straight portion.
Opercular spot obsolete.
Narrow naked area medianly on front of breast.
Vomer setapinnis Mitchill.
Two 122 and 131 mm.
Chloroscombrus chrysurus Linne.
Four 118 to 140 mm.
Traohinotus glaucus Bloch.
One 128 mm.
Trachinotus argenteus Valenciennes.
Head 3 depth 2 D. I VII 23 A. III 21 snout 4 in head eye 3 maxillary 2 interorbital 2f.
Body deep compressed.
Head compressed.
Snout broadly convex length half its width.
Eye large adiposeeyelid rather well developed.
Maxillary reaches about opposite first third in eye.
Teeth fine conic in narrow band above and in broad band below.
Mouth rather small lower jaw much shorter.
Nostrils together on middle of front surface of snout.
Interorbital high convex.
Rakers about 6  10 lanceolate about j of eye.
Scales small.
Lateral line complete slightly wavy in front.
Last dorsal spine longest.
Soft dorsal with distinct lobe in front and when depressed reaches f in total length of fin.
Soft anal also with short front lobe when depressed  total length of fin.
Caudal strongly forked tip of each lobe sharp and an eyediameter longer than head.
Pectoral 1 in head.
Ventral shorter 2 in head.
Color in alcohol grayish above sides and below silverywhite.
Front lobe of soft dorsal dusky also outer edge of upper caudal lobe fins otherwise whitish.
Iris whitish.
Length 135 mm.
This littleknown fish differs from T. carolinus Linn when examples of the same size are compared in the larger eye more pointed dorsal anal and caudal lobes blackish tip of dorsal lobe and dusky edges to caudal lobes.
Pomadasis ramosus Poey.
Two 150 and 180 mm.
Eucinostomus harengulus Goode and Bean.
Two 110 mm.
Gerres olisthostomus Goode and Bean.
Three 96 to 188 mm.
Larimus breviceps Cuvier.
Two 128 and 130 mm.
Polydactylus virginicus Linne.
Two 190 and 205 mm.
Cichlasoma maculicauda Regan.
Two 105 and 152 mm.
Hyla punctariola Peters.
Head long as broad.
Snout triangular little longer than eye.
Canthus rostralis distinct.
Loreal region level oblique.
Tongue ovoid last third free hind edge slightly emarginate.
Vomerine teeth in two small slightly oblique groups well separated and close behind choanae.
Interorbital little wider than upper eyelid.
Tympanum obscure apparently slightly less than half of eye.
Skin smooth above also on throat.
Belly and lower femoral region granular.
Fingers entirely free.
Inner toes slightly webbed basally.
Disks about half of eye.
Several metatarsal tubercles and one at heel.
Light buffbrown on back and upper surfaces of limbs which latter with obscure crossblotches or spots.
Supraorbital width darker brown than rest of upper surface of head.
Upper lip whiteedged.
Lower surface of body creamywhite under a lens seen to be marked most everywhere with minute yellowish dots.
Disks all whitish.
Length from snout tip to vent 27 mm.
Eleutherodactylus polyptychus Cope.
Great variation in color is noticeable in the seven examples from this locality.
The largest brownish down middle of back streaked irregularly on tubercles with dusky.
Head brown above upper lip with short dark streaks.
Limbs brownish above front pair paler and hind pair each with three or four dusky crossbars on femur tibia tarsus and metatarsus.
Lower surface of body and sides whitish latter formed in contrast as brown streak continues back from eye including tympanum and fades out on front side of belly.
Several of the larger examples show a ruddy tinge on the femoral surface closing against the groin and inner surfaces of femur and tibia.
Smaller examples all present less striking colorpattern especially on sides which only slightly paler.
In all dark crossbars on hind limbs conspicuous.
One small example shows narrow pale vertebral line.
Another has blackish streak from eye over shoulder very pronounced.
Largest example 23 mm. measured from snout tip to vent smallest 9.
Dendrobates tinctorum Keferstein.
Six examples all uniform dark purplishblack in alcohol.
Length 20 to 22 mm. measured from snout tip to vent.
Eublepharis dovii Boulenger.
Two examples 80 to 127 mm.
Anolis lunifrons Cope.
Dewlap little developed and sides of neck crimson.
Nine examples 80 to 127 mm.
Anolis insignis Cope.
One 220 mm.
Anolis capito Peters.
Two 80 to 202 mm.
Anolis humilis Peters.
Five 38 to 65 mm.
Ameiva festiva Lichtenstem.
One 238 mm.
Ameiva undulata quadrilineata Hallowell.
Two 170 and 182 mm.
long.
These represent Ameiva gabbiana Cope merged in the synonymy of the present species by Dr. Boulenger.
They vary slightly.
The single enlarged rounded preanal plate is present.
Scales in middle of throat but slightly enlarged and collar with an enlarged plate each side of median line.
Humeral scutes in one row.
Great variation is also seen in the scutes on top of the head.
In one example the frontonasal is not in contact with the posteronasal as a small scale intervenes.
Scales in the supraorbital semicircles and at occiput quite variable.
Some blackish dots on throat.
THE CANAL ZONE.
The collections from this section were obtained at Colon Gatun Pedro Miguel Empire and Panama and are from both Atlantic and Pacific drainages.
Colon.
Only marine fishes were obtained at this locality.
A number of smaller species were collected on the reef at Torro Point in the Caribbean during July in which case the locality is given.
Rhinobatos percellens Walbaum.
One agreeing with an example from Trinidad.
Tarpon atlanticus Valenciennee.
Small one 107 mm.
long.
Sardinella humeralis Valenoiennea.
One 100 mm.
Opisthonema oglinum Le Sueur.
Three 80 to 90 mm.
long.
Also three from Torro Point 57 to 85 mm.
long.
All have median caudal rays dusky and row of dark spots on side back from gillopening.
Anchovia gilberti Evermann and Marsh.
One example 118 mm.
Hyporhamphus unifasciatus Ranzani.
Two 156 and 166 mm.
Lower caudal lobe slightly longer than upper.
Sphyraena barracuda Walbaum.
One 130 mm.
long from Torro Point.
Sphyraena guachancho Cuvier.
One example 168 mm.
Mugil curema Valenciennes.
One small example from Torro Point.
Holocentrus adscensionis Osbeck.
One 153 mm.
long.
Holocentrus siccifer Cope.
One from Torro Point differs from the type as figured by me in the black markings on the first two membranes of the spinous dorsal entirely of that color except the narrowly whitish base.
All other membranes of spinous dorsal dusky to blackish especially basally.
Length 52 mm.
Scomberomorus cavalla Cuvier.
Four largest 148 mm.
in length.
Caranx hippos Linne.
Two examples 150 and 165 mm.
Caranx crysos Mitchill.
One 132 mm.
long.
Vomer setapinnis Mitchill.
Two 123 and 183 mm.
Chloroscombrus ohrysurus Linn6.
One 140 mm.
long.
Seserinus paru Linn6.
One 138 mm.
Centropomus undecimalis Bloch.
One 254 mm.
Rypticus arenatus Cuvier.
One 130 mm.
Lutianus apodus Walbaum.
One 126 mm.
long.
Also two from Torro Point 42 and 43 mm.
Rhomboplites aurorubens Cuvier.
One 160 mm.
Haemulon parra Desmarest.
One 145 mm.
Haemulon plumieri Lac6pede.
Two 133 and 142 mm.
Haemulon flavolineatum Desmarest.
One 140 mm.
Brachygenys chrysargyreus Gunther.
Two 143 and 152 mm.
Pomadasis ramosus Poey.
One 128 mm.
Orthopristis scapularis Fowler.
One 170 mm.
long.
Archosargus unimaculatus Bloch.
One 120 mm.
Isopisthus harroweri sp.
nov.
Fig.
3.
Head 3 depth 4 D. VIIII n 16 i A. II i 18 P. in 16 V. I 5 scales 105 in series just above lateral line to caudal base 16 scales above lateral line to soft dorsal origin 16 scales below lateral line to anal origin about 48 scales before spinous dorsal origin about 60 pores in lateral line to caudal base and about 40 more pores over caudal fin head width 2f in its length head depth at occiput If third dorsal spine 2 first branched dorsal ray 2 first branched anal ray 2  least depth of caudal peduncle 3 caudal If pectoral If ventral If snout 4 in head measured from upper jaw tip eye 4f  maxillary 2 interorbital 3.
Body elongate slender well compressed edges mostly convex 1910.
103 and rather long occipital keel from occipital process slightly trenchant.
Caudal peduncle compressed least depth If its length.
Head well compressed upper profile concave over eye otherwise convex and lower profile steeply inclined convexly.
Flattened sides of head approximated below.
Snout convex so that tip of upper jaw level with upper eye edge length f its width.
Eye large rather high little longer than deep well anterior.
Mouth large greatly inclined and lower jaw strongly protruding.
Maxillary extends hack opposite middle of eye.
Teeth large conic and depressible in outer series in upper jaw which also with one enlarged fanglike Canine in front and all along inner edges band of fine teeth.
Lower teeth erect firm conic several enlarged along sides of jaw though between them also single row of small simple teeth.
Tongue I so pistli us harroweri Fowler.
long smooth free rounded in front.
Mandible convex over surface capable of great dilation.
Nostrils together close before and slightly above upper edge of eye.
Interorbital convex.
Suprascapula jagged and hind edge notched.
Opercle with large angular membranous flap behind.
Hind preopercular edge with membranous edge notched finely.
Gillopening extends forward about opposite front nostril.
Rakers iv 18 iv lanceolate 2 in eye.
Filaments about long as rakers.
Isthmus narrowly and deeply trenchant.
Scales small cycloid more or less irregularly disposed and very loosely adherent.
Head scaly about 6 rows on cheek.
On trunk scales smaller and with more crowded appearance on median dorsal line about bases of dorsals and caudal.
Rather large scales forming sheath along anal base.
Soft dorsal and anal mostly covered with inconspicuous small scales.
Lateral line complete nearly concurrent with dorsal profile.
Tubes double on each scale rather large.
Spinous dorsal inserted little nearer origin of soft dorsal than hind eye edge third spine longest second and fourth subequal and depressed fin extends  to soft dorsal.
Latter inserted midway between hind preopercle edge and caudal base first branched ray highest and fin extends f to caudal base.
Anal inserted close behind soft dorsal origin little larger similar.
Caudal double truncate median rays longest and form point.
Pectoral long pointed upper median rays longest reach  to anal.
Ventral inserted little behind pectoral origin and fin half way to anal origin.
Color in alcohol brownisholive above sides and lower surface silverywhite.
Head olivaceous above whitish below.
Large dusky nebulous blotch on opercle.
Dorsals and caudal dull olive pectoral paler.
Ventrals yellowish tinged with orange basally.
Anal pale yellowish lower edge narrowly dusky.
Length 174 mm.
Type No.
45236 A. N. S. P. Colon Canal Zone.
D. E. Harrower.
Related to Isopisthus parvipinnis Valenciennes which would differ in having more dorsal rays 21 instead of 16 and fewer anal rays 16 or 17 instead of 18 fewer pores in the lateral line 52 to 54 instead of 60 and in having an indistinct elongate dark blotch from behind the eye to the middle of the opercle.
Named for Mr. D. E. Harrower who collected the type.
Cynoscion jamaicensis Vaillant and Bocourt.
One 145 mm.
Larimus breviceps Cuvier.
Two examples 114 and 158 mm.
Conodon nobilis LinD.
One 140 mm.
Umbrina coroides Valenciennes.
Two 164 and 182 mm.
Eucinostomus barengulus Goode and Bean.
Two 65 and 117 mm.
Gerres rhombeus Cuvier.
One 115 mm.
Polydactylus virginicus Linn One 196 mm.
Abudefduf mauritii Bloch.
Three from the reef at Torro Point 34 to 40 mm.
Eupomaoentrus fuscus Valenciennes.
Ten from the Torro Point reef.
Three which are young have a black ocellus at the base of soft dorsal in front a black saddlelike blotch on the upper surface of the caudal peduncle and a black axillary pectoral blotch.
Length 31 to 95 mm.
Iridio bivittatus Bloch.
Young example from the reef at Torro Point 26 mm.
in length.
Pomacanthus arcuatus Linne.
One example 114 mm.
long.
The transverse bands are bright lemonyellow.
Holacanthus tricolor Bloch.
One 145 mm.
long.
Hepatus caeruleus Schneider.
One 100 mm.
long.
Hepatus hepatus Linne.
Two 112 and 115 mm.
long.
Hepatus bahianus Oastelnau.
One 145 mm.
long.
Hind caudal edge narrowly whitish.
Spheroides testudineus Linne.
One 132 mm.
long.
Philypnus dormitor Lacepede.
One 125 mm.
long from the reef at Torro Point.
Dormitator maculatus Bloch.
One 78 mm.
long.
Mapo soporator Valenciennes.
Seven examples from the reef at Torro Point 36 to 67 mm.
long.
Rupiscartes atlanticus Valenciennes.
One from the Torro Point reef 70 mm.
long.
Ogilbia cayorum Evermann and Kendall.
One from Torro Point reef 72 mm.
long.
Cithariohthys arenaceus Evermann and Marsh.
One 133 mm.
long.
Gatun.
A small collection of freshwater fishes amphibians and lizards from this locality.
Brycon striatulus Kner.
Four examples 65 to 83 mm.
Astyanax aeneus Giinther.
Two 98 to 103 mm.
Mollienisia sphenops Valenciennes.
A large series of all ages 33 examples 29 to 52 mm.
Acara coeruleopunctata Kner and Steindachner.
Fourteen 47 to 82 mm.
Cichlasoma maculicauda Regan.
Nine examples all small about 53 mm.
Also large one 258 mm long.
Bufo marinus Linne.
Two 43 to 52 mm. from snout tip to vent.
Bufo typhonius Linne.
One with dark broad vertebral band 32 mm.
from snout tip to vent.
Eleutherodactylus nubilus Giinther.
Two examples 13 to 28 mm.
from snout tip to vent.
Anolis trochilus Cope.
Four examples 111 to 125 mm.
in total length.
Corythophanes cristatus Merrem.
One 240 mm.
Enyalioides heterolepis Bocourt.
One found around rocks near a stream.
Length 212 mm.
Ameiva ruthveni Barbour and Noble.
This is represented by one example 283 mm.
long.
It differs in several respects from the original account.
As there is a group of five anterior supraoculars with the second largest the frontal is in contact with the second third fourth and very slightly the fifth supraoculars.
No intercalated pair of scales between outer pair of large occipitals and frontoparietals.
The two posterior supraoculars are separated from the superciliaries by narrow wedges of granules in three or four rows behind.
About ten large scales in middle of chin posteriorly one enlarged twice size of any others.
From frontal down middle of back and tail anteriorly narrow pale streak.
Length 283 mm.
Apparently very closely related to Ameiva j 'estiva of which I have compared examples from Colombia and Nicaragua which agree with my Port Limon example.
191f.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
107 Pedro Miguel.
Rhamdia montaguensis .anther.
One example 145 mm.
Piabucina panamensis c sill.
Three 93 to 105 mm.
Active and difficult to secure.
Astyanax mexicanus Filippi.
Four examples 67 to 72 mm.
Poeciliopsis retropinna Regan.
One example a female 30 mm.
long.
Bufo marinus Linne.
One 45 mm.
long measured from snout to vent with three ticks on its back.
Bufo typhonius I.inn6.
Two small examples which agree with Ecuador material.
Length 31 and 32 mm.
from snout tip to vent.
Leptodactylus caliginosus Girard.
Vomerine teeth in two closely approximated areas.
Eye half length of snout.
Nostril near first third in snout length.
Tympanum  of eye.
Skin smooth except hind femoral region posteriorly which granular.
Slight fold extends from shoulder to groin.
Color in alcohol graybrown generally.
Broad blackish triangle between eyes.
Black band from each side of snout back including eye and tympanum to shoulder and posteriorly continued as several disconnected black spots.
On each side of back from above tympanum to groin above black band.
Middle of back with lengthwise blackish blotches forming two distinct series on pelvic region.
Groin oliveyellow with few dark cloudings.
Fore limbs marbled with dusky forming a large blotch at and behind elbow.
Hind limbs mottled in more contrast with dusky femoral and tibial regionwith several broad dark blotches as crossbars.
Tarsi and metatarsi dusky outer surfaces mottled or blotched with darker.
Under surface whitih lips mottled with grayish.
Length 86 and 91 nam. measured from snout tip to vent.
Locality given as Corozal.
Iguana tuberculata Laurenti.
Two young examples 247 and 251 mm.
Basiliscus basiliscus Linne.
A female containing eggs.
Length 107 mm.
Ameiva ameiva praesignis Baird and Girard.
Color in alcohol largely greenishbrown on back.
Yellow line each side of back extends from eye and another similar though white line from lower edge of eye to groin interspace jetblack with row of obscure whitish spots.
Black band also continued along side of tail at first fading out behind.
Tail brownish above mottled with dusky.
Below lower white lateral line which most pronounced gray shade and clouded with dusky or blackish.
Under surface of head and trunk graywhite.
Upper surface brown sides whitish.
Limbs brownish above reticulated with black forming two broad black lengthwise lines on hind femoral region and upper continued at first along tail basally short space gradually fading behind.
One example 255 mm.
Leptodeira polysticta Gunther.
One differing a little from Gunther 's figure in not having a distinct lengthwise dark bar dividing the neck but with a lengthwise dark brown saddlelike blotch pale in the middle.
Length 470 mm.
Elaps fulvius Linne.
Two examples 502 and 528 mm.
Empire.
Eleutherodactylus rhodopsis Cope.
Two examples 15 mm. measured from snout tip to vent.
Anolis trochilus Cope.
One example 83 mm.
long.
Anolis lionotus Cope.
Three 70 to 158 mm.
Nor ops auratus Daudin.
Three 114 to 161 mm.
Panama.
The fishes of Panama Bay have been elaborately treated by Profs.
C. H. Gilbert and E. C. Starks in 1905 so that the list here given is only supplementary.
Tachisurus steindachneri Gilbert and Starks.
Head 3 to 3 depth 4f to 5 D. I 6 and I 7 A. vi 13 and 13 snout 2f to 2 in head eye 5 to 5 mouth width 2f to 3 interorbital 2 dorsal spine If to 1.
Palatine teeth coarsely granular without a backward angle extending on inner edge.
Granulations or striae on head extend forward nearly opposite middle of eyes.
Fontanel extends hack as narrow groove to occipital plate.
Inner surfaces of ventral black front edge of fin white.
Pectoral similarly blackish inside.
Upper caudal lobe little longer.
Two examples 200 and 210 mm.
long.
They differ slightly from the figure given by Gilbert and Starks in the striae on top of the head extending more distinctly forward.
Muraena clepsydra Gilbert.
One 595 mm.
long.
Pceciliopsis presidionis Jordan and Culver.
Male and female 23 and 37 mm.
Tylosurus scapularis Jordan and Gilbert.
Caudal peduncle about wide as deep and lateral line forms slight though inconspicuous keel along each side.
Eye 7 in upper jaw 3 in postocular part of head.
Upper jaw nearly an eyediameter longer than lower and not completely closing against lower posteriorly so that distinct interval is seen between them.
D. n 14 A. ii 15.
Upper surface of body greenish in alcohol especially on head.
Sides and below silverywhite.
Narrow lateral band of leaden tapering or narrowed at shoulder and caudal base and more or less expanded behind.
Iris silverywhite.
Fins all pale.
Length 695 mm.
Holocentrus suborbitalis Gill.
Three examples 87 to 90 mm.
Mugil CUrema Valenciennes.
Fourteen small examples largest 122 mm.
Caranx hippos Unne.
Two 111 and 175 mm.
Caranx caballus Gunther.
One 160 mm.
long.
Vomer setapinnis Mitchill.
Two 172 and 182 mm.
Centropomus unionensis Bocourt.
One example 135 mm.
Alphestes multiguttatus Gunther.
Two 147 and 172 mm.
Pectoral with at least five distinct dark vertical crossbars.
Diplectrum radiale Quoy and Gaimard.
One 190 mm.
Called sand mullet.
Rypticus nigripinnis Gill.
Two small examples 48 and 49 mm.
Xenichthys xanti Gill.
One 162 mm.
Lythrulon flaviguttatum Gill.
Two 140 and 148 mm.
Anisotremus interruptus Gill.
Four young 30 to 54 mm.
Anisotremus taeniatus Gill.
One example 143 mm.
long.
Bairdiella ronchus Valenciennes.
Head 2 depth 3 D. XI n 25 A. II 8 scales 46 in lateral line to caudal base snout 3 f in head eye 4f  maxillary 2 interorbital 4.
Snout convexly protruding in upper profile.
Lower jaw slightly projects.
Lower teeth mostly uniserial enlarged conic.
Symphyseal knob distinct surmounted by two canines.
Eye little shorter than snout.
Preopercle denticles small larger one below directed forward.
Second anal spine 2 in head.
One example 178 mm.
long.
Eucinostomus californiensis Gill.
One 83 mm.
Gerres peruviaiius Valenciennes.
Three 75 to 85 mm.
TJpeneus grandisquamis Gill.
Four examples 117 to 164 mm.
Acara caeruleopunctata Kner and Steindachner.
One 148 mm.
Abudefduf mauritii Bloch.
Series of all ages which appear to agree with the Atlantic form.
Length 38 to 102 mm.
Abudefduf declivifrons Gill.
One example 67 mm.
Pseudoscarus perrico Jordan and Gilbert.
Called parrot chub.
Color in alcohol duskybrown generally.
Bluegreen spots radiate around eye.
Jaws greenish.
Vertical fins livid dull duskypurple edges of dorsals and anals narrowly bluegreen.
Dusky blotch at pectoral base fin pale.
Outer ventral edge pale rays brownish.
Iris yellowish.
Lengtih 206 mm.
Hepatus crestonis .frdan and Starks.
Head 3f depth If D. IX 25 A.
Ill 24 snout l l  in head i 4 interorbital 2 pectoral lj.
In alcohol largely uniform dark chocolatebrown.
Dorsals and anals blackish.
Caudal slightly paler basally.
Pectoral with broad whitish submarginal shade.
Length 103 nun.
Chaetodon humeralis Gunther.
One example 124 mm.
Jordan and Evermann state 3 dark hands across caudal peduncle at base of fin caudal fin with a faint band ventrals dark.
My example shows but a single dark transverse bar on caudal peduncle at caudal base and caudal fin with two very sharply contrasted blackish vertical bars slightly expanded medianly and anterior much wider than any of bars on caudal.
The ventrals are whitish with two very indistinct vertical gray bars.
Pomacanthus zonipectus Gill.
Head 3 depth If D. XI 25 A.
Ill 21 snout 3 in head eye S  interorbital 3.
Color faded in alcohol vertical pale lines whitish.
Traces of similarly curved lines parallel some irregular in dark .areas between whitish lines.
Also dark areas with numerous small obscure blackish spots.
Length 125 mm.
Chastodipterus zonatus Girard.
One example 148 mm.
Balistes vetula Linn6.
Two 100 and 103 mm.
long.
Spheroides annulatus Jenyns.
Two 49 and 94 mm.
long.
The dark spots are smaller and more numerous than in Atlantic examples of S. testudineus of the same size.
Diodon hystrix Linne.
Two examples 122 to 125 mm.
Scorpaena mystes Jordan and Starts.
Head 2 depth 3 D. XII 10 A.
Ill 5 scales 39 to caudal base and 2 more on latter along lateral line 7 scales above 1.1. 15 scales in vertical series between 1.1. and spinous dorsal origin snout 3f in head eye 5 maxillary 2 interorbital 5  about 27 pores in lateral line to caudal base.
No supraorbital cirrus.
Slight pit below front eye edge and suborbital stay.
Length 250 mm.
Mapo soporator Valenciennes.
Twentynine examples 25 to 122 mm.
28 ' Garmanina paradoxa Gtinther.
Head 3 depth 4 D. VII i 11 i A. i 9 i scales 15 in median series on hind part of trunk begin opposite origin of soft dorsal 8 scales transversely between last dorsal and anal rays snout 4 J in head eye 5 maxillary 2 interorbital about 11.
Gillrakers 18 short points with broad bases much shorter than filaments.
Color in alcohol pale brownish generally scarcely paler below.
About 13 pairs of deeper brownish transverse bars from back down along side and each 2 pairs placed closer to one another and in places irregularly joined.
Each bar seen to be forked as a darker reticulation around a paler spot or centre also reticulations of various extent.
Similar dark transverse bar extends down on cheek though narrower one immediately behind eye and another on top of head before gillopening not extending down on side of head.
Iris with pale circle around pupil.
Ventrals blackish edge narrowly whitish.
Fins all grayish clouded or obscurely marked with darker.
Length 42 mm.
Microgobius miraflorensis Gilbert and Starks.
One 26 mm.
long.
Gilbert and Starks give A.
17 though their figure shows i 10.
My example lacks the cirri about the jaws they represent and at present the dark spots on the fins are much more contrasted.
Hypsoblennius striatus Steindachner.
Fourteen examples 46 to 80 mm.
Batrachoides pacifici Giinther.
Two adults 178 and 222 mm.
long.
Young examples differ in the absence of scales.
Gobiesox microspilus sp.
nov.
Fig.
4.
Head 2 depth 5 D. 13 A.
9 P. 25 head width  its length snout 3 eye 6 mouth width 2 interorbital 2f third dorsal ray 3 third anal ray 3 least depth caudal peduncle 4 caudal If pectoral 2.
Body moderately long depressed forward compressed behind convex above flattened below and slight median groove before anal.
Caudal peduncle compressed short and little free.
Head large upper profile convex from snout tip to occiput lower nearly straight and horizontal.
Snout wide convex over surface length less than half its width as measured across front of eyes.
Eye ellipsoid high centre slightly behind first third in head length.
Eyelids not distinct skin of head passing over.
Mouth broad 1910.
ii.
 upper jaw slightly protruding.
Lips broad each fringed with lather long free dermal Maps.
Transverse groove of premaxillaries distinct on snout above.
Teeth in one row in each jaw simple conic two front ones enlarged or caninelike above.
Both jaws with anterior teeth little enlarged and in front of lower more so compressed or incisorlike their tips rather broadly triangular.
Inner buccal folds broad.
Tongue broad fleshy depressed free around edges.
Nostrils rather close together above level of eye near its front edge anterior in short fleshy tube and posterior simple pore.
Interorbital broad and slightly convex.
Opercular spine not extending through integument concealed.
Gillopening extends forward about opposite last  in head Gillrakers about 6 short rudimentary points much shorter than short gillfilaments.
Fig.
4.
 Gobiexu.c mierosfnlus Fowler.
Skin smooth.
A number of pores along lower side of head and about fringes of lips.
Dorsal inserted about midway between centre of head and caudal base tips of rays slightly protrude beyond connecting membranes.
Anal inserted slightly behind dorsal origin fin similar.
Cam hi I rounded behind.
Pectoral broad upper rays longer hind edge rounded with free fold in front opposite lower base and broad flap concealed behind axilla extends up from disk.
Disk large circular its length about  in head.
Margins of disk all for broad extent finely papillose.
Vent before anal though slightly behind origin of dorsal.
Color in alcohol dark chocolatebrown except lower surface of head and disk which whitish.
Entire upper surface marked with closely set dusky spots mostly of uniform size and all with a more or less lengthwise disposition.
Black blotch on head about an eyediameter behind eye on its level.
From eye dark spots are darkened to form obscure streak forward one below and one behind.
Vertical fins largely dusky or blackish.
Dorsal with subbasal lengthwise whitish streak one medianly and protruded tips of rays same color.
Anal with median lengthwise paler area protruded tips of rays whitish.
Caudal crossed by three obscure darker bands tips of rays whitish.
Pectorals brownish.
Iris slaty oliveyellowish circle around pupil.
Length 37 mm.
Type No.
45213 A. N. S. P. Panama in a pool.
May 30 1915.
D. E. Harrower.
Purchased.
Only the above example obtained.
This species is very closely allied with G. papillifer Gilbert from Lower California.
It differs in several respects.
G. papillifer has the teeth in both jaws biserial.
Its color is also said to be uniform dark olivaceous and the color of the fins is different.
Mtxpos small nrWop spot with reference to the coloration.
Bufo marinus Linne.
Two large examples 96 to 100 mm.
long measured from snout tip to vent.
Bufo valliceps Wiegmann.
Four 26 to 40 mm.
Bufo typhonius Linne.
One 21 mm.
Hyla moquardi Giinther.
Two about 20 mm.
Eleutherodactylus rhodopsis Cope.
One 14 mm.
Dendrobates tinctorum Keferatein.
Four examples caught in shrubbery.
Length 25 to 32 mm.
Pelamis bicolor Schneider.
One found swimming on the surface.
It was hit with an oar and then captured by a boatman.
Notes ON FISHES OF THE ORDERS HAPLOMI AND MICROCYPRINI.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
The present paper is an annotated list of the fishes of the above orders contained in the collection of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
HAPLOMI.
ESOCIDJ.
Esox americanus Gmelin.
New York Long Island New Jersey Pennsylvania Delaware Maryland North Carolina Catawba River South Carolina Pocataligo River near Manning Georgia Thomasville  Florida Volusia .
Esox vermiculatus Valenciennes.
E. cypho Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1854 p. 78.
Waterford Oakland County Michigan.
E. porosus Cope Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. 2 XIII 1866 p. M8 on above cypho regarded inept.
No.
7681 A. N. S. P. type of E. cypho Cope.
Waterford Michigan.
Ohio Hicksville  Indiana Richmond and Michigan City Georgia Etowah River Texas Beaumont.
Esox reticulatus Le Sueur.
New Jersey Pennsylvania Delaware Maryland District of Columbia Washington  North Carolina Neuse River  Florida.
Esox lucius Linne.
New York Lake George Indiana Wabash River Lake Erie Michigan Kewenah Point Iowa Hornick and Brook River Sweden Italy.
Esox masquinongy Mitchill.
Pennsylvania Lake Conneaut Michigan Saginaw Bay Minnesota Mankato Ontario Sparrow Lake.
UMBRIDiE.
Umbra limi Kirtland.
Pennsylvania Meadeville  Illinois Northfield Michigan Oakland County Minnesota Cedar Lake Minneapolis.
Umbra pygmaea De Kay New Jersey Pennsylvania Delaware Maryland Virginia Lower James River.
MICROOYPRINI.
PCEOILIIDl.
As pointed out by Regan this family embraces several welldefined subfamilies.
To these several others are likely valid as the Procatopince Procatopus  with the ventrals placed below the pectorals and the Lamprichthyinw Lamprichthys  with ctenoid scales and long anal fin 27 to 30 rays both off shoots from the Fundulince.
The Phallostethince Phallostethus diverge from the PoeciliinoB with the ventrals modified as an intromittent organ.
FUNDULINjE.
FUNDULUS LaeSpede.
GALASACCUS subgen.
nov.
Type Hydrargira similis Baird and Girard.
Form rather elongate.
Snout usually long and conspicuous.
Jaws wide sometimes produced.
Sexes usually unlike in coloration and female often with dark lengthwise lines.
Females also without an anal tube on front of anal fin but in its place basal sheath usually present.
No nuptial tubercles or denticles on anal rays of male during spawning season.
Hydrargira Lacepede cannot be used for this group as its monotype H. swampina Lacepede is a synonym of Cobitis heteroclita Linne and thus a synonym of Fundulus.
rdXa milk xx sack from the vernacular SacaLait of the typical species.
Fundulus similis Baird and Girard.
Hydrargira similis Baird and Girard Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1853 p. 389.
Indianola Texas.
Nos.
6987 and 6988 A. N. S. P. Cotypes of H. similis Baird and Girard.
Indianola Texas.
From the Smithsonian Institution.
Both small examples.
Miami River Dr. H. A. Pilsbry Boca Chica Key Fowler and Carrabelle M. Hebard Florida.
Fundulus majalis Walbaum.
Besides the large series of local or Middle Atlantic States specimens already recorded are others from Florida Bayport South Carolina Charleston and Hilton Head Massachusetts Woods Hole Nantucket and Salem.
Fundulus punctatus Gunther.
Central Guatemala Cope.
Subgenus FUNDULUS Lac6pdde.
Type Fundulus mudfish Lacpede.
Form short robust.
Snout short or moderate.
Jaws not produced.
Sexes unlike in coloration females usually paler or uniform.
Female with anal tube on first anal ray.
Anal rays of male usually with nuptial denticles during the spawning season.
Fundulus parvipinnis Girard.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1854 p. 154.
San Diego California.
No.
7255 A. N. S. P. Cotype.
From the Smithsonian Institution No.
938.
Fundulus heteroclitus Linne.
Fort Macon North Carolina Dr. H. C. Yarrow and Charleston South Caolina Dr. J. E. Holbrook.
Fundulus heteroclitus macrolepidotus Walbaum.
Besides a very large series from various of the Middle Atlantic States most of which have been listed are examples from New York Hudson River at Piermont Long Beach South Long Beach Nassau on Long Beach and New York Harbor Connecticut Sachems Head and Scotts Cove near Darien Rhode Island Newport Massachusetts Woods Hole Nantucket and Boston.
Fundulus heteroclitus badius Carman.
Prince Edward Island and Magdalen Islands Canada.
1 Fundulus grandis Baird and Girard.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1853 p. 389.
Indianola Texas.
No.
7420 A. N. S. P. Cotype.
J. H. Clark.
From the Smithsonian Institution No.
650.
Bayport Cope and Carrabelle M. Hebard Florida.
Fundulus nisorius Cope.
Proc.
Ainer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. XI 1870 p. 456.
Gaboon West Africa.
Head 3 to 3 depth 31 to 4 D. usually i 11 often i 10 rarely i 12 A. usually i 10 often i 9 rarely i 8 or i 11  scales usually 32 often 33 sometimes 31 34 or 35 in lateral series medianly to caudal base and usually 4 rarely 3 or 5 more on latter snout 3 to 4 in 1 Proc.
Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
Phila. 1515 p. 518. head measured from snout tip eye 2f to 4J maxillary 2f to 3 interorbital 2 to 2f.
Body rather robust compressed more so in male.
Head short obtuse.
Snout depressed length f to  its width.
Eye close to upper profile centre near first third in head.
Mouth moderate lower jaw obtuse projects.
Teeth conic fine in bands in jaws outer row enlarged.
Interorbital flat.
Gillrakers 2 or 3  9 lanceolate about half length of filaments.
Scales largest on top of head smaller on breast belly and caudal base.
Lateral line complete inconspicuous as single small pore on middle of exposure of each scale medianly along side.
Dorsal origin little nearer caudal base than gillopening in adult female much nearer latter in young and adult male.
Anal origin about opposite second branched dorsal ray base fin much higher than dorsal.
Female without anal sheath though with long simple tube long as first ray.
Caudal truncate rounded convexly behind Avhen spread open.
Pectoral not quite reaching ventral latter not to anal.
Paired fins still shorter in adult female.
Color in alcohol of male brownish generally little paler below.
Sides with about fourteen to seventeen narrow vertical bars less than half width of exposed scales.
Also in course of each bar scattered pearly or whitish rounded spots smaller and more crowded about caudal base.
Vertical fins dusky with irregular and variable whitish spots smaller on caudal and edges of all these fins broadly whitish.
Female uniform brownish paler on under surfaces and without dusky or dark pectorals and ventrals of male.
Male with terminal portions of anal rays covered with little points or denticles row to each shaft.
These absent in female though in some females a few little points or granules on rays of dorsal fin on their outer portions.
Length 33 to 91 mm.
Nos.
7227 to 7233 and 7293 to 7303 A. N. S. P. Cotypes of F. nisorius Cope.
Gaboon West Africa.
P. B. Duchaillu.
This very interesting species incompletely described by Cope is the exact African counterpart of F. heteroclitus.
It resembles the latter in almost all respects and differs in but few minor characters as shorter pectorals etc.
Fundulus antillarum sp.
nov.
Fig.
1.
Head 3 depth 3f D. i 11 A. i 9 P. 16 V. i 5 scales about 34 in median lateral series to caudal base and 4 more on latter 13 scales transversely between dorsal and anal origins about 23 predorsal scales head depth at occiput If its length head width If fifth branched dorsal ray If fifth branched anal ray If least depth of caudal peduncle If caudal 1 T V pectoral 1 ventral 2 1916.
I lit snout 3 in head measured from upper jaw tip eye 1
 maxillary 3 interorbital 2 1  .
Body moderately long also moderately depressed anteriorly well compressed behind back scarcely elevated.
Caudal peduncle robust well compressed about long as deep.
Head moderately short wide above upper profile uearly straight from snout tip to oeciput and less inclined than lower.
Sid.of head moderately approximated below.
Snout short depressed length about  its width.
Eye rounded high or close to upper profile and its centre near first f in length of head.
Mouth rather small lateral cleft light oblique.
Premaxillaries well protractile.
Maxillary extends down till close before front edge of eye.
Lips moderately fleshy.
Teeth all simple conic in bands in jaws and 1 iu.
1.
 Fundulus anlillarum Fowler.
outer row enlarged and slightly curved.
Upper and lower inner buccal folds moderately wide entire.
Tongue fleshy depressed elongate end rounded and free in front.
Lower jaw robust protrudes beyond upper convex over surface and in profile.
Nostrils superior in front of interorbital space and front edge of eye.
Interorbital space depressed or flattened and slight median transverc depression over front of eyes.
Hind preopercle edge slightly inclined forward.
Gillopening extends forward about opposite hind edge of eye.
Gillrakers 29 lanceolate about half length of gillfilaments which slightly less than horizontal diameter of eye.
Isthmus wide.
Branchiostegals 4.
Scales moderate with concentric striae larger on front predorsal region and top of head and smaller on breast prepectoral region and caudal base.
Cheek with 3 rows of scales.
Lateral line complete inconspicuous developed as single small pore on each exposure of scale.
Dorsal origin slightly nearer gillopening than caudal base branched rays about uniformly high and extend  space to caudal base.
Anal inserted about opposite base of second or third dorsal ray and median posterior rays longest longer than dorsal rays and reach f to caudal base.
Caudal apparently truncate behind rounded as spread open.
Pectoral low rather small reaches about f to ventral.
Latter inserted nearly midway between front of eye and caudal base fin reaching vent close before anal.
Color in alcohol largely dull brownish with faint olivaceous tinge especially above.
Each scale with a rounded paler basal spot.
These spots at intervals of several scales each with pearly tint or whitish so that traces of about a dozen vertical whitish streaks occur.
Fins brownish dorsal and caudal little darker.
Dorsal with several large creamcolored blotches about basal portion of fin and caudal with three irregular and obscure vertical darker crossbars.
Iris pale yellowish.
Length 78 mm.
Type No.
7225 A. N. S. P. St. Martins Danish West Indies.
Dr. R. E. Van Rijgersma.
Also No.
7226 A. N. S. P. Paratype same data.
Head 3f depth 4 D. i 10 A. i 9 scales about 31 to caudal base and 5 more on latter 13 scales transversely between dorsal and anal origins about 25 predorsal scales snout 3 in head measured from upper jaw tip eye 3 maxillary 3 interorbital 2.
Length 76 mm.
This example a female and its coloration largely like the type.
Dorsal and caudal fins differ only in being uniform brownish.
Anal with a welldeveloped tube along its front edge but little shorter than first anal ray.
This species is very closely related to F. heteroclitus.
Compared with examples of equal size but slight though apparently constant points of difference are noted.
The males of both species are quite similar though in F. heteroclitus the white spots on the dorsal are much smaller.
As the female of F. heteroclitus is uniform brownish the female of F. antillarum differs in having the base of each scale with a whitish spot.
In proportions measurements etc. the two species are similar.
A large series of F. heteroclitus easily covers the structural characters.
1 first thought this species was F.fonticoh Valenciennes.
2 It is described with twelve anal rays apparently deeper body and possibly smaller rounded dorsal and caudal.
Valenciennes says ' La couleur parait avoir etc un vert uniforme sur tout le corps et je ne voia aucune tache sur les nageoires.
He also gives the following remark which may in part refer to F. antillarum Une note ajoutie a la fin de cet article fait penser que M. Plee croyait aussi qui ce poisson habite la Martinique car il dit 'ce sont les poissons qu'on appelle dormeurs dans nos isle.
Les atil confondus avec de jeunes Eleotris qui sont ainsi denommes 
This is interesting as showing the possible occurrence of Fundulus in the Lesser Antilles now fully corroborated by the present species.
Another species likely closely related is F. bermudce Gunther.
3 It appears to differ in the smaller head dorsal rays fourteen and anal rays twelve.
Later this was redescribed as F. rhizophorcc Goode 4 with its color given as light tawnybrown with about fifteen regular transverse bands of greenishbrown each two scales in width and most distinct on trunk posteriorly.
No mention is made of the color of the fins.
The only remaining West Indian species is F. cubensis Eigenmann 6 which differs entirely in its large scales 24 advanced dorsal and anal and coloration.
Named for the Lesser Antilles.
Fundulus hispanicus Valenciennes.
One from Spain in poor state of preservation.
Possibly it differs largely in the more posterior position of the dorsal and anal fins which are exactly opposite from the American species.
It approaches Zygonectes in the large scales 29 to 32 and small dorsal 9 to 11.
Subgenus FONTINUS Jordan and Evermann.
Type Fundulus seminolis Girard.
Form long slender.
Snout short or moderate.
Jaws not produced.
Sexes unlike in coloration during spawning season otherwise of similar barred appearance.
Females with anal sheath but no anal tube extending beyond.
Males brilliant sometimes with denticles or tubercles on body and fins during the spawning season.
Fundulus diaphanus Le Sueur.
A very large series from the Middle Atlantic States already 2 Hid.
Nat Poiss. XVIII 1846 p. 198 148.
Porto Rico.
Ann.
Man.
Nat.
Hist.
London 4 XIV 1874 p. 370.
Bermudas.
 Amer.
Jour.
Sc.
Art.
CSi.
XIV.
1877 p. 298.
Balden Pond Bermuda.
5 Bull.
C S. F. Com.. 1902 1904 p. 222 fig.
1.
Rio del Pillar Cuba.
recorded besides examples from Massachusetts Cambridge  Rhode Island Newport New York Sing Sing.
Fundulus diaphanus menona Jordan and Copeland.
Indiana Chicago Illinois Grosse Isle Michigan.
Fundulus zebrinus Jordan and Gilbert.
Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. No.
17 1882 p. 891 based on Hydrargyra zebra Girard Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1859 p. 60.
Tributary of the Rio Grande between Fort Defiance and Fort Union New Mexico.
Not of De Kay 1842.
No.
7352 A. N. S. P. cotype of H. zebra Girard.
Coll.
Mollhausen.
Smithsonian Institution No.
2590.
Also a fine series from Indiana Wabash River  Iowa Silver Lake Texas Red River in Staked Plain from Brazos River to Texas Tuli Canyon south of Clarendon between Seymour and Austin and Comanche Creek at Fort Macon.
Fundulus seminolis Girard.
Lake Kerr Florida.
Subgenus XENISMA Jordan.
Type Xenisma stellifera Jordan.
Form long very slender.
Snout short or moderate.
Jaws not produced.
Sexes unlike in coloration during spawning season otherwise of similar finely spotted appearance.
Females with anal sheath but no anal tube extending beyond.
Males brilliant and anal prickly in spawning season.
Fundulus catenatus Storer.
Virginia Holston River Arkansas Eureka Springs and Tennessee Coal Creek in Clinch River basin .
Fundulus stellifer Jordan.
Xenisma stellifer Jordan Ann.
Lye.
N. Hist.
N. Y. 1870 p. 322.
Etowah and Oostanaula Rivers Rome Georgia.
Nos.
20718 to 20720 A. N. S. P. paratypes of X. stellifer Jordan.
Rome Georgia.
D. S. Jordan.
From E. D. Cope.
Subgenus ZYGONECTES Agassiz.
Type Poecilia olivacea Storer.
Form elongate fusiform.
Snout short or moderate.
Jaws not produced.
Sexes unlike in coloration at least during spawning season.
Females with anal sheath but no anal tube extending beyond.
Males brilliant and anal sometimes prickly in spawning season.
Dorsal and anal fins small former distinctly inserted behind origin of latter.
Fundulus floripinnis Cope Haplochilus floripinnis Cope.
Zool.
Wheeler's Surv.
Terr. Is..
187 p. 695 PL 28 figs.
I ab.
Colorado and Platte Rivers al Denver Colorado
Nos.
18733 to 18738 A. N. S. P. cotypes of .
floripinnis  ope.
Fundulus pulvereus Evermann.
Baldwin Lodge Mississippi.
Fundulus sciadicus Copi Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1865 p. 78.
Platte River Nebraska.
Nos.
7183 to 7201 A. N. S. P. Cotypes.
Dr. W. A. Hammond.
Fundulus luciae Baird.
A large cries of examples from the Middle Atlantic Stales.
All but the examples obtained at Anglesea New Jersey on October 3 1897 by Messrs. V.
J.
Fox and P. Laurent have been recorded.
Fundulus chrysotus Gunthcr.
Tick Island in Spring Garden Creek of the St. John's River basin Dr. H. A. Pilsbry and C. W. Johnson and the everglades at Miami River in Dade County S. N. Rhoads Florida.
Also an example from Beaumont Texas.
Fundulus balboae sp.
nov.
Fig.
2.
Head 3f depth 4f  D. n 8 A. i 12 P. i 12 V. i 5 scales 34 in median lateral series to caudal base and 5 more on latter 10 scales between dorsal and anal origins about 30 predorsal scale head width If its length head depth at occiput If snoul 3 eye 3f  maxillary 4f interorbital 2 sixth branched dorsal ray If tenth branched anal ray 1 least depth of caudal peduncle 2 caudal 1 T V pectoral If ventral If.
Body elongate moderately depressed above in front compressed behind.
Caudal peduncle compressed least depth little less than its length.
Head depressed above less so below and profiles nearly straight though lower little more inclined.
Snout broad depressed length  its width.
Eye large rounded slightly before middle in length of head close to upper profile and extends more on under surface of head than on upper surface.
Mouth terminal gape not quite half way to eye.
Premaxillaries protractile.
Maxillary reaches back opposite hind nostril.
Jaws robust protruding and lower projecting slightly beyond upper.
Bands of fine teeth in jaws and an outer rather wideset row of slightly enlarged simple conic teeth.
Lower jaw rather shallow rami not elevated inside mouth.
Liprather fleshy.
Tongue fleshy free in front and about edges well 424 June back in mouth.
Upper buccal fold moderately broad lower narrower.
Nostrils lateral on snout above near front of eye.
Interorbital slightly convex.
Hind preopercle edge slightly inclined backwards.
Gillopening' extends forward about opposite hind pupil edge.
Gillrakers about 1  7 short robust points much shorter than gillfilaments latter about If in eye.
Isthmus narrow.
Scales cycloid with many concentric striae little smaller on breast and belly more so on caudal base.
Scales larger on head above and front predorsal region.
Lateral line imperfect and incomplete at row of pores one to each scale in middle of its exposure to ventral behind latter dropping a row of scales and then extending to caudal base.
Dorsal origin about last third in space between centre of eye and caudal base sixth branched ray highest and depressed fin extending Fig.
2.
 Fundulus balhoce Fowler.
back to caudal base.
Front  of anal base before dorsal or origin of fin little nearer gillopening than caudal base fin like dorsal only falling slightly shorter of caudal base.
Caudal oblong hind edge apparently slightly convex.
Pectoral small reaches f to ventral latter reaching anal.
Color in alcohol dark olivebrownish generally with apparently more or less uniform groundcolor.
A dark or dusky longitudinal band from mouth to eye behind latter to gillopening and continued to caudal base.
After gillopening this band extends below median axis of trunk and its width slightly less than vertical eyediameter.
Iris warm brownish.
Fins uniform pale brownish except dorsal and upper part of caudal which marked with a few rather wideset dark brownish spots.
Length 62 mm.
Type No.
16728 A. X. S. I'.
Panama.
Lieutenant Fields.
Only the above example known.
It is apparently not closely related to any of the known species of the subgenus.
Named for Balboa Panama.
Fundulus nottii Agassis.
Indiana North Carolina Wilmington Georgia Thomasvil Florida Leon County and Walaka.
Fundulus notatus Rafinesque.
F. minus Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sri.
l'liila. L865 p. 7.
Detroil River Grosse Isle Michigan.
No.
7142 A. N. S. P. type of F. aureus Cope.
Illinois Illinois River basin at Marley Missouri Arkansas Indian Territory Texas Fort Worth.
CHRIOPEOPS subgen.
nov.
Type Lucania goodei .Ionian.
Form fusiform elongate.
Teeth in jaws in two series simple conic outer row enlarged.
Jaws short obtuse.
Dorsal fin inserted slightly before anal origin.
Female with an anal sheath.
Differs from the other subgenera of Fundulus in the dentition as all have the inner teeth in a fine villiform band at least in more than one row.
It resembles certain species of Zygonectes in the black lateral band but the anterior position of the dorsal at once distinguishes it.
Small fishes little over an inch in length.
Chriope an old name for Notropis bifrenatus and ' appearance to which the type species bears a close superficial resemblance.
Fundulus goodei Jordan.
Miami and everglades at Miami River S. N. Rhoads and Tick Island in Spring Garden Creek of St. John's River basin Dr. H. A. Pilsbry Florida.
 iXVZYGOXECTES subgen.
nov.
Type Haplochilus dovii Gunther.
Jaws long and spatulate.
Gillrakers rather numerous 22 to 24 much more so than in many of the subgenera.
Dorsal fin inserted entirely behind anal.
This subgenus differs from Zygonectes in the long anal with 13 to 16 rays compared with 8 to 12 in Zygonectes.
The peculiar physiognomy with the extremely depressed head is also a point of difference.
'' pointed  Zygom ctes.
 Fundulus dovii Giinther.
Central America Cope .
Aplocheilus panchax HamiltonBuchanan.
India.
Aplocheilus macrostigma Boulenger.
Haplochilus macrostigma Boulenger Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist. 8 VIII 1911 p. 26S.
Lucola River Luculla River and Luali River Portuguese Congo.
Nos.
38632 to 38641 A. N. S. P. Paratypes of H. macrostigma Boulenger.
Luna Luali River West Africa.
Dr. J. W. Ansorge.
Purchased.
Aplocheilus camerouensis Boulenger.
Gaboon.
Aplocheilus sexfasciatus Gill.
Epiplatys sexfasciatus Gill Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1862 p. 130.
Gaboon.
Nos.
7129 to 7141 A. N. S. P. types of E. sexfasciatus Gill.
'Gaboon West Africa.
P. B. Duchaillu.
Also Luali River at Lundo in Chiloango.
Aplocheilus senegalensis Steindachner.
Africa.
Aplocheilus spilauchen A. Dumeril.
Chiloango Town Portuguese Congo.
Adinia multifasciata Girard.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1859 p. 118.
Galveston St. Joseph Island and Indianola Texas.
Nos.
7291 and 7292 A. N. S. P. cotypes.
Indianola Texas.
Smithsonian Institution.
Ttivulus micropus Steindachner.
Ecuador and Pebas Peru.
Xucania venusta Girard.
Grand Plains Bayou U. S. F.
Com.
 Mississippi Juniper Creek on southwest side of Lake George Dr. H. A. Pilsbry and C. W. Johnson Florida.
Lucania parva Baird.
Besides a large series of local specimens from New Jersey Delaware .and Virginia are seven from the firstnamed State at Anglesea fW. J.
Fox and P. Laurent on October 3 1897 not previously listed.
Girardinichthys innominatus Bleeker.
Act Soc.
Ind.
Neerl.
Prodr.
Ich.
Arch nd.
 I860 pp.
Isl 184 on Jirard's description without a name.
Proc.
Acad.
N Phila IS'
 p. US.
City of Mexico.
No.
7605 A. N. S. P. cotype.
City of Mexico.
Collection Major W. Rich.
Smithsonian Institution.
Also seven examples from Lake Xochimilco in 1885 E. D. Cope.
ORESTIIN.E.
Orestias cuvieri Valenciennes.Tinta Peru and Lake Titicaca.
Orestias pentlandii Valenciennes.
Lake Titicaca.
Orestias bairdii Cope.
Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1875 p. 185.
Lake Titicaca.
No.
21554 A. N. S. P. type.
Lake Titicaca Bolivia.
Prof. James Orton.
1873.
E. D. Cope.
This species has been merged with the preceding by Carman though it appears to differ in the larger pectoral reaching half way to the vent besides the much larger predorsal scales.
Orestias agassizii Valenciennes.
O. ortonii Cope 1. c p. 186.
Lake Titicaca.
O. frontosus Cope 1. c. Lake Titicaca.
No.
21557 A. N. S. P. type of 0. ortonii Cope.
Nos.
21555 and 21556 A. N. S. P. cotypes of 0. frontosus Cope.
Also several other examples from Peru and Lake Titicaca.
Orestias cypho sp.
nov.
Fig.
3.
Head 2f depth 2f D. i 13 A. i 13 P. I 18 scales 35 in median lateral series to caudal base and 5 more on latter 14 scales transversely between dorsal and anal origins about 23
predorsal calcs head width nearly equals its length head depth at occiput If lower jaw 3 fifth branched dorsal ray 2f fifth branched anal ray 2 least depth of caudal peduncle 2 caudal If pectoral 1  snout 5 in head measured from upper jaw tip eye 5 maxillary 3 interorbital 3.
Body very robust especially anteriorly compressed behind atesl depth about opposite middle of pectoral.
Predorsal with vated rather stout and moderately convex median keel beginning at occiput.
Caudal peduncle well compressed length about  its least depth.
ffead very wide robust large opercular regions swollen out 29 428 June that depth of head at hind preopercle edge f its greatest width.
Also prominent ridge on each side of head above opercles.
Upper profile slightly convex at first or to occiput then concave to predorsal ridge.
Lower profile steeply convex.
Snout wide depressed or but slightly convex length about  its width.
Eye small high front edge near first fourth in head.
Mouth vertical commissure extending slightly below lower eye edge.
Upper jaw greatly protractile or for space slightly greater than eyediameter.
Maxillary vertical extending back about half way to front of eye.
Lips fleshy.
Lower jaw vertical convex in profile shallow rami not elevated inside mouth.
Teeth small simple inconspicuous or concealed more or less in fleshy lips disposed as narrow short band mostly in front of jaws.
Tongue thick fleshy depressed free Fig.
3.
 Orestias cypho Fowler.
around edges.
Nostrils 2 little slits close together above and opposite front edge of eye.
Interorbital wide and slightly convex.
Hind ridge of preopercle slightly inclined back.
Very slight median concave depression on top of head before predorsal ridge.
Gillopening extends forward opposite middle of eye.
Gillrakers about 10 short stumps rudimentary.
Gillfilaments slightly longer than eye.
Isthmus narrow gillmembranes forming broad fold across.
Branchiostegals 5.
Scales cycloid largest on predorsal becoming smaller on hind part of body caudal base and lower side of trunk.
Prepectoral region scaly.
Scales on upper surface of head predorsal and shoulders finely granular other scales finely roughened with concentric stria.
Cheeks with 4 rows of scales none below preorbital.
Scales down median line of predorsal not especially enlarged.
Bases of dorsal and anal naked also breast and median line of belly.
No lateral line.
Dorsal inserted slightly nearer caudal base than gillopening depressed fin not quite reaching caudal base.
Anal origin opposite base of first branched dorsal ray depressed fin reaching ' to caudal base.
Caudal moderately convex behind.
Pectoral broad rounded.
If to anal.
Vent close before anal.
Color in alcohol largely uniform brownish with olive tinge under surface paler or whitish.
Fins all brownish uniform.
Iris brownish.
Length 153 mm.
Type No.
21920 A. N. S. P. Taken from a Permo snake from La Paz Bolivia.
187677.
Prof. J. Orton.
From E. D. Cope.
Only the above example known.
It is closely related if not identical with 0. neveni Pellegrin 6 but that species differs according to its description in the following respects Head 2 depth 3 D. 15 A.
17 P. 21 scales 32 conic teeth somewhat numerous dorsal inserted midway between gillopening and caudal base pectoral 2 in head.
It agrees however in having the scales uniform and continuous each side of the median predorsal row a character by which both species differ from 0. albus Valenciennes.
The latter has a naked lengthwise area each side.
Cypho hunchback with reference to the predorsal keel.
CYPRINODONTIN.E.
Cyprinodon variegatus Lac6pede.
C. gibbosus Baird and Girard Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1853 p. 390.
Indianola Texas.
No.
7221 A. N. S. P. Cotype of C. gibbosus Baird and Girard.
Indianola Texas.
Coll.
J. H. Clark.
Smithsonian Institution 684.
Besides the numerous local specimens also examined and recorded the collection contains others as follows Connecticut Noank North Carolina Fort Macon Florida Miami southwestern region and Carrabelle Alabama Mississippi Baldwin Lodge.
Cyprinodon variegatus riverendi Poey.
Boca Chica and Marquesas Keys Florida.
Cyprinodon bovinus Baird and Girard.
C. eximius Girard Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1859 p. 158.
Chihuahua River Mexico.
No.
7223 A. N. S. P. Cotype of C. eximius Girard.
Chihuahua River Mexico.
Coll.
Potts.
Smithsonian Institution No.
3 501.
' Hull.
Soc.
Z. France 1904 p. 9.5.
Lake Titicaca.
430 June Also several from Lago de Guzman Chihuahua Mexico Dr. P. P. Calvert.
Cyprinodon bovinus rubrofluviatilis subsp.
nov.
Fig.
4.
Head 3 depth 2 D. i 9 A. i 10 P. i 15 V. i 6 scales 27 in median lateral series to caudal base and 4 more on latter 14 scales transversely between dorsal and anal origins about 25 predorsal scales head width 1 in its length head depth at occiput l lower jaw 3 third branched dorsal ray  fourth branched anal ray If least depth of caudal peduncle If caudal If pectoral If ventral 2 snout 3 in head measured from upper jaw tip eye 3 maxillary 3 interorbital space 2f.
Body well compressed deepest at dorsal origin predorsal with Fig.
4.
 Cyprinodon bovinus rubrofluviatilis Fowler.
median trenchant keel and well arched before dorsal fin.
Caudal peduncle compressed its least depth li in its length.
Head compressed moderately upper profile more inclined than lower and lower sides not especially converging below.
Snout short wide and length about  its width.
Eye moderate high centre about first  in head.
Jaws greatly protractile upper at least distensible space equal to snout length.
Maxillary nearly vertical largely concealed.
Lips moderate.
Teeth uniserial compressed each tricuspid and expanded terminally. Inner upper and lower buccal folds moderately wide.
Tongue fleshy small depressed little free around edges.
Lower jaw slightly protruding in front oblique to somewhat vertical shallow and rami not elevated inside mouth.
Nostrils close above upper front of eye  .
small simple.
Interorbital slightly convex.
Preorbital about f area  Hind preopercle edge little free and nearly vertical entire.
Gillopening adnate above to gillopening close above oase of G pectoral ray and extends forward opposite hind pupil edge Gillmembranes widely connected across rather narrow isthmus.
Rakers about 26 short slender points about  length of gillfilaments and latter equal eye.
Branchiostegals 4.
Scales rather narrowly imbricated largest on top of head and opercles smallest on breast and caudal base.
Enlarged humeral scale longer than eye.
Scales in 2 rows on cheek.
Lateral line obscure and incomplete formed as short arch of few pores parallel with contour of back far as dorsal origin a single pore on each scale.
Dorsal inserted midway between centre of eye and caudal base median rays longest and depressed fin extends  to caudal base.
Anal inserted about opposite base of fifth branched dorsal ray fin extending f to caudal base when depressed.
Caudal with hind edge slightly convex.
Pectoral long reaches back well beyond ventral origin latter little before dorsal and fin reaching vent which close before anal.
Color of male in alcohol uniform brownish on back and upper surface of head.
Sides and lower surface whitish.
Fins all pale brownish and except ventrals densely punctate darker as seen under a lens.
Iris pale brownish.
Length 53 mm.
Type Xo.
20266 A. N. S. P. Brazos River between Seymour and Authon Texas.
Collection of W. S. Black.
E. D. Cope.
Also large series Nos.
20267 to 20324.
A. N. S. P.. paratypes same data.
They show Head 3 to 3 depth 2f to 3 D. usually i 9 rarely I 8 A. I 9 or I 10 scales 25 to 29 in median lateral series to caudal base and 3 or 4 more on latter 12 to 14 scales transversely between dorsal and anal origins snout 3 to 4 in head measured from upper jaw tip eye 2 to 3 maxillary 2 to 3 interorbital 2 to 2 length 33 to 45 mm.
Most of this series females and differing from the male in having  six or seven vertical wide crossbars of dark brownish on trunk.
These all more or less variable.
Very pale brownish vertical streak at base of caudal.
Outer hind portion of caudal with vertical submarginal dusky streak to median rays though hind edge of fin narrowly pale.
Often dorsal and anal ratherdark though former mostly uniform.
Young examples colored like females variable.
This interesting form is closely related to Cyprinodon bovinus apparently differing in the absence of a distinct black paleedged ocellus on upper hind portion of dorsal.
Also an example from the staked plains between the Brazos River and Tulip Red River Texas.
1892.
E. D. Cope.
Two from the Red River basin south of Clarenden Texas.
E. D. Cope.
Named for the Red River of the most northern inland eastern region at which a member of the genus Cyprinodon has been found.
Cyprinodon macularius Baird and Girard.
Pror.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1853 p. 389.
Rio San Pedro Arizona.
Cyprinodon californiensis Girard Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1859 p. 158.
San Diego County California.
No.
7219 A. N. S. P. cotype of C. macularius Baird and Girard.
Rio San Pedro Arizona.
J. H. Clark.
Smithsonian Institution No.
992.
No.
7220 A. N. S. P. cotype of C. californiensis Girard.
San Diego County California.
Smithsonian Institution No.
311.
Also an example from Salt River in the Gila Basin at Tempe Dr. H. A. Pilsbry Arizona.
Cyprinodon elegans Baird and Girard.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1853 p. 389.
Camanche Spring Texas.
No.
7222 A. N. S. P. cotype of C. elegans Baird and Girard Camanche Spring Texas.
J. H. Clark.
Smithsonian Institution No.
686.
Cyprinodon mydrus Goode and Bean.
Large series from the Florida Keys which I collected in 1904.
Lebias fasciatUS Valenciennes.
Mediterranean Bonaparte No.
313.
Dr. T. B. Wilson.
GOODEIN.E.
Goodea atripinnis Jordan.
Lake Patscuaro Mexico Mexican expedition 1890.
Characodon variatus T. H. Bean.
Rio Verde at Rascon San Luis Potosi Mexico.
PCECILIIN.
Gambusia affinis Baird and Girard.
Heterandria affinis Baird and Girard Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1854 p. 390.
Rio Medina and Rio Salado Texas.
G. holbrooki Girard Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1859 p. 61.
Palatka Florida.
j.
gracilis Girard I.e. p. 121.
Matamoras Mexico.
Haplochilus melanops Cope Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. XI 1870 p. 457.
Neuse River North Carolina.
Zygonectes brachypterus Cope Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XX 1880 p. 34.
Trinity River Fort Worth Texas.
Nos.
6974 and 6975 A. N. S. P. cotypcs of Heterandria affinis Baird and Girard.
J. H. Clark.
Smithsonian Institution No.
66.
Nos.
6976 and 6977 A. N. S. P. cotypes of G. holbrooki Girard.
Palatka Florida.
Smithsonian Institution No.
77.
No.
6973 A. N. S. P. cotype of G. gracilis Girard.
Matamoras Mexico.
Smithsonian Institution No.
3506.
Nos.
7143 to 7159 A. N. S. P. cotypes of Haplochilus melanops Cope.
Neuse River North Carolina.
E. D. Cope.
No.
20446 A. N. S. P. type of Z. brachypterus Cope.
Trinity River Fort Worth Texas.
E. D. Cope.
Besides a large series of local material from New Jersey to Virginia are specimens from Big Cypress in Lee County Baynard Florida Devil's River Pilsbry Texas Lake Superior at Pequaming in Brayon County M. Hebard Michigan.
This species is very abundant in southern New Jersey Delaware Maryland and Virginia coastwise.
Although Dr. Regan separates Heterandria holbrookii Girard and H. patruelis Baird and Girard as distinct species I feel convinced they are not separable.
The amount of variation even in New Jersey examples is sufficient to include the limitations he gives as well as permit still greater latitude.
Many aquarium specimens are marked with large black blotches others are pale and immaculate.
Gambusia punctata Poey.
Mem.
Hist.
Nat.
Cuba I 1855 p. 384.
Cuba.
No.
6978 A. N. S. P. probably cotype
Cuba.
Prof. F. Poey.
Smithsonian Institution No.
655.
Also examples from Santiago de Cuba and Bahia Honda Cuba.
Gambusia mcnieli sp.
nov.
Fig.
.5.
Head 3 depth 3 D. i 8 A. n 8 P. n 11 V. i 5 scales about 26 squamation injured in median lateral series to caudal base and 2 more on latter about 7 scales squamation injured between dorsal and anal origins 20
scales squamation injured before dorsal head width If in its length head depth at occiput lj third branched dorsal ray If third branched anal ray If least depth of caudal peduncle If caudal 1 pectoral If ventral 2f snout 2f in head measured from upper jaw tip eye 2f  maxillary 3 interorbital 21 i oBody well compressed deepest at ventral origin lower front profile little more convex than upper and edges all rounded.
Caudal peduncle strongly compressed about long as deep.
434 June Head small depressed above constricted sides approximated below and lower profile little more inclined.
Snout wide depressed length about f its width.
Eye large high about midway in head length.
Mouth broad commissure about half way to eye slightly inclined.
Jaws produced upper protractile nearly equal to snout length.
Lower jaw with rami firm at symphysis.
Teeth in bands of moderate width in jaws all simple conic and outer row slightly enlarged and curved.
Maxillary greatly inclined largely slips below front edge of preorbital.
Tongue small depressed rather narrow free in front.
No teeth on roof of mouth.
Lips rather thin.
Nostrils close to upper front eye edge.
Interorbital broad flattened.
Preorbital large deeper than long and its length about f of eye.
Preopercle ridge vertical.
Fig.
5.
 Gambusia mcnieli Fowler.
Gillopening forward nearly opposite front rim of pupil.
Rakers about 14 very slender their length about  of filaments and latter about f of eye.
Isthmus narrow and trenchant.
Scales large narrowly imbricated smaller on caudal base.
Scales large on prepectoral region and a single row on cheek.
Opercles and top of head with rather large scales.
Obscure lateral line imperfect and as simple pore in middle of exposure of scale course median along side at least posteriorly squamation largely damaged anteriorly .
Dorsal origin just behind anal base or about last third between front edge of eye and caudal base and depressed fin extending about  to caudal base.
Anal inserted about midway between middle of eye and caudal base first branched ray longest and others regularly graduated down depressed fin extending about I to caudal ba Caudal with hind edge convexly rounded.
Pectoral long with wide base reaches back nearly opposite anal origin.
Ventral small inserted little nearer anal than pectoral and not quite reaching former.
Color in alcohol largely brownish paler below each rale on back with cluster of dark pigment dots at pockets.
Iris slaty with dark pigment dots.
Dorsal rays each with median brownish spot and another midway toward base.
Median caudal rays with three or four brownish spots forming irregular transverse bars especially evident when fin closes.
Outer portions of anal rays with few brownish pigment spots.
Except as noted all fins pale or transparent.
Length 35 mm.
Type No.
6818 A. N. S. P. Panama.
J.
A. McNiel.
Only the above example a female known.
It is close to the figure of G. nicaraguensis Giinther 7 except the latter shows the dorsal and caudal with more darker spots on the rays especially terminally.
The prepectoral scales smaller and a dark spot little smaller than the eye above post ventral region.
Possibly this figure may refer to Gambusia dovii Regan 8 as Giinther's G. nicaraguensis was based on several females 1 or 2 inches long presented by Captain Dow. 
Now G. dovii Regan differs in having the depth 3f and the head 3f eye 3 32 scales dorsal rays 7 and interorbital If.
It is based on a single female 33 mm.
long.
G. cascajalensis Meek and Hildebrand 9 differs in the head 3 T V to 3f depth same D. i 6 A. n 7 scales 26 smaller eye 2 to 3 and the coloration.
Three other species G. latipundata Meek 10 and Hildebrand G. cana Meek and Hildebrand 11 G. lirienensis Meek and Hildebrand 12 all have smaller head lesser depth fewer branched rays more scales smaller eye different coloration etc.
Named for J.
A. McNiel who collected fishes in Panama many years ago.
Gambusia nicaraguensis Giinther.
Orizaba Mexico.
 7 Tr.
Z. Sor.
London VI 1868 p. 182 PI.
82 fig.
3.
Lake Nicaragua.
8 Proc.
Z. Soc.
London 1913 p. 986.
Lake Nicaragua.
9 Field Mus.
Pub.
Kili Zool.
Ser.
X No.
8 I'M p. sii.
Rio Cascajal Atlantic slope of Panama.
10 L.c p. 87.
Arrijan Pacific slope of Panama.
11 L.c.
Rio Satiganti 'ana Pacific slope of Panama.
a L.c p. 88.
Rio Capet i Tuyra River basin Pacific slope of Panama.
Belonesox belizanus Kner.
Orizaba Mexico.
Pseudoxiphophorus bimaculatus Heckel.
Orizaba and Jalapa in Vera Cruz Dr. P. P. Calvert Mexico.
One example from Orizaba adult and with exceptionally produced hunch on the predorsal region.
Heterandria formosa Girard.
Tick Island in Spring Garden Creek St. John's River basin Dr. H. A. Pilsbry Florida.
Poeciliopsis occidentalis Baird and Girard.
Heterandria occidentalis Baird and Girard Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1853 p. 390.
Rio Santa Cruz Tucon Arizona.
No.
6972 A. N. S. P. cotype of H. occidentalis Baird and Girard.
Rio Santa Cruz Tucon Arizona.
Smithsonian Institution No.
3511.
Many examples also from the above locality September 1910 and others from the Salt River in the Gila basin Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
This species has recently been placed in Mollienisia by Dr. Regan but the comparison of my series shows it belongs to Poeciliopsis.
Poeciliopsis lutzi Meek.
Head 3f to 3 depth 3 to 4 D. i 7 A. in 7 scales 25 to 27 in median lateral series to caudal base and 2 or 3 more on latter S or 9 scales between dorsal and anal origins  snout 3 to 4 in head  eye2to3 maxillary 2f to 4 interorbital 2 to 2.
Body elongate fusiform compressed.
Head depressed above.
Snout truncate as viewed above length about f its width.
Eye close to upper profile centre at first third in head length.
Mouth wide upper jaw greatly protractile.
Maxillary nearly vertical.
One row of slender bent spoonlike flexible teeth in each jaw.
Lower jaw truncate scarcely projects.
Interorbital flat.
Rakers about 14 slender weak points  of filaments.
Scales mostly uniform single row on cheek.
Dorsal inserted at last third in space between snout tip and caudal base.
Anal inserted little nearer pectoral origin than caudal base.
Caudal convex behind.
Pectoral reaches nearly f to anal ventral f to vent.
Color in alcohol pale brownish obscure darker blotch on most scales on back.
Sides of head and costal region silverywhite.
Row of eight to ten small brownish spots concurrent with vertebral axis of body along its sides each spot not greater than diameter of eye.
Conspicuous blackish blotch at anal origin sometimes absent or represented by dark basal line in smaller examples.
Fins pale some with several obscure or slightly darker transverse crossbars.
Iris silvery tinged brownish.
Length 40 to 58 nun.
Orizaba Mexico F. Sumichrast.
This species is closely related to P. pleuropilus Giinther and appears to differ only in the coloration in which the lateral dark spots are fewer in number.
The present species was originally described 13 with a narrow dark streak on under side of caudal peduncle ' a character not indicated on the figure 14 which is evidently a female.
Meek also describes Heterandria pleurospilus as identical with Giinther'Girardinus pleurospilus 1 ' but Regan claims evidently as they arc said to have sides with 8 to 11 black spots .... each about as large as eye  that they are not Gunther's species 16 but H. lutzi Meek.
Xone of these writers mention the conspicuous black blotch so frequent in adult females at the front basal portion of the anal fin and well represented in Gunther's figure of G. pleurospilus.
1 ' 7 Leptorhaphis infans vWoolman.
Orizaba.
Mexico F. Sumichrast.
Phalloceros caudimaculatus Hensel.
Rio Grande do Sul Brazil.
Also several aquarium examples recently imported to Philadelphia remarkable for their coloration.
Two are females and one a male.
They are largely very pale brownish and below more whitish.
Each scale on back with slight or obscure narrow brownish edge.
Sides of trunk and head with silvery reflections.
Slightly darker brownish streak down middle of back.
Fins all whitish marked irregularly with jetblack blotches.
On middle of side just below middle of depressed dorsal vertical elliptical brownish blotch obscure about equal to eyediameter.
Body and head also marked in striking contrast with irregular or variable blackish blotches.
Iris grayish.
In no two individuals or even on each side of the same individual are these colorpatterns alike.
They are extremely prominent and render the fish very attractive in the aquarium.
Though this may be due in large measure to domestication certain wild examples also show similar modifications as I have found Gambusia affinis and Mollienisia latipinna from Florida equally as contrasted as in the case of the 13 Field Mus.
Pub.
65 Zool.
Ser. 1902 p. 106.
Oaxaca Cuicatlan and Venta Salada Mexico.
14 L.c 93 Zool.
Ser. 1904 p. 149 fig.
47.
15 Cat.
F. Brit.
Mus. VI 1866 p. 355.
Lago de Duenas Guatemala.
16 Biol.
An.
Centr.
Pise 19068 p. 99.
17 Tr.
Z. Soc.
London VI 1868 p. 486 PI.
87 fig.
1. present species.
Possibly these concentrated dark blotches may be of parasitic origin though a casual examination with the microscope discloses nothing but crowded jetblack chromatophores.
Glaridiohthys uninotatus Poey.
Bahia Honda Cuba.
Girardinus metallicus Poey.
Mem.
Hist.
Nat.
Cuba I 1855 pp.
387 391 PI.
3 figs.
811.
Cuba.
No.
6971 A. N. S. P. cotype.
Cuba.
Smithsonian Institution No.
252.
Also another from Cuba without definite locality W. T. Innes.
Platypoecilus couchianus Girard.
Monterey Mexico.
Platypoecilus maculatus Giinther.
Orizaba F. Sumichrast Mexico W. T. limes.
Xiphophorus helleri Heckel.
Orizaba F. Sumichrast Jalapa Dr. P. P. Calvert Mexico R. E. Dorsey and F. L. Tappan.
Poecilia Vivipara Schneider.
Surinam Dr. C. Hering and Hucares Porto Rico.
I have also examined a large series from Guanica obtained by Mr. C. F. Silvester in 1915.
Lebistes reticulatus Peters.
Trinidad and Brazil.
Mollienisia latipinna Le Sueur.
South Carolina Dr. J. E. Holbrook  Boca Chica Key Hernando County and Bayport E. D. Cope Blue Creek in Lake County Dr. H. A. Pilsbry and Tick Island Dr. H. A. Pilsbry Florida.
A small example from the last locality is irregularly blotched over head trunk and fins with blackish like some examples of Gambusia affinis.
Mollienisia sphenops Valenciennes.
Venezuela
Dr. J. F. Bransford Panama J.
A. McNiel Wounta Haulover in Nicaragua Rev.
Fluck Orizaba F. Sumichrast and Rio Verde at Rascon Mexico.
Limia vittata Guichenot.
L. cubemis Poey Mem.
Hist.
Nat.
Cuba I 1855 p. 388 PI.
31 figs.
1213.
Cuba.
No.
6814 A. N. S. P. cotype of L. cubensis Poey.
Smithsonian Institution No.
659.
Also another Cuban example from Poey.
Guaninar Cuba.
ANABLEI'IX 1 Anableps anableps Linne.
Surinam Dr. C. Hering and Para Brazil.
Trindad Dr. B.
Sharp .
Anableps microlepis M Ciller and Troschel.
Pedernales Venezuela.
Anableps dowei Gill.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1864 p. 4.
Lallnia San Salvador.
No.
6982 A. N. S. P. type.
Lallnia San Salvador.
Capt.
Dow.
AMBLYOPSIDE.
Amblyopsis spelaeus De Kay.
Many from Mammoth Cave Kentucky.
on some varieties of thais lapillus in the mount desert region a study of individual ecology.
by harold s. colton.
Introduction.
In this study an attempt is made to correlate some of the many color varieties of Thais Nucella Purpura lapillus with the conditions under which the animal lives.
The study is based on field work carried out in the neighborhood of Mount Desert Island Maine in the summer of 1915.
Over 12000 snails were collected from sixtyseven localities sorted and the variations tabulated.
These tables were then compared with the environment of the snail.
With respect to Thais there is a very general belief that color is correlated with the color of the environment.
Cooke 1895 cites a locality in Cornwall where striped forms are found on striped rocks.
Blaney 1904 reports yellow forms were found to predominate on the yellow granite rocks of Yellow Island a small island in Frenchmens Bay on the Maine coast.
On account of the great variation of Thais and the apparent predominance of one variety in a given locality a study of the variations might throw light on some of the ecological factors of the sea beach.
Life History of Thais.
Thais subgenus Nucella or Purpura lapillus is a carnivorous prosobranch mollusk.
It feeds almost exclusively in this region on the mussel Mytilus edulis and the barnacle Balanus balanoides.
The former it attacks by boring a hole in the shell about 1 mm.
in diameter devouring the soft parts by means of its long flexible proboscis.
The barnacle is eaten in much the same manner the hole being drilled through one of the scutes.
Not only do they sometimes attack the periwinkle Littorina littorea but will try to bore through the shell of one of their own kind.
Although many shells show scars there is no evidence however that many are destroyed in this way.
The descriptive ecologist has neglected the Atlantic coast north of Cape Cod.
King and Russell's classification for the coast of Scotland will not hold for this region.
Some day if some one else has not undertaken it the writer hopes to make a descriptive classification of the animal communities of the sea beach in the Mount Desert region.
Provisionally he recognizes the following classification of the Littoral Formation Drift Zone.
ILittorina rudis Zone  Mean High Water.
Solid Rock Association planus Zone uJbucus Zone.
Mytilus Zone.
Transition Zone Littoral Formation  Mean Low Water.
IRock Association.
'Rock Pool Association.
Boulder Association.
Shingle or Pebble Association.
Sand Beach Association.
Mud Flat Association.
The mean rise and fall of the tide is ten vertical feet.
Thais is found in the Solid Rock Boulder and Rock Pool Associations.
In the two former it is confined to the Balanus Fucus and Mytilus Zones and particularly to the Balanus and Mytilus Zones as there the food is found.
There Thais is associated with Littorina rudis L. pallia ta L. littorea Balanus balanoides and Mytilus edidis.
When the tide is high the cunner Tautogolabrus adspersus and the pollack Pollachius virens invade this formation to feed.
Thais is not found in the Shingle Sand or Mud Flat Associations.
Nor is it found alive in any association of the Bottom Formation unless we should classify the Rock Pool as a detached part of this formation.
It is not found in any stratum other than the upper surface of rocks.
It is found therefore neither on the weeds nor under the soil.
Its habitat is very closely associated with its food.
See diagram fig.
1 illustrating the food relations of Thais to its organic environment.
The eggs are laid in little urnshaped capsules in sheltered places.
They are more abundant in the Mytilus Zone in favored spots such as in cracks in the rocks or under masses of Fucus than in the Balanus Zone.
In each capsule about 400 eggs are laid.
As cannibalism is practised Beard 1899 Carpenter 1857 Glaser 1905.
Pelseneer 1904 Robert 1902 by the growing snail a capsule containing snails readv to hatch will hold but 814.
June irudis palliata liltorea.
V Young Gull Chemical compounds.
.
dissolved in sea water 'hyxorplanktor ooplankton 'Balanus ult Gulls Pollack and cunner Fig.
1.
 Diagram illustrating the principal relations of Thais to its organic environment in the Rock Association.
To be complete this diagram should show an entire cycle of the material.
Each one of the organisms listed above gives off liquids to the sea water that may be again used.
They also furnish solids either as waste products or by death which when acted on by bacteria will give more soluble matter as well as a residual solid that will help contribute to the sea bottom in other localities.
The dead animals will supply food for amphipods the amphipods food for fishes like the sculpin and so relations are established with other associations.
This diagram shows that the biota of the Rock Association is dependent alone on the palagic formation.
The relationships with other associations are destructive to it rather than constructive.
The young snail has enemies in the shape of fish so those which fail to take refuge in small cracks in the rocks are destroyed.
At this time the food consists of young mussels which grow abundantly in the joints in the rocks.
If one does not know where to look for the young snails none will be seen so far are they crowded into the cracks.
A few pollack that were caught at high water over a Thais habitat had their stomachs full of young Littorina palliata which they had eaten from the same locality in which Thais lives.
L. palliata cannot hide in the rock cracks as their food is on the Fucus stems.
If the fish could find young Thais there is no reason why they should not be eaten as well as Littorina.
Although the young snails are hatching throughout the greater part of the summer most of them hatch out in August and reach between 1015 mm.
in the first winter.
This is measured by large ridges on the shell which indicate periods of rest in the growth of the shell.
These rest periods are assumed to indicate the winter but are not proved to correspond to it.
1916.
1 13 The curves in fig.
2 show the rate of growth in three different environments.
These are but approximations.
Further study may show that the first year may be really the second.
The oldest snail found was estimated as being seven years old.
The great majority are about two or three years old.
Cooke 1895 estimates that each female snail lays two hundred egg capsules a year.
Each capsule contains about four hundred W M Greenings Id.
BAY 30 25 i r 
EXPOSED ' Lraiotrr y Id COAST 20 1 Sornesv die 5HL17T RED H .RB0fi 15 10 5 1 i 
j 1 A    i  YEAF IS Fig.
2. eggs.
Food seems to be in most places abundant.
The snails have been observed to be limited in number by the following factors  1 Cannibalism within the egg capsule only ten to twelve hatching out of 300400 eggs.
2 Limit to the number that can take refuge in cracks in rocks and yet get enough to eat.
3 Fish such as pollack will gobble up any stragglers.
4 Halfgrown snails ones too big for the pollack are used by herring gulls as food the empty shells being regurgitated.
  5 Very large specimens are carried by the gulls to a height and dropped on any nearby flat rock in the same way as the gulls treat both sea urchins Strongylocentrotus and welks Buccinum.
Only the largest Purpura will break and only the largest are collected for this purpose.
6 Certain ones seem to be parasitized by a sporocyst but this was not investigated.
7 Accidents such as a surf heavy enough to move the rocks on which the animals live may destroy others.
In such habitats few if any are found.
The maximum size of these rocks may in exposed places be boulders two to three feet in diameter while in very sheltered places Thais will be found on pebbles two inches in diameter.
The limit is obviously determined by wave action.
8 Ice probably destroys others as they are not found in places where shore ice can accumulate.
a In Maine they are not abundant in shallow coves that freeze up solid in the winter time.
b Their geographical distribution also seems to indicate that sand beaches are a barrier as Thais lapillus is not found west of Montauk Point.
On Long Island Sound the barrier has not been determined.
Both Balanus and Mytilus being found west of Stamford Conn. the most westerly recorded station for Thais and the shore is still rocky.
In the north shore ice seemed to form the barrier See map fig.
3.
Various adaptations are at once manifest on examining this animal 1 The strong shell so strong that a drop from a height will not always break it.
2 The strong foot which makes dislodgment from its substratum difficult.
3 Its habit of seeking shelter under rocks and fucus.
4 The method of egglaying with its protection of the young until they are able to care for themselves although if but two and a quarter per cent of these laid hatch those two and a quarter per cent are almost sure to hatch.
Method.
As each station was visited from 200 to 500 shells were collected when Thais was abundant.
In some places they literally covered every inch of the rock.
In other places they were so rare that a careful search of a quarter of a mile of beach would often disclose but two or three.
Each collection as made was placed in a bag made of mosquito netting.
While still alive the snails were sorted into the dozen or 1916.
n so groups of the principal varieties.
The number in each group was tabulated.
For future reference the bag of snails was preserved in a tub of formalin.
A study of the color varieties seems to show that there are a number of colors and patterns that may be combined together in any sort of way.
These are as follows 1 Pure white shells that show no trace of color.
2 Purple.
The color in this ease is diffuse through the shell but is darker within the aperture.
Fig.
3.
 Map of the North Atlantic Ocean showing the distribution of Thais Purpura or Xucclla lapillus.
After Cooke Proc.
Mai.
Soc.
London vol.
II p.
193.
The crosshatching shows the occurrence of T. lapillus.
The southern barrier to T. lapillus is no1 clear but the northern barrier is obviously the presence of ice on the shore 3 Chestnut.
This color may be pure quite often but it isusually combined with purple forming a chocolate or with yellow.
forming olive.
4 Yellow is a color which when uncombined with one of the others makes the shell very conspicuous on the rocks.
Owing to its relative rarity and to its being so conspicuous it often appears in shell collections in proportions that are misleading.
Only by collecting all the snails from a given locality can this be avoided.
5 Dilute.
Every one of the colors mentioned above may appear in a dilute in contrast to its intense form.
6 White lip of the apperture is quite common in some localities.
In fact purple is rarely found not associated with a trace of lighter color on the lip.
This white lip may be combined with all colors and dilutions.
7 Narrow stripes.
In many shells about ten narrow white stripes are found on any color background.
'These are sometimes associated with the ridges which appear on many shells.
8 Wide stripes of white usually two in number often appear.
The widest stripe equals two or three of the narrow ones and the smaller stripe is double the width of the narrow ones.
The widest stripe is always posterior to the narrower stripe.
9 Spot of purple on the columella.
This is rare at Mount Desert but very common at Rye Beach New Hampshire.
10 Imbricata.
A fluting of the ridges of the shell gives rise to the variety called by Lamarck imbricata.
Apparently each one of the ten characters recognized may be combined with any other.
If this is so there must be 1103 varieties.
Not that many varieties have been found.
This is due to the fact that one cannot distinguish certain combinations from one another.
As an example let us consider the case of the colors alone.
We have purple chestnut yellow and white.
There are eight possible combinations of these white purple chestnut yellow purplechestnut purpleyellow chestnutyellow and purplechestnutyellow.
These last four are shades of olive and chocolate and cannot be distinguished easily from one another.
If we combine these four color combinations into one group and omit the white lip and purple spot on the columella we will reduce the possible number of variations to be recognized from 1103 to 33.
Twentyeight of these thirtythree varieties have been recognized.
However there are five that are so rare that they were not discovered in a collection of six thousand shells when they were particularly sought after.
These were narrow stripe dilute yellow wide stripe narrow stripe yellow wide stripe narrow stripe dilute yellow narrow stripe dilute olive and wide stripe dilute olive.
The yellows which contribute to the olive color and the dilute are much rarer than any of the others so it is no wonder that they are the ones that would be lacking in combinations.
It is obviously impossible to attempt to correlate all the known varieties with environmental factors so the writer has for the sake of convenience reduced still further the number of groups.
The particular groups recognized are as follows 1 White that is pure white.
2 Light  pure white together with intense and dilute chestnut with white lip.
The outer layer of the shell of these is white.
3 Dark  chestnut and purple in all their combinations.
4 Yellow  pure yellow.
5 Striped both narrow and wide stripe in all their combinations and color.
6 Imbricated  in all the combinations of patterns and colorIn the tables that follow the number of snails found in each group is stated in per cent of all the snails in each collection from a given station.
The Relation of the Varieties to the Environment.
The base for this study was Greenings Island an island locat d between Northeast and Southwest Harbors in the mouth of Somes Sound.
It is triangular in shape with a perimeter of about two and a quarter miles.
The main mass of the island is composed of till which at one time formed the terminal moraine of the continental glacier before it retired from Somes Sound.
This till is protected from rapid wave erosion by outcrops of reddish granite at the east and west end of the island.
This granite is cut in several places by broad basalt dykes which run in a general north and south direction.
Under wave erosion the till between the outcrops of solid rocks has given material to form a boulderstrewn beach and in favorable places the finer products have given rise to pebble and sandy beaches.
On the west or more sheltered side of the island between the granite outcrops are a number of muddy coves.
On this small island we have all the principal Littoral associations present.
The distribution of these are found in fig.
4.
This figure is a diagram of the shore of Greenings Island with the vertical scale very much exaggerated.
It has been made as though the shore were cut at the northwestern point and folded out so that this northwestern point appears at each end of the diagram.
The character of the shore is indicated.
The island as a whole is protected from heavy surf by outlying islands but the eastern end is exposed to the ocean swell from both the south and cast and at times of stormisubject to quite a surf.
The northeast shore and south shore are relatively unprotected at the east end but become more protected toward the west.
On the diagram the per cent of pure white shells are placed in the locality in which the collection was made.
An inspection of this figure will show that the most unprotected portion has the lighest colored snails while the portion of the island 448 June 9 III 111 r 9 U. o LNIOfcJ o I Ic UJ O LNIOd   o u f tr o ti3oy oviglCOVVlD DC  .INIOd 7A'9 3  111 I J.NIOJ AN 0 o5oo7Q 
OfoOf i o '3 0O b ..    o UJ  I CO. O D o3 fen HI 2 C  4i 03  r i P o C  O C3 ..
  s fi if oo  t  c as J c i3 on S C 83    O 0 c o CO c3 O as S 03 C J5 E E o  g .
 . TO  in CO cj t3 o S O N h  as a cc    o      J2 ' e  83 S  03 C j i 03 o3 83 83 C3  8j  c  o  i .
83   O S3 cc BO '5 J c c c 2 8J  83  03 r r  i S Sb 03 no H  M  ..
n 45  4J 03 3   C XI o   o tn 1 83 03 alQ 83  C  d.22 03 3 03  2 O 5  ib oi  i  03 03 .Q bfi 2  03  rf g C   03 a S c ag h4 ho subject to the smoothest water has the darkest.
This difference is very striking and the intermediate stations show intermediate ratios.
This has led the writer to classify the shores according to the wa These are arbitrary divisions and of course every intergradation is found but in most cases there is very little hesitation how a given i ation should be described.
If a great uncertainty exists the station was placed in both classes.
Sea cliff or surf exposed to the open sea.
An ordinary row boat can practically never land with safety.
Bay exposed to a moderate surf during high winds.
Except at those times a small boat can easily land on the shore without danger of accident.
Harbor so smooth that a row boat can practically always make a landing.
In the tables which follow the stations nearest together are always compared.
Table I. CondiStation No.
of Locality.
tion.
No.
Individuals.
Lt. White.
Bakers Id Surf.
23 65 6.1 Bay.
24 167 20.7 6 Seal Harbor Surf.
54 176 2.8 Bay.
56 34 55.6 44 Cranberry Id Surf.
10 319 30 4.3  Surf.
11 195 59 9.7 Bay.
13 204 15 5.7  We can conclude that in general the snails on the most exposed situations are darker than those found in the bay.
Table II.
CondiStation Xo.
of  Locality.
tion.
No.
Individuals.
Lt. White.
G  ngsId  a j bo  3
lit S 1 2 1
BuckelId gSo iS Hi   Bear Id Bay.
43 277 24 12 Harbor.
44 6 10 H Oronold Bay.
19 55 11 7 Harbor.
18 184 50 2 Southwest Harbor.
Bay.
37 194 29 19 Harbor.
36 196 I I Harbor.
35 273 25 11 Harbor.
47 172 14 6J 450 June If we combine the conclusion from Table I with Table II we see that snails in the exposed positions tend to be dark as well as those in the sheltered places while those in the bay shore tend to be the lighter colored.
The following table includes the results of collections made at stations separated by no barrier near together but on a substratum of different colored rocks.
The numerous black basalt dykes that everywhere cut the red granite make a number of collections of this sort possible.
Only a very few of the possible ones have been studied.
Table III.
Locality.
Greenings Id. east end.
Condition.
Rod rocks 1000 ft to Sta.
2 No.
of Station.
25 No.
of Indiv.
316  Lt. 57  White.
34  Yellow.
6.3 Black rocks 20 ft. to Sta.
50.
2 516 44 21 Black rocks 500 ft. to Sta.
21.
50 160 37 22 Red rocks 21 164 47 32 .6 Greenings Id. southwest end.
Red rocks 200 ft. to Sta.
28.
31 333 f 10 1.5 2.1 Black rocks 50 ft. to Sta.
30.
28 247 14 6.7 1.2 Black rocks 30 289 2.9 .4 3.8 Suttons Id.
Red rocks 110 ft. to Sta.
8.
9 159 35 2.5 7.5 Red rocks 150 ft. to Sta.
7.
8 135 28 2.2 31.8 Black rocks.
7 123 19 18.7 In general more lightcolored snails are found on the red rocks than on the black rocks.
The association of yellow forms with the environment is inconclusive.
There does not seem to be any correlation from these few cases.
Thirtythree collections from red rocks average 4 yellow.
Fifteen collections from black rocks average 4.7 yellow.
In this region there are occasional outcrops of a banded rock a chlorite schist.
That there might be a correlation between striped forms and schist is a possibility that may be investigated.
The collections from the red granite given in the table are those made nearest to the chlorite schist.
This comparison was not in mind when the collections were made so the stations are often several miles apart.
Table IV.
Locality.
Substratum.
Striped Shells.
Blue Hill Hay Chlorite schisl l.l Red granite Western Way ......Chlorite schisl 27  Red granite 1 avrratic oi Is collect ions from this region 1 1.1 Western Way Chlorite schist 27 '  Nearest Granite Station Red granite 18.
' The distance apart of the stations introduces so many other factors that with such meagre data no conclusions can be drawn.
The writer expects that the results are really negative.
The relative proportions of the imbricated forms from different localities are as follows  In the upper bays the water is much warmer than near the ocean.
This warmth is indicated at Blue Hill by bathhouses being located along the beaches.
Xone of the resorts farther down the bays have any the water being too cold for bathing in the bay in those places.
The upper bays are relatively shallow and there are muddy spots found on the rocky beaches between the rocks.
Five stations in this region had imbricata ranging from 38 to 96.
In the middle bay region of Blue Hill Bay the water is deep and the rocky shores are clean.
Xo imbricata were found in the three stations in this region.
The western side of lower Blue Hill Bay is shallow with many islands and ledges.
Among these islands there are many mud flatand the same conditions are found on the upper bay.
Five stationhad imbricata ranging from 9 to 30.
Near the islands separating the lower bay from the ocean the water is in general deep and the rocky shores clean.
Five stations 05 imbricata.
On the outer islands the surf of necessity keeps the rocks free from sediment.
Two stations 1757.
In Somes Sound environmental conditions similar to those in Blue Hill Bay are found.
The rocks are muddy in the harbors near mud flats and clean where wave action is possible and the water ideep.
If we except two stations at the Southwest Harbor steamboat wharf where the ratio of imbricata was 19 and 19.2 respe ively the average of thirtyfive stations containing 7119 individuals 1 Of these eighteen collections four had over '. '
 striped one had '.
was only .47.
The largest number found was but 3 at any one station and that was on the rocks of a muddy harbor.
The station in Somes Harbor farthest away from the ocean had but .6 imbricata.
That there are other geographical factors is shown by the rarity of imbricata in the Somes Sound region.
Very few are found in exposed situations on the Cranberry Islands and on Seal Harbor Head situations exposed to the full effort of the surf.
Except for a colony at the Southwest Harbor steamboat wharf in the whole Somes Sound region they are indeed rare.
Out of 2765 shells collected on Greenings Island but three were imbricated and these three were found at one station on the muddy west side of the island.
However in general we can say that the imbricated forms are found in greatest abundance in exposed situations as Duck Island and Long Island and also in the most sheltered positions.
Most of the varieties found in the Atlantic are also found in the forms inhabiting the north Pacific Ocean.
Dall 2 reports that the lamellated forms of Thais in that region are found best developed in sheltered harbors.
The Atlantic lamellated forms we have seen may occur in sheltered as well as in exposed situations.
As Thais is found in both the Balanus and the Mytilus Zones is there any difference between collections made close together but in different zones
The an.swer to this question is summed up in the following table Table V compiled from collections made but a few feet apart but in different zones.
Table V. ImbriLocality.
Zone.
Sta.
Lt. Wt.
Yel.
St. cata.
Greenings Id. eastern point Balanus.
2 44.5 21.3 
Mytilus.
50 37.5 22.5 14.4 Steamboat wharf S. W. H Balanus.
37 29.5 19.
17.5 1.5 19.0 Mytilus.
47 14.5 6.4 4.1 37 19.2 Stanley House wharf S. W. H Balanus.
35 25.3 11 2.2 4.0 Mytilus.
34 21.4 4.8 5.3 1 There are more light forms in the white Balanus Zone than in the dark Mytilus Zone.
2 There are fewer yellow forms in the dark Mytilus Zone.
3 Striped forms not conclusive.
4 Imbricated forms not affected.
2 Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus.
t vol.
49 pp.
557572.
1916.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
153 Natural Selection.
Natural selection we can assume is most severe on Little Duck Island.
Tliis little island lying four miles out at.
sea is exposed to the surf on every side.
The herring gull one of the chief enemies of adult Thais has a rookery on the island and every summer thousands of birds roost there at night and have their nests.
Everywhere regurgitated Thais shells cover the rocks which tell a story of a struggle for existence.
In collecting on this island for two hours but four hundred and twentynine living snails were found.
These were discovered at the lower edge of the Mytilus Zone.
All had been picked off the rocks above by the gulls.
This collection is chiefly notable in containing a very large proportion of dark individuals only 1.1 per cent white were found.
Nineteen per cent were imbricated.
It can be said with justification that where the struggle for existence is greatest on the exposed islands and the muddy harbors selection tends to preserve the darkcolored and the lamellated forms.
Conclusions.
A study of the color varieties leads one to the conclusion that they are hereditary and that we are dealing with things that are probably unit characters.
Even the development of lamella as in imbricata are not modifications caused by induction that is caused by the direct action of the environment.
As there are great differences between the ratio of the color varieties present in different localities we assume that natural selection is acting.
In the bay environment conditions are at an optimum.
No mud film covers the Mytilus and Balanus forms crusts over the rocks an inch to an inch and a half thick.
Here Thais is most abundant.
Five hundred can be gathered in ten minutes or even less.
A handful can be gathered at one scoop.
In the surf environment the barnacles do not form such thick crusts.
On the harbor shore ice destroys the barnacles in the winter and a mud film covers the mussels.
So that the barnacles are usually small and far apart while the mussels are separated by mud from the rocks.
Sand and mud are barriers to Thais.
Although the surf environment and the harbor environment are the antithesis of one another yet they have many effects on Thais that are similar.
These effects are as follows 1 The curve of growth fig.
2 shows that those in the surf environment at a given age are smaller than those from the bayenvironment.
2 There is a tendency toward dark individuals.
3 There is a tendency toward lamellated forms.
These studies show that natural selection has some determining action on the color varieties present.
1 It has been shown that the color of the rocks whether dark or light has an effect.
2 It has been shown that the white barnaclecovered rocks contain more lightcolored ones than those on the mussel bed but a few feet away.
3 It has been pointed out that those living on rocks near mud flats are darker than on the more exposed points of the same islands.
The present study must leave the question of the relation of the yellow forms and the striped forms to the color of their substratum yet unsettled.
In general however there is a relation between the color and the environment.
This relation is caused by natural selection and not by the direct action of the environment.
List of Literature.
Beard J.
1S99.
Principles of Animal Development.
I.
The Whelks Egg.
Nat Sci. XIV pp.
131137.
Blaney D. 1904.
Proc.
Boston Soc.
Nat.
Hist. Vol.
XXXII No.
2.
Carpenter W. 1857.
On the Development of Purpura.
An Mag.
Nat Hist 2d Series Vol.
XX.
Cooke A. H. 1895.
Cambridge Natural History Vol.
Ill The Mollusks pp.
69 90.
Cooke A. H. 1915.
Proc.
Mai.
Soc.
London p. 193.
Glaser O.
C 1905.
Ueber den Kannibalismus bei Fasciolaria tulipa var.
distans Zeit f. wiss.
Zool. Bd.
LXXX p. 80.
Gould A. and Binney W. G. 1869.
Invertebrates of Massachusetts 2d Ed. Boston pp.
360362.
King L. A. L. and Russell E. S. 1909.
A Method for the Study of the Animal Ecology of the Shore.
Proc.
Rov.
Phvs.
Soc.
of Ed. Vol.
XVII pp.
225253.
Pelseneer P. 1904.
Le Mode de Nutrition des Embrvons de Purpura lapillus.
Cong.
Zool. VI pp.
343345.
Robert A.
1902.
Recherches sur le developpement des Troques.
Arch.
Zool.
Exp. 3 ser. X No.
3.
Shelford V. 1913.
Animal Communities in Temperate America.
Univ.
oi Chicago Press.
Sumner F. B. Osburn R C and Cole L. J.
1911.
A Biological Survey ol the Waters of Woods Hole and Vicinity.
Bull of the Bureau of Fisheries Vol.
XXXI.
Walter.
1910.
Variations in Urosalpinx.
Am.
Nat. Vol.
XLD  No.
o26 r October.
NEW GENERA AND SPECIES OF GASTROPODA FROM THE UPPER CRETACEOUS.
1 BY BRUCE WADE.
The extent of the Gastropod fauna discovered in the Upper Cretaceous of Tennessee and the remarkable state of preservation of the hitherto unknown generic types warrant the present preliminary account of some of the more interesting.
The locality is on Coon Creek in the northeastern part of McNairy County in westcentral Tennessee and a somewhat detailed account has been published recently in the Johns Hopkins Circular.
The horizon is in the lower part of the Ripley formation and hence somewhat older than the classic Owl Creek fauna of the Ripley of Tippah County Mississippi.
2 Family CANCELLARIIDE.
Genus MATAXA gen. now Etymology j.draa  cocoon.
Type Mataxa elegans sp.
nov.
Shell of medium size and thickness spire obtuse its altitude less than half the entire length of the shell  protoconch large and smoothly polished the earliest volutions for the most part submerged and increasing rapidly in size thricecoiled in the typespecies conch solid and slightly glazed paucispiral external sculpture subdued axial sculpture subdued or absent aperture broadly lenticular and produced anteriorly in a comparatively long recurved canal outer lip expanded and dentate internally parietal wall widely and heavily glazed columella marked by two strong oblique plaits situated far in and behind two or more marginal plaits.
This genus is proposed for a species represented at Coon Creek by perfectly preserved elegant shells and a species Narona eximia 1 Published by permission of Dr. A. II.
Purdue State Geologist of Tennessee.
2 The writer wishes to acknowledge his indebtedness to Prof. E. Y.
Berry and Dr. J.
A. Gardner of the Johns Hopkins University under whose guidance this work was done to Dr. W. H. Dall and Dr. T.  .
Stanton of the U. S. Geological Survey and especially to Dr. L. Y.
Stephenson of the latter organization who has been engaged for several years in the areal stratigraphic and faunal studies of the Cretaceous of the Embayment region.
described and figured by Stoliczka 3 in 1867 from South India and referred to the Cancellariidse.
It differs from Cancellaria in general by the development of a welldefined canal by its lack of sharp and conspicuous cancellate sculpture and further by its less acuminate spire.
It differs from Narona a subgenus of Cancellaria in having a longer canal a spire less acutely elevated an anterior columellar plait more elevated than the posterior instead of less so.
Probably Mataxa is nearer the rare recent subgenus Massyla than any other form in the genus Cancellaria but in this comparison too there are generic and time differences so great that it seems advisable to assign the Tennessee and South Indian forms to a new genus.
Mataxa differs from Massyla in possessing a thicker stouter and more solidly built shell in having a comparatively long recurved canal and further in nuclear characters.
The protoconch of Massyla is trochoid while in the nucleus of Mataxa the early volutions are for the most part submerged.
Mataxa elegans sp.
nov. PI.
XXIII figs.
1 2 3.
Description.
 Shell of medium size ovate in outline spire less than half the entire length of the shell whorls of conch three and a half in number protoconch large smooth and obtuse' thrice coiled the first and second volutions for the most part immersed and coiled in a single plane the final whorl of the protoconch moderately elevated increasing rapidly in size surface of conch slightly glazed and inconspicuously sculptured axials reduced to fine incrementals and one or two exaggerated resting stages spiral sculpture of low broad flattened bands eight in number upon the penultima of the type the two posterior the widest and separated from one another by a wide and rather deep sulcus body spirals very obscure increasingly so toward the aperture more than 30 in number interspaces wider than the spirals and very shallow excepting directly in front of the suture suture impressed aperture more than half the entire length of the shell lenticular in outline and produced anteriorly into a comparatively long canal outer lip marked internally by 10 or 12 regularly spaced Urate denticles columella reinforced with two rather strong oblique folds a little less than half way between the base of the body and the anterior extremity of the aperture and a less prominent marginal fold and occasionally a fourth feeble plication 3 Stoliczka F. Cretaceous Eauna of South India Geol.
Surv.
India p. 166.
PI.
XII 1867.
4 Adams H. and A. Genera of Recent Mollusca 1855 vol.
I p. 278. behind the margin anterior fasciole rather short moderately wide emarginate at the extremity.
Dimensions.
 Altitude 23.4 mm.
 maximum diameter 13 mm.
 spiral angle 57.
This form is well characterized by its somewhat buccinoid outline and rather low obtuse spire subdued spiral sculpture the slightly flaring outer lip and plicate inner lip.
This species is represented in the Coon Creek collection by two perfect specimens which are remarkable for shells as old as the Cretaceous on account of their state of preservation.
The individuals possess a certain freshness of appearance and shellcolor that remind one of recent gastropods lately recovered from the water.
Occurrence.
 Ripley Formation Dave Weeks Place on Cood Creek McNairy County Tennessee.
Family VOLUTIDE.
Geuns TECTAPLICA gen. nov. Etymology tecta hidden plica fold.
Type Tectaplica simplica sp.
nov.
Shell of medium size thick and strong rudely biconic in outline spire about one third the entire length of the shell apex acute protoconch broken away scar small whorls very much appressed sculpture dominantly axial  aperture lanceolate produced anteriorly into a slightly bent canal outer lip simple inner lip callous parietal wall glazed columella marked by three weak but welldefined folds terminating far within the margin of the aperture.
This genus is well characterized by a thick strong and simple shell which has a columella marked by feeble folds.
It is one of the most primitive of the Volutes and may be considered as ancestrally related to Volutilithes.
It differs from Volutilithes in having a less elongate spire which is flattish on the sides and not interrupted by pronounced shoulders.
Volutilithes is typically spinose and has an inner lip usually well excavated and marked by prominent folds which extend well out on the inner lip.
Tectaplica simplica sp.
nov. PL XXIII fig.
4.
Description.
 Shell of medium size biconic in outline spire acuminate less than one third the entire length of the shell whorlvery closely appressed.
six in number on conch axial slopes flattish protoconch broken away car small external sculpture dominantly axial consisting of ten prominent broadly rounded costae increasing toward the aperture crossed by very many faint spiral ridg summit of costse unmarked by lirse posterior fasciole indicated by the weakening of the axial sculpture sutures inconspicuous aperture lanceolate produced anteriorly into a long canal outer lip simple inner lip callous and parietal wall glazed callus concentrated just below the posterior commissure of the aperture columella marked by three welldefined but feeble folds terminating within the aperture posterior fasciole indicated by abrupt constriction of incrementals.
Dimensions.
 Altitude 35 mm.
 maximum diameter 13 mm.
 spiral angle 59 20'.
This very simple primitive Volute is represented in the present Coon Creek collection by a single individual.
The folds of this form terminate so far within the aperture that it is necessary to section the spire in order to observe the columellar plaits.
Occurrence.
 Ripley Formation Dave Weeks Place on Coon Creek McNairy County Tennessee Genus DRILLUTA gen. nov. Etymology A contraction of .the generic terms Drillia and Voluta.
Type DriUuta communis sp.
nov.
Shell strong and fusiform spire elevated whorls numerous increasing slowly in diameter protoconch very small and smooth sculpture dominantly axial the costse interrupted in front of the sutural line by a welldefined but rather narrow fasciole aperttire lenticular produced anteriorly into a long gently recurved canal outer lip broadly arcuate simple within inner lip calloused columella bearing one welldefined oblique fold frequently with one or two minor folds behind it all of which evanesce before reaching the aperture.
This genus includes a welldefined and widely distributed group of the Volutidse some of which are undescribed and some that have been described have been variously assigned to such genera as Drillia Voluta Fasciolaria and Fusus.
DriUuta may be readily separated from Drillia by the absence of a posterior siphonal notch and further by the presence of columellar plaits on the Volute.
The typical Voluta has a lower spire and numerous transverse folds.
Fasciolaria has a more inflated body whorl and is not characterized by a welldefined posterior fasciole as is the case with DriUuta.
Fusus on account of its smooth columella cannot be confused with DriUuta.
There are two welldefined groups among the Drillutce so it seems advisable to separate this group into two sections.
Section A.
New section.
Type Drilluta communis sp.
nov.
This section is characterized by shells of met limn size with well rounded axials and a variable number of columella plaits which terminate within the aperture.
The spiral sculpture is very fine on the spiral whorls and young individuals but welldefined on i anterior part of the body of adult individuals and lacking on the posterior part of the older whorls of such individuals.
This section is proposed to include besides the Coon Creek species the form Drillia 
distans Conrad 5 from Owl Creek a closely related species from Corsicana Texas and a poorly preserved specimen from Brightseat Maryland.
The descriptions and figures of Voluta lativittata Griepenkerl 3 and Voluta canalifera Favre G. Muller 7 indicate generic and sectional relations nearer to Section A of Drilluta than to any other forms that have been found in the literature.
Drilluta communis sp.
nov. PI.
XXIII figs.
.5 and 6.
Description.
 Shell of medium size and fusiform in outline spire elevated its altitude approximately onehalf the entire length of the shell  apical angle higher on the posterior part of the spire becoming slightly lower on the younger whorls protoconch very smooth and trochoid coiled about three times whorls of conch closely appressed and eight in number both axial and spiral sculpture developed the former dominant axial costse rounded and abruptly elevated 11 to 17 in number to the whorl 14 on the penultima of the type costae rlexuous uniform in strength from the posterior fasciole to the anterior suture and a little less than half way down to the base of the body on the ultima fasciole narrowed indistinctly marked on the early whorls defined in the later whorls by the abrupt disappearance of the axial costse spiral sculpture of fine crowded impressed lines on apical whorls becoming faint and almost disappearing on the medial part of older whorls but reappearing as coarse impressed lines on slope of body whorl becoming faint and disappearing on anterior fasciole suture impressed body whorl sloping down smoothly into a broad pillar aperture lanceolate produced anteriorly into a very feebly recurved canal inner lip callous outer lip simple columella marked by one welldefined fold and one or two weaker posterior 5 Conrad T. A. Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Philadelphia 2d ser. vol.
IV.
p. pi.
46 fig.
49 1860.
Griepenkerl O. 1889 Palaeonlologische Abhandl. Band IV.
Befl  p. 93 395 Taf.
viii fig.
1 1889.
7 Muller '. 1899 Abhandl.
d. h'di.
Preus.geol.
Landesanstalt neue Folge Hefl 25 p. 124 Taf.
xvi figs.
L3 I l. 31 folds all of which evanesce before reaching the aperture plications invisible in the aperture.
Dimensions.
 Altitude 62 mm.
 length of aperture 31 mm.
 maximum diameter 20 mm.
 spiral angle 40 on posterior whorls decreasing to 25 on anterior whorls.
This species is one of the most abundant and best preserved univalves at Coon Creek.
It shows a considerable range in size and external ornamentation.
Some of the young individuals exhibit a fine spiral sculpture over the entire length of the shell.
The number of columellar plaits is variable.
These terminate far within the body whorl distant from the margin of the aperture and in many individuals are almost entirely obscured although they are readily revealed by sectioning the spire.
A comparison of this form with two other members of the section of the genus one from Owl Creek the type locality of Drillia 
distans Conrad and the other from Corsicana Texas indicates that the Coon Creek species is intermediate between those cited.
Occurrence.
 Ripley Formation Dave Weeks Place on Coon Creek McNairy County Tennessee.
Section B.
New section.
Type Drilluta major sp.
nov.
This section is characterized by a large much elevated and elaborately sculptured shell.
The whorls are abruptly shouldered.
The posterior shoulder is marked by spinous regularly spaced varixlike projections.
It is proposed for a welldefined group of Drillutce which include besides the Coon Creek species a species from Owl Creek and another from Brightseat Maryland which has been questionably referred to Fasciolaria on account of the imperfect character of the material.
The description and figures of Voluta magnified Griepenkerl 9 and Voluta Volutilithes subsemiplicata d'Orbigny G. Mi'iller 10 present generic and sectional relations which suggest this section of Drilluta.
Drilluta major pnov. PI.
XXIII figs.
7 and 8.
Description.
 Shell thick and large fusoid in outline whorls closely appressed seven in number and increasing slowly in size apex 8 Gardner J.
A. Md.
Geol.
Surv. 1916 Cretaceous Upper p. 438 pi.
xiv fig.
11.
9 Griepenkerl O. 1889 Palaeontologische Abhandl. Berlin Band IV.
Heft 5 p. 94 396 Taf.
viii fig.
2.
10 Mliller G. 1899 Abhandl.
d. Kon.
Preus.
geol.
Landesanstalt neue Folge Heft 25 p. 123 Taf.
xvi figs.
101821. acute broken away but protoconch as indicated by the scar probably very small whorls of spire slightly flattened dorsoventrally constricted posteriorly ultima merging smoothly into a wide pillar external ornamentation quite coarse and elaborate axial sculpture of rounded quite strongly elevated costae waving backward along the shoulder 11 to 14 to the volution costae becoming shorter and less prominent on approaching the aperture on young whorls costae reach from posterior fasciole to anterior suture but become shorter anteriorly and occur only along the shoulder of the whorl posterior part of whorl constricted and marked by a narrow posterior fasciole set with closely spaced spinose varixlike processes most of these processes broken away in type spiral sculpture absent on first three apical whorls becoming more prominent anteriorly until conspicuous on body whorl more than thirty strongly elevated spirals on body whorl spirals more widely spaced on medial portion of body whorl  spirals along medial portion of body somewhat arcuate on type with most gentle slope anteriorly body w T horl sloping gently into a broad pillar aperture lenticular and produced anteriorly into a canal inner lip calloused parietal wall thinly washed fold in front of one or two less prominent folds all of which become obsolete before reaching the opening of the aperture.
Dimensions.
 Imperfect specimen Altitude 85 mm.
 maximum diameter 32 mm.
 spiral angle 30.
This magnificent species is represented in the present collection from Coon Creek by two individuals both of which while imperfect yet show the essential characters of the shell.
It is well characterized by the elaborate axial and spiral ornamentation the very acuminate spire and further by the spinose varixbearing posterior fasciole.
Occurrence.
 Ripley Formation Dave Weeks Place on Coon Creek McNairy County Tennessee.
Family FUSIDE.
Genus FUSUS Lamarck.
Subgenus A.NOMALOFUSUS subgen.
nov. Etymology avatpLaXos irregular fusus a gastropod.
Type Fusus Anomalofusus substriatus sp.
nov.
Shell of medium size and elongate fusiform in outline spire acuminate and of approximately the same length as the aperture protoconch naticoid and smooth coiled about three times axials most prominent ornamentation costae irregular in size and spacing spiral sculpture consisting of many fine elevated line of different sizes which override axials suture impressed aperture lenticular and produced anterior into a canal outer lip thickened and dentate within broadly notched between suture and medial part of outer margin of aperture inner lip thinly calloused columella smooth and slightly sinuous.
The nuclear characters the sharp cancellate sculpture and intermediately thickened outer lip which is broadly notched in front of the suture seem to assign this form to the rank of a subgenus under Fusus.
This form bears some resemblance to Phos in general outline but is much more slender.
Phos is characterized by a columella which is much more sharply twisted.
Anomalofusus has a longer canal than any of the Buccinidse and lacks the abruptly excavated columella plicate in front which is characteristic of Phos.
Besides nuclear characters Anomalofusus differs from Fusus in its shorter canal and further by its thickened and notched outer lip.
Fusus Anomalofusus substriatus sp.
nov. PI.
XXIII figs.
9 10 11.
Description.
 Shell of medium size and elongate fusiform in outline spire acuminate and of approximately the same length as the aperture whorls roundly shouldered three to five in number on conch protoconch naticoid and smooth coiled about three times external sculpture elaborate axials predominating costse well rounded and elevated irregular in size and spacing reaching from anterior to posterior suture on spiral whorls but evanescing on anterior part of body  spiral sculpture consisting of about 14 small primary elevated lirse and in each interspace there are from one to three very fine primary lirse primary lirse lacking on a narrow band just in front of suture both primary and secondary lirse override costse suture impressed aperture lenticular and produced anteriorly into a canal outer lip thickened and dentate within broadly notched between suture and medial part of outer margin of aperture inner lip calloused columella smooth and slightly sinuous.
Dimensions.
 Immature individual Altitude 17.5 mm.
 length of aperture 9.5 mm.
 maximum diameter 7.5 mm.
 spiral angle 35.
This elegantly sculptured gastropod is abundant at Coon Creek.
There is a wide range in the maturity of individuals some have only one whorl of the conch while the older ones have five whorls.
The protoconch is preserved and conspicuous on most specimens.
Occurrence.
 Ripley Formation Dave Weeks Place on Coon Creek McNairy County Tennessee.
Genua ORNOPSIS gen. i Etymology opvi bird oJ. form.
Type Orno'psis glenni sp.
now Shell fairly large and strong body whorl inflated spire varying in relative altitude protoconch very small smooth paucispiral and trochoid both axial and spiral sculpture well developed aperture pyriform abruptly constricted and sinistrally inclined outer lip marginally crenate parietal wall washed by a callus columella marked by a strong laterally compressed laminar plait situated a1 the entrance of the anterior canal.
This genus is characterized by a peculiar narrow flexed canal and a sharp laminar plait on the columella directly behind the entrance of the anterior canal.
In these respects it differs from the other Fusidae.
In general outline Ornopsis elevata greatly resembles the genus Latirus but differs from it in the character of the anterior canal.
Odontofusus of the Fasciolariidse has a more elevated spire a more feeble columella fold and a nearly straight anterior canal.
The close compact spire of Ornopsis resembles some of the Buccinidse but here again the apertural features are distinctly different.
Ornopsis glenni sp.
nov. PI.
XXIV fig.
1.
Description.
 Shell fairly large and strong elevation of spire less than length of aperture protoconch very small smooth paucispiral and trochoid volutions of conch six in number increasing in size from a very small apical whorl to an inflated body whorl externa
ornamentation welldefined axials elevated well rounded and short beginning at shoulder and quickly evancescing in front of the periphery of body becoming less prominent toward aperture and disappearing almost entirely in some individuals costae of varying size and spacing twelve on body of type spiral lines sharply impressed more than thirty on body whorl becoming fine and oblique on pillar shoulder broad feebly convex suture impressed body whorl abruptly constricted into a slender pillar aperture pyriform produced anteriorly into a narrow canal sinistrally inclined outer lip sharp and marginally crenate  parietal wall washed with a callus thickest at posterior extremity of aperture columella flattened at the entrance of the canal into a shelflike fold.
Dimensions.
 Altitude 48 mm.
 length of aperture and canal 33 mm.
 maximum diameter 24 mm.
 spiral angle 60.
This form is well characterized by its pointed apex much inflated body and further by the flattened shelflike fold.
It is one of the most abundant gastropods at Coon Creek being represented in the collection by many perfect specimens.
It is the type of the genus and is named in honor of Dr. L. C. Glenn Professor of Geology at Vanderbilt University.
Occurrence.
 Ripley Formation Dave Weeks Place on Coon Creek McNairy County Tennessee.
Ornopsis elevata sp nov. PI.
XXIV figs.
2 and 3.
Description.
 Shell of medium size rugose spire elevated its altitude approximately the same as the length of the aperture protoconch broken away external sculpture dominantly axial the costse elevated and rounded highest upon the shoulder becoming faint toward the anterior evanescent anteriorly and absent altogether upon the posterior fasciole about twelve on body whorl irregularly spaced toward aperture space between shoulder and posterior suture separated by slightly narrower concave intercostals spiral sculpture of rather low crowded lirae separated by deeply impressed lines about twenty on body whorl lirae equally as well marked on the summit of the axials as in intercostal spaces suture line impressed body whorl smoothly constricted anteriorly into a narrow pillar posterior part of aperture ovate but broken anteriorly by a rather long narrow anterior canal inner lip calloused columella flattened at the entrance of the canal into a flat shelflike fold.
Dimensions.
 Altitude 34.5 mm.
 maximum diameter 17.2 mm.
 spiral angle 44 51'.
This species differs from Ornopsis glenni in possessing a higher more acuminate spire and a less inflated body whorl.
Occurrence.
 Ripley Formation Dave Weeks Place on Coon Creek McNairy County Tennessee.
Family BUCCINIDiE.
Genus HYDROTRIBULUS gen. nov. Etymology udwp water t'3c burr.
Type Hydrotribulus nodosus sp.
nov.
Shell moderately large and solid top shaped in outline spire less than half the entire length of the shell protoconch scar small sculpture vigorous the axials undulatory the spirals more sharply defined aperture pyriform and produced anteriorly into a narrow recurved canal outer lip expanded and abruptly constricted at the base of the body dentate within parietal wall heavily glazed sometimes bearing a toothlike process directly in front of the posterior commissure inner lip excavated and calloused reflected anteriorly concealing entirely the umbilicus edge of pillar flattened at entrance of canal simulating a fold.
This genus is characterized by a fairly lowspiral angle vigorous rugose cancellate sculpture a much inflated body and further 1much excavated and reflected inner lip which concealan umbilicus.
Besides the Coon Creek species it is represented by an undescribed species from Owl Creek Mississippi and another from Brightseat Maryland and further by a species in the Senonian of AixlaChapelle.
Germany.
The German species was first described by Ntuller in 1851 and assigned to the genus Rapa.
Since then it has been variously assigned by other palaeontologists to such genera as Fusus Pynila Hemifusus Pyropsis and finally to Tudicla by Holzapfel 11 who discussed the species in 1888.
A study of the description and figures of the German form together with the Coon Creek species and specimens from the Maryland and Mississippi localities indicatethat these species belong to a welldefined group and it seems advisable to propose for their reception a new genus Hydrotribulus of the family Buccinidee.
In general aspect this genus resembles Pyrifusus but differs from it in having a shorter recurved anterior canal and a pillar which is flattened and recurved in a unique manner at the entrance of the canal.
Tudicla has a much flatter spire a more globose body and a much more abruptly constricted longer and straighter canal.
It differs from Strepsidura in characters of the anterior canal and aperture and further by its characteristic rugose cancellate sculpture.
Hydrotribulus nodosus sp.
nov. PI.
XXIV figs.
4 and 5.
Description.
 Shell fairly large and very heavy with a rugosely cancellate sculpture topshaped in outline spire rather low its altitude less than the length of the aperture sides converging at an angle of 70 degrees whorls of conch five in number and rapidly increasing in size to a much inflated body whorls of conch obliquely shouldered the peripheral angle of the spire falling in front of the medial horizontal sculpture vigorous both axial and spiral restricted almost entirely to the area in front of the periphery axials elevated and broadly rounded sixteen in number on the body whorl of the type subequal in size and regularly spaced spiral sculpture of broad elevated fillets most prominent on the body subnodose at the intersections of the axials which they override.
Holzapfel E. Palaeontographica Band XXXTV p. L06 Taf.
xi figs.
17. two in number on the whorls of the spire and four on the medial portion of the ultima separated by shallow channels of approximately the same width as the fillets shoulder sloping at an angle of about 45 very feebly convex sculpture with retractive undulations corresponding in number and proportion to the axials with an obscure secondary liration and revolving a little behind the periphery base of body and pillar threaded with flattened spirals which become increasingly narrow anteriorly suture quite deeply channeled undulated in harmony with the preceding volution body whorl constricted rather abruptly into a broad pillar aperture pyriform.
produced anteriorly into a narrow canal outer lip broadly expanded crenulated at the margin and feebly cordate within the cords restricted to the margin and corresponding in position with the interspiral areas inner lip broadly concave nonplicate parietal wall heavily glazed and bearing an obscure tooth directly in front of the posterior commissure edge of pillar flattened at the entrace of the canal simulating a fold canal sharply recurved moderately long and narrow with parallel proximate margins umbilicus closed by the reflected inner wall of the aperture but indicated by a depression between the callus and the anterior fasciole.
Dimensions.
 Altitude 44 mm.
 length of aperture and canal 28 mm.
 maximum diameter 32.4 mm.
 spiral angle 70.
This elegant species is represented in the Coon Creek collection by perfectly preserved specimens.
The species is characterized by the obliquely shouldered whorls the prominent subnodose intersections of the banded spirals and the undulatory axials further by the low spiral angle and outline of crosssection of body.
Occurrence.
 Ripley Formation Dave Weeks Place on Coon Creek McNairy County Tennessee.
Family EUOMPHALlDl.
Genus HIPPOCAMPOIDES gen. nov. Etymology i7tuy.ap.7o  seahorse eldo
y shape.
Type Hippocampoides serratus sp.
nov.
Shell rather small flattened or feeble apically widely and deeply umbilicate protoconch minute planarboid paucispiral whorls of conch relatively few increasing rapidly both in diameter and altitude toward the aperture external surface usually smooth peripheral margin acutely angulated often sharply serrate aperture holostomous umbilicus funicular the outer margin acute conspicuously produced anteriorly.
This flattened form is assigned to the familj Euomphalidae because of its flat spire its dee wide umbilicus the outer margin of which is produced conspicuously and further on account of the angular peripheral margin.
Hippocampoidcs resembles Discolx lix somewhal .
but differs from it in having a protoconch not inverted and further in not having a whorl with a quadrate crosssection.
It may be separated from Straparollus by the height of the spire and crosssection f body whorl.
Hippocampoides serratus i nov. PI.
XXIV.
figs.
11 i 13.
Description.
 Shell rather small flattened or very feebly convex apically concave laterally the altitude increasing toward the aperture profoundly umbilicate protoconch minute planarboid depressed below the plane of the initial whorl of the conch the one and onehalf component volutions rather loosely coiled and approximately uniform in diameter line of demarkation between conch and prococonch indicated by a slight but very abrupt increase in the diameter of the whorl conch thrice coiled the whorls increasing regularly and quite rapidly in diameter external surface smooth and probably polished in the original state peripheral keel acute sharply and on the final half turn profusely serrate the indentation nearest the aperture running almost half way to the suture line the deepest of the serrations coincident with pronounced resting stages so the last half turn seems to be made up of a series of overlapping triangular plates suture line rather deeply impressed aperture semielliptical in outline the aperture half again as great as that of the body whorl at its initiation but less than half that of the body whorl at its close peristome adnate along the body wall very feebly emarginate both at the peripheral and at the umbilical keels approximately straight between the notches umbilicus very wide profound persistent to the apex funicular the outer margin acute probably serrated area between the peripheral and umbilical keels quite symmetrically concave.
Dimensions.
 Altitude.
11 mm.
 length of aperture.
5 mm.
 maximum diameter.
19.2 mm.
This species is remarkable for the auriculate outline of the apical aspect the deep serrations of the periphery the rapid increase of the altitude of the shell toward the aperture the lateral concavity and the profound umbilicus approximately half as wide as the entire shell and margined by an acutely angulated keel.
The edge of the keel has been macerated but there is evidence that it was quite strongly serrate.
Occurrence.
 Ripley Formation Dave Weeks Place on Coon Creek McNairy County Tennessee.
Family TURBINIDSE.
Genus SCHIZOBASIS gen. nov. Etymology  to split  base.
Type Schizobasis depressa sp.
nov.
Shell of medium size thick porcellaneous depressed and globose very low and smoothly rounded protoconch lost in type species conch paucispiral the component whorls increasing regularly and rapidly in diameter sculpture coarse and dominantly spiral sutures obscure aperture circular interrupted posteriorly by a slight shallow siphonal notch and anteriorly by a slit which marks the entrance of the anterior canal outer lip not thickened simple within inner lip excavated heavily reinforced anterior canal rather short with the parallel proximate margins distorted so that it appears as a narrow slit cutting across the base of the shell directly at right angles with the axis callus almost filling the umbilicus umbilicus imperforate the umbilical region spread out in a trigonal area and flattened against base of the columella from which it is separated by a profound sulcus depressed umbilical keel marked by growth stages or often poorly defined varices.
This genus is characterized by depressed spire and by a peculiar anterior canal which is short and deep and at right angles to the axis of the shell and resembling a slit in the anterior part of the aperture.
It does not seem to be near anything heretofore described and it has been assigned to the family Turbinidse only after some hesitation.
The Turbinidse have a much depressed shell and sculptural and nuclear characters much like Schizobasis but none of that family possess the short welldefined canal which characterized this new genus.
The recent Turbo comutus which is common in the IndoPacific has a very shallow anterior canal.
The genus Sargana of the Thaisidse has a much depressed spire a shallow posterior notch and a narrow anterior canal inclosed in an umbilical keel which is varicose and altogether possesses points analogous to Schizobasis.
Sargana has an entirely different sculpture and a much produced anterior canal which are family characters probably great enough to bar Schizobasis from the Thaisidse.
Turbo differs from Schizobasis in being nacreous and in having no welldefined canal.
There is an undescribed species of Schizobasis that occurs at Eufaula Alabama.
Schizobasis depressa sp.
nov. PI.
XXIV tins g 9 LO.
Description.
Shell of medium size thick porcellanous depree and globose spire very low and smoothly rounded rising slightly alove the body whorl protoconch broken away in type species conch paucispiral the component whorls three and one half in number increasing regularly and rapidly in diameter outer wall of mie and onehalf whorls of the apex broken away from spire of type sculpture coarse and dominantly spiral seven low round spirals on body whorl evanescing rather suddenly on body near aperture of adult posterior spiral less rounded and very near posterior suture obscuring suture line interspiral spaces much narrower than spirals a deep spiral sulcus at base of body between anterior spiral and umbilical keel spiral sculpture consists of irregularly occurring unequal costse shown on top of spirals and absent in interspiral paces costse receding anteriorly parallel to outer margin of aperture aperture circular interrupted posteriorly by a slight shallow siphonal notch and anteriorly by a slit which marks the entrance of the anterior canal outer lip simple inner lip excavated heavily reinforced anterior canal rather short with parallel proximate margins distorted so that it appearas a narrow slit cutting across the base of the shell directly at right angles with the axis callus almost filling the umbilicus umbilical keel showing two poorly defined varices umbilical region spread out in a trigonal area and flattened against the base of the columella.
Dimensions.
 Elevation 18.4 mm.
 maximum diameter 23.3 mm.
 spiral angle 125 40'.
The type of this very interesting genus is represented in the Coon Creek collection by a single perfectly preserved specimen.
Occurrence.
 Ripley Formation Dave Weeks Place on Coon Creek McNairy County Tennessee.
Family DELPHINULIDiE.
Genu URCEOLABRUM gen. nov. Etymology urceus jug labrum lip.
Type Urceolabnun tuberculatum sp.
nov.
Shell small and porcellanous trochoid in outline with a conspicuous aperture apex acute protoconch broken away in type species but scar small sculpture cancellate often tubercular at the intersection of spirals and axial suture impressed aperture circular and much thickened around the rim umbilicus wide and deep.
This genus is proposed for a welldefined group of formwhich are characterized by a conspicuous circular reinforced aperture a profound umbilicus and an elevated cancellate spire.
Besides the Coon Creek species two others are known an undescribed species from Eufaula Alabama and a species described by Miiller in 1851 from Aachen beds of Vaals Germany and referred to the genus Scalaria.
The same species was referred to Liotia by Holzapfel in 1888.
12 This genus differs from typical Liotice which occur in the Coon Creek strata in having a more elevated spire a circular reinforced aperture and further by a profound umbilicus.
In general outline there is some resemblance to Delphinula but Delphinula has a nacreous interior and an aperture which is not reinforced or circular.
Urceolabrum tuberculatum p nov. PI.
XXIV figs.
3 and 7.
Description.
 Shell small solid porcellanous and ornately sculptured spire elevated and acute protoconch scar small whorls circular in crosssection and four in number external ornamentation elaborate axials dominant costae 14 in number on penult equally spaced and evanescing on base of the body  spirals forming 5 rows of tubercles at intersection with costae on body whorl interspiral space at base of body rather wide an isolated row of tubercles on anterior margin of the umbilicus suture impressed and crenate aperture circular peristome heavily reinforced and calloused resembling mouth of a jug rim of aperture half as wide as opening umbilicus profound and funicular.
Dimensions.
 Altitude 5 mm.
 width of aperture 1 mm.
 maximum diameter of body.
3.4 mm.
 apical angle 60.
This elegant little species is hard and well preserved being rather common in the Coon Creek sediments.
It may be separated from the Eufaula species by the fact that the Eufaula form has fine secondary lirse between the primary spirals and on the band at the base of the body whorl.
It differs from the German species of this genus 13 in having sharper axials and tubercles at intersection of costae and spirals the German form has radial lines on the reinforced aperture while aperture of the Tennessee form is smooth.
Occurrence.
 Ripley Formation Dave Weeks Place on Coon Creek McNairy County Tennessee.
12 Holzapfel E. 1888 Palaeoulographica.
Band XXXIY p. 170 Tai.
xviii figs.
37.
13 Holzapfel E. 1s.
Inc. cit.
PLATE XXIII.
WADE NEW CRETACEOUS GASTRCPCLA.
PLATE XXIV.
WADli NEW CRETACEOUS GASTROPODA.
Explanationof Plates XXIII and XXIV.
Plate XXIII. Fig.
1.
 Mataxa elegans gen. el sp.
nov. Rear view x 2.
Fig.
2.
 Same.
Apertural view.
X 2.
Fig.
3.
 Same.
Apical view.
X 10.
Fig.
4.
 Tectaplica simplica gen. el sp.
nov. Apertural view.
Nat.
Bize.
Fig.
5.
 Drillulii communis gen. el sp.
nov. Apertural view.
Nat.
size.
Fig.
6.
 Same.
Rear view.
Nat.
size.
Fig.
7.
 DrilhUa major gen. el sp.
nov. Rear view.
Nat.
size.
Fig.
8.
 Same.
Apertural view.
Nat.
size.
Fig.
9.
 Fusus substriatus sp.
nov. Apertural view.
X 2.
Fig.
10.
 Same.
Hear view.
XlJ.
Fig.
11.
 Same.
Apical view.
X 10.
Plate XXIV.
 Fig.
1.
 Ornopsis glenni now.
e1 sp.
nov. Apertural view.
Nat sizeFig.
2.
 Ornopsis elerata gen. et sp.
nov. Apertural view.
X 1.
Fig.
3.
 Same.
Rear view.
X 1.
Fig.
4.
 Hydrolribuliis nodosus gen. et sp.
nov. Apertural view.
Nat.
size.
Fig.
5.
 Same.
Rear view.
Nat.
size.
I ..
6.
 Urceolabrum tuberculatum gen. et sp.
nov. Apertural view.
X 0.
Fig.
7. Same.
Rear view.
X 0.
Fig.
8.
 Schizobasis depressa gen. et sp.
nov. Rear view.
Nat.
size.
Fig.
9.
 Same.
Apertural view.
Nat.
size.
Fig.
10.
 Same.
Basal view.
Nat.
size.
Fig.
11.
 Hippocampoides serratus gen. et sp.
nov. Apical view.
X 2.
Fig.
12.
Same.
Basal view.
X 2.
Fie.
13.
 Same.
Lateral view.
X 2.
A POSSIBLE PARTIAL EXPLANATION OF THE VISIBILITY AND BRILLIANCY OF COMETS.
BY DANIEL M. BARRINGER.
WITH AN ADDENDUM BY ELIHU THOMSON.
From a careful study of the socalled shaleball meteorites described in my previous papers on the Meteor Crater of Arizona I am impelled to make a suggestion that their peculiar and more or less uniform shape may give us a hint of at least a partial cause of the brilliancy of the head of comets and the gradually fading visibility of their tails.
It should not be forgotten that these socalled shaleball meteorites have never before been described and we would know little of their original shape were it not that the several hundred which have been found by us have been dug out of exceeding finely pulverized silicious dust so abundantly found with larger rock fragments on the rim of the crater.
This finely divided silicious dust is due to the pulverization of a portion of the 1000foot white or gray sandstone stratum during the passage through it of the meteoric mass which by its impact with the earth as is now proved made the crater described in my previous papers.
The great mass of this exceedingly finely pulverized silica socalled most of which is so fine that it will easily pass a 100mesh screen is practically impervious to water hence these shaleball meteorites in many cases have retained their original shapes.
As previously stated by me they have no sharp corners but are generally speaking either round oval or pear shaped and in fact closely resemble in shape ordinary river gravel.
In nearly all cases oxidation has penetrated from the outer surface inward for varying distances but in most cases not sufficiently far to make it impossible to know what the original shape of the iron mass was when it fell to the earth and was imbedded in the outpouring from the crater like flour from a barrel of the finely divided silica dust commingled with rock fragments.
In all of the many thousands of iron meteorites found around the crater only one aerolite or perhaps more accurately siderolite has been found.
This was found by me on June 24 1905.
Inasmuch as by far the greater part of this aerolite was stony in nature it had yielded hut very slightly to oxidation since it fell upon the earth.
It is interesting to note however that all of its edges were rounded as if they had been subjected to abrasive action but it.
was nt.
as perfectly rounded or oval in shape as the great majority of tiniron meteorites.
If it fell at the same time as the cluster which made the crater as I now think is probable possibly this was due to the fact that it.
had been gathered up by the ironheaded comet in its passage through space and had not been a member of the cluster for as long a time as its iron companions.
The abrasive action between these masses of meteoric material composing the comet's head even though it is less than any grinding action that we can conceive of owing to the fact that the mass travels through the ether of space has I would suggest something to do with the visibility of comets.
Inconceivably gentle abrasive action may be sufficient to wear off infinitesimal particles of matter considering the enormous periods of time available.
If so may it not be that the attrition between the masses of meteoric material for example masses of iron not only possibly causes a disturbance of the ether where the grinding or milling action takes place but literally fills the space in and around the head of the comet with exceedingly fine particles of cometary dust
May not these fine particles of matter possibly electrified also form the socalled tail as they are swept away from the main body of the comet travelling through space
The explanation of the tail pointing away from the sun is somewhat difficult on this theory but the difficulty disappears if we can conceive the particles to be so infinitesimally small and so wanting in weight as to be affected by the light waves of the sun and to be driven by them in a direction away from the sun.
There can be no doubt that all the socalled  shaleball'' iron meteorites so far discovered by us in the material forming with the upturned edges of the limestone and sandstone strata the rim of the Arizona crater show evidence of what seems to have been abrasive action.
The inference is unavoidable that they have been subjected during perhaps billions of years to such action inconceivably slight it is true but nevertheless sufficient to finally reduce them to the shapes in which we find them.
It is evident that the abrasion was not produced by their passage through our air.
May they not be in fact celestial cobblestones and may not the milling action when they rub against each other even very gently account in some way not perfectly understood for not only what we term the brilliant head of a comet but tor its tail as well
This is only a theory but the inference seems to be justified.
The rounded shape common to this kind of meteorites is a fact which must be explained and the only reasonable explanation is that it has been due to mutual abrasion.
The largest mass of meteoric iron of this description so far found by us weighed over 100 pounds.
I have no doubt however that many of them composing the cluster which formed the head of the very small comet which produced by its impact with the earth what we know as Meteor Crater were much larger.
Evidence that many others fell upon the earth around the crater is to be found in the fact that the plain round about is strewn with what is locally known as  ironshale certainly due to the decomposition of these shaleballs it being merely oxidized meteoric iron.
A great many thousand pieces of this ironshale have been found around the crater on all sides of it but most abundantly to the N.N.E. the direction from which the cluster is supposed by those of us who now recognize the true origin of the crater to have approached the earth.
This variety of meteoric iron as I have previously stated decomposes very much more rapidly than any other meteoric iron ever discovered owing to the fact that it contains appreciable quantities of chlorine.
That thousands of shaleballs were strewn about the crater a moment after the impact there can now be no reasonable doubt.
It is a remarkable fact however that no piece of the socalled ironshale has ever been found which is not slightly curved similarly to the ironshale found on the outside of the slowly decomposing shaleball meteorites which lie deeply imbedded in the silicious' dust forming a great portion of the rim of the crater.
Most of the latter have iron centres and the ironshale surrounding them are merely the layers of iron oxide still adhering to the central iron mass.
When we compare the two the pieces of ironshale found on the surrounding plain show conclusively by their shape that the socalled shaleball meteorites from which they were derived were originally more or less globular in shape.
Saturn's rings are now believed to be composed of meteorites but upon the theory which I have advanced there is possibly no milling or grinding action taking place between them such as may take place for some unknown reason in the head of a comet.
I may however easily be in error as to this.
If the lunar craters and the Arizona crater have had a common origin as now seems very probable there can be no doubt that our knowledge of cosmogony has been greatly advanced by the discovery of the origin of the Arizona crater and that there is much stronger reason now than ever before to believe in the general correctness of Chamberlin's and Moulton's theory of the building up of planetary systems.
It is calculated that some 2000000 meteorites reach our atmosphere every twentyfour hours and it is highly probable that in the early history of the earth it was abundantly bombarded by cometary bodies that are probably after all merely masses of meteoric material which have gotten together and in some way not known to us have assumed orbits of their own.
It would seem however that most of them as well as most of the meteoric material originally forming the nebula out of which our solar system has been built up have long since been gathered into the sun its planetary bodies or the moons revolving about them.
Our moon having been without an atmosphere for perhaps a great many millions if not billions of years showevidences of some of the more recent accretions to its mass outside of the more or less steady rain of cosmic dust.
Its numerous craters probably merely represent the gathering in of cometary bodies or clusters of meteorites for they are apparently exactly similar to our Arizona crater except that most of them are vastly larger.
If this theory of the building up of solar systems be correct is it not wonderful to reflect that when one holds in the hand one of these pieces of meteoric material he is probably holding something older than our sun our own earth or any of the planetary bodies which with their moons revolve about the sun
That is to say he is literally holding practically unchanged through countless eons of time a part of the nebula out of which our solar system was constructed and which nebula in turn probably represented the wreckage of a previously existing system.
Addendum by Elihu Thomson.
The following comments on the above paper were received by Mr. Barringer from Prof. Elihu Thomson I have your letter of June 14 enclosing a communication which you are thinking of sending to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
I think there is little question that the explanation put forward in your paper as to the rounded shape of the shaleball meteorites is the true one.
I have in fact often spoken of the inevitable readjustments that may take place in a small cluster revolving around the sun and the attrition between the parts as accounting for the steady production of very finely divided material 32 driven away from the nucleus by the pressure of light.
In fact I have talked of this very thing with the astronomers and they have not raised any objections to it.
I take it that what happens is about this  at least this is in accordance with my idea of what happens When the comet is far removed from the sun and consists as it probably almost always does of a nucleus of fairly heavy pieces surrounded by lighter masses they are on account of the cold of space at a very low temperature and what little gravitational effect is produced is just sufficient to prevent them being scattered.
They are free at the far distance from the sun from anything like tidal action.
The cluster might even be revolved without being distorted by disturbance of the parts.
Should they pass within range of the gravitational effect of Jupiter and have the path slightly disturbed thereby there would necessarily be by the slipping of the parts over each other an attrition or grinding action taking place and this would continue solong as the body was within the range of the disturbing planet.
The same would be true of the cometary clusters passing towards the sun and around it making a socalled perihelion passage except that there would be some little difference.
In this case the particles of fine material the result of the grinding and held in the cluster would now be free.
The manner of this freeing can easily be understood.
The face of the mass of the cluster on the side toward the sun would undergo a warming or heating process.
This would result in the evolution into the vacuous space of whatever vapors or gases however rare they might be originally occluded in the face of the masses of the cluster especially from the warmed surfaces.
This would amount to a flowing of gas or evolution of gas on the side toward the sun which would lift the dust particles away from the mass and the very fine particles would thus be free to be driven back by the light pressure to form a tail.
It is an old idea that during this process if the sun were highly electrified electrical actions would take place electrical readjustments to the increasing actions of the sun but I think it doubtful whether the tail is much or anything of an electrical nature for the reason that the vacuous space in which the tail moves is so high a vacuum that no conduction would be possible.
I am inclined to think that whatever actions of temperature or electrical actions occur would be practically within the nucleus or near it.
The spectroscope shows that as the comet approaches the sun gas is actually evolved and the spectra of cyanogen and carbon monoxide are common in comets and possibly also hydrocarbon spectra in some cases.
The luminosity of the tail which it must be borne in mind is extremely low according to any way of rating it is.
I think amply accounted for by the greal depth of iace in which the fine matter exists and the solar light of high intensity reaching this fine matter a pure case of diffusion from fine particles.
As to cosmic dust not reflecting sunlight as does fine cometary dust the following explanation it seems to me is ample.
We sec things by contrast.
Even if there was a slight luminosity in space it would imply form a background for the comet's tail which would be more luminous and more dense in dust.
The astronomers have long suspected a very thin veil of dust in the sky of dust under illumination The sky is not in fact absolutely black.
It is black by comparison.
Of course it cannot be expected that ordinary meteorites should ever be seen in the sunlight.
They are too small or too far apart.
Only when they reach a considerable size do they produce any impression as single spots of light.
Witness the asteroids or the little planet Eros which probably is miles in diameter and yet is difficult to detect.
My idea is that the continual readjustment of the position and relation of the parts within a small cluster or even within a large cluster forming a large comet will account for practically all that occurs in the head of the comet and in the tail.
This tail will always point away from the sun.
It will curve backwards for although the particles move in a straight line from the sun it will curve backwards owing to the progress of the nucleus around the sun.
The tail will continue to be formed so long as the disturbing actions occur and it will fade away as the comet gets so far from the sun as not to be distorted or disturbed.
If the comet is not otherwise lost this action will continue on from the action of the sun with a constant reduction of mass and the final diffusion of the material composing the comet.
Your statement in relation to the aerolite of a stony nature which you found is very interesting to me as I had not heard that you had found any such stony meteor.
It is quite easy however it seems to me to account for it as a survival of perhaps many others present in the cluster.
The stony meteorites will naturally be sifted out from the iron meteorites in the flight of a meteor through our atmosphere.
They would not only be crushed by air pressure on their relatively greater area per unit of mass but on account of their lower specific gravity they would not have the ability by momentum to force their way as far.
Their relatively low momentum and greater air resistance in proportion to their mass would make them early losers in the race while the air pressure encountered would usually smash them into small pieces.
I think it quite probable that the stony matter of the earth is merely an outer layer over an iron centre and in the smash up of any body due to partial collisions or actual collisions the stony matters must be dissipated as well as the iron masses to be gathered up again by the approach near to a large gravitating body like a planet or a sun.
Your expression of celestial cobblestones is very expressive and pertinent to the case of the shaleball masses and your observation that pieces of apparently brokenup shaleballs are curved indicates a similar origin for all of them.
The flight of a cluster of small and large meteoric masses more or less rounded through our air would naturally be a siftingout process as the smaller bodies would lag behind in the flight.
THE NERVOUS SYSTEM OF CREPIDULA ADUNCA AND ITS DEVELOPMENT.
BY HAROLD HEATH.
The genus Crepiduh in the vicinity of Monterey Bay California is abundantly represented by the members of two species C. adunca and C. nivea.
In each case the young are retained in capsules within the mantle cavity of the parent and are liberated when they have attained the form of the adult and are in possession of all the definitive organs with the exception of those belonging to the reproductive system.
It is accordingly readily possible to secure extensive series of embryos and to follow the course of development from the ovum to the adult.
The embryology of several species of this genus has been studied in great detail by Conklin '97 1 and as a result it is clearly established that they all pursue essentially the same developmental path until they reach the veliger stage or a corresponding point where a freeswimming larva is lacking.
Beyond this point nothing is known.
In connection with a comparative study of the nervous system of several families of mollusks I have examined adults of the two abovementioned species of Crepiduh.
with considerable care and have traced its development in C. adunca.
In view of the fact that Paludina vivipara as worked out by Erlanger '92 2 is the only other gastropod whose development in this respect is known the results possess an enhanced degree of interest.
The central nervous system of the adult C. adunca is located in the base of the neck in a spongy mass of connective tissue placed between the pedal musculature and the overlying mantle cavity.
It conforms to the highly centralized type characteristic of the monotocardia generally with cerebral pleural and pedal ganglia closely appressed.
In several instances especially in halfgrown individuals the line of demarcation between the cerebral and pleural ganglia is comparatively slight on the other hand the pedal ganglia are invariably sharply defined.
All are globular bodies of essentially the same size and as indicated previously are united by comparatively short commissures and connectives.
1 The Embryology of Crepidula .nun.
Morph. Vol.
13.
1897 2 Zur Entwickhm von Paludina vivipara Morph.
Jahrb. Vol.
17. l v Of the more peripheral portions of the nervous system the buccal ganglia are situated in the head region slightly attached to the dorsal face of the radular musculature.
From the commissure uniting them two delicate nerves are given off which course ventrally but rapidly become lost to view among the surrounding muscle bundles.
The connectives to the cerebral ganglia arise from the forward borders of each buccal ganglion extend laterally and anteriorly over the buccal musculature for a short distance whereupon they pass between some of the bundles of radular muscles to the ventral side of the head.
In this position at each side of the under surface of the radula they pursue a course posteriorly to the cerebral ganglia.
Immediately after reaching the ventral surface of the head they are united by a delicate commissure.
Each cerebral ganglion gives rise anteriorly to one or two nerves in addition to the buccal connective which innervate the head.
Where one nerve appears it soon divides into an outer and inner branch destined to supply the tentacle and lips respectively.
The relatively strong tentacle nerve gives off a short stout nerve to the eye and after dividing extends far towards the tip of the tentacle.
The inner or lip nerve passes by a fairly direct path to the dorsal side of the head and ultimately breaks up in the tissue about the mouth.
The pedal ganglia usually develop four pairs of nerves.
The most anterior springing from the forward border of the ganglion extends through the pedal musculature to the forward section of the foot where each branches repeatedly and becomes lost among the muscle fibres.
Two other pairs extend ventrally and likewise soon disappear in the compact pedal musculature.
In addition to these three pairs each pedal ganglion gives off from its anterodorsal surface another nerve destined to supply the base of the neck.
On the left side of the body the bundle is comparatively slender and soon becomes lost to view at the junction of the head and mantle.
On the right side the corresponding branch has the same size and apparent distribution in lately hatched individuals but at a later period it becomes greatly enlarged and supplies the penis which arises relatively late in life.
It may be added that the pedal ganglia are united by two commissures the usual heavy one and another much more delicate posterior to it.
The elements of the visceral loop comprise three clearly denned ganglia the subintestinal the supraintestinal and the visceral.
The first named is a globular body of approximately the same size as the overh iug right pleural ganglion to which it is attached by a short connective thus producing a dextral zygoneury while a somewhat larger connective passing ventral to the pharynx unites it with the left pleural ganglion.
The supraintestinal ganglion is a fusiform mass united by a short connective to the right pleural.
The visceral ganglion in contact with the ventral floor of the mantle cavity on the right side of the body is joined by connectives passing Fig.
1.
 Dorsal view'of the nervous system  Crepidula adunca.
The pedal nerves are represented by broken lines the right posterior pedal nerve is omitted p. penis t. testis.
dorsal to the oesophagus and to the right side of the stomach and the adjacent section of the intestine.
The visceral connective on the left develops a small nerve usually associated with a ganglionic enlargement which has been traced for a. short distance beneath the floor of the mantle cavity.
The visceral ganglion itself also gives rise to a branch which passes to the wall of the kidney where it disappears from view.
In this species a welldefined marginal mantle nerve or Mantelrandnerv is present with many of the essential features of what has been found by Willcox '98 3 to exist in Acmcea fragilis.
In the present instance it is loosely attached to the walls of the marginal mantle sinus and throughout its course develops numerous delicate branches which attach to the overlying epithelium or the deeperseated gland cells.
On the right side of the body this marginal nerve is united by two connectives with the pleural ganglion and judging from sections with the subintestinal ganglion as well.
Of these connectives the anterior is much the heavier and skirting the floor of the mantle cavity can be followed forward where it divides into a short lateral branch uniting with the marginal nerve coming up from the posterior threefourths of the body and a slightly more dorsal and relatively larger nerve coursing about the base of the marginal mantle thickening.
In other words the marginal mantle nerve of the posterior part of the body can be traced as far forward as the anterior level of the head in contracted specimens.
It actually may continue entirely around the body but anteriorly it becomes very delicate and finally disappears among the masses of gland cells in the free border of the mantle.
However the heavy connective from the right pleural ganglion attaches to it before its disappearance and on the other hand extends around the mantle edge in front where it meets the corresponding nerve from the left pleural ganglion thus completing the circular mantle nerve though as noted before this anterior section is at a slightly greater distance from the mantle border.
The smaller posterior connective appears to be more largely a product of the subintestinal ganglion and like the two smaller connectives of the left side it extends laterally and posteriorly through the pedal musculature to the mantle border.
These two smaller connectives of the left side as well as another of much larger caliber arise from the pleural ganglion.
The anterior one pursues a course similar to its counterpart on the right and is 3 Zur Anatomie von Acmsea fragilis Jenaische Zeitschr.f.
Naturw. Bd.
32 1898. inserted in practically the same fashion with the marginal mantle nerve.
The osphradial ganglion is a welldefined elongated body situated far forward on the left side of the mantle cavity.
The nerve leaving its posterior border pursues a parallel course with the anterior mantle ring connective and enters the supraintestinal ganglion.
Certain species of the genus Crepidula are reported.
4 to poe a sinistral zygoneury wherein the supraintestinal ganglion is united to the pleural of the same side.
I have found no evidence of its existence in C. arfunca.
Turning now to the development of the nervous system we find that shortly after the first appearance of the foot the ectodermal cells immediately in front of the lateral angles of the mouth opening commence to elongate and each area rapidly differentiates into a welldefined probably sensory ridge and the tentacle.
Associated with these external developments there is a migration of ectodermal cells from the region of the ridge and tentacle slight at first but rapidly increasing and finally ending if one can rely on sections at the time when pigment first makes its appearance in the eye.
These migrant cells form the cerebral ganglia more or less rounded at first and largely obscured by the heavily staining overlying ectoderm.
Synchronous with the development of the cerebral ganglia the pedal ganglia arise.
With the exception of a median ciliated slender wedgelike area the base facing anteriorly the cells of the foot likewise become elongated whereupon cells migrate inwards forming two large diffuse masses in contact posteriorly where the commissure subsequently arises.
The four ganglionic bodies thus existing at this time appear to be the product solely of migrating elements since sections give no indication of cell division after the cells have left the ectodermal layer.
The same is also true of all the other ganglia now to be considered.
In whole mounts and in sections the cells along the posterior border of each cerebral ganglion can be seen in the late stages of its development to assume an elongated form and to develop fibres which extend posteriorly.
In some instances the strands thus produced form two distinct bundles at the outset one of which passes into the pedal ganglion while the other at a slightly later stage joins with the pleural.
In other instances one bundle first 4 Lang's Lehrbuch p. 213.
484 Sept. appears and subsequently divides to form the cerebropedal and cerebropleural connectives.
During this time the cells of the anterior margin of each cerebral ganglion likewise elongate and rapidly form fibres which extend across the midline and thus form the cerebral commissure.
The buccal are the only ganglia which do not directly arise from cells migrating from the overlying ectoderm on the other hand Pig.
2.
 Half developed embryo of Crepidula adunca showing the central nervous system and the visceral loop c cerebral ganglion and eye i. intestine m. mantle cavity o. osphradial ganglion p. pleural ganglion pe. pedal ganglion and otocyst s. supraintestinal ganglion st. subintestinal ganglion v. visceral ganglion.
they give clear evidence of being products of the cerebral ganglia.
At about the same time that the cerebral commissure is forming cells can be seen extending toward the midline from the inner border of each cerebral ganglion.
These gradually form an accumulation on each side of the radular invagination and in some instances completely invest the radular sac.
In the stage represented by fig.
2 the ganglia are usually differentiated though the commissure and the connectives may continue to contain cells until a relatively late stage in the development of the embryo.
After the cerebral ganglia have developed yet before they havi become fashioned into their final form the pleural ganglia and the elements of the visceral loop put in their final appearance.
Each pleural ganglion is the product of cells migrating from the adjacent ectoderm and arises at the sides of the body immediately posterior and slightly dorsal to the cerebral ganglion.
In most instances it is a fairly sharply defined though sheetlike structure yet it may originate in the form of several distinct masses whose anastomosing fibres form a distinct plexus before they become fused into a single mass.
The ganglia of the visceral loop arise simultaneously.
The subintestinal occupies a position on the right side of the body at the intersection of the neck and visceral mass the supraintestinal lies approximately in the midline at the junction of the neck and visceral mass while the visceral ganglion is somewhat to the right of the midline and anterior to the terminal section of the intestine.
Even while these ganglia are in process of formation delicate fibrils from some of the component bipolar cells push out between the yolk granules and increasing in number ultimately form the connectives of the visceral loop.
The osphradial ganglion rapidly becomes imbedded in the margin of the mantle and as in the adult is united by a connective with the supraintestinal ganglion.
In many instances a delicate connective unites the suband supraintestinal ganglia no trace of it has been found to exist in adult specimens.
The rightsided zygoneurous condition the union of the pleural and the subintestinal ganglion characteristic of the adult appears to put in an appearance shortly before the embryo escapes from the parent.
At the time of hatching there are traces of a plexus extending about the margin of the mantle but it is very dim and indistinct.
When it becomes clearly defined throughout and capable of being traced it has all of the essential features of the marginal mantle nerve of the adult.
With the increased growth of the mantle and the development of an extensive mantle cavity beyond the stage represented in text fig.
2 the visceral mass between the mantle margin and the neck becomes completely covered.
Furthermore the absorption of the included yolk creates a more flattened condition of the embryo which ultimately brings the nervous system into the position characteristic of the adult.
new or littleknown craneflies from the united states and canada tipulidje ptychopteridje diptera.
part 3. by charles p. alexander.
Introduction.
In this paper the author has undertaken a review of the Nearctic species of the difficult Eriopterine genus Gonomyia and has supplied figures of the wings and hypopygia of the various species.
The remainder of the paper is in the nature of a continuation of the first two papers under this title.
1 In order to complete the data in some sections of the family especially the genus Geranomyia it has been deemed advisable to add a few extralimital species most of these being Antillean or Middle American forms whose northward range is still not well understood.

Description of New or Littleknown Species.
Family TIPULIDiE.
Subfamily LIMNOBIN.E.
Tribe Limnobini.
GERANOMYIA Haliday.
Geranomyia Haliday Entomologists Magazine vol.
1 p. 154 1833.
Geranomyia canadensis Westwood.
Plate XXV fig.
1.
Limnobiorhynchus canadensis Westwood Annales Societe Entomologique de France p. 683 1835.
A wideranging species in the central and eastern United States from New Brunswick and the Hudsons Bay region south to Georgia and Florida west to Michigan Illinois Kentucky Tennessee and Texas.
Studies by Knab 2 and others show this fly to feed on nectar of Composite flowers Eupatorium Solidago Aster Silphium Rudbeckia Verbesina Cacalia etc.
in the late afternoon and evening.
A male from Brownsville Texas in May C. H. T. Townsend.
1 Proceedings of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia October 1914 pp.
579606.
Proceedings of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia September 1915 pp.
458514.
2 The Feeding Habits of Geranomyia Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington vol.
12 pp.
6165 1910.
Geranomyia guatemalensis sp.
n.
Extralimital.
Related to canadensis West wood head gray with a narrow median line thorax yellowish brown with three indistinct stripes femora with a brownish subterminal annul us abdominal tergites ringed brown and yellowish.
Male.
 Length excluding the rostrum 6.5 mm.
 wing i.7 mm.
 rostrum 4 mm.
Female.
 Length as above 6.8 mm.
 wing 8 mm.
 rostrum 4.1 mm.
Rostrum elongate brown more darkened toward the apex.
Antennae rather short black the scape dark brown flagellar segments roundedoval.
Head gray with a delicate more or less distinct median line.
Thoracic dorsum yellowish brown the praescutum with three broad though rather indistinct brown stripes the middle stripe broad behind not attaining the suture scutal lobes brown median area of the scutum and the scutellum pale yellow post not um pale whitish gray narrowly blackened medially.
Pleura dull brownish yellow.
Halteres brownish yellow the knobs darker.
Legs with the coxa
brownish yellow trochanters yellow femora light brown with a broad subterminal brown annulus the extreme tip paler tibiae light brownish the tips narrowly dark brown tarsi dark brown.
Wings nearly hyaline stigma distinct oval dark browm.
Venation Be long extending to about twofifths the length of the sector Rs elongate almost straight.
Abdominal tergites dark brown narrowly margined caudally and laterally with dull yellow basal sternites dull yellowish more brown on the intermediate segments.
Male hypopygium with the penisguard very long and prominent.
Habitat.
 Guatemala.
Holotype cf Aguna Guatemala altitude 2000 feet Dr. G. Eisen.
Allotype 9  topotypic.
Type in the collection of the United States National Museum.
This species differs from the Nearctic G. canadensis in the clear gray head in the subterminal brown femoral ring not with a black tip as in canadensis the long penisguard etc.
Geranomyia knabiana sp.
n.
Extralimital.
Related to canadensis Westwood rostrum elongate black head dark brown thorax brownish yellow the praescutum with a broad median stripe femora with an indistinct brown ring before the tip wings with subcosta very long.
Female.
 Length excluding the rostrum about 4.2 mm.
 wing 5 mm.
 rostrum about 2.8 mm.
Rostrum elongate dark brownish black.
Antennae dark brown moderately elongated.
Head dark brown with a narrow median black line head constricted behind.
Mesonotal prsescutum brownish yellow brighter in front with a very broad median stripe that is pale anteriorly dark brown behind in the Aguna paratype the prsescutum is scarcely marked at all in the allotype the stripe is distinct for its entire length lateral stripes not clear scutum brownish yellow medially the lobes dark brown scutellum pale dirty yellow postnotum brown.
Pleura brownish yellow.
Halteres short dark brown the stem more yellowish.
Legs with the coxae and trochanters dull yellow femora yellowish brown with a very indistinct brownish subapical annulus tibiae dull yellow darkening into brown at the tip tarsi dark brown.
Wings hyaline the stigma oval brown veins dark brown.
Venation Sc very long extending to twothirds the length of the sector Sc 2 at the tip of Sci Rs moderately long a little over two times the basal deflection of R ii .
Abdominal tergites brown sternites yellow the basal segments a little darker.
Habitat.
 Central America.
Holotype 9  Canal Zone Panama A. H. Jennings.
Allotype cf  Aguna Guatemala altitude 2000 feet Dr. G. Eisen.
Paratypes 9  with the allotype 9  Antigua Guatemala September 1902 Dr. G. Eisen.
Type in the collection of the United States National Museum.
Similar to G. canadensis but smaller the femora without a black tip the praescutal pattern more distinct behind etc.
This interesting little species is dedicated to Frederick Knab custodian of theDiptera in the United States National Museum as an appreciation of his studies on the feeding habits of this genus of craneflies.
Geranomyia distincta Doane.
Plate XXV fig.
2.
Geranomyia distincta Doane Journal of the New York Entomological Society vol.
8 p. 186 1900.
This fly will probably be found to have a wide range throughout the central and eastern United States it being now known from Connecticut and New Jersey to Texas.
Geranomyia vanduzeei sp.
n. Related to distincta Doane rostrum moderate in length head pale gray thorax reddish brown without stripes wings clear without a distinct stigmal spot femora dark brown before the tip tibiae black at the tip.
Mule.
 Length excluding the rostrum about 6.5 mm.
 wing 6.6 mm.
 rostrum about 2.5 nun.
Female.
 Length as above about 5 mm.
 wing 6 mm.
 rostrum about 1.8 mm.
Rostrum moderate in length brownish yellow darker towards the tip.
Antemue with the first segment brownish yellow the remainder of the antenna
dark brownish black flagellar segments shortoval.
Head light gray more yellowish behind.
Thorax reddish brown without distinct stripes or markings of any kind the scutellum a little more yellow.
Pleura pale reddish brown with a very sparse grayish bloom.
Halteres short pale yellow the knobs a little darker.
Legs with the coxae reddish trochanters dull yellow femora dull yellow with a broad brownish annulus immediately before the tip tibiae brownish yellow the extreme tip black tarsi yellowish brown the apical segments darker.
Wings nearly hyaline stigma indistinct veins dark brown C Sc and Cu a little more yellowish.
Venation Sc long extending over onehalf the length of the radial sector.
Abdominal tergites dull yellow with a narrow poorly indicated brown sublateral line sternites yellowish on the terminal segments more reddish.
The female is quite similar to the male but smaller with a still shorter rostrum that is not so noticeably pallid basally abdominal tergites brown the last tergite more yellowish.
Habitat.
 Southeastern United States.
Holotype cf Braidentown Manatee County Florida March M. C. VanDuzee.
Allotype 9  with the type.
Paratopotypes 2 d 1 9 .
The type is in the collection of Mr. Van Duzee to whom the species is respectfully dedicated.
In its unmarked thorax this species runs closest to G. distincta which has a longer rostrum and lacks the dark markings on the femora and the black apices to the tibiae.
Geranomyia intermedia Walker.
Plate XXV fig.
3.
Limnobia intermedia Walker List Diptera British Museum vol.
1 p. 47 1848.
The following specimens are at hand A 9  Kingston Jamaica February 10 1903 M. Grabham a 9 T same locality and collector April 9 1903 a cf 9 Havana Cuba April 1900 J. R. Taylor.
The species may be looked for in the Miami section of Florida.
The groundcolor of the thorax is yellowish the stripes usually indistinct somewhat plumbeous the middle stripe narrowly divided.
The banded abdomen offers an easy recognition character.
Geranomyia di versa Osten Sacken.
Plate XXV fig.
4.
Geranomyia diversa Osten Sacken Proceedings of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia p. 207 1859.
Northeastern and central United States ranging from Maine to Virginia west to Arkansas.
At The Rocks wharf on the James River Virginia while a member of the second trip of the Ecphora  under Prof. Gilbert D. Harris of Cornell University in quest of Tertiary fossils I found this species in large numbers resting on the dripping waterspattered cliffs of the Yorktown upper Miocene formations.
On July 2 1915 they occurred in large numbers together with Dicranomyia badia Walker.
Many were found to be heavily infested with a species of Trombidium while others in large numbers were found beaten into the mud by being struck by the heavy particles of water dripping from above.
In the north Ithaca New York they occur in midsummer August on rich vegetation along streams.
The adult flies feed on various Composite flowers Solidago Erigeron and also on Daucus Umbellif erse .
A 9 specimen Little Rock Arkansas July 11 1904 H. S. Barber.
Geranomyia domingensis spn.
Extralimital.
Related to cinereinota Alexander rostrum short head black enclosing a silvery triangle prsescutum brownish gray with a broad blackish median line wings nearly hyaline stigma indistinct vein Sc moderate in length.
Female.
 Length excluding the rostrum about 5.2 mm.
 wing 5.5 mm.
 rostrum about 1.6 mm.
Rostrum very short black palpi biarticulate black.
Antennse with the first segment black segment two dark brown flagellum brownish black with a whitish pubescence first scapal segment elongated second segment subglobular flagellar segments oval.
Head velvetyblack enclosing a large silvery triangle with its point directed cephalad.
Mesontal prsescutum brownish gray with a broad blackish median line lateral stripes less distinct broad brownish scutum brown the lobes scarcely darker than the median area scutellum pallid postnotum plumbeous brown with a sparse grayish bloom.
Pleura reddish yellow with a light gray bloom.
Halteres yellow the kno brown.
Legs with the coxa 1 and trochanters dull yellow femora uniform light brown tibiae and tarsi dark brown.
Wings nearly hyaline stigma indistinct veins dark brown.
Venation Sc moderate in length extending to about onefourth the length of the.
sector R elongate somewhat arcuated at its origin crossvein r at the tip of Ri basal deflection of R ii more than two times the length of the rm crossvein cell 1st M elongated the cell being longer than vein Cui beyond it though shorter than vein M 2 beyond it basal deflection of Cuj just before the fork of .1.
Abdominal tergites dark brown the sternites rather light yellow.
Habitat.
 Santo Domingo.
Holotype 9  San Francisco Mountains Santo Domingo September 1905 Aug. Busck.
Type in the collection of the United States National Museum.
This species is closely related to G. cinereinota in its short rostrum conspicuous black thoracic stripe uniform femora etc.
 it is a smaller fly with the head black and silvery without the clear gray coloration of the praescutum the stigma indistinct and the flagellar segment s much shorter and more globular than in the corresponding sex of cinereinota.
Geranomyia tibialis Loew.
Plate XXV fig.
5.
Aporosa tibialis Loew Linnaea Entomologica vol.
5 p. 397 1851.
A wideranging species throughout the Antilles and southward over a large portion of South and Central America.
The following unrecorded stations are before me representing the Loew collections in the Museum of Comparative Zoology the American Museum and the United States National Museum Cuba part of the Loew collection in the M. C. Z. bearing the label rufescens in Osten Sacken's writing but certainly not that species because of the black and enlarged apices of the anterior tibia
 a o  Baracoa September 1901 Aug. Busck.
Santo Domingo several o 9 Sanchez June 712 1915 d San Francisco Mountains September 1905 Aug. Busck.
Porto Rico 9  Aguadilla January 1899.
Montserrat a 9 Plymouth F. Driver.
Canal Zone a 9 A. H. Jennings.
The species may be looked for in the Miami Dade County section of Florida.
33 Geranomyia lachrymalis Alexander.
Plate XXV fig.
6.
Geranomyia lachrymalis Alexander Transactions of the American Entomological Society vol.
42 pp.
9 10 1916.
The following additional distributional records Mexico Cordoba April 1 1908 Knab.
Guatemala Escuintla November 12 1902 Eisen.
Costa Rica Cache March 3 1910 Calvert.
Canal Zone Tabernilla Busck.
Geranomyia certhia sp.
n. Extralimital.
Rostrum elongate head dark gray prsescutum yellow with three dark brown stripes  legs with the femora and tibiae tipped with dark brown wings hyaline with a prominent oval stigma cord and outer end of cell 1st M 2 seamed with pale brown abdomen brown with two black longitudinal dorsal stripes.
Male.
 Length excluding the rostrum 6 mm.
 wing 7 mm.
 rostrum about 5 mm.
Female.
 Length as above 6.5 mm.
 wing 8.4 mm.
 rostrum about 5 mm.
Rostrum dark brownish black long and slender especially toward the tip.
Antennas short black.
Head gray brighter just behind the antennas vertex dark gray with an impressed black line that is narrowed behind occiput suffused with dull yellow.
Mesonotal prsescutum pale buffyellow with three broad dark brown stripes the median one double ending just before the suture lateral stripes shorter crossing the suture and suffusing the scutal lobes remainder of the scutum buff yellow scutellum buff yellow a little obscured on either side postnotum light plumbeous brown with a very delicate impressed median line.
Pleura yellow with a sparse pale gray bloom.
Halteres yellow the knobs darker brown.
Legs with the coxae and trochanters dull yellow femora brownish yellow the tips broadly dark brown tibiae light brown the tips narrowly dark brownish black tarsi brown.
Wings hyaline the stigma prominent oval dark brown cord and outer end of cell 1st M 2 narrowly seamed with pale brown apex of the wing a little darkened veins dark brown.
Venation Sc long ending about opposite midlength of the sector.
Abdominal tergites dark brown the segments paler yellowish laterally more blackish sublaterally forming two dorsal black lines down the abdomen sternites brownish yellow.
Habitat.
 Guatemala.
Holotype cf Antigua Guatemala September 1902 Dr. G. Eisen.
Allotype 9  with the type.
Paratopotypes 3 cf 9 .
Type in the collection of the United States Nal ional Museum.
This wellmarked species suggests 7. endcrlcuu Alexander annulate Enderlein in its large size and long rostrum but differs in the wingpattern the darker apices to the femora and tibiae and the two longitudinal black hands on the abdomen not annulated as in thai species.
Geranomyia virescens I.oew.
Aporosa uirescens Loew Linnaea Entomologica vol.
 p. 398 1851 .
The following records for this fly admitting it to the United States fauna Biscayne Bay Dade County Florida Mrs. Slosson.
Miami Dade County Florida Knab December 24 1914 feeding on the blossoms of Persea Lauracece.
Geranomyia rostrata Say.
Plate XXV fig.
7.
Limnobia rostrata Say Journal Academy Natural Sciences Philadelphia vol.
3 p. 22 1823.
This species ranges over the eastern United States and Canada from Maine and Canada to Florida west to Illinois and Louisiana.
What has been determined as this species ranges over the Antilles and the records for the Greater Antilles at least are probably correct.
Knab's records show this species to feed on various Composite flowers Eupatorium Solidago and Helianthus.
Geranomyia ibis sp.
n. Related to insignis Loew head gray with two black lines praescutum grayish with three narrow black lines pleura gray femora yellowish apically with a subterminal browm annulus wings nearly hyaline wdth a sparse darker pattern.
Female.
 Length excluding the rostrum 7 mm.
 wing 7.3 mm.
 rostrum 2.3 mm.
Rostrum rather short black.
Antennae black the flagellar segments shortoval.
Head gray with two linear parallel black marks extending from the vertex to the occiput.
Pronotum brownish gray shiny black on the dorsomedian line.
Mesonotal praescutum pale reddish gray with three very narrow black stripes the median stripe only a little broader than the lateral stripes narrowed caudally and not attaining the suture lateral stripes long slightly  mvergent and more browmish behind crossing the suture and occupying the proximal edge of the scuta
lobes scutum scutellum and postnotum reddish gray.
Pleura uniform gray.
Halteres short yellow the knobs brown.
Legs with the coxse brownish yellow trochanters yellow femora brown the basal and apical quarters yellowish a rather broad brown subterminal ring tibiae and tarsi dark brown.
Wings almost hyaline the costal area pale yellow stigma rounded pale brown a darker brown spot at the tip of Sc and at the origin of Rs a very indistinct seam along the cord.
Venation Plate XXV fig.
8  Sc rather long ending at about onethird the length of the sector.
Abdominal tergites brown the sternites more yellowish.
Habitat.
 Southcentral United States.
Holotype 9  Hot Springs Arkansas June 26 1904 H. S. Barber.
Type in the collection of the United States National Museum.
Differs from G. insignis Loew Plate XXV fig.
9 in the more grayish groundcolor of the praescutum with still narrower stripes the clear gray pleura and the paler wingpattern differs from plumbeipleura Alexander in the very narrow praescutal stripes these stripes not as wide as the interspaces the pale scutal lobes and the pale wingpattern from numenius Alexander it differs in the much shorter rostrum.
Geranomyia costaricensis sp.
n.
Extralimital.
Related to insignis Loew mesonotal praescutum with two approximated dorsal brown stripes pleura yellow with a large brown mark on the mesopleurites femora with the apex broadly yellow with a narrow subterminal ring wings subhy aline with four dark brown subcostal marks and paler seams to the veins.
Female.
 Length excluding the rostrum 8 mm.
 wing 7.8 mm.
 rostrum about 3.3 mm.
Rostrum moderately elongated dark brownish black.
Antennae with the first segment black with a sparse grayish bloom second segment brownish paler toward the tip flagellar segments black elongateoval.
Head brownish gray.
Mesonotal prsescutum clear light yellow with two broad reddish brown dorsal stripes one on either side of the very narrow middle line these stripes barely attaining the suture lateral margin of the sclerite brown widely separated from the median stripes scutum with the median area broadly yellowish white the lobes brown scutellum pale postnotum yellowish brown.
Pleura dull yellow a large brown blotch on the mesopleurites and a similar one on the lateral portions of the postnotum.
Halteres yellow the knobs brown.
Legs with the coxae and trochanters light yellow femora brownish yellow the apices broadly light yellow with a dark brown subterminal ring this ring about onehalf the extent of the pale tip tibia' yellowish brown tarsi brown.
Wings with a pale grayish suffusion with brown clouds and seams as follows larger ones at the stigma at t be t ip of Sc and origin of Rs midlength of the subcostal cell and at the base of this cell paler brown clouds at the tips of most of the veins the crossveins and deflections seamed with this same color.
Venation Sc long extending to about onethird the length of the sector basal deflection of R ii very long the crossvein rm correspondingly reduced.
Abdominal tergites dark brown the segments a little brighter at their bases sternites dull yellow.
Habitat.
 Costa Rica.
Holotype 9 Cartago Costa Rica September 17 1909 P. P. Calvert.
Type in the collection of the American Entomological Society.
This species differs from all the members of the insignis group insignis lineata numenius plumbeipleura ibis et al.
in the peculiar pattern of the prseseutum.
Geranomyia subinsignis sp.
n.
ExtraIimital.
Related to insignis Loew thorax grayish with three broad dark brown stripes femora with a broad subterminal brown annulus wings grayish with extensive brown markings.
Female.
 Length excluding the rostrum 5.70 mm.
 wing 0.4 mm.
 rostrum about 2.22.5 mm.
Rostrum moderately elongated black.
Antennae black.
Head black passing into dark gray on the vertex a narrow silvery median line extends from the front to the occiput.
Pronotum dull brownish yellow with a dark brown median line.
Mesonotal prseseutum light gray with three dark brown stripes nearly subequal in width and much broader than the pale interspaces middle stripe narrowed behind barely attaining the suture lateral stripevS narrowed in front broadened behind crossing the suture and suffusing the scutal lobes median area of the scutum and the scutellum pale dirty brown postnotuin brown.
Pleura brownish plumbeous.
Halteres yellow the knobs brown.
Legs with the coxee and trochanters pale yellow femora light brown passing into light yellow at the tip this pale area including a broad dark brown subterminal annulus in the Panaman paratype the brown annulus is very broad encroaching upon the yellow tip the pale area at the tip is about onehalf the extent of the brown annulus which in turn is a little longer than or subequal to the yellow area proximad to it.
Wings with a pale gray tinge the costal margin with three dark brown blotches the largest at the origin of Rs and the tip of Sc stigma rectangular a large blotch at the middle of Sc pale brown seams along the crossveins and deflections of veins tip of the wing a little darkened veins dark brown R between the brown markings bright yellow.
Venation Sc rather short extending to about onequarter the length of the sector Sc 2 at the tip of Sci basal deflection of R ib long restricting the rm crossvein.
Abdominal tergites dark brown the ninth segment more yellowish sternites yellowish brown the apical segments more yellowish.
Habitat.
 Central America.
Holotype 9  Aguna Guatemala altitude 2000 feet Dr. G. Eisen.
Paratopotype 9  paratype 9  Cucaracha Canal Zone November 17 1908 No.
14 C. H. Bath.
Type in the collection of the United States National Museum.
Related to insignis Loew but smaller the thorax grayish with the brown stripes broader the subterminal brown annulus on the femora much broader the wings grayish with the brown markings larger and darker it is a much smaller species than plumbeipleura wing and body over 8 mm.
 rostrum 3 mm.
with the mesonotal coloration more grayish the wings with the pattern not so dark but more extensive the interspaces of the costal region not so brightened etc.
Tribe Antochini.
This is one of the smaller of the cranefly tribes the species of the eastern United States and Canada being as follows  Antocha saxicola Osten Sacken.
Canadian and Transitional zones of the east ranging from Ontario and Quebec south to Georgia west to Winnipeg Michigan and Illinois.
In New York and New England it flies from May 13 to September 25.
Atarba picticornis Osten Sacken.
CanadianTransitional and Transitional zones of the eastern United States ranging from New York and Massachusetts south to Virginia and North Carolina west to Indiana and Tennessee.
In New York and New England it flies from June 19 to July 13 having an unusually short flightperiod.
In the south it flies later October 7 Tennessee and appears earlier May 29 Maryland.
Dicranoptycha germana Osten Sacken.
Plate XXV fig.
10.
Canadian lifezone of the northeastern United States ranging from New York Vermont and New Hampshire south in the mountains to North Carolina.
In New York and New England it flies from June 21 to August 8 being quite common in late June and throughout July on vegetation in cool wooded places usually along streams.
Dicranoptyoha nigripes Osten Sacken.
Known only from the typelocality Dalton Georgia.
Dicranoptycha sobrina Osten Sacken.
Plate XXV fig.
11.
Transitional and Austral lifezones wideranging throughout the northern portions of the United States from Ontario and New York south to North Carolina west to British Columbia California and New Mexico.
In the vicinity of Washington it flies from April 20 to August 31 while in the northeastern part of its range New York and Ontario it appears even later August 30 to September 20.
Dicranoptycha winnemana sp.
n. Plate XXV fig.
12.
Transitional lifezone ranging from Maryland to Georgia.
Elephantomyia westwoodi Osten Sacken.
Canadian and CanadianTransitional lifezones of northeastern United States and eastern Canada ranging from Ontario Quebec and Nova Scotia south to North Carolina west to Wisconsin.
In New York and New England it flies from June 5 to August 13 being common throughout late June and July.
Rhamphidia albitarsis Osten Sacken.
Tropical lifezone ranging from Santo Domingo through the Antilles to St. Vincent and British Guiana also in Central America.
It may possibly occur in the Miami section of Florida.
Rhamphidia flavipes Macquart.
Plate XXV fig.
13.
Wideranging throughout the eastern parts of North America from Ontario and Quebec south to Georgia and Florida west to Manitoba Wisconsin Missouri and Texas.
In New York and New England it flies from May 29 to August 29 in the southern parts of its range much earlier Florida March 14 Texas March 18.
Rhamphidia mainensis sp.
n. Plate XXV fig.
14.
CanadianTransitional lifezone of the northeastern United States ranging from Maine to Maryland west to Illinois.
Teucholabis carolinensis Alexander.
Lower Austral lifezone known only from the typelocality Georgetown South Carolina August 19 1915.
Teucholabis complexa Osten Sacken.
Plate XXV fig.
15.
Transitional and Austral lifezones of the eastern United States ranging from New York and Connecticut south to Georgia west to Illinois and Kentucky.
In the vicinity of Washington it flies from May 7 to July 25.
Teucholabis lucida Alexander.
Plate XXV fig.
16.
Known only from the typelocality District of Columbia August 22 1915.
Toxorrhina magna Osten Sacken.
Austral lifezones of the southeastern United States ranging from New Jersey south to Florida in New Jersey flying from July 19 to August 12 in the south its flightperiod being much more extensive Crescent City Florida April 21 Thalman Georgia April 28.
Bainbriclge Georgia September October.
Toxorrhina muliebris Osten Sacken.
CanadianTransitional lifezones of the northeastern United States ranging from New York and Maine south to Maryland west to Michigan.
In New York and New England it flies from June 21 to August 8 being common in places in late June and throughout July.
RHAMPHIDIA Meigen.
Rhamphidia Meigen Systematische Beschreibung vol.
6 p. 281 1830.
Rhamphidia mainensis sp.
n. Rostrum elongated head light gray with a large brown blotch between the eyes prsescutum light yellowish brown with three dark brown stripes wings unmarked except the pale stigma legs dark brown abdomen dark brown the basal sternites and the hypopygium yellowish.
Male.
 Length 67.5 mm.
 wing 5.87.7 mm.
Rostrum elongated black.
Antennae black the second segment a little paler apically.
Head light gray with a large brown blotch between the eyes.
Mesonotal prsescutum light yellowish brown with three dark brown stripes the middle one broadest double becoming indistinct before the suture lateral stripes shorter crossing the suture and suffusing the scutal lobes except behind median area of the scutum and the scutellum pale yellowish gray postnotum yellowish darker more brownish on the sides.
Pleura brownish with a goldenyellow pollen.
Halteres light brown the knobs dark brown.
Legs with the coxse and trochanters yellowish brown femora dark brown a little paler basally tibiae and tarsi dark brown.
Wings subhyaline the stigma indistinct brownish veins dark brown subcosta more yellowish.
Venation Plate XXV fig.
14 Rs moderate in length about one and onehalf the length of the deflection of R ib  cell 1st M t small to elongate basal deflection of Cu t variable in position before at or beyond the fork of M. Abdominal tergites dark brown the hypopygium brighl reddish yellow sternites two to five dull brownish yellow basally the caudal margins dark brown segments six to seven dark brown eight and nine dull yellow.
The Maryland paratype is strikingly smaller the smallest measurements given than the typical Maine material and has the stigma more distinct but is undoubtedly the same species.
Habitat.
 Northeastern United States.
Holotype c Orono Penobscot County Maine June 12 1913 Alexander .
Paratopotypes 4 cf's paratype cf Hyattsville Maryland September 1 1912 Malloch  Lake Forest Illinois July 8 1906 Needham .
Type in the collection of the author.
This species differs conspicuously from the only other eastern species of the genus R. flavipes Macquart Plate XXV fig.
13 in the elongate rostrum the uniformly dark legs the clear wings and the abdominal coloration.
It is much more closely related to R. longirostris Meigen western Palaearctic region which has the antennal flagellar segments more elongated with longer verticils the thorax differently patterned the wings broader with a higher cell 1st M 2  etc.
ATARBA  Isten Sacken.
Atarba Osten Sacken Monographs of the Diptera of North America pt.
4 p. 127 1869.
Atarba cincticornis p. n.
Extralimital.
Atarba varicornis Alexander in part Transactions of the American Entomological Society vol.
40. p. 232 1914.
Antennae of the male greatly elongated the flagellar segments bicolored the basal half of each segment black the apical half yellow.
the segments with long outstretched hairs cell 1st M 2 of the wings very small.
Male.
 Length 4.2 mm.
 wing 5 mm.
Rostrum and palpi reddish.
Antennae with the basal segmenl reddish second segment dark brown flagellar segments with the basal half to threefifths black the remainder of each segment light yellow fourth segment largely blackish flagellar segments with long outstretched hairs antenna
very elongated nearly as long as the body the individual segments of the flagellum being greatly elongated.
Head reddish yellow.
Mesonotum reddish yellow with an impressed median line on the praescutum.
Pleura reddish with a very sparse grayish bloom.
Halteres yellowish the knobs darker at their tips.
Legs with the coxae and trochanters dull yellow femora yellow narrowly and indistinctly brownish at the tips tibiae brownish yellow tarsi yellowish brown the tips of the segments brown the two terminal segments entirely brown.
Wings with a grayish yellow tinge stigma very indistinct grayish veins brown.
Venation Sc ending about opposite the origin of Rs Rs short a little longer than the basal deflection of R i5  cell 1st M 2 small.
Abdominal segments dull yellow brownish laterally a brownish black subterminal ring.
Habitat.
 British Guiana.
Holotype cf  Mallali Demerara River British Guiana March 25 1913 H. S. Parish.
Type in the collection of the author.
A. cincticornis is to be separated from the other species of the genus with bicolored antennae in that it is the basal half of the flagellar segments that is black instead of the apical half as in picticornis Osten Sacken varicornis Alexander.
DICRANOPTYCHA Osten Sacken.
Dicranoptycha Osten Sacken Proceedings of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia p. 217 1859.
Dicranoptycha winnemana sp.
n. Altogether pale brownish yellow wings pale yellow the costal margin fringed with long golden hairs radial sector about one and onehalf the length of cell 1st M 2 .
Male.
 Length 6.87.2 mm.
 wing 77.6 mm.
Female. Length 7.88.8 mm.
 wing 8.28.8 mm.
Rostrum and palpi brown the latter darker.
Antennae with the first segment dark brown grayish pubescent second segment dark brown flagellum dull yellow.
Head light gray.
Mesonotal praescutum clear light brownish yellow without stripes scutellum and postnotum a little more yellowish.
Pleura pale reddish yellow.
Halteres short yellow.
Legs with the coxae and trochanters pale yellow femora and tibiae yellow tarsi similar with the four terminal segments and the tips of the metatarsi light brown.
Wings with the membrane tinged with yellow the veins light brown costal margin and the veins in the costal field with a fringe of long golden hairs.
Venation Plate XXV fig.
12  Rs elongate about onehalf Longer than the cell 1st M t .
Abdominal segments brownish yellow with a subterminal brownish black ring in the male lacking in the female.
HabitatEastern I'nited States.
Holotype d Maryland near Plunmiers Island July 21 1915 Alexander.
Allotype 9 Plummers Island Maryland July 21 1915 Alexander.
Paratopotypes 1 cf  10 9 's McAtee and Alexander paratype 9  Dead Run Virginia July 21 1915 McAtee cf  Lost Mountain Cobb County Georgia July 13 1913 Bradley.
Type in the collection of the author.
This is probably the species that Osten Sacken referred to when he said immature specimens of a paler coloring than sobrina with uniformly pale feet and without any trace of a darker tinge near the apex of the wings often occur.
3 These specimens do not represent teneral insects but fully colored specimens of both sexes some of them taken in copulation.
Besides the pale coloration the elongate sector will distinguish the species fa om sobrina Plate XXV  IDTribe Eriopterini.
ERIOPTERA Meigen.
Erioptera Meigen Illigers Magazine vol.
2 p. 262 1S03.
Erioptera Erioptera laticeps sp.
n. Head very broad coloration dark the humeral triangles pale pleura marked with brown and yellow abdomen banded brown ami white  wings nearly hyaline.
Male.
 Length 4.6 mm.
 wing 3.8 mm.
Female.
 Length 5 mm.
 wing 4 mm.
The specimens are described from alcoholic material.
Rostrum and palpi dark brown.
Antennae dark brown the flagellar segments shortoval more elongated toward the tip of the organ.
Head very broad especially behind frontal tubercle distinct.
Head dark grayish brown paler brown on the genae.
Mesonotal prsescutum dark brown the region before the pseudosutural fovea
light yellow triangular in outline remainder of the mesonotum dark brown the scutellum yellow.
Pleura mottled brown and brownish yellow the sternal region more brownish a 3 Monographs of the Diptera of North America pt.
1 p. L19 L869 group of about twenty long pale hairs on the caudal margin of the mesepimeron just cephalad of the halteres.
Halteres pale yellow throughout the knobs large.
Legs with the coxse and trochanters brown femora dark brown tibiae and tarsi especially the terminal segments of the latter paler brown.
Wings subhyaline the stigma indistinct veins brown.
Venation Plate XXVII fig.
34.
Abdominal tergites one and two dark brown three to eight dark brown broadly margined caudally and more narrowly on the sides with pale yellowish white giving the organ a banded appearance pleural integument pale sternites similar to the tergites but paler brown.
Male hypopygium Plate XXXI fig.
97 with the pleurites short and stout the pleural appendages a dorsal cylindrical fleshy lobe and a more ventral acute chitinized point with a smaller chitinized lobe on its ventral face ninth tergite concave on the caudal margin underneath with two stout chitinized lobes that are decussate.
The female has the tergal valves of the ovipositor long strongly upcurved chitinized brown sternal valves short pale acutely pointed.
Habitat.
 Western United States.
Holotype cf Blue Lake Humboldt County California June 2027 1907 Bradley.
Allotype 9  with the type.
Paratopotypes 4 cf 's.
Type in the collection of Cornell University.
Erioptera Mesocyphona tantilla sp.
n. Vertex unicolorous mesonotum brown with three narrow blackish stripes femora pale with a narrow indistinct subterminal band costal region of the wings dark with tiny spots at the ends of Sc Rx R 2 and R 3  caudal cells of the wings with gray spots cell 1st M 2 closed.
Male.
 Length 4.5 mm.
 wing 3.6 mm.
Rostrum and palpi light brown.
Antennae reddish yellow the flagellum a little more brownish  flagellar segments very slender with elongate verticils.
Head brownish yellow without distinct markings the vertex with numerous long hairs.
Mesonotal praescutum light brownish gray medially more yellowish laterally the central portion delimited on either side by an indistinct narrow brown line a still darker narrow brown median line interrupted at the level of the tuberculate pits scutum with the lobes pale indistinctly marked with brown an oblique row of about seven bristles crosses the lobe with a smaller group on I be proximal margin of the lobe scutellum dark reddish brown distinctly and rather broadly light yellow medially the sides of the sclerite also passing into yellowish postnotum brownish gray with an indistincl narrow brown median line.
Pleura brownish yellow with a narrow brown pleural stripe the sternal region a little paler brown.
Halteres short brown.
Legs with the coxae light brown trochanters dull yellow femora light brown the apical quarter more yellowish and enclosing a narrow brown subterminal annulus tibia' dull brownish yellow the tips and the tarsi broken.
Wings with the apical costal portion dark brown the basal costal portion and the caudal portions of the membrane much paler subhyaline cells C and Sc with a few scattered brown spots a small white spot at the tip of Sci at the tip of Ri and near the tips of R 2 and R 3  the hyaline areas of the wings with a rather dense but pale pattern of small spots and blotches brownish in the radial field passing into grayish on the caudal fields of the wings.
Venation Plate XVII fig.
35 cell 1st M 2 closed the outer deflection of M 3 and crossvein m being present.
Abdominal tergites brownish yellow with abundant long pale hairs sternites yellowish gray indistinctly trivittate with brown the segments with abundant pale brown setigerous punctures.
Habitat.
 Southeastern United States.
Holotype cf Jackson Mississippi August 8 H. S. Barber.
Type in the collection of the United States National Museum.
Similar to E. costalis Alexander 4 but the cell 1st M 2 closed and the wingpattern much heavier in the costal region.
Erioptera Empeda nyctops sp.
n. Pale yellow throughout wings with Sc long vein R 2 oblique crossvein r present cell 1st M 2 closed with the basal deflection of Cui beneath it.
Male.
 Length 3.83.9 mm.
 wing 4.34.4 mm.
Female.
 Length 3.84 mm.
 wing 4.54.7 mm.
Rostrum light yellow palpi brown.
Antennae with the scapal segments pale yellow the flagellum light brown.
Head bright light yellow.
Eyes large black.
Mesonotal praescutum pale reddish yellow unmarked more yellowish laterally tuberculate pits pale remote from the anterior margin of the sclerite as in Erioptera remainder of the mesonotum more shiny.
Pleura light yellow.
Halteres pale yellowish the 4 Proceedings of the United States National Museum vol.
1 1.
.
511 1913  knobs brown.
Legs with the coxae and trochanters dull yellow femora brown a little paler basally tibiae and tarsi brown.
Wings subhyaline stigma indistinct veins pale brownish yellow.
Venation Plate III fig.
36  Sc long ending beyond the fork of the sector Sc t about four to six times as long as Sc 2  Rs long gently arcuated crossvein r present connecting with R 23 at about onethird its length R 2 oblique as in Gonomyia subcinerea  cell 1st M 2 closed basal deflection of Cui at about onethird to onefourth the length of the cell.
Abdomen brownish yellow the sternites paler yellow.
Male hypopygium Plate XXXI fig.
98 with the pleurites moderately slender broader basally bearing three appendages the largest appendage a very elongate digitiform with numerous long scattered hairs on raised tubercles the apex a little flattened blunt this appendage decussate with its fellow of the opposite side the two smaller appendages are slender one b directed proximad decussate pale the tip drawn out into a long point the third appendage c slender directed cephalad slightly enlarged beyond the middle the tip subacute.
Penisguard rectangular on the ventral side running out into a sharp median chitinized point.
In a position of rest the large fingerlike appendages lie parallel and are more or less approximated but not decussate directed strongly ventrad.
Females have the eyes smaller the praescutum more yellowish ovipositor powerful the valves elongate upcurved toward the tips.
Habitat.
 Northeastern United States.
Holotype cf  Mountain Lake Fulton County New York altitude 1600 feet June 13 1916 Alexander.
Allotype 9  Buell Mountain Fulton County New York altitude 1800 feet June 18 1916.
Paratopotypes 2 c
's 35 9 's.
Type in the collection of the author.
The holotype occurred on rich vegetation along a small temporary stream flowing into the lake on June 13.
Associated with the species at this time were the following craneflies Dicranomyia pubipennis Ormosia rubella Erioptera Empeda stigmatica Limnophila toxoneura L. areolata L. nigripleura L. brevifurca L. rufibasis L. sylvia Ulomorpha pilosella Rhaphidolabis Rhaphidolabis tenuipes R. Rhapidolabina flaveola R. Plectromyia modesta Tricyphona vernalis T. calcar Dolichopeza americana Oropeza venosa Tipula senega T. iroquois and T. hermannia.
The allotype and several of the paratypes occurred along a small temporary torrent pouring down the eastern slopes of Buell Mountain on June 18.
Associated with this species were the following craneflies Dicranomyia pubipennis Limnobia indigena Ldmnophila niveitarsis L. toxoneura L. areolata L. adusta L. brevifurca L. rufibasis L. munda L. montana L. lenta L. emmelina Ula elegans Rhaphidolabis Rhaphidolabina flaveola Dolichopezu americana Tipiiln senega T. hermannia T. maerolaMs and T. valida.
This interesting pallid species gave some trouble in assigning it to this genus The general appearance of the fly is altogether t li.it of Gonomyia hut the presence of the radial crossvein the very elongate subcosta and the position of the tuberculate pits make it more probable that the present reference is the correct one.
In its venation it departs widely from that of the genotype E. stigmatica  'ten Sacken Eastern Nearctic in the oblique Gonomyialike course of vein R 2  in this respect suggesting certain of the European Empedse.
These insects with the oblique R 2 certainly appear different from stigmatica and if this difference were worthy of a name it is this group that would have to be separated off from stigmatica the genus Empeda being erected for the species with the short cell R 2 and the normal Eriopteraike course of vein R 2 .
This GonomyiaErioptera group of species gets more complex with the accession of new forms and it seems probable that the best basis for a division is the position of the tuberculate pits these being far cephalad in the Gonomyialike forms and retreated far backward and lying at nearly midlength of the sclerite in the genera and subgenera related to Erioptera.
MOLOPHILUS Curtis.
Molophilus Curtis British Entomology p. 444 1833.
Molophilus fultonensis sp.
n. Much larger and darker colored than M. pubipennis to which it is most closely related antennae of the female much longer than in the corresponding sex of pubipennis.
Male.
 Length 3.54.4 mm.
 wing 5.66.4 mm.
Female.
 Length 4.55 mm.
 wing 5.36 mm.
Very similar to the smaller M. pubipennis Osten Sacken differing as follows much larger and darker colored especially in the male sex the abdomen being dark brown instead of yellow thorax without the rich reddish tints of pubipennis pronotum not bright yellow as in pubipennis.
Hypopygium with two chitinized hooks Plate XXXI figs.
95 96 the curved hook directed abruptly ventrad ending in a long slender point the smaller straight one is more dorsad in position minutely denticulated along the ventral face proximolateral angle produced into a sharp point.
Hypopygium quite as in pubipennis but the ventral hook is more blackened chitinized and the point is longer more slender dorsal hook more slender not so blackened the sharp point on the proximolateral angle not so long.
The female has the antennae much longer than in this sex of pubipennis the flagellar segments dark brown not yellowish the terminal segments darkened flagellar segments elongateoval instead of merely oval wings Plate XXVII fig.
37 with the anterior margin and apex with a fringe of reddish brown to dark brown hairs not bright yellow as in pubipennis.
Habitat.
 Northeastern United States.
Holotype   Mountain Lake Fulton County New York altitude 1600 feet July 7 1916 Alexander.
Allotype 9  with the type.
Paratopotypes 15 cf 9 's paratypes 1 d Taylor Cortland County New York altitude 1200 feet July 20 1916 2 cf's near Cincinnatus Chenango County New York altitude 1300 feet July 21 1916.
Type in the collection of the author.
A large striking species the largest yet discovered in the eastern States.
The types occurred on rich vegetation along a small temporary stream flowing into the lake.
This is the same locality described under Erioptera nyctops but by this date July 7 the stream had disappeared and the midsummer cranefly fauna was quite different from that found less than four weeks before.
The principal species recorded now were the following Dicranomyia immodesta D. pubipennis D. macateei Elephantomyia westwoodi Erioptera chrysocoma E. chlorophylla E. armillaris E. armata E. caloptera E. stigmatica Molophilus pubipennis M. ursinus Lininopkila fuscovaria L. quadrata Bittacomorpha jonesi etc.
Molophilus novaoaesariensis sp.
n. Size small wing under 3.2 mm.
 coloration dark brownish black wings dusky with the fusion between Cu x and M 3 slight  hypopygium of the male with the ventral appendages straight slender heavily chitinized.
Male.
 Length about 2.7 mm.
 wing 2.8 mm.
Rostrum and palpi blackish.
Antennae rather elongated dark brown the flagellar segments cylindrical with an abundant long pale pubescence.
Head dark gray.
Mesonotum black with a sparse grayish bloom  pleura dark brownish black the dorsopleural membranes a little brighter.
Halteres short dull yellow throughout the knobs elongate.
Legs with the coxae brown the trochanters yellowish brown femora and tibiae dark brown the former a little brighter at the base tarsi light brown the tips of the segments and all of the terminal two segments darker.. Wings with a dusky suffusion the costal and stigmal regions a little more suffused veins dark brown.
Venation Plate XXVII fig.
38 first deflection of R 2 elongate oblique not perpendicular as in ursinus Plate XXVII fig.
39  fusion of M 3 and Cu x slight shorter than the free portion of Gu alone.
Abdomen dark brownish black with a long pale pubescence.
Hypopygium narrowed the ventral appendage very long slender acicular and almost straight heavily chitinized.
Habitat. Eastern United States.
Holotype d 71  Ashland Camden County New Jersey May 13 1905.
Type in the collection of the United States National Museum.
This species occurred in the United States National Museum collection bearing the label U M. ursinus f in Coquillett's writing.
M. ursinus Osten Sacken probably the smallest cranefly in the United States wing of the male 2.4 mm.
 is the only species with which it might be confused the venation of the two species is quite distinct that of the new species being much more of the normal Molophilus type.
M. ursinus Plate XXVII fig.
39 has the upward deflection of R 2 almost perpendicular and in a line with the radial crossvein basal deflection of Cui before the fork of M the fusion of Cui and M 3 being correspondingly extensive longer than the free portion of Cui alone there is a clear hyaline area running along theanterior face of vein M this obliterating the base of M 12  M. novaccesariensis Plate XXVII fig.
38 has the upward deflection of R 2 .
elongate oblique basal deflection of Cui about at the fork of M the fusion of Cui and M 3 being very slight not more than onehalf the free portion of Cui alone there is no hyaline obliterative mark along vein M and the base of M  2 is distinct.
EMPEDOMORPHA gen. n. Head with the front broad the eyes widely separated.
Rostrum short.
Palpi foursegmented the segments subequal.
Antennae16segmented the second segment not longer and only a little broader than the third flagellar segments oval with verticils just below midlength terminal segments smaller.
Legs moderately stout the
34 segments with abundant strong hairs tibiae without spurs.
Wing of the male Plate XXVII fig.
40 with the stigma enormously enlarged so that the costal and radial veins in that field are bulged outward stigma extending from the basal portion of cell Ri to the end of vein R t  wing of the female with the stigma smaller the cells Ri not so wide and the crossvein r consequently shorter and more nearly straight.
Sc moderately long ending just before the fork of Rs Sc 2 far retreated lying just beyond the origin of Rs Rs long straight in a line with 45 crossvein r long oblique somewhat twisted inserted at the end of Rs or just beyond on R 23  R 23 about as long as R 2 alone R 2 arcuated at its base cell 1st M 2 closed sometimes open by the atrophy of crossvein m which when present is usually weak  basal deflection of Cui at or just before the fork of M fusion of Cu x and M 3 moderate about onehalf of Cui alone or a little longer than the deflection of Cui.
Genotype.
 
Trimicra empedoides Alexander.
Midwestern Near ctic region.
Empedomorpha empedoides Alexander.
1 Trimicra empedoides Alexander Canadian Entomologist vol.
48 pp.
44 45 1916.
This curious fly ranges from South Dakota to Texas and New Mexico an unrecorded station being Brownsville Texas May 3 1904 H. S. Barber a 9 in the collection of the United States National Museum.
GONOMYIA Meigen.
Gonomyia Meigen Systematische Beschreibung vol.
1 p. 146 1818.
The numerous species of this genus may be divided into three subgenera Gonomyia Gonomyella and Leiponeura and it is the lastnamed group that has caused so much confusion in the study of craneflies during the past few years the species having been described in a wide range of Limnobine and Antochine genera Dicranomyia Atarba Elliptera Teucholabis Thaumastoptera etc..
Brunetti in his exhaustive work on the Diptera Nematocera of British India pp.
469 470 enters into a long discussion as to the homologies of the veins of those species of Gonomyia which have but two branches of the sector reaching the wingmargin i.e. the subgenus Leiponeura Skuse.
He presents the rather farfetched idea of the cell R 2 being unusually large sessile and the vein R 4 5 lacking so that crossvein rm connects M 12 with R 3 .
A study of a series of the species of the genus show the impossibility of this interpretation R iS being one of the most constant veins of the wing in the Tipulidse.
It is much more reasonable to figure out the disappearance of one of these branches by fusion to the wingmargin a condition found in many remote cranefly tribes Limnophilini the Neotropical genus Psaronius Enderlein Hexatomini the genus Hexatoma and the reduced form Cladolipes Palsearctic etc..
In the genus Gonomyia we may start with forms possessing a deep cell R 2 and the radial crossvein present as in the subgenus Gonomyella Alexander slossona
Alexander through species with the cell a little less deep subcinerea group Nearetic Plate XXVI fig.
33 affinis Brunetti Oriental et al.
 then to still smaller forked species noveboracensis Plate XXVI fig.
30 aperta Brunetti and finally to a group of species that have the cell very tiny sulphurella group Plate XXVI fig.
26 flavonotata Edwards of the Seychelles Islands et al.
 a single step further in the fusion of R i z resulting in the obliteration of the cell and the attainment of the condition found in Leiponeura Plate X XVI figs.
1722.
With this fusing of the branches of 23 there occurs a simultaneous tendency for R i5 to bend caudad toward the wingapex so that in the species of Leiponeura these two branches of the radial sector are very widely separated at the wingmargin.
It is a very easy matter to pick out the species of this group merely by this one tendency alone a correlated character however being the extremely narrowed often almost pointed inner end of cell 1st M 2 due to the extreme shortening of the basal deflection of ilfi 2 .
Dr. Bergroth has expressed his belief that although Gonomyia manca Osten Sacken is a true though aberrant member of the genus the other species that have been described in various Antochine genera such as Atarba Elliptera Leiponeura etc. are quite distinct from manca and really belong to the tribe Antochini.
The series of Leiponeura as they occur in the United States alone and without taking into consideration the rest of the world show a curious and almost complete transition into the sulphurella group of Gonomyia s.s.
I would point out the exceedingly long verticils of the flagellar segments of the male antennse that are found not only in the species of Leiponeura manca pleuralis et al.
 but also in Gonomyia sulphurella another proof of the close relationship existing since this condition of the antennse elsewhere in the family is rare or lacking.
Occasionally a cranefly society is found in which the dominant element consists of species of this genus.
Such a society was found in the Shaul woods on the east bank of Nowadaga Creek Castle Creek south of the village of Indian Castle Herkimer County New York June 13 1915 and may be described as a CronowMiaassociation.
The woods are quite open in places with outcroppings of a transitional character of Trenton limestones and Utica shales and with a western exposure.
The forest cover consists of the dominant arborvitse Thuja occidentalis with an admixture of Juglans cinerea Betula lutea Ulmus americana U. fulva Tilia americana Fraxinus americana and a few others.
The underbrush was of yew Taxus canadensis Ribes Cynosbati and Hamamelis virginiana.
The undergrowth from which the craneflies were swept consisted of three dominant plants early meadowrue Thalictrum dioicum mandrake Podophyllum peltatum and ground ivy Nepeta hederacea with fewer representatives of other species Ranunculus abortivus R. acris Fragaria vesca and an abundance of bladderfern Cystopteris bulbifera.
In places rank growths of Osmunda cinnamomea Podophyllum Solidago Lysimachia Nummularia bound into dense tangles by lianas Menispermum canadense and Psedera quinquefolia.
Here occurred Gonomyia mathesoni Rhabdomastix Sacandaga flava and Erioptera venusta.
Along the base of the hill is a broad ditch now quite dry but supporting such a flora as Cystopteris Lysimachia Nummularia Tussilago Farfara etc.
It is very probable that a certain element of the cranefly fauna emerged from this ditch.
The similarity between the cranefly fauna of this open woods and that of Sport Island in the Sacandaga River Fulton County New York is very close Gonomyia alexanderi G. cognatella G. mathesoni Rhabdomastix flava etc..
The cranefly fauna of this association is as follows Dicranomyia liberta sev.
 Geranomyia canadensis rare Antocha saxicola few Erioptera venusta comm.
 E. armata comm.
 Molophilus pubipennis comm.
 Gonomyia alexanderi uncoram.
 G. sulphurella dom.
 G. mathesoni dom.
 G. cognatella and G. florens loc.
abund.
 G. subcinerea uncomm.
 Rhabdomastix Sacandaga flava uncomm.
 Adelphomyia minuta uncomm.
 Limnophila rufibasis comm.
 Tipula caloptera rare and T. macrolabis rare.
Sport Island in the Sacandaga River New York mentioned above is rather remarkable in its Gonomyia fauna no less than eight species having been taken here G. alexanderi G. sacandaga G. manca G. sulphurella G. cognatella G. mathesoni G. noveboracensis and G. subcinerea  as well as the closely related genus Rhabdomastix Sacandaga flava Alexander.
The floral conditions obtaining here have been discussed by the author in an earlier paper.
5 5 Entomological News vol.
23 p. 72 1912.
A Key to the Near ctic Species of Gonomyia.
1.
Two branches of the radial sector attain the wingmargin Subgenus Leiponeura Skuse.
2 Three branches of the radial sector attain the wingmargin 7 2.
Outer deflection of M 3 absent the cell 1st M 2 being open 3 Outer deflection of M 3 present the cell 1st M 2 being closed 4 3.
Costa conspicuously chinawhite legs banded with white male hypopygiuni with the dorsal pleural appendage triangular the caudal angle a prominent elongate spine ventral pleural appendage a flattened blade whose inner caudal margin is armed with about five or six acute chitinized appressed teeth of which the innermost is the largest.
Eastern United States.
alexanderi Johnson.
Costa not conspicuously chinawhite legs without white bands male hypopygium with the dorsal pleural appendage broadly triangular the caudal angle a short spine ventral pleural appendage a flattened blade bearing near its dorsal inner side a sharp chitinized point no serrations along the lobe.
Western United States.
cinerea Doane.
4.
Pleural stripes conspicuous stigma distinct 5 Pleural stripes indistinct or feebly indicated stigma lacking or very faint 6 5.
Legs with the femora tipped with dark brow r n costal margin of the wings conspicuously light yellow the stigma pale browm.
Northeastern United States.
sacandaga Alexander.
Legs with the femora indistinctly darkened at the tip costal margin of the wings not yellow the stigma dark browTi.
Southeastern United States and southward.
pleuralis Williston.
6.
Pleura plumbeous with a pale yellow stripe male hypopygium with the pleural appendage armed with a strongly curved hook.
Southeastern United States and southward.
pner Alexander.
Pleura unstriped pale male hypopygium with the pleural appendage very elongate slender decussate in a position of rest the inner face at the apex with a strong bristle.
Eastern Lmited States.
manca Osten Sacken.
7.
Radial crossvein present subgenus Gonomyella Alexander i Southeastern United States and southward.
slossonce Alexander.
Radial crossvein lacking subgenus Gonomyia Meigen 8 8.
Basal deflection of Cu x far before the fork of M  subcosta long ending beyond the origin of Rs 9 Basal deflection of Cui at or beyond the fork of M subcosta short ending opposite or far before the origin of Rs 11 9.
Wings clear.
Northeastern United States.
mathesoni Alexander.
Wings spotted 10 10.
Pleura unstriped Sc rather short extending to about onefourth the length of the sector no dark blotch at the tip of Sci apices of cells R s and R 5 largely darkened.
Eastern United States.
blanda Osten Sacken.
Pleura striped with brown Sc long ending at about half the length of the sector a dark blotch at the tip of Sd apices of cells Rz and R only slightly darkened.
Western United States.
calif ornica Alexander.
11.
Antennae orange at the base the flagellum dark 12 Antennae black throughout 15 12.
Cell 1st M 2 closed femora with a dark brown subterminal annulus.
Eastern United States.
sulphurella Osten Sacken.
Cell 1st Mo open femora without a darker subterminal annulus... 13 13.
Sc short ending before the origin of Rs this distance being about equal to the vein R 2 .
Western United States.
flavibasis Alexander.
Sc longer ending opposite or just before the origin of Rs 14 14.
Male hypopygium with the dorsal angle of the pleurite stout with numerous about fifteen slender hairs ventral appendage simple stout tipped by a blunt black spine second appendage a powerful curved subchitinized arm directed proximad.
Northeastern United States.
fiorens Alexander.
Male hypopygium with the dorsal angle of the pleurite slender with a few about ten stout hairs ventral appendage bifid the arm with a long slender black spine second appendage a slender pale arm that is almost straight with two hairs at the tip.
Eastern United States.
cognatella Osten Sacken.
15.
Wings with slender veins clouded with a milky suffusion Rs very long and straight.
Northwestern North America.
 galactoptera Bergroth.
Wings with stouter veins pale gray to hyaline Rs shorter more arcuated basally 16 16.
Subcosta short ending before the origin of Rs the distance about equal to the rm crossvein vein R2 oblique a little longer than the crossvein rm male hypopygium with the gonapophyses and penisguard fused into a large prominent cylindrical tube.
Northeastern United States.
noveboracensis Alexander.
Subcosta longer ending about opposite the origin of Rs  vein R 2 longer the cell R 2 being larger male hypopygium with the gonapophyses and penisguard not fused into a cvlindrical tube 17 17.
Wings long and slender with a strong grayish brown suffusion halteres elongated male hypopygium with the ventral pleural appendage very elongate slender slightly expanded toward the tip.
Eastern Rocky Mountain region.
filicauda Alexander.
Wings broader not strongly tinged with grayish  halteres shorter male hypopygium with the ventral pleural appendage not strikingly elongated 18 18.
Male hypopygium with the dorsal pleural appendage armed with a chitinized hook 19 Male hypopygium with the dorsal pleural appendage without a hook although with two powerful bristles at the tip 20 19.
Male hypopygium with the dorsal appendage two lobed the caudal arm a powerful chitinized spine ventral arm with a sharp chitinized feebly curved spine.
Eastern United States.
subcinerea Osten Sacken.
Male hypopygium with the dorsal appendage irregular not two lobed the outer face near the apex with a strong curved chitinized hook.
Extralimital Guatemala.
cequalis Alexander.
20.
Male hypopygium with the ventral appendage prominent directed caudad narrowed at the base the apex a slight chitinized tooth directed proximad.
Western United States.
virgata Doane.
Male hypopygium not as described 21 21.
Male hypopygium with the ventral appendage a double darkcolored lobe the inner arm stoutcylindrical the outer arm slender curved bearing at the tip two divergent hairs penisguard subtended by two divergent chitinized arms that are acute at their tips.
Extralimital Guatemala.
unicolor Alexander.
Male hypopygium with the ventral appendage pale not chitinized penisguard long and pale the apex bifid by a deep Ushaped notch the divergent subtending arms are slender the ventral margin with a few sharp appressed teeth.
Extralimital Mexico.
mexicana Alexander.
Subgenus LEIPONEURA Skuse.
The Cinerea Group.
Gonomyia Leiponeura alexanderi Johnson.
EUiptera alexanderi Johnson Psyche vol.
19 p. 3 fig.
6 1912.
This handsome little fly is locally common.
Its known distribution over the eastern United States is as follows New York Fulton County Sport Island Sacandaga River June 11 1914 to August 24 1910 Alexander the typelocality Herkimer County Indian Castle June 13 1915 Alexander.
North Carolina Buncombe County Black Mountains June 13 1912 Beutenmuller.
A female specimen from Piano Collin County Texas in August E. S. Tucker probably belongs here but may possibly represent G. helophila Alexander.
This is also the species mentioned by Osten Sacken in the Monographs part 4 p. 179 without locality.
The wing is shown on Plate XXVI fig.
17.
The male hypopygium is described below the characters being largely taken from paratypic material in my collection.
Hypopygium Plate XXIX figs.
59 61 with the pleurites rather prominent cylindrical ventral pleural appendage v elongate the outer angle produced caudad as a rather broad flattened blade that is slightly chitinized at the tip inner caudal margin of the appendage with about five or six acute chitinized appressed teeth of which the innermost is the largest a fleshy lobe on the ventral side of the outer blade middle pleural appendage lacking possibly of a caducous nature  dorsal pleural appendage d lying on the inner caudal angle of the pleurite triangular in outline the caudal angle produced caudad as an elongate spine that is heavily chitinized apically the inner angle a rounded lobe with numerous setigerous tubercles.
The two Nearctic species alexanderi and cinerea have been distinguished by the key given before.
There is a third species G. helophila Alexander 6 that is even closer to alexanderi.
Its known range is extralimital Lesser Antilles and British Guiana to Peru but it may range into our southern limits.
The two species may be separated as follows 1 .
Dorsal pleural appendage triangular the caudal angle a prominent spine that is heavily chitinized apically middle pleural appendage apparently lacking ventral pleural appendage with a broad flattened blade the inner caudal margin with about five or six acute chitinized appressed teeth of which the innermost is the largest Plate XXIX fig.
59.
Nearctic.
alexanderi Johnson.
Dorsal pleural appendage a fleshy lobe bearing many hairs  middle pleural appendage a slender subsinuous spine ventral pleural appendage with the apex flattened smooth chitinized bilobed ventral margin of the appendage with two prominent teeth whose margins are minutely denticulate.
Plate XXIX fig.
60.
Neotropical.
helophila Alexander.
Gonomyia Leiponeura cinerea Doane Dicranomyia cinerea Doane Journal of the New York Entomological Society vol.
8 pp.
182 183 PI.
7 fig.
2 1910.
The known range of this species is as follows Washington Whitman County Pullman August 10 1898 Piper the typelocality.
California Humboldt County Blue Lake June 2027 1907 Bradley .
The wing is shown on Plate XXVI fig.
18.
6 Entomological News vol.
27 pp.
343346 figs.
1 3 1916.
The male has never been described and this specimen is made the allotype.
Allotype cf.
 Rostrum and palpi dark brown.
Antennae with the basal segments enlarged the second segment as large as or larger than the first flagellar segments small brown.
Head pale with a broad dark brown mark on the vertex sending a small median tongue backward onto the occiput.
Pronotal scutum dark medially.
Mesonotal preescutum light brown with three dark brown stripes the median one split by a narrow vitta of the groundcolor scutum with the lobes dark brown.
Pleura pale yellow striped with brown a very short brown dorsal stripe extending from the pronotum back to above the fore coxae second stripe beginning at the fore coxa extending caudad to the base of the halter ventral stripe broadest including the sterna and the bases of the middle and hind coxae the pale stripe enclosed broad extending to the abdomen.
Halteres pale.
Legs with the coxae pale trochanter's darker remainder of the legs broken.
Wings hyaline or nearly so the veins brown basal deflection of R ib  rm and the basal deflection of Cih dark brown a pale brownish gray oval stigma.
Venation Plate XXVI fig.
18 with Rs short straight oblique a little longer than the rm crossvein basal deflection of Cui at the fork of M. Male hypopygium Plate XXIX fig.
62 with the pleurites rather prominent cylindrical ventral pleural appendage y elongate flattened bladelike the apex chitinized a rounded lobe on the inner ventral side just before the apex at the base on the inner dorsal side a sharp acute chitinized point middle appendage a slender slightly curved pale hook directed inward the apex slightly chitinized dorsal pleural appendage d a subtriangular lobe the caudal angle produced caudad as a short spine heavily chitinized at the apex the inner angle prominent produced slightly cephalad with numerous setigerous punctures.
Allotype in the collection of Cornell University.
The type is grayish this color being produced by a pruinosity that is not shown by the alcoholic allotype.
The Pleuralis Group.
Gonomyia Leiponeura sacandaga Alexander.
Gonomyia sacandaga Alexander Proceedings of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia pp.
587 588 PL 27 fig.
25 wing  PL 26 fig.
21 hypopygium 1914.
This species is still known only from the type station where it is common.
New York Fulton County Sport Island in the Sacandaga River June 11 1914 to August 24 1910 the typelocality.
The wing is shown on Plate XXVI fig.
19.
The hypopygium having been described and figured in the first part of this series is not repeated here.
Gonomyia Leiponeura pleuralis Williston.
Atarba pleuralis Williston Transactions of the Entomological Society of London p. 289 PL 10 fig.
61 1896.
This is a tropical species that reaches our southern limit its range being as follows Bermuda apparently common Jones.
Georgia Charlton County Okefinokee Swamp June 20 1912 Bradley.
Cuba Baracoa September 1901 Busck.
Porto Rico Aguadilla January 1899 Busck.
St. Vincent H. H. Smith the typelocality.
British Guiana Bartica December 9 1912 to February 26 1913 Mallali March 14 1913 Parish.
The wing is shown on Plate XXVI fig.
20.
The male hypopygium has been described and figured by the author in another paper.
7 The Manca Group.
Gonomyia Leiponeura puer Alexander.
Gonomyia puer Alexander Proceedings of the United States National Museum vol.
44 p. 506 PL 66 fig.
14 1913.
This is likewise a tropical species that ranges within our limits its northern distribution being a little more extensive than the last.
South Carolina Georgetown County South Island August 19 1915 Alexander Charleston County McClellanville August 8 1915 Alexander.
Georgia Charlton County Okefinokee Swamp June 20 to 25 1912 Bradley .
Florida Dade County Miami December 19 1912 Knab.
Santo Domingo San Francisco Mountains August September 1905 Busck the typelocality.
British Guiana Bartica January 3 1913 to January 10 1913 Parish.
The wing is shown on Plate XXVI fig.
21.
''Entomological News vol.
23 pp.
418420 figs.
3 4 1912.
The male hypopygium Plato XXIX fig.
63 with the pleurites very elongated broader at the base tapering to the obliquely truncated apex which bears on the inner side a single appendage shaped as a curved hook bent proximad dorsad and finally cephalad the apex acute and strongly chitinized.
Anal tube broad pale bifid by a deep median notch the adjacent lobes rounded.
Penisguard p.gd.
very elongate slender tapering gradually to the acute apex at the base on the ventral side with an oval fleshy lobe covered with setigerous punctures on the ventral face.
Gonomyia Xeiponeura manca Osten Saeken.
Gonomyia manca Osten Saeken Monographs of the Diptera of North America part 4 pp.
178 17H  lst9.
A rather wideranging species throughout the eastern United States New York Fulton County Sacandaga Park August 26 1916 Alexander .
New Jersey Essex County South Orange June 30 1868 Osten Saeken the typelocality.
Maryland Montgomery County Forest Glen June 1 1913 Knab Plummers Island August 18 1912 Viereck.
District of Columbia Washington Coquillett's types of Dicranomyia curvivena.
Virginia Fairfax County Great Falls August 23 1908 Knab Difficult Run July 25 1915 McAtee and Alexander Glencarlyn May 28 Banks.
North Carolina Jones County Pollocksville July 8 1915 Alexander  Onslow County Camp Perry July 9 1915 Alexander  Buncombe County Black Mountains June 24 1912 Beutenmuller.
South Carolina Charleston County McClellanville August 8 1915 Alexander.
Georgia Decatur County Bainbridge September October 1910 Bradley.
The wing is shown on Plate XXVI fig.
22.
The male hypopygium is of the type of G. puer Alexander.
G. incrmis Alexander et at.
It is shown on Plate XXIX figs.
64 65 the pleurites are exceedingly elongated slender tapering to the narrow apex the outer face with many long hairs on the inner face at the apex wit h a st tong bristle pleurites in a position of rest decussate.
Penisguard p.gd.
long and slender acute tapering to an acute point subtended on either side by a flattened blade ending in a triangular black hook that is bent slight ly dorsad at the apex.
Subgenus GONOMYELLA Alexander.
Gonomyia Gonomyella slossonae Alexander.

Gonomyia slossonce Alexander Proceedings of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia pp.
588 589 PI.
27 fig.
26 1914.
A tropical species that ranges into the southeastern United States South Carolina Georgetown County South Island August 19 1915 Alexander.
Florida Seminole County Sanford May 7 1908 M. C. VanDuzee Dade County Biscayne Bay A. T. Slosson the typelocality.
Panama Paraiso January 29 1911 Busck.
Subgenus GONOMYIA Meigen.
The Blanda Group.
Gonomyia Gonomyia mathesoni Alexander.
Gonomyia mithesoni Alexander Entomological News vol.
28 pp.
170172 figs.
13 1915.
A species of the northeastern United States and eastern Canada Nova Scotia Truro July 7 to 26 1913 Matheson.
New York Fulton County Sacandaga Park June 12 to 16 1914 Alexander the typelocality Herkimer County Indian Castle June 13 1915 Alexander Cortland County Taylor July 20 1916 Alexander  Tompkins County Ithaca August 24 1912 Alexander.
The wing is shown on Plate XXVI fig.
23.
The hypopygium of the male has been described and figured in the paper cited above.
Gonomyia Gonomyia blanda Osten Sacken.
Gonomyia blanda Osten Sacken Proceedings of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia p. 231 1859.
This handsome fly ranges over the eastern United States New Hampshire Rockingham County Hampton July 15 1907 S. A. Shaw.
Vermont Chittenden County Burlington June 23 1906 Johnson.
Connecticut New Haven County East River July 16 to 20 1910 Ely.
New York Albany County Albany June 26 1912 D. B.
Young Herkimer County Trenton Falls Osten Sacken the typelocality Cortland County Taylor July 20 1916 Alexander Tompkins County Ithaca July 19 1912 Alexander.
District of Columbia Washington Osten Sacken  the typelocality.
Virginia Fairfax County Falls Church June 7 1914 Shannon.
South Carolina in the Berlin Museum.
Georgia Rabun County Clayton altitude 2000 feet May 18 1911 Bradley i. Michigan Walnut Lake June 26 to 28 1907 Needham.
Colorado Clear Creek County June 27 1915 Oslar.
The wing is shown on Plate XXVI fig.
24.
The malt' hypopygium Plate XXIX figs.
68 69 with the pleurites stout the outer angle produced caudad into a long fleshy fingerlike lobe blunt at the apex provided with numerous tubercles ventral pleural appendage v large prominent being chitinized and bifid the caudal or outer arm longer slender the diameter uniform the apex subacute cephalic or inner arm shorter expanded distally into a broad truncated apex dorsal pleural appendage d a subtriangular fleshy lobe whose inner angle is produced into a prominent chitinized curved horn the cephalic inner margin with about six hairbearing tubercles.
Ninth tergite with the caudal margin transversely concave not notched medially.
Penisguard very slender.
Gonomyia Gonomyia californica Alexander.
Gonomyia californica Alexander Canadian Entomologist vol.
48 pp.
324.
325 1916.
This is the western representative of the blanda group British Columbia Peachland May 19 1912.
California Humboldt County Blue Lake June 20 to 27 1907 Bradley the typelocality.
The wing is shown on Plate XXVI fig.
25.
The male hypopygium Plate XXIX figs.
66 67 with the pleurites stout outer angle produced caudad into a slender fleshy lobe pointed at the apex and sparsely provided with setigerous tubercles ventral pleural appendage v a twoarmed chitinized rod whose outer ventral arm is stout basally narrowed toward the apex which is again expanded into a blunt tip the inner arm bends dorsad slender tapering into an acute blackened apex dorsal pleural appendage d a triangular fleshy lobe provided with long coarse hairs.
Ninth tergite with a deep narrow median notch the lateral angles rounded.
Penisguard p.gd.
prominent the sides subparallel the apical half on the dorsal surface with numerous hairs the apex produced ventrocaudad into a prominent median lobule.
The Sulphurella Group.
Gonomyia I Gonomyia I sulphurella Osten Sacken.
Gonomyia sulphurella Osten Sacken Proceedings of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia p. 230 1859.
A wideranging species throughout eastern North America Ontario Fort Erie May 30 1911 M. C. Van Duzee Point au Barile Georgian Bay July 11 1914 R. B. Hughes.
Nova Scotia Truro July 7 to August 16 1913 Matheson.
Maine Oxford County Fryeburg September 5 1913 Alexander.
Vermont Windsor County Norwich July 8 1908 Johnson.
Connecticut Middlesex County Middletown June 17 1909 Johnson New Haven County East River July 11 1910 Ely.
Rhode Island Washington County Kingston September 23 1907 Johnson.
New York Fulton County Sacandaga Park June 11 1914 to August 24 1910 Alexander Herkimer County Trenton Falls Osten Sacken the typelocality Indian Castle June 13 1915 Alexander Tompkins County Ithaca May 13 to August 24 1912 Alexander Westchester County Tarrytown June 9 1914 Frost Nassau County Sea Cliff August Banks.
Pennsylvania Luzerne County Hazleton August 30 1910 Dietz.
New Jersey Cumberland County Shiloh June 19 1915 Alexander .
Maryland Prince George County Hyattsville August 2 1908 Knab.
District of Columbia Washington Osten Sacken the typelocality May 15 1909 Knab.
Virginia Alexandria County Rosslyn May 11 1913 Knab  Fairfax County Dead Run May 21 1914 Shannon Difficult Run July 25 1915 McAtee and Alexander Glencarlyn June 28 Banks.
North Carolina Onslow County Camp Perry July 9 1915 Alexander.
Georgia Rabun County Clayton May 20 1911 Bradley.
Louisiana DeSoto County Logansport March 24 1908 Tucker.
Texas Collin County Piano May 1907 Tucker.
The wing is shown on Plate XXVI fig.
26.
The male hypopygium Plate XXIX fig.
70 with the pleurites elongate the outer angle produced proximad dorsad and caudad as a very elongate slender irregularly curved and feebly chitinized hook which tapers gradually to an acute point dorsal pleural appendage d a cylindrical fleshy lobe narrowed toward the apex which terminates in a bristle ventral pleural appendage v bifid the dorsal arm short densely provided with short hairs on the inner face ventral arm very long slightly curved bladelike the tip subacute the arm directed proximad decussate with its mate of the opposite side.
Penisguard stout fleshy near the apex on the ventral surface a chitinized median appendage directed caudad and slightly ventrad at the acute apex turned strongly dorsad.
The Cognatella Group.
Gonomyia  Gonomyia flavibasis Alexander.
Gonomyia flavibasis Alexander Canadian Entomologist vol.
48 pp.
317319 1916.
A western species that is still known only from the typelocality Monterey County California July 18 1896.
The wing is shown on Plate XXVI fig.
27.
The male hypopygium Plate XXX figs.
7678 with the pleurites long and slender the dorsal angle produced caudad as a flattened fleshy lobe that bears many hairs on the dorsal face first pleural appendage very long flattened the apex bent the appendage with many long prominent hairs second appendage complex consisting of a chitinized hook that is slightly bent underneath the base of this hook is a fleshy lobe with several short bristles on the outer face including two powerful bristles at the apex above the base of the hook is a slender subchitinized rod that is darkened at the tip.
Gonomyia iGonomyia florens Alexander.
Gonomyia florens Alexander Canadian Entomologist vol.
48 pp.
316 317 1916.
A fly of cold Canadian conditions in the northeastern United States Maine Penobscot County Orono July 12 1913 Alexander.
New York Fulton County Sacandaga Park June 18 1916 Alexander Gloversville June 22 1916 Alexander Herkimer County Indian Castle June 9 to 13 1915 Alexander the typelocality Tompkins County McLean June 5 1916 Alexander.
The wing is shown on Plate XXVI fig.
28.
The male hypopygium Plate XXIX fig.
71 with the pleurites very short and stout the inner dorsal angle produced caudad into a blunt fleshy lobe whose inner margin is fringed with numerous long hairs a short blunt fleshy knob A at the base of this lobe provided with five long hairs on the margin first pleural appendage i slender originating just below the knob k directed proximad the base enlarged with two or three stout hairs the tip slightly bifid the caudal arm with two bristles the cephalic arm with one bristle a stout bristle just before the tip on the inner or cephalic side second pleural appendage 2 a powerful chitinized hook slightly curved directed proximad bent strongly cephalad toward the apex third appendage 3 a slender fleshy rod beyond the slightly enlarged base bent strongly dorsad so that it lies above the second appendage directed caudad at the tip which is capped by a short blunt chitinized spine.
Ninth tergite short broad the caudal margin transverse.
Ninth sternite with a prominent median knob on the caudal margin provided with numerous setigerous tubercles.
Gonomyia Gonomyia cognatella Osten Sacken.
Gonomyia cognatella Osten Sacken Proceedings of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia p. 230 1859.
A more southern species than the last their ranges overlapping in New York State  Connecticut New Haven County East River July 6 1910 Ely.
New York Fulton County Sport Island Sacandaga River June 18 1911 to August 26 1916 Alexander Herkimer County Indian Castle June 10 to 13 1915 Alexander.
Maryland Montgomery County Cabin John Bridge May 16 1909 Knab Plummers Island May 24 1914 McAtee.
District of Columbia Washington Osten Sacken  the typelocality.
Virginia Fairfax County Difficult Run July 25 1915 McAtee and Alexander.
North Carolina Buncombe County Black Mountains July 16 1912 Beutenmuller.
The wing is shown on Plate XXVI fig.
29.
The male hypopygium Plate XXIX figs.
7375 with the pleurites very short and stout the inner dorsal angle produced caudad as a slender fingerlike lobe fimbriate with eight or nine long stout hairs on the dorsal inner edge at the base of the lobe a small slender cylindrical knob k with three long hairs at the apex ventrad of this fingerlike angle of the pleurite is an elongate very slender pale appendage 2 directed caudad and slightly ventrad and proximad at the apex with two long slender hairs  pleural appendage 3 directed ventrad on its basal portion soon bent directly upon itself dorsad the tip caudad the appendage is pale chitinized slender bifid the lateral arm with the apex somewhat twisted the proximal arm a slender pale stylet directed strongly proximad at the apex with an elongate slender black chitinized spine.
Proximad of the base of the knob fc is a slender appendage with a prominent hair at the apex and two slightly smaller subterminal hairs.
The Galactoptera Group.
Gonomyia Gonomyia galactoptera Bergroth.
Gonoimiu ialtctoptcra Bergroth Wiener Entomologische Zeitung vol.
7 p. 196 1888.
This fly is still known only from the typelocality Sitka Alaska.
It is the only New World species of this genus that I have not seen.
The Noveboracensis Group.
Gonomyia .Gonomyia noveboracensis Alexander.
Gonomyia noveboracensis Alexander Canadian Entomologist vol.
48 pp.
319 320 1916.
A fly of local distribution in the northeastern United States New York Fulton County Sport Island Sacandaga River June 11 1914 Alexander the typelocality.
The wing is shown on Plate XXVI fig.
30.
The male hypopygium Plate XXX figs.
79 80 with the pleurites prominent elongate with the dorsal inner edge with a prominent tubercle bearing several hairs ventral inner edge with a row of large setigerous tubercles pleurites bearing three small appendages a small inner dorsal cylindrical appendage a directed cephalad slightly enlarged basally at the apex bearing three or four prominent hairs a dorsal apical appendage b directed proximad flattened enlarged at the apex which bears a row of delicate hairs a slender subchitinized ventral apical appendage c directed proximad slightly toothed at the tip and on the lower side just before the tip.
Gonapophyses and the penisguard Plate XXX fig.
80 fused into a very large prominent cylindrical tube armed with chitinized horns and fleshy lobes dorsal surface of the tube with two subpendulous fleshy lobes approximated on the median line densely provided with short pale hairs horns of the cylinder directed caudad and slightly ventrad outermost horns a very broad at the base tapering to the acute apex which is curved proximad the next inner pair b slender chitinized bifid at the apex innermost pair c longest slender slightly twisted narrowed toward the apex.
Ninth tergite with a broad rounded median concavity.
Ninth sternite with a broad Vshaped median notch the adjacent angles produced caudolaterad as fleshy lobes provided with numerous setigerous punctures.
The Subcinerea Group.
Gonomyia i.Gonomyia filicauda Alexander.
Gonomyia filicauda Alexander Canadian Entomologist vol.
48 pp.
320 321 1916.
Still known only from the typelocality Webster near Platte Canon Colorado altitude 9500 feet August 24 to 26 1915 Oslar 35 and the base of Haden Peak Colorado altitude 12000 feet August 10 1915 Oslar.
The wing is shown on Plate XXVI fig.
31.
The male hypopygium Plate XXV figs.
81 82 with the pleurites moderately elongated the dorsal angle produced caudad and slightly dorsad as an elongated fleshy lobe that is sparsely hairy the hairs on the dorsal face strong those.on the inner face weak ventral pleural appendage v very long slender beyond the base slightly expanded the apical portion slender slightly expanded toward the tip dusky in color and provided with an abundance of long delicate hairs dorsal pleural appendage d a short fleshy lobe whose caudal margin is produced into a powerful curved heavily chitinized hook directed inward and dorsad at the tip of the fleshy portion of the lobe are two stout hairs and a group of about eight smaller ones.
Penisguard pale in color simple slender from an enlarged base the apex split by a deep rounded notch.
Gonomyia Gonomyia subcinerea Osten Sacken.
Gonomyia subcinerea Osten Sacken Proceedings of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia p. 231 1859.
This is apparently the commonest and most widely distributed species of the genus.
It seems to be dimorphic or else there are two very closely allied forms that often occur together one of which is sulphuryellow and brown as described for this species the other much more grayish and more restricted in its distribution than the typical form.
Ontario Kearney July 27 28 1911 M. C. Van Duzee Ottawa August 13 1912.
Quebec Gatineau July Beaulieu Aylmer June Beaulne.
Maine Aroostook County Fort Kent August 28 1913 Osborn  Piscataquis County Mt.
Katahdin August 22 1913 Alexander Penobscot County Orono June 8 to September 7 1913 Alexander Hancock County Ellsworth July 10 to August 16 1913 Stan wood.
Vermont Windham County Brattleboro July 15 1908 Johnson.
Massachusetts Middlesex County Riverside August 9 Johnson Auburndale August 16 Johnson.
Connecticut Middlesex County Middletown June 16 1909 Johnson New Haven County East River July 3 1910 Ely.
New York Fulton County Sacandaga Park June 1 1914 Alexander Gloversville June 3 1914 Alexander Herkimer County Trenton Falls Osten Sacken the typelocality Indian Castle June 9 to 13 1915 Alexander Onondaga County Green Lake Juno 8 1915 Alexander Tompkins County Ithaca May 13 to August 7 L910 Albany County Albany June 26 1912 Young Helderberg Mountains June 12 1915 Alexander  Rockland County Wes1 Nyack June 15 1912 W. Sheffield Westchester County Tarntown June 9 1914 Frost.
New Jersey Bergen County Ridgewood July 1911 Leonard Mercer County Princeton June 18 1915 Alexander.
Maryland Montgomery County Forest Glen July 6 1914 McAtee Plummers Island May 26 1914 Shannon.
District oj Columbia Washington Osten Sacken the typelocality.
Virginia Alexandria County Rosslyn May 11 1913 Knab Fairfax County Fourmile Run July 13 1912 Knab.
North Carolina Buncombe County Black Mountains June 13 1912 Beutenmuller Jones County Pollocksville July 8 1915 Alexander .
Michigan Walnut Lake June 2628 1907 Needham.
Saskatchewan Farewell Creek September Mrs. V. A. Anthony.
Missouri St. Louis County West St. Louis May 12 1914 W. V. Warner .
Kansas Pottaw r atomie County Onaga Crevecceur .
Montana Beaver Creek altitude 6300 feet August 1913 Hunter.
The wing is shown on Plate XXVI fig.
33.
The male hypopygium Plate XXVI figs.
8385 with the ninth pleurite elongate rather slender the dorsolateral angle produced caudad in a slender fleshy lobe that is provided with numerous long hairs ventral pleural appendage v a long slender pale brown lobe that is almost straight slightly expanded toward the blunt apex provided with numerous setigerous punctures dorsal pleural appendage d twolobed the caudal lobe a powerful heavily chitinized curved spine that is directed cephalad at its tip provided with two or three small acute denticles before the apex the ventral arm is again bifid the caudal portion a sharp chitinized feebly curved spine the cephalic portion a small subfleshy lobe with several hairs and short spines.
Penisguard very elongate pale narrowed at the apex at the base on either side with a subtending slender subchitinized rod that is more or less flexible.
Gonontyia obscura Doane 8 is unrecognizable the type in the National.
Museum is a broken female that is close to subcinerea although its 8 Journal of the New York Entomological Society vol.
8 p. 192 PI.
8 fig.
7.'
1900 described as a Phyllolabis.
typelocation Pullman Whitman County Washington June 22 1898 is outside of the range of that species as now known.
Gonomyia Gonomyia aequalis Alexander.
Gonomyia cequalis Alexander Canadian Entomologist vol.
48 pp.
323 324 1916.
An extralimital species Guatemala Central America whose hypopygium has never been figured.
Male hypopygium Plate XXX fig.
86 with the pleurites moderately stout the dorsal angle produced caudad as a very slender fingerlike lobe that is provided with numerous setigerous tubercles at the base of this lobe on the inner side is a tiny fleshy protuberance directed proximad ventral pleural appendage v a pale fleshy lobe densely covered with short pale hairs dorsal pleural appendage d irregular fleshy directed proximad the caudal or outer face near the apex with a strong curved chitinized hook that is directed dorsad and cephalad the cephalic or inner face with a row of strong bristles at the tip longer and more approximated.
Ninth tergite almost straight across or slightly concave.
Penisguard rather long compressed the median appendage pale slightly curved.
Anal tube a.t. broad prominent subtended on either side by a concave wing bearing on the caudal outer angle a fimbriate tuft of yellow bristles.
Gonomyia Gonomyia virgata Doane.
Gonomyia virgata Doane Journal of the New York Entomological Society vol.
8 p. 189 PI.
7 fig.
21 1900.
A western species with the following rather restricted range Washington Pacific County Tokeland Doane the typelocality.
California Humboldt County Eureka June 6 1903 H. S. Barber.
The wing is shown on Plate XXVI fig.
32.
The male hypopygium Plate XXX fig.
87 with the ninth pleurites rather elongate the dorsal inner angle produced caudad as a slender cylindrical fleshy lobe that bears numerous long pale hairs ventral pleural appendage v prominent directed caudad narrowed at the base the apex a slight chitinized tooth directed proximad second pleural appendage 2 a flattened or concave lobe heavily chitinized at the apex which is broad split into two acute teeth of which the proximal one is the larger dorsal pleural appendage d small fleshy bent slightly cephalad at the tip which bears two elongate bristles cephalic or inner face of the appendage bearing numerous setigerous tubercles.
Ninth tergite large the caudal margin feebly convex bearing a short pointed tooth just inside the base of the pleurite.
Ninth sternite almost straight across or slightly narrowed to the truncated apex.
Gonomyia Gonomyia unicolor Alexander.
Gonorhyia unicolor Alexander Proceedings of the United States National Museum vol.
44 p. 507 PI.
66 fig.
15 1913 An extralimital species Guatemala Central America included here to complete the data.
The male hypopygium Plate XXX fig.
89 with the pleurites moderately stout and elongated the dorsal angle not produced ventral pleural appendage v a double lobe dark colored subchitinized the inner arm stoutcylindrical with the tip acute and the inner side with two or three hairs the outer and more ventral arm slender curved and bearing near the tip two stout divergent hairs dorsal pleural appendage d a subcylindrical fleshy lobe from an enlarged base at the apex with two powerful bristles cephalic or inner face with four small hairs that are evenly spaced.
Ninth tergite almost straight across or slightly concave.
Penisguard Plate XXX fig.
88 seen from beneath a powerful quadrangular chitinized base whose caudal angle is a ventrally directed hook the base subtended on either side by short gonapophyses g that end in a sharp conical spine  from above and dorsad of the quadrangular base arise two cylindrical pointed chitinized arms that are divergent.
Gonomyia Gonomyia mexicana Alexander.
Gonomyia mexicana Alexander Canadian Entomologist vol.
48 pp.
321 322 1916.
An extralimital species described from Cordoba State of Vera Cruz Mexico May 8 1908 Knab.
The male hypopygium Plate XXX fig.
91 with the pleurites elongate though rather stout ventral pleural appendage v a long pale lobe subcylindrical blunt at the apex and bearing sparse elongate hairs second pleural appendage strongly chitinized the tip acute curved dorsal pleural appendage d rather short cylindrical fleshy the cephalic or inner angle of the apex with two powerful bristles caudal or outer angle of the apex with two smaller hairs.
Ninth tergite rather short the caudal margin straight or nearly so.
Penisguard Plate XXX fig.
90 very long and pale the apex bifid by a deep Ushaped notch each lobe provided with long hairs on the ventral face arises a slender rodlike median appendage sparsely shorthairy at the apex and down the ventral face the divergent subtending arms are slender somewhat flattened the apex produced into a slender cylindrical point the outer or ventral margin with a few sharp appressed teeth.
RHABDOMASTIX Skuse.
Rhabdomastix Skuse Proceedings of the Linnsean Society of New South Wales series 2 vol.
4 pp.
828 829 1889.
Subgenus SACANDAGA Alexander.
Rhabdomastix Sacandaga monticola sp.
n. Coloration grayish black wings whitish hyaline with an indistinct pale brown stigma crossvein r present but faint cell R 2 small cell 1st M 2 elongate with the basal deflection of Ciii inserted at about midlength.
Male.
 Length about 5.5 mm.
 wing 6 mm.
Rostrum and palpi dark brownish black.
Antennae black the flagellar segments with a long pale pubescence flagellar segments narrowed especially terminally.
Head black with a sparse grayish bloom.
Mesonotum black with a sparse grayish yellow pollen tuberculate pits on the extreme cephalic margin of the sclerite.
Pleura clearer gray.
Halteres pale the knobs enlarged the stem a little darkened basally.
Legs with the coxae black with a sparse gray bloom trochanters brown femora dark brown tibiae yellowish brown a little darkened at the base and more narrowly at the tips tarsal segment one and all except the tip of two yellowish brown remainder of the tarsi dark brown.
Wings subhyaline the stigma fairly distinct oval pale brown veins dark brown Sc paler.
Venation Plate XXVII fig.
41 with Rs elongate cell R 2 small vein  2 being short oblique R 3 arcuated crossvein r present but very indistinct bisecting the stigma cell 1st M 2 rectangular somewhat elongated the veins issuing from it not elongated divergent basal deflection of Qui almost midlength of cell 1st M 2 .
Abdomen dark brownish black.
Habitat.
 Western America.
Holotype d Kokanee Mountain British Columbia altitude 8000 feet August 11 1903 R. P. Currie.
Paratopotypes 3 cf's.
Type in the collection of the United States National Museum.
This species was formerly determined as being R. S. caudata Lundbeck 9 in the first part of this series but additional material 9 Diptera groenlandica Vidensk.
Meddel.
fra den naturh.
Foren. p. 267 PL 6 fig.
18 1898 as a Goniomyia subgenus Empeda.
shows that the species is distinct.
It serves to connect the generalized caudata with the specialized members of the subgenus flava parva.
The small cell R 2 and the elongate cell 1st .1 with tinshort divergent veins issuing from it and the basal deflection of Cui inserted at nearly midlength of it serve to separate the form from caudata.
This latter species is described and figured in a publication that is not readily accessible to the student and its venation is shown on Plate XXVII fig.
42.
With caudata this new species agrees in the possession of the radial crossvein but this is here very faint and evidently in process of being eliminated.
In R. flava Plate XXVII fig.
43 the crossvein is lacking.
In regard to the genus Rhabdomastix Skuse it will be noted that Kertesz gives the date of Skuse's paper on the Limnobinse as 1890 the first separates of this article are dated September 25 1889 and it is this date that has been adopted.
PTEROCHIONEA gen. n. Palpi short foursegmented the segments  subequal.
Antennse 11segmented the first segment of the scape longer than the second second segment narrowsubglobular not strikingly wider than the adjacent segments first segment of the flagellum elongate taperingslight ly to the tip formed by the fusion of five segments as determined by the verticils near the tip with a faint suture that passes about halfway across the segment on the verticillate side segments four to ten moderately elongated cylindrical truncated at both ends Plate XXXI fig.
93 with a strong series of verticils terminal segment formed by the fusion of two segments as determined by the verticils.
Wings moderately broad Plate XXVII fig.
44 Sc moderately elongated ending just beyond the end of Rs Sc 2 at its tip Rs long strongly arcuated at its origin crossvein r present cell 1st M z elongate the deflection of M 3 over twice the length of the median crossvein cell Mi present basal deflection of Cui at the fork of M second anal vein short ending before the origin of the sector.
Legs hairy not incrassated tibiae without spurs.
Male hypopygium powerful Plate X XXI.
fig.
94 suggesting the Chionea type the pleural pieces stout cylindrical with a strong pleural appendage somewhat curved nearly as long as the pleurites ventral lobe small rounded hairy.
Genotype.
 Pterochionea bradleyi sp.
n. Western Nearctic region.
This new genus is closest to Crypteria Bergroth 10 of the northern Pahearctic region in the curious fusion of the five basal segments of 10 .Ada Soc.
pro Faun.
t Flr.
Finn. vol.
37 Xo.
6 pp.
37 figs.
14 1913.
the antennae however this fusionsegment is merely elongated and does not show the elongateconical shape of the segment in Crypteria and the even more accentuated condition of Chionea.
Specimens of Chionea valga Harris before me show eight flagellar segments beyond the fusionsegment the basal ones short becoming more and more attenuated toward the tip of the organ.
Therefore in the reduction of the antemial segments by the fusion of the basal flagellar segments Chionea also shows a very close relationship to Crypteria and Pterochionea.
I certainly think that Bergroth is right in surmising a relationship between his Crypteria and the abnormal wingless Chionea and Pterochionea may now be added to the list of possible CTmmeaprecursors.
This interpretation would remove Chionea from the neighborhood of Trimicra and Symplecta and place it at the end of the Eriopterine series along with Cladura and the present genus.
The two winged genera of this group may be separated as follows 1.
Antennae with the second segment enlarged globular the two apical segments of the flagellum entirely distinct crossvein r absent  second anal vein very elongate extending beyond midlength of the radial sector hypopygium with the pleural pieces slender with two small subequal appendages.
Northwestern Palsearctic.
Crypteria Bergroth.
Antennae with the second segment not enlarged the two apical segments of the flagellum fused crossvein r present second anal vein short not reaching to the base of the sector hypopygium with the pleural pieces stoutcylindrical with a strong powerful dorsal appendage that is almost as long as the pleurite.
Northwestern Nearctic.
Pterochionea gen. n. Pterochionea bradleyi sp.
n. Antennae brown of eleven segments wings with cell Mi present male hypopygium strong and powerful.
Male.
 Length 5 mm.
 wing 5.6 mm.
Fore leg femur 3.6 mm.
 tibia 3.8 mm.
 hind leg femur 4.1 mm.
 tibia 4 mm.
The species is described from alcoholic material.
Rostrum short light brown palpi brown.
Antennae dark brown Head yellowish brown.
Thoracic dorsum dull yellow with indistinct darker stripes on the praescutum.
Pleura yellowish.
Halteres pale.
Legs with the coxae and trochanters pale yellow femora light brownish yellow a little darkened apically the fore femora darker being only a little paler at the base tibiae and tarsi brown.
Wings nearly hyaline the stigma indistinct veins dark brown subcosta pale.
Venation Plate XXVII fig.
44 basal deflection of TtVe very short or obliterated the crossvein rm being correspondingly longer arcuated cell Mi short about onehalf as long as its petiole.
Abdomen short the tergites dark brown the hypopygium even darker.
Male hypopygium Plate XXXI fig.
94 powerfully enlarged the pleurites not conspicuously elongated ending in a rounded ventral lobe that is covered with numerous hairs the single pleural appendage a powerful curved arm that is rather blunt at the tip with numerous long hairs on the inner face and at the apex where they are exceedingly numerous and spinous at the extreme apex very tiny.
Habitat.
 British Columbia.
Holotype d Rogers Pass British Columbia August 9 1915 Bradley.
Allotype 9  in copula with the type.
Type mounted in balsam in the collection of Cornell University.
This interesting cranefly is dedicated to the collector Dr. J. Chester Bradley of Cornell University to whom I am indebted for assistance and advice upon many subjects.
Tribe Limnophilini.
LIMNOPHILA Macquart.
Limnopkila Macquart Suit a Buffon vol.
1 Histoire Naturelle Dipteres p. 94 1834 i. Limnophila irrorata Johnson.
Limnophila irrorata Johnson Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History vol.
34 No.
5 pp.
127 128 PI.
16 fig.
17 1909.
This interesting species was described from the unique female found floating dead in a water receptacle at Riverton New Jersey and had apparently not been found since that time.
The fly was rediscovered in 1915 while the author was searching for Venus flytraps Dioncea muscipula Ell. near Jacksonville North Carolina.
The male sex is here described and the specimen made the allotype  Male.
 Length 7.67.8 mm.
 wing 77.3 mm.
Agrees closely with the female but the head a little more brownish petiole of cell R 2 of the wings very short not as long as the rm crossvein basal deflection of Cn x inserted beyond midlength of cell 1st M t .
Allotype  Camp Perry Onslow County North Carolina July 9 1915 Alexander.
Allotype in the collection of the author.
The following notes on the natural habitat of the species may be given At Camp Perry Onslow County North Carolina July 9 1915 on a small branch of the New River.
The flies occurred in a typical sweetgum swamp the dominant forest cover being the Liquidambar Ilex opaca Quercus michauxi Acer rubrum Fraxinus sp. with considerable Liriodendron and a little Pinus tceda growing in very wet to moist soil and the undergrowth was very rank and luxuriant consisting of the alldominant lizardstail Saururus cernuus from which plant the flies were swept other plants as Osmunda regalis Onoclea sensibilis Carpinus caroliniana and Callicarpa americana being common.
The following craneflies were associated with this species  Gonomyia sulphurella rare G. manca common Gnophomyia tristissima uncommon Epiphragma solatrix rare Limnophila macrocera uncommon L. tenuipes and luteipennis abundant Penthoptera albitarsis common Brachypremna dispellens abundant many being heavily infested with a species of Trombidium Oropeza subalbipes rare Tipula tricolor common T. perlongipes rare Bittacomorpha clavipes and Ptychoptera rufocincta common.
It should be here noted that there is a Polymoria irrorata Philippi 11 that in all probability is a Limnophila and prior to the present species.
This apparent status of Polymoria has been pointed out by the author in another paper.
12 Limnophila strepens sp.
n. Head light gray with short brown hairs thorax yellowish brown with a darker median stripe on the prsescutum legs brownishyellow the femora and tibiae not darkened at their apices.
Male.
 Length about 12 mm.
 wing 11.8 mm.
Rostrum and palpi dark brown.
Antennas short light brown the flagellar segments gradually narrowed and lengthened toward the tip of the organ verticils long black.
Head light gray with numerous rather short brown hairs inserted in blackish punctures.
Mesonotum light yellowish brown with a broad darker reddish brown median stripe lateral stripes indistinct lobes of the scutum reddish brown their posterior margin and the scutellum more yellowish postnotum pale reddish with a sparse gray bloom.
Pleura reddish brown with a sparse gray bloom.
Halteres pale the knobs darker at their tips.
Legs with the coxae reddish yellow trochanters dull yellow femora and tibiae brownish yellow throughout tarsi 11 Verh.
zool.bot.
Ges.
Wien.
vol.
15 p. 608 PI.
23 fig.
3 1865.
12 Proc.
U. S. National Museum vol.
44 pp.
481 490 and 547 1913.
brown.
Wings subhyaline costal region more yellowish apex of the wing broadly but indistinctly darkened stigma prominent dark brown a pale brown seam on the deflection of R ii .
Venation L's moderate in length somewhat angulated at its origin R 2  about equal to or a little shorter than that portion of R 2 before the radial crossvein r at the tip of Ri basal deflection of Ciii under the middle of cell Is
M 2 .
Abdominal tergites dull yellow unmarked sternites a little lighter yellow the eighth segment and the caudal portions of the seventh a little more brownish.
Habitat.
 Western United States.
Holotype d Marin County California Coll.
Hy.
Edwards No.
814.
Type in the collection of the American Museum of Natural History.
Related to flavipila Doane which has the hairs on the head longer and light yellow 7 in color the mesonotum darker brown the pleura light gray the tips of the femora and tibise dark brown wings with a more yellowish tinge especially near the costa R 2 z much shorter than that portion of R 2 before the radial crossvein.
In flavipila the head and first antennal segment are light gray not brown as described by Doane.
Limnophila edwardi sp.
n. Antennae elongated cell Mi of the wings absent thorax with dark stripes on the praescutum.
Male.
 Length 7.2 mm.
 wing 8 mm.
 antenna
about 5 mm.
Rostrum dull yellow the palpi brownish black.
Antennas dark brown the flagellar segments greatly elongated with outspreading pubescence.
Head dark brownish black with a sparse grayish bloom.
Thorax brownish yellow the praescutum with three broad dark brown stripes the middle one broadest confluent behind with the short lateral stripes scutum scutellum and postnotum dark brown.
Pleura brownish yellow.
Halteres pale the knobs darker brown.
Legs with the coxae trochanters and bases of the femora dull yellow remainder of the legs dark brown.
'Wings with a faint brownish tinge stigma elongateoval dark brown veins dark brown.
Venation Plate XXVII fig.
45 Rs elongate in a line with R 23  R 23 longer than the basal deflection of Cui crossvein r at the fork of R 23  cell 3i lacking.
Abdomen dark brown the hypopygium more yellowish.
Habitat.
 Northeastern United States.
Holotype cf Simmons Woods Gloversville Fulton County New York altitude 900 feet June 22 1916 Alexander.
This is the first Eastern species that has the antennae elongated and cell Mi of the wings lacking at the same time.
It bears a great resemblance to L. tenuipes Say a species with cell Mi present and the venational details slightly different.
The type was taken in a cold woods with decided Canadian floral tendencies in association with the following Tipulidse Dicranomyia pubipennis Ormosia monticola 0. rubella Erioptera stigmatica Gonomyia florens Limnophila toxoneura L. areolata L. alleni L. fuscovaria L. munda Adelphomyia ninuta Ula elegans Rhaphidolabis rubescens Tricyphona calcar Tipula oropezoides T. hermannia and T. monticola.
I dedicate this species to Thomas Edward the eminent Scotch naturalist the story of whose life and struggles 13 in the interests of natural science has always done much to encourage me in this work.
Limnophila sylvia sp.
n. Antennae short cell Mi of the wings absent thorax with dark stripes on the praescutum pleura without stripes.
Male.
 Length 55.5 mm.
 wing 6.57.6 mm.
Rostrum brownish yellow the palpi dark brown.
Antennae short the scapal segments dull yellow flagellum dark brown flagellar segments oval.
Head brown with a sparse grayish bloom.
Thorax dull light yellow the praescutum with three dark brown stripes the lateral stripes confluent with the median stripe scutum yellow with the lobes largely dark brown scutellum yellow postnotum brownish yellow.
Pleura yellow.
Halteres pale the knobs brownish.
Legs with the coxae and trochanters dull yellow femora dull yellow the tips darker brown tibiae yellowish brown tipped with brownish metatarsi brownish yellow the remainder of the tarsi dark brown.
Wings with a slight grayish tinge stigma rather indistinct brownish veins dark brown.
Venation Plate XXVII fig.
46 R23 rather elongated about equal to the basal deflection of Cui crossvein r at the tip of Ri and situated on R 2  deflection of R 4  5 arcuated nearer the wingroot than is the rra crossvein cell Mi absent basal deflection of Ciii variable in position at the fork of M just beyond the fork of M to about onethird the length of the cell 1st M s .
Abdominal tergites dark brown sternites dull brownish yellow 13 Life of a Scotch Naturalist Thomas Edward associate of the Linnsean Society by Samuel Smiles Harper  Bros. 1877.
the caudal margins a little brighter eighth and ninth sternites dark brown.
Habitat.
 Northeastern United States.
Holotype d  Mountain Lake Fulton County New York altitude 1600 feet June 13 1916 Alexander.
Paratopotypes 2 cf's.
Type in the collection of the author.
This species was associated with Erioptera nyctops and an account of the ecological conditions and associates will be found under the account of that species.
L. sylvia is quite distinct from any of the described species that lack cell Mi of the wings.
From the quadrata group it differs in having vein R 2 long not tending to be oblique deflection of R ib nearer the wingroot than is rm basal deflection of Cih nearer to the base of cell 1st Mi etc.
 from the lenta group it differs in the long sector from emmelina it differs in the petiolate cell R 2  and from noveboracensis it differs in having Rs almost in a line with R 2  3  the dark brown stripes on the praescutum etc.
POLYMERA Wiedemann.
Polymera Wiedemann Diptera exotica vol.
1 p. 40 1821.
Polymera georgiae Alexander.
Polymera georgice Alexander Psyche vol.
IS pp.
199 200 PL 16 fig.
5 1911.
This is the only known species of the genus as yet found within our limits and so far as known it is confined to the southeastern United States.
P. obscura Macquart of northern South America and Middle America ranges into Cuba and may appear in the Miami section of Florida.
P. geniculata Alexander of Porto Rico is also regional.
The distribution of Polymera georgice is as follows South Carolina Georgetown County South Island August 19 1915 Alexander.
Georgia Decatur County Spring Creek July 20 1912 Bradley Glynn County St. Simons Island April May 1911 Bradley the typelocality Charlton County Billy's Island Okefinokee Swamp June 20 1912 Bradley.
Florida Dade County Biscayne Bay Slosson.
The only specimen that I have ever seen alive was taken in a saltmarsh palmetto association on South Island South Carolina at the east end of the causeway between South and Cat Islands.
The association was a palmetto island surrounded on the west by a perfect sea of the salt rush J uncus Roemerianus.
The forest cover consisted of the dominant palmetto Sabal Palmetto Walt R.  S. live oak Quercus virginiana heavily draped with Spanish moss Tillandsia and the coast white cedar Chamcecyparis thuyoides.
The shrubbery consisted of a mixed growth of Myrica carolinensis common Ilex vomitoria several Callicarpa americana abundant and two shrubby Composites Iva frutescens and Borrichia frutescens r common.
The undergrowth from which the Tipulids were swept consisted of great beds of Polygonum punctatum with a more sparse admixture of spike grass Distichlis spicata Hydrocotyle umbellata and the Verbenaceous plants Lippia nodiflora and Verbena caroliniana.
u The Tipulidse of the above floral association showed a strong Floridian tendency the associates of Polymera being as follows Dicranomyia distans abundant D. floridana rare Teucholabis carolinensis rare Gonomyia Leiponeura puer rare G. Gonomyella slossonce several Erioptera Mesocyphona parva abundant and Brachypremna dispellens common.
Tribe Pedicini.
TRICYPHONA Zetterstedt.
1838.
Tricyphona Zetterstedt Insecta Lapponica Dittera p. Sol.
This genus like the tribe Pedicini in general has a northern distribution throughout the world.
There are seven species now known in the eastern United States which may be summarized as follows  Tricyphona inconstans Osten Sacken.
Plate XXVIII.
fig.
47.
Canadian and TransitionalCanadian zones of the eastern United States and Canada.
One of our commonest and bestknown craneflies ranging from Ontario Quebec and Newfoundland south in the mountains to Georgia and west to Michigan.
It is also recorded from Europe but a very careful comparison with abundant material and a critical study of the male hypopygium must be made before these records can.be finally accepted.
The fly is abundant in swamps and low swales.
In New York and New England it is on the wing from May 12 to September 28 while in the vicinity of Washington it appears even earlier Great Falls Virginia April 20 1913 Knab.
Tricyphona calcar Osten Sacken.
Plate XXVIII fig.
48.
Canadian lifezone of northeastern America ranging from the Hudsons Bay region Ontario and Quebec south in the mountains 14 I am indebted to Mr. W. L. McAtee of the United States Biological Survey for his kindness in determining many of the abovelisted plants.
to North Carolina.
It is a species of low swampy areas though usually more wooded than that frequented by inconstans.
In NewYork and New England it flies from May 22 to October 1 being abundant in late May and early June reappearing the latter half of July and being common throughout August and early September.
The late summer specimens probably represent a new species the females having the wings very reduced in size.
Tricyphona auripennis Osten Sacken.
Plate XXVIII fig.
49.
Canadian lifezone of the northeastern United States known only from New Hampshire Massachusetts the typelocality and New York.
It flies in June.
The only specimens ever seen alive by the author occurred at Indian Castle Herkimer County New York June 10 to 13 1915 they were found sitting motionless on the perpendicular face of a small cliff lurking in small crevices of the rock.
The cliff is low of Utica shale completely saturated by percolating water and wellshaded by large hemlocks arbor vitae.
yellow birch mountain maple Cornus circinata etc. and with a sparse vegetation of Impatiens biflora Geranium Robertianum Collinsonia canadensis Cystopteris bulbifera and Equisetum arvense.
Tricyphona hyperborea Osten Sacken.
Plate XXVIII fig.
50.
A fly of the Hudsonian and possibly the Canadian lifezones of northeastern America and still very rare in collections.
It was described from Labrador and a few specimens have been taken on Mt.
Washington New Hampshire these specimens are in the collections of the Boston Society of Natural History and the United States National Museum.
Tricyphona katahdin Alexander.
Plate XXVIII fig.
51.
Canadian lifezone of the northeastern United States a late summer species flying during the latter half of August.
Tricyphona vernalis Osten Sacker.
Plate XXVIII fig.
52.
Canadian and CanadianTransitional zones of the northeastern United States.
One of our earlyflying species though appearing later as a rule than paludicola.
It ranges from Maine and New Hampshire south in the mountains to Georgia and is found along small streams temporary and permanent where the water runs rapidly.
The flies may be swept from vegetation or are found in small swarms of eight to ten individuals near the water.
In New York and New England it is on the wing in late May abundant in June and persisting into July.
Further south it flies in April or even the last of March reappearing in late September.
Trioyphona paludicola sp.
n. Plate XXVIII fig.
53.
CanadianTransitional lifezone of the northeastern United States as yet known only from New York.
It flies in early spring May 720 and is found in swampy stagnant localities.
Tricyphona paludicola sp.
n. Antenna
dark brown throughout head and thorax grayish brown the mesonotal prsescutum with three dark brown stripes the middle one split by a broad line of the groundcolor abdomen brown the tergites uniform in color wings almost unicolorous the dark markings reduced to punctiform dots and narrow seams.
Male.
 Length 7.68 mm.
 wing 8.68.7 mm.
Female.
 Length 10.510.9 mm.
 wing 10.510.8 mm.
Rostrum and palpi dark brown.
Antennae black the flagellar segments shortened and gradually narrowed.
Head grayish brown.
Mesonotal prsescutum pale grayish brown with three dark brown stripes the middle stripe very broad and more or less bisected by a narrow median vitta of the groundcolor lateral stripes short narrow scutum gray the lobes with a rounded dark brown spot scutellum and postnotum light gray.
Pleura light gray the dorsopleural membranes pale brown.
Halteres light brown the knobs dark brown.
Legs with the coxae reddish gray pruinose  trochanters brownish yellow femora dark brown the fore pair with the basal quarter a little brightened middle pair with the basal third hind pair with about the basal half brightened tibia and tarsi dark brown.
Wings grayish subhyaline the costal cells more suffused brownish yellow tiny dark brown dots at Sc 2  origin of Rs tip of Sc h crossvein r above the fork of Rs crossvein rm and a narrow seam along the basal deflection of Cur paler gray clouds underneath the tip of R 2 z and near the tip of 2nd A veins dark brown Sc more yellowish.
Venation Plate XXVIII fig.
53 distance between Sc 2 and the origin of the sector about equal to the sector alone Rs angulated and often spurred at origin r at the tip of Ri distance between the fork of Rs and crossvein rm about equal to that crossvein petiole of cell  3 a little longer than rm cell 1st M 2 closed long and narrow cell Mi present usually longer than its petiole crossvein mcu present or barely obliterated by the fusion of the adjacent veins.
Abdominal tergites dark grayish brown sternites similar with the basal segments indistinctly ringed with paler hypopygium concolorous with the rest of the abdomen valves of the ovipositor brownish yellow.
Habitat.
 Northeastern United States.
Holotype d McLean Tompkins County New York May 13 1916 Alexander.
Allotype 
 with the type.
Paratopotypes 24 tf's 1 9  1 d 1  1 9  on May 20 1916 P. A. Claassen.
The type is in the collection of the author Mr. Claassen has deposited his paratypes in the collection of the University of Kansas.
As is very frequent in this genus of flies abnormalities of the wingvenation often occur one male specimen has cell 1st M 2 open by the atrophy of the median crossvein in both wings four other males in the series show adventitious crossveins or spurs in various cells of the wings.
When Osten Sacken described Tricyphona vernalis 15 he had only a male and a female specimen from Washington D. C taken in April these showing the pale antenna
bases cingulated abdomen and heavily patterned wings that are characteristic of vernalis.
The specimens from the White Mountains New Hampshire were added in the Monographs p. 271.
I am greatly indebted to Mr. C. W. Johnson for his kindness in examining the types of vernalis and making notes upon them.
Abundant material that I have determined as vernalis agree in all details with Osten Sacken's descriptions except that the capillary median ground vitta on the prsescutum is less distinct than the description implies.
The gray or brownish gray species of this section of Tricyphona may be separated by the following key 1.
Scape of the antennae yellowish or brownish yellow the flagelluin much darker dark brown abdominal tergites brown the margins of the segments pale producing a cingulated appearance wings with large rounded clouds at the tips of the longitudinal veins and along the crossveins vernalis Osten Sacken.
Scape of the antennae dark brown concolorous with the flagellum abdominal tergites brown unbanded wings with the pattern almost obsolete reduced to tiny dots and seams paludicola sp.
n. The following ecological notes on Tricyphona paludicola are taken from my field notes dated May 13 1916 1011 A.M. at the McLean bogs where we were engaged in making a biological survey of the region under the personal direction of Dr. James G. Needham.
15 Proceedings of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia pp.
291 292 1861 as Amalopis.
36 The species occurs in the Alnus association a short distance east of Round Pond in company with Tipula dejecta Walker the only other cranefly on the wing at this date and hour.
The water is stagnant or nearly so with the little pools filled with an algal growth kindly determined for me by Dr. J. R. Schramm of Cornell University as being near Microspora and Tribonema abundant Edegonium sp.
and Spirogyra sp. the latter conjugating laterally and some Mougeotia Vaucheria etc. with many Diatoms in addition to these there is a dense growth of young seedlings of Impatiens hi flora.
The mud is so soft that it is necessary to wade kneedeep in order to explore this region.
There is still ice down underneath the stratum and the Alnus is just coming into leaf allowing the sun to light up the ground underneath.
The dominant herbaceous plants at this time were Carex aquatilis Saxifraga pennsylvanica with the plants in bud and the stalks not more than six to nine inches high and Caltha palustris in full flower.
There is no doubt but that the Tipula and the present species both emerged from the stagnant pools formed in the marsh adjoiningGrassy Creek.
Both species of craneflies were common but the Tipula was more in evidence by its larger size and habit of flying.
The Tricyphona was usually found resting on the saxifrage or on the inclined side of alder limbs the males often fluttering about from place to place a short distance above the ground never very rapidly.
The females were found resting on the alder stems inactive and the males were presumably searching for them.
In the afternoon when the warmth of the sun made itself felt none of the Tricyphona and only a few of the Tipula were in evidence in this haunt their places having been taken by dense swarms of Chironomiclae and a very few of the cranefly Erioptera septemtrionis Osten Sacken.
On May 20 Mr. P. A. Claassen found a male and a female in his tenttraps set near this place proving that the immature stages are spent in the mud beneath.
RHAPHIDOLABIS Osten Sacken.
Rhaphidolabis Osten Sacken Monographs of the Diptera of North America pt 4 p. 284 1869.
Subgenus RHAPHIDOLABINA subgen.
n. Similar to Rhaphidolabis s. s. differing as follows Antennae 15segmented the first eight segments of the flagellum normal cylindrical bearing strong hairs at about midlength these alternating in their arrangement being on the same face on the even segments the ninth and eleventh segments are smaller and lie between the long verticillate tenth and twelfth segments thirteenth segment of the fiagellum long sigmoid bearing three long hairs at the apex.
Wings with the median crossvein present connecting M l2 with .1..
Type of the subgenus Rhaphidolabis flaveola Osten Sacken.
The curious pallid fly that I have deemed best to separate from the other species of the genus is anomalous in many respects and may eventually be placed nearer to Tricyphona where indeed it was provisionally assigned by Needham.
16 It is certainly more distinct from Rhaphidolabis than is Plectromyia which has herein been considered to have subgeneric value.
Under these circumstances it may be better to call the genus Plectromyia that name having pagepriority over Rhaphidolabis but for the present the latter name has been retained.
The American species of the genus may be separated by the following key 1.
Antennse 15segmented crossvein m present subgenus Rhaphidolabina.
Northeastern United States.
flaveola Osten Sacken.
Antennse 13segmented crossvein m absent 2 2.
Cell Mi absent subgenus Plectromyia.
Northeastern United States.
modesta Osten Sacken.
Cell Mi present subgenus Rhaphidolabis 3 3.
Cell Rz petiolate 4 Cell R 2 sessile 6 4.
Wings whitish hyaline with a dark brown oval stigma.
Eastern Rocky Mountain region.
neomexicana Alexander.
Wings without a clearly denned dark brown stigma 5 5.
Antennse of the male elongated Rs long straight the distance between Sc 2 and the origin of the sector being less than the length of the sector.
Western United States.
polymeroides Alexander.
Antennse of the male short Rs short arcuated the distance between Sc 2 and the origin of the sector about two times the length of the sector.
Eastern United States.
tenuipes Osten Sacken.
6.
Coloration grayish brown the prsescutum with three dark brown stripes abdomen dark brown with paler caudal margins to the segments wings very pale brown the radial sector very short arcuated or angulated.
Northeastern United States.
cayuga sp.
n. 16 Twentythird Report of the New York State Entomologist PL 25 fig.
3 1907. as Amalopis.
Coloration reddish brown the prsescutum with three indistinct stripes abdomen yellowish brown the hypopygium bright yellow wings nearly hyaline the radial sector somewhat elongated arcuated.
Northeastern United States.
rubescens sp.
n. The following general statements may be made regarding these species  Rhaphidolabis Rhaphidolabina flaveola Osten Sacken.
Plate XXVIII fig.
54.
Canadian lifezone of the northeastern United States and eastern Canada Osten Sacken's Maryland type being the most southern record.
It is abundant from Ontario and Maine south to Maryland.
In New York and New England it flies from May 30 to September 21 being most numerous in June.
It may be looked for in cold damp shady places such as along mountain streams and similar situations.
Rhaphidolabis Plectromyiaj modesta Osten Sacken.
Plate XXVIII fig.
55.
Canadian lifezone of the northeastern United States known only from the White Mountains New Hampshire the typelocality and the southern Adirondack Mountains New York.
It is found along small mountain streams flying in June.
Rhaphidolabis Rhaphidolabis neomexicana Alexander.
Rocky Mountain region known from two stations in Colorado and one in New Mexico.
Rhaphidolabis Rhaphidolabis polymeroides Alexander.
Known only from the typelocality Eureka Humboldt County California May 22 1903 H. S. Barber.
Rhaphidolabis Rhaphidolabis tenuipes Osten Sacken.
Plate XXVIII fig.
56.
Canadian and CanadianTransitional lifezones of the eastern United States from Maine to Georgia flying in April and May in the south a little later in the north and reappearing in late summer.
Rhaphidolabis Rhaphidolabis cayuga sp.
n. Plate XXVIII fig.
57.
CanadianTransitional zones of the northeastern United States.
This is the earliest species of the genus in the north appearing on the wing in April and early May reappearing in August.
In New York it comes with the very first of the early spring craneflies such as Ormosia nubila 0. innocens Limnophila brevifurca Tipula collaris T. dejecta etc.
Rhaphidolabis Rhaphidolabis rubescens sp.
n. Plate XXVIII fig.
58.
Canadian lifezone of the northeastern United States appearing on the wing a little later than does the last the first half of June.
It is characteristic of cold Canadian woods near running water.
It is probable that like the Lastnamed species ii reappears in August as described under R. tenuipes such species presumably 1 eing doublebrooded.
Rhaphidolabis Rhaphidolabis cayuga Bp.
d. Head brownish gray thorax grayish brown with three dark brown stripes abdomen dark brown the segments narrowly ringed with paler wings palebrown cell R 2 sessile Rs very short arcuated or angulated cell 1st M 2 open by the atrophy of the median crossvein cell Mi short.
Male.
 Length 55.4 mm.
 wing 6.36.6 mm.
I'  male.
 Length 6.6 mm.
 wing 7.7 mm.
Rostrum and palpi dark brown.
Antennae dark brown the flagellar segments shortcylindrical.
Head brownish gray.
Mesonotum grayish brown the praescutum with three dark brown stripes the middle stripe broadest ending before the suture lateral stripes narrow and less distinct scutum light brown the lobes largely dark brown scutellum and postnotum dark with a heavy gray bloom.
Pleura dark brown with a gray bloom.
Halteres light yellow the knobs dark brown.
Legs with the coxae and trochanters dark brown femora similar a little paler at the extreme base tibiae and tarsi dark brown.
Wings with a light brown tinge stigma a little darker but poorly defined veins dark brown.
Venation Plate XXVIII fig.
57  Sc long Sc 2 far removed from its tip  distance between Sc 2 and the origin of Rs about twice the length of the sector Rs very short arcuated angulated or sometimes spurred cell Mi short and w r eak tending to be evanescent less than onehalf the length of cell M s .
Abdominal segments dark browm the caudal margins of the terminal segments narrowly ringed with paler hypopygium brownish yellow.
Habitat.
 Northeastern United States.
Holotype d McLean Tompkins County New York May 7.
1916 Alexander.
Allotype 9  with the type.
Paratopotypes 15 cf 9  paratype 1 cf near Johnstown Fulton County New York August 19 1916 Alexander.
Type in the collection of the author.
This is the species figured by Needham under the name tenuipes 17 the real tenuipes being shown in the same work Plate 19 fig.
2.
Twentythird Report of the New York State Entomologist PL 13 fig.
1 1907.
The types occurred rather abundantly along a small woodland stream and were found commonly resting on the trunks of sugar maples swarming out into the air at short intervals.
The species occurred with the following cranefly associates  Ormosia innocens 0. nubila 0. rubella Erioptera septemtrionis Limnophila brevifurca Adelphomyia ninuta Ula elegans Pedicia conterminata and Tipula dejecta.
Rhaphidolabis Rhaphidolabis rubescens sp.
n. Head light silvery gray mesonotum reddish sparsely gray pruinose with three indistinct brown stripes abdomen yellowish brown the hypopygium bright yellow wings nearly hyaline cell R 2 sessile Rs arcuated rather elongate cell 1st M 2 open by the atrophy of m cell Mi moderate.
Male.
 Length 5.35.5 mm.
 wing 6.36.6 mm.
Female.
 Length 5.55.6 mm.
 wing 6.57 mm.
Rostrum and palpi dark brown.
Antennae with the basal segments brown sparsely grayish pruinose praescutum with three indistinct brown stripes lateral stripes less evident median stripe narrowed behind and becoming indistinct at the suture scutum with the lobes brownish gray the median area dull reddish yellow scutellum pale brownish yellow gray pruinose postnotum light reddish with a gray bloom.
Pleura light reddish with a sparse gray bloom.
Halteres pale the knobs brown.
Legs with the coxae and trochanters light brownish yellow femora and tibiae brownish yellow the latter a little darkened towards their tips tarsi brown.
Wings nearly hyaline stigma very pale to indistinct veins dark brown.
Venation Plate XXVIII fig.
58 Sc long ending at nearly midlength of R 2  distance between Sc 2 and the origin of the sector about twice the length of the latter Rs rather long strongly arcuated but not angulated cell R 2 sessile sometimes broadly sessile crossvein r at the tip of Ri cell 1st M 2 open by the atrophy of m cell M x present about onehalf as deep as cell M.
Abdomen pale yellowish brown the lateral margins more yellowish the hypopygium bright yellow.
Habitat.
 Northeastern United States.
Holotype d  Simmons woods Gloversville Fulton County New York altitude 900 feet June 22 1916 Alexander.
Allotype 9  topotypic June 12 1916.
Paratopotypes 20  9  June 9 1914 June 12 to 22 1916.
Type in the collection of the author.
The ecological conditions under which this species lives have been discu id in the second part of this series of papers 18 under the account of Tipula cayuga Alexander.
A less detailed notice of the associates taken with the type will be found in the present paper under the account of Limnophila edwardi.
Family PTYCHOPTERLLX2.
BITTACOMORPHA Westwood.
Bittacomorpha Westwood London and Edinburgh Philosophical Magazine and Journal of Science vol.
i p. 281 1S35.
Subgenus BITTACOMORPHELLA subgcn.
n. Agrees with Bittacomorpha s. s. but the apical cells of the wings with a sparse strong pubescence including the tip of cell Sc all of 2nd Ri tips of R 3  R t  R and 2nd M in B. sackeni Roder the pubescence is even more extensive including the end of cell C first Ri all of cell R 4  almost the outer half of cells R 3 and R and the ends of 2nd M and Cur metatarsi of the legs not swollen.
A correlated character is the lack of a white ring near the base of the metatarsi.
Type of the subgenus Bittacomorpha jonesi Johnson.
There are four species of this genus now r known two belonging to each subgenus and their general distribution seasonal and geographical may be summarized as follows Bittacomorpha Bittacomorpha clavipes Fabricius.
The Phantom Cranefly is one of our commonest and bestknown species.
It is a fly of the CanadianTransitional to the Austral zones and has a wide range throughout America east of the Rockies from Ontario Quebec New Brunswick Nova Scotia and Newfoundland south to Florida west to Manitoba and South Dakota.
In New York and New England it is on the wing from May 17 to September 23 being common throughout the summer in the southern part of its range it appears as early as February.
The flies are abundant in low r  wet swales swamps and along lakes and ponds.
The curious rustred lava with an extensile breathing tube is as remarkable as the adult fly.
Bittacomorpha Bittacomorpha occidentalis Aldrich.
Western United States ranging from Washington to California the latter records being for midMay.
Bittacomorpha Bittacomorphella jonesi Johnson.
A fly of the Canadian lifezone of the northeastern United States 18 Proceedings of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelihia p. 4S September 1915. ranging from Maine New Hampshire and Vermont south in the mountains to Mt.
Toxoway North Carolina the typelocality.
In New York and New England it flies from June 11 to August 31 being quite numerous in suitable localities throughout the latter half of June and all of July.
It is found in cool shady spots usually near running water or springs being very often found in small dark ravines or along shaded runs.
They frequently lurk under dark culverts after the fashion of Dolichopeza and Oropeza.
Bittacomorpha Bittacomorphella sackenii Roder.
Northwestern United States and western Canada ranging from Queen Charlotte Isle British Columbia south to California and east to Colorado.
The records indicate that the insect is on the wing in June and early July.
The species of Bittacomorpha may be separated by the following key 1.
Wings with the apical cells without a strong pubescence metatarsi swollen and white basally.
Subgen.
Bittacomorpha.
2 Wings with the apical cells with a sparse strong pubescence metatarsi not swollen and without white near the base.
Subgen.
Bittacomorphella.
3 2.
Dorsum of thorax deep velvety black with a white median line cell Ra of the wings onethird as long as R b .
Eastern North America.
clavipes Fabricius.
19 Dorsum of thorax shiny black without a white median line cell Ri of the wings onehalf as long as R.
Western United States.
occidentalis Aldrich.
20 3.
Tibia
and metatarsi dark brownish black without white except the extreme tip of the latter in some specimens segments two and three of the tarsi pure white.
Western North America.
sackenii Roder.
21 Tibiae black with a broad white band beyond the base metatarsi with more or less white at the tip broadest on the fore legs narrowest on the hind legs segments two and three of the tarsi pure white.
Northeastern United States.
jonesi Johnson.
22 Explanation of Plates XXV to XXXI.
Plate XXV.
 Fig.
1.
 Wing of Geranomyia canadensis West wood.
Fig.
2.
 Wing of G. distincta Doane.
Fig.
3.
 Wing of G. intermedia Walker.
Fig.
4.
 Wing of G. diversa Osten Sacken.
Fig.
5.
 Wing of G. tibialis Loew.
19 Tipula clavipes Fabricius Spec.
Insect. vol.
2 p. 404 1781.
20 Bittacomorpha occidentalis Aldrich Psyche vol.
7 p. 201 1895.
21 Bittacomorpha sackenii Roder Wien.
Entom.
Zeit. p. 230 1890.
22 Bittacomorpha jonesi Johnson Psyche vol.
12 pp.
75 76 1905.
Fig.
.
 Wing of G. lachrymalis Alexander.
Fig.
7.
Wing of G. rostrata Saj .
Fig.
8.
Wing of G. ibis sp.
a.
Fig.
9.
Wing of G. insignia Loew.
Fig.
10.
Wing of Dicranoptycha germana Osten Sacken.
Fig.
11.
 Wing nf I sobrina ten Sacken.
Fig.
L2.
Winy nt' l.
winnemana sp.
n. Fig.
13.
 Wing of Rhamphidia flavipes Macquart.
Fig.
14.
 Wing of R. mainensis sp.
n. Fig.
1.
Wing of Teuckolabis complexa Osten Sacken.
Fig.
Hi.
 Wing of T. lucida Alexander.
Plate XXVI.
Fig.
17.
 Wins of Gonomyia Leiponeura aUxanderi Johnson.
Fig.
IS.
 Wing of G. L. cinerea Doane.
Fig.
19.
Wing of G. L. sacandaga Alexander.
Fig.
20.
 Wing of G. L. pleuralis Williston.
Fig.
21.
 Wing of G. L. puer Alexander.
Fig.
22.Wing of G. L. manca Osten Sacken.
Fig.
23.
 Wing of G. Gonomyia mathesoni Alexander.
Fig.
24.
 Wing of G. G. blanda Osten Sacken.
Fig.
25.
 Wing of G. G. calif ornica Alexander.
Fig.
26.
 Wing of G.
.
svlphurella Osten Sacken.
Fig.
27.
 Wing of G. G. flavibasis Alexander.
Fig.
28. Wing of G. G. florens Alexander.
Fig.
29.
 Wing of G. G. cognatella Osten Sacken.
Fig.
30.
 Wing of G. G. noueboracensis Alexander.
Fig.
31.
 Wing of G. G. filicauda Alexander.
Fig.
32.
 Wing of G. G. virgata Doane.
Fig.
33.
 Wing of G. G. subcinerea Osten Sacken.
Plate XXVII. Fig.
34.
 Wing of Erioptera Erioptera laticeps sp.
n. Fig.
35.
 Wing of E. Mesocyphona tantilla sp.
n. Fig.
36.
 Wing of E. Empeda nyctops sp.
n. Fig.
37.
 Wing of Molophilus fultonensis sp.
n. Fig.
38.
 Wing of M. novaccesariensis sp.
n. Fig.
39.
 Wing of M. ursinus Osten Sacken.
Fig.
40.
 Wing of Empedomorpha empedoides Alexander d.
Fig.
41.
 Wing of Rhabdomaslix Sacandaga nionticola sp.
n. Fig.
42.
 Wing of R. S. caudata Lundbeck.
Fig.
43.
 Wing of R. S. flava Alexander.
Fig.
44.
 Wing of Pterochionea bradleyi sp.
n. Fig.
45.
 Wing of Limnophila edwardi sp.
n. Fig.
46.
 Wing of L. sylvia sp.
n. Plate XXVIII.
 Fig.
47.
 Wing of Tricyphona inconstans Osten Sacken.
Fig.
48.
 Wing of T. calcar Osten Sacken.
Fig.
49.
 Wing of T. auripennis Osten Sacken.
Fig.
50.
 Wing of T. hyperborea Osten Sacken.
Fig.
51.
 Wing of T. katahdin Alexander.
Fig.
52.
 Wing of T. vernalis Osten Sacken.
Fig.
53.
 Wing of T. paludicola sp.
n. Fig.
54.
 Wing of Rhaphidolabis Rhaphidolabina flaveola Osten Sacken.
Fig.
55.
 Wing of R. Plectromyia modesta Osten Sacken.
Fig.
56.
 Wing of R. Rhaphidolabis tenuipes Osten Sacken.
Fig.
57.
 Wing of R. R. cayuga sp.
n. Fig.
58.
 Wing of R. R. rubescens sp.
n. Plate XXIX.
 Fig.
59.
 Hypopygium of Gonomyia Leiponeura alexanderi dorsal aspect of the pleural appendages d  dorsal appendage v  ventral appendage.
Fig.
60.
 Hypopygium of G. L. helophila Alexander dorsal aspectTof the pleural appendages lettering as in Fig.
59.
Fig.
61.
 Hypopygium of G. L. alexanderi ventral aspect of the pleural appendages lettering as in Fig.
59.
Fig.
62.
 Hypopygium of G. L. cinerea ventral aspect of the pleural appendages lettering as in Fig.
59.
Fig.
63.
 Hypopygium of G. L. puer dorsal aspect of right pleurite p.gd.
 penisguard.
Fig.
64.
 Hypopygium of G. L. manca dorsal aspect of right pleurite lettering as in Fig.
63.
Fig.
65.
 Hypopygium of G. L. manca lateral aspect lettering as in Fig.
63.
Fig.
66.
 Hypopygium of G. Gonomyia californica dorsal aspect of the right pleurite lettering as in Figs.
59 and 63.
Fig.
67.
 Hypopygium of G. G. californica ventral aspect lettering as in Figs.
59 and 63.
Fig.
68.
 Hypopygium of G. G. blanda dorsal aspect of the right pleurite  lettering as in Fig.
59.
Fig.
69.
 Hypopygium of G. G. blanda ventral aspect of the ventral appendage of the pleurite.
Fig.
70.
 Hypopygium of G. G. svlphurella dorsal aspect of the right pleurite.
Fig.
71.
 Hypopygium of G. G. florens dorsal aspect of the right pleurite k  dorsal fleshy knob d  first or dorsal appendage 2  second pleural appendage 3  third or ventral pleural appendage.
Fig.
72.
 Hypopygium of G. G. florens lateral aspect of the penisguard.
Fig.
73.
 Hypopygium of G. G. cognatella lateral aspect of the penisguard.
Fig.
74.
 Hypopygium of G. G. cognatella dorsal aspect of the right pleurite lettering as in Fig.
71.
Fig.
75.
 Hypopygium of G. G. cognatella lateral aspect of the pleurite lettering as in Fig.
71.
Plate XXX.
 Fig.
76.
 Hypopygium of Gonomyia Gonomyia flavibasis dorsolateral aspect.
Fig.
77.
 Hypopygium of G. G. flavibasis ventral aspect of the pleural appendages.
Fig.
78.
 Hypopygium of G. G. flavibasis apex of the ventral appendages.
Fig.
79.
 Hypopygium of G. G. noveboracensis pleural appendages ventral aspect.
Fig.
80.
 Hypopygium of G. G. noveboracensis ventral aspect of the left side of the penisguard and the gonapophyses  a b c  horns of the fused cylinder.
Fig.
81.
 Hypopygium of G. G. filicauda dorsal aspect of the right pleurite d  dorsal pleural appendage v  ventral pleural appendage.
Fig.
82.
 Hypopygium of G. G. filicauda lateral aspect of the penisguard.
Fig.
83.
 Hypopygium of G. G. subcinerea dorsal aspect of the right pleurite lettering as in Fig.
81.
Fig.
84.
 Hypopygium of G. G. subcinerea ventral aspect of the left side of the penisguard.
Fig.
85.
 Hypopygium of G. G. subcinerea dorsal pleural appendage.
Fig.
86.
 Hypopygium of G. G. cequalis Alexander dorsal aspect of the right pleurite lettering as in Fig.
81 a.t.  anal tube.
Fig.
87.
 Hypopygium of G. G. virgata dorsal aspect of the right pleurite lettering as in Fig.
81 2  second pleural appendage.
Fig.
88.
 Hypopygium of G. G. unicolor Alexander ventral aspect of the penisguard and the gonapophyses p.gd.
 penisguard a  subtending arm g gonapophyse.
Fig.
89.
 Hypopygium of G. G. unicolor dorsal aspect of the right pleurite lettering as in Fig.
81.
Fig.
90.
 Hypopygium of G. G. mexicana Alexander ventral aspect of the penisguard lettering as in Fig.
88.
Fig.
91.
 Hypopygium of G. G. mexicana dorsal aspect of the right pleurite lettering as in Figs.
81 and 87.
PLATE XXV.
ALEXANDER CRANEFLIES.
PLATE XXVI.
ALEXANDER CRANEFLIES.
PLATE X ALEXANDER CRANEFLIES.
PLATE XXVIII.
52 55 ALEXANDER CRANEFLIES.
PLATE XXX.
ALEXANDER CRANEFLIES.
PLATE XXXI.
ALEXANDER CRANEFLIES.
plate  ALEXANDER CRANEFLIES.
Plate XXXI. Fig.
92.
Habit of Pterochionca bradleyi with the wings and middle leg removed.
Fig.
93.
Antenna of Pterochionea bradleyi.
Fig.
94.
 Hypopygium of Pterochionea bradleyi dorsal aspect of the right pleurite.
Fig.
95.
 Hypopygium of Molophilus fultonensis ventral aspect of the ventral pleural hook.
1'ii.
 .H'.
 Hypopygium of M. fultonensis lateral aspect.
pj 97. Hypopygium of Erioptera laticeps dorsal aspect 9t  ninth tergite pi  ninth pleurite.
Fig.
98. Hypopygium of E. nyctops dorsal aspect a b c  pleural appendages.
