Mollusca FROM CENTRAL AMERICA AND MEXICO.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
Most of the forms described herein were collected by Mr. A.
A. Hinkley during two visits to Guatemala.
A few are added from various other localities collected by Mr. S. N. Rhoads and others.
With the exception of Neritilia a peculiar Neritid mollusk with a more specialized radula than others of its family the species belong to genera already well represented in Mexico and Central America.
Salasiella hinkleyi n. sp.
Fig.
2.
The shell is cylindric with tapering spire glossy finely arcuately striate with numerous irregularly spaced grooves indicating former peristomes.
First three whorls rather slowly widening after which the suture descends more rapidly oblique to the previous whorls each succeeding whorl at least double the width of that above it.
The last whorl is flattened laterally.
Aperture half the length of the shell.
Outer lip arching very strongly forward in the middle.
Columella very deeply concave above the truncation.
Length 8.5 diam.
3 mm.
 5 whorls.
Mountain side near the Tamosopo Sugar Company's place San Luis Potosi.
Also at El Abra.
This species changes so much with age that without a good series one would not readily connect the halfgrown and the mature stages.
After the third whorl the suture descends very rapidly and the aperture becomes shorter in comparison with the total length.
Moreover the deep arcuate grooves which characterize the fully adult shell are far weaker and less numerous in specimens of 6 mm.
length or smaller.
It is closely related to S. joaquinoe Strebel but adult specimens of the same length have a half whorl more and a shorter aperture.
Probably the specimens from Diente near Monterey Nuevo Leon referred to joaquince are immature S. hi7iJdeyi.
16 specimens were taken at El Abra the largest measuring length 6 diam.
2 mm.
The aperture is decidedly over half the total length at this stage.
It is quite possible that the largest shell from the type locality fig.
2 is an exceptionally large and old individual.
1919.
213 A review of the species of Salasiella known up to 1907 was given in the Manual of Conchology XIX pp.
170174.
Since that time S. hrowni Pils. of the Canal Zone has been described.
Fig.
1.
Fig.
2.
Salasiella Salasiella gimtemalensis
hinkleyi.
Fig.
3.
Leptinaria livingstonensis Hinkley.
Salasiella guatemalensis n. sp.
Fig.
1.
The shell is oblong pale yellowish glossy with fine unequal growthripples.
Spire rather short conic the apex obtuse.
Whorls convex the third hardly wider than the second the rest rather rapidly widening the last somewhat compressed laterally.
Aperture more than half the total length.
Outer lip strongly arching forward.
Columella concave as usual.
Length 9.9 diam.
4 length of aperture 5.6 mm.
 5 whorls.
Gualan Guatemala S. N. Rhoads.
Type and paratypes.
No.
114838 A. N. S. P. This species stands near S. hrowni of the Canal Zone but is stouter with shorter spire.
A few specimens not fully mature were taken by Mr. Hinkley at Jocolo.
Spiraxis livingstonensis n. sp.
PI.
XI fig.
1.
The shell is subulate its diameter contained 3.7 times in the length very pale yellow composed of 91 rather strongly convex whorls.
First 2 whorls are smooth following whorls sculptured with axial vertical ribs less than half as wide as their intervals about 44 on the penultimate whorl.
The upper ends of the ribs project crenulating the suture.
Aperture ovate columella a little thickened moderately sigmoid.
Length 9.25 diam.
2.5 aperture 2.3 mm.
Mountains west of Livingston Guatemala A.
A. Hinkley.
This species is related to S. stdciferus but it has less crowded thinner ribs.
Spiraxis longior n. sp.
PI.
XI fig.
2.
The shell is subulate very slender the diameter contained about 3.8 times in the length composed of 9 moderately convex whorls of which the first 2 are smooth apex obtuse subsequent whorls sculptured with axial vertical ribs which are just perceptibly sinuous almost straight and nearly as wide as their intervals.
There are about 35 ribs on the penultimate whorl.
On the last third of the last whorl the ribs become a little weaker in fully adult shells.
Aperture ovate.
Columella thin weakly sinuous.
Length 8 diam.
2.1 length of aperture 2 mm.
Mountains west of Livingston Guatemala A.
A. Hinkley.
 A very slender form with small aperture only onefourth the length of the shell.
Pseudosubulina martensiana n. sp.
PI.
XI fig.
3.
The shell is slender a little attenuated near the obtuse apex corneousbuff composed of 9 whorls the first three strongly convex the convexity diminishing subsequently the later wiiorls being flattened convex only near the sutures.
The initial f whorl projects and is smooth the next two whorls are of about equal diameter with sculpture of widely spaced axial ribs on subsequent whorls the ribs are close rounded and as wide as their intervals 40 standing on the penultimate whorl.
On the last whorl the ribs disappear on the base which is smooth.
Apertures rhombic columella moderately concave deeply excised at the base.
Length 11 diam.
3 length of aperture 3 mm.
Mountains west of Livingston Guatemala A.
A. Hinkley.
In the related P. lirifera Morel the columella is represented as deeply concave and there are more smooth whorls at the summit.
Whether the shell described and figured as P. lirifera by Professor von Martens is really the species of Morelet is not quite certain.
Guppya elegantula n. sp.
Pig.
4.
The shell is narrowly perforate pyramidal resembling G. elegans Strebel in form pale cinnamon fading at the summit.
Surface above the periphery having a microscopic sculpture of fine close nearly vertical striae cut by equally close spiral lines but the latter are not everywhere developed the base glossy with engraved spirals only far more widely spaced than on the upper surface.
Outlines of the spire are slightly convex.
Whorls quite convex the last rounded peripherally in the adult stage angular in the young.
Aperture semilunar not very wide.
Alt.
3.2 diam.
3.3 mm.
 6 whorls.
State of Vera Cruz Orizaba 500 ft. above the town Heilprin exped..
San Luis Potosi canyon and falls below Valles Hinkley type loc.
Nuevo Leon Diente near Monterey S. N. Rhoads.
Tamaulipas in a canyon 4 miles west of Victoria at about 3000 ft. S. N.
Rhoads.
This is the species which was formerly identified as G. elegans Strebel by the writer.
It is nearer that than to any other described species of the region but on account of the smaller size in some hundreds of specimens the identification was not satisfactory.
Specimens of the real elegans have now turned up found in a vial labelled H. selenkai from Mirador one of the localities given by Strebel for elegans.
It is a decidedly larger shell than the present species probably confined to a warmer zone.
Specimens from Uruapam and other places in the State of Michoacan S. N. Rhoads 1899 have closer spirals on the base.
A single immature specimen from Yautepec Moreles Heilprin exped.
probably belongs here.
It was recorded by the writer as elegans.
G. elegantula was collected at Guadalajara Jalisco by McConnell and Crawford 1909.
It was taken in river drift at Tampico by Mr. Hinkley but may have floated there from inland.
It appears to be common and widely distributed.
A closely related form having about one whorl less and with the aperture a little wider was taken by Mr. Hinkley about old logs in the banana plantation Maya farm Quirigua No.
28 of his 1913 collection.
It is more highly conic than G. pittier'i v.
Marts. and may perhaps be a new species between pittieri and elegantula or a subspecies of the latter.
Guppya qundlachi Pfr.
was taken by Mr. Hinkley at Tampico and near San Dieguito San Luis Potosi and at the Maya Farm Quirigua Guatemala.
Guppya Jalisco n. sp.
PI.
XI fig.
6.
The shell is minute umbilicate the umbilicus small round about oneninth the diameter of the shell light brown somewhat glossy very minutely striate the striae decussated by close microscopic spirals on the spire.
The spire is somewhat domeshaped the outlines convex summit obtuse.
The whorls are closely coiled nearly equal very convex the last one rounded peripherally and convex below.
Aperture rather narrow somewhat lunate.
Columellar margin a little dilated.
Alt.
1.7 diam.
1.9 mm.
 5 whorls.
Guadalajara Jalisco Mexico.
Type No.
44839 A. N. S. P. collected by R. A. McConnell 1909.
A very small compactly coiled shell much smaller than G. elegantula.
Pseudohyalina maya n. sp.
PI.
XI figs.
5 5a.
The shell is very minute shaped much like Z. nitida Mull.
 pale yellow openly umbilicate the width of umbilicus somewhat more than onefourth of the diameter of shell.
Surface glossy showing very faint growth lines under the microscope bat without spirals.
Whorls well rounded slowly increasing.
Aperture lunate somewhat oblique.
Alt.
1.1 diam.
1.75 mm.
 very nearly 4 whorls.
Maya farm Quirigua Guatemala A.
A. Hinkley.
Type and paratypes.
No.
107511 A. N. S. P. also in coll.
Hinkley.
This form is smaller than Hyalinia permodesta var.
rninor v. Martens.
Pseudohyalina opal n. sp.
PI.
XI figs.
7.
7a.
Shell very minute corneous smooth except for faint lines of growth having a somewhat silky luster above glossy beneath rather narrowly umbilicate the width of umbilicus contained about 61 times in the diameter of the shell.
Whorls 4J convex the last well rounded suture compressed narroAvly margined.
Aperture lunate.
Alt.
1.2 diam.
1.95 mm.
Polvon Nicaragua.
Types No.
48 523 A. N. S. P. collected by the McNeil expedition.
1919.
217 Fig.
5.
 Averellia hinkleyi.
This little shell has been in the collection for many years under the name H. opal McNeil Ms. It is more narrowly umbilicate than Z. mmja with the last whorl wider viewed from above.
Averellia Trichodiscina hinkleyi n. sp.
Fig.
5.
The shell is broadly and openly umbilicate discoidal the spire sunken a little between cinnamon and cinnamonbrown not banded.
Surface dull very densely and minutely papillose and sparsely covered with long hairs arranged in oblique lines.
These hairs are about 0.75 mm.
long and about 1 mm.
apart.
On the penult whorl they persist in the sutural region only and the first 1 whorls are smooth without papillae or hairs.
The whorls are convex the last rounded peripherally the periphery above the middle very deeply descending in front.
The aperture is subhorizontal.
Peristome pale vinaceous narrowly reflected the insertions of the lip remote parietal callus very thin.
Alt.
5 diam.
12.3 mm.
 width of umbiHcus 3.7 mm.
 of aperture 5 mm.
 4 whorls.
Mountains west of Livingston Guatemala A.
A. Hinkley 1913.
Type and paratype No.
107533 A. N. S. P. Distinct by its concave spire very deeply descending last whorl and long hairs.
The form and peristome are much as in il.
macneili Crosse but there is no trace of the peculiar pits of that species.
Thysanophora rhoadsi n. sp.
Fig.
6.
The shell is perforate conic light brown dull.
The spire is high a little convexly conic.
Whorls very convex the suture deeply impressed.
Sculpture of light fine somewhat oblique growth wrinkles with much more strongly retractive cuticular raised threads superposed over them but mainly worn from the type speci men.
The last whorl has rather strong irregular grow'thwrinkles and only slight traces of the retractive threads.
The aperture is oblique broad columellar margin reflected.
Alt.
2.8 diam.
2.5 mm.
 5 whorls.
Gualan Guatemala collected by S. N. Rhoads.
Fig.
6.
Thysanophora rhoadsi.
Type No.
114836 A. N. S. P. It is related to T. ccecoides Tate but differs by the more elevated shape the altitude exceeding the diameter.
Drymaeus dombeyanus Pfr..
In a variety from Guadalajara Jalisco the last 2 or 2 whorls are white the preceding 2 having some indistinct brown spots lip and interior white the spire is longer and aperture smaller than in the typical form.
Length 55 length of aperture with peristome 33 mm.
 nearly 7 whorls.
Another variety from the same neighborhood resembles D. dunkeri forreri Mouss.
in shape and coloration but has the coarse sculpture of dornheyanus.
It is streaked copiously with dull purplish brown with scattered whitish spots on the streaks.
Lip broadly expanded as in dombeyanus.
This variety may be called D. dombeyanus ornatus.
Length 41 diam.
22 aperture 24 mm.
u 43 a 26  27  Brachypodella subtilis pulchella Martens.
This shell which Mr. Hinkley has obtained in large numbers in the mountains west of Livingston Guatemala is not a form of B. morini as I formerly supposed.
It is closely related to B. subtilis Morel.
 from which it differs by the smaller size and decidedly stronger sculpture.
As in B. subtilis the early whorls are smooth while in B. morini they are finely striate.
B. subtilis of which I have an author's specimen was described from northern Guatemala and pulchella from Livingston.
 Succinea panamensis n. sp.
PI.
XI fig.
4.
The shell is narrowly ovate with produced spire pale yellow not very glossy with uneven sculpture of striae and low folds.
Whorls 2f to nearly 3 those of the spire convex the last whorl weakly convex above strongly so lelow the periphery.
Aperture symmetrically ovate.
Length 13.3 diam.
4.5 length of aperture 5.7 mm.
Panama Capt.
Field Las Cascades C. Z.
Dr. A. P. Brown J910.
Type and paratypes 48522 A. N. S. P. I formerly identified this as S. recisa Morel.
 but having now seen specimens of Morelet's species from the type locality it is easy to see that the Panamic species is different.
There are 26 specimens in the two lots the largest 14.6 mm.
long.
As I cannot exactly match the form with any of the numerous Central American or Mexican species it seems best to descrilje it as new in order to have a name for the particular form of the Canal Zone.
1919.
219 Vaginulus moreleti C.  F. Jocolo and Esmeralda Plantation Rio Dulce Guatemala A.
A. Hinkley .
Physa solidissima n. sp.
PI.
XI flg.
8.
The shell is imperforate subglobular with very short spire very thick and solid composed of 4f whorls the last one a little fuller above convexly tapering downwards.
Aperture semicircular outer lip evenly arcuate thick.
Columella very heavy with a low thick fold or convexity in the middle.
Length 8.2 diam.
6.3 length of aperture 6.9 mm.
Guadalajara Jalisco Mexico McConnell and Crawford.
This is very unlike any American species I have seen not only by its extreme solidity but also by the very short contour.
The surface is marked by a few growthlines but the minute sculpture if any and the color cannot be ascertained until fresh specimens come to hand.
Planorbula obstructa Morelet.
In a reservoir four miles north of Guatemala City Mr. Hinkley took a large series of shells agreeing with the small typical form of S. obstructa except in the absence of internal teeth in the great majority of specimens though a few show them.
This form which may be called mutation anodonta is analogous to S. dentiens var.
cmmaruni Morel.
It measures 5 to 6 mm.
in diameter and has only 4 whorls.
There are also several other lots in the collection of the Academy from places between Guatemala and Panama.
NERITILIA V. Martens.
The shell is neritiniform with smooth columellar margin.
Operculum with on the calcareous internal face a raised ledge along the 3 9 I 
x.
i basal and columellar edges rising in a point or ''peg but without a distinct rib.
Radula with no central tooth three laterals on each side the outer one or major lateral large oblique with serrate cusp.
Uncini or marginal teeth are extremely numerous with wide short serrate cusps.
Genotype N. rubida Pse.
Fig.
7.
 Teeth of Nerililia.
A lateral teeth of one side with part of the first uncinus.
B the first uncinus lying flat the cusps foreshortened.
C laterals of both sides with four uncini 1 2 3 first second and third or major laterals.
220 Dec The operculum is unlike that of any known Neritid snail but the chief peculiarity of the genus is in the radula.
There is no central tooth whatever the arrangement being as figured by Fischer for Nento'psis the formula being oo 30 3oo  that of Neritina and Nerita being oo 414go .
The large inner lateral tooth is low of very irregular form without cusp and hard to see on account of its low relief.
The second lateral is also low narrow without cusp and interlocking with the larger lateral.
The major lateral Hut or Schirm'pJatte of German authors resembles someAvhat that of Neritma reclivata as figured by Troschel.
The uncini are exceedingly numerous.
Only the inner ones are drawn in the figure fig.
7.
While the shell has some resemblance to that of Lepyrium the operculum and radula are very different and strikingly unlike Neritina or Theodoxus.
Neritilia succinea guatemalensis subsp.
Fig.
8.
The shell is Neritiform hemispherical solid buff the spire projecting very slightly.
Embryonic shell very small glossy subsequent whorls not quite 2 rather dull and smooth except for faint growth lines and on the latter part some impressed lines.
The aperture is semicircular yellowish and smooth within the lip sharp.
The columellar margin is straight without teeth or notches.
Callus flattened and plain not very extensive whitish towards the edge.
Alt.
3 greatest oblique diam.
4.7 mm.
Alt.
4. greatest oblique diam.
5 mm.
Fig.
8.
 Ncrililia succinea jualemaloisis sliell and three views of operculum tlie middle one an oblique view of the inside from the outer edge showing greatest height of the ledge.
The operculum is slightly reddish towards the outer margin a little concave marked with growth lines the nucleus near the basal end of the straight edge.
The interior face is covered with a calcareous layer except for a reddish border along the outer arc.
The basal and columellar margins have a raised ledge which rises in a rather high summit at the basal end of the straight columellar edge this 1919.
221 prominence is probably homologous with the peg of ordinary Neritid opercula and the very shght projection above and connected with it may be the remnant of a rib.
At each end there is an impressed scar of attachment.
Cavech River Guatemala at or near high tide rare found with Neritina virginea and N. punetulata the latter in abundance.
Collected by A.
A. Hinkley.
The process of the operculum is so much shorter than that of N. succinea that we have possibly a new species but veiy few have been examined.
Schasicheila hinkleyi n. sp.
Figs.
9 10.
The shell resembles that of S. paniucea Morelet except that it is larger.
It is thin between chamois and creambuff when clean densely clothed with subequal spiral cuticular threads.
The last whorl is indistinctly angular in front.
The lip is somewhat exFig.
9.
 Schasicheila hinkleyi shell and operculum.
panded rather deeply notched above about as in S. pannucea.
The straight inner margin forms a raised ledge.
Alt.
8.5 diam.
11 mm.
 3f whorls.
The operculum has a short obliquely projecting process at the upper and a long one parallel to the straight margin at the lower angle the concave outer face is papilose.
Chama Guatemala collected by A.
A. Hinkley.
The operculum of S. pannucea as figmed by Fischer and Crosse has no superior projection and the lower process is far shorter than in this species.
Cyrenoidea guatemalensis n. sp.
PI.
XI fig.
9.
The shell is orbicular rather plump whitish under a very pale brown cuticle.
Sculpture of very fine concentric striae with thin cuticular edges.
It resembles C. floridana Dall except that the hinge plate is shorter and wider anteriorly and the posterior end of the shell is well rounded while in floridana it is indistinctly truncate.
The interior has numerous small solid lumps.
The beaks are smooth.
Length 8.7 alt.
8.3 diam.
5.2 mm.
Livingston Guatemala A.
A. Hinkley 1913.
Type No.
107532 A. N. S. P. Eupera yucatanenenis minima n. subsp.
The shell resembles E. yucatanensis in contour having a very narrow anterior and broad posterior end of a uniform buffcorneous tint sometimes seven out of thirty one specimens examined maculate with dark gray.
It differs from E. singleyi by the narrower anterior end and the more projecting beaks.
Length 5 alt.
3.3 diam.
2.5 mm.
Valles river Valles State of San Luis Potosi Mexico on the under side of rocks in shallow water where there is a strong current in midstream A.
A. Hinkley.
Probably a distinct species.
E. yucatanensis measures  length 1 0 alt.
7 diam.
5 mm.
Donax mediamericana n. sp.
PI.
XI flg.
lo.
A species related to D. striata L. from which it differs by being smaller comparatively longer the alt.
being threefifths of the length the angle between the anterior dorsal border and the posterior keel is decidedly and constantly larger the anterior end is longer and tapers rapidly.
The beaks are at the posterior fourtenths of the length.
The keel is not so strongly expressed as in D. striata and the posterior area is much more convex.
The surface is shining sculptured about as in D. striata.
There are many radial riblets on the posterior end and extending on the valve about to the middle whence they diminish gradually to the anterior end.
The anteriordorsal slope is almost smooth.
The riblets crenulate the basal edge near the posterior angle but less strongly than in D. striata.
The teeth resemble those of D. striata except that the laterals are lower and much less robust.
The color is variable white throughout pink with concentric zones of a deeper shade the interior pink often violet at the ends yellow the interior white or pink and white with violet ends or yellow with dull bluish zones and beaks the interior deep violet.
Length 22. alt.
12.5 diam.
7.9 mm.
cotype. 
21.5  13. 
7.9   24.9  15. ''
8.3   25. 
14.9 '' 9 Livingston Guatemala collected by A.
A. Hinkley.
Type and cotypes No.
45178 A. N. S. P. This species was collected in considerable quantity by Mr. Hinkley but although locally common and belonging to a group in which species usually have a wide distribution I have been unable to trace this shell in the literature.
It is certainly distinct from D. striata the common Donax of the Mosquito Coast.
It resembles Roemer's figures of his D. siliqua from an unknown locality but in that species the beaks are more posterior at the posterior fourth  and the posterior carina is therefore steeper the posterior area is somewhat granulose and its outline more convex.
Moreover the teeth differ.
None of the new forms in Bertin's monograph Nouv.
Arch du Mus.
is nearly related.
Note.
 Since this article was in type I have found that Schepman in his Prosobranchia of the Siboga Expedition Part I 1908 p. 13 has already noticed the peculiarities of Neritilia and figured the teeth of N .
riihida from Celebes.
It is interesting to find American species with a similar radula.
Explanation of Plate XL Fig.
1.
 Spiraxis guatemalensis n. sp.
Fig.
2.
 Spiraxis longior n. sp.
Fig.
3.
 Pseudosuhulina martensiana n. sp.
Fig.
4. Succinea panamensis n. sp.
Figs.
5 5a. Pseudohyalina viaya n. sp.
Fig.
6.
 Guppy a Jalisco n. sp.
Figs.
7 7a.
 Pseudohyalina opal n. sp.
Fig.
8. Physa solidissima n. sp.
Fig.
9.Cyrenoidea guatevwlensis n. sp.
Fig.
10.
 Donax mediamericana n. sp.
10 SCROPHULARIACEiE OF THE SOUTHEASTERN UNITED STATES BY FRANCIS W. PENNELL.
The present revision of the species of the Scrophulariacese occurring in the southeastern portion of the United States from North Carohna to Florida and westward to the Mississippi River is the outgrowth of a longcontinued and especial interest.
Nearly fifteen years ago when the Avriter was a student in the Botanical Section of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia certain problems in this field appeared and have waited for the solutions now proposed.
Perhaps this early connection will make more fitting the appearance of this paper in these Proceedings.
During the late summers and early autumns of 1912 and 1913 I collected extensively through every state of this area.
This was in pursuit of a monographic study of the genera now called Macranthera Dasistoma Afzelia Aureolaria Agalinis and Otophylla.
Nearly every species was found and descriptions made of the form and color of the corolla of each.
Later almost every herbarium of significance for these species has been reviewed and the results are presented with some confidence.
A preliminary paper dealing with the species of the Coastal Plain was published in the Torrey Bulletin in 1913 and a summary of this group for North America is now awaiting publication in the Contributions from the Botanical Laboratory of the University of Pennsylvania.
In the course of these two trips many collections were made of the nearly related Buchnera and less consistently attention was given to other genera of the family.
But to obtain fielddescriptions and to collect for the first time the springflowering species another trip was necessary.
In the Spring of 1917 I traveled as far south as Key West and from the Coast into the Appalachians.
The expedition was peculiarly successful so that now excepting for a few local species of the lowland as Herpestis rotundifolia and several oi Agalinis or of the upland as Ilysanthes saxicola and Peistemon snialUi or of the mountains in late summer as Chelone lyoni practically every species has been described from flowering plants.
Excluding Agalinis and its allies specimens preserved in eastern herbaria only have been reviewed.
I have studied all in the herbaria of The New York Botanical Garden the Brookljn Botanic Garden The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia the Universit' of Pennsylvania the United States National Museum including the former Biltmore Herbarium and the Charleston IMuseum.
In all institutions I have received the kindest attention and assistance.
The present revision follows a plan which should lead to a simple and helpful presentation of our taxonomic knowledge of this family within the area considered.
Keys are given throughout and these are made so ample as to include all features of evident contrast noted.
Effort is made to group species and genera according to real relationship hence giving the keys a phylogenetic value.
To accomplish this and to show what appears to have been the evolutionary progress within this family a rearrangement of the whole has been made.
This was first attempted in my  Scrophulariacese of the Local Flora  but the placing of the Gratiolese as introductory to the genuine Scrophulariacese now appears to me more satisfactory.
While of theoretic suggestiveness it is hoped that these keys may prove of practical service.
Synonomy is given so far as to explain the origin and application of each specific and varietal name used and to account for every such name ever proposed from within this area.
The original statement as to the type or to typic distribution is quoted and consequent discussion is given.
Practically all typic or isotypic material known to occur in this country has been verified and in Agalinis and allies much of that abroad.
Especially rich in types are the herbaria of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia where Nuttall's and de Schweinitz's plants are preserved and of the Charleston Museum containing Elliott's collection.
The statements of distribution variability season of flowering and of fruiting corollacolor and other comment scarcely need explanation.
For Agalinis and allies which I have collected repeatedly and over a wide range my forthcoming monograph will give a more detailed analysis of the range of each species.
At present for all species I am stating range in general terms and shall trust to receive corrections from workers who find this treatment partial or erroneous.
The detailed noting of corollacolor will be of interest to students in the field.
In every case unless otherwise stated.
iTorreya 19 109114.
1919.
2 The word isotype is used to designate a specimen of the original collection other than the type itself .
See Torreya 19 13.
1919. this has been recorded from notes made with fresh flowers before me.
A last insertion may require more justification.
This is of the collectionnumbers of the specimens made by me grouping these by states.
While not attempting to list collections because of spacelimitation it does seem advisable to present this series showing specimens considered authentic.
For Agalinis and allies my forthcoming monograph will state fully the herbaria in which each may be consulted for these and for the other genera the numbers between 4000 and 6000 may be seen in the herbarium of the University of Pennsylvania at Philadelphia and numbers between 9000 and 10000 in that of the New York Botanical Garden.
Duplicates are in many collections.
Corolla with the posterior lobes external in the bud. '
ANTIRRHINOI DE.E.
Tree.
Leaves cordate 1520 cm.
long.
Inflorescence a panicle.
Sepals leathery clothed with stellate hairs.
Corolla 5060 mm.
long.
Capsule 40 mm.
long with broadly winged overlapping seeds.
I. Paulownie.
Herbs.
Leaves smaller.
Sepals membranous with stellate hairs only in Verhascum.
Corolla smaller.
Capsule smaller and seeds not overlapping.
Capsule septicidal or loculicidal by a simple median slit the septum rupturing or deciduous.
Corolla not spurred.
Corolla not saccate anteriorly not horned.
Stigma twolipped.
Leaves usually more or less glandularpunctate.
Pedicels frequently bibracteolate.
IL Gratiole.
Stigma capitate.
Leaves not glandularpunctate.
Pedicels not bracted or with a varying number of bractlets in Chelone.
Filaments five.
Capsule without placental hairs.
Leaves opposite ternate or alternate with blades much wider than the stem.
Corolla rotate slightly zygomorphic its lobes much longer than the tube.
Filaments all with fertile anthers.
Leaves alternate.
IIL Verbascee.
Corolla tubularcampanulate zygomorphic its lobes shorter than the tube.
Posterior filament without anther the others didynamous.
Leaves opposite or ternate.
IV.
Chelone.
Filaments four.
Capsule filled with tortuous hairs between which are the scattered seeds.
Leaves in fours sixes or eights with rudimentary blade which is narrower than the stem.
V. Russelie.e.
Corolla saccate anteriorly and with a fine horn at the base of the anterior lobes.
Leaves opposite.
VI.
AngelonietE.
Capsule loculicidal the septum and adjacent capsulewall persisting the remaining wall splitting irregularly.
Corolla with a spur at the base of the anterior petal.
Leaves alternate.
VII.
Antirrhine.
Corolla with the anterior lobes external in the bud.
Herbs.
RHINANTHOIDEiE.
Stamens two the posterolaterals present the anterolaterals completely lost.
Anterolateral lobes of corolla external in bud.
Not parasitic.
Sepals four the posterior lost.
Posterior lobes of corolla completely united.
VIII.
Veronice.
Stamens four didynamous the anterolaterals usually slightly the longer.
Usually perhaps always parasitic on the roots of other plants.
Sepals five alike more or less united.
Corollalobes all somewhat distinct the two posterior spreading or broadly arched anterior lobe external in the bud.
IX.
Buchnere.
Posterior sepal shorter or wanting.
Corolla decidedly twolipped the posterior lobes united and arched nearly to apex the anterior lobes usually shorter anterior or one anterolateral lobe external in the bud.
X. Rhinanthe.
I. PAULO WNIE. 1.
Paulownia.
II.
GRATIOLE.E.
Leaves alternate.
Stamens five.
Corolla essentially regular.
Pedicel not bibracteolate.
2.
Capraria.
Leaves opposite.
Stamens four or two the posterior stamen lost.
Corolla more or less zygomorphic.
Leaves entire to serrate.
Seeds brown or yellow.
Seeds reticulate.
Corolla with the ridges to the anterolateral sinuses low and not projecting beyond those points so anterior filaments simple.
Posterior lobes of the corolla little if at all shorter than the anterior.
Leaves uniform.
Capsule longer than wide acute or obtuse its dehiscence septicidal or septicidal plus locuHcidal.
Sepals all alike.
Pedicels never bibracteolate.
Stamens four.
First splitting of capsule loculicidal.
Corolla white rotate 35 mm.
long densely hirsute within over bases of all lobes lobes longer than tube the two posterior united throughout.
Sepals four distinct.
Lips of stigma united but line of union stigmatic.
Placentae fused with septum.
Upper leaves alternate.
3.
Scoparia.
Corolla lavender personate 2035 mm.
long pubescent within below bases of the anterior lobes lobes shorter than tube the two posterior united about threefourths length.
Sepals five united over onehalf length.
Lips of stigma distinct.
Placentae wide peltate in crosssection attached by a narrow line to the septum.
Leaves all opposite.
4.
Mimulus.
Sepals unequal all distinct.
Pedicels frequently bibracteolate.
First splitting of capsule septicidal.
Pedicels bibracteolate at base.
Stamens four.
Corolla pubescent within at base of posterior lobes.
5.
Mecardonia.
Pedicels bibracteolate at apex or not at all.
Erect.
Outer sepal not more than twice the width of the innermost.
Corolla 820 mm.
long with tube much longer than the lobes.
Pedicels bibracteolate.
Posterolateral stamens fertile the anterolaterals rudimentary or wanting.
Corollatube broad within densely pubescent on the posterior side.
Sepals of nearly uniform length.
Plants relatively lax or succulent the leaves and sepals plane.
6.
Gratiola.
Corollatube very narrow within uniformly shortpubescent on all sides.
Sepals very unequal in length.
Plant stiff the leaves and sepals revolute.
7.
Sophronanihe.
Extensively repent.
Outer sepal over twice the width of the innermost.
Corolla 311 mm.
long with tube little longer than the lobes.
Stamens four.
Corolla 711 mm.
long.
Outer sepal not deeply cordate nor conspicuously reticulate.
Corolla glabrous within the throat yellow the lobes white posterior lobes distinct.
No hypogynous bristles.
Outer sepal oval or ovate scarcely exceeding the oblong or lanceolate innermost.
Capsule over onehalf as broad as long.
Leaves widening distally very entire.
Pedicels reflexed in fruit.
Plants inodorous.
Stem pubescent.
Leaves spatulateoval to nearly orbicular with seven to nine longitudinal nerves.
Pedicel not bibracteolate.
Sepals obtuse scarcely longer than the rounded capsule.
Styles distinct at apex.
8.
Ranapalus.
V Stem glabrous.
Leaves spatulateoblong with one evident longitudinal nerve.
Pedicel bibracteolate.
 Sepals acute or acutish much exceeding the acute capsule.
Styles united to apex and stig mas short semicapitate.
9.
Bramia.
Corolla pubescent within over bases of all lobes blue throughout posterior lobes united to apex.
A circle of bristles surrounding the base of the ovary.
Outer sepal slightly cordate evidently exceeding the linearattenuate innermost.
Capsule less than onehalf as broad as long.
Leaves clasping broadest proximally crenate.
Pedicels bibracteolate spreading in fruit.
Stem pubescent.
Plant lemonscented.
10.
Hydrotrida.
Stamens two the anterolaterals lost.
Corolla 3 mm.
long white.
Outer sepal deeply cordate and conspicuously reticulate.
Stem finely pubescent.
Pedicels not bibracteolate.
11.
Herpestis.
Leaves dimorphic several lanceolate ones borne on the abbreviated basal portion of the stems and a pair of oval ones at the apex of the slender distal portion.
Capsule wider than long deeply notched with rounded flattened lobes only dehiscing loculicidally.
12.
Ampkianihus.
Seeds with fine transverse lines.
Corolla with two raised ridges each formed by the adherence of the filament to the antero lateral sinuses and which project as knoblike processes beyong this point the free portion of the filament appearing as a lateral outgrowth of the adherent portion.
Posterior lobes of the corolla less than twothirds the length of the anterior.
Corolla violetblue 611 mm.
long the posterior lobes f length of the anterior.
Posterolateral stamens perfect anterolateral filaments without anthers.
Style with an enlarged callose base.
Sepals five united at base.
Capsule twocelled oval in outline 25 mm.
long.
Ascending or repent.
13.
Ilysanthes.
Corolla palelavender or white 1.52 mm.
long.
Posterolateral stamens lost anterolateral filaments with anthers.
Style filamentous to base.
Sepals four the posterior lost.
Capsule onecelled at maturity by loss of septum and shortening of the placentae globose 1 mm.
long.
Repent.
Sepals united only at base.
Corolla with posterior lobes evident united onehalf length of anterior.
Styles distinct less than onefourth length.
Leaves orbicular.
14 Glohifera.
Sepals united  length split nearly to base on the anterior side.
Corolla with the posterior lobes lost the tube split nearly to base on posterior side.
Styles distinct  length.
Leaves ellipticobovate.
15.
Hemianthus.
Leaves bipinnatifid.
Seeds pale greenishyellow ridged with faint transverse lines.
Pedicel not bibracteolate.
Corolla lavender.
Erect.
16.
Leucospora.
III.
VERBASCE 17.
Verhascu7n.
IV.
CHELONE.
Seeds angled or winged maturing many to each cell.
Corollalobes uniformly colored shorter than the tube which is not conspicuously pouched at base posteriorly.
Posterior filament a conspicuous process.
Sepals nearly or quite distinct.
Plants stiff 420 dm.
tall.
Corolla white or pinkred pubescent or glabrous within its anterior lobes projecting.
Sepals distinct.
Sterile filament slender filiform white.
Corolla membranous somewhat pubescent or glabrous within over base of anterior lobes.
Sterile filament as long as the others pubescent on its posterior face.
Anthersacs distinct glabrous or barbate with short hairs.
Sepals lanceolate to ovate acute to acuminate.
Seeds wingless.
Inflorescence compound a raceme of cymosely branching lax flowerclusters.
18.
Penstemon.
Corolla semifleshy densely pubescent within over base of anterior lobes.
Sterile filament much shorter than the others glabrous.
Anthersacs becoming confluent densely lanate.
Sepals ovateorbicular rounded.
Seeds winged.
Inflorescence simple a spikelike raceme of single flowers on short severalbracted pedicels.
19.
Chelo7ie.
Corolla redbrown glabrous within its anterolateral lobes vertically projecting the anterior lobe deflexed.
Sepals obviously united at base.
Sterile filament shorter than wide twolobed redbrown.
Inflorescence compound.
20.
Scrophularia.
Seeds rounded smooth maturing one to each cell.
Anterior corollalobes blue posterior white all longer than the tube which is strongl pouched at base posteriorly.
Posterior filament a crescentic scarcely raised process.
Sepals united over onethird length enclosing over half the capsule.
Plant lax 13 dm.
tall.
21.
Collinsia.
V. RUSSELIEiE.
22.
Russelia.
VI.
ANGELONIE.
23.
Angelonia.
VII.
ANTIRRHINE.E.
Plants glabrous.
Flowering stems erect.
Leaves linear only the uppermost small ones with axillary flowers.
Pedicels not over 10 mm.
long.
24 Linaria.
Plants hirsute.
Flowering stems prostrate.
Leaves ovate to orbicular nearly all with axillary flowers.
Pedicels over 10 mm.
long.
25.
Kickxia.
VIII.
VERONICE.
Leaves whorled.
Corolla white its lobes shorter than the tube.
Capsule acute longer than broad not flattened.
Plant 1020 dm.
tall.
26.
Veronicastrum.
Leaves opposite or alternate.
Corolla blue or white its lobes longer than the tube.
Capsule acute to deeply notched broader than long flattened.
Plants lower.
27.
Veronica.
IX.
BUCHNERE.E.
Corolla not blue with open orifice.
Stamens all with anthers twocelled lanate.
Filaments and style nearly as long as or longer than the tube of the corolla.
Capsule exserted from the caljrxtube.
Pedicels not bracted.
Corolla tubular orange with thickened base fleshy semipersistent shriveling and blackening before falling.
Filaments equal longexserted pubescent with beaded hairs.
Anthersacs closely parallel 67 mm.
long.
Pedicels deflexed in fruit.
28.
Macranthera.
.Corolla with inflated throat and spreading lobes yellow or pink membranous soon falling.
Filaments not longexserted pubescence not beaded.
Anthersacs less than 5 mm.
long.
Pedicels erect or permanently spreading.
Anthersacs glabrous or with a few bristlelike hairs at apex.
Stigma short punctiform or capitate.
Filaments dilatedflattened and pubescent.
Corolla yellow.
Corolla densely pubescent within on all sides its lobes all distinct and slightly shorter than the tube.
Filaments clearly didynamous dilated and pubescent throughout.
Anthersacs each opening by a slit its entire length.
Style short thick more or less bilobed persistent and reflexed on the capsule.
Pedicels 12 mm.
long.
Plant stout 1520 dm.
tall the leaves 1030 cm.
long.
29.
Dasistoma.
Corolla slightly pubescent within in a ring about the base of the filaments and below posterior sinus its lobes longer than the tube the two posterior united nearly onehalf their length.
Filaments nearly equal dilated and pubescent at base.
Anthersacs each opening by a slit one sixth to onefourth its length.
Style long slender entire deciduous straight.
Pedicels 410 mm.
long.
Plants slender 210 dm.
tall the leaves 13 cm.
long.
30.
Afzelia.
Anthersacs lanate on the valvular surface.
Stigma linear consisting of a line down each side of the linguiform styleapex.
Filaments slender not dilated more or less lanate.
Corolla yellow.
Capsule acute to acuminate.
Leaves lanceolate to ovate entire to bipinnatifid petioled.
Stem stout over 4 dm.
tall.
31.
Aureolaria.
Corolla pink with red spots within on the anterior side.
Capsule rounded with a mucro.
Leaves filiform to lanceolate entire or auriculatelobed at base sessile.
Stem usually slender.
Stem ascendingscabrous to glabrous.
Leaves linear to filiform entire.
Pedicels over 1 mm.
long.
Calyxlobes linear to subulate shghtly longer to much shorter than the tube.
Anthersacs of both pairs of stamens uniform.
Capsule globose to globoseovoid 37 mm.
long.
Seeds closely reticulate.
32.
Agalinis.
Stem retrorsehispid.
Leaves lanceolate usually auriculatelobed at base.
Pedicels less than 1 mm.
long.
Calyxlobes ovate longer than the tube.
Anthersacs of posterior stamens shorter.
Capsule broadly ovate in outline 1013 mm.
long.
Seeds reticulate with raised ridges.
33.
Otophylla.
Corolla purpleblue or white salverform the tube very narrow and densely pilose within the lobes widely spreading.
Stamens each with but one anthersac developed.
Filaments and style less than onehalf length of corollatube.
Capsule mostly or quite enclosed within calyxtube.
Pedicels bibracteolate.
34.
Buchnera.
X. RHINANTHE.
Posterior sepal shorter than the others.
Pedicels bibracteolate at apex.
Capsule turgid septicidal only tardily slightly loculicidally dehiscent.
Seeds linear fiat 2 mm.
long.
35.
Schwalhea.
Posterior sepal wanting.
Pedicels not bracted.
Capsule flattened loculicidal splitting through septum.
Seeds turgid.
Corolla with posterior lobes projecting not hooded at apex the anterior lobes very short thickened deepgreen.
Capsule cylindric equally twocelled in dehiscence splitting on both posterior and anterior sides.
Seeds many reticulate.
Bracts foliaceous distally scarlet.
36.
Castilleja.
Corolla with posterior lobes arched hooded at apex the anterior lobes membranous flat colored.
Capsule ensiform unequally twocelled splitting only on the posterior side.
Seeds few not reticulate.
Bracts not colored.
Corolla yellow or pink throughout the anterior lip not raised into a palate.
Anthers glabrous.
Seeds maturing more than four to a capsule.
Sepals of each side united nearly or quite to apex.
Leaves bipinnatifidlobed.
37.
Pedicular is.
Corolla white the anterior lip raised into a yellow densely pubescent palate.
Anthers pubescent.
Seeds maturing two to four to a capsule.
Sepals united at base only the two postero laterals longer.
Leaves lanceolate entire or setaceoustoothed near base.
38.
Melampyrum.
1.
PAULOWNIA Siebold and Zuccarini.
PaulowninSieh.
andZucc Fl.
Jap.
1 25. pi.
10.
1835.
Type species P. imperialis S.  Z. of Japan.
1.
Paulownia tomentosa Thunb.
Baill.
Of Japan.
Is occasionally found along roads railways etc.
A frequently cultivated tree.
2.
CAPRARIA Linne.
Capraria L. Sp.
PI.
628.
1753.
Type species C. biflora L. 1.
Capraria biflora L. Capraria biflora L. 1. c. 628.
1753.
Habitat in Curassao.
Specimens from Curagao seen in Herb.
New York Botanical Garden.
Sandy soil mostly along the beach somewhat in waste ground and on edges of hammocks inland subtropical Florida.
A widespread species of lowland Tropical America.
Very variable varies with us mainly in size and proportions of leaf and in the length of the hairs on the stem and pedicels such hairs in the plant considered to be typical are entirely wanting.
The pubescent state may be called forma hirta Loes. in Bull.
Herb.
Boiss. ser.
II 3 284.
1903.
''Habitat in Guatemala in dept.
Chiquimula in ruderalibus ad S. Juan Ermita  SelerJ n.
3314.
Isotype seen in herbarium New York Botanical Garden.
Flowering and fruiting probably throughout the year although all specimens seen were collected between November and June.
Corolla white or violettinged and slightly spotted with violet within throat.
Normally the five stamens are fertile but any and as many as four may become rudimentary.
Examination of fresh flowers shows that both in Capraria and Scoparia the posterior lobes of the corolla are external in the bud thus confirming the impression gained from distribution and the nature of the glands in the leaves of the latter that these genera belong to the Gratioleae.
Pennell Florida 9559 9598 9610 9633.
3.
SCOP ARIA Linng.
Scopiria L. Sp.
PI.
116.
1753.
Type species S. dulcis L. 1.
Scoparia dulcis L. Scoparia dulcis L. 1. c. 116.
1753.
Habitat in Jamaica Curassao .
.
.
Hort.
Cliff.
320.
ex L. Hort.
Cliff.
320.
1737.
Crescit in Curassao  Jamaica.
No specimens from Curagao seen but the plant here considered unquestionably occurs there.
Gratiola micrantha Nutt. Amer.
Jour.
Sci.
5 287.
1822.
Collected in East Florida during October and November 1821 by A. Ware Esq.
V Type collected by Nathaniel A. Ware seen in Herb.
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Scoparia grandiflora Nash Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 23 105.
1896.
Collected in the flatwoods at Tampa Florida where it was quite frequent.
G. V. Nash No.
2417.
Type seen in Herb.
Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden.
I have collected this at Tampa my number 9643.
Scoparia dulcis varies considerably in size of corolla but no other character correlates with this nor do largerflowered plants occur in an environment distinct ecologically or geographically.
Wide gradation in corollasize may be found within one colony.
Waste places cultivated ground especially in sandy soil southern Georgia to southeastern Texas and southward wholly within the Coastal Plain.
A wide spread weed of lowland Tropical America.
Flowering and fruiting in subtropical Florida throughout the 3'ear northward flowering in summer from about May to September and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla white at times the lobes slightly pinkish.
Pennell Florida 9643 9656 9678 9702.
Louisiana 4254.
4.
MIMULUS Linne.
Mimulus L. Sp.
PI.
634.
1753.
Type species M. ringens L. Leafblades ovate petioled.
Angles of stem slightly winged.
Pedicels stout in fruit 510 mm.
long.
Calyxlobes setaceoustipped 12 mm.
long.
Corolla 35 mm.
long.
Seeds paleyellow.
1.
M. alatus.
Leafblades lanceolate not petioled.
Angles of stem not winged.
Pedicels slender in fruit 3060 mm.
long.
Calyxlobes lanceolate 35 mm.
long.
Corolla 2030 mm.
long.
Seeds brownish yellow.
Cauline leaves with the blades narrowed at the base not clasping.
Corolla 2025 mm.
long.
2.
M. minthodes.
Cauline leaves with the blades broader and clasping at the base.
Corolla 2530 mm.
long.
3.
M. ringens.
1.
Mimulus alatus Ait.
Minmlus alatus Ait. Hort.
Kew.
2 361.
1789.
Nat.
of North America.
Introd.
1783 by Mr. William Malcolm.
Wet woods and shaded riverbottoms loam soil throughout the area above the Fall line but not extending into the higher Appalachians and along riverbottoms in the Coastal Plain.
Ranges from Connecticut to Ontario and Kansas south to northern Florida along the Apalachicola River Mississippi and Oklahoma.
Flowering from late July to late August probably ripening fruit in September and October.
Corolla lavender pink within throat essentially as in M. ringens but the spots are smaller and the coloring fainter.
2.
Mimulus minthodes Greene.
Mimulus minthodes Greene.
Leaflets Bot.
Obs.
 Crit.
21.
1909.
The type specimens are in U. S. Herb and were collected at Birmingham Ala. Aug. 1888.
Type seen in United States National Herbarimn.
Meadows northern Georgia and northern Alabama Piedmont region.
Not seen growing.
Possibly not distinct from M. ringens.
3.
Mimulus ringens L. Mimulus ringens L. Sp.
PI.
634.
1753.
Habitat in Virginia Canada .
.
.
Hort.
ups.
176. t.
2.
In the Hortus Upsalensis 176 pl.
1 1748 Linne described and figured our plant.
Swales and along streams in woodland in loam through' the area above the fall line reaching at least to 4400 feet altitude in the southern Appalachians mostly more common northward  apparently not descending into the Coastal Plain.
Ranges from Nova Scotia to Minnesota south to upper South Carolina northern Florida and Kansas.
Flowering from mid July to late August fruiting in September and October.
Corolla lavender paler externally within on anterior side two ridges which distally bear purplered spots and proximally two yellow areas mottled with faint brownish patches.
5.
MECARDONIA Ruiz and Pavon.
Mecardonia R. and P. Syst.
Veg.
Fl.
Per.
et Chil.
164.
1798.
Type species M. ovata Ruiz  Pavon of Peru.
Corolla white its posterior lobes united f their length.
Outer sepals lanceolate rarely more than twice width of inner.
Leafblades prevailingly lanceolate conspicuously cuneate at base.
Erect or somewhat diffuse.
 Reported from Quincy Florida by A. W. Chapman in West.
Jour.
Med.
 Surg.
3 473.
1845.
Leafblades mostly oblanceolate longcuneate at base.
Pedicels mostly over 15 mm.
long.
Corolla lobes less widely spreading.
Main stemleaves 34.5 cm.
long.
Outer sepals 68 mm.
long.
Corolla about 10 mm.
long.
Plant branched above usually 34 dm.
tall erect or nearly so.
1.
M. acuminata.
Main stemleaves 1.32 cm.
long.
Outer sepals 56 mm.
long.
Corolla 78 mm.
long.
Plant much branched from the base 12 dm.
tall diffusely spreading and ascending.
la.
M. acuminata peninsidaris.
Leaf blades ovate more shortly cuneate at base 11.7 cm.
long.
Pedicels mostly 812 mm.
long.
Corolla 78 mm.
long its lobes relatively widely spreading.
Plant apparently laxly ascending.
lb.
M. acuminata brevifolia.
Corolla yellow its posterior lobes united nearly to apex.
Outer sepals ovate more than four times width of inner.
Leafblades often ovate more shortly cuneate at base.
Procumbent or ascending.
Corolla lemonyellow 6 mm.
long glandularpuberulent within.
Outer sepals broadly ovate.
Pedicels 12 times the length of the ovate bracts.
2.
M. procumbens.
Corolla deep lemon yellow 78 mm.
long shortpubescent within.
Outer sepals ovate.
Pedicels several times the length of the lanceolate ovate bracts.
3.
M. tenuis.
1.
Mecardonia acuminata Walt.
Small.
Gratiola acuminata Walt. Fl.
Carol.
61.
1788.
Type not verified but description evidently of plant here considered.
Doubtless from lower South Carolina where this plant is common.
Gerardia cuneifoUa Pursh Fl.
Amer.
Sept. 422.
1814.
In Georgia.
Bartram.
v. s. in Herb.
Banks.
Type not verified.
Description appears to be of our plant but the statement is made that the leaves are alternate above while in acuminata they are opposite throughout.
Matourea nigrescens Benth. Comp.
Bot.
Mag.
I 173.
1836. 
Giatiola acuminata Ell. non Pursh.
ex Ell. Sketch Bot.
S. C.  Ga. 1  15.
1816.
Grows in ditches and wet places extensively diffused.
Elliott interpreted correctly the species of Walter but Pursh had confused with this Gratiola virginiana L. Mecardonia acuminnta Walt.
Small Fl.
S. E. Un.
St. 1065 1337.
1903.
Moist sandy loam or heavier loam soil usually near streams in pineland or deciduous woodland frequent or common in most portions of the Coastal Plain although absent from such an area as the Altamaha Grit of southern Georgia extending to Cape Canaveral in southern Florida although through the Everglade Keys mostly replaced by var.
peninsularis and also reaching the mountain valleys of western North Carolina and northern Georgia.
Ranges from Maryland to Florida and eastern Texas extending inland to western Kentucky southern Missouri and eastern Oklahoma.
Flowering from May to September and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla white within with longitudinal pink veins on the posterior side.
Pennell Georgia 4088.
Florida 9658.
Louisiana 4283. la.
Mecardonia acuminata peninsularis Pennell var.
nov. Plants much branched from the base diffusely spreading and ascending.
Main stemleaves oblanceolate longcuneate .
at base 1.32 cm.
long.
Outer sepals 56 mm.
long.
Corolla 78 mm.
long.
Type in hammocks and pinelands Black Point below Cutler Florida collected in fruit and late flower November 13 1903 J. K. Small  J. J. Carter 824 in Herb.
New York Botanical Garden isotype in Herb.
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Moist places pineland hammocks and ev'erglades southern Florida.
Pennell Florida 9542. lb.
Mecardonia acuminata brevifolia Pennell var.
nov. Plants apparently laxly ascending slightly branched 14 dm.
tall.
Main stemleaves ovate cuneate at base 11.7 cm.
long.
Outer sepals 56 mm.
long.
Corolla 78 mm.
long.
Type Gulfport Mississippi collected in flower September 8 1900 F. E. Lloyd  S. M. Tracy 94 in Herb.
New York Botanical Garden.
Moist places in longleaf pineland southern Georgia and northern Florida to southern Texas.
2.
Mecardonia procumbens Mill.
Small.
Erinus procmnbens Mill. Gard.
Diet.
ed.
VIII.
n. 6.
1768.
... Houst.
MSS.
Type not known to exist but description appears to be of the plant here considered.
Houston collected in tropical America.
Mecardonia procumhens Mill.
Small Fl.
S. E. Un.
St. 1065 1338.
1903.
Moist soil loam or sand meadows and edges of hammocks subtropical Florida. A widespread weed of lowland Tropical America perhaps introduced into our flora.
Flowering and fruiting probably throughout the year.
Corolla externally greenishyellow within on the lobes lemonyellow and with more or less evident longitudinal dark veins on the posterior side.
Pennell Florida 9549.
Reported as Monniera chamaedryoides peduncularis by Mohr Contrib.
Nat.
Herb.
6 721.
1901 as occurring in Alabama from Upper Division Coast Pine belt to Coast Plain.
Surely confused with a form of Mecardonia acuminata.
3.
Mecardonia tenuis Small.
Mecardonia tenuis Small FI.
S. E. Un.
St. 1065 1338.
1903.
Type Key West Fla. Blodgett in Herb.
C.
U.
Type seen in Herb.
Columbia University at the Nev York Botanical Garden.
Light loam over limestone hammock and thickets Key West Florida Keys Subtropical Florida.
Endemic but so close to M. procumhens and to M. peduncularis Benth.
Small of Texas that the actual relationship of these species should be more fully investigated in the field.
Pennell Florida 9555 9599.
6.
GRATIOLA Linne.
Gratiola L. Sp.
PI.
17.
1753.
Type species G. officinalis L. of Europe.
Corolla slightly exceeding calyx externally glabrous.
Capsule nearly pyramidal acuminate.
Pedicels very short.
Plant pubescent with severalcelled hairs.
Leaves 12 cm.
long bracts usually much exceeding the flowers.
1.
G. pilosa.
Plant glabrous.
Leaves .81.2 cm.
long bracts not exceeding the flowers.
la.
G. pilosa epilis.
Corolla more than twice as long as the caljrx externally more or less puberulent.
Capsule broader acute to rounded.
Pedicels longer.
Stem glabrous or puberulent with onecelled hairs these frequently glandbearing.
Pedicels exceeding 10 mm.
in length.
Corolla within throat on posterior side densely pubescent with knobbed hairs.
Capsule ovate in outline 15 mm.
long equaled or exceeded by the sepals.
Seeds .3.5 mm.
long semiglobose to oblong.
Capsule 13 mm.
long much exceeded by the sepals.
Stemleaves clasping by a broad base usually at least the upper with resinous dots.
Roots perennial slender.
Stoloniferous.
Corolla goldenyellow throughout.
Capsule 3 mm.
long.
Seeds brown.
Leaves with blackish glandular dots.
2.
G. georgiana.
Corolla with throat dullyellow the lobes white.
Capsule 12 mm.
long.
Seeds paler.
Leaves with brown glandular dots these usually more sparsely distributed.
Leafblades linearlanceolate to lanceolate usually with a few coarse serratures.
Sepals linear to linearsubulate.
Capsule 12 mm.
long.
3.
G. ramosa.
Leafblades ovate with many usually finer serratures.
Sepals lanceolate to oblonglanceolate.
Capsule 2 mm.
long.
4.
G. viscidula.
Capsule 45 mm.
long about equaled by the sepals.
Stemleaves narrowed to a sessile or slightly clasping base not resinousdotted.
Roots apparently annual the main root thick and giving off numerous fibers.
Not stoloniferous.
Corolla of earlier flowers 812 mm.
long not lined within pubescent below anterior lobes with unknobbed hairs.
Leaves prevailingly lanceolate.
5.
G. neglecta.
Corolla of earlier flowers 1520 mm.
long purplelined within pubescent below anterior lobes with knobbed hairs.
Leaves prevailingly ovate.
Pedicels more slender and usually longer.
6.
G. flori'dana.
Pedicels less than 10 mm.
long.
Corolla within throat on posterior side pubescent with unknobbed hairs.
Capsule globose 56 mm.
long slightly exceeding the sepals.
Seeds .7 mm.
long linear.
Leaves and root as in neglecta.
7.
G. virginiana.
1.
Gratiola pilosa Michx.
Gratiola pilosa Michx. Fl.
Bor.
Amer.
1 7.
1803.
Hab.
in Carolinae inferioris uliginosis A.
Michaux.
Description sufficiently distinctive.
Moist or rather dry sandy pineland common nearly throughout the Coastal Plain south to central Florida occasional inland reaching the mountain valleys of North Carolina and northern Alabama.
Ranges from New Jersey to Florida central Arkansas and eastern Texas.
Flowering from late May to September and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla white throat distally with faint bluishpurple lines on all petals.
Pennell Georgia 10172.
Florida 9671 9682 9709.
Alabama 9721. la.
Gratiola pilosa epilis Permell var.
nov. Plant throughout glabrous or the sepals rarely with a few hairs.
Leaves shorter less evidently serrate.
Corolla 79 mm.
long.
Calyxlobes 4.5 mm.
long scarcely exceeding the capsule.
Capsule browner than in the species.
Type Myers Lee Co. Florida collected in flower and fruit JulyAugust 1900 A. S. Hitchcock 258 in United States National Herbarium isotype in Herb.
New York Botanical Garden.
Around ponds southern Florida.
Only the above specimens seen.
2.
Gratiola georgiana Pennell sp.
nov.
Stem fleshy glabrous repent ascending 24 dm.
long.
Leafblades lanceolate to lanceolateovate 1.52.5 cm.
long serrate to nearly entire acute or acutish.
Pedicels 715 mm.
long.
Caljrxlobes linear or nearly so 48 mm.
long.
Corolla 812 mm.
long bright yellow.
Capsule not seen.
17 Type Augusta Georgia collected in flower by Dr. William Baldwin in Herb.
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Wet pinebarrens North Carolina to Florida and Alabama also in southern Delaware.
Not seen growing.
This has been confused with the northern Gratiola aurea Pursh of which perhaps it should be counted a southern variety.
They may be separated as follows Plant erect or repentascending 13 dm.
long.
Leafblades linear to lanceolate frequently denticulate distally.
Pedicels 1025 mm.
long usually equahng or exceeding the bracts.
G. aurea.
Plant repent and ascending 24 dm.
long.
Leafblades lanceolate to lanceolateovate usually more uniformly serrate.
Pedicels 715 mm.
long shorter than the bracts.
G. georgiana.
Beside the collection of Baldwin Rugel 99 U Y from an unstated locality on Florida and also collected very many years ago is this species.
The plant is also well described by Elliott Sketch Bot.
S. C.  Ga. 1 13.
1816.
It should be recollected.
3.
Gratiola ramosa Walt.
Gratiola ramosa Walt. Fl.
Carol.
61.
1788.
Type not verified but descriptive of this plant common in lower South Carolina.
Gratiola quadridentata Michx. Fl.
Bor.
Amer.
1 6.
1803.
Hab.
in Carolina inferiore A.
Michaux.
Type not verified but description sufficiently distinctive.
Moist or wet sandy pineland edge of ponds common in the Coastal Plain South Carolina to southern Florida west to southern Mississippi.
Varies with frequently broader leaves inland and with shorter fleshier leaves in southern Florida.
In the spring erect but later in the season the stems become lax long and much branched.
Flowering from March to September and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla with tube dullyellow the lobes dullwhite the tube with longitudinal brown lines.
Pennell Georgia 9523.
Florida 9657 9669.
4.
Gratiola viscidula Pennell.
Gratiola viscosa Schwein. Le Conte Ann.
Lye.
N. Y.
1 106.
1824.
Inhabits Virginia and the upper parts of North Carolina.
The plant now considered although the description appears inaccurate in stating that the capsule is as long as the sepals.
Type from Salem North Carolina seen in Herb.
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Not G. viscosa Hornem. Enum.
PI.
Hort.
Hafn.
19.
1807.
Gratiola viscidula Pennell Torreya 19 145.
1919.
New name for G. viscosa Schwein.
6 Reported as Gratiola aurea Muhl.
in Hyam's Flora of North Carohna N. C. Coll.
A.
 M. Arts Bull.
164 327.
1891 and in Mohr Contrib.
Nat.
Herb.
6 720.
1901 as from the Coast Plain of southern Alabama.
Swales and along streams above the fallline through the Piedmont ascending to the valleys of the southern Appalachians.
Delaware to northern Georgia and eastern Tennessee.
Flowering from late June to September and soon ripening fruit.
Not seen growing.
5.
Gratiola neglects Torr.
Gratiola neglecta Torr. Cat.
PI.
N. Y.
89.
1819.
Within thirty miles of the City of New York.
Type probably seen in herbarium ofColumbia University at the New York Botanical Garden.
For discussion see Torreya 19 146.
1919.
Wet loam usually in deciduous woodland frequent through the Piedmont both east and west of the Appalachians apparently not in the Coastal Plain nor ascending appreciably into the mountains.
Ranges across the continent northward south in the East to northern Georgia and northern Alabama.
Flowering from April to June and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla with tube greenishyellow the lobes white at times pinkishtinged.
Pennell Georgia 9509.
Alabama 9760 9769 9784.
6.
Gratiola floridana Nutt.
Gratiola floridana Nutt. Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
7 103.
1834.
Hab.
near Chipola in West Florida in Herb.
Academy of Natural Sciences.
Type labeled Gratiola  grandiflora collected in 1830 seen in Herb.
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Gratiola macrantha Chapm. Fl.
S. Un.
St. ed.
III.
311.
1897.
Cool springs near Quincy Middle Florida.
Distinguished from G. floridana by having the staminodia present and relatively conspicuous.
In this species as in G. neglecta the .size of the rudiments of the anterolateral stamens is quite variable.
Muddy banks and in wet woods loam soil in riverbottoms in the Coastal Plain southern Georgia southern Alabama and northern Florida apparently occurring inland to the base of the mountains of northeastern Georgia and northeastern Alabama.
Flowering in April and May fruiting in May and June.
Corolla w'hite or pinkish on the lobes yellow over base of the posterior lobes and marked with longitudinal fine purple lines.
Pennell Florida 9704.
7.
Gratiola virginiana L. Gratiola virginiana L. Sp.
PI.
17.
1753.
Habitat in Virginia.
For discussion of the type of this see S. F. Blake in Rhodora 20 65.
1918. .
Gratiola sphaerocarpa Ell. Sketch Bot.
S. C. and Ga. 1 14.
1816.
Grows in ponds 4 miles from Charleston South Carolina on the neck.
Description distinctive made from plants which flowered in the autumn.
Type seen in the Elliott Herbarium at the Charleston Museum.
Gratiola megalocarpa Ell. 1. c. 16.
1816.
Grows in ditches and pools from Pennsylvania to Carolina.
Pursh.
Ex Pursh Fl.
Amer.
Sept. 12.
1814.
In ditches and pools Pensylvania to Carohna .
.
.
v. v. With a plant of his own Pursh combined an account of Walter's Ghatiola acuminata his own plant would appear to have been the species now considered although any extant type should be examined.
Specimens from Salem North Carolina collected by Schweinitz and labeled megalocarpa seen in Herb.
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Gratiola caroliniensis Le Conte Ann.
Lye.
N. Y.
1 105.
1824.
Inhabits in wet grounds from Carolina to Florida.
Description sufficiently distinctive.
Probable type collected by Le Conte at  Shallowford seen in Herb.
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Wet loam in shade usually along streams common through the Piedmont not ascending into the Appalachians and through the Coastal Plain south to central Florida.
Ranges from New Jersey to Florida and Texas inland in the Mississippi Valley to Illinois and Missouri.
Flowering from March to May fruiting May to June.
Corolla white within with longitudinal purple lines more pronounced on posterior side.
Pennell Georgia 9506.
Florida 9705 9714.
Alabama 9726.
7.
SOPHRONANTHE Bentham.
Sophronanthe Bentham Lindl. Nat.
Syst.
Bet. ed.
II 445.
1836.
Type species S. hispida Benth.
1.
Sophronanthe hispida Benth.
Sophronanthe hispida Benth. 1. c. 445.
1836.
The plant was gathered by Drummond at Apalachicola.
Isotype Drummond 20 seen in Herb.
Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden.
Gratiola subulata Baldwin Benth. in DC.
Prod.
10 405.
1846.
In Florida  .
.
.
Baldwin
.
.
  Specimen collected by Baldwin labeled W. Florida St. Marys river south side so probably an isotype seen in Herb.
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Dry sandy pineland Coastal Plain southern Georgia to Louisiana south through the Florida peninsula to Dade County.
Flowering from late April to September and soon ripening fruit in southern Florida flowering and fruiting throughout the year.
Corolla with tube externally yellowishwhite on lobes and within white.
Pennell Georgia 9528.
Florida 9660 9676 9689 9700.
8.
RANAPALUS Kellogg.
Ranapalus Kellogg Proc.
Calif. Acad.
7 113.
1877.
Type species R. eisenii Kell. of California.
1.
Ranapalus rotundifolius Michx.
Pennell comb.
nov. Monniera rotundifolia Michx. Fl.
Bor.
Amer.
2 22.
1803.
Hab.
in regione Illinoensi A.
Michaux.
Type not verified but description sufficiently distinctive.
Aquatic in shallow mudbottomed open ponds central and western Tennessee.
Through the Mississippi Valley from Indiana and Tennessee to North Dakota eastern Colorado and northern Texas.
Flowering from July to September and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla with throat yellow within the lobes white.
9.
BR AMI A Lamarck.
Bramia Lam. Encyc.
Meth. Bot.
1  459.
1785.
Type species B. indica Lam. of India.
1.
Bramia monnieri L. Pennell comb.
nov. Lysimachia monnieri L. Cent.
PI.
2 9.
1756.
Habitat in America meridionali.
Hallman.
D. Z. Hallman sent to Linne specimens from Spain so it would appear that the type of this was probably transmitted through him from some source in Spanish America.
Monniera cuneifolia Michx. Fl.
Bor.
Amer.
2 22.
1803.
Hab.
in locis mari inundatis Carolinae inferioris A.
Michaux.
Description sufficiently distinctive.
Type of the genus Habershamia Raf. Neogyn.
2.
1825.
Bramia monnieria L. Drake Fl.
Folyn.
Franc.
142.
1892.
Sandy beaches especially where subject to inundation common within tidewater both where brackish and where fresh growing also in pools in the sand dunes in the coastal pineland and inland up the rivercourses as far as Lake Okeechobee on and near the coast North Carolina to Florida and Texas.
A widespread maritime plant of both the New World and Old World Tropics.
Variable in size of its vegetative parts and even of its flowers plants everyway smaller occurring especially in drier situations and around the pineland pools.
Flowering in southern Florida throughout the year northward from April to November soon ripening fruit.
Corolla with tube yellowish within elsewhere white or frequently tinged with pink.
Anthers darkpurple.
Pennell Florida 9534 9537 9665.
10.
HYDROTRIDA Small.
Hydrotrida Small Fl.
Miami 165.
1913.
Type species Oholaria caroliniana Walt.
1.
Hydrotrida caroliniana Walt.
Small.
Oholaria caroliniana Walt. Fl.
Carol.
166.
1788.
Type not verified but description sufficiently distinctive.
Doubtless from lower South Carolina a district where the species now considered is frequent.
Monniera amplexicaidis Michx.. Fl.
Bor.
Amer.
222.
1803.
Hab.
in fossis stagnis Carolinae A.
Michaux.
Type not verified but description suflSciently distinctive.
Monniera crenulata Small Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 22 46.
1895.
Found by Mr. A. H. Curtiss growing in the bottom of ditches between Jacksonville and Trout Creek Florida on July 13 1893.
Type seen in Herb.
Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden.
This represents but a robust broadleaved state of the species.
Hydrotrida caroliniana Walt.
Small Fl.
Miami 165.
1913.
Aquatic in shallow water sandy soil edges of ponds and in small streams in pineland in the Coastal Plain North Carolina to Florida and Louisiana south through the Florida peninsula to the Everglades.
Flowering from May to September and soon ripening fruit in southern Florida flowering and fruiting throughout the year.
Corolla uniformly sky blue.
In the herbarium of Columbia University is a memorandum description of this by Boykin.
He proposed it as a new genus but his name Beyrichia was preoccupied and unfortunately no name was substituted and his suggestion has Iain unheeded.
Pennell Florida 9675 9683.
11.
HERPESTIS Gaertner.
f. Herpestis Gaertn.
f. Fruct.
et Sem.
PI.
3 186.
1807.
Type species H. rotundifolia Gaertn.
f. 1.
Herpestis rotundifolia Gaertn.
f. Herpestis rotundifolia Gaertn.
f. 1. c. 186. pi.
214.
1807.
E America septentrionali a Dno Bosc ex coUectione Desfontaines.
Bosc collected in Carolina and his plant as shown from the parts described is certainly the species now considered.
While Gaertner was doubtless influenced in his selection of a name by Michaux' Monniera rotundifolia 1803 Bosc's plant is stated to be only perhaps this.
Moreover Michaux' name is not connected with the phrase Herpestis rotundifolia so that we must consider this combination as here originating for the plant of Bosc.
This has been confused with Gratiola repens Sw. a species of Ranapalus.
In shallow water muddy shores within the Coastal Plain Maryland to Florida.
Also in the West Indies.
Very few collections are known and in our area only the following stations have been noted  Wilmington North Carolina Ogeechee Georgia Jacksonville and Eustis Florida.
While doubtless often overlooked the plant is certainly of scattered and rare occurrence.
Flowering at least from July to September and soon ripening fruit.
Not seen growing.
12.
AMPHIANTHUS Torrey.
Anphianthns Torr. Ann.
Lye.
N. Y.
4 82.
1837.
Type species A. pusillus Torr.
1.
Amphianthus pusillus Torr.
Amphianthus pusillus Torr. 1. c. 82.
1837.
Hab.
 In small excavations on flat rocks where the soil is wet during the flowering season Newton County Georgia .
.
.
Dr. M. C.
Leavenworth
Type seen in Herb.
Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden.
Growing in water in very shallow depressions in granite rock Stone Mountain and nearby granite hills of Dekalb and Newton counties central Georgia.
Flowering in April fruiting in May.
Not seen growing.
Apparently this plant only flourishes during wet seasons.
On April 25 1917 I searched most carefully for it on the summit and slopes of Stone Mountain Canbj's record of May 15 1869 specifies the summit but found no trace whatever.
The season had been dry and there were no pools.
A remarkable plant with a unique dimorphic habit.
It should be carefully studied living in order to assist in discovering its real relationship.
Certainly aberrant in Gratiolece it may possibly belong to the Vejonicece as is suggested by the fruit.
This was long ago the thought of Dr. Leavenworth as shown by his notes preserved in the herbarium of Columbia University.
13.
ILYSANTHES Raflnesque.
Ilysanthes Raf. Ann.
Nat.
13.
1820.
Type species 7. riparia Raf. of the banks of the Ohio.
Stem erect or ascending.
Leafblades more or less elongate the lower ones narrowed at the base.
Pedicels stout shorter than the subtending bracts.
Sepals usually as long as the capsule.
1.
I. duhia.
Pedicels filiform longer than the subtending bracts.
Sepals shorter than the capsule.
Upper leaves or bracts but slightly smaller than the lower.
Pedicels erect or ascending or in fruit rarely slightly reflexed.
Leaves mainly cauline.
Stemleaves partially clasping all opposite none of the leaves obviously punctate.
Sepals decidedly shorter than the capsules.
2.
I. inaequalis.
Stemleaves sessile or narrowed at base frequently in threes the leaves all evidently glandularpunctate.
Sepals scarcely shorter than the capsule.
3.
I. saxicoJa.
Upper leaves or bracts reduced to scales.
Pedicels conspicuously reflexed in fruit.
Leaves mainly basal.
4.
I. rejrada.
Stem repent or prostrate throughout.
Leafblades orbicular or ovateorbicular rounded at the base and closely sessile.
5.
I. grandiflora.
1.
Ilysanthes dubia L. Barnhart.
Gratiola duhia 'L..'P.7.
1753.
Habitat in Virginiae aquosis.
.
.
.
Gron.
viig.
129.
Type Clayton 164 identified by Dr. B. L. Robinson in Rhodora 10 67.
1908. as the species here considered.
Capraria gralioloides L. Syst.
ed.
X.
1117.
1759.
Based upon Graliola duhia L. Gratiola tetragona Ell. Sketch Bot.
S. C. and Ga. 1 15.
1816.
Growsin ponds and ditches four miles from Charleston South Carolina.
Type seen in the Elliott Herbarium at the Charleston Museum.
Lindernia attenuata Muhl.
 Ell. 1. c. 17.
1816.
Grows in wet places.
Vail' Ombrosa Ogechee Georgia.
Type seen in the Elliott Herbarium at the Charleston Mu.seum.
Isotype in Herb.
Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden.
 Ilysanthes dubia L. Barnhart Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 26 376.
1899.
Swamps and stream margins especially in groves or woodland loam soil through the southern Appalachians and the Piedmont both east and west of the mountains apparently more frequent northward  in the Coastal Plain occasional or local in heavier soils along riverbottoms and along the coastal bays.
Ranges from New Brunswick and Ontario south to northern Florida also in the West Indies and South America.
In the lower Piedmont and Coastal Plain forms transitional to .
inaequalis occur.
Flowering from May to September and soon ripening frait.
Corolla pale lavender deeper in color near margin of lobes and within along the anterolateral ridges with short yellow hairs.
Pennell Florida 9707.
Alabama 9723.
2.
Ilysanthes inaequalis Walt.
Pennell.
Gratiola inaequalis Walt. Fl.
Carol.
61.
1788.
Type not verified but is from lower South Carolina where the plant here considered is frequent.
Walter's species was interpreted as this plant by Elliott the most critical student of the Carolina flora.
Gratiola anagallidea Michx. Fl.
Bor.
Amer.
1 6.
1803.
Hab.
in humidis Carolinae A.
Michaux.
Type not verified.
Linderniadilatata Muhl.
 Ell Sketch Bot.
S. C. and Ga. 1 16.
1816.
Grows in ditches around ponds.
Type seen in the Elliott Herbarium at the Charleston Museum.
It is labeled Vail Ombrosa whereas that of L. attenuata bears no definite indication of locality.
The first good characterization of this species.
Graiioto ditototo Muhl.
 Spreng. Syst.
139.
1825.
Carolina.
Surely based upon Lindernia dilatata Muhl. but this not cited.
Ilysanthes inaequalis Walt.
Pennell Torreya 19 149.
1919.
Swamps loam and more usually in sandy soil frequently in open situations pineland pools and edges of hammocks through the Coastal Plain frequent or local extending inland locally into the Piedmont.
Ranges from Massachusetts to Florida and Texas apparently also in Colorado the Pacific Coast states in Mexico the West Indies Central and South America.
Intergrades with Ilysanthes dubia.
Flowering from March to September and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla as in .
dubia.
Pennell Florida 9649 9673.
Alabama 9768.
3.
Ilysanthes saxicola AI.
A. Curtis Chapm.
Lindernia saxicola M. A. Curtis Amer.
Journ.
Sci.
44 83.
1843.
On rocks in the Hiwassee River North Carolina M. A. Curtis.
.
.
.
Isotype seen in Herb.
Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden.
Ilysanthes saxicola M. A. Curtis Chapm. Fl.
S. Un.
St. 294.
1860.
On rocks in rapid mountainstreams known only from the Hiwassee River in North Carolina and from the headwaters of the Savannah River at Tallulah Falls northern Georgia.
Flowering at least in August and September and soon ripening fruit.
Not seen growing.
4.
Ilysanthes refracta Ell.
Beath.
Lindernia refracta Ell. Sketch Bot.
S. C. and Ga. 1 579.
1821.
Grows around the margins of ponds in Barnwell district South Carolina in Burke County and near Milledgeville Georgia.
Type Hab.
in sphagnis Barnwell Co. So.
Car. seen in Elliott Herbarium at the Charleston Museum.
Tittmannia monlicola Spreng. Syst.
2 800.
1825. 
Carolina' bor.
Lindernia monticola Nutt..
The name of Nuttall was a nomen nudum and Nuttall Gen. Am.
1 9.
1818 says perhaps due to a typographic slip from the hills of New Hampshire.
But that the name monticola was in use before the date of Sprengel's publication is proven by the existence of old specimens labeled Lindernia monticola collected by Schweinitz probably in North Carolina.
Such a specimen in the herbarium of Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden is probably an isotype of T. monticola and is Ilysanthes refracta.
Ilysanthes refracta Ell.
Benth. in DC.
Prod.
10 419.
1846.
Moist sandy soil shallow depressions in pineland in the Coastal Plain from South Carolina to northern Florida and eastern Alabama inland on the granite of central Georgia and eastern Alabama and likewise in the Piedmont of central North Carolina doubtless also on granite.
Flowering from March to September and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla externally violet purple paler on the anterior side within paler but with three violetpurple streaks below the posterior sinuses a horizontal band of violetpurple on anterior side just within the mouth and with darker blotches below the anterior sinuses.
Pennell Georgia053 9510 9522.
5.
Ilysanthes grandiflora Nutt.
Benth.
Lindernia grandiflora Nutt. Gen. Amer.
2 43.
1818.
Hab.
On the spongy margins of sandy springs and ponds in Georgia betwixt Savannah and Augusta in many places.
Type seen in Herb.
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Ilysanthes grandiflora Nutt.
Benth.
in DC.
Prod.
10 418.
1846.
Moist sandy soil especially along streams in longleaf pineland and southward in the Everglades southern Georgia to southern Florida.
Flowering from March to at least July probably to September and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla externallj violetblue paler on anterior side posterior lobes externally pale purplishblue within very pale and with light violet median line anterior lobes white externally and within excepting for two violetblue blotches near the bases of the lobes.
Pennell Florida 9654 9670 9672.
14.
GLOBIFERA.l.
F. Gmelin.
Globifera J. F.
Gmel. Syst.
2 32.
1791.
Type species Anonymos umhrosa Walt.
1.
Globifera umbrosa Walt.
J. F. Gmel.
Anonymos umbrosa Walt. Fl.
Carol.
63.
1788.
Type probably from lower South Carolina identified by Dr. S. F. Blake in Rhodora 17 131.
1915 as the species here considered.
Micranthemum orhindalum Midix. Fl.
Bor.
Amer.
1 10. pi.
2.
1803.
Type not verified but description and plate evidently of species here considered.
Type of genus Micranthemum Michx.
Micranthethum emarginatum Ell. Sketch Bot.
S. C. and Ga. 1 18.
1816.
Grows in ditches and wet places  Vail 'Ombrosa Great Ogechee.
.
Type seen in Elliott Herbarium at the Charleston Museum.
Said to be in the upper country common and characterized from the very common and evidently lowland M. orbiculatum by its more remote and larger leaves.
Globifera umbrosa varies considerably in size of leaves but the ample collections at hand show this to be ecologic and not to distinguish plants of differing range.
Wet loam or in shallow water in woodland especially in riverbottoms locally common throughout the Coastal Plain especially near the ocean.
North Carolina to central Florida and eastern Texas rarely reported from above the fallline.
Also in eastern Mexico and the West Indies.
Flowering from May to October and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla uniformly dullwhite.
Anthers redbrown.
Pennell Florida 9706.
15.
HEMIANTHUS Nuttall.
Hemianthus Nutt. Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
1 119. pi.
6.
1817.
Type species H. micranthemoides Nutt. of Pennsylvania.
1.
Hemianthus glomeratus Chapm.
Pemiell comb.
nov. Micranthemum nultallii glomerturn Chapm. Fl.
S. Un.
St. ed.
III.
313.
1897.
Rivers and wet banks South Florida.
Tjpe not verified.
Sandy shores of lakes and rivers known from Lake Okeechobee and along the Gulf coast from Tampa to the Caloosahatchee River southern Florida.
Flowering and fruiting probably throughout the year the specimens seen collected in May and November.
Not seen growing.
This may be distinguished from the other species of the Eastern United States Hemianthus micranthus Pursh Pennell H. micranthemoides Nutt.
of the Delaware and Chesapeake drainage by the following contrast Calyxlobes obtuse or obtusish less than onefourth the length of the tube.
Anterior lobe of the corolla nearly as long as the portion of the anterior lip below the base of the lateral lobes.
H. micranthus.
CaljTclobes acute onethird to onehalf the length of the tube.
Anterior lobe of the corolla about half as long as the portion of the anterior lip below the base of the lateral lobes.
H. glomeratxis.
16.
LEUCOSPORA Nuttall.
Lewcospora Nutt. Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
7 87.
1834.
Type species Capraria multifida Michx.
1.
Leuscopora multifida Michx.
Nutt.
Capraria multifida Michx. Fl.
Bor.
Amer.
2 22. pi.
35.
1805.
Hab.
in ripis arenosis fluminum amniculorumque in Tennassee et Illinoensi regione.
Type not verified but description and plate certainly of species here considered.
Leucospora multifida Michx.
Nutt. 1. c. 87.
1834.
Sandy or loam banks of brooks or rivers in open meadows or along shores also in Cedar Glades Tennessee west of the Cumberland Mountains to western Alabama and central Mississippi.
Ranges from southwestern Ontario to Kansas south to Alabama and Texas.
Flowering from June to October and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla palelavender deeper on lobes and lined with deeper lavender tube within at base greenishyellow then yellow on the anterior side and toward mouth with a purplish ring white at base of the lavender anterior lobes.
This plant has been placed in the very different tropical genus Conohea Aubl. '
' 17.
VERB AS CUM Linne.
Verhascum L. Sp.
PI.
177.
1753.
Type species V. thapsus L. of Europe.
Stem glabrous or with simple glandtipped hairs above.
Leaves glabrous.
Pedicels 1015 mm.
long.
Filaments all densely lanose with knobbed purple hairs.
Capsule subglobose glandularpuberulent.
Seeds .8.9 mm.
long darkgray.
1.
V. hlattaria.
Stem pubescent with stellate glandless hairs.
Leaves at least beneath pubescent.
Pedicels less than 10 mm.
long.
Filaments three posterior lanose two anterior sparingly lanose to glabrous with filiform yellow hairs.
Capsules ovoid to oblong stellatepubescent.
Seeds A.7 mm.
long brownishgray.
Leafblades crenate glabrate above those of the stem sessile.
Pedicels usually several in an axil.
Sepals about onehalf length of capsule.
Inflorescence not densely crowded.
Inflorescence a simple raceme the pedicels 15 to an axil.
Capsule globose 78 mm.
long.
Leaves green and slightly pubescent beneath.
2.
V. virgatum.
Inflorescence a panicle of racemes the pedicels 312 to an axil.
Capsule oblong or oblongovoid 45 mm.
long.
Leaves white and densely stellate tomentose beneath.
3.
T.
lychnitis.
Leafblades entire or but obscurely crenate densely pubescent above those of the stem decurrent.
Pedicels one to an axil.
Sepals equaling the capsule.
Inflorescence densely crowded.
4.
Y. thapsus.
1.
Verbascum blattaria L. Old fields and roadsides throughout area north of central Florida.
Naturalized from Eurasia.
2.
Verbascum virgatum With.
Berkeley Co. South Carolina.
Naturalized from Eurasia.
3.
Verbascum lychnitis L. Old fields and roadsides occasional in North Carolina.
Naturalized from Eurasia.
4.
Verbascum thapsus L. Old fields roadsides and thickets throughout area north of central Florida usually common.
Naturalized from Eurasia.
18.
PENSTEMON Mitchell Schmidel.
Penstemon Schmidel Icon.
PI.
2.
1762.
Type species Chelone pentstemon L. Leafblades dimorphic those of the prostrate wintering stems entire or fewtoothed those of the erect flowering stems bipinnatifid with linear segments.
Corolla pinkpurple its throat strongly inflated and but obscurely ridged anteriorly.
Anthersacs shallowly saccate.
Sterile filament conspicuously exserted.
1.
P. dissedus.
Leafblades uniform entire or merely toothed.
Corolla reddishpurple to white its throat moderately to slightly inflated obviously ridged anteriorly.
Sterile filament included or slightly exserted.
Anthersacs dehiscent by short proximal slits the distal portion of each remaining pouch like.
Leaf blades entire or essentially so.
Branches of the inflorescence elongate.
Corolla white unlined nearly glabrous within the throat.
2.
P. multiflorus.
Anthersacs dehiscent their entire length so never pouchlike.
Leaf blades more or less serrate.
Branches of the inflorescence less elongate.
Corolla lanose within nearlj always with more or less conspicuous lines of deeper color within on the anterior side.
Corolla with throat relatively inflated its mouth open not closed by the anterior lip.
Sterile filament slightly to moderately densely bearded.
Plants ialler.
Corolla white rather strongly inflated.
Anthersacs usually barbate.
Stem glabrous or nearly so 3.
P. digitalis.
Corolla more or less violetpurple moderately inflated.
Anthersacs glabrous.
Stem usually puberulent.
Corolla more open its throat anteriorly shallowly tworidged and with broader less evident lines.
Anthersacs grayish.
Sterile filament included slightly bearded.
Stem finely puberulent.
Calyxlobes becoming 47 mm.
long onehalf to twothirds the length of the capsule.
Corolla 2025 28 mm.
long usually Hght violetpurple.
Leafblades lanceolate sparsely serrate.
4.
P. pefitstemon.
Calyxlobes becoming 810 mm.
long equaling the capsule.
Corolla 2535 mm.
long usually deeper violetpurple.
Leafblades broadly lanceolate usually more serrate.
5.
P. calycoms.
Corolla narrower its throat within strongly tworidged anteriorly and at least in P. canescens with narrow sharply defined lines.
Anthersacs violetpurple.
Sterile filament slightly exserted moderately bearded.
Stems more loosely puberulent.
Blades of the cauline leaves tapering from the broad base more serrate glabrous or nearly so.
Corolla bright pink purple.
Capsule broadly ovoid.
6.
P. smallii.
Blades of the cauline leaves usually narrowed from above the narrower base less serrate more pubescent.
Corolla faint violetpurple conspicuously lined within throat.
Capsule ovoid.
7.
P. canescens.
Corolla with throat scarcely inflated its mouth closed by the anterior lip which rises as a convex arc.
Sterile filament very densely bearded.
Plants lower.
Corolla 2025 mm.
long broader redpurple throat deeply lined within white on anterior lobes within.
Sterile filament bearded with goldenyellow hairs.
8.
P. australis.
Corolla 2530 mm.
long very narrow and slender white throughout.
Sterile filament bearded with lemonyellow hairs.
9.
P. tenuiflorus.
1.
Penstemon dissectus Ell.
Penstemon dissectus Ell. Sketch Bot.
S. C. and Ga. 2 129.
1822.
This .
.
.
species was sent me .
.
.
from Louisville Georgia by Mr.
Jackson.
Type seen in the Elliott Herbarium at the Charleston Museum.
Light gravelly soil rockledges rock outcrops of Altamaha Grit southern Georgia.
Flowering in April and May fruiting in June.
Corolla violet purple externally slightly redder paler on anterior side within bluer on lobes paler within throat and in a triangle at base of each lobe the throat within with fine longitudinal violetpurple lines.
Sterile filament with slightly yellowish hairs.
The pecuhar dimorphism of the leaves of this species as well as the occurrence of bipinnatifid leaf blades is unique in this genus.
Pennell Georgia 9527.
2.
Penstemon multiflorus Chapm.
Pensiemon pubescens multiflorus Chapm.
Benth.
in DC.
Prod.
10 327.
1846.
In Louisiana et Florida.
P. multiflorus Chapm.
mss.
 Specimen seen in Herb.
Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden from sandy pine woods between Mariana  St. Andrew's Bay collected by A. W. Chapman Oct. 1838 and labeled probably a distinct species is probably an isotype.
Penstemon multiflorus Chapm.
 Small Fl.
S. E. Un.
St. 1061.
1903.
Sandy or gravelly soil scruboak land or pine land through peninsular Florida and westward through Middle Florida to the West Florida Pine Hills and in extreme southern Georgia.
Flowering from May to July and soon ripening fruit southward flowering and fruiting throughout the year.
Corolla white within slightly purple on proximal part of tube and sometimes on the lobes.
Pennell Florida 9539 9548 9644.
3.
Penstemon digitalis Nutt.
Chelone digitalis Nutt.
Sweet Brit.
Fl.
Card.
pi.
120.
1825. 
Pentstemon Digitalis Nutt.
.
.
.
Found by Mr. Nuttall in the Arkansas territory of North America.
.
.
.
The plant from which our drawing was taken was received last autumn from New York by Mr. Anderson of the Apothecaries' Garden at Chelsea to whom it was sent by Mr.
Hogg.
A careful description and illustration certainly of the plant now considered the description being apparently more accurate than Nuttall's own in mentioning the pubescence of the anthers.
Penstemon digitalis Nutt. Trans.
Amer.
Phil.
Soc.
ser.
II.
5 181.
1837.
Hab.
in wet woods and prairies Arkansas Territory common.
T.
Nuttall.
Possible type labeled  Pentsiemon latifolium. Arkansa Nuttall seen in Herb.
Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden.
Described without reference to Chelone digitalis.
Fields and edges of woodland loam western Tennessee and near Birmingham Alabama probably elsewhere northward.
Native in the southwestern Mississippi valley extensively introduced into the northeastern United States and probably an introduction into the southeastern flora.
Flowering in May and June fruiting in August and September.
Corolla white throughout or within on the anterior side with more or less evident violet lines.
4.
Penstemon pentstemon L. Macm.
Chelone 'pentstemon L. Sp.
PI.
612.
1753.
Habitat in Virginia.
Type not verified but must have been the species here considered because in 1753 this was certainly the only essentially glabrous species of the Atlantic seaboard.
Penslemon laevigatus Ait. Hort.
Kew.
2 361.
1789.
Chelone Pentstemon J. F. Miller ic.
4. .
.
.
Nat.
of North America.
Cult.
1776 by John Fothergill M. D. The description and also the plate of Miller clearly denote the species now considered.
Bartramia pulchella Salisb. Prod.
Stirp.
Chapel Allerton 99.
1796.
New name for Penstemon laevigatus Ait.
Type of genus Bartramia Salisb.
Pensteuon pentstemon L. Macm. Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 19 1.5.
1892.
Meadows riverbanks and edges of forest ljam or clay frequent or common through the Piedmont both east and west of the mountains and through the lower valleys of the southern Appalachians descending along riverbanks slightly into the Coastal Plain.
Ranges from Virginia to northern Florida and Louisiana and inland probably to Illinois perhaps introduced westward.
Flowering from midMa to midJune fruiting in July and August.
Corolla externally violetpurplish deepest on tube on throat and lobes palepurplish nearly white on anterior side within white and within throat on anterior side with more or less evident violet lines.
Sterile filament with yellow hairs.
Pennell Georgia 9787.
Alabama 9746 9756 9780.
5.
Penstemon calycosus Small.
Penstemon calycosus Small Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 2.5 470.
1898.
Nashville Tennessee.
This refers to a note in Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 21 304.
1894 reporting the occurrence of Penstemon Stnallii and stating Mr. Bicknell has lately discovered this ... at Nashville Tennessee He remarks that it grows plentifully on the bluffs of the Cumberland River about that city.
Type seen in Herb.
Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden.
Rocky places limestone ledges in forest Tennessee Basin and lower slopes of the Cumberland IVIountains central and eastern Tennessee and northern Alabama.
Ranges northward to Indiana and Illinois.
Flowering from midMay to midJune fruiting in July.
Corolla externally violetpurple redder than in P. pentstemon deeper posteriorly fainter to white on anterior side within nearly white within throat on lobes faintly violetpurple and with a few obscurely violetpurple lines within throat on anterior side.
Sterile filament with yellowish hairs.
Pennell Alabama 9772.
6.
Penstemon smallii Heller.
Penstemon smallii Heller Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 21 25.
1894.
Collected by the writer on Blowing Rock Mountain Caldwell County Northl Carolina July 21 1890 at an elevation of 4000 feet.
....
Early in June 1891 the locality was again visited in company with Mr. John K.
Small.
Type Blowing Rock Mountain Watauga Co. collected in flower June 1020 Small  Heller 451 seen in Herb.
Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden.
Isotype in Herb.
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Rocky lower mountainslopes and on riverbluffs in forest Appalachians of North Carolina eastern Tennessee and northernmost Georgia.
Ranges northward into southwestern Virginia.
Flowering from late May to late June fruiting in July.
Xot seen growing.
7.
Penstemon canescens Britton Brltton.
Penstemon laerigatus canescens Britton Mem.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 2 30.
1890.
High rocky banks of the Roanoke River near Roanoke Virginia May 1890 A. M. Vail and others.
Type collected May 29 labeled by Dr. Britton who was of the party seen in Herb.
Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden.
Penstemon cane'icens Britton Britton 1. c. 5291.
1894.
Rocky loam in open forest lower mountain slopes in the eastern Appalachians seen only from near the French Broad River in North Carolina through at least the southern Cumberlands abundant on Lookout Mountain and in extreme northwestern Georgia and doubtless northeastern Alabama.
Flowering in May and June fruiting in July and August.
Corolla externally faint violet purple within nearly white and on the anterior side with eleven narrow sharply defined deep violet purple lines.
Sterile filament with pale brownish yellow hairs.
Fennel 1 Georgia 9785.
Tennessee 5717 9788.
8.
Penstemon australis Small.
Penstemon australis Small Fl.
S. E. Un.
St. 1060 1337.
1903.
Type Nash PI.
Fla. 1822 in Herb.
C.
U.
Type Eustis Lake County f Florida collected in flower and fruit May 28June 15 1895 seen in Herb.
Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden.
Dry sandy soil fields scrub oak and pine land through the Coastal Plain from North Carolina to central Florida and eastern Texas mostly common inland to the granite of central Georgia and in upper South Carolina.
Usually with broader leaves inland while in the pinebarrens of the Coastal Plain the cauline may be fewer and usually much smaller so that the stem appears somewhat scapose.
Flowering in April and May fruiting in June and July.
Corolla externally reddishpurple paler on anterior side within redpurple on posterior lobes with on each a fine median line of deeper color anterior lobes white with deep redpurple streaks three to each lateral lobe and five which anastomoze distally to the median lobe.
Sterile filament with yellow hairs.
This and other southern species have been freely listed as Penstemon puhescens or P. hirsutus a northern plant with lavender corollas and not definitely known from our area.
Pennell North Carohna 4944.
Georgia 4032 9515 9525.
Florida 9680 9694 9708.
9.
Penstemon tenuiflorus Pennell.
Penstemon tenuifiorus Pennell Addisonia 4 79. pi.
160.
1919.
The type specimen was collected in loam soil in open pineland three miles southeast of Albany Morgan County Alabama on May 27 1917 my number 9753 and is preserved in the herbarum of the New York Botanical Garden.
Stem 36 dm.
tall whitish puberulent.
Blades of the cauline leaves 39 cm.
long obscurely serrulate puberulent to pubescent.
Panicle narrow its branches glandularpubescent.
Calyxlobes ovate 35 mm.
long.
Corolla 2530 mm.
long its throat narrowly arched and keeled posteriorly flattened and strongly tworidged within anteriorly externally glandularpuberulent within pubescent with yellow hairs over the projecting bases of the anterior lobes white faintly tinged externally and on margins of lobes with violet not lined within throat.
Posterior lobes united twothirds their length their free portions erectrecurved.
Sterile filament distally densely bearded with short lemonyellow hairs.
Capsule not seen.
Open woodlands in loam soil western Tennessee and northern Alabama.
Ranges north to Illinois and west to Oklahoma.
Pennell Alabama  9753.
19.
CHELONE Linng.
 Chelone L. Sp.
PL 611.
1753.
Type species C. glabra L. Leafblades sessile and somewhat clasping 1.
C. cuthhertii.
Leaf blades manifestly petioled.
Leaf blades of a lanceolate type narrowed to short petioles.
Corolla creamwhite whitelanose wnthin the throat.
Sepals obscurely or not cihate.
2.
C. glabra.
Leafblades of an ovate type slightly cordate or narrowed into petioles 1.53 cm.
long.
Corolla rosepurple yellowlanose within the throat.
Sepals evidently ciliate.
3.
C. lyonii.
1.
Chelone cuthbertii Small.
Chelone cuthbertii Small Fl.
S. E. Un.
St. 1058 1337.
1903.
Type Highlands N. C Cuthbert no.
283 in N. Y.
B. G. Type collected in flower August 1897 in a wet meadow at an altitude of 3800 feet seen in Herb.
New York Botanical Garden.
Wet meadows western North Carolina.
Little known and the relation between this and C. glabra should be studied in the field.
Flowering in August.
Not seen growing.
2.
Chelone glabra L. Chelojie glabra L. Sp.
PI.
611.
1753.
Habitat in Virginia Canada.
Based upon a plant grown in the Clifford Garden in Holland.
Description sufficiently distinctive.
Wet meadows and woodland swamps through the southern Appalachians and Piedmont common northward descending into 18 the Coastal Plain in rivervalleys reaching Florida probably near the Apalachicola River.
Ranges from Newfoundland to Manitoba south to northern Florida and Kansas.
Flowering in late September and October fruiting probably in October and November.
Corolla creamwhite more or less pinktinged within posterior lip on anterior lobes and laterally along anterior lip occasionally entirely pink.
The forma tomentosa Raf.
Pennell in Torreya 19 117.
1919 with leaves tomentose or pubescent beneath is to be looked for in our area.
3.
Chelone lyonii Pursh.
Chelone lyonii Pursh Fl.
Amer.
Sept. 2 737.
1814.
''In Upper Carolina and Georgia.
Lyon.
.
.
.
v. s. in Herb.
Lambert.
Chelone major Sims Bot.
Mag.
44 pi.
1864.
1816.
Introduced by the late Mr. Lyons from Carolina.
.
.
.
Communicated by Mr. Lambert from Boyton .
.
.
Obviously of the same origin as C. lyonii Pursh and with a distinctive illustration.
Chelone latifolia Muhl.
 Ell. Sketch Bot.
S. C. and Ga. 2 127.
1822.
This plant .
.
.
was discovered ... by Mr. Lyon along the base of the mountains of Carohna but principally in Burke County N. C. Description obviously of the species now considered.
Described as having ovate leafblades tapering at base in contrast to the cordate blades of C. lyonii Pursh.
This species shows complete gradation in leafform between these two states.
Moist mountainwoodland eastern Appalachians North Carolina and Tennessee said to occur southward to northeastern Alabama.
 Flowering from midJuly to midSeptember fruiting in September and October.
Not seen growing.
20.
SCROPHULARIA Linne.
Scrophularia L. Sp.
PI.
619.
1753.
Type species S. nodosa L. of Europe.
1.
Scrophularia marilandica L. Scrophularia marilandica L. 1. c. 619.
1753.
Habitat in Virginia.
Based upon a plant grown in the Upsala Garden which from the description in the Hortus Up.salensis 177 1748 would appear to have been the species now considered.
Open woodland loam soil Appalachians and Piedmont both east and west of the mountains.
Ranges from Massachusetts southern Ontario and eastern Nebraska south to Florida central Alabama and Arkansas.
 Reported from Jackson Co. Alabama by Mohr Contrib.
Nat.
Herb.
6 718.
1901. '
Reported from Quincy Florida by A. W. Chapman in West.
Jour.
Med.
and Surg.
3 473.
1845 and from the Marianna Red Lands of northern Florida by R. M. Harper Fla. Geol.
Surv.
Rep. 6 199.
1914.
Flowering in July and August fruiting in August and September.
Corolla externally palegreenish on posterior side brownish within purplebrown on posterior side on and below posterior lobes and posterior half of anterolateral lobes anteriorly elsewhere palegreenish.
Sterile filament dark purplebrown.
The northern Scrophularia leporella Bickn. easily distinguished by its yellow sterile filament its more cut leaves and its .
earlier flowering season for fuller contrast see Torreya 19 118 is to be looked for in upland North Carolina and Tennessee.
The type of Scrophularia serrulata Small Fl.
S. E. Un.
St. 1058 1337.
1903 Type Ga. Chapman in Herb.
C. U. appears to be a specimen of the Palsearctic Scrophularia nodosa L. The plant is from the Chapman herbarium but without indication of collector certainly some confusing of data has occurred or perhaps the specimen is from Georgia in the Caucasus.
21.
COLLINSIA NuttaU.
CoUinsia Nutt. Journ.
Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
Phila.
1 190.
1817.
Type species C. verna Nutt.
1.
CoUinsia verna Nutt.
CoUinsia verna Nutt. 1. c. 190. pi.
8.
1817.
On descending the Ohio .
.
.
nearly to Galiopolis ...
I recognized it on the more open alluvions of the river withered and nearly past aflfording seed.
.
.
.
From these seeds ...
I have been fortunate enough to obtain the plant from which the accompanying drawing was taken by .
.
.
M. C. A.
Le Sueur.
Type seen in Herb.
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Moist woods alluvial riverbottoms in central or western Tennessee.
Ranges from western New York to southern Minnesota south to Tennessee and Missouri.
Flowering in late April and early May and soon ripening fruit.
Not seen growing.
22.
RUSSELIA Jacquin.
Rxissellia Jacq. Enum.
PI.
Carib.
25.
1760.
Type species R. sarmentosa Jacq. of Cuba.
1.
Busselia juncea Zucc.
Occasional in pineland and hammock Dade County southern Florida.
Escaped from gardens.
Introduced from Mexico.
23.
ANGELONIA Humboldt  Bonpland Angelonia H.  B. PI.
Aequin.
2 92. pl.
108.
1809.
Type species A. salicariaefolia H.  B. of Venezuela.
 Reported from western North Carolina by Hyams N. C. Coll.
A.
 M. Arts Bull.
164 326.
1899.
1.
Angelonia angustifolia Benth.
Occasional in pineland Dade County southern Florida.
Escaped from gardens.
Introduced from Mexico.
24.
LINARIA Miller.
Linaria Mill. Gard.
Diet.
ed.
IV.
1754.
Type species Antirrhinum linaria L. of Europe.
Corolla excluding spur 412 mm.
long blue posterior lip erect anterior lip broadly spreading but not forming a definite raised palate.
Capsule 23.5 mm.
long equaling to exceeding the sepals.
Seeds .3.4 mm.
long cylindric prismaticangled not winged.
Stem less leafy the younger stems spreadingprostrate from base.
Leptoplectron.
Pedicels glandularpubescent longer than the corollas.
Spur very short.
1.
L. fioridana.
Pedicels nearly glabrous shorter than the corollas.
Spur slender.
Corolla less than 8 mm.
long excluding the spur.
Surface of seeds smooth to slightly tuberculate.
2.
L. canadensis.
Corolla over 10 mm.
long excluding the spur.
Surfaces and angles of seed densely tuberculate.
3.
L. texana.
Corolla excluding spur 1518 mm.
long yellow posterior lip arched over anterior anterior lip forming a conspicuous protruding orange palate spur stout.
Capsule 10 mm.
long much exceeding the sepals.
Seeds 1.7 mm.
long flattened and circularly broadly winged.
Stem densely leafy always erect.
4.
L. linaria.
1.
Linaria fioridana Chapm.
Linaria fioridana Chapm. Fl.
S. Un.
St. 290.
1860.
Drifting sands near the coast West Florida.
Several specimens collected by Dr. Chapman at Apalachicola seen in Herb.
New York Botanical Garden and Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Dry sandy soil sand ridges along rivers and near the coast southern Georgia to central Florida westward near the Gulf Coast to southern Mississippi.
Flowering in March and April and soon ripening fruit the late flowering and fruiting plants persisting through May.
Corolla lightblue the palate paler.
Pennell Florida 9579 9581.
2.
Linaria canadensis L. Dum.Cours.
Antirrhinum canadense L. Sp.
PI.
618.
1753.
Habitat in Virginia Canada.
Type probably from southern New Jersey and certainly the species now considered.
For discussion see Torreya 19 151.
1919.
Linaria canadensis Dum.Cours.
Bot.
Cult.
2 96.
1802.
Lieu Le Canada la Virginie.
Doubtless based upon Antirrhinum canadense L. Open sandy soil usually a weed mostly common in the Atlantic Coastal Plain south to central Florida intergrading somewhat with L. texana in Georgia and Florida  in the Piedmont on the Granite of the Carolinas and central Georgia and on other sandysoils where probabh' introduced inland to the southern Appalachians.
Ranges northward to Massachusetts.
Westward and inland at occasional stations where probably introduced.
Flowering from March to May and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla purplishblue the palate pale to white.
Occasionally a pinkflowered form occurs.
Pennell Georgia 9502.
Florida 9533 9536 9577 9701.
3.
Linaria texana Scheele.
Linaria texana Scheele Linnaea 21 761.
1848.
Zwischen Houston und Austin Texas haufig Romer.
Description sufficiently distinctive.
Open sand or sandy loam frequently a weed in the Coastal Plain from South Carolina to southern Mississippi probably more common westward.
Ranges widely through western North America and into South America.
Probably Linaria canadensis is a derivative of this.
Flowering from March to May and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla paleblue reticulateveined with slightly darker color essentially as in L. canadensis but larger throughout.
Pennell Georgia 9512 9521.
Alabama 9724 9727.
4.
Linaria linaria L. Karst.
Linaria vulgaris Mill.
Loam or sandy soil fields and waste ground a weed mostlj' above the Fallline probably common northward.
Naturalized from Eurasia.
25.
KICKXIA Dumortier.
Kickxia Dum. Fl.
Belg.
35.
1827.
Type species.
Antirrhinum elatine L. of Europe.
Leafblades roundedcordate at base.
Calyxlobes ovate.
1.
K. spuria.
Leafblades hastate.
Calyxlobes lanceolate.
2.
K. elatine.
1.
Kickxia spuria L. Dumort.
Waste places and roadsides occasional eastward.
Naturahzed from Eurasia.
2.
Kickxia elatine L. Dumort.
Waste places roadsides and stonewalls occasional eastward.
Naturalized from Eurasia.
26.
VERONICASTRUM Heister.
Veronicastrum Heist.
 Fabr. Enum.
Meth.
PI.
Hort.
Helmstad.
111.
1759.
Type species Veronica virginica L. 1.
Veronicastrum virginicum L. Farwell.
Veronica virginica L. Sp.
PI.
9.
1753.
Habitat in Virginia.
Grown in the Clifford Garden.
Certainly the species here considered.
Veronicastrum album Moench. Meth.
437.
1794.
.
.
.
Veronica virginica L. Calistachya alba Raf. Med.
Repos.
N. Y. Ilnd Hex.
5 352.
1808.
Based on Veronica virginica L. Type of Calistachya Raf. not Callistachys Vent. 1804.
Eustachya alba Raf.
Raf. Cat.
14.
1824.
Eustachya Raf. Amer.
Mo.
Mag.
4 190.
1819 was a new name for Calistachya Raf.
Preoccupied by Eiistachys Desv. 1810.
Leptandra alba Raf.
Raf. Med.
Fl.
2 21.
1830.
The true V. virginica of L. .
.
.
The most common species being found all over the United States.
Leptandra villosa Raf. 1. c. 21.
1830.
Mr. Schweinitz has found it in North Carolina.
If the state with the leaves pubescent beneath be distinguished as a forma this name should be used.
Veronicastrum virginicum L. Farwell Drugg.
Circ.
61 231.
1917.
Varying in number of leaves in whorl in inflorescence of one or several racemes and in leaves from lanceolate to nearly ovate pubescent to nearly or quite glabrous beneath.
Sandy or loam soil swales or moist meadows hillside thickets through the southern Appalachians and Piedmont both east and west of the mountains apparently scarce rarely descending into the Coastal Plain.
Ranges from Connecticut and Ontario and Minnesota south to Mississippi and Texas.
Flowering in August fruiting in September.
Corolla white throughout anthers brown.
27.
VERONICA Linne.
Veronica L. Sp.
PI.
9.
1753.
Type species V. officinalis L. of Europe.
Flowers solitary axillary frequently approximating so as to form a terminal raceme.
Leaves alternate through the inflorescence.
Pedicels longer than the sepals usually exceeding the bracts.
Sepals ovate.
Capsule turgid.
Seeds few 1.33 mm.
long convexarched roughened.
Leaves petioled rarely the uppermost sessile primarily palmately 57 nerved the midvein usually with some radiating pinnate veins mainly alternate the lower sometime opposite.
Leaves broadly cordate 35 lobed the lobes rounded.
Sepals broadly ovate conspicuously ciliate.
Capsule very turgid scarcely notched at apex only slightly 2lobed.
Seeds 2.53 mm.
long blackish.
L V. hederaefolia.
Leaves ovate serrate to dentate.
Sepals more shortly ciliate.
Capsule slightly flattened deeply notched at apex thus strongly twolobed.
Seeds L3L5 mm.
long brown.
Petals not exceeding the ovate sepals.
Capsulelobes rounded the most distal point of each about midway between the style and the lateral margin.
2.
V. agrestis.
Petals exceeding the narrowly ovate sepals.
Capsulelobes acutish the most distal point of each near the lateral margin.
3.
T persica.
Pedicels shorter than sepals or bracts.
Sepals linear to narrowly ovate.
Capsule flattened.
Seeds many less than 1 mm.
long flat smooth or nearly so.
Leaves sessile or the lower petioled scarcely palmate alternate only through the inflorescence.
Perennial.
Repent with ascending stems.
Leaves oval or ovate obscurely crenate.
Inflorescence spikelike restricted to the distal portion of the stem.
Sepals ovate.
Corolla white with blue lines on posterior side.
Capsule retuse or shallowly notched glandularpubescent.
4.
V. serpylli folia.
Annuals.
Erect much branched beloAv.
Most leafaxils flowerbearing.
Sepals lanceolate to linear.
Capsule deeply notched.
Lower stemleaves ovate crenateserrate the lowermost frequently petioled.
Corolla deep violetblue.
Capsule pubescent with slightly glandtipped hairs.
Plant pubescent with glandless hairs.
5.
V. arvensis.
Lower stemleaves oblanceolate entire or distally remotely toothed all sessile.
Corolla whitish throughout.
Capsule glabrous.
Plant glabrous or with short glandtipped hairs.
Plant glabrous.
6.
V. peregrina.
Plant pubescent with glandtipped hairs.
6a.
V. peregrina xalapensis.
Flowers all in axillary smallbracted racemes.
Leaves opposite throughout.
Perennials.
Capsule glandularpubescent strongly twolobed longer than the sepals.
Stems pedicels leaves and sepals pubescent.
Leaves oval crenateserrate narrowed to a petiolar base.
Extensively repent at apex ascending.
Plant of dry soil.
7.
V. officinalis.
Capsule glabrous scarcely or not twolobed equaling the sepals.
Plant glabrous or with scattered glandtipped hairs.
Leaves oblongovate to broadly lanceolate obscurely crenateserrate.
Ascending or wholly erect.
Aquatics.
Stem distally rhachis and pedicels glabrous.
Leaves oblongovate all petioled mostly emersed.
Racemes usually 1025 flowered.
Plant emersed.
8.
V. americana.
Stem distally rachis and pedicels sparsely pubescent with glands borne upon jointed stalks.
Leaves lanceolate clasping.
Racemes usually 2550 flowered.
Plant nearly submersed.
9.
V. glandifera.
1.
Veronica hederaefolia L. Waste places mostly near cities occasional.
Naturalized from Eurasia.
2.
Veronica agrestis L. Waste places and fields mostly near cities occasional.
Naturalized from Eurasia.
3.
Veronica persica Poir.
Fields roadsides and waste places occasional or local.
Naturalized from Eurasia.
Corolla with tube and base of lobes white anterior lobes pale lateral darker posterior sky blue lobes all with blue longitudinal veins.
4.
Veronica serpyllifolia L. Fields thickets and waste places common at least northward.
Naturalized from Eurasia.
Corolla white or nearly so on posterior side with blue lines.
5.
Veronica arvensis L. Fields cultivated soil and waste ground common at least northward.
Naturalized from Eurasia.
Corolla with all lobes deep skyblue whitish at base veined with deeper skyblue.
6.
Veronica peregrina L. Veronica peregrina L. Sp.
PI.
14.
1753.
Habitat in Europae hortis arvisque.
Described as the specific name would suggest from specimens of an introduced plant.
Fields and cultivated soil especially where moist common.
Certainly American in origin but now wholly weedlike.
Corolla uniformly dullwhite.
Pennell Florida 9712.
Alabama 9725 9758.
6a.
Veronica peregrina xalapensis H.B.K.
Pennell.
Veronica xalapejisis H. B. K. Nov. Gen. et Sp.
2 389.
1817.
Crescit in Regno Mexicano prope Xalapa alt.
630 hex.
ca.
1200 m. in nemoribus Liquidambaris Styracifluae.
Veronica peregrina xalapensis H. B. K. Pennell Torreya 19 167.
1919.
Occasional in cultivated soil.
In the western half of the continent this glandularpubescent variety quite replaces true peregrina.
In the East it is only occasionally seen and that probably as an introduction.
7.
Veronica officinalis L. Dry fields open woods and stony hillsides common at least northward.
Naturalized from Eurasia.
Corolla very pale lavender on posterior side with seven lavenderblue lines.
8.
Veronica americana Schwein.
Veronica americana Schwein. Benth.
in DC.
Prod.
10 468.
1846.
Veronica americana Schweinitz
mss..
...
In America boreali a Canada et Carolina usque ad flum.
Oregon et in ins.
Sitcha .
.
.
v.
s..
Specimen seen in Herb.
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia labeled Bethl.
Bethlehem Pennsylvania collected by Schweinitz may be of collection sent Bentham.
Springheads in woodland and along streams in the southern Appalachians of North Carolina and eastern Tennessee in the Piedmont of South Carolina likely occasional in this zone both east and west of the mountains.
Ranges from Quebec to Alaska south to South Carolina New Mexico and California.
Flowering from June to August and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla paleblue distally with few rather faint deeperblue lines.
9.
Veronica glandifera Pennell.
Veronica glandifera Pennell Torreya 19 170.
1919.
Type vicinity of Suffolk Nansemond County Virginia collected in flower and fruit May 27 1893 N. L. Britton and J. K. Small in herbarium Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden.
Shallow flowing streams mostly in calcareous soil Appalachians of North Carolina and eastern Tennessee.
Ranges from New Jersey to North Carolina Minnesota and Kentucky.
Flowering in June and July and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla paleblue with few deeperblue lines.
28.
MACR ANTHER A Torrey.
Macranthera Torr.
 Benth. Comp.
Bot.
Mag.
1 174.
1836.
Type species Conradia fuchsioides Nutt.
1.
Macranthera flanunea Bartram Pennell.
Gerardia flammea Bartram Trav.
410.
1791.
Stony gravelly heights along Tensaw River near Taensa In Alabama.
No type known to exist.
Identified by Mohr in Contr.
U. S. Nat.
Herb.
6 15.
1901.
Conradia fuchsioides Nutt. Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
7 88. pi.
12.
1834.
No locality given.
T3'pe without data seen in Herb.
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Type of genus Conradia Nutt. not Conradia Mart. 1829.
Macranthera lecontei Torr. Ann.
Lye.
Nat.
Hist.
N. Y.
4 80. pi.
4.
1837.
In dry pine woods on the Alatamaha in Liberty County Georgia Major Le Conte
Type without data seen in Herb.
Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden.
Dasystoma tubulosa Bertol. Mem.
Accad.
Sci.
Instit.
Bologna 4 75. pi.
4.
1853.
Ex Alabama Dr.
Gates.
Probable isotypes seen in Herb.
New York Botanical Garden Herb.
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and Gray Herbarium.
Macranthera flammea Bartram Pennell Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 40 124.
1913.
Borders of wet sandy thickets in the Coastal Plain southern Georgia and northern Florida to eastern Louisiana.
Flowering from August to October fruiting September and October.
Corolla orange throughout.
Pennell Florida 4564 4595 4681.
Alabama 4406 4459 4462 4534 4553 4641.
29.
DASISTOMA Raflnesque.
Dasistoma Raf. Journ.
de Phys.
89 99.
1819.
Type species D. aurea Raf. of Kentucky.
1.
Dasistoma macrophylla Nutt.
Raf.
Seymeria macrophylla Nutt. Gen. N. Amer.
PI.
2 49.
1818.
Hab.
In shady alluvial soils of the banks of the Little Miami near the town of Lebanon.
In Ohio.
Specimen in Kew Herbarium labeled Ohio Nuttall misit Mart.
1824 may stand as the type this seen.
Dasistoma macrophylla Nutt.
Raf. New Fl.
Amer.
2 67.
1837.
Brachygyne macrophylla Nutt.
Small Fl.
S. E. Un.
St. 1073 1338.
1903.
Type of genus Brachygyne Small.
Sandy to clay soil mostly in rich woods usually along streams western North Carolina  central Tennessee and northern Alabama.
Ranges from Ohio to eastern Nebraska south to northern Alabama and northeastern Texas.
Flowering in July and August fruiting August and September.
Corolla yellow externally tinged or marked with purplered.
30.
AFZELIA .1.
F. Gmelin.
Afzelia J. F.
Gmel. Syst.
927.
1791.
Type species Anonymos cassioides Walt.
Stem closely pubescent viscid.
Leaf segments lanceolate or broader.
Calyxlobes lanceolate.
Corolla deepyellow externally pubescent its lobes ovate 33.5 mm.
wide.
Distal portion of filament and connective of anther lanose.
Anthersacs opening onefifth to onefourth length.
Capsule ovate 67 mm.
long densely tomentose with short brown more or less glandular hairs.
Seeds winged.
Plant low 26 dm.
tall widely branched.
Stem lanose to pubescent with reflexedincurved to appressed hairs.
Pedicels 67 mm.
long.
Capsule densely glandulartomentose with hairs darkjointed some of them glandularknobbed at tip.
Seeds 11.2 mm.
long.
1.
A. pedinata.
Stem finely pubescent to puberulent in lines with ascendingincurved to appressed hairs.
Pedicels 710 mm.
long.
Capsule less tomentose to nearly glabrous with hairs slightly darkjointed most or all of them glandularknobbed at tip.
Seeds 1.21.4 mm.
long.
la.
A. pectinata pemnsuJaris.
Stem sparingly pubescent with ascendingincurved hairs scarcely glandular.
Leafsegments filiform.
Calyxlobes linear.
Corolla paleyellow externally glabrous its lobes lanceolate 1.52 mm.
wide.
Distal portion of filament and connective of anther glabrous.
Anthersacs opening onesixth to onefifth length.
Capsule urceolateacuminate 44.5 mm.
long glabrous.
Seeds not winged .5.7 mm.
long.
Plant 510 dm.
tall virgately branched.
2.
A. cassioides.
8 Reported from western North Carolina by Hyams N. C. Coll.
A.
 M. Arts Bull.
164 327.
1899.
1.
Afzelia pectinata Pursh Kuntze.
Seymeria peclinata Pursh Fl.
Amer.
Sept. 2 737.
1814. 
In South Carolina.
Catesby.
v. s. in Herb.
Sherard.
Type not seen but description distinctive.
Seymeria jacksoni Ell. Sketch Bot.
S. C. and Ga. 2 123.
1824.
Sent to me from Louisville Ga. by Mr.
Jackson.
Tjpe seen in the Elliott Herbarium at the Charleston Museum.
Seymeria heterophyla Raf. New Fl.
Amer.
2 68.
1837.
Alabama and Georgia my specimen from Le Conte.
Type not known to exist.
Afzelia pectinata Pursh Kuntze Rev.
Gen. 1 457.
1891.
Dry sandy longleaf pineland in the Coastal Plain from South Carolina to Louisiana south in the Florida peninsula to Brevard County inland reported from the Pine Mountains of Meriwether County Georgia 1 and from the metamorphic region of northeastern Alabama.
'2 Flowering in August and September fruiting September and October.
Corolla deep goldenyellow more or less marked with purple red within throat and at the bases of the lobes.
Pennell Georgia 4732 4760 4780 4845.
Florida 4568 4585 4645 4656 4674 4686 4705 4715 4802.
Alabama 4630. la.
Afzelia pectinata peninsularis Pennell var.
nov.
Stem 46 dm.
tall finely glandularpubescent to puberulent in lines with ascendingincurved to appressed hairs.
Leaves glandularpubescent to puberulent those of the stem 12 cm.
long 58 mm.
wide.
Pedicels in flower 5 mm.
long in fruit 710 mm.
long.
Caljoclobes 4.
5. mm.
long.
Corolla 8 mm.
long its tube 33.5 mm long its lobes 4.5 mm.
long.
Style 45 mm.
long.
Capsule minutel' glandularpubescent with hairs slightly darkjointed most or all with terminal knoblike glands.
Seeds 1.21.4 mm.
long.
Type flat woods Marco Lee Co. Florida collected in fruit JulyAugust 1900 A. S. Hitchcock 254 in United States National Herbarium.
Flat longleaf pineland or hammocks southern Florida.
Flowering June to August probably flowering and fruiting throughout the year.
2.
Afzelia cassioides Walt.
J. F. Gmel.
Anonymos cassioides Walt. Fl.
Carol.
171.
1788.
Presumably from lower South Carolina.
Description sufficiently distinctive.
Afzelia cassioides Walt.
J. F.
Gmel. Syst.
927.
1791.
Gerardia afzelia Michx. Fl.
Bor.
Amer.
2 20.
1803.
New name for Afzelia cassioides Walt.
Gmel.
Seymeria tenuifolia Pursh Fl.
Amer.
Sept. 737.
1814.
New name for Gerardia cassioides Walt.
Pers. 
Reported from lower North Carolina collected by Croom see M. A. Curtis Bot.
N. C. .39.
1867. 
Harper Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 36 587.
1909. iEarle Ala. Agric.
Exp.
Sta. Bull.
119 104.
1902.
Moist or dry pineland usually in sandy soil in the Coastal Plain from North Carolina to Florida and Louisiana in the Florida peninsula south to Manatee County inland to the mountains of northern Georgia northern Alabama and eastern Tennessee also on the Bahamas.
Flowering from September to midOctober and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla paleyellow more or less marked with purple red within throat and at the bases of the lobes.
Pennell North CaroUna 4900 4919.
South Carohna 4866 4872 4878.
Georgia 4725 4743 4762 4809 10173.
Florida 4588 4649 4653 4678 4691 4713 4719 9647.
Alabama 4552 4639.
Louisiana 4217.
31.
AUREOLARIA Raflnesque.
Aureolaria Raf. New Fl.
Amer.
2 58.
1837.
Type species Aureolaria villosa Raf.
Annuals.
Stem leaves and calyx glandular.
Leaves bipinnatifid more or less pectinately cut.
Calyx lobes dentate to pectinate.
Corolla externally glandularpubescent within pubescent below posterior sinus and over bases of posterior lobes more or less marked or tinged with purplered.
Anthersacs 2.54 mm.
long.
Capsule ellipsoid to broadlyovoid in outline glandular.
puberulent to pubescent.
Seeds .81 mm.
long not winged.
Panctenis Raf.
Leaves less sharply cut with mostly rounded teeth puberulent to somewhat glandularpubescent.
Pedicels 1028 mm.
long.
Calyxtube turbinate glandularpuberulent externally.
Capsule narrowly to broadly ellipsoid 915 mm.
long onehalf to twothirds enclosed in the calyxtube.
Seeds .8 mm.
long.
Stem closely pubescent above not or slightly glandular.
Leaves puberulent not or slightly glandular.
Calyxlobes 810 mm.
long.
Capsule narrowly ellipsoid 911 mm.
long.
Leaves 36 cm.
long more strongly cut incisions extending mostly about twothirds distance to midrib not or scarcely glandular.
Pedicels permanently more or less glandularpubescent.
Calyxtube 45 mm.
long.
Stem closely pubescent not or scarcely glandular above.
1.
A. pedicular ia.
Leaves 23.5 cm.
long less cut incisions extending mostly about onehalf distance to midrib slightly glandular.
Pedicels tending to become nearly glabrous.
Calyxtube 57 mm.
long.
Stem from nearly glabrous to slightly glandular.
la.
A. pedicularia carolinensis.
Stem glandularpubescent to hirsute above.
Leaves glandularpuberulent to pubescent.
Calyxlobes 1016 mm.
long relatively deeply lobed.
Capsule broadly ellipsoid 1114 mm.
long.
lb.
A. pedicularia austromontana.
Leaves more sharply cut with acute or acutish teeth glandularpubescent to villose.
Pedicels 420 mm.
long.
Calyxtube hemispheric glandularhirsute to lanose.
Capsule broadly ovoid 1116 mm.
long only its base enclosed in the calyxtube.
Seeds 1 mm.
long.
Stem stiffly branched.
Leaves all spreading the upper smaller but not excessively reduced those of the stem 26 cm.
long.
Pedicels 420 mm.
long conspicuous when in flower.
Calyxtube glandularhirsute to lanose.
Corolla 3040 mm.
long.
Anthersacs ovate.
2.
A. pectinata.
Stem virgately branched.
Leaves at least the upper appressedascending uppermost leaves very much reduced those of the stem 1.53 4 cm.
long.
Pedicels 49 mm.
long usually very short when in flower.
Calyxtube glandularlanose.
Corolla 3845 mm.
long.
Anthersacs lanceolateovate 2a.
A. pectinata floridana.
Perennials.
Not glandular.
Leaves entire to somewhat coarsely bipinnatifid not pectinately cut.
Calyxlobes entire to dentate.
Corolla externally glabrous within glabrous or difTusedpubescent not marked nor tinged with purplered.
Anthersacs 46 mm.
long.
Capsule ovate to globose ovate in outline not glandular.
Seeds 1.32.7 mm.
long strongly winged.
Aweolaria sensu strictu.
Capsule densely rustypubescent.
Pedicels 1.53 mm.
long.
Stem puberulent to pubescent at least above.
Stem puberulent to pubescent throughout.
Leaves permanently downypubescent.
Capsule 1215 mm.
long.
Seeds 1.51.8 mm.
long 3.
A. virginica.
Stem glabrous below more or less puberulent above.
Leaves puberulent becoming glabrous.
Capsule 912 mm.
long.
Seeds 1.31.5 mm.
long.
4.
A. ynicrocarpa.
Capsule glabrous.
Pedicels 325 mm.
long.
Stem glabrous to minutely puberulent.
Bracts entire to finely crenateserrate.
Pedicels slender 1525 mm.
long.
5.
A. patula.
Bracts entire to coarsely dentate.
Pedicels stouter 315 mm.
long.
Lower leaves ovatelanceolate in general outline widest about the middle not longacuminate.
Petioles evident mostly 1030 mm.
long.
Pedicels 515 mm.
long.
Calyx densely pubescent within.
Corolla 3560 mm.
long.
Capsule 1224 mm.
long.
Seeds 22.7 mm.
long.
Stem relatively stout frequently purple.
Stem finely puberulent not glaucous.
Pedicels and calyx externally puberulent.
Anthersacs ovate.
6.
A. dispersa.
Stem glabrous glaucous.
Pedicels and calyx externally glabrous.
Anthersacs ovatelanceolate.
Stem slightly glaucous.
Lower leaves from nearly entire to more or less dentate or cut rarely  distance to midrib.
7a.
A. flava reticulata.
Stem quite glaucous.
Lower leaves more or less pinnately cut lowermost somewhat bipinnatifid mostly over I distance to midrib.
7.
A. flava.
Lower leaves lanceolate to ovatelanceolate widest below the middle longacuminate.
Petioles very short less than 10 mm.
long.
Pedicels 38 mm.
long.
Calyx sparingly pubescent to glabrous within.
Corolla 3035 mm.
long.
Capsule 1012 mm.
long.
Seeds 1.51.7 mm.
long.
Stem slender rarely purplish not puberulent nor glaucous.
8 A. laevigata.
1.
Aureolaria pedicularia L. Raf.
Gerardia pedicularia L. Sp.
PI.
611.
1753.
Habitat in Virginia Canada.
Type not verified but description sufficiently distinctive.
Aureolaria pedicularia Raf. New Fl.
Amer.
2 61.
1837.
Dry oakwoods sandy or rocky perhaps in the Piedmont of North Carolina.
1 Ranges from Maine to Virginia and Minnesota.
Flowering in August and September fruiting September and October.
Corolla yellow externally more or less tinged with reddish within at times with some purplered spotting.
la.
Aureolaria pedicularia carolinensis Pennell.
Aureolaria pedicularia carolinensis Pennell Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 40 413.
1913.
''Type savannahs near Mill Pond Wilmington Xorth Carolina June 23 1909 J. M. Macfarlane in Herb.
University of Pennsylvania.
Dry sandy oak and mixed woods pine barrens of southeastern North Carolina.
Pennell North Carolina 4925. lb.
Aureolaria pedicularia austromontana Pennell var.
no v. Stem glandularpubescent to hirsute above with spreading short hairs and among these usually outnumbering them and exceeding them in length gland tipped hairs so that stem is very glandular.
Leafblades tending to lanceolate ovate mostly deeply and sharply cut finely puberulent with gland tipped hairs more rarely evidently glandularpubescent.
Pedicels in flower 1020 mm.
long in fruit 12 1825 mm.
long.
Calyx relatively sparingly pubescent with glandtipped hairs its lobes 1016 mm.
long linearlanceolate to lanceolate relatively deeply lobed.
Capsule 1114 mm.
long broadly ellipsoid.
' Aureolaria pedicularia caesariensis Pennell Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 40 413 1913 with leaves 1.25 cm.
long pedicels longer than bracts and stem not glandular hirsute below has been found in woodland in Orange Co. X. C. Tjpe Biltmore North Carolina collected in flower August 27 1897 Biltmore Herbarium 481 in United States National Herbarium.
Dry oak or mixed woodland on mountainslopes eastern and western Appalachians from southwestern Virginia and southeastern Kentucky to northern Georgia.
This differs from Aureolaria pedicularia amhigens Fernald Farwell of the southern Lake region in its leaves narrower more deeply and sharply cut and its calyxlobes longer and more deeply lobed.
Pennell Tennessee  5725.
2.
Aureolaria pectinata Nutt.
Pennell.
Gerardia pedicularia pectinata Nutt. Gen. PI.
N. Amer.
2 46.
1818.
Hab.
In the sandy pine forests of Carolina and Georgia.
Specimen of Nuttall's collecting in the British Museum labeled Gerardia millefolia S.
Carol.
may represent the type.
It is determined by Dr. S. Moore as the form now considered agreeing with my number 5638 from Louisiana.
Aureolaria pectinata Nutt.
Pennell Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 40 414.
1913.
Dry sandy pine and oak lands especially hilly through the Coastal Plain from South Carolina to northwestern Florida and Louisiana extending inland on sandy soils as the granite of central Georgia to westernmost North Carolina and eastern Tennessee and through the Mississippi Valley westward in our area.
Ranges northwestward to Kentucky and southern Missouri.
The inland forms have larger leaves and fruit and probably represent several geographic varieties an enumeration of which will be given in the writer's Agalinis and Allies in North America.
Flowering from July to October fruiting in September and October.
Corolla yellow externally more or less tinged with reddish within not marked with purple red.
Pennell Georgia066 5694 5695 5700 5708 5713.
Alabama 4532 4625 5689.
Tennessee 5707 5716.
2b.
Aureolaria pectinata floridana Pennell.
Aureolaria pectinata floridana Pennell Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 40 414.
1913.
Type Fort Gadsden Franklin Co. Florida Sept. 20 1912 F. W. Pennell 4683 in Herb.
University of Pennsylvania.
Dry sandy pineland through the flatwoods of southern Georgia to central Florida.
Pennell Georgia724.
Florida 4683.
3.
Aureolaria virginica L. Pennell.
Rhinanthus virginicus L. Sp.
PI.
603.
1753.
Habitat in Virginia.
Type Clayton 488 is identified by Dr. S. F. Blake in Rhodora 20 66.
1918 as the plant here considered.
Aureolaria villosa Raf. New Fl.
Amer.
2 59.
1837.
No type locality stated nor type known to exist.
Description sufficiently distinctive.
Dasysloma pubescens Benth. in DC.
Prod.
10 520.
1846.
In Americae sept civitatibus orientalibus frequens.
Type not verified but description sufficiently distinctive.
Dasystonm brachycarpa Small Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 28 452.
1901.
The specimens on which this species is based were collected by the writer on the slopes of Stone Mountain Georgia Sept. 612 1894.
Type seen in Herb.
New York Botanical Garden.
Also collected by myself at Stone Mountain Pennell 4050 5692.
The short capsules of this plant are quite within the normal range of variation of Aureolaria virgmica.
Aureolaria virginica L. Pennell Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 40 409.
1913.
Dry open woods usually sandy frequent through the Piedmont and eastern Appalachians south to central Georgia less common through the western Appalachians and Mississippi Vallej of our area occasional in the Coastal Plain south to northern Florida and west to Louisiana.
Ranges from New Hampshire south to Florida and Louisiana.
This species has been long known as Gerardia flava.
Flowering from late May to July fruiting from July to September.
Corolla yellow with no tinge of purplered.
Pennell Georgia 4050 4070 4090 5691 5692 5697 5702.
Tennessee  5724.
4.
Aureolaria microcarpa Pennell sp.
nov. Perennial.
Stem 610 dm.
tall simple or with stiff ascending branches above below glabrous above less or more densely puberulent with recurvedspreading darkjointed hairs.
Petioles more or less defined from the narrowed base of the leaves.
Lower leaves lanceolateovate somewhat deeply and coarsely sinuate lobed or merely shallowly dentate 611 cm.
long 1540 mm.
wide upper leaves gradually smaller and simpler bracts ovate lanceolate leaves above scabrouspuberulent beneath softly puberulent becoming nearly or quite glabrous above dullgreen beneath paler.
Pedicels stout closely pubescent in flower 12 mm.
long in fruit 23 mm.
long.
Calyx externally closely puberulent its tube 35 mm.
long turbinate within puberulent its lobes 3.57 mm.
long lanceolate to spatulateovate acute to acutish.
Corolla 3040 mm.
long its tube inflated ventrally its lobes 510 mm.
long ovateorbicular rounded externally glabrous within sparingly pubescent proximally but glabrous below sinuses of lobes yellow with no tinge of purplered.
Filaments slender flattened posterior 1317 mm.
long anterior 1823 mm.
long all loosely lanose near base and again distally especially close to the apex anthersacs 44.5 mm.
long ovate broadly narrowed at apex into a rigid downcurved awn .8.9 mm.
long sacs lanosepubescent with retrorse white hairs.
Style 2530 mm.
long.
Capsule 912 mm.
long ovate to globoseovate in outline acute to acuminate brownish densely rustypubescent with reflexedappressed brown hairs.
Seeds 1.31.5 mm.
long broadly angularlunate flattened testa gray with reticulations dark produced on outer side into several thin wings  diameter of seed.
Type Stevenson Jackson Co. Alabama collected in fruit October 17 1913 F. W. Pennell 5720 in Herb.
University of Pennsylvania.
Dry oakwoods on siliceous soil southeastern Tennessee to southern Alabama and northwestern Florida especially in the southern Cumberland Mountains.
Flowering from earh June to late August fruiting August to October.
Pennell Georgia 5711.
Alabama 5720 9739 9742.
Tennessee  5703 5706 5715.
5.
Aureolaria patula Chapm.
Pennell.
comb.
nov. Dasystoma patula Chapm.
Bot.
Gaz.
3 10.
1878.
Valley of the Coosa River near Rome Georgia.
Several collections of Chapman's seen one labeled Banks of Horseleg Creek a tributary of the Coosa River in Herb.
New York Botanical Garden may stand as the type.
Wooded bluffs along rivers central and eastern Tennessee and northwestern Georgia.
Flowering from August to October.
Corolla jellow with no tinge of purple red.
Pennell Tennessee  5722.
6.
Aureolaria dispersa Small Pennell.
Dasystoma dispersa Small Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 28 452.
1901.
Louisiana Feliciana Carpenter type in the herbarium of Columbia University.
Type seen in Herb.
Columbia University at the Xew York Botanical Garden.
Aureolaria dispersa Small Pennell Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 40 411.
1913.
Sandy thickets and oakland pineland from southern Alabama to Louisiana.
Flowering in August and September fruiting in October.
Pennell Alabama  4504 4521.
Mississippi  4384.
Louisiana 4117 4245.
7.
Aureolaria flava L. Farwell.
Gerardia flava L. Sp.
PI.
610.
1753.
Habitat in Virginia Canada.
Specimen in Linnean Herbarium identified by Bentham see in Comp.
Bot.
Mag.
1 198.
1836.
Gerardia quercifolia Pursh Fl.
Amer.
Sept. 2 423. pi.
19.
1814.
On the banks of rivers in rich shady places Pensylvania to Carolina.
Tj'pe not verified but description sufficiently distinctive.
Aureolaria flava L. Farwell Rep. Mich. Acad.
Sci.
20 188.
1918.
Oak woodland usually on rocky hillsides loam or sometimes sandy soil nearly throughout above the FallLine common in the 19 southern Appalachians scarcely entering the southern Coastal Plain where it passes into the following variety.
In the southwestern Appalachians and westward largely replaced by several illdefined varieties to be characterized in the writer's monograph of this group.
This species has been known as ''Gerardia virginica and '' Dasy stoma virginica.
Flowering from mid July to midSeptember fruiting late August to October.
Corolla yellow with no tinge of purple red.
Pennell Georgia 4109 5693 5712.
Alabama 5688 9728 9750.
Tennessee  5704 5718.
7a.
Aureolaria flava reticulata Raf.
Pennell comb.
nov. Aureoiaria reticulata Raf. New Fl.
Amer.
2 59.
1837.
Florida and Alabama.
No type known to exist.
Dasy stoma bignoniiflora Small Bull.
N. Y. Bot.
Gard.
1  285.
1899.
Collected by Dr. Burrows at Tampa Bay Florida in 1834.
Type seen in Herb.
Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden.
Sandy ravines and moist woodland in the Coastal Plain from Maryland to central Florida.
Replaces the species in the southern Coastal Plain.
Flowering from lateAugust to midOctober fruiting in September and October Pennell South Carolina 4875.
Georgia 4723 4765.
Florida565 4566 4696 4698 4720 9703.
8.
Aureolaria laevigata Raf.
Raf.
Gerardia levigata Raf. Ann.
Nat.
13.
1820.
It gi'ows on the knob hills of Kentucky the Cumberland mountains and the Alleghany.
Specimen in Herb.
Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden labeled in Rafinesque's handwriting Gerardia  n. sp.
 Kentucky may be the type.
Description sufficiently distinctive.
Aureolaria levigata Raf.
Raf. New Fl.
Amer.
2 59.
1837.
Rocky oakwoods along streams or on mountainsides frequent or common through the Appalachians south to northwestern South Carolina and eastern Tennessee.
Ranges northward to Pennsylvania.
Flowering from late July to early September fruiting in September and October.
Corolla yellow with no tinge of purplered.
Pennell Tennessee 5721 5726 9791.
32.
AGALINIS Raflnesque.
Agalinis Raf. New Fl.
Amer.
2 61.
1837.
Type species A. palustris Raf.
Perennial from a running rootstock.
Pedicels erect.
Corolla slightly fleshy pink with darker spots but with no yellow lines within throat.
Linifolice.
1.
A. Unifolia.
Annuals fibrousrooted.
Pedicels ascending or spreading.
Corolla membranous rosepink mostly with darker spots and two yellow lines within throat on the anterior side.
Corolla with lobes all spreading pubescent within at base of posterior lobes externally more or less pubescent.
Seeds darkbrown.
Plants tending to blacken in drying.
Calyxtube not decidedly reticulate venose.
PurpureoB.
Leaves uniform linear to filiformlinear.
Inflorescence of elongated normal racemes pedicels less than 12 mm.
long.
Seedcoat with darkbrown ridges between which mostly paler and minutely reticulate.
Leaves and calyxlobes obtuse to acutish.
Anthersacs obtuse to acutish at distal apex.
Plant fleshy bushybranched below with elongated racemes above.
Pedicels 512 mm.
long.
2.
A. spiciflora.
Leaves and calyxlobes acute to acuminate.
Anthersacs mucronate to caudate at distal apex.
Plants not fleshy more uniformly branched.
Pedicels .55 8 mm.
long.
Corolla rosepink to pink two yellow lines and almost always darker spots within throat evident.
Capsule 47 mm.
long.
Plants dullgreen or purplish.
Stem smooth or minutely scabrellous.
Axillary fascicles not or slightly developed if present shorter than the leaves.
Seeds .61.5 mm.
long.
Corolla 2038 mm.
long deeper rosepink.
Axillary fascicles slightly developed.
Pedicels 38 mm.
long.
Seeds .91.5 mm.
long areas between reticulations mostly paler and intrareticular lines discernible.
Stem relatively stiffly branched sparingly scabrellous.
Calyxlobes triangularlanceolate to subulate.
Corolla 2038 mm.
long.
3.
A. purpurea.
Stem slender virgately branched glabrous.
Calyxlobes triangularsubulate to subulate.
Corolla 2025 mm.
long.
4.
A. virgata.
Axillary fascicles scarcely or not developed.
Pedicels 23 mm.
long.
Seeds .91 mm.
long areas between reticulations nearly black and no intrareticular lines discernible.
5.
A. pinetorum.
Corolla 1518 mm.
long paler rosepink.
Flowers nearly sessile on pedicels less than 2 mm.
long.
6.
A. harperi.
Stem more or less scabrous.
Axillary fascicles usually abundantly developed mostly equaling the leaves.
Seeds .5.
8 mm.
long.
7.
A.fasciculata.
Corolla lavenderpink no yellow lines nor darker spots evident within throat.
Capsule 3.55 mm.
long.
Plant brightgreen little darkening in drying.
Stem smooth or nearly so.
Axillary fascicles abundantly developed.
8.
A. georgiana.
Inflorescence usually of short or much broken racemes if elongated and normal pedicels over 10 mm.
long usually some flowers by slower or arrested growth of stemapex appearing terminal.
Pedicels 550 mm.
long.
Stem scabrous.
Corolla pubescent within in narrow line lelow sinus of posterior lobes.
Anthersacs strongly mucronatecaudate at distal apex densely lanose with pink hairs on the sides.
Seedcoat with darkbrown reticulations areas between these more or less hexagonal pale and not reticulated.
Stemleaves opposite axillary fascicles abundantly developed.
Pedicels 2540 mm.
long.
Corolla 25 3C im.
long.
9.
A. pulchella.
Stem glabrous or essentially so.
Corolla pubescent within over entire width of basal portions of posterior lobes.
Anthersacs acute to minutely mucronatecaudate at distal apex glabrous over much of dorsal surface.
Seedcoat with darkbrown reticulations areas between these elongated scarcely paler and scarcely or not reticulated.
Stemleaves alternate widening distally slightly fleshy.
Axillary fascicles abundantly developed.
Stigma 3.55.5 mm.
long.
Pedicels 2035 mm.
long.
Corolla 2228 mm.
long.
10.
A.filifolia.
Stemleaves all opposite not widening distally not fleshy.
Axillary fascicles not or scarcely developed.
Stigma 12 mm.
long.
Branches very widely and laxly ascending.
Pedicels 2550 mm.
long very slender four or five times as long as the bracts.
Corolla 1518 mm.
long paler rosepink.
Seeds .3.5 mm.
long.
11.
A. loxa.
Branches more closely and stiffly ascending.
Pedicels 440 mm.
long less than twice as long as the bracts.
Corolla 1530 mm.
long deeper rosepink.
Seeds .5.9 mm.
long.
Leaves 23.5 cm.
long equaling or exceeding the internodes slightly scabrous to glabrous above.
Pedicels 1540 mm.
long longer than the bracts.
Calyxtube 1 the length of the capsule.
Corolla mostly 1725 mm.
long.
Capsule 34 mm.
long.
Seeds .5.6 mm.
long.
Leaves sparingly scabrous to glabrous above.
Leaves narrowly linear to filiform .31.5 mm.
wide.
Racemes mostly somewhat developed so flowers not conspicuously terminal.
Pedicels 1540 mm.
long.
 Calyxlobes .2.5 mm.
long.
Corolla 1825 mm.
long.
Seeds rounded turgid with reticulations very fine relatively close.
12.
A. holmiana.
Leaves filiformsetaceous .1.3 mm.
wide.
Racemes scarcely developed so flowers conspicuously terminal.
Pedicels 1520 mm.
long.
Calyxlobes .1.3 mm.
long.
Corolla 1720 mm.
long.
Seeds angled with reticulations less fine and more remote.
13.
A. stenophylla.
Pedicels 510 15 mm.
long shorter than or equaling the bracts.
Calyxtube f the length of the capsule.
Corolla mostly 2530 mm.
long.
Capsule 45 mm.
long.
Seeds .6.8 mm.
long.
Leaves slightly scabrous above.
Flowers conspicuously terminal.
14.
A. setacea.
Leaves .51.2 cm.
long shorter than the internodes scabrous above.
Corolla 1522 mm.
long.
Stem slightly striatefourangled sparingly scabrellous to glabrous.
Leaves filiform .81.2 cm.
long.
Pedicels 46 mm.
long about equaling the bracts.
Calyxlobes not becoming callose.
15.
A. keyensis.
Stem nearly terete striateridged minutely hispiduloroughened on the ridges.
Leaves linearsubulate .51 cm.
long.
Pedicels 415 mm.
long three to six times the length of the bracts.
Calyxlobes becoming more or less callose.
16.
A. oligophylla.
Leaves dimorphic those near the base of the stem oval ovate spreading the cauline minute scalelike appressed.
Pedicels 1.53 mm.
long many flowers appearing to terminate minute axillary branchlets .
Calyxlobes minute subulate callose.
Corolla 1520 mm.
long.
Stem striatefourangled ridged minutely hispiduloroughened on the ridges often pubescent at base.
17.
A. aphylla.
Seeds yellowishbrown.
Plants not tending to blacken in drying.
Calyxtube evidently reticulatevenose.
Erectce.
Stem evidently striatefourangled simple to modeiately branched.
Leaves linear to nearly filiform 125 cm.
long.
Racemes welldeveloped so flowers not conspicuously terminal.
Stigma 12 mm.
long.
Leaves linear to nearly filiform not widening distally acutish to acuminate.
Corolla with two yellow lines and purple red spots within throat strongly defined.
Capsule globose to globoseovoid somewhat flattened at base.
Leaves 22.5 cm.
long filiformlinear relatively scabrous above.
Pedicels one to three times the length of the bracts.
Corolla 1315 mm.
long.
Seeds .6.8 mm.
long.
18.
A. decemloba.
Leaves 11.5 2 cm.
long linearfiliform to nearly filiform slightly scabrous above.
Pedicels mostly three to eight times the length of the bracts.
Corolla 1520 mm.
long.
Seeds .91.1 mm.
long.
19.
A. tenella.
Leaves linear widening distally acutish to obtuse 11.5 1.8 cm.
long.
Corolla with lines and spots within throat faint or obsolete.
Capsule globoseovoid to globoseelliptic rounded at base.
Corolla 1216 mm.
long.
20.
A. ereda.
Stem nearly terete much branched.
Leaves narrowly linear 23 cm.
long.
Racemes scarcely developed so flowers scattered and conspicuously terminal.
Stigma 23 mm.
long.
Corolla 1218 mm.
long.
21.
A. gattingeri.
Corolla with posterior lobes arched over stamens and style glabrous within at their base.
Tenuifob'ce.
Corolla pubescent externally its posterior lobes about twothirds the length of the anterior minutely ciliate concavearched.
Pedicels if exceeding the bracts less than twice their length.
Corolla 1023 mm.
long rosepink.
Leaves linear.
Corolla 1523 mm.
long.
22a.
A. tenuifolia leucanthera.
Corolla 1015 mm.
long.
Leaves linear 16 mm.
wide those of the stem obviously wider than those of the branches.
Calyxlobes mostly 12 mm.
long.
Capsule mostly 57 mm.
long.
Seeds .71.3 mm.
long with reticulations more pronounced.
Leaves 16 mm.
wide.
22b.
A .
tenuifolia macrophylla.
Calyxlobes mostly less than 1 mm.
long.
Capsule mostly 34 mm.
long.
Seeds .6.9 mm.
long with reticulations very fine.
Leaves 13.5 mm.
wide.
22.
A. tenuifolia.
Leaves linearfiliform to filiform .31 mm.
wide those of the stem scarcely wider than those of the branches.
22c.
4. tenuifolia polyphylla.
Corolla glabrous externally its posterior lobes less than onehalf the length of the anterior conspicuously ciliate flattened.
Pedicels at least three times the length of the bracts.
Leaves filiform those of the stem 1.52 cm.
long.
Racemes welldeveloped so flowers not appearing terminal.
Pedicels 2032 mm.
long three to twelve times the length of the bracts.
Corolla 1518 mm.
long rosepink.
Plant widely much branched.
23.
A. cUvaricata.
Leaves minute triangularsubulate .1.2 cm.
long.
Flowers scattered mostly appearing terminal.
Pedicels 610 mm.
long many times the length of the bracts.
Corolla 1013 mm.
long lavenderpink.
Plant sparingly very laxly branched.
24.
A. filicauUs.
1.
Agalinis linifolia Nutt.
Britton.
Gerardia linifolia Nutt. Gen. PI.
N. Amer.
2 47.
1818.
Hab.
From Wilmington North Carolina to Florida.
Tjpe labeled Carolina and collected by T. Nuttall seen in Herb.
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Agalinis perennis Raf. New Fl.
Amer.
2 63.
1837.
My specimen is from Florida.
Type not known to exist but description quite distinctive.
Agalinis linifolia Nutt.
Britton Britton  Brown 111.
Fl.
ed.
II.
3 209.
1913.
Wet sandy pineland usually about margins of ponds in longleaf pineland in the Coastal Plain from North Carolina to southern Florida and west to Louisiana.
Northward occurs in southern Delaware.
Flowering from midAugust to October fruiting September to November.
Corolla pink with no yellow lines but with diffused purplered spots within throat anteriorly.
Pennell Georgia 4729 4745 4790 4823.
Florida 4600 4648 4654 4666 4690 4714 4794 4807 4813.
2.
Agalinis spiciflora Engelm.
Pennell comb.
nov. Gerardia maritima grandiflora Bentb. Comp.
Bot.
Mag.
1 208.
1836.
Texas Drummond 1st Coll.
Type in Kew Herbarium verified by Dr. N. E. Brown as agreeing with my number 4702 from Florida isotype seen in Herb.
Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden.
Gerardia spiciflora Engelm. Bost.
Journ.
Nat.
Hist.
5 227.
1845.
New name for Gerardia maritima grandiflora Benth.
Gerardia maritima major Chapm. Fl.
S. Un.
St. 300.
1860.
Brackish marshes Apalachicola Florida.
Different collections of this made by Dr. Chapman seen.
Salt marshes along the coast from North Carolina to Texas.
Ranges through the West Indies and on the shore of Yucatan.
Probably not specifically distinct from the northern smaller ally A. maritima Raf.
Raf.
Flowering from March to September and soon ripening fruit in subtropical Florida flowering and fruiting throughout the year.
Corolla pink with two yellow lines and many small purplered spots within throat anteriorly.
Pennell Florida 4702 9550 9561.
3.
Agalinis purpurea L. Pennell.
Gerardia purpurea L. Sp.
PI.
610.
1753.
Habitat in Virginia Canada.
Linnean diagnosis includes longand shortpediceled plants so could include any pink  purple flowered species.
The first citation accompanied by a figure Plukenet's Digitalis virginiana rubra foliis fc facie Antirrhini vulgaris evidently the prevalent plant of the Atlantic seaboard is considered as the type.
Agalinis palustri Raf. New Fl.
Amer.
2 62.
1837.
Near marshes.
.
.
.
From New England to Carolina.
Type not known to exist but characterization evidently of the common species of the Atlantic seaboard.
Agali7iiscorymbosa'Raf..c.G3.
1837.
Carolina and Florida.
Type not known to exist either the species now considered or a near ally.
Agalinis purpurea L. Pennell Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 40 126.
1913.
Moist sandy soil edges of saltmarsh of ponds or of rivers depressions in sanddunes or locally on barren soil common and locally abundant through the Coastal Plain especially near the coast along rivers and sandhills locally absent or replaced by derivitive species in the longleaf pine belt southward in a modified form to extreme southern Florida inland much less frequent although ascending rivervalleys into the southern Appalachians.
Ranges from Massachusetts to Florida Minnesota Nebraska and Texas.
Flowering from midJuly to midSeptember and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla rose pink with two yellow lines and many small diffused purplered spots within throat anteriorly.
Pennell North Carohna 4914 4927 4932 4948.
South Carolina 4850 4854 4869 4876.
Georgia 4735a 4746 4753 4758 4767 4769 4784 4811.
Florida 4703 4799 4806.
Mississippi 4357.
4.
Agalinis virgata Raf.
Agalinis virgata Raf. New Fl.
Amer.
2 62.
1837.
Glades of pine woods in South New Jersey near Mullica Hill etc.
Type not known to exist.
Moist sandy pine barrens in the Coastal Plain south to South Carolina.
Ranges northward to Long Island.
Flowering from September to mid October and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla pink with two yellow lines and diffused purplered spots within throat anteriorly.
Pennell North Carolina 4902 4921.
South Carolina 4877.
 5.
Agalinis pinetorum Pennell.
Agalinis pinetorum Pennell Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 40 424.
1913.
Type St. Marks Wakulla Co. Florida Sept. 261912 F. W. Pennell 4708 in Herb.
University of Pennsylvania.
Agalinis delicatula Pennell 1. c. 425.
1913.
Type Ponce de Leon Holmes Co. Florida Sept. 17 1912 F. W. Pennell 4661 in Herb.
University of Pennsylvania.
A distinctseeming plant with leaves more slender filiform curling in drying and corolla within not spotted with purplered.
Until known from other stations not maintained as a species.
Moist soil in longleaf pineland and on coastal prairie southern Georgia and northern Florida to Louisiana.
Flowering in September and October and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla pink with two yellow lines and purple red spots within throat anteriorly.
Pennell Georgia 4734 4738 4750 4770 4771 4773 4775 4781 4791.
Florida 4661 delicatula 4688 4708 4795.
6.
Agalinis harperi Pennell.
Agalinis harperi Pennell Small Fl.
Miami 167 200.
1913.
Type St. Marks Wakulla County Florida F. W. Pennell 4707.
Type collected September 25 1912 seen in Herb.
University of Pennsylvania.
Ioist sandy pineland and borders of saltmarshes longleaf pineland from southern Georgia south to the Everglades of southern Florida.
Also on the Bahamas.
Flowering northward from midSeptember to October and soon ripening fruit southward flowering and fruiting throughout the year.
Corolla pale rosepink with two yellow lines and small purplered spots mostly along these lines within throat anteriorly.
This has been confused with the northern ''Geiardia paupercula.' Pennell Georgia726 4810.
Florida 4701 4707 4711.
7.
Agalinis fasciculata Ell.
Raf.
Gerardia fasciculata Ell. Sketch Bot.
S. C. and Ga. 2 115.
1822.
Grows principally in lands subject to occasional inundation from the ocean .
.
.
on Eding's Island near Beaufort very common.
Type seen in the Elliott Herbarium at the Charleston Museum.
Agalinis fasciculata Ell.
Raf. New Fl.
Amer.
2 63.
1837.
Moist to dry sandy loam or clay soil in depressions among sanddunes edges of saltmarsh or loam soil in limestone districts the only species of cultivated fields locally common through the Coastal Plain from South Carolina to southern Florida and westward near the Gulf Coast.
Ranges westward to Texas and southern Missouri.
In southern Florida represented by a variant with less scabrous stem.
Flowering from August to October and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla pink with two yellow lines and many diffused purplered spots within throat anteriorly.
Pennell North Carolina 4949.
South Carolina 4849 4860 4863 4868.
Georgia 4735 4740 4747 4751 4755 4761 4766 4772 4792 4818.
Florida 4669 4675 4680 4695 4697 4706 4717 4718 4793 9544 9562.
Mississippi 4356 4370.
Louisiana 4267 4276 4303 4304 4330.
8.
Agalinis georgiana Boynton Pennell.
Gerardia georgiana Boynton Biltm.
Bot.
Stud.
1 148.
1902.
In the pine barrens near Cordele Dooly County Georgia in September 1901. .
.
.
In moist sandy soil in pine barrens.
.
.
.
The type specimens are deposited in the Biltmore Herbarium.
Type collected Sept. 18 1901 seen in the Biltmore Herbarium.
Agalinis georgiana Boynton Pennell Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 40 427.
1913.
Dry sandy or clay soil in longleaf pineland southern Georgia southern Alabama and northern Florida.
Flowering from midto lateSeptember and soon ripening fruit.. Corolla lavenderpink without yellow lines or purplered spots within throat anteriorly.
Pennell Georgia 4728 4739.
Florida 4586 4662 4665 4693.
Alabama 4609 4629 4632.
9.
Agalinis pulchella Pennell.
Agalinis pulchella Pennell Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 40 428.
1913.
Type Ponce de Leon Holmes Co. Florida Sept. 17 1912 F. W. Pennell 4658 in Herb.
University of Pennsylvania.
Dry open sandy longleaf pineland southern Georgia and northern Florida westward to Louisiana.
Flowering in September fruiting in October.
Corolla rosepink with two yellow lines and relatively large longitudinal purplered spots within throat anteriorly.
Pennell Georgia 4731 4776 4779.
Florida 4587 4650 4658 4663 4692.
Alabama 4427 4452 4454 4455 4493 4515 4642.
10.
Agalinis filifolia Nutt.
Raf.
erardayoa Nutt. Gen. PI.
N. Amer.
2 48.
1818.
Hab.
In West Florida.'
Dr.
Baldwyn.
No type in the herbarium of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia but the description is quite distinctive.
Agalinis filifolia Nutt.
Raf. New Fl.
Amer.
2 65.
1837.
Rather dry sandy longleaf pineland in the Coastal Plain from southern Georgia southward to southern Florida.
Flowering in September and early October and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla rosepink with two yellow lines and diffused purplered spots within throat anteriorly.
Pennell Georgia 4741 4752 4785 4821 4828 10174.
Florida 4671 4673 4694 4800 4803.
11.
Agalinis laxa Pennell.
Agalinis laxa Pennell Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 40 431.
1913.
Type Brunswick Glynn Co. Georgia Oct. 10 1912 F. W. Pennell 4824 in Herb.
University of Pennsylvania.
Dry sandy longleaf pineland or more especially on riversandhills and old dunes near the coast.
South Carolina to central Florida.
Flowering in late September and October and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla pink with two yellow lines and especially along these small purplered spots within throat anteriorly.
Pennell South Carolina880.
Georgia 4778 4783 4824.
Florida 4801 4805.
12.
Agalinis holmiana Greene PenneU.
Gerardia holmiana Greene Pittonia 4 52. pi.
10.
1899.
Plentiful in open pine and oak groves along Michigan Avenue south of the Soldiers' Home grounds near Brookland D. C collected by Mr. Holm and the writer 20 Oct. 1898.
Probable type seen in the herbarium of the New York Botanical Garden and I have myself collected the plant at the type station.
Agalinis holmiana Greene Pennell Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 40 429.
1913.
Dry sandy pineland in the Coastal Plain near the coast south to South Carolina and apparently in the sandhills near the FallLine southwestward into Georgia.
Ranges northward to Long Island New York.
Flowering from late August to midOctober and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla rosepink with two yellow lines and especially along these small purple red spots within throat anteriorly.
Pennell North Carolina 4904 4923 4929.
South Carolina 4864.
13.
Agalinis stenophylla Pennell sp.
nov. Plant dullgreen or purplish tending to blacken in drying.
Stem 67 dm.
tall slender with many ascending branches essentially glabrous.
Leaves ascendingspreading filiformsetaceous entire acuminate those of the stem 23 cm.
long .1.3 mm.
wide scabroroughened to glabrous above.
Axillary fascicles scarcely or not developed.
Racemes scarcely elongate often broken usually but one flower of each pair developed 16 flowered.
Pedicels ascending glabrous in flower 812 mm.
long in fruit 1520 mm.
long 22.5 times the length of the bracts some on all the branches appearing terminal.
Caljoctube 2.5 mm.
long hemisphericcampanulate f the length of the capsule truncate its lobes .1.3 mm.
long triangular subulate not callose.
Corolla 1720 mm.
long its tube 1117 mm.
long slightly upcurved its lobes 67 mm.
long rounded to retuse all spreading externally minutely pubescent.
within pubescent below sinus and over entire wndtli of basal portions of posterior lobes  probably rose pink not seen fresh .
Anthersacs 1.72 mm.
long lanceolate acuminate at distal apex lanate with white hairs on the valvular surface.
Style glabrous.
Stigma 1.52 mm.
long.
Capsule 34 mm.
long globose ovoid darkbrown.
Seeds .5.
6 mm.
long testa darkbrown to nearly black with reticulations heavy and relatively remote intrareticular lines not discernible.
Type Tampa Florida collected in flower and young fruit October 1877 A. P. Garber 281  in Herb.
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Known only from the original collection.
14.
Agalinis setacea Walt.
Raf.
Anonymos setacea Walt. Fl.
Car.
170.
1788.
Supposedly from lower South Carolina but probably from much further west.
Type in the British Museum identified by Dr. A.
B. Rendle as agreeing with my number 4757 from Cobb Sumter Co. Georgia.
Gerardia plukenetii Ell. Sketch Bot.
S. C. and Ga. 2 114.
1822.
Grows in wet spungy soils very common between the Oakmulgee and Chatahouchie Rivers.
Type seen in the Elliott Herbarium at the Charleston Museum.
Statement of habitat probably due to confusion with Agalinis 'pinetorum Pennell.
Agalinis setacea Walt.
Raf. New Fl.
Amer.
2 64.
1837.
Gerardia filifolia gatesii Benth. in DC.
Prod.
10 518.
1846.
In Alabama Gates.
Type in the Kew Herbarium identified frum a fragment sent me as this species.
Dry open sandy pineland.
In the Coastal Plain from western Georgia and northern Florida to eastern Mississippi usually in longleaf pineland inland in pinewoods on mountainslopes through northern Georgia and northern Alabama.
Flowering from midSeptember to October and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla rosepink with two jellow lines and many small diffused purplered spots within throat anteriorly.
Pennell Georgia 4757 5710.
Florida 4569 4570 4583 4584 4672.
Alabama 4426 4457 4461 4517 4523 4524 4561 4623 5690.
Mississippi 4382.
15.
Agalinis keyensis Pennell sp.
nov. Plant dullgreen tending to blacken in drying.
Stem at least 7 dm.
tall slender with many spreadingascending branches sparingly scabrellous or glabrous.
Leaves spreading filiform entire acuminate those of the stem lowest not seen .81.2 cm.
long .2.4 mm.
wide scabrous above.
Axillary fascicles none.
Racemes not elongate much broken and but one flower of each pair developed 14 flowered.
Pedicels ascending glabrous in flower 34 mm.
long in fruit 46 mm.
long about equaling the bracts some on all the branches appearing terminal.
Calyxtube 2.53 mm.
long hemispheric  the length of the capsule truncate its lobes .4.6 mm.
long triangularsubulate not becoming callose.
Corolla 1820 mm.
long its tube 1415 mm.
long slightly upcurved its lobes 45 mm.
long truncate to emarginate all spreading externally minutely pubescent within pubescent below sinus and over entire width of basal portions of posterior lobes probably pink not seen fresh.
Anthersacs 2.5 mm.
long lanceolate cuspidate at distal apex lanate with white hairs on the valvular surface.
Style glabrous.
Capsule 33.5 mm.
long globose bi'own.
Seeds .7.9 mm.
long testa darkbrown to nearly black with reticulations rather fine intrareticular lines not discernible.
Type woods.
Pine Key Florida collected in flower and fruit by Mr. Blodgett in herb.
Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden.
Known only from the original station in the Florida Keys.
Not recollected Dr. Small and myself have hunted in vain for this on Pine Key but at the time of our joint visit the season had been unusually dry.
16.
Agalinis oligophylla PenneU.
Gtrardia aphylla grandiflora Benth. Comp.
Bot.
Mag.
1  174.
1836.
Jacksonville Drummond.
Type labeled Jacksonville certainly an error for Louisiana seen in Kew Herbarium.
Gerardia plukenetii microphylla A.
Gray Syn.
Fl.
N. Amer.
II.
1  293.
1878.
Louisiana Drummond Hale.
Type an isotype of Gerardia aphylla grandiflora Benth. seen in Gray Herbarium.
Agalinis oligophylla Pennell Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 40 432.
1913.
New name for Gerardia plukenetii microphylla A.
Gray.
Moist longleaf pineland in the Coastal Plain from southern Mississippi to southeastern Texas.
Flowering from late September to late October and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla rose pink with two yellow lines and mostly along these rather large purplered spots within throat anteriorly.
17.
Agalinis aphylla Nutt.
Raf.
Gerardia aphylla Nutt. Gen. PI.
N. Amer.
2 47.
1818.
Hab.
From North Carolina to Florida where it was first detected by Dr.
Baldwyn.
Type seen in herbarium of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Agalinis microphylla Raf. New Fl.
Amer.
2 65.
1837.
In Florida collected by Le Conte Collins herb..
Type not known to exist.
Agalinis aphylla Nutt.
Raf. 1. c. 65.
1837.
Moist sandy longleaf pineland near the coast North Carolina to northern Florida and Louisiana.
Flowering from midSeptember to early JSFovember and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla pale pink with two yellow lines but without purplered spots within throat anteriorly.
Pennell Georgia 4748 4789 4808 4819.
Florida 4647 4655 4664 4676 4682 4712 4798 4814.
18.
Agalinis decemloba Greene Pennell.
Gerardia decemloba Greene Pittonia 4 51. pi.
9.
1899.
Plant not uncommon about Brookland D. C inhabiting grassy knolls and hillsides bordering on pine woods.
Type probably seen in Herb.
New York Botanical Garden and I have collected the plant at the type station.
Agalinis decemloba Greene Pennell Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 40 434.
1913.
Dry open soil sandy or clay southward on mountain sides locally frequent in the Piedmont and southern Appalachians.
Ranges from southeastern Pennsylvania to northern Alabama but with a very broken distribution and wholly east of the mountains.
Flowering from late August to midOctober and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla pink with two yellow lines and fine purplered spots within throat anteriorly.
Pennell Alabama 5687.
Tennessee 5709.
19.
Agalinis tenella Pennell.
Agalinis tenella Pennell Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 40 434.
1913.
Type Thomasville Th9mas Co. Georgia Sept. 28 1912 F. W. Pennell 4727 in Herb.
University of Pennsylvania.
Dry sandy pineland in the Coastal Plain from South Carolina to northcentral Florida west to Louisiana.
Flowering from midSeptember to midOctober and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla pink with two yellow lines and purplered spots within throat anteriorly.
Pennell South Carolina 4853 4871.
Georgia 4727 4744 4756 4764 4768 4774 4777 4782 4786.
20.
Agalinis erecta Walt.
Pennell.
Anonymos erecta Walt. Fl.
Car.
170.
1788.
Presumably from lower South Carolina no type in the Walter herbarium in the British Museum and only identified as possibly the plant here considered.
Gerardia setacea parvifolia Benth. Comp.
Bot.
Mag.
1 174.
1836.
Jacksonville.
Drummond.
Type in Kew Herbarium verified by Dr. N. E. Brown as agreeing with my number 4659 from Ponce de Leon Florida.
Agalinis obtusifolia Raf. New Fl.
Amer.
2 64.
1837.
West Tennessee Alabama and Florida.
Type not known to exist.
Description and certainly the name belongs to the plant now considered although the Tennessee specimen could hardly belong here.
Agalinis erecta Walt.
Pennell Small Fl.
Florida Keys 133.
1913.
Moist to dry sandy pineland mostly longleaf usually common in the Coastal Plain from.
North Carolina to southernmost Florida and west to Louisiana.
Occurs northward in southward Delaware.
Flowering from early September to midOctober and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla pink with the two yellow lines and purplered spots within throat anteriorly faint oi' absent.
This and related species have been known as ''Gerardia skmneria7ia.
Pennell North Carolina 9 10 4915 4926 4933.
South Carolina870 4879.
Georgia4733.
Florida 4596 4640 4646 4659 4667 4685 4710 4797 4804 4815.
Alabama 4428 4453 4503 4526 4548 4562 4614 4634.
Mississippi 4363 4399.
Louisiana 4226 4227 4231.
21.
Agalinis gattingeri Small Small.
Gerardia tenuifolia leptophylla Benth. Comp.
Bot.
Mag.
1 174.
1836.
Jacksonville Louisiana.
Drummond.
Type doubtless from Louisiana seen in Kew Herbarium.
Gerardia tenuifolia filiformis Benth. in DC.
Prod.
10 518.
1846.
Southern States.
Type labeled Amer.
bor.
Rafinesque.
Gerardia filiformis Raf. seen in Kew Herbarium.
Gerardia gattingeri Small Fl.
S. E. Un.
St. 1078 1338.
1903.
Type Curtiss N. A. PI.
no.
1910 in Herb.
C.
U.
Type collected by A. Gattinger on hills around Nashville Tennessee seen in Herb.
Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden.
Agalinis gattingeri Small Small in Britton  Brown 111.
Fl.
N. Un.
St. andCan.ed.
II.
3213.
1913.
Dry to moist sandy or clayey soil woodland barrens or open bluffs in central Tennessee and northern Alabama.
Ranges from southwestern Ontario to Minnesota south to Alabama and eastern Texas.
Flowering from late August to mid October and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla pink with two yellow lines and several to many rather large purple red spots within throat anteriorly.
Pennell Tennessee  5705.
22.
Agalinis tenuifolia Yahl Raf.
Gerardia tenuifolia Vahl Symb.
Bot.
3 7.
1794.
Habitat in America septentrionali.
Type in Herb.
Universitetets Botaniske Museum Copenhagen Denmark collected by Von Rohren and said to be probably from Philadelphia is identified by Dr. C. H. Ostenfeld as agreeing with my number 2681 from Pennsylvania.
Agalinis tenuifolia Vahl Raf. New Fl.
Amer.
2 64.
1837.
Loam or sandy soil moist or dry usually in open deciduous woodland common throughout above the Fallline through the eastern Appalachians southward smallerleaved passing into var.
folyphylla westward mainly near riverbanks passing into var.
macrophylla descending into the Coastal Plain locally in heavier soils as limestone and in riverbottoms there passing into var.
leucanthera.
Ranges from Maine to Michigan south to Georgia and Louisiana.
Flowering from August to October and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla purplish pink with two yellow lines and small diffused purplered spots within throat anteriorly.
Pennell Georgia 4091.
22a.
Agalinis tenuifolia leucanthera Raf.
Pennell comb.
nov. Gerardia leucanthera Raf. Fl.
Ludov.
50.
1817.
Louisiana.
C.C.Robin.
Type not .seen.
Stem 410 dm.
tall wideh much branched.
Pedicels .51.5 times the length of the bracts.
Corolla 1523 mm.
long.
Capsule 67 mm.
long.
Seeds apparently slightly longer and more evidently reticulate.
Usually in moist soil loam or clay more rarely in sand woodland or meadow especially near streams in alluvial or limestone soils in the Coastal Plain from southern Georgia and northern Florida to eastern Texas.
Pennell Georgia 4759.
Florida 4601 4670 4699 4721.
Alabama 4522 4597 4606 4619.
22b.
Agalinis tenuifolia macrophylla Benth.
Blake.
Gerardia tenuifolia macrophylla Benth. Comp.
Bot.
Mag.
1 174.
1836.
St. Louis Jacksonville.
Drummond.
Fragment of type from Kew Herbarium labeled St. Louis .seen.
Gerardia besseyana Britton Mem.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 5 295.
1894.
Newname for Gerardia tenuifolia macrophylla Benth. not Gerardia macrophylla Nutt.
Benth.
Agalinis tenuifolia macrophylla Benth.
Blake Rhodora 20 71.
1918.
In situations similar to that of the species but more frequent along riverbanks from northern Alabama and Mississippi northward.
Ranges from southern Ontario and Minnesota south to Alabama and Oklahoma.
Pennell Alabama  5719.
Mississippi  5685.
Tennessee  5714.
22c.
Agalinis tenuifolia polyphylla Small Pemiell comb.
nov. Gerardia polyphylla Small Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 25 618.
1898.
The original specimens were collected by the writer on Little Stone Mountain De Kalb County Georgia in September 1895.
Tj'pe seen in Herb.
New York Botanical Garden.
Dry light soil over granite locally in the granite region of central Georgia.
Pennell Georgia 4065 5696 5699.
23.
Agalinis divaricata Chapm.
Pennell.
Gerardia divaricata Chapm. Fl.
S. Un.
St. 299.
Mar. 1860.
Low sandy pine barrens West Florida.
No type indicated but numerous specimens collected and distributed by the describer seen.
Gerardia mettaueri Wood ClassBook 5.30.
Dec 1860.
Wet sandy places.
Middle Fla. Dr.
Mettauer.
Type seen in herbarium of Columbia University at the New York Botanical Garden.
Gerardia metlaueri clausa Wood 1. c. 530.
1860.
With the others that is with the species and G. mettaueri nuda.
No specimen so labeled seen.
Agalinis divaricata Chapm.
Pennell Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 40 437.
1913.
Dry sandy longleaf pineland western Florida and southeastern Alabama mostly abundant.
Flowering in September and October and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla rosepink with no yellow lines but with faint purplered spots within throat anteriorly.
Pennell Florida572 4593 4644 4657 4668 4679 4684 4687 4716.
Alabama 4622 4624 4627 4633.
24.
Agalinis filicaulis Benth.
Pennell.
Gcrardia aphylla filicaulis Benth. Comp.
Bot.
Mag.
1 174.
1836.
Jacksonville.
Drummond.
Type in Kew Herbarinm verified by Dr. N. E. Brown as agreeing with my number 4660 from Florida.
Geranlia vietlaueri nuda Wood ClassBook 530.
1860.
Middle Fl.
Dr. Mettauer 1855.
No type seen.
Agalinis filicaulis Benth.
Pennell Bull.
Torr.
Bot.
Club 40 438.
1913.
Moist grassy sandy longleaf pineland in the Coastal Plain from southern Georgia and northern Florida to eastern Louisiana.
Flowering from mid September to early November and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla lavender pink without yellow lines or purplered spots within throat anteriorly.
Pennell Georgia 4749 4788.
Florida 4594 4643 4660 4677 4689 4709 4796.
Alabama 4608 4626.
33.
OTOPHYLLA Bentham.
Otophijlla Benth. in DC.
Prod.
10 512.
1846.
Type species Gerardia auriculata Michx.
1.
Otophylla auriculata Michx.
Small.
Gerardia auriculata Michx. Fl.
Bor.
Amer.
2 20.
1803.
In pratis regionis Illinoensis A.
Michaux.
Description sufficiently distinctive.
Otophylla michauxii Benth. in DC.
Prod.
10 512.
1846.
Otophylla auriculata Michx.
Small Fl.
S. E. Un.
St. 1075 1338.
1903.
Moist to dry prairies old fields and waysides known only from Jackson Madison Co. western Tennessee where probably introduced.
Native of the prairies of the central Mississippi Valley from Michigan to Minnesota and Arkansas.
Flowering from late August to midSeptember fruiting in September and October.
34.
BUCHNERA Linne.
Buchnera L. Sp.
PI.
630.
1753.
Type species B. americana L. Leaves 39 cm.
long lanceolate to ovatelanceolate relatively coarsely dentate.
Corollalobes 69 mm.
long the tube 22J times the length of the calyx.
Capsule 89 mm.
long oblong.
Stem hirsutepubescent.
1.
B. americana.
Leaves 27 cm.
long lanceolateelliptic to linear entire or the lower slightly dentate.
Corollatube mostly 1 times the length 20 of the calyx.
Capsule ovate 56.5 mm.
long.
Seeds.
Stem less pubescent or even glabrate.
Leaves prevailingly lanceolateelliptic mostly obtuse only the uppermost at times linear and then reduced.
Corollalobes usually 46 mm.
long.
2a.
B. elongata obtusa.
Leaves linear or nearly so mostly acute to acuminate only the lowermost if any lanceolateelliptic.
Corollalobes usually 68 mm long.
2.
B. elongata.
1.
Buchnera americana L. Buchnera americana L. 1. c. 630.
1753.
Habitat in Virginia Canada.
Based upon Gron. Fl.
Virg.
74.
1743 typified by Clayton 142 from Virginia.
Description sufficiently distinctive.
Sandy or sterile loam soil throughout the area except in the Appalachians probably more frequent in the Coastal Plain where it may intergrade with B. elongata obtusa.
Flowering from June to September and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla purplishblue throughout.
Pennell Alabama 4478 4518 4550 4554.
2.
Buchnera elongata Sw. Buchnera elongata Sw. Prod.
Veg.
Ind.
Occ.
92.
1788.
India occidentalis Jamaica Fl.
Ind.
Occ.
1061.
1800 Habitat in arenosis depressis Indiae occidentalis.
Versus jugum montium paroeciae Clarendon Jamaicae.
Sandy soil dunes and limestone pineland of southern Florida passing into var.
obtusa.
Ranges through the West Indies and in northern South America.
Pennell Florida 9541 9543 9546 9547 9552.
2a.
Buchnera elongata obtusa Pennell var.
nov. Buchnera angvstifolia Raf. New Fl.
Amer.
2 32.
1837.
In Alabama.
Described as with linear leaves but these remote.
Surely an attenuate state of our variety.

Buchnera levicaulis Raf. 1. c. 39.
1837.
Florida.
Description of stem as angular and quite smooth suggests that this may belong to some other genus.
However while our plant is characteristically pubescent it occasionally occurs nearly glabrous.
Leaves prevailingly lanceolateelliptic mostly obtuse only the uppermost linear and then not elongate.
Corolla usually smaller than in the species its lobes usually 46 mm.
long.
Intergrades with the species in southern Florida and the Bahamas Type open sandy pineland 12 miles north of Abita Springs St. Tammany Parish Louisiana collected in flower and fruit August 14 1912 F. W. Pennell 4190 in herbarium New York Botanical Garden isotype in herbarium University of Pennsylvania.
Sandy pineland in the Coastal Plain from North Carolina to southern Florida westward to southeastern Texas.
Flowering from March to October and soon ripening fruit southward throughout the year.
Corolla purplishblue throughout occurring also frequently in an albino form.
Pennell North Carolina 4911.
South Carohna 4874 4882.
Georgia730 4787 4812.
Florida 4704 4722 9535 9645 9674.
Alabama 4473.
Louisiana 4190 4296.
35.
SCHWALBEA Linne.
Schwalbea L. Sp.
PI.
606.
1753.
Type species S. americana L. of Virginia.
1.
Schwalbea australis Pennell sp.
nov.
Stem 48 dm.
tall finely pubescent with short ascending or upcurved hairs.
Leaves ellipticoval 3 cm.
long 1218 mm.
wide acutish obscurely reticulate minutely strigose.
Pedicels becoming 45 mm.
long in fruit.
Calyx 10ridged its lobes all acute the posterior linear 710 mm.
long posterolateral lobes 1920 mm.
long their free portion 67 mm.
long the anterior lobes 2022 mm.
long united to within 12 mm.
of their apices.
Corolla about 30 mm.
long slender the lips 1011 mm.
long the posterior narrowly arched strongly pubescent externally the anterior densely lanose within over the bases of the three short lobes.
Capsule at least 10 mm.
long not seen mature.
Type damp pine barrens near Seville Volusia Co. Florida collected in flower May 10 1900 A. H. Curtiss 6742 in herbarium of the New York Botanical Garden.
Distinguished from the northern S. americana by the following characters  Pubescence of stem pedicels and calyx consisting of recurved hairs.
Leaves ellipticlanceolate rarely over 10 mm.
wide usually evidently veined.
Anterior calyxlobes obtuse.
S. americana.
Pubescence of stem pedicels and calyx consisting of upcurved usually shorter hairs.
Leaves ellipticoval usually about 15 mm.
wide usually more obscurely veined.
Anterior calyxlobes acute or acutish.
S. australis.
Sandy soil rather moist oakland and pineland in the Coastal Plain from South Carolina to central Florida and Louisiana inland apparently occasional seen only from ''sandy humid places in the Cumberland Mountains between Montgomery and Jamestown Tennessee collected by Rugel in 1841.
Flowering from April to June.
Not seen growing.
36.
CASTILLEJA Mutis.
Castilleja Mutis L. f. Suppl.
293.
1781.
Type species C. fissifolia L. f. of Colombia.
1.
Castilleja coccinea L. Spreng.
Bartsia coccinea L. Sp.
PI.
602.
1753.
Habitat in Virginia Noveboraco .
.
.
Hort.
Cliff.
235.
From L. Hort.
Cliff.
325.
1737 Crescit in Virginia unde delatam communicavit DD.
Gronovius.
From Gron. Fl.
Virg.
69.
1743 Clayton n.
293.
Certainly the plant here considered.
Castilleja coccinea L. Spreng. Syst.
Veg.
2 775.
1825.
Meadows or moist grassy slopes loam or sandy loam in the upland from North Carolina to Alabama.
Ranges from Maine to Manitoba south to Georgia and Kansas.
Flowering from April to early June and soon ripening fruit.
Corolla yellowishgreen throughout.
37.
PEDICULARIS Linne.
Pedicularis L. Sp.
PI.
607.
1753.
Type species P. palustris L. of Europe.
Stem 68 dm.
tall glabrous.
Leaves shallowly lobed the sinuses narrow the lobes with minute regular crenations.
Bracts auriculate near base.
Rachis of inflorescence glabrous.
Fused sepals of each side terminating in a slightly enlarged crenate foliar tip glabrous or with a very few long hairs near base.
Corolla with truncate apex of posterior lobes without toothlike processes.
Capsule brown scarcely exceeding the calyx slenderly beaked.
Flowering in late summer 1.
P. lanceolata.
Stem 13 dm.
tall hirsute especially above.
Leaves deeply lobed the sinuses broad the lobes with more prominent irregular crenations.
Bracts entire near base.
Rachis of inflorescence lanate.
Fused sepals of each side broadly acute entire pubescent along the veins.
Corolla with apex of posterior lobes each with a tooth like process.
Capsule strawcolored twice as long as the calyx scarcely beaked.
Flowering in spring.
2.
P. canadensis.
1.
Pedicularis lanceolata Michx.
Pedicularis lanceolata Michx. Fl.
Bor.
Amer.
2 18.
1803.
Hab.
in regione Illinoensi A. Michaux.
Type not verified but description distinctive.
Swales and wet meadows mountains of North Carolina.
Ranges from Massachusetts to Manitoba south to North Carolina and Nebraska.
Flowering from late July to September.
Corolla yellow throughout. 
Seen only south to Berkeley Co. lower South Carolina but this very easily distinguished plant is recorded from upper Georgia by Elliott Sketch Bot.
S. C. and Ga. 2 132.
1822 and from Etowah Co. Alabama by Mohr Contrib.
Nat.
Herb.
6 728.
1901.
2.
Fedicularis canadensis L. Pedicidaris canadensis L. Mant.
86.
1767.
Habitat in America septentrionali.
Kalni.
Woodland or knolls in meadows throughout above the Fallline probably more common northward in the Coastal Plain descending locally to northern Florida.
Ranges from Nova Scotia to Manitoba south to Florida and Texas.
Pennell Alabama 9722.
Tennessee 9789.
38.
MELAMPYRUM Linne.
Melampyrum L. Sp.
PI.
605.
1753.
Type species M. cristatum L..of Europe.
Main stemleaves linear or lanceolatelinear.
Bracts conspicuously fimbriate near base with teeth frequently as long as the width of the blade.
Capsules mostly 67 mm.
long curved and usually attenuatebeaked.
Seeds 22.5 mm long brown to blackish 1.
M. lineare.
Main stemleaves linearlanceolate to nearly ovate.
Bracts slightly or not fimbriate near base the teeth shorter than the width of the blades.
Capsules frequently larger reaching 89 mm.
long slightly or not curved and less or not attenuatebeaked.
Seeds often larger reaching 3 mm.
long usually black.
la.
M. lineare lati folium.
1.
Melampyrum lineare Desr.
Melampyrum lineare Desr. Lam. Encyc.
4 22.
1796.
Rapportee de la Caroline par M. Fraser ... v.
s..
Description made from a very young plant but certainly of the form here considered.
Characterization of the calyx as 5toothed certainly erroneous.
Open woodland thin acid soil upland and probably midland districts of North Carolina.
In the Appalachians mainly replaced by var.
lalifolium.
Ranges northward to Long Island and through its varieties much further northward and across the continent.
Flowering and fruiting through the summer.
Corolla white more or less pinkish externally the palate yellow.
la.
Melampyrum lineare latifolium Miihl.
Beauverd.
Melampyrum americanum Michx. Fl.
Bor.
Amer.
2 16.
1803.
Hab.
a sinu Hudsonis ad montosam Carolinam.
A.
Michaux.
Description evidently of the prevalent inland broaderleaved plant.
Melampyrum latifolium Muhl.
Cat.
57. nomen nudum Eaton Bot.
316.
1818.
From Muhlenberg's Catalog the type station is in Delaware.
Type not seen but evidently is the prevalent inland plant.
Melampyrum lineare latifolium Muhl.
Beauverd Mem.
Soc.
Phys.
Geneve 38 474.
1916.
Moist open woodland in the Appalachians south to northern Georgia.
The prevalent inland plant southward attaining its greatest distinctness from the species.
