MOLLUSKS FROM LAKE CHAPALA STATE OP JALISCO AND VICINITY.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
Professor Francisco Contreras in the course of his stadies of the natural resources of Mexico has made a small collection of the shells of Lake Chapala.
The occurrence of pecuUar species of Planorbis Physa and Anodoniites probably indicates that there is a considerable endemic element in the mollusk fauna of this Mexican lake.
In treating of the Planorbes and Physas of Lake Patzcuaro' the writer called attention to the more enlarged last whorl of the shell compared with the most closely related species found in other Mexican localities.
It was conjectured that larger lung capacity might be advantageous to airbreathing snails of this deep lake.
The same peculiarity is seen in Planorbis contrerasi and Physa solidissima of Lake Chapala but while the shells of Lake Patzcuaro are thin and light those of Chapala are remarkably solid perhaps an adaptation to wavebeaten shores.
Polygyra ventrosula Pfr..
Chapala.
Diameter about 10 mm.
Also similar smaller shells diam.
7.3 mm. which are referable to the variety hmdsvi Pfr..
Whether these sizes occur in the same colony or are connected by intermediate sizes should be noted.
Polygyra matermontana jaliscoensis Pils.
Chapala.
This form was described from Guadalajara.
Drymaeus hegewischi Pfr..
Chapala.
Planorbis tenuis chapalensis new subspecies.
Fig.
1.
The shell is very strong and solid with narrow deeply sunken spire on the left side.
The aperture is piriform the penult whorl intruding but little.
Greatest diam.
16 alt.
at aperture 9.3 mm.
 These Proceedings for 1891 p. 324.
1920.
193 Laguna de Chapala State of Jalisco collected by Prof. Francisco Contreras March 1 1920.
Type No.
46194.
Fig.
1.
 Planorhis tenuis chapalensis
Enlarged.
Planorbis contrerasi new species Fig.
2 The shell is solid last whorl compressed on the right side bluntly angular with funnelor vortexshaped umbilicus left side angular with rather wide bowlshaped concavity.
Surface closely striate spirally within both concavities seemingly with weak traces of spiral lines over the peripheral part though the specimens are all so waveworn that the external sculpture cannot be seen except within the aperture.
The aperture is narrow angular at the ends.
Greatest diameter 14.3 alt.
at aperture 10.2 mm.
 fully 4 whorls.
 c .
Fig.
2.
 Planorhis contrerasi
Enlarged.
Laguna de Chapala State of Jalisco collected by Prof. Francisco Contreras March 1 1920.
Type No.
46193.
While the shape is somewhat like that of Planorhis tejiuis exaggeratus of Lake Patzcuaro this species differs by its solidity and especially by the strongly developed spiral sculpture.
It is a very distinct species.
Physa solidissima Pils.
Laguna de Chapala.
Dead specimens of this remarkably globose heavy species are somewhat larger than the type the largest measuring length 11.3 diam.
9.5 length of aperture 9.9 mm.
The rounded fold of the massive columella is prominent as in the type.
It is hoped that living individuals can be secured.
They may show differences from the ordinary Physas.
Anodontites jaliscoensis n. sp.
Fig.
.3.
The shell is oblong the alt.
55 per cent of the length the diameter slightly less than onethird the length moderately solid  Isabella 194 color paler buff toward the beaks a little browner toward the lower margin the epidermis thin with weak growth lines under the lens showing radial bands of festooned striae in the middle part.
Beaks small somewhat worn showing no sculpture.
The interior is pale Payne's gray with a rather wide matt border stained with olivebuff in the cavity toward the beaks.
There is a dark iridescent triangle at the posterior end of the hinge.
Length 46 alt.
25.5 diam.
14 mm.
ToUman State of Jalisco.
Prof. F. Contreras.
Type No.
46197.
This is a longer shell than Anodonta coardata Anton differing also in external texture the wide dull border inside and the deep triangular sinulus at the end of the hinge.
Fig.
3.
 Anodontites jaliscoevsis
Natural size.
Nephronaias aztecorum tolimanensis new subspecies.
Fig.
4.
Differs from N. aztecorum and N. a. chayalensis by the smaller size and lower form the shell not so wide posteriorly.
Length 43 alt.
24.3 mm.
Length 35 alt.
19.3 diam.
11.4 mm.
Tollman State of Jalisco.
Type No.
46195.
A specimen from Rio Grande Zapotitlan Jalisco measures length 54 alt.
28 mm.
Fig.
4.
 Nephronaias aztecorum tolimanensis.
Natural size.
