DESCRIPTION OF A NEW GENUS AND SPECIES OF MICROTINE RODENT FROM SIBERIA.
BY GERRIT S. MILLER JR. Before the first ocean telegraph cable was laid the Western Union Telegraph Company organized an expedition to investigate the practicability of an overland international line by way of Alaska and Siberia.
A few mammals were collected during this exploration and among them is a mouse representing an uudescribed genus and species.
It was taken at Plover Bay Bering Strait Siberia.
In general appearance this animal resembles a lemming.
So close is the likeness that the specimen remained for many years in the National Museum collection labelled ' Myodes
Recently however Mr. F. W. True detected the error in identification and referred the subject to me for further study.
I find that the species while possessing no important characters not found in Microtus and Evotomysyet combines the peculiarities of these Fig.
1.
Skull of Aschizomys lemminus x 2.
twQ genera gQ perfectIy that it is necessary either to recognize the new form as an annectant genus or to reduce Evotomysto the rank of a subgenus of Microtus and treat the Plover Bay animal as still another subgenus.
While the latter course would be the more logical it would involve the serious inconvenience of uniting two large widely spread and elsewhere sharply defined genera.
Hence I prefer the first alternative.
1898.
3G9 Aschizomys gen. nov. Microtince.
Type Aschizomys lemminus sp.
nov. Generic characters.
 Skull fig.
1 broad depressed lightly built smooth and rounded.
Palate as in true Evotomys
1 Molars small and weak their angles rounded as in Evotomysfig.
2 but the teeth growing from a persistent pulp as in Microtus fig.
3.
Lower incisor with long root nearly as in Microtus which strongly displaces root of large posterior lower molar fig.
4.
Form lemminglike.
Tail vertebra
shorter than hind foot  pencil nearly as long as vertebrae.
Plantar tubercles six.
Number of mammae unknown.
Remarks.
 As already intimated the proper disposition of this genus is open to serious question.
It must be recognized as an intermediate between Evotomysand Microtus but opinions may well vary between the logical course of combining all three under one generic name and the convenient expedient of allowing each to stand as a full genus.
For the present I have chosen the  latter course.
A third alternative would be tern of Aschizomys lemto remove from Microtus and unite w 7 ith mmus xlO.
Aschizomys the subgenera Eothenomys 2 and Anteliomys 2 in which the palate structure of Evotomysis exactly reproduced.
With these might be joined the highly aberrant Evotomysrufocanus.
3 This would not only remove anomalous forms from Microtus and Evotomysbut would also create a fairly homogeneous group characterized by the combination of shelflike palate with longrooted lower incisor and encapsulated posterior lower molar.
When good material representing all these questionable forms can be brought together some such course as this may prove necessary.
Aschizomys lemminus sp.
nov.
Type.
 Adult number  United States National Museum collected at Kelsey Station Plover Bay Bering Strait by C. W. Baxter.
See North American Fauna No.
12 fig.
7 and pi.
II fig.
10 July 23 1896.
'See North American Fauna No.
12 pp.
4549 pi.
II figs.
8 and 11.
3 For characters of Evotomysrufocanus see antea p. 359361 .
370 1898.
Fig.
3.
Side view of molars upper figure Evotomyslower fig ure Aschizomys x 2f.
External form.
i  Ears broad and rounded longer than the fur immediately in front of their bases.
In the dry skin the ears have shrunk considerably and appear much shorter than the surrounding fur.
Muzzle hairy  septum of the nostrils naked the free edges crenulate and grooved transversely.
Fore feet large with five prominent tubercles.
Palms naked claws short and stout thumb rudimentary with a convex compressed nail.
Hind foot broad  soles with six tubercles of which five are subequal and one much smaller.
Hinder part of sole densely hairy as far forward as the posterior tubercle anteriorly granular with a considerable number of short white hairs interspersed among the' granules.
Claws moderate overhung with white hairs.
Tail clubshaped.
Whiskers long reaching to the shoulder.
Fur and color.
 The fur is everywhere dense soft and silky that on the back about 10 mm.
in length  on the belly it is nearly as long.
Throughout the pelage the hairs are slategray at base.
On the back the slaty portion occupies about the basal twothirds of the hairs.
Beyond this is a narrow subterminal band of pale yellowish woodbrown.
The extreme tips of the hairs are sepia.
The resulting surface color is a fine grizzle of sepia and yellowishbrown very uniform throughout the dorsal surface.
There is no indication of a darker dorsal area but the shading is slightly heavier across the lumbar region than elsewhere.
In front of each ear is an indistinct tuft of whitish hairs.
Sides belly all four feet and legs and under side of tail light strawyellow sharply defined from color of dorsal surface.
This description can be only approximately correct since it is taken from the skin which had been immersed in alcohol for many years.
Tail.
 Before skinning the tail was clubshaped and in its present condition it retains a trace of this form.
For a short distance 4 From notes made by Mr. F. W. True before the specimen was removed from alcohol.
1898.
371 at base it is covered with short loose hairs similar in texture to those of the body.
Near the middle of the tail the hairs become abruptly much elongated stiffened and strongly directed backward.
The pencil thus formed is nearly as long as the tail vertebrae.
It is distinctly flattened from above.
The general appearance of the tail is much like that of Dicrostonyx but it is even more bushy than in average specimens of any lemming.
Skull.
 In general form the skull fig.
1 is much like that of Evotomysalascensis though it is considerably larger.
The rostrum is more tapering than in E. alascensis and the rostral protuberances 5 although apparently uninjured are much less conspicuous.
The incisive foramen is considerably shorter than in Evotomysalascensis or E. Fig.
4.
Inner wosnessenskii  audital bulhe of about the same side of left man  .
.
 c i n i . i  dible viewed ac t ua l size as in the former therefore relatively mslightly from betermediate between the two.
Mandible rather nn  upper gmore heavily built than in Evotomysalascensis.
lower figure AsTeeth.
 Upper incisors relatively smaller than chizomys.
x 3f. '
m Evotomysalascensis  molars relatively slightly larger.
Enamel pattern fig.
2 apparently not essentially different from that of the Arctic redbacked mice.
6 The posterior upper molar is however remarkably long.
It has four distinct salient angles on each side.
Measurements.
 Total length 99 mm.
 head and body 85  tail vertebras 16 pencil 14 hind foot 17.5 ear from meatus 11.5 ear in dry skin 8.3.
Skull  greatest length 25.4 mm.
 basal length 23.8  basilar length 22 zygomatic breadth 14.8 interorbital breadth 4 mastoid breadth 12.6 occipital depth 7 frontopalatal depth at middle of molar series 7 length of nasals 3 incisive foramen 4.6 maxillary tooth row alveoli 6 mandible 15 mandibular tooth row alveoli 6.
I am permitted by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution to published this paper here.
5 Seeantea p. 364.
6 See antea p. 365 fig.
2 ac.
