




v ? § V; / v Z^^Vr 



*^ : £.* 





§ ,V> 



^ 



i i v & -v 



m 





.v.* x 



?SB*£ 



*Wfift ¥* 



*?fes 





$*J» 



■*&& 



mm &s 



: »FaSn 





$" '^;fe' 





t^mm* m&rwFr' 



i, '$*&gjfi\ 






J-~>, \^>;*V 





***£ 



*^|| 



^Pff l- «J >■■ \ 



* ■ w. 



m i < 





9 ip 



|5 ST." , rife 



.^- jw - 





/**«" 






b 



T 








PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1898. 



COMMITTEE ON PUBLICATION: 

 Thomas Meehan, Charles E. Smith, 



Edward J. Nolan, M. D., Henry Skinner, M. D., 



Henry A. Pilsbry. 



Editor : EDWARD. J. NOLAN, M. D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



LOGAN SQUARE. 



1899. 




Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 



January 31, 1899. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of the Proceedings for 1898 have been 

 presented to the meetings of the Academy and mailed as follows : — 



DOCKER-FOSTER CO., PRINTERS, PHILA. 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 



With reference to the several articles contributed by each. 



For Verbal Communications, Announcements, etc, see General Index. 



Barber, C. M. and T. D. A. Cockerell. A new Weasel 



from New Mexico 188 



Boyer, Charles S. New Species of Diatoms (Plate XXIV) 470 



Calvert, Philip P. Odonata (Dragonflies) from the Indian 

 Ocean, and from Kashmir, collected by Dr. W. L, 

 Abbott 141 



Cockerell, T. D. A. New and little4vUown Bees from Wash- 

 ington State .....*.. 50 



Conklin, Edwin G., Ph. D. Environmental and Sexual 

 Dimorphism in Crepidula (Plate XXI, XXII, 

 XXIII) 435 



Cope, Francis R. The Summer Birds of Susequehanna 



County, Pennsylvania ...... 76 



Coues, Dr. Elliott. Notes on Mr. Thomas Meehan's Paper 

 on the Plants of Lewis and Clark's Expedition across 

 the Continent, 1804-06 ...... 291 



Dall, William H. Synopsis of the Recent and Tertiary 



Psammobiidae of North America . . . .57 

 On the Genus Halia of Risso 190 



Fox, William J. Contributions to a Knowledge of the 

 Hymenoptera of Brazil, No. 4 — Thynninae and addi- 

 tions .......... 72 



Contributions to a Knowledge of the Hymenoptera of 

 Brazil, No. 5. — Vespida? ...... 445 



Hamilton, S. Harbert. The Occurrence of Marcasite in 



the Raritan Formation ...... 485 



Harshberger, John W., M. D. Botanical Observations on 

 the Mexican Flora, especially on the Flora of the Valley 

 of Mexico 372 



Hough, Garry de N., M. D. The Muscidse collected by 



Dr. A. Donaldson Smith in Somaliland . . . 165 



Goldsmith, Edward. Volcanic Rocks of Mesozoic Age in 



Pennsylvania (Plates II, III, IV, V) ... 90 



The Petrifaction of Fossil Bones ..... 98 



Von Ihering, H. Contributions to the Herpetology of Sao 



Paulo, Brazil.— I 101 



Johnson, Chas. W. Diptera collected by Dr. A. Donaldson 



Smith in Somaliland, Eastern Africa . . . .157 

 New Cretaceous Fossils from an Artesian Well-boring at 

 Mount Laurel, N. J 461 



,/ V v ^o 




Jordan, David Starr and James Alexander Gunn, Jr. 

 List of Fishes collected at the Canary Islands by Mr. 

 0. F. Cook, with descriptions of four new Species . 339 

 Keller, Ida A. The Growth of Viburnum lantanoides 



Michx. (Plate XXV) . . . . . .482 



Letson, E. J. Description of a new Tethys (Aplysia) (Plate 



VIII) .193 



Meehan, Thomas. The Plants of Lewis and Clark's Expedi- 

 tion across the Continent, 1804-1806 .... 12 

 Merriam, C. Hart. Descriptions of three new Rodents from 



the Olympic Mountains, Washington . . . 352 



Miller, Gerrit S., Jr. List of Bats collected by Dr. W. L. 



Abbott in Siam . 316 



Descriptions of five new Phyllostome Bats . . . 326 

 A new Chipmunk from Northeastern China . . . 348 

 Notes on the Arctic Red-backed Mice .... 358 

 Description of a new Genus and Species of Microtine 



Rodent from Siberia 368 



Moore, J. Percy. Hyalodendron navalium, a new Genus 



and Species of Euplectellid Sponge (Plates XIX, XX) 430 

 Palmer, T. Chalkley. Observations on Errant Frustules 



of Eunotia major (Plates VI, VII) . . . .110 

 Pilsbry, H. A. Chitons collected by Dr. Harold Heath at 



Pacific Grove, near Monterey, California . . . 287 



A new Land Shell from Clarion Island . . . 354 



New Species of Odontostomus from Brazil aud Argentina. 471 



Margarita Sharpii, a new Alaskan Gastropod . . 486 



Pilsbry, H. A. and E. G. Vanatta. Anatomical Notes on 



certain West American Helices (Plate I) . . .67 

 Revision of the North American Slugs: Binneya, Hern- 

 phillia, Hesperarion, Prophysaon and Anadenulus. 

 (Plate IX, X, XI XII, XIII, XIV, XV, XVI). . 219 

 Materials toward a Natural Classification of the Cylin- 

 drelloid Snails (Plates XVII, XVIII) . . . 2<i4 



Some Cuban Species of Cerion 475 



Rhoads, Samuel N. A small Collection of Mammals from 



North Eastern China 120 



A new Grasshopper Mouse from New Mexico . .194 



Notes on the Fossil Walrus of Eastern North America . 196 

 Seale, Alvin. Notes on Alaskan Water Birds . . .126 

 Shufeldt, R. W., M. D. Observations on the Classification 



of Birds 489 



Van Denburgh, John. The Gherrhonotus of the San Lucan 

 Fauna, Lower California, with Diagnosis of other West 



American Species "3 



Birds observed in Central California in the Summer of 



1893 206 



Woolman, Lewis and Charles S. Boyer. Fossil Mollusks 

 and Diatoms from the Dismal Swamp, Virginia and 

 North Carolina; Indication of the Geological Age of 

 the Deposit. With Notes on the Diatoms . . .414 




PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1898. 



January 4. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Twenty-five persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



" Contributions to a Knowledge of the Hymenoptera of Brazil, 

 No. 4, Thynninae and additions," by William J. Fox. 



" The Summer Birds of Susquehanna Co., Penna.," by Francis B. 

 Cope, Jr. 



The Council reported that the following Standing Committees 

 had been appointed to serve during the ensuing year: — 



On Library. — Charles P. Perot, Arthur Erwin Brown, Thomas 

 A. Bobinson, Henry C. Chapman, M. D., Dr. C. Newlin Peirce. 



On Publications. — Thomas Median, Charles £. Smith, Henry 

 A. Pilsbry, Henry Skinner, M. D., Edward J. Nolan, M. D, 

 2 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



On Instruction and Lectures. — Uselma C. Smith, Benjamin 

 Smith Lyman, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., Philip P Calvert and 

 Samuel N. Rhoads. 



Standing Committee of Council on By-Laws. — Isaac J. 

 Wistar, Theodore D. Rand, Arthur Erwin Brown, Benjamin 

 Sharp, M. D. 



The Birdsboro Trap Quarries. — Mr. Theodore D. Rand re- 

 marked that the increasing demand for good roads has caused search 

 to he made for the best material conveniently available. Not long 

 ago Mr. John T. Dyer who has long wrought the extensive lime- 

 stone quarries near Howellville, Chester Co., undertook the quarry- 

 ing of trap rock on Hay Creek, a little over a mile southwest of 

 Birdsboro, near Reading, Pa. The trap, probably a diabase, has 

 come up through the Red Rocks, forming high hills on both sides of 

 the creek, the valley of which has enabled the Wilmington and 

 Northern R. R. to descend into the Schuylkill Valley. The re- 

 markable feature of this trap is the evidence of intense dynamic ac- 

 tion more recent than the rock itself. There are three quarries, 

 two on the right and one on the left bank of the creek. 



The lower quarries show breasts of about a hundred feet in height, 

 increasing as the quarrying proceeds further into the steep and high 

 hills. Everywhere, except some portions of the upper quarry, the 

 rock is very full of joints, the major striking N. 65° E., the others 

 seemingly in almost every direction, as if the rock had been crushed 

 by a very sudden pressure. The joints show, usually, slickensides 

 on their surfaces, but there is strong cohesion through the joints, 

 but much less than through the rock itself. These joints, of course, 

 greatly facilitate the quarrying and crushing, though sometimes in- 

 terfering with the drilling. At the upper quarry some rock was 

 seen much resembling that of French Creek, and capable, like it, of 

 being quarried in large and regular masses. In this quarry, also, 

 were found some specimens of heulandite and probably laumontite, 

 giving promise of fine specimens. 



The present output of the quarries is eleven hundred tons of crushed 

 stone per day. The consumption of this large amount shows the 

 remarkable increase in the use of this material. 



A striking feature was the cleanliness of these quarries. The 

 blasting is done usually twice a day, but after each blast some of 

 the quarrymen are detailed to fork up the fragments, so that the 

 horses and carts travel over a smooth and level surface. The horses 

 were of a quality rarely seen in quarry work, and evidently were 

 well cared for aud well treated, while the men worked industriously, 

 without the vigorous language too often heard in quarrying opera- 

 tions. 




1898.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 11 



January 11. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Twenty-seven persons present. 

 Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



"Proceedings of a Meeting held in Commemoration of Doctor 

 Harrison Allen and Doctor George Henry Horn." 1 



" Fossil Mollusks and Diatoms beneath the Dismal Swamp, 

 Virginia and North Carolina," by Louis Woolman, with Notes on 

 the Diatoms, by Charles S. Boyer. 



January 18. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 One hundred and thirty-five persons present. 



The deaths of Crawford Arnold and John K. Valentine, mem- 

 bers, were announced. 



Dr. Persifor Frazer made a communication, illustrated with 

 lantern slides,- on "Glimpses of Russia in Europe, Asia, and Asia 

 Minor." (No abstract. See Proceedings, 1897, p. 405.) 



January 25. 

 Charles Schaeffer, M. D., in the Chair. 



Fourteen persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



"On a small Collection of Mammals from Northeastern China," 

 by Samuel N. Rhoads. 



" Notes on Alaskan Water Birds," by Alvin Seale. 



Israel W. Morris, Charles G. Sower, D. M. Castle and Caroline 

 A. Burgin were elected members. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 



1 Ordered to be printed in the Proceedings for 1897. See page 505 et seq. 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



THE PLANTS OF LEWIS AND CLARK'S EXPEDITION ACROSS THE CON- 

 TINENT, 1804-1806. 



BY THOMAS MEEHAN. 



The expedition of Captains Merewether Lewis and William 

 Clark, from what was then the village of St. Louis, to the sources 

 of the Mississippi and across to the Pacific Coast, was one of the 

 marvels in the early history of the American Republic. The inte- 

 rior of the continent was utterly unknown. That it was surely in- 

 habited by wild races of men, and that wild beasts roamed through 

 its trackless forests, comprised almost all that could be told about 

 it. A little band of some half hundred men was detailed to explore 

 these dark corners of our recently acquired territory in face of the 

 fact that they would be lost to home and civilization for several 

 years. Captain Lewis started from Washington to take charge of 

 the party on the 5th of July, 1803. They crossed the continent, 

 reaching the mouth of the Columbia River, and with the loss of but 

 one man, returned and arrived at St. Louis on the 23d of Septem- 

 ber, 1806. To carry a band of men such as he commanded safely 

 through a journey of so many miles, over a period of three years, 

 and in a strange country inhabited by wild people whose habits and 

 character were wholly unknown, and where the subsistence for his 

 men must have been a continual source of anxiety, called for cool- 

 ness, good judgment, and executive ability of no mean order. It is 

 a question whether the services of these great men — Lewis, and his 

 able coadjutor, Clark — have ever been fully appreciated by the 

 country they served. To aid somewhat in doing full justice to the 

 memories of these great explorers has been one of the inducements 

 to prepare the present paper, which it is hoped may also be regarded 

 as a contribution to botanical history. 



The idea of exploration originated with Jefferson. In 1792 he 

 tried to interest the American Philosophical Society in the plan. 

 It was approved, and it was decided to place the expedition in 

 charge of Andre Michaux. Reasons of State policy arising out of 

 our relation with Michaux's country, caused its abandonment. 

 Lewis was Jefferson's private Secretary, and under him the expedi- 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ' 13 



tion finally started. Among his other instructions from Jefferson, 

 they were to note the food plants of the Indians and the " dates at 

 which particular plants put forth flowers and leaves." If only they 

 had heen authorized to make complete botanical collections, and a 

 competent collector made part of the expedition, how great a boon 

 would it not have been to botanical science ! From the few they 

 did collect, Pursh in his " Flora America? Septentrionalis," pub- 

 lished in London in 1814, refers to 119, many of which he de- 

 scribed as wholly new. 



What became of the complete collection has never been defi- 

 nitely ascertained up to this time. Pursh says in his preface to the 

 work cited, that after his return from his expedition to the Great 

 Lakes in 1806, Captain Lewis gave him the collection in order to 

 describe and figure those he thought to be new. " The collection 

 was made during the rapid return from the Pacific. A much more 

 extensive one made on their slow ascent toward the Rocky Mount- 

 ains and the chains of the northern Andes, had unfortunately been 

 lost, by being deposited among other things at the foot of these 

 mountains. The loss of this fine collection is the more to be regret- 

 ted, when I consider that the small collection communicated tome, 

 consisting of about 150 specimens, contained but about a dozen 

 plants well known to be natives of North America." It was under- 

 stood that Pursh took these plants to England, and that they were 

 left by him to Mr. A. B. Lambert, Vice-President of the Linnsean 

 Society, under whose roof, and by whose aid, Pursh 's great work was 

 completed. Lambert's herbarium was finally distributed, and, in 

 some way not known to the writer, a number of Lewis' plants, 

 forming Pursh's types, and marked "from Lambert's Herbarium" 

 became part of the Herbarium of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia. 



Two years ago Professor C. S. Sargent suggested to the writer 

 the possibility of some of the material being yet in the custody of 

 the American Philosophical Society. The special attention to nat- 

 ural history of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 

 — the leading members of this and the American Philosophical 

 Society being the same — has not warranted the formation of natural 

 history collections by the latter. After long and diligent search, 

 packages of plants were found which could only be these, as the 

 localities on the label slips were about the same as those given in 

 Pursh's work. But the hand-writing was that of a German, and 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



occasionally there would be a reference to a genus or family of 

 plants exhibiting more botanical knowledge than Captain Lewis or 

 any oue in his command was known to possess. The plants are 

 in the original packages as presented many years ago. The paper 

 on which the specimens were placed had been in botanical use 

 before. On one of these was written the following expense bill : — 



May 26. Books and paper $2 00 



Stage fare 3 00 



Expenses that night 37 



May 27. Expenses on the road to Easton 1 00 



May 28, 29, 30. Easton, including breakfast 31, and 



supper 29 4 37 



May 31. Richmond dinner, supper, lodging and drinks 1 00 



It so happened that I had the pleasure of giving to the public in 

 the Gardener's Monthly of 1869, what was believed to be Pursh's 

 diary of his trip to the Great Lakes. It commences by saying May 

 26th, '.'prepared myself for the journey," and 27th, "at 4 

 o'clock this morning we left Philadelphia, the stage being remarka- 

 ble full of passengers" — "arrived at 10 o'clock at Easton." On 

 another sheet was found written, as if trying the virtue of a new 

 quill pen, "Frederick Pursh, his hand." There could be no doubt 

 about these being Lewis' plants, and that they had been through 

 Pursh's hands. It was still a mystery how Pursh came to make all 

 the memoranda incident to the collecting of each specimen, on each 

 of these labels. 



With the freedom of three-quarters of a century the museum 

 beetles had made sad work in the bundles. In a few cases the speci- 

 imens had been wholly reduced to dust, and only fragments were left 

 in other cases. Generally, however, they were in fair condition. 

 The Philosophical Society wisely accepted a proposition to deposit 

 these and other collections with the Academy of Natural Sciences, 

 where they would be properly cared for. 



The collection was, as Pursh stated, made for the most part on the 

 return trip. Many specimens, as the labels show, were collected 

 and saved between the Rocky Mountains and Fort Clatsop, their 

 winter quarters near the Columbia River. 



While in doubt as to the authorship of the labels attached to 

 the specimens, note was made of an entry in the minutes of the 

 American Philosophical Society under date of Nov. 15, 1805, that 

 a box of plants was received from Captain Merewether Lewis. The 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



seeds were sent to Mr. William Hamilton, and the " Hortus Siccus 

 referred to Dr. Barton to examine and report." A full examina- 

 tion of the collection, revealed this package also. It contained the 

 plants collected in 1804 between St. Louis and Fort Mandan. 

 Pursh had evidently been over this, as in many instances the labels 

 were similar to those in the other package ; but a number had the 

 original memoranda in the hand-writing of Captain Lewis. These 

 were written wholly across the sheet containing the specimens. 

 Pursh had evidently copied them in order to have small compact 

 labels for the specimens, and while doing so, had occasionally added 

 the more technical botanical points already adverted to. He 

 evidently studied these collections before starting to Europe with 

 them, leaving the duplicates, where there were any, and those which 

 were too imperfect to be easily recognized. A comparison of 

 Lewis's own labels and Pursh's copies shows that the latter were 

 not always strictly copied — differences can be seen in the compari- 

 sons made in the Catalogue. Pursh's notes were probably made 

 from Lewis's original memoranda carried away with the speci- 

 mens, and are, therefore the more likely to be the exact statements 

 of the collectors, than the copies left with these. 



After determining the plants in the collection as far as I could, 

 considering the fragmentary condition of many of them, I handed 

 them over for correction to Dr. B. L. Robinson of the Gray 

 Herbarium. With their return, I received the following letter. 



"The identification of the Lewis and Clark plants has now been 

 completed and I am happy to be able to send you a list, as Mr. 

 Greenman and I understand them. We have worked over the 

 plants together for greater accuracy, discussing almost every 

 specimen. In any reference to work done here upon the plants, 

 kindly associate the name of Mr. Greenman with my own. The 

 plan of the list is to show in double columns : — 1st, what the plant 

 actually is, according to present ideas of classification, then the 

 actual locality and date which the accompanying label bears; 

 2nd, in the other column, is shown what Pursh appears to have 

 called the plant in his Flora, provided he mentioned it clearly ; also 

 the locality and date which he there ascribed to it. I think that 

 the advantage of this parallel column presentation of this impor- 

 tant collection will be readily evident to you. 



Perhaps the most interesting find in the collection is the unlabelled 

 Clematis. Now as this is the only Clematis represented, and the only 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



one mentioned by Pursh as having been collected by Lewis and Clark 

 was his C. hirsidissima, there is every reason to believe that this is 

 the real type (or portion of type) of C. hirsidissima Pnrsh. But 

 the specimen is certainly C. Douglasii Hook., a later species, and 

 not Anemone patens, as it has been traditionally interpreted. On 

 reading the description of C. hirsidissima in Pursh's Flora it is 

 impossible to doubt that it refers to C. Douglasii with its 4 sepals, 

 not Anemone patens with its 5 to 8 sepals. This fact was, I think, 

 guessed by Mr. Coville, some years ago, but I fail to find any pub- 

 lication of it. Certainly Prof. Britton in his Flora does not challenge 

 the identity of Anemone patens, var. Nuttalliana with Clematis hir- 

 sidissima, for he still keeps up his Anemone hirsidissima (Pursh) 

 Britton. 



It seems only right that C. Douglasii Hook, should give place to 

 the older and well described (although long misunderstood) C. hir- 

 sidissima Pursh. This is certainly an interesting point. Perhaps 

 before publishing it, it might be courteous to Mr. Coville to inquire 

 whether he had already published or had in press anything on the 

 subject, which is unlikely. Some reference also might be made 

 to the fact that he had independently and without a knowledge of 

 Lewis's type discovered from the description the probable identity 

 of C. hirsutissima, Pursh. 



In the list, Anemone quinquefolia is used to mean all N. American 

 "A. nemorosa," not in the sense in which Pursh understood it, 

 namely as covering only the quinquefoliolate form. 



The type of Cleome serrulata Pursh (at least one of the specimens) 

 shows slight serrulation of the leaves, so that the name ought not to 

 give place to the later C. integrifolia Torr. & Gray, although the 

 latter is, in general, more appropriate, or would be if the authors had 

 only written integrifoliolata. 



The specimen of Lewisia triphylla (Claytonia triphylla Wats.) ex- 

 tends the known range of the species to Idaho. 



Pursh's Oxytropis argentata is evidently larger than 0. nana Nutt. 

 to which it has traditionally been referred, and also has longer, more 

 slender calyx lobes. Perhaps these are only varietal differences. 

 Their value can be told only by some one with a monographic 

 knowledge of the genus. 



Strangely enough Pursh's Pedicularis elata looks exceedingly like 

 P. scopulorum Gray from a very different range. It is certainly 

 not P. bracteosa Benth. to which it is traditionally referred. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



There are two species of Festuca upon which we cannot give any 

 definite opinion ; might they not be referred to Prof. Scribner at 

 Washington ? 



The alga (Egregia Menziesii) was identified by Dr. Farlow. 



Various other points will be apparent to you from the list. Pos- 

 sibly you will be able to identify still more of the plants (as now 

 named) with the descriptions of Pursh's Flora. 



I wish once more to express my gratitude to you for the great 

 privilege of examining this remarkably valuable and interesting 

 collection. The plants, carefully packed, are today returned." 



The work by Messrs Robinson and Greenman is so carefully and 

 thoroughly done, that I have used their manuscript. I have added 

 by way of notes, such matters as may not have been covered by the 

 work of these good friends. 



LEWIS AND CLARK PLANTS AS DETERMINED BY B. L. ROBINSON 



AND J. M. GREENMAN AT THE HERBARIUM OF HARVARD 



UNIVERSITY, OCTOBER, 1897. 



Present name of plant, followed Treatment of plant in Pursh's 

 by data on accompanying labels. Flora, whenever specifically men- 

 Bracketed notes added during tioned. Bracketed notes added 

 identification. during identification. 



Anemone Canadensis L. 



(A. Pennsylvania L.). Prai- 

 ries ; in the camp near the old 

 Maha village, August 17, 1804. 1 



Anemone quinquefolia L. 



On the waters of the Koos- 

 kooskee, June 15, 1806. [Flow- 

 ering stem with involucre]. 



Clematis Douglasii Hook. [_ w j t h sca rcely a doubt C. Mr- 



[No label ; a single flower, but sutissima Pursh, Fl. 385, being 



well identifiable]. the only species ascribed to 



Lewis' herbarium]. On the plains 

 of the Columbia River. % . May, 

 v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 



1 Pursh describes Anemone tenella Fl., 386, " from the banks of the Missouri, 

 Mr. Lewis, — May." A tenella is regarded by Hooker as synonymous with A. 

 dichotoma L., which Dr. Robhison refers to A. Canadensis L. A. dichotoma 

 is not noted in the Flora as being from " Lewis." It is possible this speci- 

 men is the type of his tenella. 




18 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



Delphinium Menziesii DC. 



On the Columbia, April 14, 

 1806. A sort of Larkspur with 

 3 styles. [Poor specimen]. 



Dentaria tenella Pursh. 



Columbia near quicksands, 

 April 1, 180G. [Complete, very 

 slender plant]. 2 



Erysimum asperum DC. 



On the Kooskooskee, June 1, 

 1806. [Whole plant, in flower]. 3 



Cleome integrifolia Torr. & Gray. 



Cleome serrulata var. roseus, 

 Nova species. Specimens from 

 White River, August 29, 1806. 

 Cleome. A new species. [Poor 

 specimen]. 



Cleome integrifolia Torr. & Gray. 



No. 43, August 25th, growth 

 of the open prairies. Open prai- 

 ries, August 25, 1804. 



Cerastium arvense L. 



Plains of Columbia, April 22, 

 1806. [Good specimen]. 



Pursh, Fl. 439. On the banks 

 of the Columbia. 2/. Apr. v. s. 

 in Herb. Lewis. 



E. lanceolatum Pursh, F1.436 

 (not R. Br.). On the banks of 

 the Missouri. $ . June, v. s. 



C. serrulata Pursh, Fl. 441. 

 On the banks of the Missouri. 

 O. Aug. v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 

 [Leaves are slightly serrulate 

 and name should stand]. 



C. serrulata Pursh, Fl. 441. 

 On the banks of the Missouri. 

 ©. Aug. v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 



[Pursh says of it : glabra, 

 which is certainly true of the 

 stem, and it may, therefore, be 

 safely separated from the very 

 pubescent plant Polanisia trachy- 

 sperma T. & G. (?) with which 

 the specimen is mixed]. 



C. elongatum Pursh, Fl. 321. 

 On the plains of Columbia River, 

 M. Lewis. % . April, v. s. in 

 Herb. Lewis. 4 



2 The specimen from which the description was evidently taken, in the 

 herbarium of the Academy, has not the tuberous root as this has. 



3 Erysimum asperum DC 



Pursh has overlooked this specimen from ''Rockford Camp, April 17, 

 1806,'' and describes E. lanceolatum, which is not distinct, from the collection 

 of Bradbury on the Missouri. 



4 Cerastium arvense L. 



Cerastium elongatum Pursh, I, 321, " on the plains of the Columbia River, 

 Mr. Lewis, April." The label with specimen reads '• Plains of Columbia, 

 April 22, 1806." Modern collators give it as a synonym of C. arvense, but 

 with the excellent specimen now in hand, it seems to be a good species. It is 

 not merely hirsute, but glandular viscid in all its parts. Its remarkably long 

 narrow leaves, very leafy nodes with short internodes, are characters which it 

 does not share with any forms of C. arvense in our herbarium. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



Malvastrum coccineum Gray. Cristaria coccinea Pursh, Fl. 



A small malvaceous plant, 453. On dry prairies and ex- 



probably a species of Malope. tensive plains of Missouri. %. 



Plains of Missouri, July 20, 1806. Aug. v. v., v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 

 [Good specimen]. 



Linum Lewisii Pursh. Pursh. Fl. 210. In the val- 



Perennial Flax. Valleys of leys of the Rocky Mountains and 



the Rocky Mountains, July 9, on the banks of the Missouri, M. 



1806. [Excellent specimen]. Lewis, % . July, v. v. 5 



Claytonia lanceolata Pursh. Pursh, Fl. 175, t. 3. On the 



Headwaters of the Kooskoos- Rocky Mountains, M.Lewis. %. 



kee, June 27, 1806. [Good spec- July, v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 6 

 imen]. 



Lewisia triphylla Rob. 



On the waters of the Koos- 

 kooskee within theRocky Mount- 

 ains, June 27, 1806. {Claytonia 

 triphylla Wats.). [Extends 

 range to Idaho]. 



Lewisia rediviva Pursh. Pursh, Fl. 368. On the banks 



The Indians eat the root of of Clark's River. % . July, v. 

 this. Near Clark's River, July, s. in Herb. Lewis. 

 1, 1806. The calyx consists of 

 6 or 7 leaves, the corolla many 

 petals and stamens .... capsule. 

 [Several flowers only]. 



5 Linum Lewisii Pursh. 



"Perennial flax. Valleys of the Rocky Mountains, July 19, 1806." 

 Pursh I, 210, adds to the above, " and on the Banks of the Missouri, July, 

 Mr. Lewis. Flowers large, blue, a very good perennial, and it might proba- 

 bly become a useful plant if cultivated." 



6 Claytonia perfoliata Don . 



"On the Columbia, moist ground, March 26, 1806." Pursh seems to have 

 been in some confusion with his Claytonias. He quotes " Mr. Lewis, on the 

 Rocky Mountains. April and May." There is another specimen labelled 

 " Rocky Camp, April 17, 1806." 

 Claytonia lanceolata Pursh 



"On the headwaters of the Kooskooskee, June 27. 1806." Pursh says : 

 "On the Rocky Mountains, Mr. Lewis, June." Hooker, noting the flowers, 

 which do not correspond with the present specimens, refers the whole as a 

 synonym of C. Caroliniana, which the flowers on the picture at p. 175 of 

 Pursh's Flora certainly resemble. The flowers are, however, subumbellate, 

 and the species is certainly a good one. 

 Claytonia Siberica L. 



"'Columbia River, April 8, 1806." Pursh, describing his C lanceolata, 

 says, " in the collection of A. B. Lambert, Esq., I found a specimen collected 




20 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



Montia parviflora Howell, form. 



On the Columbia, in moist 

 ground, March 26, 1806. [A 

 very poor and indefinite speci- 

 men]. 



Montia parviflora Howell. 



Rocky camp, April 17, 1806. 

 [Good specimen]. 



Montia Sibirica Howell. 



Columbia River, April 8, 1806. 

 [Fair specimen]. 



Pachystima Myrsinites Raf. 



Rocky Mountains, June 16, 

 1806. 



Pachystima Myrsinites Raf. 

 A small shrub about 4 



feet 



high with a small purple berry, 

 evergreen 



Near the Pacific 

 Ocean, November 16,1805. [Sec- 

 ond specimen]. 



Ceanothus velutinus Dougl. 



An evergreen ; a shrub about 

 8 or 9 feet high. On the Rocky 

 Mountains ; waters of the Koos- 

 kooskee. [Probably not C. 

 sanguineus Pursh, although that 

 species collected by Lewis on the 

 upper Missouri does not appear 

 in collection.] 



Claytonia perfoliata Pursh 

 (not Don.), Fl. 176. On the 

 Rocky Mountains, M. Lewis. ©. 

 April, May, v. v. in Hort. 



Claytonia alsinoides Pursh, Fl. 

 175. On the Columbia River, 

 M. Lewis. ©. May, June, v. 

 v. in Hort. 



Ilex? myrsinites Pursh, Fl. 

 119. On the Rocky Mountains 

 and near the Pacific Ocean, M. 

 Lewis. \ . July, August, v. s. 

 in Herb. Lewis. 7 



Pursh, Fl. 1. c. 



in the eastern parts of Siberia perfectly agreeing with the present species." 

 He evidently had this in mind when writing of C lanceolata. 

 Claytonia linearis Dougl. 



'• On the waters of the Kooskooskee within the Rocky Mountains, June 27, 

 1806," another wholly overlooked by Pursh. 



7 Pursh described it as an Ilex doubtfully, and named Ilex? myrsinites, and 

 quotes it as '' on the Rocky Mountains, and near the Pacific Ocean, Mr. 

 Lewis, July and August. Rafinesque subsequently constructed the genus 

 Pachystima for it. No one has been able to explain the derivation of this 

 name. In the description of Lewis' plant, Pursh writes : " Stigma 4-lobum, 

 crassum. Rafinesque, no doubt, wrote Pachystigma, and the orthography 

 should be corrected accordingly. 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



21 



Rhamnus Purshiana DC. jR. alnifolia Pursh (not 



A shrub apparently a species Michx.), Fl. 166. On the banks 



of the Kooskooskee, M. Lewis. 

 b_ . May, v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 



of Rhamnus. About 12 feet high 

 in clumps ; fruit a 5-valved pur- 

 ple berry, which the natives eat 

 and esteem highly. The berry 

 depressed, globous. On the waters 

 of the Kooskooskee, May 29, 

 1806. 



Rhus Canadensis var. trilobata Gray. 

 No. 57, October 1, 1804. First 

 discovered in the neighborhood 

 of the Kancez River, now very 

 common. The growth of the lit- 

 tle copses which appear on the 

 steep declivities of the hills where 

 they are sheltered from the rava- 

 ges of the fire. Common on the 

 declivity of hills; October 1, 

 1804. 



Cissus Ampelopsis Pers. 



Near Council Bluffs, Missouri, 

 September 14, 1806. [Leaves, 

 stem, peduncles and pedicels. 

 Lewis' specimen not mentioned 

 by Pursh, who gives range of 

 species as Allegheny Mountains, 

 Pennsylvania to Carolina]. 



Acer circinatum Pursh. Pursh, Fl. 267. On the great 



A very handsome species of rapids of Columbia River, M. 

 maple. On the great rapids of Lewis. b_ . v. s. s. fl. 8 

 Columbia, October, 1805. [Ster- 

 ile, but highly characteristic and 

 unmistakable]. 



8 Acer circinatum Pursh. 



" A very handsome species of Maple. On the Grand Eapids of the Colum- 

 bia, October. 1805." Pursh, Vol. I, 267, says : " on the Grand Rapids of the 

 Columbia River, M. Lewis. This beautiful species has the leaves of the size 

 of Acer rubrum." 




22 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



Acer macrophyllum Pursh. Pursh, Fl. 267. On the great 



A large timber tree from the rapids of the Columbia River, M. 

 grand rapids of the Columbia, Lewis. \ . April, v. s. 

 April 10, 1806. [A single leaf, 

 but readily recognizable]. 



Polygala alba Nutt. Poly gala Seneca var. tenuifolia 



A kind of Seneca snake root. Pursh, Fl. 750. On the Missouri, 

 On the Missouri River, August Lewis and Bradbury, v. s. 

 10, 1806. [Fairly complete spec- 

 imen]. 



Amorpha fruticosa var. angustifolia 

 Pursh. 



On the great bend of the Mis- 

 souri, August 27, 1806. [Good 

 specimen in fruit]. 



Astragalus Missouriensis Nutt. 



No. 36, 18th September. The 

 growth of the high prairies. 



Astragalus Mortoni Nutt. 



No. 46. The growth of the 

 open prairies, taken 15th of Sep- 

 tember, 1804. Astragalus nov. 

 spec. Open prairies, September 

 5, 1804. May be A. Uralensis ? 

 L. 9 



Lupinus argenteus Pursh. 



On the Cokahlaishkit, July 7, 

 1806. Flowers yellowish-white. 

 [Good specimen]. 



Pursh, Fl. 466, var. y v. s. in 

 Herb. Lewis. 



Pursh, Fl. 468. On the banks 

 of the Kooskooskee, M. Lewis. 

 2/. June, July, v. s. in Herb. 

 Lambert. Flowers small, cream 

 coloured. 



9 Astragalus Mortotii Nuttall. 



" The growth of the open prairie loth September, 1804." Pursh describes 

 Astralagtis tenellus " on the banks of the Missouri, M. Lewis, August." From 

 the difference in these two observations it is not clear that this specimen is 

 the one Pursh had in view. Pursh's A. tenellus is referred to A. ?nultiflorus 

 by modern authors, but Pursh's description of A. tenellus does not accord witli 

 A. multifiorus. The specimens are badly eaten, but are sufficient to make it 

 probable A. tenellus Pursh, should be referred to A, Mortoni Nuttall and, 

 perhaps, the name have priority. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 



Lupiiius sericeus Pursh. New spe- 



23 



cies. 



Flowers cream colored with a 

 small tinge of blue. On the 

 Kooskooskee, June 5, 180b. 

 [Tolerable specimen]. 



(The labels of these two speci- 

 mens of Lupinus were confused.) 



Oxytropis nana Nutt. var. 



Near the head of Clark's Riv- 

 er, July, 1806. [Differs from 

 type in having calyx teeth longer 

 also plant larger, leaflets longer]. 



Petalostemon violaceus Michx. 



On the Missouri, July 22,1806. 

 [Stem, leaves and spike of flow- 

 ers]. 



Petalostemon violaceus Michx. 



Found September 2d ; the In- 

 dians use it as an application to 

 fresh wounds, they bruise the 

 leaves adding a little water and 

 apply it. [Sterile specimen only, 

 and accordingly doubtful], 



Psoralea argophylla Pursh. 



No. 48, No. 103, October 17, 

 1804. A decoction of the plant 

 used by the Indians to wash their 

 wounds. [Sterile, but character- 

 istic specimen]. 



Psoralea tenuiflora Pursh. 



Big bend of Missouri, Septem- 

 ber 21, 1804. [Stem and 

 leaves]. 



Pursh, Fl. 468. On the banks 

 of the Kooskooskee, M. Lewis. 

 % . July, v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 

 Flowers pale purple or rose col- 

 ored. 



O. argentata Pursh, Fl. 473. 

 On the banks of Clark's River, 

 M. Lewis. %. July, v. s. in 

 Herb. Lewis. 10 



Pursh, Fl. 461. In Tennessee, 

 Illinois, and on the banks of the 

 Missouri. % . July, September, 

 v. v. 



Pursh, Fl. 1. c. 



Pursh, Fl. 475. On the banks 

 of the Missouri. 2/ . v. s. 



Pursh, Fl. 475. On the banks 

 of the Missouri, M. Lewis. 2/ . 

 September, v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 



10 Oxytropis nana Nutt. 



" Near the headwaters of Clark's Kiver, July, 1806." Described by Pursh, 

 Fl. p. 473, as Oxytropis argentata. 




24 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



Trifolium megacephalum Nutt. 



A species of clover near Rock- 

 ford Camp, on high hills, April 

 17, 1806. [Specimen consists of 

 a head on peduncle and several 

 detached leaves]. 



Trifolium microcephalum Pursh. 



Valley of Clark's River, July 

 1, 1806. [Good specimen cor- 

 responds well with later plants 

 placed in species]. 



Amelanchier alnifolia Nutt. 



Service berry. A small bush, 

 the narrows of Columbia River, 

 April 15, 1806. 



Crataegus Douglasii Lindl. 



Deep purple Haw. Columbia 

 River, April 29, 1806. 



Geum triflorum Pursh. 



On open ground, common on 

 the waters of the Kooskooskee, 

 June 12, 1806. No. 2. 



Pyrus sambucifolia Cham. & Schlecht ? 



On the tops of the highest 



peaks and mountains, June 27, 



Lupinaster macrocep halus 

 Pursh, Fl. 479, t. 23. At the 

 headwaters of the Missouri, M. 

 Lewis. % . April, May, v. s. 

 in Herb. Lewis. 



Pursh, Fl. 478. On the banks 

 of Clark's River, M. Lewis. % . 

 July, v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 



Pyrus sanguinea Pursh, Fl. 

 340, in part. In Canada and on 

 the banks of the Columbia. \ . 

 April, May, v. v. 11 



C. glandtdosns Pursh, Fl. 337, 

 in part, not Willd. M. Lewis, 

 Esq., collected it on the Rocky 

 Mountains. 12 



Geum ciliatum Pursb, F1.352. 

 On the banks of the Kooskooskee. 

 1}. . June, v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 13 



11 Amelanchier alnifolia Nutt. 



"Service berry; a small bush. The narrows of the Columbia, April 15, 

 1806 " Pursh describes this, I, 340, as Pyrus sanguinea, and must have over- 

 looked this specimen. He quotes " in Canada and on the banks of the 

 Columbia, April, May." 



12 Crataegus Douglasii Lindley. 



" Deep purple Haw. Columbia Eiver, April 19, 1806." A mate to this 

 specimen is in the Herb. Ac. Nat. Sciences, labelled by Pursh " Crataegus 

 glandulosa" and described as such in Flora, I, 337. In the Journal dated 

 Fort Clatsop, January 20, 1806. The " brown haws berries growing 18 or 20 

 in a clump " must refer to this species. 



13 Geum triflorum Pursh. 



"On open ground, common on the waters of the Kooskooskee, June 12, 

 1806." The flowers are scarcely open. Pursh did not evidently recognize 

 it in this condition, but drew his description from a Bradbury Missouri 

 specimen. He probably had this specimen in mind when describing his Geum 

 ciliatum. 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



25 



1806, in the Rocky Mountains. 

 [Specimen very poor, sterile, not 

 precisely determinable]. 



Potentilla Anserina L. 



The roots are eaten by the na- 

 tives, and taste like sweet pota- 

 toes ; grows in marshy ground. 

 Fort Clatsop, March 13, 1806. 



Potentilla fruticosa L. 



Prairie of the Knobs ; July 5, 



Pursh, Fl. 355. On the banks 

 of rivers in Canada and on the 



1806. [Small but characteristic waters of the Rocky Mountains, 



specimen]. 



Prunus demissa Nutt. 



Prunus, a cherry found near 

 the beaver bents on the Missouri, 

 August 10, 1806. [Specimen 

 poor and sterile]. 



Prunus Virginiana L. 



Prunus, Choak or Pidgeon 

 Cherry. On the waters of the 

 Kooskonskee, 29th May, 1806. 

 [Specimen poor and sterile]. 



Prunus T 



Near the base of the Rocky 

 mounts on the west side near Col- 

 lins's Creek. The shrub about 6 

 or 7 feet high ; June 27, 1806. 

 [Unrecognizable]. 



Prunus ? 



A shrub about 6 feet high from 

 the Kooskooskee, May 7, 1806. 

 [Unrecognizable; dark purple 

 stem, elliptic serrulate leaves]. 



Prunus sp. 



A smaller shrub than the 

 Choak berry, the natives count 

 it a good fruit. On the Koos- 



3 



June, August, Lewis, v. v. in 

 Hortis, v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 




26 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



kooskee, 29th May, 1806. [Too 

 poor for identification]. 1 * 



Purshia tridentata DC. 



A shrub common to the open 

 prairie of the knobs, July 6, 1806. 

 [Good specimen]. 



Rosa Woodsii Lindl. 



No. 50. October 18th. The 

 small rose of the prairies, it rises 

 from 12 to 14 inches high ; does 

 not vine. Rosa, open prairies, 

 September 5, 1804. 15 



Rubus Nutkanus var. velutinus Brew. 



A shrub of which the natives 

 eat the young sprout without 

 cooking. On the Columbia, 

 April 15, 1806. 



Rubus spectabilis Pursh. 



Fruit like a raspberry. Colum- 

 bia, March 27, 1806. [A fairly 

 good specimen showing stem, 

 leaves and flowers]. 



Spiraea discolor Pursh. 



A shrub growing much in the 

 manner of Nine bark. On the 

 waters of the Kooskooskee, May 

 29, 1806. 



Tig area tridentata Pursh, Fl. 

 333, t. 15. In the prairies of the 

 Rocky Mountains and on the 

 Columbia River. b_ . July, v. 

 s. in Herb. Lewis. 



Pursh, Fl. 348, t. 16. On the 

 banks of the Columbia, M. Lewis, 

 on the northwest coast, Menzies. 

 \ . April, May, v. s. in Herb. 

 Lewis nee non Banks. 16 



Pursh, Flora, 342. On the 

 banks of the Kooskooskee. b_ . 

 June, July, v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 



u Primus putnila L. 



Though but a single leaf is left with the branch, it is evidently the one 

 referred to as "a smaller shrub than the ' choak' cherry. The natives ac- 

 count it good fruit." 



15 Rosa Woodsii Lindl ey. 



"October 18, 1804. The small rose of the prairies; it rises from 12 to 14 

 inches, and does not vine." Only a small branch without flower. At this 

 ■date they were at or near Fort Mandan. May 18th, at Chopunnish camp, 

 they ' saw the wild roses in bloom," but this is probably one of the forms 

 more closely related to R. cinnamomea. 



16 Rubus spectabilis Pursh. 



" Fruit like a raspberry. Columbia, March 27, 1806." Pursh described and 

 figured I, p. H48, " on the banks of the Columbia." The Journal o{ June 10th, 

 at Chopunnish camp, notes that " purple raspberries were ripe and abundant." 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



27 



Philadelphia Lewisii Pursh ? 



A shrub fromtheKooskooskee, 

 May 6, 1806. A Philadelphia? 

 [Sterile and too poor for certain 

 identification]. 



Philadelphia Lewisii Pursh. 



On the waters of Clark'sRiver, 

 July 4, 1806. [Fairly good 

 flowering specimen]. 



Ribes aureum Pursh. 



Yellow flowering currant. 

 Near the narrows of the Colum- 

 bia River, April 16, 1806. [Very 

 poor specimen]. 



Eibes aureum Pursh. 



Yellow currant of the Mis- 

 souri, July 29, 1805. [The thing, 

 but from date not the type]. 



Ribes Menziesii Pursh? 



Deep Purple Gooseberry. 

 Columbia River, April 8, 1806. 



Ribes sanguineum Pursh. 



Columbia, March 27, 1806. 



Ribes viscosissimum Pursh. 



Fruit indifferent and gummy. 

 The heights of the Rocky Mount- 

 ains, June 16, 1806. 



Pursh, Fl. 329. 



Pursh, Fl. 329. On the waters 

 of Clark's River. \ . July, v. s. 

 in Herb. Lewis. 



Pursh, Fl. 164. On the banks 

 of the rivers Missouri and Co- 

 lumbia, M. Lewis. \ . April, v. 

 s. in Herb. Lewis, v. v. in Hort. 



Pursh, Fl. 164. 



Pursh, Fl. 372. [Pursh does 

 not mention Lewis' specimen or 

 its range]. 17 



Pursh, Fl. 164. On the Co- 

 lumbia River, M. Lewis. \ . 

 March, v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 



Pursh, Fl. 163. On the Rocky 

 Mountains in the interior of 

 North America, M. Lewis. 1? . 

 June, v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 18 



17 Ribes Menziesii Pursh. 



" Deep purple Gooseberry. Columbia River, April 8, 1806." Specimens 

 now wholly leafless. Pursh described his species from a specimen collected 

 by Menzies, not perceiving, apparently, the specimen in this collection. 



18 Ribes sp. 



In the Meteorological Journal, under date of March 27, 1806 — " The red 

 flowering currant is in bloom. This I take to be the same species I first saw 

 in the Rocky Mountains. The fruit is a deep purple berry, covered with a 

 gummy substance, and not agreeably flavored. There is another species not 

 covered with gum, which I first found on the headwaters of the Columbia, 

 about 12th of August last." The former is evidently R. sanguineum. 




28 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



Clarkia pulchella Pursh. 



A beautiful herbaceous plant 

 from the Kooskooskee and 

 Clark's River, June 1, 1806. 

 [Fair specimen]. 



(Enothera csespitosa Nutt. 



Near the falls of the Missouri, 

 17th July, 1806. [Good speci- 

 men]. 



(Enothera heterantha Nutt. 



In moist ground on the Squa- 

 inash flats, June 14, 1806. [Good 

 specimen]. 



Sedum stenopetalum Pursh. 



Valley of Clark's River, July 

 1, 1806. On the naked rocks of 

 the Kooskooskee, June 15, 1806. 



Angelica, within the Rocky 

 Mountains in moist places, June 

 25, 1806. The flowering one 

 taken on September 3, 1805. 

 [Label only], 



[Probably a Peucedanum, poor 

 specimen, no fruit]. A large, 

 fusiform root which the natives 

 prepare by baking; near the 

 Sepulchre Rock. On the Colum- 

 bia River, April 14, 1806. 



Peucedanum leiooarpum Nutt. 



Supposed to be a Smymium. 

 The natives eat the tops and boil 

 it sometimes with their soup. On 

 the Columbia, April 15, 1806. 



Pursh, Fl. 260, t. 11. On the 

 Kooskooskee and Clark's Riv- 

 ers, M. Lewis. $ . June, v. s. 



O. scapigera Pursh, Fl. 263. 

 On the falls of the Missouri, M. 

 Lewis. 2/ . July, v. s. 



O. ccespitosa Pursh, Fl. 735. 

 On the banks of the Missouri, M. 

 Lewis. 2/. June, July, v. s. spec- 

 imen imperfectum in Herb. Lewis. 



Pursh, Fl. 324. On rucks on 

 the banks of Clark's River and 

 Kooskooskee. 11. June, July, v. 

 s. in Herb. Lewis. 



Smymium nudicaule] Pursh, 

 Fl. 196. On the Columbia 

 River, M. Lewis. %. April, 

 May, v. s. in Herb. Lewis. The 

 natives eat the tops of this plant 

 and boil it in their soups, the 

 same as we use celery. [Erro- 

 neously placed under Ferula and 

 Peucedanum nudicaule Nutt.] 




NATURAL SCIENCE8 OF PHILADELPHIA. 



1898.] 



Peucedanum simplex Nutt. (or P. tri- 

 ternatum Pursh.) 



A root 5 or 6 inches long eaten 

 raw or boiled by the natives. On 

 the Kooskooskee, May 6, 1806. 

 [Leaves only, and species very 

 doubtful. P. tritematum is said 

 to grow on the waters of the 

 Columbia]. 

 Peucedanum utriculatum Nutt. ? 



A great horse medicine among 

 the natives. On the Kooskoos- 

 kee, June 10, 1806. Grows on 

 rich upland. [Specimen poor 

 and not certainly identifiable]. 



An umbelliferous plant of the 

 root of which the Wallowallows 

 make a kind of bread. The na- 

 tives call it Shappalell. April 

 29, 1806. [Sterile and n o t 

 placed ; leaves and root]. 19 



[Label only]. 



A species of Fennel root eaten 

 by the Indians, of an annis-seed 

 taste; flowers white. Columbia 

 River, April 25, 1806. 



[Unidentifiable]. 



An umbelliferous plant with 

 large fusiform root which the 

 natives bake and eat. On the 

 Columbia, April 15, 1806. 

 [Unidentifiable, stems only]. 



An umbelliferous plant, of 

 which the natives don't eat the 

 root. On the Columbia, April 

 14, 1806. 



29 



Phellandrium aquaticum Pursh 

 (not L.), Fl. 195. On the waters 

 of the Rocky Mountains, M. 

 Lewis. %. July, v. s. in Herb. 

 Lewis. The Indians of that 

 country use it as a medicine in 

 the diseases of horses. 



19 I suggested no name for this when sending the collection to Dr. Robin- 

 son, but am now inclined to regard it as Cynwpte?'us campestris Nutt. There is 

 no specimen in our herbarium to compare it with. 




30 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



Cornus Canadensis L. 



Root horizontal. June 16, 

 1806, Collins Creek. 



Lonicera ciliosa Poir. 



On the Kooskooskee, June 5, 

 1806. 



Lonicera ciliosa Poir. 



Rocky Mountains, June 16, 

 1806. [Poor and sterile, but 

 characteristic]. 21 



Lonicera involucrata Banks. 



Shrub within the Rocky 

 Mountains,found in raoistground 

 near branches of rivulets, July 

 7, 1806. No. 5 found on the 

 waters of the Columbia, Septem- 

 ber 2, 1805. The growth of a 

 moist situation seldom rises 

 higher than 6 or 8 feet ; puts up 

 a number of succulent sprouts, 

 forming a thick bush. [Stems 

 only]. 



Achillea Millefolium L. 



Camp on the Kooskooskee, 

 May 20,1806. 



Aplopappus spinulosus DC. 



Prairies, September 15, 1804. 



Caprifolmm ciliosum Pursh, 

 Fl. 160. On the banks of the 

 Kooskooskee, M. Lewis. >j . June 

 v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 20 



Caprifolmm ciliosum Pursh, 

 [but not the type specimen]. 



A. tomentosa Pursh, (n o t 

 Willd.), Fl. 563. On the banks 

 of the Kooskooskee, M. Lewis. 11 . 

 June, v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 22 



Amellus spinulosus Pursh, Fl. 

 564. In open prairies on the 

 Missouri, M.Lewis. 2/. August, 

 September, v. s. in Herb. Lewis 



™ Caprifolium ciliosum Pursh. 



21 Lonicera ciliosa Poir. 



"On the Kooskooskee, June 5, 1806" A flowerless branch. Pursh says: 

 " on the banks of the Kooskooskee, M. Lewis, June ; flowers of a deep yel- 

 low." In the Journal, reference is made to " the honeysuckle first found on 

 the Kooskooskee, near the Chopunnish Nation, and again below the Grand 

 Rapids," as among the plants of the Pacific coast. 



22 Achillea Millefolium L. 



'' Camp on the Kooskooskee, May 20, 1806." Described by Pursh as, A. 

 tomentosa Willd, " on the banks of the Kooskooskee, M. Lewis, June; flowers 

 yellow." The specimens were evidently white, but turned yellow in drying. 

 Pursh, Fl. II, 563, not 319, as quoted in Gray's Synoptical Flora. 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



31 



Aplopappus sp. 



On the Columbia, October, 

 1805. 



Artemisia cana Pursk. 



No. 55. October 2, 1804. 

 Growth of the high bluffs. 



Artemisia cana Pursh. 



On the bluffs, October 2, 1801. 



Artemisia cana Pursh. 



Ou the bluffs, October 1, 1804. 

 No. 60. 1804, October 1st. 

 Another variety of wild sage 

 growth of high and bottom prai- 

 ries. 



Artemisia dracunculoides Pursh. 



No. 52. September 15, 1804. 

 Growth of the open plains. On 

 the bluffs, September 15, 1804. 

 [Good specimen]. 



Artemisia frigida Willd. 



No. 41 found on the bluffs the 

 2d of September, 1804, is the 

 growth of open high situations. 

 On the bluffs, September 2, 1804. 

 [Good specimen]. 



Artemisia frigida Willd. 



No. 51. 1804, October 3d. 

 Radix perennial ; 3 to 8 stalks 

 as high as the specimen ; growth 

 of the high sides of the bluffs. 



Artemisia longifolia Nutt. 



Wild sage on the bluffs, Octo- 

 ber 1,1804. No. 53. October 3d. 

 Flavor like the camomile, radix 

 perennial ; growth of the high 

 bluffs. 



Pursh, FL 521. On the Mis- 

 souri, M.Lewis. 2/. September, 

 November, v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 



Pursh, Fl. 1. c. 

 Pursh, Fl. 1. c. 



A.Dracunculus Pursh (not L.) r 

 Fl. 521. On the Missouri, M. 

 Lewis. % . August, October, v. 

 s. in Herb. Lewis. 



Pursh, Fl. 521. On the plains 

 of the Missouri, M.Lewis. %. 

 October, November, v. s. in 

 Herb. Lewis. 



Pursh, Fl. 1. c. 



A. integri folia Pursh (not 

 Willd.), Fl/520. On the cliffs 

 and dry savannahs of the Mis- 

 souri, M. Lewis. % . October, v. 

 s. in Herb. Lewis. About three 

 feet high. 




32 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



Artemisia Ludoviciana Nutt. ? 



Artemisia species. Columbia 

 River, April 10, 1806. Artemisia. 

 Rockford Camp. 



Asl^r oblongifolius Nutt. 



Big bend of the Missouri, Sep- 

 tember 21, 1804. 



Aster Oreganus Nutt. 



On Lewis River, October, 

 1805. 



Balsamorrhiza sagittata Nutt. 



Rocky Mountains, dry bills, 

 July 7, 1806. 



Balsamorrhiza sagittata Nutt. 



The stem is eaten by the na- 

 tives without any preparation. 

 On the Columbia, April 14, 1806. 



[Bidens-like composite, too 

 poor to identify]. On Lewis's 

 River, October, 1805. 



Bigelowia graveolens Gray. 



A low shrub growing in the 

 rocky, dry hills on the Koos- 

 kooskee. May 6, 1806. 



Bigelowia graveolens Gray. 



No. 54, Oct. 2. Grows from 

 18 inches to 2 h feet, many stalks 

 from the same root, from which 

 they issue near the ground ; the 

 radix perennial. The goat or 

 antelope feed on it in the winter, 

 it is the growth of the high bluffs. 

 High bluffs; goats feed upon; 

 18 inches high. Oct. 2, 1804. 



Buphthalmum sag ittatum 

 Pursh, Fl. 564. On dry barren 

 hills in the Rockv Mountains, 

 M. Lewis. % . June, July, v. s. 

 in Herb. Lewis. The natives eat 

 the young stems as they spring 

 up, raw. 



Buphthalmum sag ittatum 

 Pursh, 1. c. 



Chrysocoma dracunculoides 

 Pursh (not Lam.), Fl. 517. On 

 high cliffs on the banks of the 

 Missouri. M. Lewis. % . Oct. 

 v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



33 



Bigelowia graveolens var. albioaulis 

 Gray. 



15 Oct. 1805, on the Colum- 

 bia River. 



Cnicus edulis Gray. 



Carduus or Thistle-Roots, eat- 

 able. Fort Clatsop, March 13, 

 1806. 23 



Eriophyllum caespitosum Dougl. 



On the uplauds on the Koos- 

 kooskee River. June 6, 1806. 



Gaillardia aristata Pursh. 



Rocky Mountains, dry hills. 

 July 7, 1806. 



Grindelia squarrosa Dunal. 



No. 40, taken on the 17th of 

 August, 1804, at our camp near 

 the old Maha village, and is the 

 growth of the prairies. Anony- 

 mous balsamifera, new genus, 

 Prairies; in the camp near the 

 old Maha village. Aug. 17, 1804. 

 [Good specimen]. 



Chrysocoma nauseosa Pall, in 

 herb. Pursh, PI. 517. On the 

 banks of the Missouri. M. Lewis. 

 % . Oct. v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 



Actinella lanata Pursh, Fl. 560. 

 On the high lands of the Koos- 

 kooskee. M. Lewis. % . June, 

 July, v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 24 



Pursh, Fl. 573. On dry hills 

 on the Rocky Mountains. M. 

 Lewis. $ . v.s. in Herb. Lewis. 



Donia squarrosa Pursh, Fl. 

 559. In open prairies on the 

 banks of the Missouri. M. Lewis. 

 % . Aug., Sept., v. s. in Herb. 

 Lewis ; v. v. cult. 



23 Cnicus edulis Gray. 



Only a single leaf, overlooked by Pursh. " Leaves of a thistle ; roots edi- 

 ble. Fort Clatsop, March 13, 1806. The Journal of January 20th says: 

 " The root is the part used. It is nine to fifteen inches long — the size of a 

 man's thumb, perpendicular, fusiform; when first taken from the earth, the 

 root is white, and nearly as crisp as a carrot. In this state it is sometimes 

 eaten without any preparation, but after it is prepared after the same process 

 used for the pashemo-quamash, which is the most usual and best method, it 

 becomes black, but is much improved in flavor. Its taste is exactly that of 

 sugar, and it is indeed the sweetest vegetable employed by the Indians." 

 2i Eriophyllum cccspitosiun Douglas 



Described by Pursh as Actinella lanata, II, 56", "on the uplands on the 

 Kooskooskee, Jwne 6 1806." Pursh says : "on the highlands of the Kooskoos- 

 kee, M. Lewis, June and July." It resembles in habit Pursh's Actinea. A 

 mate to this specimen is in the herbarium of the Academy as " Actinea lanata." 

 From a number of specimens from different localities, those of Lewis differ in 

 having the flower stalks thicken upwardly. 




34 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



Gutierrezia Euthamiae Torr. & Gray. 



No. 32. Specimens of aro- 

 matic plants on which the ante- 

 lope feeds; these were obtained 

 21st of Sept. 1805, at the upper 

 part of the big bend of the Mis- 

 souri. Upper part of the big 

 bend of the Missouri, Sept. 21, 

 1804. 



Gutierrezia Euthamiae Torr. & Gray. 

 No. 59, 1804, 19th September, 

 the growth of high and bare prai- 

 ries which produced little grass, 

 generally mineral earth. High, 

 bare prairies, mineral earth, with 

 very little grass. Sept. 19, 1804. 



Liatris pycnostachya Michx. 



No. 35, Sept. 15th growth of 

 the prairies. Prairies, Sept. 15, 

 1804. 



Liatris soariosa Willd. 



No. 53, 1 2th September, growth 

 of high and dry prairies. High 

 and dry prairies. Sept. 12, 1804. 



Matricaria discoidea D C. 



An agreeable smell. On the 

 Kooskooskee, June 9, 1806. 



Mioroseris macrochaeta Gray. 



Rock Camp. April 17, 1806. 



Solidago rigida L. 



High dry prairies. Sept. 13, 

 1804. 



[Composite? Poor, sterile and 

 not placed; leaves opposite, much 

 divided into narrow segments, 

 very pubescent]. One of the 



Solidago Sarothrce Pursh, Fl. 

 540. On the plains of the Mis- 

 souri. M.Lewis. %. Sept. v. 

 s. in Herb. Lewis. 



Solidago Sarothrce Pursh, Fl. 



[Lewis' specimen not men- 

 tioned by Pursh]. 



Santolina suaveolens Pursh, Fl. 

 520. On the banks of the Koos- 

 kooskee. M. Lewis. ©. June- 

 Aug. v. v. ; v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



most common plants of the plains 

 of Columbia. May 27, 1806. 



Arctostaphylos Uva-ursi Spreng. Arbutus Uva-ursi Pursh (not 



No. 33. An evergreen plant Willd.), Fl. 283. On the plains 

 which grows on the open plains, of the Mississippi ; the Indians 

 usually; the natives smoke its smoke the leaves under the name 

 leaves mixed with tobacco; called of Sacacommis,and considerthem 

 by the French Engages (?) saca- of great medicinal virtue. 25 

 commis ; obtained at Fort Man- 

 dan. Fort Mandan, open plains. 

 Evergreen called Sacacommis, 

 natives smoke its leaves. 



Pursh, Fl. 282 [but does not 



Arbutus Menziesii Pursh. 



A middle-sized tree with a re- mention Lewis' specimen], 

 markable smooth bark, which 

 scales off in the manner of the 

 birch, and red berries in clusters. 

 Columbia River, Nov. 1, 1805. 



Gaultheria Shallon Pursh. Pursh. Fl. 283. On the falls 

 The shallon, supposed to be a of Columbia and near the west- 

 species of Vaccinium. On the ern ocean. M. Lewis. \ . May, 

 coast of the Pacific Ocean. June June, v. s. in Herb. Lewis nee 

 20, 1806. non Banks. 26 



25 Arctostaphylos Uva-ursi Sprengel. 



" An evergreen plant which grows in the open plains usually ; the natives 

 smoke its leaves mixed with tobacco. It is called by the French Engagees 

 sacacommis, obtained at Fort Mandan." Pursh, Fl. I. 283, says : "on the 

 plains of the Mississippi the Indians smoke the leaves under the name of 

 sacacommis, and consider them of great medicinal value," but does not credit 

 Lewis. It is not clear whom he refers to as " Engages," but the name may 

 have been given by the French and not by the Indians. The Journal speaks 

 of a plant " known by the traders as sacacotnmis." 1 Professor Knowlton in 

 the notes to Coues' edition of the travels, suggests the Arctostaphylos pungens 

 for this, but Lewis' label as above, settles the question. The Journal further 

 says : " The natives eat the berries without any preparation. They are some- 

 times gathered and hung in the lodges in bags." 



26 Gaultheria Shallon Pursh. 



Described and figured by Pursh, I, 284. " The shallon, supposed to be a 

 species of Vaccinium, on the coast of the Pacific Ocean, January 10. 1806 ;" 

 leaves and branches only. Pursh says : '' on the Falls of the Columbia and 

 near the western Ocean, M. Lewis." He further notes that he described 

 from the more perfect specimens of Menzies. The Journal says : " Shallum 

 is a favorite food of the elk It has a dark purple berry of pleasant flavor. 

 The natives eat the berry when ripe, but seldom collect it in quantities to dry 

 for winter use." It is generally known in these times as the Salal berry. 




36 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



Vaccinium Myrtillus L. 



New species. With a purple, 

 small berry, eatable — an ever- 

 green. Fort Clatsop, June 20, 

 1806. 27 



Vaccinium ovatum Pursh. 



A shrub of 7 or 8 feet high, 

 supposed to be a species of Vac- 

 cinium ; the berries are eaten by 

 the natives On the Pacific 

 Ocean. Fort Clatsop, June 27, 

 1806. 



Dodecatheon Meadia L. 



Near the narrows of the Co- 

 lumbia River. April 16, 1806. 29 



Frasera thyrsiflora Hook. 



In moist wet places, on the 

 Squamash flats. June 14, 1806. 

 [Leaf only]. 



Collomia linearis Nutt. 



Rockford Camp. April 17, 

 1806. 



Pursh, Fl. 290. 

 lumbia River. M. 

 May. 28 



On the Co- 

 Lewis. b_ . 



Swertia fastigiata Pursh, Fl. 

 101. On the Missouri Flats near 

 the Rocky Mountains. M. Lewis. 

 11. Julv, v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 



27 Vaccinium myrtilloides L. 



This specimen is not in flower or fruit, but is so nearly a fac-simile of 

 some forms of Gaultheria Myrsinites, which Pursh's Vaccinium obtusum has been 

 supposed to be, that it is in all probability the type of V. obtusum, Fl., p. 290, 

 though the description refers only to a specimen collected by Menzies. 



28 Vaccinium ovatum Pursh. 



'' A shrub 7 or 8 feet high, supposed to be a species of Vaccinium. The 

 berries are eaten by the natives. On the Pacific Ocean. Fort Clatsop, June 

 27, 1806." Pursh simply says I, p. 290, " on the Columbia Eiver, M. Lewis." 

 The Journal notes among the berry plants esteemed by the natives " a species 

 of huckleberry," and. referring to the huckleberry, "there are two species of 

 shrubs, first seen at the Grand Rapids of the Columbia, and since seen else- 

 where. They grow in rich, dry ground." The Columbia River specimen 

 not now in the collection was probably the one from which the description 

 was made. 



29 Dodecatheon Meadia L. 



4< Near the narrows of the Columbia River, April 16, 1806." Pursh over- 

 looks this ; it was probably the first finding of it so far west. There might 

 have been a specimen collected on the march up the Missouri in 1804. as in 

 the Journal under date April 17th, it is noted that " violets, doves foot and 

 cowslips are in bloom *' the Dudecatheon being probably referred to as cow- 

 slips. If to the return from the Pacific, April 9, 1806, when they found ''cow- 

 slips" again in bloom, would refer to the Columbia specimen. 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



37 



Gilia aggregata Spreng. 



On Hungry Creek, June 26, 

 1806. [Flowering stem]. 



Polemonium caeruleum L. 



Headwaters of the Kooskoos- 

 kee. June 27, 1806. 



Phacelia circinata Jacq. 



Root fibrous, plant from 3-4 

 feet high ; dry situation. On the 

 Kooskooskee, June 9, 1806. 

 [Poor specimen], 



Phacelia Menziesii Torr. ! 



Rocky Camp. April 17, 1806. 



Cantua aggregata Pursh, Fl. 

 147. Ou the banks of the Mis- 

 sissippi. M.Lewis. $. June, v. 

 s .in Herb. Lewis. 



Plagiobothrys tenellus Gray. 



Rocky Camp. April 17,1806. 

 Krynitskia sp. ? 



Rocky Camp. April 17,1806. 

 Nicotiana quadrivalvis Pursh. 



No. 45. Specimen of the Ri- 

 cara's tobacco, taken 12th of Oc- 

 tober, 1804. 12th of October, at 

 the Ricara's town. This is the 

 tobacco which they cultivate. 



Phacelia heterophylla Pursh, 

 Fl. 140. On dry hills on the 

 banks of the Kooskooskee. M. 

 Lewis. $ . June, July, v. s. in 

 Herb. Lewis. 30 . 



Hyilrophyllum lineare Pursh, 

 Fl. 134. On the banks of the 

 Missouri. M. Lewis. %. April, 

 v. s. in Herb. Lewis. [Specimen 

 in Hb. Philnda. Acad, showing 

 flowers and leaves, root annual, 

 not perennial.] 



Pursh, Fl. 141. Cultivated 

 and spontaneous on the Missouri, 

 principally among the Mandan 

 and Ricara nations. O. July, v. 

 v. ; v. s. in Herb. Lewis nee non 

 Nuttall. The tobacco prepared 

 from it is excellent. The most 

 delicate tobacco is prepared by 

 the Indians from the dried flow- 

 ers. 



30 Phacelia circinata Jacq. t". 



Described by .Pursh Fl., I, 140, as Phacelia heterophylla . " On the Koos- 

 kooskee, August 9, 1806 ; root fibrous, plant3 to 4 feet high ; dry situations." 

 Pursh says: "on dry hills on the banks of the Kooskooskee, July, August." 

 Only a few leaves and a portion of the flower branch have escaped the rava 

 ges of the beetles. The specimen from which Pursh took his description, 

 evidently, is in the herbarium of the Academy of Natural Sciences, under the 

 provisional name of Phacelia scabiosarfolia. 




38 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



Collinsia parviflora Dougl. 



Rockford Camp. April 17, 

 1806. [From size of corolla ap- 

 parently C. parviflora rather than 

 C. violacea as placed by Gray, 

 yet identity is not certain]. 



Mimulus luteus L. 



On the waters of Clark's River, 

 July 4,1806. [Indifferent speci- 

 mens but showing stem, leaves 

 and flowers ; upper portion of the 

 plant is not glabrous as described 

 by Pursh, 1. c, but finely and 

 densely glandular-puberulent. 



Orthocarpus tenuifolius Benth. 



Valley of Clark's River, July 

 1, 1806. [A. good specimen, 

 showing, the root to be distinct- 

 ly annual, not perennial, as de- 

 scribed. The color of the flow- 

 ers is not shown.] 



Pedicularis Groenlandica Retz. 



On the low plains on the heath 

 of Clark's River, July 6, 1806. 



P. uncinata Willd. 



[Pursh named this P. uncinata 

 Willd., (Siberian)on his label, but 

 evidently discovered his error be- 

 fore publication, as in his Flora 

 he gives P. Groznlandica~\. 



Pedicularis scopulorum Gray. ? 



On the low plains on the heath 

 of Clark's River. July 6, 1806. 



Antirrhinum tenellum Pursh, 

 Fl. 421. On the banks of the 

 Missouri. M. Lewis. ©. July, 

 v. v. ; v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 



Pursh, Fl. 426. On the banks 

 of Clark's River. M. Lewis. On 

 the northwest coast, Pallas. %. 

 July, Aug., v. s. in Herb. Lewis, 

 nee non Lambert. 



Bartsia tenuifolia Pursh, Fl. 

 429. On the banks of Clark's 

 River. M. Lewis. 11 . July, v. s. 

 in Herb. Lewis. 



Pursh, Fl. 426. In low plains 

 of the Columbia. M.Lewis. %. 

 July, v. s. in Herb. Lewis nee 

 non Lambert. 



P. elata Pursh (not Willd.), 

 Fl. 425. In the low plains, on 

 the waters of Clark's River. M. 

 Lewis. 11. July, v. s. in Herb. 

 Lewis. , 



[P. elata Pursh, not Willd., has 

 been doubtfully referred to P. 

 bracteosa Benth., but it is cer- 

 tainly different. It has purple 




1899.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



39 



Pentstemon diffusus Dougl. 



Camp on the Kooskooskee, 

 May 20, 1806. 



Synthyris reniformis var. major 

 Hook. 



On Hungry Creek, June 26, 



1806. [Does not well agree with 



Veronica reniformis Pursh (ex. 



char.), Fl. 10, for that is said to 



have a creeping stem, opposite 



leaves and alternate peduncles, 



and to have been collected in 



boggy soil on the banks of the 



Missouri.] 



Salvia lanceolata Willd. 



Big bend of Missouri, Sept. 21, 

 1804. [Good specimen]. 



Scutellaria angustifolia Pursh. 



On the Kooskooskee, June 5, 

 1806. 



Oxybaphus nyctagineus Sweet. 



Open plains, Sept. 1, 1804. 

 [Fairly complete.] 



Atriplex canescens James. 



Sept. 21. Big bend of the 

 Missouri, Sept. 21, 1804. 



Atriplex Nuttallii Wats. 



A half shrub from the high 

 plains of Missouri, July 20, 1806. 



flowers as described, but the calyx 

 is not glabrous but pubescent. 

 In all characters shown it agrees 

 well with P. scopulorum Gray, 

 notwithstanding difference in dis- 

 tribution and altitude.] 



S. trichostemmoides Pursh, Fl. 

 19. In open plains on the Mis- 

 souri River. M.Lewis. O. v. s. 

 in Herb. Lewis. 



Pursh, Fl. 412. On the river 

 Kooskooskee. M. Lewis. % , June, 

 v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 



Allionia ovata Pursh, Fl. 97. 

 On the plains of the Missouri. 

 M. Lewis. ©. Aug. v. s. in Herb. 

 Lewis. 



Calligonam canescens Pursh, 

 Fl. 370. In the plains of the 

 Missouri, near the big bend, k ■ 

 July, Aug. v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 




40 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



Sarcobatus maculatus Ton-. 



A small branchy shrub from 

 the plains of Missouri, July 20, 

 1806. 



Polygonum bistortioides Pursh. 



Polygonum near to bistorte. 

 In moist grounds on Quamash 

 flats, June 12, 1806. [Leaves 

 and inflorescence]. 



Elaeagnus argentea Pursb. 



Silver tree of the Missouri. 

 From the prairie of the Knobs. 

 July 6, 1806. 



Shepherdia argentea Nutt. 



A. No. 39. Obtained at the 

 mouth of the river Quicourre 

 from which place upwards it is 

 abundant; in the Missouri bot- 

 toms it is a pleasant twig to eat. 

 It has much the flavor of the 

 cranberry, and continues on the 

 bush through the winter. This is 

 an evergreen shrub ; some plants 

 are sent down by the barge to 

 the care of Capt. Stoddard at St. 

 Louis. From the mouth of the 

 river Quicourre and from there 

 upwards in all the Missouri bot- 

 toms. The berry pleasant, acid 

 like cranberry, and hang on all 

 winter ; evergreen. 



Euphorbia heterophylla L. 



No. 38. 1804, Oct. 4. The 

 growth of the high prairies or 

 plains. High prairies and plains. 

 Oct. 4, 1801. 



Euphorbia marginata Pursh. 



On the Yellowstone River, 

 July 28, 1806. 



Pursh, Fl. 271. In low 

 grounds on the banks of the 

 Missouri, called Quamash-flats. 

 M. Lewis. %. June, v.s. 



Pursh, Fl. 114. In the ex- 

 tensive plains on the banks of the 

 Missouri. M. Lewis and T. Nut- 

 tall. \ . July, v. s. in Herb. 

 Lewis. Missouri silver tree. 



Hippophce argentea Pursh, Fl. 

 115. On the banks of the Mis- 

 souri. M. Lewis. \ v. s. in Herb. 

 Lewis. 



E. cyathophora Pursh (not 



Willd.), Fl. 605. On the banks 



of the Mississippi, b • ©• June, 

 July, v.v. 



Pursh, Fl. 607. On the Yel- 

 lowstone River. M. Lewis. ©. 

 July, v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



Madura aurantiaoa Nutt. 



[No label. Sterile specimen.] 



Betula ! 



Black alder of the Pacific 

 Ocean ; grows to a large size. 

 March 26, 1806. [Specimens 

 consist only of fragmentary ster- 

 ile catkins.] 31 

 (Juercus Garryana Dougl. 



A sort of White Oak. Colum- 

 bia, March 26, 1806. 



Quercus macrocarpa Michx. 



No. 34. The leaf of oak which 

 is common to the prairies. 5th 

 Sept., 1804. Common to the 

 prairies, Sept. 5, 1804. 



32 



81 Alnus rubra Bongard. 



'' Black Alder of the Pacific Ocean, grows to a large size : March 26, 1806.' r 

 The leaves and catkins have been wholly destroyed, except a portion of one 

 male anient and the naked branch. But there is little doubt of the accuracy 

 of the determination. The Journal says of it : " The Black Alder arrives to 

 a great size It is simple branching and diffuse — the bark is smooth and of a 

 light color, with white spreading shoots resembling those of the beech, the' 

 leaf and fructification resemble precisely the common alder of our country. 

 The shrubs grow separately from different roots, not in clusters like those of 

 the United States. The Black Alder does not cast its leaves till December 

 1st. It is sometimes growing to the height of 60 or 70 feet, and from two to 

 four feet in diameter.'' 

 32 Quercus macrocarpa var. depressa Engel. 



"The leaf of oak, which is common to the prairies, September 5, 1804." 

 The Journal says : ' September 5th, when 4.} miles from White Point Creek, 

 the Rapid River (now Niobrara) a beautiful plain on the upper side where 

 the Pawnees once had a village, we camped just above it (now in South 

 Dakota in the Pinca Reservation). The place where we halted is a fine low 

 ground with much timber, such as Red Cedar, Honey Locust, Oak, Arrow- 

 head, Elm and Coffee Nut." On September loth is again recorded, "our 

 camp is in a beautiful plain (opposite what is now Brule City) with timber 

 scattered thinly for | mile, consisting chiefly of Elm, Cottonwood, some Ash 

 of indifferent quality, and a considerable quantity of a species of White Oak. 

 This tree seldom rises higher than 30 feet, and branches very much. The 

 bark is thick and of a light color. The leaves are small, deeply indented and 

 of a light green. The cup which contains the acorn is fringed on the edges, 

 and embraces it about one half. The acorn itself, which grows in great pro- 

 fusion, is of excellent flavor, and has none of the roughness which most acorns 

 possess These acorns are now falling, and have probably attracted the large 

 number of deer which we saw in this place, as all the animals we have seen 

 are fond of that food." The travellers were not botanists, but a specialist 

 could not have drawn a better description of Quercus macrocarpa var. depressa^ 

 The specimen in the collection has come through in excellent condition. 



4 




42 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



Populus monilifera Ait. 



Cotton tree of the Mississippi 

 and Missouri. Aug., 1806. 



Populus trichocarpa Torr. & Gray. 



Cotton tree of the Columbia 

 River. June, 1806. 



P. angulata Pursh(not Willd.), 

 Fl. 619. It is known by the 

 name of Mississippi Cotton Tree. 

 [Lewis'specimen not mentioned.] 



Calypso borealis Salisb. Pursh, Fl. 593. On the Col- 



Waters of Hungry Creek, umbia River. M. Lewis. %. 

 Rocky Mountains. Junel6,1806. May, June, v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 



Iris Missouriensis Nutt. 



[So far as fragmentary speci- 

 men shows.] A pale blue spe- 

 cies of Flag. Prairie of the 

 Knobs, July 5, 1806. 



Allium, sp. 



On the waters of the Koos- 

 kooskee, Apr. 30, 1806. [Very 

 poor sterile specimen.] 3 



133 



Iris SibiricaPursh (not Willd.), 

 Fl. 30. On the banks of the Mis- 

 souri. M.Lewis. 11. July, v. v. ; 

 v.s. in Herb. Lewis. 



[Perhaps a part of] A. angu- 

 losum Willd. of Pursh, Fl. 223. 

 On the banks of the Missouri. 

 M. Lewis and Nuttall. 2/. July, 

 v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 



Brodisea Douglasii Wats. £ # grandiflora Pursh (not 



Hyacinth of the Columbia Smith), Fl. 223. On the plains 



plains, Apr. 20, 1806. [Good spe- of the Columbia and Missouri 



cimen. Watson's synon. wrong, Rivers. M. Lewis. % . Apr., May, 



Proc. Am. Acad, xiv, 238. v. v. 34 

 Where Pursh's grandiflora is 

 placed under laeta~\. 



33 Allium sp. 



Pursh describes Allium angulosum I, p. 223, as '• on the banks of the Mis- 

 souri, M. Lewis, July" The specimen in this collection is so eaten that 

 neither flowers nor roots are left. As these remains are ticketed " on the 

 waters of the Kooskooskee, April 30, 1806," it is probably of another species 

 overlooked by Pursh, and not angulosum. So far as the leaves indicate, it 

 may be A. reliculatum. 



34 Described by Pur^h as Brodicea grandiflora Fl. I, p. 223. " Hyacinth of 

 Colorado Plains, April 20, 1806." Pursh says : " on the plains of the Colum- 

 bia and Missouri Rivers, M. Lewis, April and May. This elegant bulbous 

 plant was called by M. Lewis rightly, Missouri Hyacinth." In the Journal of 

 the expedition it is noted under date of April 16th, then at Rockfort camp, 

 " a species of Hyacinth, a native of this place, bloomed to-day. It was not in 

 bloom yesterday." 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



43 



Calochortus elegans Pursh. 



A small bulb of a pleasant 

 flavor ; eat by tbe natives. On 

 the Kooskooskee, May 17, 1806. 

 [Small specimen, 1 leaf and 1 

 flower. Specimen depauperate 

 in manner of var. nanus, Wood, 

 but petals obtusisli aud not cili- 

 ate.] 



Camassia esculenta Lindl. 



Near the foot of the Rocky 

 Mountains on the Quamash flats. 

 June 23, 1806. [Good specimen]. 



Erythronium grandiflorum Pursh. 



A squamose bulb. On the 

 waters of the Kooskooskee, June 

 5, 1806. [Indifferent specimen 

 with one good flower and a poor 

 leaf] 



Erythronium grandiflorum var. parvi- 

 florum Wats. 



From the plains of the Col- 

 umbia near Kooskooskee River, 

 May 8, 1806. The natives reck- 

 on the root unfit for food. [Three 

 flowers and one leaf bearingstem. 

 Probably the Missouri River 

 specimen of E.laneeolatum Pursh, 

 Fl. 230.] 



Pursh, Fl. 240. On the head- 

 waters of the Kooskooskee. M. 

 Lewis. % . May, v. s. in Herb. 

 Lewis. The roots are eaten by 

 the natives. 



Phalanglum Quamash Pursh, 

 Fl. 226. On the upper part of 

 the Missouri, near the Rocky 

 Mountains. M. Lewis. 2/ . June 

 v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 



35 



Pursh, Fl. 231. On the Koos- 

 kooskee. M. Lewis. 11 ; May 

 June, v.s. 



13 Pursh says: "on the Upper Missouri near the Rocky Mountains, M. 

 Lewis, June. The plant is known among the natives as Quamash, and the 

 bulbs are carefully collected by them and baked between hot stones, when 

 they assume the appearance of baked pears, and are of an agreeable sweet 

 taste ; they form a great part of their winter stores. Though an agreeable 

 food to Captain Lewis' party, they occasion baneful complaints if eaten in 

 quantity." Under June 29, 1806, the Journal says : " the Quamash and 

 strawberries are just beginning to bloom at the flats at the head of the Koos- 

 kooskee." 




44 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



Fritillaria lanceolata Pursh. 



Specimen of a liliaceous plant 

 obtained on Brant Island, 10th 

 of April, 1806, the root of this 

 plant is a squamous bulb and is 

 eaten by the natives. The Clak- 

 clel-lar, opposite this island, call 

 it Tel-lak-thil-pah. [Complete 

 specimen]. 



Fritillaria pudica Spreng. 



Plains of Columbia near the 

 Kooskooskee, May 8, 1806. The 

 bulb in the shape of a biscuit 

 which the natives eat. [Com- 

 plete specimen corresponding 

 with Pursh's figure]. 



Trillium ovatum Pursh. 



Columbia River near the rap- 

 ids, April 10, 1806. [Upper por- 

 tion of plant]. 



Trillium petiolatum Pursh. 



Folium. The flowers brown 

 with a fruit of brick-red. On the 

 waters of the Kooskooskee. June 

 15, 1806. [Excellent specimen]. 



Veratrum viride Ait. or V. Californi- 

 cum Dur. 



A plant growing in wet places 

 with a single stem and leaves 

 clasping round one another, no 

 flowers observed. On the Koos- 

 kooskee, June_25, 1806. [Single 

 leaf only.] 



Xerophyllum tenax Nutt. 



The leaves are made use of by 

 the natives to make baskets and 

 other ornaments. On high land, 

 Rocky Mountains, June 15, 1806. 



Pursh, Fl. 230. On the head- 

 waters of the Missouri and Col- 

 umbia. M. Lewis. %. July, v. s. 



Lilium f pudimm Pursh, Fl. 

 228, t. 8. On the headwaters of 

 the Missouri. M. Lewis. 2/ . May, 

 v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 



Pursh, Fl. 245. On the rap- 

 ids of the Columbia River. M. 

 Lewis. % . April, v. s. 



Pursh, Fl. 244. On the waters 

 of the Kooskooskee. M. Lewis. 

 %. June, v. s. 



Helonias tenax Pursh, Fl. 243. 

 On high lands near the Rocky 

 Mountains. M. Lewis. % . June, 



v. s. 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



45 



Zygadenus elegans Pursh. 



On the Cokalaishkit River, 

 July 7, 1806. 



Aira brevifolia Pursh. 



The most common grass 

 through the plains of Columbia 

 and near the Kooskooskee River, 

 June 10, 1806. Poa trivialis L., 

 var. [Fair specimen]. 



Hordeum jubatum L. 



Called the golden or silken 

 rye. On the White Bear Islands 

 on the Missouri, July 12, 1806. 



Hordeum jubatum L. 



Grass common to the open 

 grounds near Fort Clatsop. 

 March 13, 1806. 



Festuca ovina L. var. 



On the plains of Columbia. 

 June 10, 1806. 



Agropyron divergens Nees. 



On the plains of the Columbia, 

 June 10, 1806. (Determined by 

 Prof. Scribner). 



Koeleria cristata Pers. 



On the plains of the Columbia, 

 etc., June 10, 1806. 



Stipa spartea Trin. 



Valleys of the Missouri on the 

 Rocky Mountain, July 8, 1806. 

 {Stipa comata Trin. according to 

 Prof. Scribner). 



Pursh, Fl. 241. On the waters 

 of the Cokalaishkit River, near 

 the Rocky Mountains. M. Lewis. 

 % • July, v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 



Pursh, F1.76. In the plains of 

 the Missouri. M. Lewis. % . 

 June, July, v. s. iti Herb. Lewis. 

 This grass is the most common in 

 those plains. 36 



Pursh, Fl. 89. On the islands 

 of the Missouri River. M. Lewis. 

 $ . July, v. s. in Herb. Lewis and 

 Lambert. 



Pursh, Fl. 1. c. 



Festuca duriuscula Pursh, Fl. 

 83? [but Lewis' specimen not 

 mentioned]. 



Festuca spicata Pursh, Fl. 83. 

 On the waters of the Missouri 

 and Columbia Rivers, June, v. s. 

 in Herb. Lewis. 



Pursh, Fl. 85. On the plains 

 of the Columbia River. M. Lew- 

 is. 11 . July, v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 



Stipa juncea Pursh, (not L.), 

 Fl. 72. On the banks of the Mis- 

 souri. M.Lewis. %. Aug. v.s. 

 in Herb. Lewis. 



38 This seems to be the plant described by Pursh as Aira brevifolia, as 

 worked out by both Dr. Robinson and myself. But Professor Scribner, whose 

 authority on grasses cannot be disputed, decides these specimens to be Poa 

 tenuifolia Nutt., P. Buckleyana Nash. 




46 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



Zizania aquatica L. 



No. 59. 8th September, the 

 growth of moist and very wet 

 prairies. 



[Sterile specimen of a coarse 

 grass. No label.] (Prof. Scrib- 

 ner writes probably Spartina 

 gracilis Trin.). 



Pinus ponderosa Dougl. 



On the Kooskooskee. On river 

 bottoms in rich land, west of the 

 mountains. Oct. 1, 1805. [Leaves 

 only]. 



Juniperus communis L. 



No. 47. A species of Juniper 

 common to the bluffs. Oct. 17. 

 Common to the bluffs. Oct. 17, 

 1804. 



Juniperus communis L. var. alpina 

 Gaud. 



Dwarf Juniper, Rocky Mount- 

 ains, July 7, 1806. 



Juniperus occidentalis Hook. 



No. 58. Found 2d Oct. 1804. 

 A species of cedar found on the 

 bluffs, the trees of which are 

 large, some of them 6 feet in the 

 girth. On the bluffs, some trees 

 6 feet in girth. Oct. 2, 1804. 



Juniperus Sabina var. fi m procumbens 

 Pursh. 



Dwarf cedar, never more than 

 6 inches high, open prairies. 

 Oct. 16, 1804. [Small sterile spe- 

 cimen]. 



Juniperus communis L. var. 

 depressa Pursh, Fl. 646. [Lewis' 

 specimen not mentioned]. 



Juniperus excelsa Pursh (not 



Marshall von Bieb.), Fl. 647. 



On the banks of the waters of 



the Rocky Mountains. M.Lewis. 



\ . May, v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 



Pursh, Fl. 647. Within the 

 Rocky Mountains. M. Lewis, h . 

 v. s. in Herb. Lewis. Not above 

 6 inches high. 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



47 



Equisetum arvense L. 



No. 31. Growth of the sand 

 bank near the banks of the river, 

 taken the 10th of Aug., 1804. 

 Sand banks of the Missouri. 

 Aug. 10, 1804. 

 Aspidium spinulosum Sw. 



Poly podium species. Fort Clat- 

 sop. June 20, 1806. 

 Lomaria Spicant Desv. 



Fort Clatsop, June 20, 1806. 



Hypnum Oreganum Sull. 



A species of moss from Fort 

 Clatsop. June 20, 1806. (Iden- 

 tified by Mrs. Britton). 



Bazzania trilobata (L.) S. F. Gray. 



A moss used by the natives as 

 a yellow dye ; grows on the pines 

 of the Rocky Mountains. July 

 1, 1806. (Identified by Mrs. 

 Britton). 



Egregia Menziesii (Turn.) Aresch. 

 (Phyllospora Menziesii). 



Fucus. From the mouth of 

 the Columbia River on the Pa- 

 cific Ocean, Nov. 17, 1805. 



[Loose label with Pyrvs sam- 

 bucifo Hits f but date different]. 

 No. 24. Found the 4th day of 

 Sept., 1805. A small growth 

 only, rising to the height of 15 

 feet. Moist situations it seems to 

 prefer; it is a handsome growth. 37 



Blechnum boreale Pursh (not 

 Willd.), Fl. 669. On the north- 

 west coast. M. Lewis. 11 . Aug. 

 v. s. in Herb. Lewis. 



87 Sorbus microcarpa Pursh. 



"On the tops of the highest peaks and mountains, June 27, 1806." Com- 

 pletely eaten by insects, except the stem, pedicels and 2 leaflets. A label in 

 the same sheet, in Captain Lewis' handwriting says, "found on the 4th day of 

 September, 1805. A small growth, only rising to the height of 15 feet ; moist 

 situations it seems to prefer. It is a handsome growth.'' 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



[Label only]. The root not 

 eaten by the natives. On the 

 Columbia, April 14, 1806. 



[Sterile and unidentified. 

 Stem lignescent, leaves opposite, 

 narrow, linear, fascicled in axils]. 

 A shrub about 4 feet high. On 

 the plains of the Columbia. 

 May 7, 1806. Identified while the 

 mss. was going through the press, 

 by Prof. Heller of the University 

 of Minnesota, as Phlox speciosa 

 Pursh. See Flora, P. 149. 



To the above detail by Dr. Robinson and Mr. Greenman, it 

 may now be noted that this collection contains specimens of 

 all but sixteen of Lewis's plants as described by Pursh in his 

 Flora. Of these sixteen, seven, as marked with an asterisk, are 

 represented already in the specimens from Lambert's herbarium, 

 leaving but nine of the plants missing from the collection as described 

 by Pursh. Only a few of these nine missing ones are of material 

 importance. For all practical purposes, all the plants of Lewis 

 and Clark's expedition are now deposited in the Academy. 



*Berberis Aquifolium Pursh. 

 *Berberis nervosa Pursh. 

 *Ceanothus sanguineus Pursh. 



Under the provisional name of " C. atropurpureus" 

 *Psoralea esculenta Pursh. 



In the Journal of the expedition, under date of August 10th, it 

 is noted " at the confluence of the Yellowstone with the Missouri, 

 Captain Clark found to day * * the men also dug up large 

 quantities of a large and very insipid root called by the Indians 

 Hankee, and by the ' engages ' ' white apple.' It is used by them 

 in a dry and powdered state, but our men boiled it and ate it with 

 their meat." 



On the same sheet with Psoralea esculenta Pursh has fastened down 

 a specimen of P. hypogoza Nutt., not noting its distinction. The ini- 

 tials of Professor Britton are under it with this correction : It was 

 evidently collected on the headwaters of the Platte, where Nuttall 

 subsequently found it. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



Spiraea capitata, Fl. 342. 



Described from a specimen of Menzies from the northwest coast, 

 but of which he had said " an imperfect specimen gathered on the 

 Columbia River" by Lewis is not in the collection, nor in the her- 

 barium of the Academy, but is referred by Hooker to Neillia 

 thyrsijiora, and frequently noted in the Journal of the explorers as 

 " one of the Nine barks." 



Jussiaea subacaulis. PL, p. 304. 



Torrey and Gray, and Hooker refer this to Oenothera heterantha 

 Nutt. A specimen in the collection of the Academy, simply 

 marked " from Pursh's herbarium," is J. repens. As Pursh was 

 evidently well acquainted with all our Jussiseas, it seems incredible 

 that he should have mistaken an Oenothera for one of this genus. 



Symphoricarpos racemosus Mx. 

 Menziesia empetriformis Pursh. 



No specimen here or in the herbarium of the Academy. Hooker 

 supposes it to have been Cassiope Stelleriana, but Lewis reports his 

 plant from the Rocky Mountains, and near the mouth of the Colum- 

 bia River. 



Menziesia ferruginea Sni. 



" On the Columbia River, Lewis." June says Pursh. 



®Erigeron compositus, Fl. 535. 

 Pentstemon frutescens Lamb., Fl. 428. 

 :; Gerardia fruticosa Pursh. 



In the herbarium of the Academy his specimen is marked " G. 

 suffruticosa n. sp.," and has been placed by Dr. Gray on the sheet 

 with Pentstemon Menziesii Hooker. 



Mimulus Lewisii Pursh, 427. 

 Bartsia Gymnandra Pursh, 430. 



Dr. Gray suggests that Pursh's description indicates Synthyris 

 rubra. 



*Diotis lanata, Fl. 602. 



Is in herbarium of the Academy under Eurotla lanata. 



Lilium umbellatum Fl., 229. 



Hooker (Index Kewensis) suggests this may have been L. Phil- 

 adelphicum. 



Pinus taxifolia Lamb. FL, 640. 

 Pseudo- Tsuga Douglasii. 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



NEW AND LITTLE-KNOWN BEES FROM WASHINGTON STATE. 

 BY T. D. A. COCKERELL. 



Halictus pacificus n. sp. 



9 . — Length 10 mm., black, with ochreous pubescence, inclining 

 to fulvous in very fresh examples, whitish in very faded ones; 

 second, third and fourth segments of abdomen with interrupted basal 

 bands, ochreous in color, of dense appressed hair, broad laterally, 

 tapering to a point mesad ; in very worn examples these bands are 

 practically obliterated. Head ordinary, cheeks unarmed, antennae 

 wholly dark, tegular reddish-piceous ; wings with more or less of a 

 yellowish tint, faintly dusky toward the apex ; subcostal nervure 

 black, other nervures, and stigma, honey color; enclosure of meta- 

 thorax semilunar, strongly radiately wrinkled, bounded by a tolerably 

 distinct rim; legs black, small joints of tarsi ferruginous; abdomen 

 with numerous very minute punctures, hair bands interrupted, apex 

 with pale fuscous hair. 



S . — Differs in the usual manner from the 9 . Apical portion of 

 clypeus yellow. Antennae long, flagellum, except the last two joints, 

 ferruginous beneath. Pubescence paler ; nervures darker ; anterior 

 tibia? in front, middle tibia? at apex, hind tibiae at both ends, and all 

 the tarsi, yellow. 



Hab. — Olympia, Wash., March 23 to July 9, numerous speci- 

 mens. (T. Kincaid). Also taken by Mr. Kincaid at Seattle, May 

 14th, on Rub us ursinus. 



The following table separates the females of various large Halicti 

 allied to pacificus : 



A. Enclosure of metathorax granular. 



a. Large, with a broad face lerouxii Lep. 



b. Smaller, with a narrower face coriaceus Sm. 



B. Enclosure of methathorax plicate. 



a. Wings clear, stigma piceous, tegulae testaceous, sisymbrii Ckll. 



b. Wings yellowish, stigma honey-color, rather larger species . 



pacificus Ckll. 

 The above four were all taken at Olympia. Three other species 

 are allied to coriaceus : 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



1. H. bardus Cr., known by the clear wings and fuscous nervures. 



2. H. politics Sm., from Mexico, with the face broader above, 

 wings strongly yellowish. 



3. H. forbesii Rob., having the clypeus less produced. 1 have 

 examined a great number of coriaceus from Wash., and various 

 specimens from New Mexico and Illinois, considered to be forbesii ; 

 also an Illinois coriaceus from Mr. Robertson. The result of this 

 study is that I believe all belong to one somewhat variable species. 

 The characters given by Robertson to separate the females seem not 

 to be constant, but I have not been able to compare the males. It 

 is to be remarked, however, that Robertson's description of the 

 metathoracic enclosure of forbesii, " bearing irregular radiating 

 ruga?, which reach the posterior margin," will hardly apply to what 

 I have (Tr. Am. Ent. Soc, 1897, p. 163) regarded as that species, 

 so it may be that the real forbesii is a valid species near -pacificus, 

 which I have not seen. In that case it will be separated from paci- 

 ficus by the continuous abdominal bands, which are whitish instead 

 of ochraceous. 



The following table separates some males which are more or less 

 similar to pacificus : 



A. Clypeus wholly dark sisymbrii. 



B. Clypeus partly yellow. 



a. Legs all dark, size small angustior. 



b. Legs partly yellow. 



i. Hind tibia? black except ends, enclosure of metathorax 



plicate pacificus. 



ii. Hind tibia? yellow with only a suffused dark patch. 



a. Size large, rlagellum all dark, enclosure of metathorax 

 irregularly wrinkled lerouxii. 



b. Size smaller, flagellum ferruginous beneath. 



1. Size larger, head and thorax black .... ligatus. 



2. Size smaller, head and thorax greenish . . fasciatus. 



Colletes pascoensis n. sp. 



$ . — Length 10 mm. or slightly over, black, with dull white 

 pubescence having only a faint yellow or ochreous tinge. Face and 

 thorax densely covered with long hair, cheeks with black hair, vertex 

 shining but well punctured ; clypeus shining, with large close sub- 

 lanceolate punctures ; distance between eye and base of mandible 

 short, the space twice as broad as long; mandibles dark; antenna? 

 wholly dark, reaching to tegula? ; mesothorax and scutellum shin- 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



ing, with large well-separated punctures; postscutellum rough and 

 dull ; base of metathorax pitted, shining, lateral faces tolerably 

 shiny; tegulaj piceous ; wings dull hyaline, noticeably pubescent, 

 nervures and stigma piceous ; stigma small, marginal cell appendi- 

 culate; legs black, first two joints of hind tarsus rather broad; 

 pubescence of femora yellowish-white, of tibia black, of tarsi black 

 without and pale reddish-brown within ; abdomen shining, strongly 

 but not very closely punctured, the hind-margins of the segments with 

 rather thin yellowish-white hair-bands, the surface of the first two 

 segments with long erect thin yellowish-white pubescence, that of 

 the remaining segments with shorter black pubescence. 



9 . — Much like that of armata in general appearance, but the 

 pubescence of the head, pleura and legs is entirely black, contrasting 

 with that of the thoracic dorsum, which is yellowish-white, not at all 

 mixed with black. The abdomen has no bands, but is thinly clothed 

 with rather short and inconspicuous hair, yellowish-white on the 

 first segment, black on all the rest. The first segment has its lateral 

 hind margins narrowly fringed with short dense white hair ; the 

 punctures on the second segment are of two sizes, large and small. 

 Antenna? dark, the flagellum with only the faintest chocolate tinge 

 beneath, first joint of flagellum not quite as long as the second and 

 third together. The second recurrent nervure is less bent than 

 usual in the genus. 



Hab.—V-^co, Wash., 3 ? , 4 $ , May 25, 1896 (T. Kincaid). The 

 females might be mistaken for some Andrena allied to vicina. C. 

 pascoensis approaches nearest to the descriptions of C. californica and 

 C. consors. From consors Cress., it differs in the pallid pubescence 

 and the black hair as described ; this relates to the $ , the 9 of 

 consors being unknown. From californica Prov., it differs by the 

 entirely black hair of the head and legs in the 9 . It may be added, 

 that pascoensis is also decidedly larger than consors or californica. 



Colletes kincaidii n. sp. 



9 . — Length aboutl3 mm., black, with clear fulvous pubescenceon 

 head and thorax, tolerably dense, nowhere mixed with black, becom- 

 ing whitish on the ventral surface. Head rather broad, vertex with 

 irregularly-placed punctures of various sizes, clypeus with the 

 punctures running into strise, labrum with conspicuous grooves 

 alternating with ridges, mandibles dark, space between eye and 

 base of mandible broader than long, antennae very short, wholly 

 black ; prothoracic spire short, hidden by the pubescence ; meso- 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



thorax with very large and close punctures, except a large area in 

 the middle, which is shining and impunctate; scutellum with large 

 punctures, except the anterior border, which is impunctate; post- 

 scutellum roughened ; basal enclosure of metathorax bounded by a 

 distinct rim, shining, with about sixteen strong ridges ; lateral faces 

 dullish, the triangle shining; tegulse dark brown; wings hyaline, 

 nervures and stigma black, stigma small, marginal cell appendicu- 

 late, second recurrent nervure considerably bent; second submar- 

 ginal cell extremely broad, larger than the third; legs black, with 

 yellowish-white, almost silvery, pubescence ; pubescence on inner 

 side of hind tarsi yellowish-white, except that the first-three joints 

 are tipped with shining orange-fulvous ; abdomen lanceolate, shining ; 

 first two segments very strongly punctured, the punctures on the second 

 smaller and closer than on the first; remaining segments with minute 

 inconspicuous punctures, and a more sericeous surface ; hind margins 

 of the segments with broad oppressed white hair-bands, all very con- 

 spicuous, that on the first more or less interrupted in the middle ; 

 some inconspicuous short black hair on the dorsum of the third to 

 fifth segments, and on the apex. 



$ . — 10? mm. long. Similar to the ? , but more slender. Face 

 much more narrowed below; antennae long, wholly black; space 

 between eye and base of mandible somewhat larger, but still broader 

 than long ; thoracic pubescence rather more highly colored ; hair- 

 baud on first abdominal segment entire. 



Hab. — Olympia, Wash., July 5, 1896, at flowers of Potentilla 

 palusiris; also June 30th, at flowers of lupine. A large and hand- 

 some species, but closely similar to several others. 



C. incequalis differs at once in the 9 , but the S is quite like our 

 insect, being however larger, with a longer stigma, and the face less 

 narrowed below. 



C. simulans (known only in the S ) is smaller «than kincaidii, and 

 has the abdomen uniformily punctured. 



C. gilensis has black hair on the thoracic dorsum. C. compacta 

 has quite a different metathorax. C. aestivalis differs by the brown 

 stigma, the much narrower second submarginal cell, the more 

 parallel orbits, the much smaller punctures of the mesothorax, the 

 very dark tegulre, the stronger punctuation of the third abdominal 

 segment, and the pale fulvous hair on the apical segment. The 

 aestivalis compared is an Illinois example from Mr. Robertson. 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



I am surprised to find, on re examining the specimens, that the 

 species found by Prof. Wooton on Ruidoso Creek in New Mexico, 

 and recorded by me (An. Mag. Nat. Hist., Jan., 1897, p. 49) as 

 aestivalis, is in reality C. kincaidii. 



Habropoda floridana (Smith) var. n. pascoensis. 



9 . — Length about 16 mm., differs from Smith's description in that 

 the pubescence of the head is pale, mixed, however with black on 

 the face and vertex, the wings are little darkened, and the pubes- 

 cence at the sides of the end of the abdomen is shining white. The 

 pubescence of the thorax and of the first abdominal segment is very 

 bright orange fulvous, not at all mixed with black. The short 

 pubescence immediately surrounding the pygidial plate is black. 

 Tegulre black. Pubescence of legs black ; that on inner side of 

 front tarsi orange-rufous, the brushes at the ends of the segments 

 tipped with brilliant coppery-red. Hair on lower part of pleura 

 black. 



Hub.— Pasco, Wash., May 25, 1896, (T. Kincaid). It is just pos- 

 sible that this is the unknown 9 of H. morrisoni Cresson. It has a 

 superficial resemblance to Podalirius ursinus. 



Podalirius crotchii (Cresson). 



$ . — From Pasco, Wash., May 25, 1896 (T. Kincaid) agrees with 

 Cresson's description. Hitherto the species has only been reported 

 from California. The pubescence on the hind tarsi within is brilliant 

 fulvous. 



Podalirius syringse n. sp. 



$ . — Length about 12 mm., black, pubescence long and erect, not 

 very dense, mouse-color; strongly mixed with black on hind two- 

 thirds of mesothorax, and anterior margin of scutellum ; black also 

 on vertex and upper part of cheeks, mixed with black on front and 

 more or less on sides of face ; pubescence of abdomen long, thin and 

 pale at base of first and sides of first-three segments, dorsally from 

 the third segment onward scanty and black, some pale hairs at the 

 extreme apex ; no hair-bauds. Clypeus except the black anterior 

 edge, a supraclypeal band, irregularly v shaped lateral marks, and 

 labrum except the anterior margin and upper lateral corners, all 

 lemon-yellow. Mandibles and the quite long antennae wholly black. 

 Mesothorax dull, with numerous shallow punctures, two small im- 

 punctate central areas. Metathorax shining. Legs slender, ante- 

 rior and middle trochanters, and upper half of anterior femora be- 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



hind, with shining white hair ; otherwise the pubescence of the 

 femora, as of the tibia?, is black. Tarsi with partly black and partly 

 pale hair, that on the inner side of the first four tarsi shining ferru- 

 ginous; small joints of tarsi a lively ferruginous. Teguloe black or 

 piceous. Wings dusky hyaline. Apex of abdomen bidentate. 



Hab. — Olympia, Wash., July 3rd, at flowers of Syringa; also 

 June 27th, (T. Kincaid). Nearest to P. simillimus (Cress.), but 

 differs by the wholly black scape and the distribution of the pubes- 

 cence. 

 Megaohile calogaster n. sp. 



$. — Length 1 1—12 J mm., stoutly built, black, with pubescence 

 varying from pale ochraceousto whitish, not dense enough on thorax 

 to conceal the surface, some short black hair on cheeks just behind 

 eyes, and a good deal on the middle of the mesothorax. Head 

 ordinary ; a conspicuous patch of white hair on lower part of cheek ; 

 face quite densely clothed with yellowish-white hair ; vertex strongly 

 punctured, as also the clypeus ; antennas wholly dark, last joint oval 

 and flattened ; mandibles black, elbowed without, tridentate ; thorax 

 strongly and closely punctured ; anterior coxce with a large rather 

 broad and blunt spire, above which is a transverse patch of the most 

 brilliant orange-rufous pubescence; anterior femora stout, sub- 

 trigonal, ferruginous with a black patch at base and apex within, 

 the latter connecting with a broad black external stripe extending 

 the whole length of the femur ; under side of anterior femur with 

 long snow-white pubescence; anterior tibia short and thick, black 

 without, mostly ferruginous within, a large apical triangular patch 

 without pale yellow, apex with a blunt pale yellowish tooth extend- 

 ing at right angles to the axis; anterior tarsi pale yellow, tinged with 

 ferruginous toward the end; first joint hollowed, produced at the end, 

 but not extending as far as tip of second joint ; second and third 

 joints broadened, and elongated at one side; anterior tarsi behind 

 fringed with long white hair ; middle and hind legs entirely black, 

 their femora and tibiae with scanty whitish pubescence, partly black 

 on hind legs, their tarsi with shining orange-fulvous hair; claws 

 with the basal half ferruginous, the apical half black ; tegulaa black, 

 punctured ; wings tinged with fuliginous, nervures black, marginal 

 cell quite long and narrow ; abdomen short and convex, without any 

 hair bands, but having rather long thin pubescence, nowhere con- 

 cealing the surface, grayish-white or pale ochreous on the first two 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



segments, nearly all black on the rest ; apex with a broad semicir- 

 cular emargination ; three large subapical ventral teeth. 



9 . — About 14 mm. long; similar to the $ , except in the usual 

 sexual characters. Legs black, with black pubescence ; that on the 

 inner side of the front and hind tarsi, and both sides of the middle 

 tarsi, lively ferruginous; pubescence of cheeks all black; ventral 

 scop>a dense, black only to a slight extent at base, otherwise very bril- 

 liant orange-fulvous. 



Hab. — Olympia, Wash., June 30th, at flowers of lupine; also 

 June 19th to July 4th (T. Kincaid). A distinct and handsome 

 species. 

 Sphecodes kincaidii n. sp. 



9 . — Length 12 mm., the abdomen quite elongated with approxim- 

 ately parallel sides. Head and thorax black, abdomen entirely bright 

 ferruginous ; head transversely oval, front dull and very coarsely 

 rugose, clypeus subcancellate with strong punctures; pubescence of 

 face dirty whitish; antennce wholly dark; first joint of flagellum 

 very short, broader than long; mandibles dark, only rufescent at 

 the extreme tip, inner tooth short and blunt ; labrum not emargin- 

 ate ; mesothorax nearly bare, shining, with large strong punctures ; 

 base of metathorax coarsely cancellate, enclosed by a rim; tegular 

 brown ; wings rather pale fulginous, nervures and stigma piceous, 

 stigma considerably larger than in S. dichrous, first recurrent nervure 

 joining second submarginal cell before its end ; legs black, hind tarsi 

 entirely ferruginous ; abdomen smooth and shining, with small sparse 

 punctures, first two segments appearing nearly impunctate, with a 

 very few large punctures and more numerous very minute ones. 

 The third segment is much more punctate than the second. Apex 

 with some dark hair. 



#a&.— Olympia, Wash., June 19, 1895 (T. Kincaid). Easily 

 known by the large size, and the narrow elongate sparsely punctured 

 abdomen. It is not likely, I think, that it is the unknown 9 of 

 S. davisii Rob. S. dichrous Sm., also occurs at Olympia. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



SYNOPSIS OF THE RECENT AND TERTIARY PSAMMOBIIDJE OF 



NORTH AMERICA. 



BY W. H. DALL. 



Family PSAMMOBIID^J. 



Genus PSAMMOBIA Lamarck. 



(—Psammobia (Lara., 1818) Bowdich, 1822; + Gari (pars) 

 Schumacher, 1817; -f- Haplomochlia Gistel, 1848 (fide Morch, 

 1852). Not Psammobia Cossman, 1886). 



Type P. (Tdlina) feromsis Gmelin, 1792, = T. gari Lin., 1762, 

 not of Lin., 1758. North European Seas. 



Section Psamniobia s. s. 



1. Psammobia (sp. indet.). 



880 fms. east of Tobago ; U. S. Fish Commission. A worn frag- 

 ment of undeterminable species. 



Section Grammatomya Dall, 1897. 



Wholly obliquely grooved, with no dorsal posterior area. 



2. Psammobia squamosa Lain. 

 Virgin Islands (Krebs). 



Subgenus GOBRiEUS Leach. 

 (— Solen Megerle, 1811, not Lin. 1758 ; -j- Psammobia Blainv., 

 1825, not (Lam., 1818) Bowdich, 1822 ; -f Sanguinolaria Blain- 

 ville, 1825, not Lamarck. 1799 ; + Azor Gray, 1851 (Brit. An., p. 

 51, not p. 62) ; -f- GobrcBUS (Leach MS.) Gray, 1852; -f Psammo- 

 cola sp., Blainv., 1825. Type Psammobia vespertina Lam. Eu- 

 ropean Seas. 



3. Gobraeus vaginatus Reeve. 

 Charlotte Harbor, Florida (?). 



4. Gobraeus circe Morch. 



Tortola and St. Thomas, West Indies. 



* * * 



5. Gobraeus maximus Deshayes. 

 Panama to the Gulf of California. 



6. Gobraeus regularis Carpenter. 

 Gulf of California. 



5 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



7. Gobrseus californicus Conrad. 



Sitka to San Diego, California, also Kamtchatka (Dall) and 

 Japan. 



8. Gobrseus fucatus Hinds. 

 Magdalena Bay, Lower California. 



9. Gobrseus edentulus Gabb. 



60 fms., San Pedro, California. 



Genus SANGUINOLARIA Lamarck. 



(= Sanguinolaria Lam., 1799, not Blainv., 1825, nor Desh., 

 1835; -f- Aulus (sp.) Oken, 1815, not Oken, 1821; + Lobaria 

 Schum., 1817, not Muller, 1776; + Hiatula sp. Modeer, 1793). 



Type S. (Solen) sanguinolentus Gmelin, Antilles. 



Section Sanguinolaria s. s. 



1. Sanguinolaria sanguinolenta Gmelin. 

 Antilles to Brazil ; Ceylon. 



2. Sanguinolaria tellinoides A. Adams. 

 Gulf of California to Panama. 



Section Psammotella Blainville. 



(Psammotelle Blainv., 1826; -f- Psammotella Herrm., 1852). 



3. Sanguinolaria operculata Gmelin. 

 Texas to Brazil. (Type species). 



4. Sanguinolaria hanleyi Bertin. 

 Lower California to Panama. 



5. Sanguinolaria vitrea Deshayes. 

 Texas to Colon. 



Section Nuttallia Dall, 1897. 



Inequivalve, suborbicular. 



6. Sanguinolaria nuttallii Conrad. 



Southern California and Japan. (Type species). 



Genus AMPHICH.ENA Philippi. 



(= Amphichcena Phil., 1847, not H. & A. Ads., 1856 ; -|- Am- 

 phidona Morch, 1858). Sole species known. 



1. Amphichaena kindermannii Phil. 

 Mazatlan. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



Genus HETERODONAX Morch. 



(= Heterodonax Morch, 1853 ; + Arcopagia Orb., 1863, not 

 Brown ex Leach MS., 1827). 



1. Heterodonax bimaculata Lin. 



Florida to Brazil on the Atlantic ; San Diego, California, to Pan- 

 ama, on the Pacific Coast. 



Genus ASAPHIS Modeer. 



(= Asaphis Modeer, 1793 ; + Capsa Lam., 1801, not Lam., 

 1799 ; + Capsula Schum., 1817, not Sby., 1857 ; + Psammocola 

 (pars) Blainv., 1825 ; -f Isarcha Gistel, 1848, fide Morch, 1852 ; 

 -f- Sanguinolaria Desh., 1835, not Lam., 1799; -f- Pliorhytis Con- 

 rad, 1863). 



Type Asaphis {Venus) defiorata Linn. Indo- Pacific. 



1. Asaphis coccinea Martyn, 1784. 



Charlotte Harbor, Florida, to Brazil. 



(Heteroglypta von Martens, 1880, will form a section of Asaphis, 

 characterized by divaricate sculpture. Type Psammobia contraria 

 Desh., Isle Bourbon). 



Genus TAGELUS Gray. 



(= Tagelus Grav, 1847 ; + Siliquaria Schum., 1817, not Lam., 

 1801 ; + Solecurtus Orb., 1853, not of Blainv., 1825 ; + Cultellus 

 sp., Conrad, 1845 ; -\- Mesopleura Conrad, 1867 ; -f Tagelus Fischer, 

 1887 ; + Psammosolen Hupe, 1848, not Bronn, 1831). 



Type T. (Solen) gibbus Spengler, 1794. 



Section Tagelus ss. 



1. Tagelus gibbus Spengler. 



Cape Cod to Brazil, and coast of West Africa. 



2. Tagelus violascens Carpenter. 



Gulf of California to Nicaragua. 



3. Tagelus californianus Conrad. 



San Pedro, California, to Lower California. 



4. Tagelus affinis C. B. Adams. 

 Sta. Barbara to Panama. 



Section Mesopleura Conrad. 



5. Tagelus divisus Spengler. 

 Cape Cod to Venezuela. 



6. Tagelus politus Carpenter. 



San Pedro to Panama. 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



7. Tagelus subteres Conrad. 



Southern California to Lower California. 



FOSSIL SPECIES OF THE TERTIARY. 



Eocene. 



Psammobia (Gobrceus) ozarkana Harris. Chickasawan. 

 Psammobia (Garum) jilosa Conrad. Claibornian. 

 Psammobia (Garum) claibornensis Dall. Claibornian. 

 Psammobia (Gobrceus) blainvillei (Lea). Claibornian. 

 Psammobia (Gobrceus) hornii (Gabb). Tejon. 

 Psammobia (Gobrceus) papyria Conrad. Jacksonian, Vicksburg- 

 ian and Chipolan. 



Psammobia (Gobrceus) lintea Conrad. Vicksburgian. 



Miocene. 

 Asaphis centenaria Conrad. Chesapeake. 



Pliocene. 



Psammobia (Gobrieus) wagneri Dall. Caloosahatchie and Wac- 

 camaw beds. 



Psammobia (Gobrams) edentula (Gabb). Californian. 



Tagelus gibbus Spengler. Caloosahatchie beds, and also Pleisto- 

 cene of South Carolina. 



Tagelus divisus Spengler. Caloosahatchie beds, and also Pleisto- 

 cene of South Carolina. 



The other North American fossil species referred to Psammobia, 

 Psammocola, Sanguinolaria, Solecurtus, Siliquaria, etc., belong in 

 other genera or are synonyms of the cited species. 



SYNONYMS AND CORRECTIONS. 



Capsa deflorata Orb. — Asaphis eoccinea (Mart.) Morch. 

 Cultellus californianus Conrad, = Tagelus californianus. 

 Gultellus caribcms Conrad, 1845, = Mocha sp. 

 Cultellus subteres Conrad, — Tagelus subteres. 

 Leguminaria floridana Conrad, = Tagelus divisus Spgl. 

 Mesopleura bidentata Conrad, = Tagelus divisus. 

 Petricola centenaria Conrad, = Asaphis centenaria. 

 Psammobia affinis C. B. Adams, = Heterodonax bimaculata. 

 Psammobia biradiata C. B. Adams, = Heterodonax bimaculata. 

 Psammobia casta (Desh.) Reeve, — Macoma cognata C. B. Ads. 

 Psammobia cayennensis Lam., = Macoma constricta. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



Psammobia cerina C. B. Adams, = Macoma cerina. 



Psammobia constricta Lam., = Macoma constricta. 



Psammobia declivis Turton, = Tagelus gib bus Spengler. 



Psammobia decora Hinds, = Sanguinolaria nuttallii Conrad. 



Psammobia lusoria Say, = Macoma lusoria. 



Psammobia pacifica Conrad, = Heterodonax bimaculata. 



Psammobia purpureo-maculata C. B. Adams, = Heterodonax bi- 

 maculata. 



Psammobia rosea Deshayes, = Sanguinolaria sanguinolenta. 



Psammobia rugosa Sby., = Asaphis coccinea. 



Psaynmobia rubroradiata Cpr., (1863), = P. californica Conrad, 

 (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1848, p. 121). 



Psammobia tozniata Turton, = Tagelus divisus. 



Psammocola lucinoides H. C. Lea, = f Diplodonta sp. 



Psammocola pleiocena T. & H., = Asaphis centenaria. 



Psammocola regia H. C. Lea, = Asaphis centenaria. 



Psammocola rugosa Blainv., = Asaphis coccinea. 



Sanguinolaria californiana Conrad, = Macoma sp. 



Sanguinolaria fusca Say, = Macoma fusca. 



Sanguinolaria miniata Gould, = S. tellinoides A. Ads. 



Sanguinolaria ovalis (Desh.) Reeve, = S. tellinoides junior. 



Sanguinolaria purpurea (Desh.) Reeve, = S. tellinoides. 



Sanguinolaria rufescens Chemn., = S. operculata Gmel. 



Siliquaria caribcea Holmes, = Tagelus gibbus. 



Siliquaria carolinensis Conrad, = Tagelus sp. indet. 



Siliquaria edentula Gabb, = Psammobia edentula. 



Siliquaria equalis Conrad, = Tagelus sp. 



Siliquaria gibba A. Adams, = Tagelus gibbus. 



Siliquaria notata Schumacher, = Tagelus gibbus. 



Solecurtus angulatus Sby., = Tagelus gibbus. 



Solecurtus bideus Forbes & Hanley, — Tagelus divisus. 



Solecurtus californianus Carpenter, = Tagelus calif ornianus. 



Solecurtus caribceus Blainville, = Tagelus gibbus. 



Solecurtus centralis Sowerby, = Tagelus gibbus. 



Solecurtus cylindricus Sowerby, = Tagelus affinis. 



Solecurtus fragilis Conrad, = Tagelus divisus. 



Solecurtus subteres Emmons, = Siliquaria equalis Conrad. 



Solecurtus subteres Conrad, = Tagelus subteres. 



Solecurtus violascens Sowerby, = Tagelus violascens Cpr. 



Solen adansonii Bosc, = Tagelus guineensis. 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Solen bidens Chemnitz, = Tagelus divisus. 

 Solen carpenteri Dunker, = Tagelus divisus. 

 Solen centralis Say, = Tagelus divistcs. 

 Solen fragilis Pulteney, = Tagelus divisus. 

 Tellina fucata Hinds, = Psammobia fucata. 

 Tellina fucata Gould, = Strigilla fucata. 



Tellina rufescens Chemnitz, = Sanguinolaria operculata Gmel. 

 Tellina rufescens Roemer, = Sanguinolaria hanleyi Bertin. 

 Tellina semiplanata Spengler, = Sanguinolaria operculata Gme- 

 lin. 



Tellina vicina C. B. Adams, = Heterodonax bimaeulata. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



THE GERRHONOTUS OF THE SAN LUCAN FAUNA, LOWER CALIFORNIA, 

 WITH DIAGNOSIS OF OTHER WEST AMERICAN SPECIES. 



BY JOHN VAN DENBURGH. 



A little more than two years ago, in a consideration of the rep- 

 tiles of Lower California, 1 I said that " Without larger series of the 

 other species than are at hand, the status of the Gerrhonoti from the 

 'Cape Region ' of Lower California cannot be satisfactorily deter- 

 mined. It seems probable, however, that they are distinct from the 

 more northern G. scincicauda, and are referable to the name G. 

 multicarinatus Blainv." More recently 2 I have been able to ex- 

 amine large numbers of specimens of the four species of this genus 

 which are known to occur in California, Oregon and Washington, 

 and to discover more or less definite limits to their variation. I 

 wish now to consider the status of the Lower Californian form. 3 



At first glance the lower Californian lizard bears a resemblance 

 to Gerrhonotus principis of the Puget Fauna. This, however, is 

 merely a superficial resemblance due to the comparative smoothness 

 of these two forms, and in a less degree to their similar size and the 

 occasional absence of complete dorsal color bands in the San Lucan 

 species. In the number of the longitudinal rows of its dorsal scales 

 this Gerrhonotus is similar to G. pahneri and G. burnettii. In 

 other characters, however, it approaches Gerrhonotus scincicauda, 

 to which I believe it is most closely related. 



The following table shows the variation in the several species of 

 those characters which seem to be of value in classification. The 

 figures indicate the number of specimens examined. 



From this table we may formulate a key which will serve to 

 identify most specimens : 



1 Proc. Cal Acad. Sci. (2), V, 1895, p. 119. 



J Occasional Papers, Cal. Acad. Sci., V, 1897, pp. 102-115. 



s In making this comparison I have had twenty six specimens from San 

 Jose del Cabo, Sierra El Taste, Sierra San Lazaro, Sierra Laguna and Mira- 

 flores. 




64 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



KEY TO SPECIES. 



a. — Dark ventral lines between the longitudinal rows of scales or 

 absent, 

 b. — Dorsal scales weakly keeled, in fourteen (rarely 14|) lon- 

 gitudinal rows. 



G. principis. 



b 2 . — Dorsal scales strongly keeled, in sixteen (rarely 14f or 18) 



longitudinal rows. 



c. — Temporal scales smooth. 



G. burnettii. 



c 2 . — Lower temporal scales keeled. 



G. palmeri. 



a 2 . — Dark ventral lines along middle of longitudinal scale rows. 



d. — Dorsal scales weekly keeled, in sixteen (rarely 14 



or 14 1) longitudinal rows. 



G. multicar hiatus. 



d 2 . — Dorsal scales strongly keeled, in fourteen (rarely 



12f or 14?) longitudinal rows. 



G. scincicauda. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



Brief characterizations of these five species may prove useful : — 



Gerrhonotus principis. 



Lower temporal scales smooth ; dorsal and caudal scales weakly- 

 keeled ; dorsals in fourteen (or 14§) longitudinal rows; dark ventral 

 lines between the longitudinal rows of scales, or absent ; azygous 

 prefontal of moderate size or small; interoccipitals two or three 

 (or 1) ; back without complete dark cross-bands. 



Gerrhonotus burnettii. 



Lower temporal scales smooth ; dorsal and caudal scales strongly 

 keeled; dorsals in sixteen (rarely 15J or 18) longitudinal rows; 

 dark ventral lines between the longitudinal rows of scales, or 

 absent; azygous prefontal usually small or of moderate size; inter- 

 occipitals two to four (rarely 1) ; dorsal color bands usually broken 

 and closer than in G. scincicauda. 



Gerrhonotus palmeri. 



Temporal scales keeled ; dorsal and caudal scales strongly keeled ; 

 dorsals in sixteen longitudinal rows ; dark ventral lines absent (or 

 between the longitudinal rows of scales) ; azygous prefrontal large ; 

 interoccipital normally single ; back without complete dark cross' 

 bands. 



Gerrhonotus multicarinatus. 



Lower temporal scales smooth ; dorsal and caudal scales weakly 

 keeled; dorsals in sixteen (rarely 14 or 14H) longitudinal rows; 

 dark lines along the middle of each of the longitudinal rows of 

 ventral scales ; azygous prefrontal large ; interoccipital normally 

 single ; back with or without complete dark cross-bars. 



Gerrhonotus scincicauda. 



Lower temporal scales smooth ; dorsal and caudal scales strongly 

 keeled; dorsals in fourteen (rarely 12| or 14|) longitudinal rows; 

 dark lines along the middle of each of the longitudinal rows of 

 ventral scales (very rarely absent) ; azygous prefrontal large (rarely 

 moderate-sized); interoccipital usually single; back usually with 

 complete dark cross-bands. 



Principis (B. & G.) finds its home in the Puget Fauna of western 

 Washington and Oregon, and perhaps occurs in the mountains 

 of northern California. G. burnettii Gray occupies a narrow strip 

 along the coast of California from Monterey to Mendocino County. 

 G. palmeri (Stejneger) is native to the western slope of the Sierra 




66 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



Nevada of El Dorado, Tuolumne, Mariposa, Fresno and Tulare 

 Counties, California, between the altitudes of 3,700 and 9,000 feet. 

 G. multicarinatus (Blainville) appears to be confined to the San 

 Lucan Fauna of Lower California. G. scincicauda (Skilton) has 

 been found in northwestern Lower California, in the San Diegan^ 

 Californian and Pacific Faunse of California, in western Oregon and 

 in Washington, its range overlapping those of G. burnettii, G.pal- 

 meri and, probably, G. principis. 



The probable relationship of these species may be indicated 

 thus: — 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



4 



ANATOMICAL NOTES ON CERTAIN WEST AMERICAN HELICES. 



by h. a. pilsbry and e. g. vanatta. 1 



The genus Glyptostoma. 



This genus has very distinct conchological features, the shell re- 

 calling the typical Zonites in form. The jaw, radula and genitalia 

 have been investigated and figured by W. G. Binney. From 

 these data the senior writer placed Glyptostoma in the group Belo- 

 gona Euadenia of the arrangement of Helices given in volume IX of 

 the Manual of Conchology, near the genus Epiphragniophora. We 

 have now examined two specimens of G. Newberryanum. The genital 

 system of one is figured on PI. I, fig. 1. The two examples dis- 

 sected agree perfectly in all details, but in several points do not 

 correspond with Binney's figures. The right eye is retracted be- 

 tween $ and 9 branches of the genitalia. The penis is continued a 

 short distance beyond the insertion of the vas deferens, and may be 

 regarded as having a rudimentary epiphallus, the long retractor 

 inserted thereon distally. There is no trace of a flagellum. Vagina 

 long, at its apex the very long duct of the spermatheca enters. This 

 duct is of the length of the uterus and terminates in a large globular 

 spermatheca. No diverticulum. At the point where the sp. d. 

 enters, an ovate sessile body is placed. This has the shining, fleshy 

 muscular substance commonly seen in dart sacks ; and we do not 

 doubt that the organ is of that nature, although no dart was found in 

 either of the two individuals dissected. The lumen presented 

 several broad folds, and no distinct apical papilla. There is no trace 

 of mucus glands. The talon is unusually long. 



From these characters it appears that the genus, while probably 

 belonging with the series of American dart-bearing Helices, is 

 extremely isolated. The other American genera, Epiphragmoph- 



1 The dissections and drawings of all species noticed in this paper are by 

 Mr. Vanatta, who is also responsible for all anatomical details of the several 

 forms. The more general discussions relating to the systematic bearings of 

 the facts developed are by Mr. Pilsbry. 



We would here acknowledge our indebtedness to Professor W. H. Dall for 

 alcoholic specimens of several of the forms discussed below. 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



ora, Lysinoe, Leptarionta, Cepolis, and Polymita are all more nearly 

 allied to each other than to Ghjptostoma? 



The lack of mucus glands is a degenerative feature unique in Be- 

 logona Euadenia, though it occurs in the Belogona Siphonadenia. 



The high insertion of the dart sack is very unusual. 



The talon is longer than in any other Helix known to us. 



The loss of a flagellum on the penis is unique among American 

 Euadenioz, but occurs in certain Chinese forms of Eulota and in 

 many other Old World groups. It is not usually a character of 

 generic importance in Helices. 



The Micrarionta group of Epiphragmophora. 



Micrarionta was proposed by Mr. C. F. Ancey as a subgenus of 

 Helix, based mainly, it would seem, upon the small size of the shell 

 and reflexed lip of its type, H. facta. In the " Guide to the Study 

 of Helices" the group was expanded to include the larger, simple- 

 lipped Lower Californian Helices which Binney (following von 

 Martens) referred to Euparypha; and it was shown to have well 

 marked anatomical features unlike any other known group of 

 Helices. 



The three subgeneric groups iuto which our West Coast Epiphr- 

 agmophoras were divided in the " Guide," — Micrarionta, Helmintho- 

 glypta and Monadenia, — differ trenchantly in the forms of their 

 mucus glands. In the first they are inserted by two separate ducts 

 at the base of, rather than upon, the dart sack. In the second a 

 single duct enters the dart sack, and splits into two bulbiferous 

 branches above. In the third there is a single club-shaped gland. 

 The other characters of the soft anatomy, as well as the shells, are 

 not very unlike in the three groups. 



Of the eleven species of Micrarionta, E. intercisa and E. levis are 

 unknown anatomically. E. Gabbi, rvficincta, intercisa, Kelletti and 

 Tryoni are known to us by W. G. Binney's figures, but several char- 

 acters being unnoticed by Binney, a reexamination of these is desir- 

 able. We have dissected E. areolata, Pandorce, Veitchii, Stearnsiana 

 and Guadalupiana. 



E. Guadalupiana Dall, PI. I, fig. 11 (genitalia) differs consider- 

 ably from the other species examined. The flagellum is but little 



2 Leptarionta is hardly sufficiently known to be included in this statement. 

 It should be stated that the shell characters of Glyptostoma are also notably 

 different from any of the other genera named. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



longer than the penis and epiphallus taken together. The sperma- 

 theea duct bears no diverticulum. The dart sack is degenerate, 

 reduced to a small wide bud, one mucus gland arising at its right 

 side, descending, club shaped, the other at left side, ascending and 

 slightly sacculated ; both entirely free, not bound to the vagina. The 

 right eye-retractor passes to the left of the genital system, not between 

 its branches. 



The last characters may be expected to occur in E. facta and 

 rufieincta. It is a very unusual feature. The subobsolete condition 

 of the dart sack is unlike any allied species. The measurements 

 are: length of penis+epiphallus 9 mm.; of flagellum 10; of sper- 

 matheca duct 15 mm. 



The other forms examined have the flagellum very long, dart sack 

 well developed, one of the mucus glands descending, spread upon 

 the base of vagina, the other upon the dart sack, both bound down. 

 Diverticulum developed and long except in Stearnsiana. In all, the 

 spermatheca arises high, near the distal end of the vagina. The 

 dimensions of the parts are as follows : 



Pandoras. Veitchii. Areolata. Stearnsiana. 

 Length of penis+epiphallus 15 35 28 22 28 mm. 



Length of flagellum 21 67 50 26 27 mm. 



Length of spermatheca duct 17j 54 49 43 35 mm. 



Length of diverticulum 13 43 25 1mm. 



Thrown into the form of an analytical key, the genital characters 

 give these results: 

 a. Right eye retractor passing between $ and 9 branches of geni- 

 talia ; diverticulum presents one mucus gland spread upon and 

 firmly bound to vagina below dart sack. 

 b. Flagellum and spermatheca duct of about equal length, 



areolata. 

 bb. Flagellum longer than spermatheca duct ; diverticulum f 

 to I length of spermatheca duct, much longer than the 

 other branch. 



c. Penis-j-epiphallus J length of flagellum . . . Pandora. 



cc. Penis+epiphallus about i length of flagellum . Veitchii. 



bbb. Flagellum shorter than spermatheca duct ; diverticulum 



very short or wanting Stearnsiana. 



aa. Right eye retractor not passing between branches of genitalia ; 

 mucus glands free; no diverticulum ; flagellum about the same 

 length as penis+epij)hallus. 

 b. Dart sack degenerate, very small Guadalupia'na. 




70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



No further details of the genitalia are needed except such as are 

 clearly shown in the figures; and of course some variation in the 

 absolute dimensions of various organs is to be expected. 



Details are lacking to intercalate the other species of the sub- 

 genus in the above synopsis, but from Binney's figures it seems that 

 E. Kelletti and Tryoni fall into § bb. of the first division (a.) of this 

 dichotomous table, and it is likely that E. ruficincta and facta group 

 in the second division, aa. They differ from E. Guadalupiana Dall 

 in having the dart sack well developed. The position of the eye 

 retractor muscle is unknown. Neither of them has a diverticulum 

 on the spermatheca duct. 



E.Stearnsiuna differs considerably from areolata, Pandorce, Veitchii 

 and, according to Binney's figures, Kelletti, in having the diverticulum 

 short or obsolete. Two specimens were dissected, both from Coro- 

 nado Islands. In one (66,091 A. N. S. P. Mus., coll. by A. W. 

 Anthony) there is no trace of a diverticulum. In the other (69,014, 

 from Prof. W. H. Dall) there is a very short diverticulum, about 

 1 mm. long, arising slightly beyond the lower fourth of the length 

 of spermatheca duct. In this specimen the duct is 8 mm. shorter 

 than in the other. Binney's figure shows a somewhat longer diver- 

 ticulum than our No. 69,014, but it is still very short. This variation 

 in the diverticulum is exactly paralleled in the European Helix 

 pomatia. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE I. 



Note. — The shells of the specimens furnishing the genitalia 

 figured, as well as the dissections, may be found in the collection of 

 the Academy bearing numbers corresponding to those given below. 



(Div., diverticulum of the spermatheca duct. d. s., dart sack. 

 Jl., flagellum. m. gl. as., ascending mucous gland, m. gl. des., de- 

 scending ditto, p., penis, r. p., penis retractor muscle, ^..sper- 

 matheca. sp. d., duct of the spermatheca. t., talon, vag., vagina). 



Fig. 1. Glyplostoma Newberryanum (W. G. B.). Pasadena, Cal. 



No. 68,997. 

 Fig. 2. Epijihragmophora Veitchii (Newc). Cerros Is., of Lower 



Cal. No. 69,647. 

 Fig. 3. The same individual, other side of the dart sac and adjacent 



organs. 

 Fig. 4, 5. Ep ip hragmophora Pandora 3 , Bonitosensis Pils. Las 



Bonitos Is., off Lower California. No. 66,092. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



Fig. 6, 7. Epiphragmophora areolata (Sowb.). Natividad Is. No. 

 69,646. In fig. 6 the opposite side of dart sack and associ- 

 ated organs is seen, and the spermatheca duct with its 

 diverticulum torn free from the uterus. 



Fig. 8. Epiphragmophora Stearnsiana (Gabb). Coronado Is. No. 

 69,014. " 



Fig. 9, 10. Another specimen from the same locality, No. 66,091, 

 showing no trace of the diverticulum upon spermatheca 

 duct. 



Fig. 11. Epiphragmophora Guadalupiana Dall. Guadalupe I., off" 

 Lower Cal. No. 69,648 (Drawn to double the scale of 

 other figures of this plate). 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



CONTRIBUTIONS TO A KNOWLEDGE OF THE HYMENOPTERA OF 

 BRAZIL, NO. 4.— THYNNINJE AND ADDITIONS. 



BY WILLIAM J. FOX. 



The author has withheld the publication of the present paper for 

 some time in the hope that an opportunity would preseut itself for 

 the classification of the true Mutillidse in the collection of Mr. H. H. 

 Smith, and thereby avoid the inconvenience of listing the Mutillidse 

 in more than one paper. Circumstances, however, will not permit 

 the carrying out of such a plan, so he feels obliged to present this 

 paper for publication, even though it deals with but a part of one 

 family. 1 



*lElurus carbonarius Sm. {==Elaphroptera carbonaria Sm.) 



Four specimens. Rio de Janeiro (November). 



iElurus aethiops King. {=Thynnnn aethiops Klug"). 



The description of this species as given by Klug will fit what I 

 have determined as Smith's Elaphroptera carbonaria, as will also 

 Klug's description of Thynnus anthracinus. The specimen I refer 

 to aethiops is larger and heavier than carbonarius, and is more 

 coarsely punctured. It is probable that carbonarius is the same as 

 anthracinus, but the descriptions of both are so poor that nothing 

 conclusive can be determined from them, except their faultiuess. 

 The specimen in question comes from Rio de Janeiro (November). 



JElurus nasutus Klug. 



Two specimens. Rio de Janeiro (November). 

 Elaphroptera sp. 



Two specimens (?) of a species apparently close to Thynnus 

 intermedins Klug. They are smaller than that species. Collected 

 in September at Chapada. 



Elaphroptera decora Sm. (—Thynnus decorus Sm.) 

 One specimen. 



'See Entomological News, IX, 1, Jan., 1897, p. 14. 



J sElurus carbonarius and AL. aethiops differ from typical sElurus (A. nasu- 

 tus) in the bidentate mandibles, in the third submarginal being longer than 

 second, in the emarginate or bidentate clypeus and comparatively shorter 

 maxillary palpi, in which joints 4-6, while much longer than the preceding 

 ones, are still not as long as in A. nasutus. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



Elaphroptera plagiata Sui. {==Thynnus plagiatus Sm.) 



One specimen. Both this and decora were collected at Chapada 

 (October). 



Elaphroptera cribraria n. sp. 



9. — Black; legs reddish testaceous, a curved yellow line over 

 the base of each antenna ; head large, twice as wide as broadest 

 part of mesothorax, covered with deep, regularly separated punc- 

 tures (the punctuation is almost sieve-like), covered with a rather 

 long, pale, erect pubescence ; cheeks behind eyes almost impunctate ; 

 scape shining, strongly punctured, bearing some stiff, golden hairs 

 beneath, as do also the mandibles; mandibles falcate, when closed 

 apparently not dentate ; mesothorax above with large, sparse punc- 

 tures, emarginate and depressed anteriorly in the middle, pleurae 

 polished ; scutellum punctured ; middle segment finely punctured, 

 subconvex, not excavated or depressed ; hind femora beneath, be- 

 fore apex, with a long tooth or spine ; tibia? and tarsi very strongly 

 spinose ; tarsal claws cleft; abdomen large, with strong, sparse 

 punctures and long, pale pubescence beneath ; second dorsal seg- 

 ment bearing four sharp, transverse carinas, the first dorsal trans- 

 versely sulcate at apex ; sixth segment in the form of a narrow, lon- 

 gitudinal carina. Length 13 mm. 



Rio de Janeiro (November). One specimen. 



Elaphroptera brunnea n. sp. 



9 . — Brown, the head in front, thorax and legs in part, and two first 

 abdominal segments, palest, the remainder castaneous or blackish- 

 brown ; mandibles basally, a spot before and behind the eyes, sides of 

 clypeus, fore femora internally, spot at apex of medial femora, stripe 

 on fore tibia? externally, and on medial tibia? internally, yellow. 

 Head medium, wider than thorax, finely though distinctly punctured, 

 with sparse long hairs; occiput high and sharply margined, sparsely 

 punctured ; scape strongly punctured with some golden bristles be- 

 neath ; mandibles slender, falcate, without teeth ; mesothorax above 

 with two concavities, the portion dividing them formed into a tooth- 

 like process posteriorly ; middle segment rather squarely cut off be- 

 hind, the upper surface in the middle posteriorly with a tubercle or 

 prominence; thorax is not distinctly punctured; tibia? and tarsi 

 strongly spinose; hind femora scarcely dentate at apex beneath; 

 first dorsal segment of abdomen sharply truncate anteriorly, the 

 truncation bounded posteriorly by a carina, behind which in the 



6 




74 PROCEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



middle stands a small tubercle ; second dorsal with three strong, 

 transversely-parallel carinse ; remaining dorsal sparsely punctured ; 

 ventrals flat, more distinctly punctured, especially the fifth which is 

 also rugose-striate on apical portion. Length 9 mm. 

 Chapada. Two specimens. 



Elaphroptera pallida n. sp. 



9 . — Yellowish-testaceous ; spot surrounding the eye and a line 

 extending up to the occiput on each side of front, whitish-yellow ; 

 head closely and finely punctured, sparsely so on occiput; the lat- 

 ter rather prominent posteriorly and suhemarginate medially ; scape 

 triangular, greatly broadened apically ; mesothorax bearing a longi- 

 tudinal, medial fold, which is furrowed on posterior portion, and on 

 each side of which, posteriorly, stands a horn or tooth-like process; 

 a median fold on scutellum ; middle segment indistinctly punctured, 

 the upper surface prominent, slightly tuberculate medially and at 

 postero lateral angles; hind femora but slightly dentate beneath at 

 apex ; tarsal claws cleft ; abdomen above with sparse punctures, 

 which become closer posteriorly, those of ventral surface stronger 

 and closer, especially on fifth segment; first dorsal sharply truncate 

 anteriorly, the truucated portion divided by a slender raised line 

 and bearing some stiff, pale hairs above ; second dorsal with three 

 transverse carime, the first rather feeble and short, the other two 

 very sharp; body with long, sparse, pale hairs. Length 6i mm. 



Chapada (November). One specimen. 

 Elaphroptera clitellata Klug. (—Thynnus clitellatus Klug). 



A specimen from Chapada (October). The claws are cleft and 

 the second dorsal abdominal segment bears an acute transverse car- 

 ina before its apex, anterior to which the segment is rugose. The 

 legs in the specimen before me are not yellow, but rufo-testaceous. 

 It agrees well with Klug's figure of the species, except that the yellow 

 of mesothorax is restricted to a small dot on each side anteriorly. 



Telephoromyia punicea n. sp. 



$. — Reddish-brown, flagellum, spot enclosing ocelli, dorsulum 

 and pleura more or less, thorax beneath, and legs, except tibiae and 

 tarsi, blackish ; clypeus and mandibles except apex, yellowish ; 

 head closely punctured, clothed with pale, glittering pubescence; 

 clypeus concave in middle with two strong teeth or prongs, ante- 

 riorly ; mandibles rather large, terminating in a sharp point, ante- 

 rior to which the inner margin is broadly enlarged and bidentate ; 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



antennae slightly longer than head and thorax united ; joints of fla- 

 gellurn rounded beneath, the first two about equal in length ; punc- 

 tuation of thorax coarser than that of head, that of dorsulum coars- 

 est, that on mesopleurse closest; scutellum strongly convex ; tarsal 

 claws cleft; tibial spurs small as compared to yElurus carbonarius ; 

 abdomen depressed, with distinct separated punctures and pale pube- 

 scence; pygidium large, convex, obtusely rounded at apex, coarsely 

 rugose ; last ventral segment bearing two flap-like carina?, one on 

 each side, between which is the subgenital plate which is sub-acute 

 at apex ; wings fuscous, with purplish reflection, stigma and costa 

 reddish, other veins black. Length 21 mm. 

 One specimen. Chapada (October). 



The following species of Pepsis have been identified by Herr Dr. 

 R. Lucas, of Berlin, and were not included in the paper on Pom- 

 pilidse : 



Pepsis aspasia Luc. 



One specimen. Corumba (April). 

 Pepsis Foxi Luc. 



A large series, of both sexes. Chapada (March, April, October). 

 Pepsis smaragdinula Luc. 



Rio de Janeiro (November) ; Chapada (January, March, April). 

 Nine $ , five $ specimens. 



Pepsis Schlenki Luc. 



Five specimens. Chapada (January, March). 

 Pepsis defecta Tasch. 



Several specimens. 

 Pepsis Pertyi var. ruficornis Luc. 



Chapada (April). One specimen. 

 Pepsis centaurus Luc. 



Chapada (April). One specimen. 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



THE SUMMER BIRDS OF SUSQUEHANNA COUNTY, PENNSYLVANIA. 

 BY FRANCIS R. COPE, JR. 1 



Since the publication of Dr. Dwight's paper on the " Summei 

 Birds of the Crest of the Pennsylvania Alleghenies," (Auk, IX, 

 April, 1892), and Mr. Stone's on the " Summer Birds of Harvey's 

 Lake, Luzerne County, Pennsylvania," (Proc. Acad. Nat. ScL 

 Phila., 1891, pp. 431-438) 2 no detailed account has appeared of the 

 summer birds of the northeastern part of the State, although it has 

 generally been supposed that the fauna of this region partook 

 largely of the nature of the North Mountain district, with perhaps 

 a slightly stronger tinge of the Canadian element. Indeed, on the 

 faunal map attached to Mr. Stone's volume on the " Birds of 

 eastern Pennsylvania and New Jersey" 3 almost the whole of Sus- 

 quehanna County is included in what is known as the Canadian 

 fauna. 



The present paper, based on several years study of the birds of 

 the county, and including only such species as have been observed 

 during the breeding season, s»y from June 15th to the second week 

 in July, shows, I think, that the fauna of Susquehanna County, al- 

 though it has a strong tinge of this Canadian element, possesses it 

 to a less marked degree than the mountainous region further south. 

 This fact may doubtless be accounted for by the absence of any very 

 extensive hemlock forests, such as those found around Harvey's 

 Lake and on North Mountain. 



Reference to a map will show that Susquehanna County is sit- 

 uated in the northeastern part of Pennsylvania, between latitude 

 41° 40' and 42°. It is part of the Allegheny and Pocono plateaux, 

 and may be described as a hilly, rocky country, iuterspersed with 

 innumerable small valleys. With the exception of many small 



1 Read before the Delaware Valley Ornithological Club at the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



2 Since the above was written, a paper has been published bearing on this 

 subject, entitled " Summer Birds of northern Elk County, Pennsylvania," by 

 William L. Baily, [Auk, XIII, October, 1896). 



3 " Birds of eastern Pennsylvania and New Jersey," by Witmer Stone, pub- 

 lished by the D. V. O. Club, Philadelphia, 1894. 




1898,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



lakes and ponds, the land is poorly watered, there being but few 

 streams of any size. A spur of the Alleghenies extends through 

 the southeastern corner, terminating in Elk Mountain, which last 

 rises to an altitude of about 3,000 feet and is almost the only emi- 

 nence in the county worthy of the name of mountain, the other hills 

 not rising much above 2,000 feet. The vast tracts of forest, which 

 fifty years ago covered the greater part of the county, now every- 

 where bear witness to the ravages of axe and fire, and are broken 

 up into isolated patches. Among the principal forest trees may be 

 mentioned the Beech, Maple, Hemlock, Chestnut, Birch, and Pine, 

 the last mentioned being, perhaps, the least plentiful of the six. Of 

 these species the Hemlock has doubtless suffered the most, being 

 particularly prized for its bark ; nevertheless it is still found in con- 

 siderable numbers interspersed among the other trees. 



It is in these small, but numerous tracts of primeval forest which 

 yet remain uncut, that we find most of the truly Canadian species. 

 Here such northern birds as Black-throated, Blue, Canadian, Mag- 

 nolia and Blackburnian Warblers, Water Thrushes, Solitary Vireos 

 and Hermit Thrushes are all more or less common, some being abun- 

 dant, but they are almost entirely confined to the deep woods, espe- 

 cially where there is a thick growth of hemlock. Of other Cana- 

 dian species, the Junco seems to be generally confined to the open 

 clearings and pastures bordering on woodland, and is decidedly 

 rare, Elk Mountain being the only locality where it has been found 

 breeding in any numbers. Even here, however, where during the 

 latter part of June, 1894, I found upward of a dozen pairs breed- 

 ing at an altitude of 2,600 feet, not a single bird was observed on a 

 second visit, July 2, 1897. Winter Wreus are conspicuous by their 

 absence, although there seems to be no good reason why this spe- 

 cies should not occur plentifully, unless it be owing to the absence 

 of any very extensive hemlock forests, as before remarked. My 

 only reasou for mentioning them in this paper is that during the 

 first week in July, 1897, I twice heard a song in the depths of a 

 hemlock forest near Dimock, which, although I am not familiar 

 with the bird, I felt almost sure was the note of a Winter Wren. 

 This would seem to point at least to the possibility of its breeding. 



In the open land throughout the greater part of the county, es- 

 pecially in moist upland meadows, Savannah Sparrows are very 

 common, generally breeding in small colonies; while at DundaflT, in 

 the southeastern portion, in open fields at an altitude of some 2,000 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



feet, the Bobolink is an abundant breeder, also occurring locally at 

 many points in the central and eastern part of the county. 



As to the occurrence of several species of water birds during the 

 breeding season in Susquehanna County, I can state nothing posi- 

 tive, not having visited several of the more retired lakes and streams 

 in the northwestern portion of the county, where they would be 

 most likely to be found. 



To sum up, I think it may be said that the fauna of Susquehanna 

 County is largely Alleghenian, with a strong tinge of the Canadian, 

 but with practically nothing of what may be regarded as belonging 

 exclusively to the Carolinian element. To be sure, Dr. Warren 

 (Birds of Pennsylvania, p. 300) mentions having taken a Hooded 

 Warbler in the county during the summer months, while on August 

 10, 1895. I shot a pair of adult Prothonotary Warblers near Dim- 

 ock, but these species can hardly be regarded as more than strag- 

 glers. 



In the following list I have made no mention of the birds breed- 

 ing, as with few exceptions all the individuals noted during the last 

 of June and early part of July may reasonably be assumed to be 

 summer residents and to be breeding in the locality where seen. 



Such species as have not come under my personal observation or 

 whose status as breeders may be doubtful, have been placed in 

 brackets. 



Before concluding, I desire to express my thanks to Mr. Witmer 

 Stone, of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, who 

 visited the county in June 1896 and 1897, and who has rendered 

 valuable assistance in many ways. 



[1. Aix sponsa. Wood Duck. 



Formerly a common breeder in the more retired lakes and 

 streams, but now decidedly rare. A pair seen during the early part 

 of August, 1895, near a wild overgrown pond in the vicinity of 

 Dimock only points to the probability of its breeding]. 



2. Ardea herodias. Great Blue Heron. 



Rare. Scattered pairs occasionally seen along the larger streams 



throughout the county. 



ft 



3. Ardea virescens. Green Heron. 



Tolerably common, but like the last never found breeding in col- 

 onies, there being generally but a single pair in one locality. The 

 birds, however, show great partiality for the old breeding grounds, 

 and generally return to the same spot year after year. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



4. Nycticorax nycticorax naevius. Black-crowned Night Heron. 



This species has been observed but rarely during the breeding 

 season, though there seerus to be no reason whv it should not be 

 plentiful. 



5. Philohela minor. American Woodcock. 



Rather common, but yearly becoming scarcer as a breeder. 



6. Bartramia longicauda. Bartramian Sandpiper. 



One bird observed in an upland pasture near Dimock, June 

 19, 1897, and evidently breeding from its actions, is my only record 

 for the county. 



7. Actitis macularia. Spotted Sandpiper. 



Common in all suitable localities. 



8. Colinus virginianus. Bob-white. 



Much less common now than formerly, but solitary individuals 

 and an occasional covey are still frequently met with. During the 

 last two years, however, there has been a noticeable increase in the 

 numbers of this bird throughout the county. 



9. Bonasa umbellus. Ruffed Grouse. 



More plentiful than C. virginianus, but fast becoming rarer as 

 the forests are cut away, thus depriving it of suitable breeding 

 grounds and hiding places. 



[10. Ectopistes migratorius. Passenger Pigeon. 



A flock of four was seen July 19, 1897, in a dead chestnut tree 

 on the edge of a strip of woodland near Dimock. Although I had 

 a good look at the birds through my glass and feel no reasonable 

 doubt as to the identity, I was unfortunately unable to secure any 

 of them. This species is known to have formerly been an abundant 

 breeder in Susquehanna County, but these are the first individuals 

 seen for many years. This occurrence at this season of the year 

 may possibly indicate that they still nest occasionally in the wilder 

 parts of the county]. 



11. Zenaidura macroura. Mourning Dove. 



This species, which may be regarded as common to the Alleghe- 

 nian and Carolinian zones, though perhaps more typical of the lat- 

 ter, is not uncommon in some localities, although decidedly rare in 

 others. 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



12. Circus hudsonius. Marsh Hawk. 



The county is seemingly far too hilly and mountainous to suit the 

 habits of this hawk, but nevertheless a pair has been seen regularly 

 during June and July for several years past on a small marshy 

 meadow surrounding Elk Lake, and doubtless breeds there. 



13. Accipiter velox. Sharp-shinned Hawk. 



Rather common, being frequently met with during the breeding 



season. 



14. Accipiter cooperi. Cooper's Hawk. 



Rare and much less common than the preceding. 



15. Buteo borealis. Red-tailed Hawk. 



Decidedly the most abundant hawk in the county, a few being 

 seen almost daily. 



16. Buteo lineatus. Red-shouldered Hawk. 



Probably ranks next to B. borealis in abundance. 



17. Falco sparverius. Sparrow Hawk. 



Rather common. 



[18. Syrnium nebulosum. Barred Owl. 



The only record which I have of the occurrence of this owl in 

 summer time is an adult male shot by a friend during the latter part 

 of August, 1897. It may doubtless be regarded as a rare perma- 

 nent resident]. 



19. Megascops asio. Screech Owl. 



Common resident. 



20. Bubo virginianus. Great-horned Owl. 



Tolerably common resident in the deeper forests throughout the 

 county. 



21. Coccyzus erytbropbthalmus. Black-billed Cuckoo. 

 Not uncommon, during the breeding season. 



22. Ceryle alcyon. Belted Kingfisher. 



Tolerably common along the banks of ponds and streams, being 

 especially abundant at Silver Lake in the northwestern part of the 

 county. 



23. Dryobates villosus. Hairy Woodpecker. 

 Common throughout the wooded portions. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



24. Dryobates pubescens. Downy Woodpecker. 



Abundant and generally distributed, both in the woodland and 

 in the open country. 



[25. Ceophloeus pileatus. Pileated Woodpecker. 



Personally I have never observed this species during the breed- 

 ing season, but as several specimens have been taken during the 

 early part of August, it doubtless breeds sparingly]. 



26. Melanerpes erythrocephalus. Red-headed Woodpecker. 



Rare. A pair was observed at Dundaff, June, 1895, and a single 

 bird near Montrose in June, 1896. 



27. Colaptes auratus. Flicker. 

 Abundant everywhere. 



28. Antrostomus vociferus. Whip-poor-will. 



Very rare, having been only once or twice noted in low, secluded 

 spots. 



29. Chordeiles virginianus. Night Hawk. 



Very common, collecting in large flocks during August. 



30. Chaetura pelagica. Chimney Swift. 



Abundant, breeding throughout the county. It has, however, 

 adapted itself to the ways of civilization and has never been ob- 

 served nesting in hollow trees. 



31. Trochilus colubris. Ruby-throated Humming-bird. 



Common, both about houses and in the deep woods. 



32. Tyrannus tyrannus. Kingbird. 

 Abundant and generally distributed. 



33. Myiarchus crinitus. Great-crested Flycatcher. 



Tolerably common throughout the county. 



34. Sayornis phoebe. Phoebe. 



Abundant everywhere in the open country. 



35. Contopus virens. Wood Pewee. 



Fully as abundant as the preceding species, but confined to or- 

 chards and woodlands. 



36. Empidonax minimus. Least Flycatcher. 



Very common and universally distributed during the breeding 



season. 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



37. Otocoris alpestris praticola. Prairie Horned Lark. 



Although this species has been recorded during the breeding sea- 

 son by Messrs. Dwight and Parke at Athens, Bradford County, at 

 Williamsport (Koch), and in Elk County (Baily), it has never, to 

 my knowledge, been observed in this county until the summer of 

 1896, when a bird was noted July 6, in a grassy meadow near 

 Dimock. 



38. Cyanocitta cristata. Blue Jay. 

 Abundant, especially in woody situations. 



39. Corvus americanus. American Crow. 



Abundant. 



40. Dolichonyx oryzivorus. Bobolink. 



A common breeder, but decidedly local in its distribution, al- 

 though isolated pairs may be found in all suitable localities through- 

 out the county. At Dundaff, a small village in the southeastern 

 part, at an elevation of 1,620 feet, upward of two dozen pairs were 

 found breeding in June, 1895, while a small colony generally nests 

 in some upland meadows near Dimock. 



It may also be of interest to note that two pairs of this species 

 were observed at Waymart, Wayne County, Pennsylvania, June 

 22, 1895, and four pairs near Sugarloaf Mountain on the western 

 border of the same county, June 23, 1897. 



41. Molothrus ater. Cowbird. 

 Kather common. 



42. Agelaius phoeniceus. Red-winged Blackbird. 



Locally common, breeding plentifully on the marshes of several 

 lakes near Dimock, where I have taken fresh eggs as late as the first 

 of July. 



43. Sturnella magna. Meadow Lark. 



Very common and generally distributed. 



44. Icterus galbula. Baltimore Oriole. 



Common about houses and generally distributed, apparently in- 

 creasing in abundance. 



45. Quiscalus quiscula aeneus. Bronzed (?) Crackle. 



While on a collecting trip with Mr. Witmer Stone in the north- 

 western part of the county, June 22, 1897, a single Grackle was ob- 

 served, presumably Q. q. aeneus. Unfortunately neither of us was 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



able to secure the bird ; but from its actions it was undoubtedly 

 nesting in the neighborhood. This record seems interesting as being 

 the first evidence, to my knowledge, of the occurrence of any species 

 of Grackle in Susquehanna County. 



46. Carpodacus purpureus. Purple Finch. 



Not uncommon, both in the woodland and in the open country 

 about houses, where its pretty song may be heard from April to the 

 middle of July. 



47. Passer domesticus. English Sparrow. 



This pest, everywhere rapidly increasing in numbers, and now 

 resident in almost every town and village of any size throughout the 

 county, bids fair to soon drive away all the old feathered songsters 

 from our gardens and orchards. 



48. Spinus tristis. American Goldfinch. 



Abundant everywhere. 



49. Poocaetes gramineus. Vesper Sparrow. « 



The most abundant and generally distributed of the sparrows 

 during the breeding season ; in fact, one of the characteristic birds 

 of the open country. 



50. Ammodramus sandwichensis savanna. Savannah Sparrow. 



Very common and widely distributed in all suitable localities, 

 especially in the northern and eastern portions of the county. 



51. Ammodramus savannarum passerinus. Grasshopper Sparrow. 

 Common in dry uplands. 



52. Spizella socialis. Chipping Sparrow. 

 Abundant. 



53. Spizella pusilla. Field Sparrow. 



Abundant in open fields and overgrown pastures. 



54. Junco hyemalis. Slate-colored Junco. 



Formerly common at Elk Mountain, from 2,000 feet up, and gen- 

 erally confined to open fields, but now quite rare. Its occurrence in 

 the rest of the county is limited to two records: First, a single pair 

 shot June 26, 1896, near Dimock, and secondly, another pair 

 engaged in constructing a nest near the same locality, April 24, 

 1897. One would expect to find this species in the elevated plateau 

 land of Ararat township, on the eastern border of the county, a 

 locality well suited to its habits; but on a visit to this region in 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



June, 1897, I did not meet with a single individual, although it was 

 found three miles to the eastward, on Sugarloaf Mountain, in Wayne 

 County. 



55. Melospiza fasciata. Song Sparrow. 



Abundant everywhere, except in the deep woods. 



56. Melospiza georgiana. Swamp Sparrow. 

 Rather common in low swampy situations. 



57. Pipilo erythrophthalmus. Towhee. 



Tolerably common in scrubby fields and clearings. 



58. Zamelodia ludoviciana. Rose-breasted Grosbeak. 



This species seems to be very rare, having only been observed 

 once during the breeding season, when a fine male was shot June 22, 

 1896, in an old clearing near Dimock. 



59. Passerina cyanea. Indigo Bird. 



Abundant, especially in briar patches and clearings, where the 

 males may be heard singing all day long. 



60. Piranga erythromelas. Scarlet Tanager. 

 Very common throughout the deep woods. 



61. Petrochelidon lunifrons. Cliff Swallow. 



Common, but rather local in its distribution, and generally found 

 breeding in colonies. It has of late years been gradually decreasing 

 in abundance. 



62. Chelidon erythrogaster. Barn Swallow. 



More abundant and generally distributed throughout the county 

 than the preceding species. 



63. Tachycineta bicolor. Tree Swallow. 



Rare. Scattered pairs occasionally seen in suitable localities. 



64. Ampelis cedrorum. Cedar Bird. 



Common summer resident, occurring in large flocks during June 

 and again in September. 



65. Vireo olivaceus. Red-eyed Vireo. 



Very abundant, both in the shade trees about houses and in the 

 deep woods. 



66. Vireo gilvus. Warbling Vireo. 



A nest with three young, collected by Mr. Stone and myself near 

 Milford, June 22, 1897, is the only record which I have of its 

 occurrence in Susquehanna County. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



67. Vireo flavifrons. Yellow-throated Vireo. 



Not uncommon, being frequently met with during the breeding 

 season, especially in the deep woods. 



68. Vireo solitarius. Blue-headed Vireo. 



Common in the deep forests throughout the greater portion of 

 the county, one or more pairs being usually met with in all 

 the larger pieces of woodland. Two adults with young just out 

 of the nest and nut yet able to fly were observed July 8, 1896, 

 about two miles south of Springville. 



69. Mniotilta varia. Black and White Warbler. 



Tolerably common in second growth woods and clearings. 



70. Compsothlypis americana. Parula Warbler. 



Not uncommon, and several times met with in woods where there 

 is apparently no usnea moss. It would be interesting to know what 

 the bird constructs its nest of in such localities. 



71. Dendroica aestiva. Yellow Warbler. 

 Common throughout the open country. 



72. Dendroica caerulescens. Black-throated Blue Warbler. 



Abundant and generally distributed in the deep hemlock woods, 

 being, perhaps, the commonest representative of its genus. 



73. Dendroica maculosa. Magnolia Warbler. 



Another very common species, almost as plentiful as the preced- 

 ing, but like it coufined to the deep hemlock woods. 



74. Dendroica pennsylvanica. Chestnut-sided Warbler. 



Common, but confined to the clearings and tracts of 'scrub.' A 

 nest together with the brood of young birds was discovered June 27, 

 1896, in a small orchard within a few yards of the house. 



75. Dendroica blackburniae. Blackburnian Warbler. 



Abundant wherever there is a thick growth of hemlock. It 

 would be hard to say whether this species or D. caerulescens is the 

 more plentiful, for as Dr. Dwight remarks, there are " places where 

 both might almost be said to swarm." 



76. Dendroica virens. Black-throated Green Warbler. 



Also abundant in the deep hemlock forests, but hardly as plenti- 

 ful as the preceding species. 



77. Seiurus aurocapillus. Oven-bird. 

 Abundant everywhere. 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



78. Seiurus noveboracensis. Water Thrush. 



This typical Canadian species seems to be decidedly rare, the only 

 record for the county being one immature female shot June 26, 1896. 

 This bird was secured in a dense swamp containing a sparse growth 

 of rhododendron, and had evidently been out of the nest but a short 

 time. 



79. Geothlypis trichas. Maryland Yellow-throat. 



Very common, but confined to clearings and open grounds, and 

 seldom noted in the deep woods. 



80. Sylvania canadensis. Canadian Warbler. 



Another species belonging to the Canadian fauna, and one almost 

 as abundant as D. caerulescens. It is found throughout the county, 

 in the lower and damper portions of the deep forests, generally, but 

 not always, where there is a thick growth of hemlock. 



Personally I have never detected the Redstart (Setophaga ruticilla) 

 during the breeding season in this county, but during the latter part 

 of June, 1895, I found it to be very common in portions of Wayne 

 County and at Lake Teedyuskung, Pike County. 



81. Galeoscoptes carolinensis. Catbird. 



A common species in the open country. 



82. Harporhynchus rufus. Brown Thrasher. 



Rather rare in the central and northern parts of the county, in- 

 creasing in abundance toward the southern border. Observed only 

 in scrubby fields and clearings. 



83. Troglodytes aedon. House Wren. 

 Tolerably common about houses. 



[84. Troglodytes hyemalis. Winter Wren. 



Very rare. As previously remarked, the song has been detected 

 several times during the early summer in the deep hemlock woods 

 near Dimock, and leads me to think that it probably breeds spa- 

 ringly in the wildest portions of the county]. 



The Brown Creeper, Certhia famUiaris americana, although re- 

 corded by Messrs. Dwight, Baily and Stone from Sullivan, Elk and 

 Luzerne Counties respectively, has never been observed by me in 

 Susquehanna County during the breeding season, and if it does 

 occur, must be regarded as a very rare summer resident. 



85. Sitta carolinensis. White-breasted Nuthatch. 



Very common, both in the woods and in the open country. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



86. Parus atricapillus. Black-capped Chickadee. 



Abundant in the woodland. 



87. Turdus mustelinus. Wood Thrush. 



A common species and generally confined to the deep woods. A 

 nest containing young nearly ready to fly was discovered, however, 

 June 18, 1895, situated in a young maple tree on the border of 

 the woods within a few rods of the house. The female bird was ex- 

 ceedingly tame, allowing approach within a foot of the nest, but 

 usually this species lacks much of the tameness and confidence 

 which so characterizes it in the more densely populated portions of 

 the country. 



88. Turdus fuscescens. Wilson's Thrush. 



Very abundant in dense, swampy woodland throughout the 

 county. Owing to its shyness and the inaccessibility of the locali- 

 ties which it generally inhabits, the bird is very difficult to 

 approach, but its presence is always betrayed by its wild bell-like 

 notes, which may be heard at all hours of the day, but which sound 

 the sweetest in the early morning and about sunset. It is almost 

 impossible to imitate the song on paper, but the syllables " ta-weel'ah, 

 ta-weel'ah, twil'ah, twil'ah," mentioned in Baird, Brewer and 

 Ridgway's North American Bird* (Vol. I, p. 9), convey to my ear 

 the most accurate description of it which I have seen. After careful 

 observation and study, I am prepared to say that this is one of the 

 most plentiful of the Turdidce in Susquehanna County, surpassing 

 in abundance both T. mustelinus and 'pallasii. 



89. Turdus aonalaschkae pallasii. Hermit Thrush. 



Tolerably common wherever the hemlock remains uncut, but 

 hardly as plentiful as T. mustelinus, being absent in many of the 

 localities where the latter is comparatively common. I have, on 

 many occasions, however, observed the two species singing almost 

 side by side, and fully agree with other observers that the song of 

 the Hermit is considerably superior to that of the Wood Thrush, 

 possessing as Dr. Dwight remarks, " a ringing sweetness that is only 

 matched in part by the latter." 



90. Merula migratoria. American Robin. 



Common everywhere throughout the county, except in the deep 

 woods. 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



91. Sialia sialis. Bluebird. 



Rather common, but gradually becoming less plentiful as a sum- 

 mer resident. During the spring, summer and autumn of 1895, not 

 a single individual was observed anywhere in the county, but during 

 June and July, 1896, several broods were noted, while in 1897 the 

 species was quite common again. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



February J. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Twenty-two persons present. 



February 8. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Twenty-nine persons present. 



February 15. 



J. Cheston Morris, M. D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-six persons present. 



A paper entitled "Errant Frnstules of Eunotia major," by T. 

 Chalkley Palmer, was presented for publication'. 



February 22. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Eighty persons present. 

 Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



"A New Weasel from New Mexico," by C. M. Barker and 

 T. D. A. Cockerel 1. 



" On the Genus Halia of Risso," by W. H. Dall. 



" Description of a new Tethys (Aplysia)," by E. J. Letson. 



Under the auspices of the Anthropological Section the subject of 

 Idiocy was discussed as follows: — 



Anatomically, by William G. Spiller, M. D. 

 Physiologically, by Charles K. Mills, M. D. 

 Psychologically, by Prof. Lightner Witmer. 

 Educationally, by Martin W. Barr, M. D. (No abstract). 

 James Lane Pennypacker was elected a member. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : — 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



VOLCANIC ROCKS OF MESOZOIC AGE IN PENNSYLVANIA. 

 BY E. GOLDSMITH. 



My petrographical and geological observations have convinced 

 me that nearly all so called ''trap" is of volcanic origin. Sup- 

 porting proofs may be found in many localities near Philadelphia 

 such as the Haycock Mountain, New Hope and the railroad cuts 

 north and south of Quakertown in Bucks County, Pa. The richest 

 field of observation, however, is the hill four miles north of Potts- 

 town, Montgomery County. The various outcrops of the volcanic 

 rocks may there be studied to greater advantage than in the other 

 localities. 



One hundred and fifty acres of the top and side of the hill now 

 form a public park, much of the rubbish and underbrush being, 

 therefore, removed. A series of volcanic terraces of Mesozoic age 

 has been thus uncovered and is, I think, worth recording. These 

 terraces were formed by four distinct outflows of lava. The four, 

 five or six sided columns of greenstone-basalt can be seen on the 

 edge of each step from the first outpour. The first outflow had a 

 ran<re wider in extent than the others ; the second was less, to all 

 present appearances; the third eruption was decidedly less great, 

 whilst the fourth, the top of the hill, exceeded the second and 

 third in mass of material. The greatest difference between the 

 levels of the various outpours is seen between the third and the 

 fourth flow. The whole extent of these terraces is overshadowed 

 by a grove of trees and carpeted with grass and other small plants, 

 an illustration would, therefore, be indistinct. 



A strictly scientific examination of the terraces would involve a 

 survey, the removal of rubbish and sod down to the lava and the 

 determination of the various levels with instruments of precision. 



The terraces are situated on the western side of the park. The 

 level forms a plateau on which a fine iron structure has been built 

 to a height of some twenty or more feet above the trees, an obser- 

 vation tower, from the upper platform of which a grand view of 

 part of the Schuylkill valley can be obtained. Near this point, in 

 a pile of debris, the first indications of a devitrified obsidian or tach- 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



ilyte were found. On a later visit I observed a slab of about tbree 

 feet in length and about six inches tbick imbedded in a bank of 

 debris of similar material; many indications of the volcanic rock 

 being scattered about. The rock is jet black, dull, very fine grained, 

 with distinct conchoidal fracture, the edges becoming very sharp ; 

 the hardness is a little less than quartz. The per centage of silica 

 was 57.1. Under the microscope was observed a microperlitic 

 structure. All attempts to secure a photograph of this structure 

 failed. 



A second variety of tachilyte was found, but not so abundantly as 

 the first. It is also deep black and very fine grained, very thin 

 white streaks or lines being irregularly distributed through the 

 mass. Under the microscope, the thin section showed again that 

 the essential material consists of devitrified glass darkened by an 

 extremely fine powder of what seemed to be magnetite. The white 

 lines, suggestive of crystals, appeared when magnified as elongated 

 globular forms filled with a partially crystalline substance of indis- 

 tinct crystalline forms. The globules consist of subcrystalline mate- 

 rial, filling what was originally gas pores. A section showed also 

 the fluid structure. With very strong, light, numerous crystallites 

 were observed. 



A third variety of devitrified glass has a yellow-gray color. This 

 tachilyte is very hard and so peculiarly splintery, sharp edged and 

 curved, that no fragment could be secured with the hammer from 

 which to grind a section, the lapidary having to cut the plates for 

 the purpose. The mineral is very fine grained and even, some 

 specimens having a yellow edge apparently of the same hardness as 

 the general mass. Where water had affected the material there is 

 a thin rusty coating. 



With ordinary light, a thin section shows beneath the microscope, 

 that the mass of rock is made up of largely predominating fine 

 ash-like granules interspersed with minute fragments of crystalline 

 material, the whole cemented together by devitrified glass. 1 



1 About six years ago, I found a specimen of rock near Rockhill Station, in 

 Bucks County, and determined it under the name of Felsite. It seems to me, 

 that Felsite, Eurite, Petrosilex and Tachilyte are all the same in composition 

 structure and origin. All these rocks seem to belong to the glassy lavas, and 

 are, therefore, in all probability, of volcanic origin. Since the inner structure 

 and mineral composition should decide the name of a rock, it is thought best 

 to call this, and all three varieties, Tachilyte, because the principal mass is 

 devitrified obsidian, as has already been suggested by several British petro- 

 graphers, and, since Breithaupt's name seems to have the priority, it should, 

 I think, be retained by geologists. 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Eastward from the upper plateau of the terrace is an open area 

 devoid of plant life. It is called by the people the " Great Ringers," 

 Plate II, in contradistinction to the " Little Ringers," which are 

 situated on east side of the park. The outcrop consists of rocks of 

 various sizes, from a hand specimen to those weighing thirty tons or 

 more. They are essentially gabbro-phonolite, as I stated in a com- 

 munication made several years ago to the Academy. I then an- 

 nounced the mineralogical composition of these rocks to be: 

 plagioclastic feldspar, sanidine, diallage, augite, magnetite; ferrite 

 also was occasionally present. These rocks are very tough and 

 close-grained. Even a thin section has a considerable cohesion and 

 does not break in boiling in spirits of turpentine, unless the outer 

 weathered gray crust be taken. This is brittle when thus tested. 



Plate I illustrates a small section of this singular rock formation. 

 The outcrop has precisely the appearance of what has been called an 

 Einsturzkrater 2 or collapsed crater. The crater in its present condi- 

 tion is but a fraction of what it was formerly. Its former horizon can 

 still be traced ; vegetation has gradually encroached upon it and, if 

 not prevented, will cover the entire tract which is now bare. The 

 outlines of volcanic craters are extremely irregular everywhere, 

 whether the walls are still standing or have fallen in. The contour 

 may be traced, however, in either case, the rocks themselves being 

 the guides. It can be shown that in the building up of the eleva- 

 tion, various phases of volcanic action must have taken place to ac- 

 complish that which ultimately resulted. It seems probable, as has 

 been suggested, I think by Geike, and even observed by him and 

 others, that the phonolites are formed on the upper neck of the vol- 

 cano, and that the basalts are liquid lava poured out from some 

 point along the side of the crater. Similar relations appear to have 

 existed in the building up of the Pottstown Hill. The metallic 

 sounds emitted from the rocks, when struck with a hammer, are of 

 great interest to visitors, and both superstition and poetry are in- 

 cited thereby. The phonolites of this locality however, lose their 

 ringing property when broken. It seems probable that this effect is 

 due to the production of innumerable cracks through the whole 

 mass, just as a metallic bell or a glass jar loses the property of 

 ringing when cracked. There are, however, some phonolites, as 

 those occurring north of Wilmington, Delaware, and on Haycock 



2 Carl Vogt's Geologie, Band II, page 330. 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



93 



Mountain, in Bucks County, Pennsylvania, which retain the metal- 

 lic sound when broken. 



The Little Ringers, as they are termed, are essentially the same 

 as those described above. The outcrop, thickly covered by trees, is 

 situated about a quarter of a mile east of the others, and may be an 

 indication of a separate neck of a crater. The outcrop appears 

 small because the trees have taken possession of the surroundings. 



There is probably more 

 of it than can be seen 

 at present. If not pre- 

 vented, the trees will 

 cover the Little Ringers 

 in the course of time as 

 certainly as nine-tenths 

 of the whole area of the 

 hill is now covered. 



Not far from the Rail- 

 way Station on the hill, 

 borings for water were 

 made without result. 

 Some of the rock frag- 

 ments brought to the 

 surface indicated a bed 

 of amygdaloid of a pale 

 grayish color; the thick- 

 ness of the bed was not 

 ascertained and is at 

 present unknown. 

 Specimens of amygda- 

 loid are found on the 

 surface, one of which 

 had the almond shaped 

 nodules of more than an 

 inch in length and protruding from the rock nearly half an inch. 

 An interesting specimen of amygdaloid with an uncommon fluidal 

 texture is represented by the figure 1. It gives a fair idea of the 

 specimen, the lighter shade above and the darker below being 

 sharply defined. The fluidal texture is usually observable only in 

 thin sections under the microscope, but in this case, we have it ma- 

 croscopically. When magnified the thin section showed a great 



Fig. 1. 

 Amygdaloid showing fluidal texture. 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



many small blisters or former cavities filled with a still whiter ma- 

 terial than the honeycombed mass in general. The lighter part of 

 the mass contained but little magnetite, while the dark portion was 

 filled with this iron ore. As plutonic rocks do not possess any 

 amygdaloid texture, I have concluded that those found in the Potts- 

 town park are of volcanic origin, that they were once a fluid lava 

 and that the rock masses as they appear are the remnants of a col- 

 lapsed crater. 



Microscopic examination of thin sections gave the following re- 

 sult : — 



The infiltrated material in the former gas cavities appeared by 

 reflected light as white, opaque, granular masses, which could not 

 be resolved even when magnified to about three hundred diameters 

 into any distinct crystalline form. Nevertheless, that it possessed 

 crystalline structure is indicated by its aspect in polarized light. 

 I diagnose the material as feldspatic. With ordinary light and with 

 the aid of an Abbe condenser the rock mass showed a faint green 

 augite ; the particles, very finely divided, often appeared together 

 in groups, and these small greenish individuals having a greater 

 refractive index than the feldspar, were, in consequence, more con- 

 spicuous than the greater mass of the rock. In polarized light the 

 feldspar appeared to be essentially orthoclase, some sanidine being 

 also present. This volcanic rock may be compared with the amyg- 

 daloidal basalt of Schlachenwerth, near Carlsbad, Bohemia. 



A general description of the rocks on the eastern side of the hill 

 is also of special interest. The enormous size of some of the sections 

 of basaltic columns found there, some undoubtedly in situ, others 

 removed to alower level, is such as to cause surprise. These basalts 

 are mostly six-sided, and as the result of weathering, somewhat 

 rounded on their edges ; some are perfectly flat and level, others are 

 found with a concavity varying in depth, while some have been seen 

 witli a wavy surface. Some of the columns do not seem to split 

 transversely, but stretch their bulky length some twenty feet or more 

 along the ground. One has been named the Bullfrog by the natives. 

 The diameters of the six-sided sections of the basalt vary. I meas- 

 ured some which were ten, eleven or fifteen feet across. These 

 gigantic illustrations of mountain-making may indicate a peculiar 

 geologic condition wherein a long continued internal heat, or possi- 

 bly a slow cooling dependent upon external causes, prevented the 

 contraction of the general mass into smaller columns such as are so 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



often found occurring in the Tertiary and more recent periods. I 

 confess that nowhere in ray travels, either in this country or in 

 Europe, did I observe such colossi of basaltic columns. When 

 in their entirety they must have been giant structures in the strict- 

 est sense of the phrase. An interesting and very suggestive rock 

 received the name of the Haystack from the owner of the place. 

 Plate III represents the same as viewed from the southern side. 

 As the illustration indicates, the side to the right is convex, and if 

 one stands where he can see the convexity only, a similarity to a 

 haystack or the section of one may suggest itself. 



On close examination I found that the inclined position of the 

 rock was due to tilting, and that formerly it must have stood erect ; 

 it can also be shown that the rocks to the left were parts of the 

 same, and, if the losses through erosion are also taken into account, 

 the Haystack had, in all probability, another outline than the one 

 which it now presents. It seems clear to me that this tall object 

 was originally triangular in form, that it is the last remnant of a 

 crater wall standing there almost separated from the other parts of 

 the crater which lie to the north, northwest and west, while the 

 southern side has entirely collapsed. 



Whoever has closely observed the structure of recent volcanoes, 

 is aware that if it were possible to make a vertical section of the 

 crater wall, that section would necessarily be triangular in form. 

 If it were possible to obtain it, a birds eye view would render the 

 significance of the aspect more convincing. A photograph of the 

 crater wall-section from the west side, Plate IV, represents it fairly 

 well. The camera stood about half way up on the opposite slope, 

 a position which accounts for the depression shown in the central 

 fore ground of the picture. The part from the standing rock to the 

 left, above, is corroded away, plant life here, as everywhere, having 

 doubtless contributed its share toward the destruction of these rocks. 

 The huge blocks seen in front of the tall section, are those which I 

 believe to have been formerly united with the so-called Haystack to 

 form the triangular part of the crater wall. Everybody who has 

 paid the least attention to the study of rocks is acquainted with 

 their continual disintegration, effected by heat and moisture work- 

 ing inward from the exposed surfaces of even the hardest and tough- 

 est rocks. The tall crater wall-section shows even now a great 

 many cracks, especially on its convex side, and it seems evident 

 that it will not require many years to complete its destruction. Its 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



present inclined position will probably cause the fall of the upper 

 part first, thus obliterating another proof of what the structure was 

 in former times. Professor Oscar Carter said, when I showed him 

 the object in question and pointed out its significance: " A very 

 suggestive specimen, what else could it represent? It appears to be 

 a last remnant of the wall of a crater." Of course, it requires some 

 little imagination to see such a connection, but the principal empha- 

 sis is laid on the surroundings and upon the cumulative proofs of 

 the volcanic rocks themselves. 



From the Haystack a narrow winding path in a general north- 

 easterly direction leads to an immense platform of basalt known as 

 Table Rock. Of this no photograph was taken, in order to spare 

 the remaining plate for the picture of the entrance to the cave. In 

 Plate V the entrance of what the people call the cave, is plainly 

 noticeable among the huge and partly broken rocks. The large 

 block lying on the left shows the triangular contour of the cross cut 

 of a crater wall in a manner sufficiently characteristic. The col- 

 lapsing process and the gradual breaking up of the great masses of 

 rock are at least partially recognizable in the illustration. To ob- 

 tain a general idea of what that cave really is, however, one must 

 ascend the debris surrounding the great wall of massive blocks, 

 climb upward along a rustic step-walk, mount upon the top of the 

 wall and gaze down into the cavity. The deep kettle-shaped cavity 

 is formed by the rock masses which are more or less split in various 

 directions, but the greater number are vertically cleft. That this is 

 an ancient crater I have not the slightest doubt ; that the formation 

 has never been a cave in the geological sense of the word is clear 

 from the fact that volcanic rocks never form hollow domes. It is, 

 however, possible to creep into the cauldron from the side entrance, 

 and boys are occasionally seen sliding or climbing down into the 

 hollow space from above. 



Volcanic craters vary a great deal in diameter ; this one is small, 

 its inside measure amounts, I think, to not much more than forty 

 feet, and in its depth somewhat less. Since the wall rocks of this 

 crater are cracked vertically and in the inner parts moved toward 

 the centre, it is self-evident that the inner diameter must have been 

 greater in the past. Here, as in other parts of the hill, the trees are 

 doing their work steadily, breaking the larger blocks into smaller 

 ones ; the decay is continually going on, and although the entire 

 sleeping crater is still standing where it was built by the ancient 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



fluid lavas of the Mesozoic era, it is only a question of time when 

 this one also will have been disrupted and obliterated like its an- 

 cient colleagues of the vicinity. 



Ancient craters necessarily decay and crumble away just as any 

 other exposure of rock will do. It is well-known to those versed in 

 the special literature of the subject, that collapsed craters have been 

 found and recognized in Europe, and it might reasonably be ex- 

 pected that in time the discovery of similar phenomena existing here 

 would result from careful observation. 



In the literature of the Second Geological Survey of Pennsylva- 

 nia nothing is mentioned of the Pottstown Hill, except that Trap 

 occurs there. But that an entire crater of Mesozoic age is still in- 

 tact at that spot nobody seems to have even guessed ; at least no 

 geologist appears to have looked at it, much less to have explored 

 or described it. That the deep cauldron is an ancient crater, I am 

 fully convinced. 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



THE PETRIFACTION OF FOSSIL BONES. 

 BY E. GOLDSMITH. 



The Port Kennedy limestone quarry, situated on the Schuylkill 

 River, in Montgomery Co., Pa., became noted some twenty-five years 

 ago for a deposit of fossil bones which were studied, in part, by Pro- 

 fessors Joseph Leidy and Edw. D. Cope. Recently a fresh interest 

 in the subject was awakened, and Mr. Mercer, the well-known archae- 

 ologist, superintended some further diggings, especially in the hope 

 of finding human remains in the fissure, the receptacle of the fossils, 

 in the Silurian limestone. 



Mr. Mercer's statement that a considerable part of those fossil 

 bones crumbled, or, as he expressed it, " fell to a mealy powder" 

 when touched, attracted my attention. In order to ascertain into 

 what form and composition the bone-phosphate had been changed, 

 I visited the locality and saw the peculiar position of the fissure 

 filled with the moist debris derived from the overlying Mesozoicred 

 sandstone. The mealy matter above referred to was easily found 

 because there was more of it than solid fossil bones; although it is 

 astonishing how many fragments of bones were in view, a sight de- 

 lightful to the paleontologist. 



I selected for my investigation a curved bone, apparently a trans- 

 verse section of a scapula of perhaps one of the larger cats, about f 

 of an inch thick in the middle and tapering toward both ends. 

 Clean material could easily be dug out with a knife. On drying 

 the sample it appears as a yellowish, fine sand of even grain : Mr. 

 Mercer's fossil bone meal. This fine grained mealy material was 

 certainly at one time, a portion of a bone ; but its composition is no 

 longer calcium phosphate, a chemical analysis proving that phos- 

 phoric acid was almost or entirely absent. The reaction for phos- 

 phoric acid with the ammonium molybdate solution was very slight, 

 there seemed to be but a small fraction of one per cent, of the cal- 

 cium phosphate left in the specimen. It was further ascertained 

 that this so-called bone-meal is now essentially calcium carbonate 

 containing some magnesia. Is this material really amorphous as it 

 appears under ordinary conditions? A slide, prepared in the ordi- 




]898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



nary way with balsam indicated beneath the microscope that nearly 

 every particle had crystallized into a mineral. Groups of three or 

 six crystals were recognized with a low power objective. In polar- 

 ized light some of the crystals showed extinction parallel to the 

 longer axis. 



A pile of rubbish, which had been dug out of the bone-bed-fissure 

 from which Professors Mercer and Cope had selected all that was 

 worth having, contained some bone fragments in which the cellular 

 structure of bone could be observed and also the gradual transition 

 into the mealy condition or complete metamorphosis of bone phos- 

 phate into a mineral. I think a better proof could hardly be given 

 of the gradual metamorphic change that has taken place in that 

 locality. It seems to me that this fissure, which is V-shaped, had 

 no outlet for the water which soaked the mixture of bones, ferrugi- 

 nous clay, twigs, fragments of sandstone, etc. and that the oppor- 

 tunity for mutual chemical dissociation was favorable to that effect. 

 That carbon dioxide along with the water effected the change from 

 the organic to the mineral in this case as in many others, scarcely 

 requires demonstration. The phosphoric acid seemed to have been 

 transposed and- reunited with ferric oxide and with alumina to form 

 vivianite and similar minerals, as indications of the presence of these 

 species were noticed in the pile of debris near the bone deposit. In 

 order to give some further proof of the almost complete change of 

 the bone substance from the chemical standpoint, I endeavored to 

 find the quantity of the carbonic acid gas volumetrically. I ob- 

 tained by two measurements the average of 24.045 cubic centimeters 

 at 0°C. temperature and 760 millimeters pressure of carbonic acid 

 gas from 100 milligrammes of the mineral. This reduced to mass 

 equals 47.23 per cent. It is evident that this rather high result must 

 have a cause. Either there is another gas, or there is another oxide 

 beside the lime. On determining the bases a large quantity of 

 magnesia was found. The following is the result of the analysis: 



CaO 30.39 per cent. 



MgO 20.83 per cent. 



C0 2 47.23 per cent. 



Insoluble 1.79 per cent. 



100.24 



The insoluble part consisted mostly of sand, a trace of lime phos- 

 phate and oxide of iron. If these small quantities of phosphoric 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



acid, lime and oxide of iron would have been determined quantita- 

 tively, the general approximate result would not have differed much 

 from the general result obtained. However, the differences appear 

 when we recompute the oxides into salts such as they really are. 

 We obtain about : 



Calcium carbonate 54.27 per cent. 



Magnesium carbonate 43.74 per cent. 



Insoluble residue 1.79 per cent. 



99.80 



From these numerical results it is plainly seen that the material 

 is the mineral dolomite. Since bone phosphate contains generally 

 but little magnesia, it may be assumed that this latter oxide must 

 have been added when the transformation of the bone into the min- 

 eral took place. 



Whether such a metamorphoses had ever been observed before is 

 unknown to the writer at the present time. It was unknown to a 

 number of chemists consulted, and, consequently, the conclusion was 

 reached that all the possible metamorphic changes from the organic 

 to the mineral kingdom may not have been observed. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE HERPETOLOGY OF SAO PAULO, BRAZIL.— I. 



BY DR. H. VON IHERING. 



In the State Museum under my administration, I have recently 

 arranged and studied collections of great scientific value illustra- 

 tive of the fauna of the State of Sao Paulo. 



Of the collections made in Brazil by T. Natterer, the mammals 

 and birds have been studied by the naturalist Pelzeln, of the Vienna 

 Museum, forming an important contribution to our knowledge of 

 the fauna of Sao Paulo. Of the other groups of vertebrates but 

 little is known. For example, our largest fresh water fish, the jahu, 

 has not been described. 1 



Concerning the reptiles and amphibians of Sao Paulo very little 

 is known. Boettger has mentioned a few species. 



In the present paper I offer a list of the reptiles of Sao Paulo, ex- 

 cluding snakes, of which, as well as of frogs, I have lately received 

 many species not yet determined. Of the following list two species 

 only, Prionodactylus and Heterodactylus, are not represented in the 

 collection of the Museum Paulista. 



OROCODILICffi. 



1. Caiman latirostris Dand. 



CHELYDID^. 



2. Hydromedusa maximiliani Gray. 



3. Platemys spixii D. & B. 



4. Platemys wagleri D. & B. 



This species was found at Piracicaba. The plastron is red. The 

 species seems to be a Platemys and not a Hydraspis. 



TESTTJDINLDJE. 



5. Testudo tabulata Walb. 



Called "Taboti."' I have had a living example, found in the 

 woods of this country. 



*I propose for this fish the name Paulicea jahu. A description may be 

 found appended to this paper. 



2 0. Boettger, Ueber eine neue Eidechse ans Brasilien, Bericht d. Senkenb. 

 nat. Gesellsch., Frankfurt a. M. 1875-'76, pag. 140-143 and PI. ; also Boettger, 

 Katalog der Keptilien Sammlung im Museum zu' Frankfurt a. M., 1893. 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



GECKONID^E. 



6. Hemidactylus mabouia Mor. 



Common at Santos, and also in the interior, as for instance at 

 Santa Rita and Piracicaba. It is found in houses and also in the 

 forests. It does not seem that this distribution has been effected by 

 man's agency. In the large city of Sao Paulo I have never seen 

 this Gecko. 



IGUANIDJE. 



7. Tropidurus hispidus Spix.s 

 Common at Sorocaba. 



8. Enyalius catenatus Wied. 



There are two forms in Sao Paulo. One of them may be the true 

 catenatus or a closely allied species, having the disposition of the 

 spots and yellow marks somewhat irregular, not existing in all 

 forms as seen in the figures of Spix (Plates XI and XIII). The 

 second form, which I call variety paulista, has more affinity with E. 

 iheringi, but the position of the nostril is nearer to the end of the 

 snout than to the orbit, quite as in catenatus, to which the tibia shows 

 analogy. A dark spot passes from the superciliary region to the 

 upper lip. A series of alternating black spots is contained in the 

 obscure vertebral band. Two large yellow lateral bands exist as 

 well as in E. iheringi. This may be, therefore, a local variety of 

 iheringi, but differs in some characters. Moreover, the dark spots of 

 the face and of the extremities, especially of the lower legs, seem to 

 be characteristic of paulista, and wanting in iheringi. As I had 

 already doubts of the specific validity of iheringi, and as the new 

 variety is intermediate between iheringi and catenatus, I believe 

 that both are mere varieties of the latter. 



The description above given refers to the female, the male being 

 green without marks or spots, and not purplish as Boulenger says. 



Enyalius is not at all common and it will, therefore, be impossible 

 to obtain a sufficient representation for more conclusive studies 

 for some time. 



9. Anisolepis grilli Blgr. 

 Sao Paulo, St. Rita. 



10. Urostrophus vautieri I>. <V 1!. 

 Sao Paulo, St. Rita. 



3 1 have TV. torquatus Wied. from IJio de Janeiro, but that species seems to 

 be wanting in Sao Paulo. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



11. Polychrus acutirostris Spix. 



ANGUIDiE. 



12. Ophiodes striatus Spix. 

 Sao Paulo. 



13. Ophiodes intermedius Blgr. 

 Santos. 



14. Diploglossus fasciatus Gray. 

 Santos. 



TEIIDJE. 



15. Tupinambis teguixin L. 



This is the common " lagarto." It was by error that Boettger 

 mentioned T. nigropunctatus, from Sao Paulo, as this seems to be 

 the Amazonian form, as Boettger himself corrected. 



16. Tupinambis rufescens Giinth. 



I do not know the exact habitat of ourexample of this species, which 

 seems proper to the western parts of the interior. The number of 

 ventral scales is somewhat less than in Argentine examples. The 

 unicolored under side of the tail distinguishes this species very well 

 from the two others. 



17. Centropyx paulensis Bttg. 

 Tau bate. 



18. Ameiva surinamensis Laur. {Ameiva ameiva L.). 

 Santa Rita. 



19. Pantodactylus scbreibersii Wiegm. 



20. Prionodactylus quadrilineatus Bttg. 



21. Cercosaura ocellata Wagl. 

 Also from the State Parana. 



22. Placosoma cordylinum Tsch. 

 Santos, Raiz da Serra, Parana. 



23. Heterodactylus imbricatus Spix. 

 Serra da Mantiqueira. 



AMPHISB^NID.53. 



24. Amphisbaena alba L. 



25. Amphisbsena vermicularis Wagl. 



The number of the annuli of the body in the examples examined 

 is : 217, 223, 224, 247. The suture of the frontals in one is longer, 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



in two shorter than the suture between the prefrontals, and in one 

 subequal. There are only three upper labials, only one example 

 having four. Of course there is no reason for separating as species 

 the southern examples distinguished by the smaller number of 

 annuli and which only form a variety (darwini D. & B.) of the 

 well known species. 



It seems not at all justifiable to separate as " species " each example 

 with a somewhat aberrant conformation of the head plates. As is 

 the case with the anal pores (2 or 4), and the upper labials (3 or 4), 

 the ocular also may occasionally be divided. Amphisbcena angusti- 

 frons Cope, and mildei Peters, are abnormalities of this kind of Amph. 

 danvini, and not species. In one of my examples a suture in the 

 third upper labial forms on the one side an infra-ocular. 



26. Lipidosternon microcephalum Wagl. 

 Santos, Cubatad. 



SCINCITtJE. 



27. Mabuia dorsivittata Cope. 

 Sao Paulo. 



28. Mabuia agiiis Raddi. 

 Santos. 



29. Mabuia frenata Cope. 

 Piracicaba, St. Rita. 



This is the provisional list of the S. Paulo species. Hoplocercus 

 spinosus Fitz., mentioned by Boulenger from St. Paul, may have 

 come from another South American St. Paulo, not of this State, as 

 species of Crocodilurus and Neusticurus, do not occur here. 



I believe it necessary to make some observations on the distribu- 

 tion of the Lacertilians. Our list contains 24 species of which 2 

 (Centropyx and Prionodactyhis) as hitherto known only from Sao 

 Paulo, may be left out of the discussion. Three of these species: — 

 Tupinambis teguixin, Ophiodes striatus, Amphisbcena vermicidaris, 

 with var. darwini are of very broad distribution, extending from 

 north to south Brazil and to Paraguay ; eight of the species also occur 

 in Rio Grande do Sul including Enyalius catenatus with its varieties, 

 and Anisolepis grilli with its southern representative A. undulatus. 

 The genera Enyalius, Anisolepis, Urostrophus and Pantodactylus 

 represented in Rio Grande do Sul as well as in Sao Paulo, are not 

 known at this time from Paraguay. It seems to be the same with 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



Hemidactylus, Mabuia* and the species of Placosoma, Heterodactijlus, 

 etc. 



As future studies may modify these results it is sufficient here 

 merely to touch on the problems of distribution. In general we 

 have besides the more widely distributed forms to distinguish (1) 

 forms of the littoral of Brazil, and (2) forms of the Paraguay valley, 

 extending to Brazil. 



I have already mentioned the former group. We can subdivide 

 it into species developed principally to the north or to the south of 

 the tropic of Capricorn. Pantodactylus schreibersi has not hitherto 

 been found north of Sao Paulo; Diploglosms fasciatus is a Bahia 

 form, which I have received from Rio Janeiro and Santos. There 

 are many other species not represented in the interior of Sao Paulo, 

 which extend in the coast end of Santos and further southward. 

 Santos is situated on the ocean, S. Paulo 40 miles higher ; the 

 annual temperature of Santos, Iguape, being 21,5°, of S. Paulo 18,3° 

 centigrade. 



Thus it is quite natural that in the lowland between the ocean' 

 and the coast range, the Bahia fauna extends much farther south 

 than in the interior. It seems probable that Amphisbcena alba, Placo- 

 soma cordylinum, etc. are governed by the same condition, and this 

 will be much more evident from the numerous north Brazilian types 

 represented in our collections from Santos and Raiz da Serra. But 

 I can refer to another instructive instance: One of the character- 

 istic families of the subtropical zone is that of the Boidce, represented 

 in Bahia by four species of which only Epicrates cenchris does not 

 seem to reach Rio. Eunectes murinus is common in the interior of 

 S. Paulo and extends to the south of St. Catharina as I have ex- 

 amined a skin from Laguna. It is gradually disappearing, and was 

 once represented also in Rio Grande do Sul, as I believe Boa con- 

 strictor, not rare in the interior of Sao Paulo, does not occur in Rio 

 Grande do Sul. I very much doubt the record " Buenos Ayres" in 

 Boulenger's Catalogue. Species of Boa and Eunectes also occur in 

 Paraguay but they are perhaps not exactly determined, and may 

 be mere varieties of the eastern species. 



I have received specimens of Carollas caninus L. from Rio and 

 from Santos. 



4 This exists in St. Catharina and perhaps the north of Kio Grande do Sul, 

 but has not hitherto been found in Kio Grande. 



8 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Another fact on which I insist is the distribution of certain forms 

 from northern Brazil to the La Plata River, with the exclusion of 

 the Brazilian littoral. The genus Boa is an example of this. Ameiva 

 surinamensis does not exist in Rio Grande do Sul, but is said to live 

 in the La Plata region, also in Bahia and in Paraguay. In Sao 

 Paulo, however, this species is rare, and represented in the western 

 zone only. Here we have also Tupinambis rufescens, extending from 

 Mendoza to western Sao Paulo and Mabuia frenata, a Paraguayan 

 species, which we have received from St. Rita and Paracicaba. 



The species of Mabuia have an interesting distribution. As we 

 mentioned above, the Paraguayan species 31. frenata exists in the 

 western parts of Sao Paulo. From Santos I have 31. agilis Raddi, 

 known hitherto only from Rio and north of Rio, but on the central 

 highland we have 31. dorsivittata Cope, extending from Rio Grande 

 do Sul to Paraguay and to Sao Paulo. Tropidurus torquatus and 

 Polychrus acutirostris are Brazilian species, distributed from Bahia 

 to Sao Paulo and extending to Paraguay. It should be possible by 

 this time, to determine analytically the various regional compo- 

 nents of the diverse faunas. 



I have elsewhere discussed these problems in distribution, having 

 been the first to direct attention to them. In a paper on the distri- 

 bution of Ampullaria I have mentioned, that of the species common 

 to the Amazonian and San Francisco region, A. canaliculate does not 

 occur in St. Catharina, A. sordida being substituted for it. Also at 

 Rio Janeiro and in Sao Paulo there are other species of Ampullaria. 

 This is only one example from a great list of species. Glabaris 

 riograndensis, etc. are not represented in the River Parana system, 

 but are common in Rio Grande do Sul. Besides the species common 

 to the Parana system and to Rio Grande do Sul, there are others 

 which reached Rio Grande and the La Plata States by the Paraguay 

 system. This is now separated from the Amazonian system, but the 

 faunal identity demonstrates this separation to be of very recent 

 date. 



The distribution of neither the fresh-water nor of the land faunas 

 of Brazil can be at all understood without reference to these facts. 

 For instance there is Bulimus (Borus) oblongus Mull., a form 

 common in Rio Grande do Sul and the La Plata region, but also in 

 Bolivia, Guiana and Venezuela. From St. Catharina to Sao Paulo 

 and Rio where this species does not occur, B. ovatus Mull, is sub- 

 stituted for it, and north of Rio B. cantagallanus Rang takes its 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



place. From Sorocaba, Ypanema, etc. I have received B. ovalus, 

 but in Piracicaba and St. Rita in the western zone we have B. 

 oblongus, which is evidently an immigrant from Paraguay, Bolivia, 

 etc. with many of our other Bulimus and Helix. 



The same conditions are noticed in other land shells. We find 

 identity of species from Bahia with those of the La Plata and Rio 

 Grande do Sul, which are absent from St. Catharina northward on 

 the littoral. 5 



I believe finally it is time for European naturalists to take notice of 

 these studies. It is quite an unscientific method, to continue to con- 

 sider the neotropical region as a natural unity zoologically. This 

 region in later secondary and early tertiary time was formed by 

 coalescence of an Antarctic and a tropical element, the latter having 

 been in mesozoic time connected with Africa. It was only with 

 the pliocene period 6 a connection with North and Central America 

 was formed. The ancient West Indian bridge being only during 

 pleistocene time replaced by the present Isthmus of Panama. 



We know to-day the history of the South American mammals, 

 being able to separate the ancient endemic element from the pliocene 



5 My various papers referring to the distribution of the Brazilian fauna and 

 to the history of the neotropical region are as follows. The last three treat 

 of the subject more fully: 



Kevision der von Spix in Brasilien gesammelten Najaden. Arch. f. Naturg. 



1890, p. 117-170. Taf. IX. 



On the ancient relations between New Zealand and South America. Trans, 

 of the New Zealand Instit, Vol. XXIV, 1891, p. 431-445, (cf. Ausland, 



1891, No. 18). 



Die geographische Verbreitung der Flussmuscheln. '• Ausland," Stuttgart, 

 1890, No. 48 and 49 cf. The New Zealand Journal of Science, 1891, p. 151. 



Die geographische Verbreitung der Ampullarien in siidlichen Brasilien. 

 Nachrbl. d. Deutch. Malak. Ges., No. 5 and 6, 1891. 



Anodonta und Glabaris. Zoolog. Anzeiger, No. 380-381, 1891-92. 



Ueber die Beziehungen der chilenischen und siidbrasilianischen Siisswas- 

 serfauna. Verhandl. d. deutschen wissensch. Vereines zu Santiago, 1891, II. 

 Bd., p. 143-149. 



Morphologie und Systematik des Genitalapparates von Helix. Zeitschr. f. 

 wissensch. Zool., Bd. 54, 1892, p. 386-520, Taf. 18-19 (cf. p. 489, Geograph. 

 Verbreitung). 



Das neotropisch Florengebiet und seine Geschichte. Botan. Jahrbiicher. 

 Engler. Bd. 17, 1893, p. 1-54. 



Najaden von Sao Paulo und die geographische Verbreitung der Siisswasser- 

 faunen von Siidamerika. Archiv. f. Naturgesch., 1893, p. 45-140, Taf. Ill and 



IV - 



Die Ameisen von Rio Grande do Sul. Berliner Entomolog. Zeitschr. Bd. 



39, 1894, p. 321-446. 



6 And if in contrast to my opinion Ameghino is right, there was a connection 

 also in the beginning of the tertiary period, followed without doubt by a long 

 time of separation of both Americas. 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



immigrants. In herpetology this is not the case, nor may we expect 

 fossil material so abundant. Here zoogeographical data may help. 

 Thus, I believe, no one could understand the geographical distri- 

 bution of Hyla without supposing it a pliocene immigrant to 

 Brazil from the north. We may be sure that Hyla or its allied 

 forms will never be found in South America in the older tertiary 

 formation. Taking Hyla as a northern intrusive element which 

 passed by way of Central America to the Amazonian region and 

 southward, we may easily understand the complete absence of these 

 tree frogs from the Chilian forests. The Andean barrier of Chili 

 and Peru is a very old one, and that of Ecuador a very recent one. 

 This explains the fact hitherto not observed, that the Cordilleras 

 are a zoological dividing line in Chile and Peru, but not in Ecuador. 

 It seems to me quite probable that the American Teiidce and Iguan- 

 idce, are originally from South America, and the Solenoglyphce, 

 Boidce, etc. from North America. 



It is not my intention to fully discuss these questions here; I 

 would only call attention to them as new problems which we have 

 to solve. 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW FISH FROM SAO PAULO. 

 PAULICEA gen. nov. 



Head broader then deep, flattened, with the upper jaw little pro- 

 jecting beyond the lower, covered with skin, granulated behind. 

 Occipital process reaching the dorsal plate. Dorsal spine nearly 



equidistant from snout and adipose fin. 

 Pectoral spine long, broader than the dorsal 

 spine, serrate behind. D. 1-6. Caudal not 

 deeply forked. Villiform teeth on upper 

 jaw, palate and vomer. Palatine teeth 

 forming with the vomerine patches a shal- 

 low band immediately behind the inter- 

 Maxillary, vomerine ... , , - . , . , . , , , 

 and palatine teeth of P. maxillary band of teeth, which is broad and 



jahu. scarcely or not at all narrowed in the middle. 



P. jahu sp. n. 



A large species reaching a weight of 100 Kilo, and a length of 

 1.5-1.8 M. Width of head at the mouth two-thirds of its greatest 

 width. D. 1-6. A. 1-10. Adipose fin equal to the anal fin. 

 Maxillary barbel short, somewhat flattened, not longer than the 

 head. Dirty gray with indistinct dark spots on back and sides. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



There is in Sao Paulo in the rivers of the Rio Parana system, 

 especially in the system of the Rio Tieti, only one other fish which 

 attains the dimensions of the Jahu ; this is the Pseudoplatystoma 

 coruscans Ag., called Piracampacii. I got both at Piracicaba. The 

 genus Paulicea is identical with the nameless genus No. XXXII, of 

 C. H. and R. Eigenmaun, 1 a genus which contains besides the new 

 species here described, one Amazonian species P. lutkeni Steind., 

 described as Platystoma. 



1 A review of the South American Nematognathi, San Francisco, 1890, p. 

 201. 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



OBSERVATIONS ON ERRANT FRUSTULES OF EUNOTIA MAJOR. 

 BY T. CHALKLEY PALMER. 



The diatom Eunotia major Rab. occurs in some abundance in the 

 uplands of Delaware Co., Pa., though appearing to flourish only in 

 the basins of such springs as are well-shaded at all seasons. In these 

 springs it is often present in profusion, forming masses of clean, 

 brownish filaments attached to the sides of the pools, and by prefer- 

 ence to submerged wood. The filaments grow to a length of ten 

 centimeters, and vary in breadth from 0.036 mm. to 0.200 mm. 

 in accordance with the length of their constituent cells. These fila- 

 ments intertangle in such manner as to afford cover for numerous 

 protozoa, and for such diatoms as Surirella, Nitzschia, Pinnularia 

 and Navicula. Eunotia lunaris Grun. also frequently occurs in pro- 

 fusion in the same company. 



In making a gathering of the filaments for study, it is well to be- 

 gin by washing them free from all loosely adherent matters, such as 

 sand, mica and clayey flocculence. They are then placed in a clean 

 bottle which has been filled with water from the spring. A short 

 exposure to diffused daylight will cause the diatoms to rise to the 

 top, buoyed up by a multitude of oxygen bubbles entangled among 

 them, and to free themselves from a further portion of mineral mat- 

 ter, which will at once subside, and may be rejected by decantation. 



An examination of the gathering under the microscope will usu- 

 ally reveal, besides the filaments, a certain number of frustules, 

 either isolated or in groups of two or three, moving about in a slow 

 and erratic manner. In the course of two or three days, if all goes 

 well, the proportion of moving cells will have increased ; and from 

 day to day, conditions permitting, the long filaments will progres- 

 sively separate, until frequently the whole gathering ends by resolv- 

 ing itself entirely into isolated cells and short sections composed of 

 two, four or even six cells, all in a state of lively locomotion. 



Conditions favoring production of errant frustules. — The prime 

 requisite for any extended study of the gathering is the preserva- 

 tion of the diatoms in a healthy condition. The best results have 

 followed with Eunotia major when the clean filaments were kept in a 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



semi-dark room, in a narrow-necked bottle filled with water from 

 the native spring. Evaporation is slow and distilled water only is 

 to be used in compensation. Any addition of town water is apt to 

 be followed by a sudden and enormous increase of bacteria and a 

 rapid decay of the diatoms. Bacteria do, in any case, gradually 

 invade the culture and ultimately destroy it; but, with the above 

 very simple precautions, it is quite possible to keep the gathering in 

 good condition for a month — long enough to observe a variety of 

 changes. 



Free access of oxygen promotes the production of the motile frus- 

 tules. Two approximately equal quantities of healthy filaments were 

 selected, one of which was placed in a little vial with a narrow neck, 

 the other in a flat glass dish ; and, other conditions, as temperature, 

 light and amount of water, being identical, at the end of a week the 

 filaments in the dish had entirely disappeared, and the glass was 

 found to be coated with single cells and small motile segments of the 

 original filaments, while the bulk of those in the vial remained un- 

 separated. 



A second experiment was as follows : — Two quantities of the un- 

 separated filaments, as nearly equal as may be, were put into pre- 

 cisely similar bottles. The first was at once placed in a dark corner 

 of a poorly lighted room, the second beside it, after having been ex- 

 posed to bright daylight until a mass of oxygen bubbles had formed. 

 In the course of twenty-four hours, during nine of which all light 

 was absent, the exposed bottle contained quantities of active motile 

 cells, while the other afforded only a very few. This experiment, 

 twice repeated with the same result, taken in connection with that 

 which precedes, would indicate that we have here to do with a pro- 

 cess the reverse of the endothermic chlorophyl reaction: — 



C0 2 + H 2 = CH 2 + 2 



and that the chemical side of the phenomenon is that which accom- 

 panies protoplasmic motile activity in general. 



This conclusion is reenforced by the observed fact that filaments 

 of Eunotia in process of separation, and the resultant motile cells, 

 give a strong carbon dioxide color-reaction in thoroughly aerated 

 water tinted with hematoxylin ; it is in accord with the important 

 observation of O. Miiller 1 as to the stimulating action of oxygen upon 

 Pinnularia ; and, finally, it is diametrically opposed to that view of 



1 Berichte der Deutsch. Botan. Gesellsch., Bd. XI, p. 571. 




112 PROCEEDrNGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



the nature of diatom movements held by the proponents of the "os- 

 motic hypothesis," especially as this is set forth quite recently by 

 W. M. Kozlowski. 2 



The stimulating action of light upon the motile activity of the 

 errant frustules of Eunotia is not to be doubted, and has been ob- 

 served a number of times; but, up to the present, notwithstanding 

 that I have paid some attention to the matter, the phenomena ob- 

 served are not such as are incapable of classification under the head 

 of oxygen stimulation. No fact whatever has clearly indicated any 

 special tendency to motion in the direction of greatest illumination, 

 and after observing, under various conditions, the movements of 

 thousands of these frustules, I have strong doubt as to the existence 

 of any such tendency in Eunotia. 



Characteristics of movements. — Students of diatom movements 

 have, almost without exception, confined themselves to Pinnularia 

 and other naviculoid forms wherein the phenomena are most strik- 

 ing. H. L. Smith, 3 and, more recently, O. Biitschli 4 and R. Lauter- 

 born, 5 have been in practical agreement as to the phenomena, and to 

 a certain extent they agree in the conclusion that motion is the re- 

 sult of an expulsion of a more or less fluid filament from the central 

 nodule. O. Miiller, 6 agreeing with the others as to the phenomena, 

 looks rather, for their explanation, to currents of protoplasm which 

 circulate along the raphe within the coleoderm, entering into and 

 departing from the inner cell by way of the central and terminal 

 nodules. Hauptfleisch 7 has studied forms of Amphiprora and Bre- 

 bissonia, and by staining methods has apparently demonstrated in 

 these the existence of a protoplasmic canal penetrating the raphe, 

 through the delicate walls of which protrude exceedingly fine threads 

 of protoplasm which act like similar organs in the rhizopods. 



3 Botanical Gazette, Vol. XXIV, p. 39. Kozlowski presents in an ingenious 

 manner considerations supposed to point to the conclusion that in Pimndaria 

 motion is due to unequal photosyntax in the two ends of the frustule, causing 

 stronger inward currents of assimilable liquid and gas in one or the other 

 end, this difference depending upon the unequal illumination of the two ends. 



3 Proceedings Amer. Hoc- Micros., 1836. 



4 Mittheilung iiber die Bewegung der Diatomeen, Heidelberg, 1892. 



5 Untersuchungen iiber Bau, Kerntheilung und Bewegung der Diatomeen, 

 Leipsic, 1896. 



6 Berichte der Deutsch. Botan. Gesellsch. : Bd. VII, pp. 169-180 : Bd. XI, 

 p. 571. 



7 Mittheilungen des naturwiss. Vereins fiir Neu-vorporamern und Riigen, 

 Jahrg., XXVII. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



Little attention having been paid to the slower movements of 

 forms outside the Raphidiea3, it is not unusual to meet with state- 

 ments implying that definite and positive motion, requiring expla- 

 nation, is not observable in the case of these forms. This is a curi- 

 ous error. Splendid exhibitions of motile activity have long been 

 familiar in the case of various species of Nitzschia, and the exceed- 

 ingly striking movements of BaciUaria paradoxa are known to ob- 

 servers the world over. Certain species of Diatom a and Fragilaria 

 exhibit motile phenomena of no doubtful kind ; and of Eunotia 

 major, which may stand as a type of the Fragilariese, the follow- 

 ing are the observed facts : — 



When a drop of water containing errant frustules is observed 

 under an enlargement of about 200 diameters, the first movement 

 detected will probably be that illustrated in fig. 2, PI. VI. Certain 

 frustules rise slowly on their ends, rotating smoothly through 180°, 

 and fall flat upon the slide. During this manoeuvre an end remains 

 in contact with the glass and serves as a hinge whereon the frustule 

 turns. Occasionally, but not often, a similar revolution is ac- 

 complished at right-angles to this — in which case the long valve, 

 instead of the narrow end, functions as a hinge. This particular 

 movement only occurs immediately after the deposition of the di- 

 atoms upon the slide, unless at this time the cells are not in a state 

 of activity, in which case it may be somewhat delayed. A long 

 series of observations, extending over three years, has shown both 

 the conditions under which this odd movement occurs, and the 

 manifold purpose of it. It is, first, significant that only those cells 

 that have chanced to fall upon the slide with ventral or concave 

 girdle uppermost, as in A, fig. 2, Plate VI perform this movement. 

 Such as have been deposited with ventral side down, as in C, begin 

 without delay to move endwise in the direction indicated in the figure. 

 Careful focussing shows that in most cases the frustule is, during 

 this forward movement, tilted a trifle, so that while the anterior end 

 remains in contact with the glass, the posterior end is free from it. 

 This position is undoubtedly a condition precedent to successful 

 locomotion, and there is no doubt that the attaining of this position 

 is the purpose of the rotation. That the anterior end is in contact 

 with the slide will be proven conclusively as we proceed ; and it is, 

 therefore, to the end of the frustule, and more especially to the 

 ventral side of the rounded end, that search must be directed for 

 the mechanism of this diatom's movement. 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



The forward movement of Eunotia resembles very little the 

 smooth gliding of Pinnularia and Nitzschia. If these seem to swim, 

 the other would appear to crawl. One corner is advanced a trifle, 

 then the other corner, then both move forward at once. Occasion- 

 ally the frustule will sidle for a moment ; but generally the pro- 

 gression consists of a succession of impulsive jerks. The movement 

 is accompanied by indications of very considerable stress. Compar- 

 atively large bodies, such as short filaments of Eunotia or small 

 particles of sand, are pushed resolutely aside. Larger bodies, espe- 

 cially such as have considerable thickness, arrest the frustule for a 

 time ; but after a short interval, it is apt to turn upon its edge, with 

 ventral girdle in contact with the obstruction, to move past in this 

 position, and once more to resume its normal relations with the 

 slide. At the moment of the passage of the anterior, and sometimes 

 the posterior end of the frustule, the obstruction may be seen to 

 move backward, as if from an impulse resembling a kick. These 

 curious features I have observed numberless times. 



If by chance the moving cell pass, as in fig. 1, PI. VI, with a 

 corner over the circumference of a thin piece of mica, the latter is, 

 in many cases, caused to revolve backward in the direction indicated 

 in the figure. This also was seen so often that the existence of some- 

 thing resembling pseudopodia at the corners of the frustule came to 

 be anticipated with confidence. 



Many species of motile diatoms, among them Pinnularia and Nit- 

 zschia, exhibit a sort of pendulum movement. The frustule proceeds 

 in a straight line a certain time, comes to rest, and returns upon its 

 path without changing the direction of its longer axis. This swing 

 to and fro is repeated any number of times, so that anterior and pos- 

 terior ends continually change places. There is little of this in the 

 movement of Eunotia. I have frequently followed a frustule for 

 half an hour without seeing it return upon its path, and on one oc- 

 casion I observed a particularly active individual for two and a half 

 hours, in which period its devious way was into all portions of the 

 hollowed slide, and in all that time it kept one and the same end 

 foremost. Yet there seems to be no universal necessity for this 

 habit, since frustules are frequently observed to exhibit propulsive 

 efforts upon solid bodies from both ends, and occasionally they do 

 reverse their direction. 



Movements in the hanging drop. — In order to study somewhat 

 further the relations between moving Eunotia and the glass of the 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



support, drops of water containing many frustules were suspended on 

 cover-glasses and observed. The diatoms were found to separate into 

 two portions. The first remained attached to the glass ; such of 

 them as had their dorsal or convex girdles next the glass performed 

 the revolution before described ; and these, with the others in con- 

 tact with the cover, proceeded in characteristic ways, with the curi- 

 ous and significant difference, that as viewed from above the ventral 

 side was now uppermost. The second portion fell to the surface of 

 the suspended drop, where they moved as if upon a solid substratum. 

 Midway of the drop there were none. Undoubtedly the surface of 

 the drop possessed sufficient tension for the purposes of a crawling 

 diatom. I have seen, in an aquarium, small snails crawling freely 

 along the plane of contact between water and air, with broad, flat 

 foot uppermost, applied to the surface of the liquid as if to a piece 

 of glass. 



Phenomena in carbon emulsion. — All preceding observations seem- 

 ing to point to the existence of invisible organs functioning as pseu- 

 dopodia, the endeavor was made to outline these by the well-known 

 method of putting the diatoms in an emulsion of colored particles 

 finely divided. To this end, since available India ink was found to 

 be toxic owing to its content of camphor, a portion of carbon-black 

 water-color was rubbed up in a drop of water until a very dark color 

 was obtained. The emulsion showed, under medium powers, a mul- 

 titude of particles exhibiting the Brownian movement. When placed 

 in this, the errant Eunotia cells revealed quite clearly the existence 

 at the corners of rounded masses of coleoderm. These were espe- 

 cially clear at the anterior corners. The particles of carbon ap- 

 proached the frustules quite closely everywhere except about the 

 corners, and a little U-shaped line, composed of somewhat compacted 

 particles, preceded the moving diatom. There was nowhere observa- 

 ble any streaming away of the particles, such as that seen by H. 

 L. Smith and others in Pinnularia. Owing to the tenacity of the 

 emulsion, and partly perhaps to the relatively raised position of the 

 posterior end of the frustule, the clear spaces are less evident at the 

 posterior corners. 



Results of staining. — Numerous attempts were made with a va- 

 riety of stains to render the coleoderm visible, the presence of which 

 seemed to be so strongly indicated. All efforts to stain the still 

 living coleoderm failed entirely. There was little better success in 

 fixing with osmic acid and staining with methylene blue, methyl 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



blue, fuchsin, etc., for the osmic acid seemed to produce, as it were, 

 a certain shrinking of the very delicate organs. A measure of suc- 

 cess followed the use of gentian violet followed by tannic acid, both 

 in minute quantity. By this means the coleoderm was outlined; 

 and especially in the case of frnstules that had passed the period of 

 their activity, and were nearly or quite dead, as shown by their con- 

 tracted nucleus and bacteria-infested outline, the surface staining of 

 the gelatinous external layer was clear. An extreme case of this is 

 roughly shown in fig. 7, PI. VI. Here the contents of the inner cell 

 were apparently normal, with the exception of the nucleus, but the 

 coleoderm was quite flaccid, loosely adherent to the frustule, and 

 abnormally enlarged, as well as fringed with colonies of bacteria. 



The stain which most quickly and surely shows the healthy coleo- 

 derm, at the same time instantly killing the diatom, is made as fol- 

 lows: — - 5 gram of Bismarck brown and 1.0 gram tannic acid are 

 dissolved separately and added to a liter of distilled water. The 

 solution remains perfectly clear, and is of a reddish-brown color. 

 Two or three drops of this are added to a drop of water, under the 

 cover glass, containing errant frustules of Eunotia. Almost before 

 a change of tint is visible in the thin layer of water under the mi- 

 croscope, motion ceases, and, at the same time, at each corner of 

 the frustules appears a little rounded mass of substance, gelatinous 

 in appearance, and dotted with coppery or bronzy specks of most 

 minute size. The shape of these masses, and their relation to the 

 frustule, are indicated in figures 4 and 5, PI. VI. The results of 

 somewhat heavier staining with the same mixture are shown photo- 

 graphically by Mr. F. J. Keeley in figures 4, 5, and 6, PI. VII. 



Pursuant to the further study of these coleoderm masses, a large 

 number of errant frustules were stained as follows : About two drops 

 of water, containing the diatoms, were put on a cover glass and 

 allowed some minutes to bring themselves into normal relations with 

 the glass. Three drops of the described stain solution were added 

 and staining was allowed to proceed half an hour. The excess of 

 color was then removed by careful washing, dipping the cover re- 

 peatedly into a cup of water with as little friction as possible. 

 Griibler's aqueous eosin, diluted with an equal quantity of water, 

 was now added and allowed to act half an hour to an hour. Finally, 

 the glass was washed and mounted in very weak formalin. The di- 

 atoms, under these circumstances, remain attached to the cover glass, 

 as a rule with ventral side uppermost, and with coleoderm processes 

 in the position best suited for study. 




1808.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 117 



Prepared in this manner, the isolated cells and short segments of 

 filaments present the appearance indicated by figures 3 to 5, PI. VI. 

 The gradual development of the foot-like organs from an intercellu- 

 lar plasm is shown in figure 3 ; and in figure 6 is shown the deteri- 

 oration of these organs, which takes the form of an overproduction 

 and liquefaction of gelatinous substance, and ends by gradually 

 bringing to rest all the moving cells of a gathering, and entangling 

 them in masses and threads of jelly. During this degeneration 

 many of the cells die, but some survive with every appearance of 

 health, though necessarily devoid of motion. 



In figures 8 and 9 is shown the appearance, under 1,000 diame- 

 ters, of the stained processes from the valve view and from the ven- 

 tral girdle view. The outer and larger process, mainly gelatinous, 

 shows a general mass slightly tinted only, outlined by more heavily 

 stained grains within the substance. These grains take the eosin 

 as do the protoplasmic granules of the inner cell. The smaller pro- 

 cess, which seems to be somewhat shrunken by the staining with 

 eosin (compare figures 4, 5 and 6, PI. VII) are of a deep and nearly 

 uniform red, and are in close apparent contact with aggregations of 

 protoplasm within the frustule. 



The small and apparently constant bead-like bodies around the 

 circumference of the curving gelatinous masses have no perceptible 

 thread-like connection with the more richly protoplasmic processes 

 at the corners, and their significance is somewhat doubtful. They 

 probably have some relation to a current of protoplasm which would 

 seem to issue from the cell and return to it. 



Structure oj the frustule. — The existence of a " pseudo-nodule " 

 on the ventral side of the valve, near the end, has long been known ; 

 but that there is a raphe at the end of the frustule has not, I be- 

 lieve, been stated. The photographs in Plate VII, which I owe to the 

 kindness of Mr. F. J. Keeley, show clearly both the existence of 

 this raphe and the presence, especially on the ventral girdle, of 

 several channels in the silica which seem adapted to lead currents 

 to and from this raphe and the pseudo nodule. 



The exact shape of the raphe itself, and its extent, remain to be 

 determined ; and indeed the problem presents difficulties, for the 

 position of the raphe on the end of the frustule would necessitate 

 sections for its study. 



When a very dilute aqueous solution of gentian violet is dropped 

 upon living and moving Eunotia major, and afterward washed off, 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



certain deeply stained lines are seen in immediate contact with the 

 silica of the ventral surface, and running down from the pseudo- 

 nodule and the end nodule. These dark lines follow the course of 

 the channels in the silica shown by the photographs, and would be 

 explained by the existence of richly protoplasmic fluid. In a single 

 case one of these lines was seen to issue, to all appearance, through 

 the raphe and enter the coleoderm. 



The above results of observation and experiment would seem to 

 me to be conclusive proof that Eunotia major, and by inference 

 other nearly related species and genera of the Fragilariece, move 

 by the action of organs that may be called coleopodia. This con- 

 clusion, however, is far from touching the question of the means of 

 locomotion in Pinnularia and its allies, and I have endeavored to 

 indicate some of the differences of the phenomena to be explained 

 in the two cases. It may be added in this connection that while a 

 large Pinnularia in rapid motion not infrequently gives evidence of 

 brisk iuternal currents such as O. Miiller has described, such cur- 

 rents have not been observed by me in moving Eunotia. Under 

 rather high powers one only sees, near the corners of the frustule, 

 in the vicinity of the raphe, a certain internal commotion among 

 the very small protoplasmic granules, a spasmodic movement back 

 and forth, a weaving about. This movement differs alike from the 

 streaming of cyclosis and the Brownian trembling, and it is trace- 

 able with difficulty, if at all, far from the corners. Nevertheless, 

 the channelling of the frustule is of a character to indicate the exist- 

 ence of currents, and further observation may yet reveal them. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES. 

 Plate vi. diagrammatic. 



Fig. 1. — Representation of Eunotia major moving across a piece of 

 mica and revolving it in the opposite direction. 



Fig. 2. — A frustule, valve view, in A resting upon its dorsal girdle, 

 B revolving, and C reaching its normal motile position and 

 moving in the direction of the arrow. 



Fig. 3. — A short filament showing stages in the development of the 

 coleopodia, and a free motile cell with development com- 

 plete. Stained with Bismarck brown and eosin. 



Fig. 4. — Valve view of motile cell, stained with Bismarck brown 

 and eosin. 



Fig. 5. — Stained cells, including a group of two. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



Fig. 6. — Degeneration of the coleopodia, from overproduction of 



gelatinous substance, resulting in adherence. Stained as 



before. 

 Fig. 7. — Degeneration of the whole coleoderm, which is infested 



with bactaria in colonies. Gentian violet. 

 Figs. 8 and 9. — Coleopodia under higher magnification, showing 



differential staining by Bismarck brown and eosin. 



Plate vii. 



Fig. 1. — Ventral girdle view of cleaned frustule of Eunotia major X 

 925. 



Fig. 2. — Optical section of the same frustule, showing the end raphe 

 and channels leading to raphe and pseudo-nodule, X 925. 



Fig. 3. — Dorsal girdle of the same frustule, X 925. 



Figs. 4 and 5. — Motile frustules of Eunotia major, stained with Bis- 

 marck brown and tannic acid, X 315. 



Fig. 6. — An enlargement of 4 (X 435). 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



A SMALL COLLECTION OF MAMMALS FROM NORTH- 

 EASTERN CHINA. 



BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS. 



These notes are based on a collection of seventeen mammals 

 brought to Philadelphia by Messrs. George and J. Edward Farnum, 

 the product of a hunting trip in the Chinese and Mongolian terri- 

 tories northeast of Pekin with Dr. A. Donaldson Smith during May, 

 June, July and August, 1897. By the generos'ty of these three 

 gentlemen the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia comes 

 into possession of the greater part of the collection, thus adding 

 seven species new to its museum. An account of their trip is being 

 prepared for the Geographical Journal of London. 



1. Microtus (Microtias) mongolicus (Radde). 1 Mongolian Vole. 



Seven specimens, Nos. 4,590 to 4,596, from along the shores of the 

 Sungari River in Mongolia north of Petun, come near M. arvalis 

 Pallas as defined by Poliakoff, Lataste and G. S. Miller, Jr. From 

 their greater size and resemblance to Radde's plate of mongolicus, 

 both as regards external and cranial characters, as well as from their 

 geographic position, it appears best to consider them asmo?igolicus. 

 Externally the adult specimens resemble closely in size and color 

 very large M.pennsylvanicus taken at the same season (July 16th) 

 in the vicinity of Philadelphia. The pelage of mongolicus, however, 

 is more thin and coarse, indicating a habitat in a hot climate. In 

 the skull of an old male specimen the interorbital ridges have 

 coalesced on the frontal suture in a sharp elevated median ridge. 

 Comparing it with 31. pennsylvanicus of same age and sex their 

 greatest zygomatic width is about the same, but the length of the 

 mongolicus skull is about 4 millimeters greater and its interorbital 

 elevation above the alveolus of m. 1 is 2 mm. greater, showing a 

 relative length and depth of cranium quite remarkable in the genus 

 and nowhere approached in any American species known to me. 

 The molar series are correspondingly long and narrow. It is a true 

 member of the subgenus Microtus as defined by Miller. 2 The hind 



^eis. im Ost-Sibir., I, p. 194, pi. VII. 

 2 N. Amer. Fauna, No. 12, 1896. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



foot is 24 mm. from end of heel to end of claws; the tail 45 mm. 

 long, these dimensions being taken from the dry specimen. No 

 measurements for any of the specimens in the collection were recorded 

 by the collectors. 



2. Mus humiliatus M. Edwards. Pekin River Rat. 



An adult female, No. 4,598, from the steep banks of a stream at 

 Shiao Ho Tzu undoubtedly represents Milne Edwards' species de- 

 scribed 3 from the environs of Pekin, and with whose measurements 

 and plate it closely agrees. Edwards states that it represents Mus 

 rattus in China, an unaccountable statement, perhaps a slip of the 

 pen for Mus decumanus, as its external and cranial characters are 

 very close to the short-eared, brown-backed, gray-bellied short-whisk- 

 ered Norway Rat. Its short tail and small cranium, however, easily 

 distinguish it from decumanus. The skull of the specimen is 37.5 mm. 

 in occipito-nasal length and 18.5 mm. in its greatest zygomatic ex- 

 panse. The nasals are relatively short, not reaching so near to the 

 superior termini of the premaxillaries as in decumanus or rattus. 

 The relations of this species to Mus caraco Pallas are seemingly close 

 and it may yet prove that humiliatus is only a subspecies of caraco. 



3. Mus sp. ? 



The scalp and skull of an adult, long-whiskered, long-eared and 

 long-nosed rat, No. 4,599, taken southeast of Dolonnor apparently 

 represent a species of slender and elegant proportions, with a skull 

 nearly as long as in the specimen of humiliatus above recorded, but 

 with a greatly diminished zygomatic width and cranial depth. 

 These characters and the great relative length of rostrum put it in 

 the Mus rattus group. Its cranium is much smaller and more slender 

 than M. rattus alexandrinus and the mandihles are unusually nar- 

 row and weak for a Mus. The upper head is yellowish-brown, 

 heavily lined with black, darkest around eyes. Ears brown-gray ; 

 lips white; throat yellowish-white ; gray of cheeks broadly bordered 

 iuferiorly by ochraceous buff which probably extended increasingly 

 along neck and sides of body. 



4. Alactaga annulata (M. Edwards). Subsp. ? Jerboa, Khin Gan. 



A young female Jerboa, No. 4,597, about two-thirds grown, from 

 all appearances should be classed under the above name. As would 

 be expected, its immaturity is evinced by the darker pelage over the 



3 Recher. Mam., 1868-74, p. 137. 

 9 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



entire upper parts as contrasted with M. Edward's figure* of an adult 

 specimen. This dark coloration results from the black tips of the 

 upper pelage being more strongly developed and the buff ground 

 colors less intense than in the adult stage. The peculiar markings 

 of the tail fit M. Edward's figure so well that its specific affinity to 

 annulatus is very probable. On the other hand our specimen was 

 not taken in the Mongolian desert but at an elevation of 3,550 feet 

 in a high fertile valley, on the border of the desert in the Khin Gan 

 Mountains. It is probably a dark race of annulata, as yet un- 

 named. 5 



5. Tamias (Eutamias) asiaticus (Gmelin). Asiatic- Chipmunk. 



Two adult specimens, No. 4,601 from Tung Ching Tzu and No. 

 4,602 from Sian Lang Kou, the first taken in May, the latter in June, 

 both from the Province of Pechili along the foothills of the Khin 

 Gan Range south and east of Dolonuor, are of interest when com- 

 pared with American species of the subgenus Exdamias. Founded 

 in 1880 by Trouessart as a subgenus, Eutamias has lately been con- 

 sidered by Dr. Merriam 6 as of full generic value, with T. asiaticus 

 as its type, and including several species of West American chip- 

 munks of the townsendi, speciosus and pictus groups. 



As contrasted with typical Tamias of Illiger, with our eastern 

 striatus as its type, Eutamias presents invariably a persistent second 

 upper premolar, never found in striatus and its east American con- 

 geners. This feature is the only one given by Trouessart to char- 

 acterize Eutamias, and it is worthy of mention that in his recent 

 Catalogus Mammalium that author does not recognize his Eutamias 

 even as a subgenus. It is, however, worthy of that rank and no 

 more, as its generic recognition necessitates a like subdivision of 

 Spermophilus into genera which, as such, are meaningless in nomen- 

 clature and only confuse where intended to elucidate the affinities of 

 distinct but closely related groups. 



The cranial characters of T. asiaticus do not seem to have been 

 made the basis of comparisons by any other writer than Trouessart 

 between the species of Tamias of the Old and New World. 



4 Recher. Mam., pi. X. 



5 Radde's name, Dipus jaculus var. mongolian,, in Mel. Biol. Acad. St. Pet., 

 Ill, 1861, p. 680, cited by Trouessart, may be applicable to M. Edwards' 

 species. If so it has priority over A . annulata. 



6 Proc. Biol. Soc. Washn., July, 1897, p. 189. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



Dr. J. A. Allen makes no mention of them in his publications on 

 the subject. The skulls of the two adult specimens secured by the 

 Messrs. Farnum present several characters of interest. First, as to 

 their subgeneric status, it is noteworthy that asiaticus not only has 

 the well developed and persistent second premolar found in our west 

 American species but also exhibits 6 to 8 strongly developed sulci 

 on the pigmented face of the upper incisors, analogous to those often 

 exhibited by Arctomys from the Cascade Mountains. An examina- 

 tion of several of our Cascade Mountain, Sierra Madre and British 

 Columbia species of Eutamias exhibits the same character, and in 

 some species, as T. merriami, T. quadrivittatus and T. townsendi it is 

 very marked. T. striatus and its allies of the subgenus Tamias have 

 normally smooth incisors as in Spermophilus and its subgenera Am- 

 mospermophilus and Callospermophilus. Dr. Allen's final separa- 

 tion of all American species of Tamias from T. asiaticus 6 was based 

 solely on an examination of the external characters of Siberian spec- 

 imens, considered in connection with the wide geographic separation 

 of the habitats of the most boreal forms known in Eastern Asia and 

 Western America. An English mammalogist of great note has 

 taken occasion to deplore Dr. Allen's change of arrangement of 

 American species as an illustration of the species-splitting which 

 characterizes present day methods of American mammalogists. Had 

 our critic been at the pains to inquire into the subject by personal 

 examination of specimens he would certainly have avoided choosing 

 such an illustration ; for the specific differences between T. asiaticus 

 and its nearest ally in America are, in respect of the cranium, very 

 marked. The skull of asiaticus is much larger than that of the 

 largest American Eutamias. It is also relatively much wider than 

 the skull of any American species of the genus Tamias and the great 

 width of the nasal bones contrasted with their shortness immediately 

 separates asiaticus from any other Tamias. There is a distinct supra- 

 orbital process or spine in asiaticus caused by the more posterior 

 reach of the normal supraorbital notch found in all other species of 

 the genus. The skull of No. 4,602 is 40.5 mm. long ; its greatest 

 width 22.5 mm. ; nasal length, 12.3 mm. ; posterior breadth of nasals, 

 5 mm. ; interorbital constriction 10.2 mm. Unfortunately no 

 measurements of the Mongolian specimens were taken before skin- 

 ning. The hind foot, measured dry, is 38 mm. in one specimen and 

 40 mm. in the other, indicating a species larger than striatus. 



"Bull. Araer. Mus. N.H., III, p. 45. 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



6. Lepus sp. Hare. 



A hare, No. 4,600, whose characters indicate a near approach to 

 maturity, evidently belongs to a species about the size of Lepus 

 americanus. It was taken on the east slope of the Khin Gan Mts., 

 in Mongolia, at an elevation of about 4,000 feet. It is much smaller 

 than any hare described from this region by Radde, Schrenck, 

 Pallas and others, the hiud foot measuring only 105 mm. in length. 

 The tail and ears are relatively long, the former black above and 

 white below. The ears are blackish-gray and ochraceous, like upper 

 head and body, and bordered at tips with black. The belly, breast, 

 vent and chin are pure white to bases of hairs; the lower neck, fore 

 legs, and space between shoulders are tawny ochraceous. The skull 

 characters show close affinity to Lepus americanus. It was taken 

 July 15th, and is in full summer pelage. 



7. Gazella gutturosa mongolica (Heude). Mongolian Gazelle. 



An adult male and a yearling of the same sex, of the " Imperial 

 Sheep " or " Houang Yangtze " are represented by two heads in the 

 collection. On the supposition that Heude's species mongolica' 

 is separable from the Siberian gutturosa of Pallas, I adopt the above 

 trinomial. Its separability from what Heude figures as hillieriana 

 on the next plate I am inclined to doubt. In the yearling the horns 

 are about 3 inches long and curve inward, their points touching 

 and slightly overlapping above the occiput. The specimens were 

 taken in the Imperial Hunting Park northeast of Dolonnor. A 

 female of the same species, shot June 6th, contained a nearly mature 

 foetus. 



8. Capreolus pygargus (Pallas), subsp.? Mongolian Roe Deer. 



The skull and scalp of a fine male specimen of this animal were 

 secured in the Imperial Hunting Park. It is placed in the above 

 category on the authority of Sir V. Brooke 8 who considers the Man- 

 churian Roe to be at least a small race of pygargus. 



It is remarkable that this specimen, shot in the middle of June, is 

 possessed of a fine set of antlers from which the velvet has not wholly 

 disappeared around the bur. 



9. Lynx isabellinus (Blyth). Thibetan Lynx. 



A fine adult specimen of Lynx, No. 4,603, also taken in the Im- 

 perial Hunting Park, agrees with Blyth's description of isabellinus 



7 Mem. Hist. Nat. Chinois., 1894, p. 245. PI. XXXV11. 

 8 P. Z S., 1878, pp. 917-918. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



as compared with the characters of the L. lynx (L.) of Europe. I 

 am unable to state au opinion as to the specific value of isabellinus 

 but the fact of specific identity among the several forms of Lynx 

 ruffus found across the northern continent of America, and their 

 close resemblance to L. lynx of Eurasia, suggests that isabellinus is 

 only an eastern race of that species, characterized by fewer and 

 weaker spots, more naked foot pads and paler color. The specimen 

 was killed June 17th. 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



NOTES ON ALASKAN WATER BIRDS. 

 BY ALVIN SEALE. 



During the summer of 1896, it was the writer's privilege, in com- 

 pany with Norman B. Scofield, a fellow student at Stanford Uni- 

 versity, to make a trip into the Arctic Seas for the purpose of col- 

 lecting specimens of natural history for the Leland Stanford Junior 

 University of California. 



The expedition was under the patronage of Mr. Timothy Hopkins 

 of Menlo Park, California, to whom great credit is due for the splen- 

 did scientific equipment to which the success of the expedition is 

 largely due. 



We desire also to express our appreciation of the favors extended 

 to us by the Pacific Steam Whaling Company of San Francisco, who 

 furnished free transportation for the expedition, and spared no pains 

 or expense to make our voyage pleasant as well as successful. Val- 

 uable aid was also given us by the commanders and officers of the 

 various whaling vessels of the above company. Special service was 

 rendered us by Captain Townsend of the bark " J. D. Peters," Cap- 

 tain Mason of the S. S. " Jeanie," Captain Cogan of the S. S. 

 " Thrasher," Captain Smith of the S. S. '' Narwhal," and also many 

 others. 



Our voyage extended north to Point Barrow, Alaska, thence east 

 to the Mackenzie River. Collections were made at various points 

 along the coast. 



URINATORIDJE. 



8. Urinator adamsii. Yellow-billed Loon. 



This Loon occurs in abundance at Point Barrow during the early 

 part of September. We are under obligations to Captain Akin of the 

 Rescue Station for a fine specimen, a male in full breeding plumage, 

 taken September 12th. Length 33.75 in. ; bill along culmen 3.5 ; 

 along gape 5 ; height at nostrils 1.2; width .50; tarsus 3.7; wing 

 14.3. Hab., western Arctic America and northeastern Asia. 



11. Urinator lumme. Red-throated Loon. 



The great abundance of divers forms a striking feature of bird 

 life in Alaskan waters. The Red-throated Loon is one of the most 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



common forms. Large bands of this species were observed at Point 

 Barrow during the month of September. For the most part these 

 birds were making their way to the south, usually flying high and 

 announcing their passage by hoarse, grating cries. 



In regard to this Loon, Nelson writes : " The Red-throated Loon 

 is one of the very few birds which raises its voice in the quiet of the 

 long Arctic night. It is abundant at Point Barrow where it is sup- 

 posed to breed. It also breeds upon the Commander Islands." 

 Hab., (Ridg.), northern portions of the northern hemisphere, breed- 

 ing in Arctic regions ; in North America, south in winter, nearly 

 across the United States. One specimen, (No. 3,374, Stanford 

 University), a male in full breeding plumage taken July 19th at 

 Orca, Alaska, S. W. 



ALCIDJE. 



12. Lunda cirrhata. Tufted Puffin. 



A single individual of this species came flying past our vessel 

 May 27th, in longitude 126° W., latitude 47° N. ; this was the first 

 specimen seen. It circled around us twice and was off again like a 

 shot. The following day three more were observed, and from this 

 time they became more and more abundant as we advanced to the 

 north until about June 16th, longitude 159° 50' W., latitude 51° 

 56' N. From this date and position there was a rapid decrease in 

 the number observed ; in fact, Tufted Puffins were not met with in 

 any great abundance north of the Aleutian Islands, their place being 

 taken by the Horned Puffin (Fratercula corniculata?). 



In their flight past our vessel these birds would usually circle 

 around us two or three times, turning their heads to one side and 

 looking down at us in a comical and knowing manner, and in many 

 ways manifesting a high degree of curiosity. Seven adult speci- 

 mens of Lunda cirrhata are in the Stanford University collection, 

 four of which are from Nutchuk, Alaska, July 5th ; three from the 

 Pribyloff Islands. Hab., coasts^and islands of the North Pacific, 

 from southern California to Alaska, and from Bering Strait to 

 Japan ; accidental in the Bay of Fundy and Kennebec River. 



14. Fratercula corniculata. Homed Puffin. 



We first observed Horned Puffins June 20th in longitude 165° 

 53' W., latitude 51° 30' N. From this position until we reached 

 Point Hope north of Kotzebue Sound they were common. At 

 King's Island near Port Clarence, Alaska, these birds nest in great 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



abundance ; this rookery was visited July 4th. The nests for 

 the most part seemed to he quite high on the cliff's, and at this season 

 were occupied by the immature birds, many of which were able to 

 fly. The discharge of a gun caused hundreds of the adult birds to 

 take wing and circle about us. In a very short time, however, they 

 settled upon the cliff again, crowding upon each other and keeping 

 up a curious guttural sound. This species is represented in the 

 Stanford University collection by five fine specimens in breeding 

 plumage taken on the Pribyloff Islands July, 1896. A specimen 

 taken early in the season (June 14th) has the head and neck a deep 

 glossy black so nearly like the coloring of the back that it was diffi- 

 cult to make out the usual sharp line of demarcation. Hah., coasts 

 and islands of the North Pacific, from British Columbia to the 

 Kurile Islands. "Abundant on all the shore line of Alaska south 

 of the Arctic circle" (Turner). 



17. Cyclorrhynchus psittaculus. Paroquet Auklet. 



One specimen of this species was shot at Point Barrow, September 

 12th. But few of these Auklets were seen. Three specimens were 

 taken on St. George Island, July 26th, by Messrs. Greely and 

 Snodgrass. Hab., coasts of the North Pacific from Sitka to the 

 Kurile Islands. 



18. Simorhynchus eristatellus. Crested Auklet. 



These were very abundant on the water near King's Island dur- 

 ing the early part of July. The natives brought large numbers of 

 these birds on board our vessel to barter. I noticed, however, that 

 they always removed the small crest of the bird before disposing of 

 it. Whether they retained the crest as an object of ornamentation 

 or for some superstitious reason I was unable to learn. Three speci- 

 mens 1 from the Pribyloff Islands taken in July show an interesting 

 variation in the size of the sexes. Male: wing, 5A ins; tarsus, Its ; 

 middle toe and claw, lit ; exposed culmen, t% ; depth of bill at 

 nostrils, ts ; greatest width of bill at gape, II ; head, HI. Female : 

 wing, 5A ; tarsus, 1 ; middle toe and claw, Its ', exposed culmen, 

 T5 ; depth of bill at nostrils, tb ; greatest width of bill at gape, II ; 

 head, lit. Hab., coasts of the North Pacific from Kadiak and the 

 Pribyloff' Islands to Kamtschatka and northern Japan. Nelson 

 found this bird breeding in abundance on the Diomede Islands in 

 Bering Strait. They were not seen by us north of King's Island. 



1 Nos. 3,522, 3,523, 3,553, Stanford University, Greely and Snodgrass. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



20. Simorhynchus pusillus. Least Auklet. 



From latitude about 60° north until we reached Bering Strait, 

 these little birds were quite common, usually seen in pairs on the 

 water. They were very tame and our vessel would almost run them 

 down before they would dive or fly. A number were shot near 

 King's Island. Three specimens, one male and two females, were 

 taken at St. George Island July, 1897, by Messrs. Greely and 

 Snodgrass. The male bird of this species shows a very decided in- 

 crease in size over the female on the measurement of bill, tarsus and 

 wing. Hab., coasts of the North Pacific, from Japan and southern 

 Alaska to the Aleutian and Pribyloff Islands. Nelson found these 

 birds abundant on the Diomede Islands in Bering Strait. 



29. Cepphus columba. Pigeon Guillemot. 



With the exception of a few specimens seen near King's Island, 

 the Pigeon Guillemots were not observed until we entered the Arc- 

 tic Ocean. At Icy Cape they were common on the water August 

 4th, their bright red legs, white wing bars and black bill making 

 them quite conspicuous. Few were met north of this point. Hab., 

 coast of the North Pacific, from southern California to Icy Cape, 

 Alaska, Aleutian Islands, Kamtschatka, and northern Japan. 



30. Uria troile californica. California Murre. 



June 16th a solitary California Murre was observed on the water, 

 longitude 150° W., latitude 51° 56' N. ; this was the first specimen 

 seen. Three days later eight more of this species were observed. 

 These birds, like the Tufted Puffin, were very curious about our 

 vessel and would usually circle around us a number of times before 

 going on their way. One even flew through our rigging four times, 

 acting very much as if trying to alight on the yards. Murres were 

 again met with June 20th, when a band of twenty-two passed us. 

 June 22d they were quite common in longitude 164° 55' W., 

 latitude 52° 9' N. Hab.. Pacific coast of North America, south to 

 Southern California. Nelson found this bird abundant on Wrangel 

 and Herald Islands. 



31. Uria lomvia arra. Pallas' Murre, "Ice Duck." 



These birds were met with in great abundance after entering 

 Bering Sea. The sailors call this murre the "Ice Duck," and its 

 appearance in large numbers is regarded as an indication of a near- 

 ness to ice. And indeed in the present case at least, this proved to 

 be true, for on the following day, June 27th, longitude 170° W., 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



latitude 60° 20' N., a large ice floe was encountered upon which 

 these birds were very abundant ; in fact, one might easily have mis- 

 taken parts of the floe for a rookery. Not only were they abun- 

 dant on the floe itself, but each detached block of ice seemed to have 

 its crew of" Ice Ducks." Off St. Lawrence Island July 1st, murres 

 were far more abundant than any other species of bird. At East 

 Cape, Siberia, July 26th, these birds were quite common. They 

 were met with constantly on the American side as far north as Icy 

 Cape. From this point on, very few were seen ; none were observed 

 to the east of Point Barrow. This species is easily distinguished by 

 the strong heavy bill. Four specimens from Nutchuk, Alaska, have 

 the culmen measuring 2.26 ins., 2.1,2.2, respectively. 2 Hab., coasts 

 and islands of Bering sea and Aleutian chain, from Kadiak to Kamt- 

 schatka. Nelson found this bird abundant on Harold and Wran- 

 gel Islands. 



STERCORARIIDJE. 



36. Stercorarius pomarinus. Pomarine Jaeger. 



Four of this species were seen June 20th, longitude 164° 56', lati- 

 tude 50° 56' N. They were common at Port Clarence during the 

 latter part of July. A fine male was taken at Icy Cape July 31st. 

 At no time, however, were the birds in question so abundant as S. 

 longieaudus. Hab., northern portions of the northern hemisphere, 

 along sea coasts and larger inland waters, breeding far northward 

 in America, south in winter to California, New Jersey and the 

 Great Lakes. 



37. Stercorarius parasiticus. Parasitic Jaeger. 



Parasitic Jaegers were not abundant at any time. One solitary 

 individual was seen June 28th in latitude 60° 40' N. ; two more 

 were observed the following day. On July 1st three Parasitic Jae- 

 gers were seen off St. Lawrence Island One specimen was shot at 

 Port Clarence July 23d. These birds were fairly common at Icy 

 Cape. On August 3d at this place two fine adults, a male and 

 female in black plumage, were taken (see Nos. 3,564 and 3,566 L. 

 S. J. U.). Hab , northern portion of northern hemisphere, breed- 

 ing toward Arctic regions ; south in winter to New York, southern 

 California, and even the coast of Brazil. 



2 See Nos. 3,376, 3,422, 3,423, 3,424, L. S. J. U. Nutchuk, Alaska, July 

 11, 1896, A. W. Greely. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



38. Sterocrarius longicaudus. Long-tailed Jaeger. 



This species could be seen at almost any time from July to Sep- 

 tember. They were abundant all along the coast from Icy Cape to 

 Herschel Island, N. W. T. They were abundant at Point Barrow 

 and seemed to be engaged chiefly in making life sorrowful for the 

 gulls. I noticed, however, that the big Glaucous Gull turned the 

 tables, and was frequently seen to chase the Jaegers. One adult 

 male was taken at Icy Cape, August 3d (No. 3,560 Stanford Uni- 

 versity). This specimen gives the following measurements : Wing, 

 13.5 ins. ; culmen, 1.27; cere, .75 ; tarsus, 1.75; mid-toe and claw, 

 1.65. Hab., northern parts of northern hemisphere, breeding in 

 Arctic regions, south in winter to California. 



LARID.2E. 



40. Rissa tridactyla pollicaris. Pacific Kittiwake. 



This beautiful bird was frequently observed in Bering Sea as far 

 north as Icy Cape, Alaska. Like the genus Larus, they have the 

 habit of following the vessel and watching for any food that may 

 be thrown over the side. They were most abundant off St. Law- 

 rence Island, July 1st. Two were shot at Icy Cape August 3d, 

 (see Nos. 3,563, 3,564 L. S. J. U.). Hab., coasts and islands of 

 Bering Sea north to Icy Cape. 

 40a. Rissa brevirostris. Red-legged Kittiwake. 



This species was more abundant than the preceding, especially in 

 the vicinity of the Aunamak Pass. Two specimens taken on St. 

 George Island July 26, 1897, give the following measurements: No. 

 3,530 Stanford University ; wing, 12.25 ins. ; culmen, 1.12 ; depth of 

 bill at nostrils, .45 ; tarsus, 1.12; mid-toe and claw, 1.76; No. 3,518 

 Stanford University : wing, 11.75 : culmen, 1.05 : depth of bill at 

 nostrils, .45; tarsus, 1.10; mid-toe and claw, 1.70. Feet and legs, 

 bright red, bill, greenish-yellow. Hab., coasts and islands of Ber- 

 ing Sea. 



42. Larus glaucus. Glaucous Gull. 



The big Glaucous Gulls were first observed June 29th, latitude 

 61° 32' N. They were not common, however, until we reached 

 Port Clarence, Alaska. Unlike most Gulls, this species is extremely 

 suspicious and rarely comes within gun shot of the vessel. We 

 found this Gull abundant from Port Clarence all along the Arctic 

 coast to Mackenzie Bay. A southern migration of these birds was 

 observed at Point Barrow, Alaska, September 15th ; it was a cold 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



rainy day with a strong wind blowing from the northwest. All the 

 day, band after band of these Gulls passed the point following the 

 coast line to the south ; in one of these bands I counted forty-eight 

 individuals, most of them adults. Hab., coasts of Arctic seas; 

 south in winter to Long Island and California. 



44. Larus glaucescens. Glaucous-winged Gull. 



The Glaucous-winged Gulls were fairly common from the Aleu- 

 tian Islands to the Bering Strait. They were seen to associate freely 

 with the smaller Gulls, and at times would come quite near the ves- 

 sel, differing in this respect from the L. glaums, which so far as we 

 could see did not associate much with the other species. 



Two specimens taken at Orca Station, S. W. Alaska, give the fol- 

 lowing measurements: No. 3,425 (L. S. J. U.) ; wing, 17 ; culmen, 

 2.56 ; depth of bill through angle, .84 ; depth of bill through nos- 

 trils, .80; tarsus, 2.86; mid-toe with claw, 3.20; tail, 7.18: No. 

 3,4'26 (L. S. J. U.): wing, 17.5; culmen, 2.36 ; depth of bill at 

 angle, .90 ; depth of bill at nostrils, .80 ; tarsus, 2.86 ; mid-toe and 

 claw, 3.28 ; tail, 7.3. Hab., coasts of the north Pacific and Bering 

 Sea, from Japan northwest, across through Aleutian chain, and south 

 in winter to California. 



51a. Larus argentatus smithsonianus. American Herring Gull. 



Birds ascribed to this species came flying about our vessel near 

 Unalaska and also near Aunamak Island. No specimens were 

 secured. Hab., whole of North America, south in winter to Cuba 

 and Lower California. 



53. Larus califomicus. California Gull. 



No specimens were taken, but birds ascribed to this species were 

 met with quite frequently near Aunamak Pass. Hab., western 

 North America, chiefly in the interior, from Mexico to Alaska. 



55. Larus brachyrhynchus. American Mew Gull. 



Birds of this species were frequently observed along the Alaskan 

 coast as far north as Icy Cape, one specimen being shot at this place 

 July 30th. Hab., northwestern North America breeding far north ; 

 south in winter along the Pacific coast to Southern California. 

 62. Xema sabinii. Sabine's Gull. 



These Gulls were first observed about ten miles off Icy Cape, 

 Alaska, where a company of five came flying over the ice and passed 

 our vessel. On August 8th these gulls were extremely abundant at 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



Point Barrow, congregating in thousands along the shore to feed 

 upon small Cielenterates and Crustaceans that were washed up on 

 the sands. When we again reached Point Barrow, September 8th, 

 these birds were in the height of their southern migration, and 

 bands composed of from fifty to one hundred individuals were con- 

 stantly passing, but this time paying little attention to the food that 

 was still abundant along the shore. Xema Gulls were not seen at 

 Herschel Island until August 28th. The absence of immature 

 birds was a striking fact; almost all of these Gulls that we observed 

 were adults. Two young, however, were shot at Point Barrow Sep- 

 tember 12th. Hab., Pacific coast of North America from Monterey, 

 California, N. to Point Barrow, east, New York, Great Lakes, 

 (casually to Bermudas and Peru). 



71. Sterna paradisaea. Arctic Tern. 



The first representative of this species was seen June 6th, longi- 

 tude 141° W., latitude 52° 37' N. The poor bird seemed to have 

 been battling with the storm for some time and to be completely 

 tired out ; it alighted in our rigging and remained with us all day. 

 By June 20th Terns were very common, and eight or ten could be 

 counted from the deck of the vessel at one time. Two specimens 

 were shot at Port Clarence, Alaska, July 8th. Terns were quite 

 abundant at Point Barrow August 12th and at Herschel Island 

 August 27th. Hab., circumpolar regions, south in winter to Cali- 

 fornia. Another species of Tern supposed to have been Sterna aleu- 

 tica was observed quite frequently in the Bering Sea. We were un- 

 able to obtain a specimen however. 



DIOMEDEIDJE. 



82. Diomedea albatrus. Short-tailed Albatross. 



The first Short-tailed Albatross was observed May 26th, about 

 eighteen miles off Cape Flattery. Two were seen June 1st in longi- 

 tude 134° 16' W., latitude 51° 6' N. ; the day following another was 

 observed. This completes the record of all seen during our entire 

 voyage. These birds, unlike the Black-footed Albatross, do not fol- 

 low after a vessel. Hab., North Pacific from California to Alaska. 



81. Diomedea nigripes. Black-footed Albatross. " Goonie." 



On May 27th, about one hundred miles northwest of Cape Flat- 

 tery, these birds of the open sea were first sighted. From that time 

 until June 21st they were always in evidence about our vessel. The 

 last " Goonie," however, deserted us when we came in sight of the 




134 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898' 



snowy mountains of the Aleutian Islands. These birds offer a never 

 failing source of interest and instruction to the ocean traveller when 

 the sails flap idly against the mast and the voyage stretches out to a 

 wearisome length. As a matter of curiosity I made it a point at a 

 certain time each day to count and note down the number of Black- 

 footed Albatrosses that could be seen from the deck of the vessel, 

 the position of our vessel and any peculiar hydrographic conditions. 

 I copy the resulting table from my note book. 



Date. 



May 27 

 May 28 

 May 29 

 May 30 

 May 31 



June 

 June 

 June 

 June 

 June 

 June 

 June 

 June 

 June 

 June 10 

 June 11 

 June 12 

 June 13 

 June 14 

 June 15 

 June 16 

 June 17 

 June 18 

 June 19 

 June 20 

 June 21 

 June 22 

 June 23 



Longitude W. 



126° 40' 



122° 

 131° 

 131° 34 / 

 134° 16' 



12 / 

 20 / 



154° 41' 

 154° 41' 

 158° 43' 

 159° 58' 



164° 56' 



164° 55" 



Hydrographic Conditions 



Light breeze 



Fresh breeze 



Rough sea 



Gale 



Heavy sea ; little wind 



Calm 



Becalmed 



Fog ; strong breeze 



Calm 



Fresh breeze 



Rain 



Cold rain ; strong wind 



Rain ; heavy wind 



Warm and pleasant 



Strong breeze 



Slight breeze 



Cold ; calm 



Calm 



Slight breeze 



Fair breeze 



Calm ; cold 



High fog ; warm 



Fog 



Fresh breeze 



Fog; good breeze 



Fog ; cold 



Becalmed 



Becalmed 



Number 

 of 



Albatrosses. 



6 

 8 

 7 

 5 



11 



19 

 8 

 7 



17 

 7 

 7 

 6 

 7 

 8 

 8 



12 

 8 

 3 

 4 

 3 

 3 

 3 

 4 

 3 

 2 

 2 



1 

 



From the above table it would seem that in this case, at least, the 

 Black-footed Albatross during the early month of June is found 

 most abundant in latitudes between 50° and 52° north, and that 

 they are seen in greater numbers about a vessel on calm days. A 

 fine specimen of this species was taken May 11th by letting a 

 baited hook over the side of the vessel, the hook catching merely in 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



the horny part of the beak and dropping out when we got the bird 

 on deck. It was utterly helpless on deck, being unable to fly 

 unless from the water. This bird, after having his beak tied so as to 

 restrain his vicious tendency to bite, was given the freedom of the 

 vessel. 



On one or two occasions among the birds that followed close to the 

 stern of our vessel I noticed specimens that were marked slightly 

 differently from the one taken. I suspect these belong to one of the 

 other species reported from the North Pacific, but as no specimens 

 could be taken, nothing was definitely established. Hab., North 

 Pacific. 



PROCELLARIIDiE. 



86b. Fulmarus glacialis glupischa. Pacific Fulmar. 



A large flock of dark-bodied birds, in appearance very much like 

 Pacific Fulmars, was observed some distance from the ship June 

 20th, latitude about 51° N. A heavy fog closing in, however, pre- 

 vented us from getting a more satisfactory observation of the birds. 

 The next day Pacific Fulmars were frequently seen quite near the 

 vessel. On June 24th, great rafts of these birds were seen on the 

 water in the Aunamak Pass ; among these were quite a number of 

 the white ones. Just after entering the Bering Sea we passed a 

 great flight of Pacific Fulmars all making their way to the westward 

 against a heavy gale of wind. They would fly a short distance, 

 then settle upon the water and rest a moment, and then try it again. 

 They always arose facing the wind and also sat on the water in the 

 same position. The dark Pacific Fulmar was not seen north of 

 Bering Strait. When in the North Pacific on our return voyage, 

 September 25th, a large number of these Fulmars, (" bousins " they 

 are called by the sailors), came flying about our vessel in the man- 

 ner of the Black-footed Albatross, except that the Fulmars flew 

 quite high, most of the time making a peculiar sharp cry. They 

 followed the ship, circling around and over us almost the entire day. 

 Hab., North Pacific to Mexico. 



86c. Fulmarus glacialis rodgersii. Rodger's Fulmar. 



A Rodger's Fulmar was shot June 29th latitude 61° 3' N. Very 

 few were seen, however, until we reached East Cape, Siberia, where 

 they were common. On September 19th when about sixty miles 

 west of Point Barrow, Rodger's Fulmars could be seen almost any 

 time during the day following after our vessel, as if expecting food 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



to be thrown over to them. They had probably learned to expect 

 food from ships by being near the whaling vessels while they were 

 " cutting in " or " trying out " a whale, at which time large quanti- 

 ties of fat and refuse are thrown over the side. Hab., Bering Sea, 

 Arctic Ocean north to Point Barrow. 



91. Puffinus creatopus. Pink-footed Shearwater. 



A great flight of Pink-footed Shearwaters was observed May 

 26th about fifteen miles off Cape Flattery. They were passing to 

 the north in a continuous stream. I watched from the deck of our 

 vessel for over an hour, during which time many hundreds passed, 

 frequently flying quite near us. Their large size, white breasts and 

 wheeling flight were unmistakable. Our vessel interrupted their 

 line of flight, but they simply divided, part of the stream going by 

 on one side, and part on the other. Never for a moment did they 

 stop the steady flow to the north. The Pink-footed Shearwaters 

 were not met with again during our entire trip. Hab., Eastern 

 Pacific Ocean, Cape Flattery to Chili. 



95. Puffinus griseus. Dark-bodied Shearwater. 



A few Dark-bodied Shearwaters were observed May 26th off 

 Cape Flattery. They were flying north in company with the Puf- 

 finus creatopus. Dark-bodied Shearwaters were again observed 

 June 22d in longitude 164° 55' W., latitude 52° 9' N., about sixty 

 miles south of the Aleutian Islands. At this point we encountered 

 and for several hours sailed parallel to a great flight of these birds. 

 During this time thousands of individuals passed us in Bteady flight, 

 all going to the westward. 



Oceanodroma (?). Petrels. 



Concerning Petrels I have the following entry in my note book : 

 June 16th, longitude 159° 58' W„ latitude 51° 56' N. For the 

 past two or three nights there has been a number of small bat-like 

 birds flying about our vessel keeping up an almost constant sound 

 of low musical notes. The sailors call them " Mother Carey's 

 Chickens." I was not able to secure a specimen for identification. 

 They may have been 0. furcata. 



Birds well answering the description of 0. furcata were observed 

 May 28th. They were flying about in the wake of our vessel, 

 skimming gracefully over the waves and occasionally dashing 

 through the spray as if they enjoyed the rough sea. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 137 



PHALACROCORACIDJE. 



123a. Phalacrocorax. Cormorants. 



Probaby not more than two dozen Cormorants were seen during 

 our entire voyage. No specimens were shot. Three small individ- 

 uals of this genus were seen on a small island in the Aunamak Pass, 

 which is our first northern record for " Shags." These were a 

 small species (possibly P. p. robustus). Seven Cormorants of a 

 larger species (possibly P. urile) were observed off Aunamak 

 Island. A few were also seen in the vicinity of Point Hope. All 

 the Cormorants met with seemed extremely wild, keeping well out 

 of range of a shot gun. This is rather surprising when one consid- 

 ers how tame and fearless the Shags are near Monterey, California,,, 

 where they are being shot at constantly. 



ANATIDJE. 



154. Clangula hyemalis. Old-squaw. 



Along the Arctic coast from Point Barrow eastward to the Mac- 

 kenzie River, the scarcity of bird-life as compared with that of 

 Bering Sea is quite striking. In fact, were we to disregard Old- 

 squaws, Glaucous Gulls, and an occasional straggling band of Eider 

 Ducks, our records for this part of the voyage would be chiefly a 

 blank. With the exception of Eider Ducks, Old-squaws were the 

 most abundant water fowl met with in the Arctic. At Point Bar- 

 row, September 12th, a great migration of Old-squaws was going 

 on, thousands were passing to the south ; many were shot. Their 

 meat, however, is not considered good eating, except by the natives. 

 Hab., northern portions of northern hemisphere, south in winter 

 nearly across the United States. 



158. Arctonetta fischeri. Spectacled Eider. 



A young Spectacled Eider was taken about fifty miles off Icy 

 Cape, Alaska, August 2d. This was the only one of the species 

 seen. 



A few skins from the heads of the adult ducks were seen in the 

 possession of the natives at Point Barrow, where they are highly 

 prized as articles of ornamentation. The Spectacled Eider is re- 

 ported as being rarely seen on the American side, although abundant 

 on the Siberian coast. Hab., coast of Alaska from Northern Sound- 

 to Point Barrow. 



10 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



161. Somateria v-nigra. Pacific Eider. 



This is the most abundant wild fowl at Point Barrow. During 

 their spring and fall migration the very sky is clouded with their 

 flight. They form an important article of diet for the natives and 

 other persons stationed at Point Barrow. Hab., northeastern 

 America, south to Great Lakes. 



162. Somateria speotabilis. King Eider. 



Very few King Eider were seen. One specimen was taken Aug. 

 7th at Point Barrow, while flying in company with the Pacific 

 Eiders. Hab., northern portions of northern hemisphere, south in 

 winter to Great Lakes. 



164. Oidemia deglandi. White-winged Scoter. 



One flock of about sixteen White- winged Scoters observed about 60 

 miles east of Point Barrow is our only record for this species. Hab., 

 northern North America, south in winter to the Great Lakes. 



166. Oidemia perspicillata. Surf Scoter. 



A few straggling companies of Surf Scoters were seen in longi- 

 tude 159° 58' W., latitude 51° 56' N. A great flock of these Ducks 

 passed us June 22d when a few miles off Unalaska. They were 

 abundant at King's Island. Hab., North America in general. 



169. Chen hyperboreus. Snow Goose. 



This Goose was fairly common at Herschel Island during the 

 latter part of August, when several flocks were seen flying south. 

 The native hunters brought in a number killed at the mouth of the 

 Mackenzie River August 23d. Hab., western North America, 

 breeding in Alaska. 



174. Branta nigricans. Black Brant. 



A number of Black Brant were brought in by the natives at Her- 

 schel Island ; they do not seem to be very abundant near the 

 island however. No live individuals of this species were seen. 

 Hab., western Arctic America, south in winter to Lower California. 



A LIST OF LAND AND SHORE BIRDS COLLECTED IN ALASKA OR 



ADJACENT ISLANDS IN THE SUMMER OF 1897 BY 



MESSRS. ARTHUR W. GREELY AND 



ROBERT E. SNODGRASS. 3 



222. Crymophilus fulicarius. Red Phalarope. 



Four specimens from St. Paul Island, August 31st. 



3 All the above specimens are now in the museum of Natural History at 

 Stanford University, California. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



223. Phalaropus lobatus. Northern Phalarope. 



Five specimens from St. Paul Island, August 17th. 



236. Tringa oouesi. Aleutian Sandpiper. 



Five specimens, St. Paul Island, August 17th. 



237. Tringa ptilocnemis. Pribyloff Sandpiper. 



Six specimens, St. Paul Island, August 22d. 



238. Tringa acuminata. Sharp-tailed Sandpiper. 



One specimen, St. Paul Island, August 19th. 

 242. Tringa minutilla. Least Sandpiper. 



Two specimens from Bellovski Bay, July 27th. 

 254. Totanus melanoleucus. Greater Yellow-legs. 



One specimen from St. Paul Island, August 23d. 

 259. Heteractites incanus. Wandering Tattler. 



Four specimens, St. Paul Island, August 22d. 



302. Lagopus rupestris. Rock Ptarmigan. 



One specimen. 



523. Leucosticte griseonucha. Aleutian Leucosticte. 



Four specimens from St. George Island, July 25th. 



534a. Plectrophenax nivalis townsendi. Pribyloff Snowflake. 

 Four specimens, St. George Island, July 25th. 



536. Calcarius lapponicus. Lapland Longspur. 



Eight specimens, St. George Island, July 25th. 



542. Ammodramus sandwichensis. Sandwich Sparrow. 



Fourteen specimens from Amagak Island, September 15th. 



557. Zonotrichia coronata. Golden-crowned Sparrow. 



One specimen from Unga Island, July 22d. 



582. Melospiza cinerea. Aleutian Song Sparrow. 



Four specimens from Amagak Island, September 17th. 

 585. Passerella ihaca unalaschcensis. Fox Sparrow. 



Ten specimens from Unga Island, July 21st. 

 723. Troglodytes alascensis. Alaskan Wren. 



One specimen from Amagak Island, September 17th. 

 765. Saxicola oenanthe. Wheatear. 



One specimen from St. Paul Island, August 29th. 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



LIST OF BIRDS COLLECTED AT KADIAK, ALASKA, IN 1896 BY 

 MR. CLOUDSLEY BUTTER. 



12. Lunda cirrhata. Tufted Puffin. 



30a. Uria troile californica. California Murre. 



129. Merganser americanus. American Merganser. 



146. Aytha americana. Redhead. 



301. Lagopus lagopus. Willow Ptarmigan. 



302. Lagopus rupestris. Rock Ptarmigan. 

 352. Haliaeetus leucocephalus. Bald Eagle. 

 475. Pica pica hudsonica. American Magpie. 

 486a. Corvus corax principalis. Northern Raven. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



ODONATA (DRAGONFLIES) FROM THE INDIAN OCEAN, AND FROM 

 KASHMIR, COLLECTED BY DR. W. L. ABBOTT. 1 



BY PHILIP P. CALVERT, PH. D. 



Dr. W. L. Abbott, of Philadelphia, made collections of Odonata 

 in the Aldabra (Lat. 9° 25' S., Long. 46° E.), and the Glorioso (Lat. 

 11° 40' S., Long. 47° 33' E.), and the Seychelle Islands in the Indian 

 Ocean, and in Kashmir, which he sent to the U. S. National 

 Museum. These, by the direction of the late Dr. C. V. Riley, were 

 sent to me for study. Their consideration is here grouped under two 

 heads. 



I. From the Indian Ocean. 



A number of papers treating of the Odonata of some of these islands 

 lying near Madagascar already exist. As far as they are known to 

 me they are given below, in chronological order. 2 



1 Based on collections of the U. S. National Museum, Washington, D. C. 

 Researches made in the laboratories of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia, and of the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. 



* de Selys-Longchamps, E. NeVropteres. Annexe K. pp. 32-35, in Notes 

 sur l'Ue de la Reunion par L. Maillard. Seconde Partie. Paris, Dentu, Edit- 

 or, 1862. 6 spp. Reunion (Bourbon). 19 spp. Mauritius (Ile-de-France). 



Brauer, F. Neue exotische Odonaten. Yerhl. k. k. Zool.-bot. Gesell. 

 Wien., xvii, pp. 811-816, 1867. 1 n. sp. Mauritius. See on this Karsch. 

 Ent. Nach., xx, p. 382, 1894. 



"Wright, E. P. Notes on the Dragonflies of the Seychelles. Ann. Mag. 

 Nat. Hist. (4), iii, pp. 270-272. April, 1869. 



de Selys Longchamps, E. List of Species and Description of a new 

 Genus and five new species of Dragonflies (Odonata) from the Seychelles. 

 Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (4) iii, pp. 272-277. April, 1869. 9 spp. 



de Selys-Longchamps. E. Odonates des iles Seychelles. Ann. Soc Ent. 

 Belg , xii, p. 95-99. Read March 6, 1869 (see /. c, p. Iii). Essentially 

 the same as the preceding. 



de Selys Longchamps, E. Enumeration des Odonates de Madagascar et des 

 Iles Comores et Mascareignes. in Recherches sur la Faune de Madagascar et de 

 ses Dependances d'apres les decouvertes de Francois P. L. Pollen et D. C. 

 Van Dam., 5 me Partie. 1 re livraison. Leyde, J. K. SteenhofF, editeur., 

 1869. 31 (?) spp. Madagascar, 7 spp. Nossi-B^, 3 spp. Comoro Is., 21 (?) spp. 

 Mauritius, 9 spp. Bourbon, 1 sp. Rodriguez. 



de Selys-Longchamps, E. Note sur plusieurs Odonates de Madagascar et 

 des ils Mascareignes. Revue et Mag. Zool (2) xxiii, pp. 175-183. April, 

 1872. Supplementary to the preceding; suppresses 1 sp. Madagascar, 1 sp. 

 Mauritius as synonyms. 



McLachlan, R. A new dragonfly of the genus Anax from Madagascar. Ent. 

 Mo. Mag., xxi, pp. 250-251, 1885. 1 n. sp. 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



No previously published records for the Odonata of the Aldabra 

 and Glorioso Islands appear to exist. Brief accounts of their recent 

 visits to the former are given by Mr. T. Risely Griffith and Dr. 

 Abbott in the Bulletin of Miscellaneous Information, Royal Gar- 

 dens, Kew, 1893, p. 152 et seq., but these contain nothing as regards 

 insects. A list of the plants collected by Dr. Abbott in the Aldabras 

 is given in the same Bulletin, 1894, pp. 146-150. Dr. Abbott's own 

 " Notes on the Natural History of Aldabra, Assumption and Glor- 

 ioso Islands, Indian Ocean," in Proceedings U. S. National Museum, 

 XVI, pp. 759-764, 1894, mention the Pantala Jiavescens referred to 

 in this paper. 3 



In the present paper seven species are mentioned. Five, from the 

 Seychelles, were already known to exist there, but some additional 

 details on their structure or relationships are given. Two species 

 are from the Glorioso Islands, one from Aldabra. 



Subfamily AGRIONINJS. 



1. Leptocnemis bilineata Selys. 



Hemicnemis bilineata Selys Ann. Soc. Ent. Belg., xii, p. 28, 1869. Martin, 

 Mem. Soc. Zool. France, 1896, p. 108. 



Two males, Mahe Is., Seychelles. 



Kirby, W. F. A Revision of the Subfamily Libellulinse, etc Trans. Zool. 

 Soc. Lond., xii, pp. 249-348. Pis. li-lvii, 1889. 1 n. sp., Madagascar, p. 

 317. 



Karsch, F. Beschreibung einer neuen Libelluline Madagaskar's. Ent. 

 Nach., xv, pp. 276-277, 1889. Berl. Ent. Zeit., xxxiii, p. 352, 1890. A 

 synonym. 



Karsch, F. Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Libellulinen mit vierseitiger cellula 

 cardinalis ( Nannophya Rambur). Ent. Nach., xv, pp. 245-263, 1889. In. 

 sp. Madagascar, p. 252. 



Karsch, F. Ueber Goraphiden. Ent. Nach., xvi, pp. 370-382, 1890. 

 Adds 1 n. sp. of Gomphinae for Madagascar. 



de Selys-Longchamps, E. Causeries Odonatologiques no. 6. Les Gom- 

 phines d'Afrique. Ann. Soc. Ent. Belg., xxxvi, pp. 86-107, 1892. Adds 2 

 n. spp. Madagascar, 2 n. spp. Nossi-Be. 



Calvert, P. P. Preliminary notes on some African Odonata. Trans. Am. 

 Ent. Soc, xix, pp. 161-164, 1892 Notes on 2 spp. Seychelles. 



de Selys Longchamps, E. Causeries Odonatologiques no. 7. Ann. Soc. 

 Ent. Belg., xxxviii, pp. 163-181, 1894. Adds 1 n. sp. Gomphinse Madagas- 

 car. 



Calvert, P. P. East African Odonata. collected by Dr. W. L. Abbott. 

 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. xviii, pp. 121-142, 1895 [1896]. Notes on 4 spp. 

 Seychelles. See also Calvert. P. P. Ent. Nach., xxii, p. 215, 1896. 



Martin, R. Odonates des lies Seychelles. Mem. Soc. Zool. France, 1896, 

 pp. 101-112. 20 spp., 5 new. Adds also 3 spp. for Madagascar. 



3 Since the above was written, Dr. A. Voeltzkow has given an account of 

 his recent visit to Aldabra, with references to the literature of previous visits 

 by other travellers, in Abhandlungen von der Senckenbergischen Naturforsch- 

 enden Gesellschaft, xxi, 1. Frankfurt, 1897. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



Subfamily LIBELLULINJE. 



2. Pantala flavescens Fabricius. 



Four males Glorioso Is., one of them dated Jan. 28, 1893. Four 

 males, eight females, Aldabra Is. 



3. Tramea basilaris Beauvois. 



Libellula basilaris Beauvois Ins. rec. Afrique et Amer. p. 171, pi. ii, f. 1, 1805' 

 Synonym? Tramea Burmeisteri Kirby, Trans. Zool. Soc London, xii, p. 316, 



1889. 



One male, four females, Glorioso Is., the male and one female 

 dated Jan. 29, 1893. 



Mr. Kirby states (I. c.) that his Burmeisteri is " nearly allied to 

 the African T. basilaris Beauv., in which, however (judging from 

 the single broken specimen before me), the yellow area on the hind 

 wings is much less extended, aud the opaque spaces (of which the 

 upper one is much more extended) is nearly black." 



In all these Glorioso individuals, the yellow area on the hind 

 wings extends from the base outward as far as the external angle 

 of the triangle ; in the male it reaches backward (caudad) to the 

 anal ' angle,' in the females back to three-fourths of the width of the 

 wing-base; as regards the extent of the yellow area, therefore, these 

 individuals have, in Mr. Kirby 's view, a character of Burmeisteri 

 rather than of basilaris. 



On the other hand, the upper basal band of the hind wings of 

 Burmeisteri fills up " more or less of the lower basal cell and part 

 of the wing below [the italics are mine] adjacent as far as the base 

 of the triangle" (Kirby, I. c). In these Glorioso females, but not 

 in the male, the blackish-brown fills up the basilar [median of Selys, 

 1896] space (=upper basal cell of Kirby), the subcostal space to 

 the first (1 9 ) or second (3 9) antecubital, and parts of the supra- 

 triangular space and of the triangle as well asthe "lower basal cell 

 and part of the wing below adjacent"; this distribution of the 

 dark color is a character of basilaris. In the Glorioso male the 

 brown on the hind wings is reddish-brown and therefore paler than 

 in the females; it fills the " lower basal cell and part of the wing 

 below adjacent " and extends into the triangle, and is separated from 

 a second, wider reddish-brown band extending from the inner mar- 

 gin to the distal subbasal sector although not actually touching 

 either margin or sector; this second band therefore does not "run 

 from the base of the sector of the triangle " as in Burmeisteri. 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



I have before me also two males from Madagascar, similar to the 

 one described above, sent to me by M. Martin as basilaris. 



Altogether I think that the probability is that basilaris and Bur- 

 meisteri are color extremes of one and the same species. 



It may be recorded here that in these Glorioso individuals the 

 first pair of legs are blackish like the others, that the genital ham- 

 ule of the male projects beyond the genital lobe, that the inferior 

 appendage of the male is half as long as the superiors and reaches to 

 the last denticle thereof, the superiors being longer than 9+10 but 

 shorter than 8+9+10, and that the vulvar lamina of the female is 

 three-fourths as long as 9, bilobed in its own apical three-fourths, 

 and her appendages as long as 9+10. 



This species has not been recorded from the Seychelles. 



4. Tramea continentalis Selys. 



Selys, Mitth. Dresdner Mus., Hi, p. 299, 1878. Martin, Mem. Soc. Zool. 

 France, 1896, p. 102. 



One male, one female, Mahe Is., Seychelles. 



The male is the same form so identified by M. Martin as he has 

 sent me one of his Seychelle specimens. The female is like those 

 he mentions in his last sentence (J. c.) "Certaines femelles n'ont 

 menie qu'une petite tache marron tres courte, le long de la mera- 

 branule et le surplus de la tache normale est indique' par une teinte 

 jaune brule tr&s clair, presque limpide." A male in my collection 

 from West Madagascar by Hildebrandt, formerly in the Museum 

 fur Naturkunde, Berlin, where it stood as T. limbata is of the same 

 species and Mr. Kirby's description of Tramea madagasearensis 

 (Trans. Zool. Soc, London, XII, p. 317, 1889) also applies here. 

 Unfortunately even M. Martin does not give a sufficiently full state- 

 ment of the distinctions between limbata Desjardins and continentalis 

 Selys, and it is not certain that the insect I have described as T. 

 limbata (Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. xviii, p. 121 ; Ent. Nachr. xxii, p. 

 217, 1896) really is such. 



In these two continentalis — the male has the hamule projecting 

 •considerably beyond the genital lohe, the superior appendages are 

 almost as long as 8+9+10, the inferior appendage is almost half as 

 long as the superiors and reaches slightly beyond their denticles ; 

 the female has the vulvar lamina seven-eighths as long as 9, bilobed 

 in its apical three-fourths, the appendages as long as 9+10. 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



145 



5. Orthetrum wrightii Selys. 



Lib'ellula wiigkHifkA.ja, Ann. Soc. Ent. Belg, xii, p. 96, 1869; Ann. Mag. 

 Nat. Hist. (4), iii, p. 272, 1869. O. W. Calvert, Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc, xix, 

 p. 163,1892; Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., xviii, p. 134, fig. 12, 1896. Martin, 

 Mem. Zool. Soc, France, 1896, p. 102. 



Ten males, two females, Mahe Is., Seychelles. 



The pale spot on the upper surface of the frons, enclosed by blue- 

 black, is yellow in some individuals instead of olive. The front 

 wings with 12-14 antenodals, 9-10 postnodals, the internal triangle 

 4-celled in one male only. Inner side of the triangle of the hind 

 wings in the prolongation of the arculus in all. 



Having recently studied the type of 0. stemmale Burm. from 

 Mauritius, now in the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Cam- 

 bridge, Massachusetts, I have reached the conclusion that wrightii 

 is but a race thereof, as the only differences I can find are the 



following : 



Rhinariuru 



Black at the mid- 

 dle of the base 

 of the labrum 

 reaching 



Superior surfaces 

 of second and 

 and third fem- 

 ora and of first 

 and second tibise 



Inferior append- 

 age of the male 

 compared to the 

 superiors 



Total length 

 Abdomen (length) 

 Front wing (length) 

 Hind wing (length) 

 Pterostigma 



front wing 



hind wing 



stemmale, $ 



darker than nasus 



half-way to the 

 free margin 



luteous 



one-fifth 

 shorter 



50 mm. 

 34 mm. 

 36.5 mm. 

 34.5 mm. 



3.6 

 4. 



mm. 

 mm. 



wrightii, $ 9 



concolorous with nasus. 



to the free margin (except 

 in one young $ where 

 it reaches hardly half- 

 way.) 



black (or reddish-brown 

 in some immature 

 males.) 



one-fourth to one- third 

 shorter. 



46-39 $ , 44-41 9 

 31.5-27 ,£,31-28.5 9 

 34-29 $ 9 

 32-28 2 9 



3.4-3. $ 9 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



The data here given for Wrightii are based on the twelve individ- 

 uals above cited and on eight males and three females sent me by 

 M. Martin. 



Among Dr. Abbott's specimens of this species are one male and 

 one female, not in the least pruinose on thorax and base of abdomen, 

 which have the frons and the labrum luteous without black except 

 at the base of the frons. 



6. Schizonyx luctifera Selys. 



Zygonyx ? luctifera Selys, Ann. Soc. Ent. Belg , xii, p. 96, 1869- Martin, 

 Mem. Soc. Zool. France, 1896, p. 103. S. I. Calvert. Trans. Am. Ent. Soc 

 xix, p. 163, 1892; Proa U. S. Nat. Mus., xviii, p. 122, fig. 3. 1896 (Addi- 

 tional bibliography in this last). 



Two males, Mahe Is., Seychelles. The internal triangle of the 



front wings is of three cells. 



7. Diplacodes trivialis Rambur. 



Libellula trivialis Ramb. Ins. Nevr., p. 115, 1842. 

 Trithemis t. Martin, Mem. Soc. Zool., France, 1896, p. 102. 



One male, two females, Mahe Is., Seychelles. 



This species has been referred to Trithemis by recent authors, but 



is surely a Diplacodes. 



II. From Kashmir. 



There does not appear to be anything in print treating especially 

 of the Odonata of Kashmir, although a number of species from this 

 and neighboring regions have been described, chiefly by Baron de 

 Selys, in systematic papers. The following faunal articles are use- 

 ful for comparison 4 . 



The collection made by Dr. Abbott comprises 82 specimens of 

 fifteen species. These are merely labelled "Kashmir" with the 



* McLachlan, R. Scientific results of the Second Yarkand Expedition, etc. 

 Calcutta, 1878. 



Brauer, F. Verzeichniss der von Fedtschenko in Turkestan gesammelten 

 Odonaten. Verhdl. K. K. Zool. bot Gesell. Wien, xxx, pp. 229-232, 1880. 



Kirby, W. F. On a small collection of Dragonflies from Murree and Camp- 

 bellpore (N. W. India), etc. Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1886, pp. 325-329. 



de Selys-Longchamps, E. Odonates de l'Asie Mineure et Revision de 

 ceux des autres parties de la Faune dite Europe'enne. Ann. Soc. Ent. Belg. 

 xxxi, pp. 2-85, 1887. 



de Selys-Longchamps, E. Insecta in itinere CI. N. Przewalskii in Asia 

 Centrali novissime lecta, XL Horse Soc. Ent. Ross., xxi, pp 441-447, 1887. 



McLachlan, R. On two small collections of Neuroptera from Ta chien-lu, 

 in the Province of Szechuen. Western China, on the frontier of Thibet. Ann. 

 Mag. Nat. Hist. (6), xii, pp. 421-436, 1894. 



McLachlan, R. On Odonata from the Province of Szechuen in Western 

 China, and from Moupin, in Eastern Thibet. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (6), 

 xvii, pp. 364-374, 1896. 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



147 



elevation above or below which they were collected. The U. S. Na- 

 tional Museum does not possess any more precise data, which is the 

 more unfortunate as such exist for the mammals and birds collected 

 in this region by Dr. Abbott, and may be found in the papers by 

 Messrs. True and Richmond respectively, in the Proceedings of the 

 U. S. National Museum, volumes XVII and XVIII. 



Of the fifteen species ten are well-known as occurring in Europe 

 and a large part of Northern and western Asia, three (Ischnura in- 

 armata n. sp., Orthetrum hyalinum, 0. triangulare) are Indian in 

 their relationships, one is the cosmopolitan Pantala flavescens and 

 one (Ophiogomphus reductus n. sp.) is allied to Palsearctic species of 

 a Holarctic genus. 



Subfamily AGRIONIN-ffi. 



1. Lestes barbarus Fabr. 



One female " below 5,000 f." It differs from European examples 

 only by its slightly shorter pterostigma. 



This species has previously been recorded from Persia and Turk- 

 estan. 



2. Isohnura inarmata n. sp. Figs. 1, 2. 



Two males, three females, ," below 5,000 f." 



Abdomen $ 23-22, 9 22. Hind wing $ 16-15, 9 16-18. 



Agree in many respects with de Selys' description of /. delicata 



Fig. 1. Fig. 2. 



Fig. 1. Profile view, right side of tenth abdominal segment and the term- 

 inal appendages of Ischnura inarmata n. sp. S Fig. 2. The same, viewed 

 obliquely from above and behind. RS right superior appendage, LS left super- 

 ior appendage, RI right inferior appendage, LI left inferior appendage, P in- 

 ferior process of the superior appendage. The irregular, curved line on the 

 side of the tenth segment in figure 1 indicates the boundary between black 

 above and blue below. 5 x 20. 



5 All the drawings which illustrate this paper have been made with the aid 

 of Leitz or Zeiss lenses and the camera lucida. 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



(=aurora Brauer), (Bull. Acad. Roy. Belg. [2] xli, p. 281, 1876) 

 but differ therefrom as follows : 



S . — Pterostigma of the front wings entirely reddish, not whitish 

 at the outer end. Antennae (except the first joint which is green) 

 black. Pale postocular spots rather large, elongate. No spine near 

 the " echancrure mesothoracique." Sides of the thorax pale green, a 

 very fine black line on the second lateral suture. Abdominal seg- 

 ment 2 with a dorsal black band from base to apex ; articulations 

 between 3 and 4, 4 and 5, and 5 and 6 black, 5 with a small dorsal 

 anteapical black spot. Dorsum of 6 orange in the basal third to 

 fifth, dark metallic green for the remainder ; of 7 entirely dark 

 metallic green ; 8 and 9 blue, unspotted, dorsum of 10 black which 

 may be invaded by the blue of the sides at the middle of each side. 

 The appendages blackish ; superiors as described for delicata, infer- 

 iors pale at base, twice as long as the superiors and nearly as long 

 as 10. Figs. 1 and 2. 



9 • — Inferior side of the pterostigma as long as the costal side. 

 Head colored as in the above described males. Dorsum of abdom- 

 inal segments 1-10 dark metallic green, the articulations with nar- 

 row, yellow, transverse rings. 



Subfamily ^JSCHNINJE. 



3. Anax parthenope Selys. Figs. 3 A-E. 



Selys, Bull. Acad. Belg., vi (2), p. 389, 1839. Ann. Soc. Ent. Belg., xxvii, 

 p. 116, 1883. 



Anax bacchus Hagen, Verhdl. k. k. zool. bot. Gesell. Wien , xvii, p. 48, 



1867. 



One male, three fem- 

 ales "below 5,000 f.",one 



male "5—10,000 f." 

 Abdomen $ 9 46-49 



mm., hind wing $ 46- 



49, 9 49-51. 



Hagen described A. 



bacchus from a single 



female in his collection, 



from the Himalayas, of 



which he says that it 



"is throughout so close 



to parthenope in size, 



Fig. B. form, color and mark- 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



149 



Fig. E. 

 Fig. 3 A-E x 25. 

 Hind margin of the occiput of Anax parthen- 

 ope, 9 showing variations in the two processes or 

 "horns." A. Individual from Kashmir {bacchus 

 Hagen), B from Kashmir, C from Indre, France, 

 D from Yokohama showing asymmetry, E from 

 Yokohama. ME hind margins of the eyes. 



ings that I long held it 

 for the same species." 

 He then gives a number 

 of differences which, he 

 believes, distinguish the 

 two forms. 



With the more abun- 

 dant material above 

 cited before me, I find 

 that these differences 

 are not constant, but 

 vary individually. Even 

 what is apparently 

 the most important of 

 these, the possession by 

 bacchus of a backward- 

 ly-directed, conical tooth 

 on each side of the occi- 

 put of the female, is of 

 this varying nature. Of 

 the three females here 

 quoted, one has these 



teeth less developed than in a female of parthenope from France, as 

 figs. 3 B and C show. 



The close relationship existing between the Odonate fauna of 

 Kashmir and that of Europe, referred to in the introduction of this 

 paper, is clearly seen from the results of a comparison of individuals 

 of this species from France, Kashmir and Japan, as follows : 



Humeral and 

 second lateral 

 thoracic sutures 



Sides of the first 

 abdominal seg- 

 ment inferiorly 



2^39 Kashmir 

 1 £ 2 9 France 



with a narrow black 

 line for their entire 

 length. 



32 $ 4 9 Yokohoma 



with some discontinuous 

 black marks. 



with a quadrate with a small round, 

 dark brown spot blackish dot near the 

 reaching from the middle of the segment, 

 base to the middle 

 of the segment. 




150 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Merabranule on 

 all four wings 



Hind margin of 

 the occiput of 

 the female 



[1898. 



uniformly pale white at base, cinereous 

 gray. in apical half (front 



wings) or three-fourths 

 (hind wings.) 

 with two acute, or with two blunt, rounded 

 moderately acute, tubercles (figs. 3 d, e.) 

 processes (figs. 3a-c.) 

 That is, in the only constant characters which I could find distin- 

 guishing the Kashmir from Japanese individuals, the former agreed 

 in all cases with French examples. I have not been able to find 

 any constant characters to separate the French from the Kashmir 

 examples. 



Mr. McLachlan (1878) has recorded this species from Srinagar. 



Subfamily GOMPHINiE. 



4. Ophiogomphus reductus n. sp. Figs. 4, 5, 6 7. 

 Two males, three females, " 5—10,000 f." 

 Differs from O. serpentinus Charp. as follows : 



$ 9 . No black mark or line on the suture between frons 



and nasus, or on the nasus ; prothorax yellowish green, a transverse 



band between anterior and middle lobes 

 and either side of the posterior lobe 

 blackish ; the two median black bands 

 on the thoracic dorsum wanting ; the 

 narrow antehumeral black stripe iso- 

 lated, touching neither the anterior 

 mesothoracic border below nor the ante- 

 alar sinus above, or almost entirely 

 wanting in one female; no dark spot 

 behind the posterior legs ; the dorsal 

 yellow spot on 3-7 rounded, not pointed, 

 at its hind end, on 8-9 occupying almost 

 the entire length of the segment. 



$ . — Superior appendages (2.5 mm.) 

 longer than the 9th (2 mm.); and con- 

 sequently still longer than the 10th 

 (1.75 mm.) abdominal segment, diverg- 

 Fig. 4. i n g from each other in their basal half, 



Dorsal view of the tenth convere i no - in their apical half in a 



abdominal segment and the , j i j a 



terminal appendages of Opkio- regular curve, curved also downward 



gomphus reductus n. sp d '. x 15. i n the apical half. Inferior appendage 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



about one-third shorter ; viewed in profile it is directed somewhat 

 upward and the superior margin is biemarginated in two places, 

 viz. immediately behind 

 the base and immedi- 

 ately in front of the 

 apex ; both emargina- 

 tions have curved out- 

 lines and the ante- 

 apical is the smaller of 

 the two ; the tip of the 

 appendage is slender 

 and curved upward. 

 The genitalia of the 



second segment are . *«g. 5. 



. ., , n Profile view, left side of the terminal abdominal 



very similar to those ot appendages of Ophiogomphus reductus n. ep.cf 



serpejitinus, especially x 15. 



as regards the penis, as figured in Monog. Gomph., pi. 5, f. 2. 

 Anal triangle of the hind wings 4-celIed. 



9 . The two " horns " of the occiput are much shorter, in one 



female the right horn is absent and the left 

 is represented merely by two black denticles. 

 Second and third tarsal joints superiorly 

 (externally) more or less yellowish. These 

 females consequently, as far as the colora- 

 tion of the abdomen and of the tarsi is con- 

 cerned, resemble the female from southern 

 Russia described on p. 81, Monog. Gomph. 

 Dimensions. — Abdomen $ 37.5 mm., 9 37- 

 39. Hind wing ^33-34, 9 35-37. 



From spinicomis Selys (Bull. Acad. Roy. 

 Belg.-2-xlvi, p. 437, 1878) described from 

 a single female, from the mountains north 

 of Pekin, these females differ by the absence 

 of a black line on the fronto-nasal suture, the 

 predominant color of the vertex blackish, the " horns " of the occi- 

 put bearing denticles as in serpentinus, not a single short spine, the 

 absence of the black median dorsal thoracic stripes, the isolated 

 position of the black antehumeral stripe. 



From 0. assimilis Schneider (Selys in Monogr. Gomph., p. 81, 

 1857), from Asia Minor, known from two males, these males differ 



Fig. 6. 

 Ventral view of the 

 inferior abdominal ap- 

 pendage of Ophiogom- 

 phus reductus n. sp. tf 

 xl5. 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



by the entirely yellow lips and nasus, the rear of the head mostly 



yellow as in serpen- 

 tinus, the absence of 

 the median and the 

 isolated position of 

 the antehumeral 

 stripes on the thoracic 

 dorsum; a mere black 

 line only, no band, 

 on the second lateral 

 thoracic suture, no 

 6 



Fig. 7. 

 Occiput of Ophiogomphns reductus n. sp. 9 to show 

 its two processes ("horns"). ME margins of the 

 eyes, x 25. 



intermediate band ; the dorsal yellow spots on 3 



rounded at their hind ends. 



longer and 



Subfamily CORDULEGASTERIN^J. 



5. Cordulegaster bidentatus Selys. 



Selys, Ann. Soc. Ent. France (2) i, p. 109, 1843. Ann. Soc. Ent. Belg., 

 xxxi, p. 34, 1887. 



One male, " below 5,000 f", agrees with bidentatus in its append- 

 ages (very nearly), in the number of cells (three) in the anal tri- 

 angle, and in those color differences which distinguish bidentatus 

 from insignia. It differs from bidentatus in having an apical infe- 

 rior yellow spot on abdominal segment 1, and a twin apical yellow 

 spot on the dorsum of 4-6, a yellow spot on each side of the apex of 

 7-9, and a basal yellow spot on each side of 10 ; all the yellow spots 

 on the abdomen are larger than in bidentatus. Abdomen 55 mm., 

 hind wing 46. The most eastern record for bidentatus hitherto ap- 

 pears to be Asia Minor. 



Subfamily LIBELLULIN^E. 



6. Pantala flavescens Fabricius. 

 Two females, " below 5,000 f." 



7. Libellula quadrimaoulata L. 



Four males, four females " below 5,000 f." 



Only in three of these, all females, does the black basal spot of 

 the hind wings extend into the triangle, and even in these three it 

 does not completely fill the triangle. These females and one male 

 may be referred to the variety prenu b ila, although the brown cloud 

 below the pterostigma is in no case intense. One of these females is 

 also interesting in that it approaches basilinea McLach. (Ann. Mag. 




•> 



1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



Nat. Hist. [6] xiii, p. 430, 1894), as on the front wings a dark-brown 

 streak occurs in the subraedian space from the cross-vein almost to 

 the distal end, and there is a small, separate brown spot in the same 

 space on the basal side of the same cross-vein ; in the subcostal space 

 of the same wings there are, between some of the antecubitals, small 

 pale brown spots in the midst of the yellow of the anterior margin. 

 This yellow extends to the pterostigma in all but two males. The 

 ventral abdominal spots of basilinea are not present. 



Recorded from Turkestan (Brauer), Persia and Yarkand (Selys). 



8. Orthetrum cancellation L. 



Five males, nine females, " below 5,000 f." 



Recorded from the eastern side of the Caspian and from Persia 

 (Selys). 



9. Orthetrum brunneum Fonsc. 



Five males, three females, " below 5000 f" ; two females " 5- 

 10,000 f." Not distinguishable from European specimens, with which 

 I have carefully compared them, and certainly different from gracile 

 (Albania) Selys and Ramburii Selys. One female has the discoidal 

 triangle of both hind wings crossed by one vein, but I can find noth- 

 ing to indicate that it is of a different species. 



Abdomen £27-28, 9 27-28. Hind wing £34-35, 9 34-35. 



Recorded from Turkestan (Brauer) and Persia (Selys). 



10. Orthetrum hyalinum Kirby (?) 



O. h. Kirby, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1886, p. 326, pi. xxxiii, figs. 5, 6. 



One female, " below 5,000 f," is probably this species, although it 

 is larger (total length 38 mm., abdomen 25, hind wing 29, alar 

 expanse 62), and the thorax is pale olive instead of reddish-brown, 

 which may not, however, indicate more than that this individual is 

 more immature. 



11. Orthetrum triangulare Selys. 



Libella t. Selys, Mittheil. zool. Mus. Dresden, iii, p. 314, 1878. 



Two males, " below 5,000 f." agree with the very brief diagnosis. 

 Their size is rather large; abdomen 31.5, hind wing 38 mm. 



12. Crocothemis erythrsea Brulle. 



Six males, five females "5-10,000 f." ; six males, five females 

 " below 5,000 f." Abdomen $ 21-23.5, 9 21-22 mm., hind wing $ 

 25-27.5, 9 25-29. In seven males and eight females, and on one side 



11 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



only of one male and one female, the sectors of the triangle are a 

 little separated at their origin. 



Previously known from Turkestan (Selys). 



13. Sympetrum (or Diplax) vulgatum L. 



One male, " 5-10,000 f.", has the black longitudinal line on each 

 side of the third abdominal segment, the basal line of the frons pro- 

 longed iuferiorly in front of the eyes,hamules as described by Baron 

 de Selys (Ann. Soc. Ent. Belg., xxxi, p. 10). It is of the typical 

 form of vulgatum and not of the race decolorata Selys. 



14. Sympetrum (Diplax) Fonscolombii Selys. 



One male, two females " 5-10,000 f." ; one female " below 5,000 

 f." In the male, which is semi-adult, the yellow on the base of the 

 hind wings reaches out in the submedian space almost to the tri- 

 angle and more than half way back toward the hind margin. In 

 the females the extent of this yellow is smaller and like that of 

 European examples. 



Previously known from Turkestan, and Murree in N. W. India. 

 Mr. C. C. Adams and Prof. M. J. Elrod have sent me both sexes 

 from the plateau of the Nilgiris, 7,500 ft., taken in August and 

 September, 1896. 



15. Sympetrum (Diplax) meridionale Selys. 



One female, " below 5,000 f." There is a greater extension of 

 yellowish coloring over the bases of the wings than is usual in Euro- 

 pean individuals of this species, but the other characters agree. 

 Baron de Selys refers to this species a female from " les montagnes 

 de lTnde." (Ann. Soc. Ent. Belg., xxviii, p. 36, 1884). 




1898.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 155 



March 1. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Twenty-eight persons present. 



A paper entitled " The Muscidae collected by Dr. Donaldson 

 Smith in Somali Land," by Garry de N. Hough, M. D., was pre- 

 sented for publication. 



March 8. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Twenty-one persons present. 



A paper entitled " A new Grasshopper Mouse from New Mexico," 

 by Samuel N. Rhoads, was presented for publication. 



March 15. 



Mr. Charles Morris, in the Chair. 



Twenty-seven persons present. 



A paper entitled, " Notes on the Fossil Walrus of Eastern North 

 America," by Samuel N. Rhoads, was presented for publication. 



The death of William M. Singerly, a member, was announced. 



March 22. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Eighty persons present. 



The death of Thomas McKean, a member, was announced. 



Mr. Witmer Stone made a communication on the breeding- 

 habits of some birds of Eastern Pennsylvania, illustrated by beauti- 

 ful lantern views taken by Messrs William L. Whitaker and 

 William L. Baily. (No abstract). 



March 29. 

 Mr. Charles Morris, in the Chair. 

 Twelve persons present. 

 Papers under the following titles were presented for publication :- 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



"Birds observed in Central California in the summer of 1893," 

 by John Van Denburgh. 



"Revision of the North American Slugs: Binneya, Hemphillia, 

 Hesperarion, Prophysaon and Auadenulus," by Henry A. Pilsbry 

 and E. G. Vanatta. 



Mr. Carroll Smyth was elected a member. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



DIPTERA COLLECTED BY DR. A. DONALDSON SMITH IN SOMALILAND, 



EASTERN AFRICA. 



BY CHAS. W. JOHNSON. 



The Diptera described and listed in this and the following paper 

 by Dr. Garry de N. Hough, were collected by Dr. Smith on his ex- 

 pedition through Somaliland from Berbera to Lake Rudolf, thence 

 southeast to the coast. 1 All of the specimens have been presented 

 to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia by Dr. Smith. 



In studying this material I have had to depend entirely on de- 

 scriptions, and one important paper I have been unable to consult, 

 so that a few species have had to be set aside for the present. For 

 any error, therefore, that may occur in their identification, I wish to 

 beg kind indulgence. I also wish to express my sincere thanks to 

 Dr. Hough for his kindness in working up the Muscidse. 



CTJLICIDiE. 



Culex sp. 



Two specimens, Sheikh Husein. Oct. 7th. Too imperfect for deter- 

 mination. 



STRATIOMYID^. 

 Sternobrithes tumidus Loew. 



Sternobrithes tumidus Loew, Oefers. Kongl. Akad. Forhand., 264, 1856. 



One specimen, Sheikh Husein, October 3, 1894. 



TABANIDJE. 



Pangonia obesa Walker. 



Pangonia obesa Walker. Insecta Saund. I, 14. 



Five specimens 9 collected at Sheikh Husein, Sept. 20, 1894, 

 agree with Walker's description. 



Pangonia appendiculata Macquart. 



Pangonia appendiculata Macq. Dipt. Exot. I, 97, PI. 13, fig. 2. 

 ? Pangonia varicolor Wied. Auss. Zweifl., I, 100. 



One specimen ( <? ), Abula, November 25, 1884. 



Ckrysops stigmaticalis Loew. 



Chrysops stigmaticalis Loew. Dipt. -Faun. Ind-Afri. (101), 29, I860; 

 Oefers. Kongl. Akad. Forhand., 338, 1857. 



One specimen ( 9 ), Sheik Mahomet. November 9, 1894. 



1 See Dr. Smith's article and maps, in The Geographical Journal for August 

 and September, 1896. 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Tabanus biguttatus Wiedemann. 



Tabanits biguttatus Wied. Auss. Zweifl., II, 623, 20. 



Tabanus tripunctifera Walk. Zool., VIII, Append. XCV ; List, etc.pt. V, 

 227. 



Tabanus cerebes Walk. List, etc , pt. I, 149. 



Tabanus noctis Walk. Insecta Saund. I, 42. 



Tabanus cilipes Macq. Dipt. Exot., I, 1, 120. 



One specimen ( $ ), Mt. Kulol, August 27, 1895. This seems to 

 be a widely distributed and variable species. The male has two 

 white spots on the third and fourth segments of the abdomen. I am 

 indebted in part to Mr. E. E. Austen of the British Museum for the 

 above synonymy. 



Tabanus maculatissimus Macquart. 



Tabanus maculatissimus Macq. Dipt. Exot, 1, 1, 121, Tab. 17, f. 2; Walker 

 List, etc., V, 227. 



One specimen, Sheikh Husein, October 15, 1894. 



Hsematopota albihirta Karsb. 



Hcematopota albihirta Karsh, Berl. Ent. Zeit., 1887, 371, Taf. IV, fig. 4. 



One specimen, December 12, 1894. 



Hsematopota maculiplena Karsb. 



HcEmatopota maculiplena Karsh, Berl. Ent. Zeit., 1887, 371, Tab. IV, 

 fig. 5. 



Two specimens, El Dere, March 22, 1895. The specimens are 



badly broken, but agree well with the description of this species. 



ASLLID^. 



Hoplistomera serripes Fabr. 



Laphria 'serripes Fabr . Syst. Antl., 159, 16. 



Laphria maculipennis Macq. Hist. Nat. Dipt., I, 285,22. 



Hoplistomera serripes Macq. Dipt. Exot, I, 2, 60. 



One specimen, near Lake Stefanie, June 5, 1895. 



Laxenecera zonata Loew. 



Laphria zonata Lcew. Bericlit des Konigl. Preuss. Akad. d. Wissensch. zu 

 Berl. 1852, 659. 



Laxenecera zonata Loew. Karsch, Berl. Ent. Zeit., XXXI, 374, 1887. 



Four specimens, Sheikh Husein, September 29-30, 1894. 



Laxenecera sp. 



One specimen, Sheikh Mahomed, November 6, 1894. 



BOMBYCIDJE. 



Exoprosopa suffusa Klug. 



Anthrax suffusa Klug. Ehrenberg, Sym. Phys. (Ins. Afr. Boreal, et Asia 

 Occident.). 12, Tab. XXX, fig. 2, 1832. 



Two specimens, Sheikh Hausin, September 23-28, 1894. This 

 species is beautifully figured in the work referred to. It is not the 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



Anthrax sufficsa Walker, (List, etc., pt. II, 251), described without 

 habitat. As it is undoubtedly an Exoprosopa, the two names can 

 remain. It is allied to Anthrax vespertilioni Meig. 



Eurycarenus laticeps Loew. 



Bombylius laticeps Loew, Bericbt. der Konigl. Preuss. Akad. d. Wissensch. 

 Berl., 659, 1852; Peters, Natur. Reise nach Mossambique, Insect., 14, 1862. 

 Eurycarenus laticeps Loew. 



One specimen, Shiekh Husein, September 26, 1894. The vena- 

 tion is exactly like that figured by Loew, but the pile is more or less 

 rubbed from the abdomen. 



Bombylius sp. 



One specimen, December 3, 1894. Too much injured to determine. 



SYRPHID^l. 



Melanostoma annulipes Macquart. 



Syrphus a?inulipes Macq. Dipt. Exot, II, pt. 2, 102, pi. 17, fig. 4,1842; 

 Bigot, Ann. Soc. Ent. Fr., VII, 3 ser. 436, pi. 12, fig. 5, 1859. 



Eleven specimens, Sheikh Husein, Sept. 29th, Oct. 7th, and Gin- 



neer Nov. 14th. 



Syrpbus sp. 



Two specimens, Sheikh Husein, September 29th, and October 8, 

 1894. 



Asarkina sp. 



One specimen, Sheikh Husein, September 20, 1894. 



Khingia caerulescens Loew. 



Rhingia ctcrulescens Loew. Dipt. Fauna Sud-Afri. (101) 29, 1860 ; Oefers. 

 Kongl. Akad. Forhand., 377, 14, 1857. 



Three specimens, Sheikh Husein, September 29th, and October 1, 

 1894. 



MEGATRIGON n. gen. 



Head hemispherical, slightly wider than the thorax, front and 

 vertex of nearly uniform width, the three ocelli widely separated, the 

 two upper ones being situated on the vertical orbits near the angles of 

 the eyes, the three being widely equidistant, eyes hairy, occiput prom- 

 inent, third joint of the antennae ovate as long as the first and second 

 taken together, arista inserted near the base and slightly longer 

 than the third joint. Thorax as wide as long, anterior margin 

 straight, posterior portion rounded. Scutellum but slightly arched 

 and of a nearly equal width. Abdomen convex, oblong, slightly 

 tapering, about twice the length of the thorax. 




160 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



Posterior femora greatly thickened, outer portion on the under 

 side, armed with two ridges having teeth-like projections (Fig. 1) in 

 the groove between these ridges, the tibia lies when the fly is at rest, 

 posterior tibiae arcuated and the outer half thickened, first joint of 

 the posterior tarsi dilated and as long as all the other joints. Wings 

 as shown in Fig. 2. Type M. sexfasciatus. 



Megatrigon sexfasciatus n. sp. 



9 . — Length 9 mm. Face, front and vertex granulose, (except a 

 narrow longitudinal space on the front,) black, shining, with long 

 whitish pile on the face and front yellowish on the vertex, mouth 

 parts reddish, the two upper ocelli showing a red metallic lustre 

 in certain light; posterior and inferior orbits with a dense yellow 

 pubescence, eyes sparsely covered with white hairs. Antennae 

 and arista? black, base of the aristae and second joint of the antennae 

 reddish. Thorax black, shining, granulose, with 

 yellowish-white pile, humeri reddish, a dense yellow 

 pubescence forms three dorsal stripes, and a continuous 

 margin extending from the anterior end of the outer 

 dorsal stripes, the latter only reach the suture, while 

 the middle stripe almost reaches the posterior margin, 

 pleurae with a dense yellowish pubescence and long 

 whitish pile, posterior angle reddish with bright 

 1- yellow pile, scutellum black with a yellow posterior 

 margin and long yellowish-white pile. Abdomen convex, black, 

 granulose, with sparse yellowish-white pile and six transverse bands 

 of dense yellowish pubescence arranged as follows: An arcuate 

 band on the second segment extends from the posterior angles to 

 the middle where it is very narrowly interrupted ; third, with a basal 

 and a slightly arcuated middle band; fourth 

 with a basal, middle, and posterior band, the 

 middle one slightly curved, lateral margins 

 of the third and fourth segments yellow, pos- 

 terior part of the first segments shining and 

 the posterior margin of the fifth yellow. 

 Venter concave, brown with dense grayish pubescence and sparse 

 white pile, lateral margins blackish. Femora black, with long whit- 

 ish hairs, coxae brown, anterior and middle tibiae and tarsi red 

 covered with yellowish hairs, under side of the tibiae near the outer 

 end with a brownish band. Groove on the under side of the outer 

 portion of the posterior femur into which the basal half of the tibia 




189S.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



lies when at rest, shining, ridges with five teeth-like projections, 

 posterior tibiae black, pile yellowish, base of the tibia? and tarsi red. 

 Wing hyaline, with a slight tinge of brown, veins dark brown. 

 Alula? and halteres bright yellow. 



One specimen, Sheikh Husein, October 10, 1894. 



ACROCERIDjE. 



Pterodontia Smithi n. sp. 



Length 10 mm. Head black, with yellow and brownish pile. 

 Antennse yellow. Thorax yellow thickly cover with long yellowish 

 pile, a dorsal stripe about the width of the head extends to nearly 

 opposite the base of the wings where it expands into a large dis- 

 coidal spot occupying the entire dorsal portion, a spot on the ante- 

 alar protuberance, lower portion of the pleurae and the sternum, black. 

 Scutellum yellow with brown and yellowish pile and a round central 

 black spot. Abdomen tricolor, with brown and yellowish pile ; the 

 irregular black dorsal stripe and the dark and light yellow trans- 

 verse bands that extend on either side and divide the segments into 

 two equal parts may be described as follows : The first segment is 

 covered by the scutellum and visible only on the side, is black with 

 a lateral and posterior margin of light yellow ; second, the black of 

 the dorsal stripe occupies fully one-half of the anterior and nearly 

 one-third of the posterior half of the segment, between the anterior 

 portion of the central stripes and the subtriangular black markings 

 at the anterior angles, is a small dark yellow spot representing the 

 first, dark yellow band, the light yellow posterior band extending on 

 each side of the central marking is narrowly contracted at the lateral 

 margin ; third, anterior half of the central stripe the same width as 

 the posterior half of that on the preceding segment, posterior half 

 contracted to about one-third that of the anterior portion, the black 

 lateral markings at the anterior angles quadrate, the lateral portions 

 of the light yellow band but slightly contracted ; fourth, the anterior 

 portion of the central stripe somewhat narrower at the anterior mar- 

 gin than at the middle or anterior margin of the light yellow band, 

 posterior half one-third the width of the anterior portion and not 

 quite or very narrowly touching the posterior edge of the segment, 

 lateral markings quadrate, light yellow band less contracted than on 

 the third segment; fifth segment similar to the fourth, except that 

 the central stripe does not reach the posterior margin, in one spec- 

 imen the central and lateral markings are narrowly connected, thus 

 dividing the dark and light yellow bands ; sixth segment black with 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



a yellow spot at the posterior angles, in one specimen the latter char- 

 acter is wanting. Venter yellowish, first and sixth segments brown- 

 ish, in one specimen the base of all the other segments is slightly 

 tinged with brown. Legs yellow with yellow pile, coxre and the 

 under side of the femora more or less tinged with brown, tips of the 

 claws black. Wings hyaline, veins yellow. 



Two specimens, Crorgora, September 13, 1894. This species is 

 readily distinguished from those already described by its lateral 

 quadrate abdominal markings. 



ANTHOMYID-S3. 



Phorbia fusiceps Zett. 



One specimen, Sheikh Mahomed, November 11, 1894. 



Anthomyia abyssinica Jnennick. 



Anlhomyia abyssinica Ja?nnick. Neues Exot. Dipt., Abhandl. d. Senckenb. 

 Ges., VI, 372. 



Two specimens, Sheikh Husein, October 3rd ; Sheikh Mahomed, 



November 10, 1894. 



Authomyiasp. 



Three specimens, Sheikh Husein, October 3, 1894. 



Anthomyia pp. 



One specimen, Sheikh Husein, October 3, 1894. 



Caricea marginipennis n. sp. 



Length 3 mm. Front, vertex and occiput bluish-gray, face and a 

 ridge surrounding the base of the antennae yellow, two slightly arc- 

 uate black lines extend from the vertical angles near the eyes, to the 

 yellow ridge above the antennas, space between the two lines less 

 bluish, on each of the vertical and frontal orbits are three minute 

 black points; antenna? yellow. Thorax bluish-gray with two rows 

 of four minute black points from each of which rises a small bristle, 

 there are also numerous smaller ones on the side of the dorsum and 

 on the pleurse, scutellum bluish-gray with two black bristles. Abdo- 

 men of the same color with two small black dots on the third, fourth 

 and fifth segments. Legs yellow. Wings with a brownish tinge, 

 and a wide whitish-hyaline posterior margin commencing near the 

 second longitudinal vein. 



Two specimens, Sheikh Mahomed, October 11, and Ginea, Nov- 

 ember 14,1894. 

 Anaphalantus politus n. sp. 



Length 3£ mm. Front and vertex black, with whitish bloom, 

 frontal orbits with silvery pubescence each with three shining black 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



spots, the upper one at the junction of the front and vertex ; face 

 light yellow, palpi yellow, proboscis black, occiput black, shining ; 

 antenna?, first and second joint and arista yellow, third joint black- 

 ish, and longer than the first and second taken together. Thorax 

 black with a hoary bloom which is more dense on the pleura? and also 

 forms a wide dorsal stripe, dorsum with numerous black bristles, 

 humeri shining, scutellum black with two lateral and two very long 

 apical bristles. Abdomen black, disc and a narrow dorsal line on 

 the last segment hoary, the lateral portion of the segments shining 

 black, venter hoary. Legs yellow with black hairs, outer half of 

 the anterior tibia? and the first joint of the tarsi black, with long 

 dense black hairs, tips of the posterior femora brownish. Wings 

 hyaline, iridescent in certain lights, veins yellow. 



One specimen, Sheikh Husein, October 3, 1894. 



This species may be distinguished from Anaphalantus pennatus 

 Loew, by the third joint of the antenna? being black, and the outer 

 half of the tibia? only, being black. 



TRYPETIDJE. 



Trypeta angusta Loew. 



Trypeta angusta Loew, Berl. Entom. Zeit., 1861,271, Taf. II, fig. 9. 

 One specimen, Sheikh Husein, October 11, 1894. 



SEPSIDJE. 



Sepsis costalis n. sp. 



Length 5 mm. Face and cheeks brown ; front, vertex and occi- 

 put black. Antenna? reddish-brown, proboscis black. Thorax and 

 abdomen black, opaque. Legs entirely black. Wings hyaline, 

 except the costal cell which is entirely black. 



Two specimens, Sheikh Husein, October 3, 1894. 



Sepsis sp. 



Two specimens, Sheikh Husein, October 3rd ; Ginea, November 



14, 1894. 



DIOPSID^E. 



Diopsis somaliensis n. sp. 



Length 7 mm. Head red, shining, with very sparse white hairs, 

 mouth parts and lateral prolongations that form the eye-stalks, 



brownish, the enlarged portion that forms 

 the base of the eye, dark brown, antenna? 

 reddish, arista? brown. 



Thorax black with a very short white 

 pubescence, scutellum black, spines yellow- 

 Fig. 3. ish, tips of the spines brown, halters light 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



yellow. Abdomen black, shining, hypopygium reddish, venter 

 brownish, legs dark yellow, anterior tibiae and all except the basal 

 joint of the anterior tarsi brownish. Wings hyaline slightly tinged 

 with brown, veins black, a black ocel late spot above and a > shaped 

 marking below, near the tip of the third longitudinal vein as shown 

 in Fig. '■'>. 



Two specimens, near Lake Abaya, May 9, 1895. 



OSCINIDJE. 



Elachiptera femorata n. sp. 



Length 8 mm. Head brownish, lower portion of the face and 

 front more or less yellowish, orbits in certain lights are silvery, the 

 ocellar triangle shining, the lower portion greatly attenuate and 

 almost reaching the base of the antenna?, under side of the antennae 

 red, upper side and setae dark brown. Thorax brown, with three 

 black stripes and covered with a grayish pubescence, which also 

 forms a short prominent line in the center of the anterior portion 

 of the black dorsal stripe, pleurae brownish, scutellum blackish. 

 Abdomen black, with a narrow yellowish-white posterior margin to 

 all the segments, venter brownish. Femora and tibiae reddish, tarsi 

 yellow, posterior femora somewhat thickened. Wings hyaline, veins 

 dark-brown. 



Three specimens, Ginea, November 14th, and Sheikh Mahomed, 

 October 11, 1894. 



Chlorops sp. 



One specimen, Sheikh Husein, October 3, 1894. 



HIPPOBOSCLDJE. 



Hippobosca camelina (Savg.) Leach. 



Hipposca camelina Savigny mss. Leach, Eprob. Ins., Wern. Mem., II, 556. 

 Tab. XXVII, figs. 11-14, JS17; Kondani, Ann. Mus. Civ. Storia Nat. Gen- 

 ova, XII, 165, 1878. 



One specimen, Berbera, July 5, 1894. 



Ornithomyia nigricans Leach. 



Ornitliomyia nigricans Leach. Eprob. Ins. Wern. Mem., II, 10. Tab. 

 XXVII, figs._7-10, 1817; Wied. Auss. Zvv., 11, 609, 3 ; v. d. Wulp, Dipt. 

 Sum. Exp. 57, 1 ; v Roder, Entom. Xachr., XIX, 236, 29. 



Two specimens, Dada, November 21, 1894. These specimens 

 agree with the description. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



THE MUSCIDiE COLLECTED BY DR. A. DONALDSON SMITH IN SOMALI 



LAND. 



BY GARRY DE N. HOUGH, M. D. 



One cannot offer for publication a paper on Muscidse in which 

 species are described as new without a certain amount of misgiving. 

 So many descriptions of Muscidse have been published that I fear I 

 may have overlooked some, and that I may have added to the 

 already too long list of synonyms. I can only say that I have con- 

 scientiously tried to avoid this. My descriptions are long, but the 

 resemblances between the Muscidse are so close, that it is essential 

 to describe new species at length if they are ever to be recognized 

 by subsequent students. If any of the species described as new are 

 already known, I shall be very glad to be informed of it and to 

 publish the synonymy. 



Considerable space has been given to the bristles of the head, 

 and, as I have felt obliged to introduce some new names, my de- 

 scriptions must be prefaced by a few remarks on these bristles. 



Bristles of the Head. — The central feature of the muscid face is 

 the frontal suture, which, taken as a whole, has the shape of an in- 

 verted U, the arms making with one another more or less of an 

 angle. 



If we draw a line across the face tangent to the convexity of this 

 suture, then the part of the face dorsad of this line and between the 

 eyes is the front. The fraut is distinctly divided into three parts, 

 a median (the frontal vitta), and two lateral (the geno vertical 

 plates). The boundary lines between the vitta and the geno-verti- 

 cal plates are marked by rows of bristles (usually one row on each 

 side of the vitta), which are inserted in a dorso-ventral line from a 

 point on a level with the anterior ocellus to the ventral border of 

 the front. These are the frontal bristles. They are in two groups 

 which I call the ascending frontal and the trans-frontal. The 

 ascending frontal, from one to four in number, are the most dorsad 

 of the frontal bristles. If more than one is present, the most dor- 

 sad is the largest, and each succeeding one is smaller (usually much 

 smaller) than its dorsal neighbor. They are curved dorsad, caudad 

 and more or less laterad, and are parallel to one another. 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



The trans-frontal vary in Dumber in different species, in the two 

 sexes of the same species and even in different individuals of the 

 same sex. In the female they are directed mesad and cephalad 

 across the frontal vitta and more or less of them may decussate with 

 their fellows of the opposite side. In the male they are generally 

 more numerous than in the corresponding female, and they are 

 directed cephalad with (usually) a curve dorsad or ventrad. As 

 in the female they may decussate, but as a rule they do not. 



Each geno-vertical plate is continued over the vertex to the occi- 

 pital surface in the form of a little ridge. This ridge is bounded 

 laterad by a suture which begins at the dorso-mesal angle of the eye, 

 runs to the vertex, over the vertex to the occipital surface of the 

 head, and then in a ventro-mesal direction as far as the great cen- 

 tral foramen. About half way between the vertex and the great 

 foramen the little ridge bifurcates. The lateral branch continues 

 in about the same direction as the main ridge, while the mesal branch 

 runs more or less directly mesad and joins its fellow of the opposite 

 side ; thus by these two little ridges and their mesal branches a tri- 

 angular area is marked out at the dorso-central part of the occiput. 

 At the very beginning of each of these little ridges just mentioned, 

 right on the vertex, stands a bristle which is called the inner verti- 

 cal, and down a little way on each ridge just before it bifurcates 

 stands another which I propose to call the oceipito-central. Both 

 of these bristles are present in every species that I have so far had 

 the opportunity of examining. They vary in size in different spe- 

 cies and in the two sexes of the same species. The inner vertical 

 project dorsad with more or less of a curve caudad and mesad, so 

 that they sometimes decussate a little and are almost always con- 

 vergent. The amount of convergence varies even in individuals of 

 the same species and sex. The oceipito-central project dorsad and 

 mesad sometimes with a curve, sometimes without a curve, some- 

 times decussating a little with one another, sometimes apparently 

 decussating with a bristle called the post-vertical, which will be de- 

 scribed later. 



On the vertex, just laterad the beginning of the little ridge and 

 the inner vertical bristle, stands a bristle which is called the outer 

 vertical. This bristle varies much in size in different species and in 

 the two sexes of the same species. It is larger in the female than in 

 the male, and is absent in the males of some species although pres- 

 ent in their females. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



A little caudad, ventrad and laterad of the outer vertical, on the 

 occipital surface of the head, there is sometimes a small bristle 

 which curves dorsad, mesad and a trifle cephalad, apparently decus- 

 sating with the outer vertical. I call this the occipito- lateral. 



Parallel to and at a variable distance caudad from the occipital 

 margin of the eye, is a row of bristles called the cilia of the posterior 

 orbit. They begin dorsad very near the outer vertical bristle but 

 distinctly caudad of it and also very near but cephalad of the occi- 

 pito-lateral. The members of the dorsal part of this row are com- 

 monly larger and more perfectly aligned than the members of the 

 members of the ventral portion, and there is much difference in their 

 size and correctness of alignment in different species as well as in 

 the distance to which they can be traced ventrad as a distinct row. 

 Frequently there are one or more rows of exceedingly small bristles 

 intercalated between the cilia of the posterior orbit and the occi- 

 pital margin of the eye. The posterior orbit is the space between 

 the cilia of the posterior orbit and the occipital margin of the eye ; 

 it is usually narrower in the male than in the female, and may be 

 absent. 



I spoke above of a triangular area marked out at the dorso-cen- 

 tral part of the occipital surface of the head by the two little ridges 

 and their mesal branches. This triangle and the more or less dis- 

 tinct eminence on which the ocelli are situated, are continuous with 

 one another over the vertex and form a differentiated portion which 

 is occupied by a group of bristles which may be called the ocellar 

 group. Among them we must distinguish the greater ocellar (ocel- 

 lar pair of Baron Osten-Sacken), and the lesser ocellar. 



The greater ocellar is a pair of bristles usually easily distinguish- 

 able by their larger size, which are inserted between the anterior 

 ■and posterior ocelli. They vary in size, direction and curvature in 

 different species and in the two sexes of the same species, and in 

 different individuals (especially males) of the same species. They 

 are generally parallel to the lesser ocellar bristles and sometimes 

 differ from the latter in size by a very small amount. 



The lesser ocellar are more numerous, from three to twelve pairs, 

 and are usually inserted in two parallel lines (sometimes in four) 

 which begin very close to the insertion of the greater ocellar and 

 extend caudad a variable distance, sometimes about half way to an 

 imaginary line joining the insertions of the inner vertical bristles, 

 sometimes beyond this line to the occipital surface of the head. 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Usually the most caudal pair of lesser ocellar is somewhat larger 

 than the rest, sometimes much larger, and it has received the spe- 

 cial name post-vertical pair. When it is much larger and at the 

 same time is separated by quite a space from the next pair (as in 

 the females of Myospila, Muscina and Graphomyia) the post-verti- 

 cal really seem to be an independent pair of bristles, but when (as 

 in Musca and Morellid) they are hardly distinguishable in size, are 

 as near the next pair as that pair is to the next in the series, and 

 still more when we find similar bristles even caudad of the post- 

 verticals themselves it is clear that they belong to the lesser ocellar 

 series. 



In some species we can see, in the middle of the frontal vitta, a 

 more or less distinctly differentiated dorso-ventral stripe. The ven- 

 tral end of this stripe is not much above the ventral end of the 

 frontal vitta itself. Dorsad it broadens out and then divides into 

 two branches, one of which passes on each side of the ocellar emi- 

 nence to the vertex. Inserted on the vitta some little distance 

 below the anterior ocellus and close to this stripe (over which they 

 decussate) we find in some species a pair of rather small bristles 

 which I call the preocellar. 



Bristles which are inserted on the geno-vertical plate are called 

 orbital. 



On each side of the face at the ventral end of the arm of the 

 frontal suture, begins what is called the transverse impression of the 

 face. This is at first a rather broad shallow depression. It passes 

 almost horizontally laterad (becoming narrower as it proceeds) ven- 

 trad of the eye, and can be readily traced as far as the ventro-cau- 

 dal angle of the eye where it usually seems to end. Sometimes, 

 however, it can be seen to be continuous with a suture of the occi- 

 put which runs from the latero-ventral angle of the great foramen 

 toward and sometimes to the ventro-caudal angle of the eye. 



That part of the side of the face which is dorsad the transverse 

 impression, laterad of the arm of the frontal suture and mesad 

 of the eye is called by the German authors the wange. For this, I 

 suggest the word gena, for reasons which will appear later. The 

 gena is continuous dorsad with the geno-vertical plate. 



Ventrad of the transverse impression and ventrad of the eye, ex- 

 tending ventrad to the edge of the mouth opening, cephalad to the 

 vibrissal ridge, and continuing caudad on the occiput to the great 

 foramen, is the part which the German authors call the Backe. 

 For this I suggest the word bucca. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



In English we have but one word " cheek " for the two German 

 words Wange aud Backe. The Wange is dorsad of the Backe, In 

 Latin the word " gena " refers rather to the upper part of the cheek, 

 the word " bucca " to the lower part. For these reasons and be- 

 cause the words bucca and Backe are so nearly alike, it has seemed 

 to me wise to translate Wange by gena and Backe by bucca. The 

 bucca is sometimes clearly defined, cephalad, from the vibrissal 

 ridge by a distinct steep edge (I have never been able to see a 

 suture here), at other times it is not so defined and the line of sepa- 

 ration is an imaginary one, more or less clearly indicated by dif- 

 ferences in the characters of the hairs and bristles of the bucca and 

 the vibrissal ridge. That portion of the bucca which is on the occi- 

 pital surface is bounded by distinct sutures. The whole bucca is 

 hairy or bristly, the hairs and bristles varying in number and size 

 in different species. 



Mesad of the arms of the frontal suture, constituting the lateral 

 boundaries of the facial fossa, are two distinct ridges, one on each 

 side of the face. These are the vibrissal ridges, so-called because on 

 them the stout bristles called vibrissae are inserted. They were 

 called the faeialia by Desvoidy, by Walker and by Baron Osten- 

 Sacken, but the term used by Professor Brauer, " Vibrissenleisten," 

 meaning vibrissal ridges, is so much more appropriate, that I prefer 

 to sacrifice priority to good sense. If we follow the vibrissal ridge 

 dorsad we find that it diminishes in width and gradually disappear^ 

 from view under the gena. If we follow it ventrad we find that it 

 gradually increases in width, being largest at a point called the 

 vibrissal angle, where the largest of the vibrissa? is inserted. The 

 position of the vibrissal angle with relation to the edge of the mouth- 

 opening is not the same in all genera, being sometimes very close to 

 it and sometimes rather remote. In all the genera to be considered 

 in this paper, however, except Pollenia and Paracompsomyia, the 

 two are very close together. Dorsad of the vibrissal angle we 

 usually find one or more vibrissa? which are much smaller than the 

 one inserted at the angle. Dorsad of the smaller vibrissa? the ridge 

 is usually more or less thickly beset with minute bristles as far as 

 or beyond the ventral end of the arm of the frontal suture. Ven- 

 trad of the angle there are usually a few vibrissa?. 



The bristles of the legs require also a few words of introduction. 

 These bristles have not as yet received the study that they deserve 

 in the Muscidse. I believe there is a typical arrangement of these 



12 




170 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



^"^vv-^^.u 



a. 



i. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 171 



bristles subject, of course, to great variation but easily recognizable. 

 When the limbs of a Muscid are in their natural position it will at 

 once be seen that so far as the fore and hind legs are concerned, 

 one surface is turned toward the median line of the body and one 

 away from it ; these are the mesal and lateral surfaces respectively. 

 The lateral surfaces are provided with stouter and more numerous 

 bristles as would be expected if, as is supposed, the function of the 

 bristles is a protective one. The terms flexor and extensor need no 

 explanation. The anterior femur in cross section has the shape I, 

 1, and its bristles (at least the prominent ones) are in three rows, 

 each of which extends from base to apex. Two of these rows are 

 near the extensor border, the one nearest that border being made 

 up of larger bristles than the other ; the third row is very near the 

 flexor border ; all three are on the lateral surface. The hind femur 

 is shaped very like the fore femur, and has on its lateral surface an 

 extensor row and a flexor row of bristles, corresponding to the row 

 nearest the extensor border and the flexor row of the lateral surface 

 of the fore femur; the mesal surface has also a flexor row, but its 

 members are smaller and less numerous than those of the flexor row 

 of the lateral surface. The middle femur is much less flattened 

 than the others, and in its natural position its surfaces are anterior 

 and posterior flexor and extensor ; it has an anterior flexor and 

 posterior flexor row of bristles and also an anterior median and a 

 posterior median row. As a rule the median rows are incomplete, 

 l. e., do not extend all the way from base to apex. The anterior 

 commonly ends half way from base to apex, the most apical mem- 

 bers of the row being the largest, the posterior often begins about 

 half way from base to apex, and extends thence to the apex, its 

 apical members being also the largest, and usually the apical three 

 or four form a transverse group of considerable prominence. The 

 tibia? are, in cross section, almost triangular with a very well marked 

 extensor border and with flexor, mesal and lateral (middle tibia 

 with flexor, anterior and posterior) surfaces. The same difference 

 in size and number of bristles that was noted in the case of the 

 mesal and lateral surfaces of the fore and hiud femora is noticeable 

 in the corresponding tibiae, but is not 30 pronounced. Each of 

 these surfaces has, ordinarily, a flexor and extensor row of bristles. 

 The middle tibia has also flexor and extensor rows of bristles on its 

 anterior and posterior surfaces, and it has, in some genera, a prom- 

 inent bristle on the flexor surface which does not occur (as far as 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



my observation extends) on either of the other tibise, Very often 

 the surfaces of the tibire have other rows besides the flexor and ex* 

 tensor, such are usually made up of minute bristles, except for the 

 terminal subapical member, but sometimes one or more of the mem- 

 bers are largely developed and in consequence an oblique row of 

 large bristles may appear on the tibia as in I, 2. 



The apical bristles of the tibiae are remarkably constant in num- 

 ber, arrangement and relative size. 



Although the number of specimens collected by Dr. Smith in the 

 group Muscidre (sens, strict.) is quite small, only thirty-eight, never- 

 theless the collection is very interesting, including eleven genera, 

 of which three are new, and thirteen species of which seven are 



new. 



Genus GLOSSINA. 



Glossina longipennis Corti. 



Two females taken August 19, 1894, and August 24, 1894. 

 They agree perfectly with Corti's description, except that there are 

 no brown spots on the abdomen. 



Genus IDIA. 

 Idia lunata Wied. 



Three females taken September 29, 1894, October 2, 1894, and 

 November 10, 1894. 



Genus COSMINA. 



Cosmina sp. ? 



Female, taken November 10, 1894. Too imperfect to identify or 

 describe. 



Genus MUSCA. 



Musca domestica L. 



Female specimen, taken October 11, 1894. This is a variety with 

 color and markings of abdomen somewhat like the male. The 

 ground color is a dull reddish-brown, on each of the first three seg- 

 ments there is a narrow, median, cephalo-caudal black stripe ; the 

 whole of the ventral surface of all segments and the cephalic half 

 of the dorsal surface of the first segment are rather more yellow 

 than the remainder of the dorsal surface. In color of abdomen the 

 specimen reminds me of a female specimen sent me by Dr. Wm. A. 

 Nason, in which the abdomen had the color and markings of the 

 male. Structurally the specimen is identical with domestica although 

 it has, to be sure, five dorso-central bristles behind the suture, but 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



tliia number occurs occasionally in otherwise normal specimens both 

 of domestica and corvina. 



Musca corvina Fabr. 



One male taken September 10, 1894. 

 Musca biseta nov. sp. 



One male and four females, all taken March 10, 1894. Very 

 much like domestica, from which it differs as follows: 



Male. — Front about one-half as wide as in specimens of domestica 

 with the same width of head. Dorsum of first abdominal segment 

 entirely black. 



Female. — Front of same width as that of specimens of domestica 

 with same width of head, but the frontal vitta is decidedly narrower 

 and its lateral borders less curved. 



Both Sexes. — Smaller than the average sized domestica. Geno- 



vertical plates, genre, bucc?e and vibrissal ridges silvery white, with 



scarcely a trace of the yellowish tinge which so often predominates 



in domestica. Only two dorso-central bristles in front of the suture. 



Bristles of the extenso lateral row of the hind tibia equal or almost 



equal. No prominent bristle in the extenso-mesal row of the hind 



tibia. 



Genus MORELLIA. 

 Morellia podagrica Loew. 



Two males and one female taken March 10, 1894, and April 10, 

 1894. Agree perfectly with, but are smaller than, my European 

 specimens of this species. 



Genus PSEUDOPYRELLIA. 

 Pseudopyrellia sp. ? 



One male and one female taken March 10, 1894. This is a 

 new species. The specimens are too imperfect to describe fully. 

 The antennal arista has longer, more numerous and more delicate 

 hairs than comicina (American and European specimens), and the 

 female has on the thorax, in front of the suture, a broad, median, 

 cephalo-caudal hoary stripe which fades out before the suture is 

 reached. The distinctness and brilliancy of this stripe vary with 

 the iucidence of light. Of 100 American female specimens of com- 

 icina examined not one has this stripe. The front of the male is 

 much narrower than in comicina. 



Pseudopyrellia nuda nov. sp. 



Four females taken March 10, 1894, and September 29, 1894. 

 Length about 8 mm., of a brilliant metallic violet color, varying to 

 bronzy-green. Remarkably few and delicate macrochsetse. 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Width of head about 2.4 mm., of front about 0.7 mm. Vitta occu- 

 pies about one-third of the front. The genre and the ventral quarter 

 or fifth of the geno-vertical plates are silvery-white or dead black, 

 according to the incidence of the light, the remainder of the geno- 

 vertical plates, the ocellar prominence and the dorsal half of the 

 posterior orbit are metallic violet or green ; the ventral half of the 

 posterior orbit is silvery white, dead black or with metallic reflect- 

 ions according to the incidence of the light ; the buccse are dead 

 black or metallic violet according to the incidence of the light ; the 

 vibrissal ridges are black with slight metallic reflections ; the frontal 

 vitta is dead black. The bristles of the vertex are as in cornicina; 

 the hairs of the geno-vertical plates (there are no orbital bristles) 

 are as in cornicina, but much less numerous; the bristles of the 

 vibrissal ridges are yellowish-brown and arranged as in cornicina; 

 the buccse are sparsely beset with delicate yellowish-brown hairs. 

 Palpi black or dark brown, dilated at the apices; proboscis black 

 or dark brown, with some metallic reflections. Antenna, 2d joint 

 0.2 mm., 3d joint 0.6 mm.; color brown, 3d joint lighter than 2d. 

 The whole thorax and abdomen has a finely punctate appearance 

 and is remarkably free from macrocksetse, although quite as thickly 

 clothed with fine hairs as is usual in the Muscidae. 



Bristles of thorax. — I, 3a, 3b, 3c. Humeral, 1. Dor so-central, 4, 

 2 in front and 2 behind the suture, the posterior is of good size, the 

 rest are minute. Intra-alar, 1, very small. Supra-alar, 1, very 

 small. Post alar, 2, as usual, of good size. Notopleural, 2, as usual, 

 of good size. Scutellar, apical and two marginal, of good size. 

 Tegulse hyaline ; Halteres pale yellow. 



Legs. — Femora black or very dark brown, with some metallic 

 reflections. Tibise and tarsi black or very dark brown ; bristles of 

 legs much smaller and less numerous than usual in the Museidse. 



Fore Leg. — Femur. — Only oneextenso-lateral row of bristles, and 

 this is made up of fewer and smaller bristles than usual. Bristles 

 of flexo-lateral row smaller and much fewer than usual. Tibia. — 

 No prominent bristles except the preapical of extensor border. 



Middle Leg. — Femur. — The usual rows are present, but the indi- 

 vidual bristles are small, and there are but few of them. The only 

 respectable sized bristle of the femur is the preapical of the poste- 

 rior surface. Tibia. — Anterior surface no bristles at all. Posterior 

 surface. — One prominent bristle at the middle of the tibia and a 

 varying number of other much smaller bristles. Flexor surface. — 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



One large bristle, about twice as large as the largest of the posterior 

 surface, at the junction of the third and apical fourths, inserted 

 close to the edge of the posterior surface. 



Hind Leg. — Femur. — The usual rows present but of fewer and 

 smaller bristles than usual. Tibia. — No prominent bristles save 

 one very delicate flexo-lateral. 



Genus POLLENIA. 



I might consider the species to be here described as the type of a 

 new genus in deference to the views of Professor Brauer as I under- 

 stand them. He gives as one of the characters of Pollenia: " two 

 orbital bristles in the female." These specimens have from four to 

 six orbital bristles of large size inserted in a dorso-ventral line 

 roughly parallel to the insertions of the trans-frontal bristles and 

 laterad these large orbitalsand parallel to them another row of very 

 small bristles. I am sure that the number of large orbital bristles 

 may vary in individuals of the same species and, therefore, am per- 

 sonally of the opinion that their number is not always a character 

 of generic value, e. g., in our common species of Morellia the num- 

 ber of large orbital bristles varies from two to seven, frequently dif- 

 fering on the two sides of the same specimen. Such being the case, 

 it seems to me that I must include this species in Pollenia since it 

 presents all the characters of that genus except the one mentioned. 

 The woolly hair is present only on the caudal border of the meso- 

 pleura, caudad the row of bristles which protect the root of the 

 wing, a condition often met with in our common P. rudis if the 

 specimen is not fresh. The specimens look as if they had been wet. 

 Pollenia virido-cana nov. sp. 



Three females taken September 5, 1895. Length about 7.5 mm. ; 

 width of head about 2.2 mm., of front about 0.75, of frontal vitta 

 about 0.25 mm. Looking at the head directly from in front, the 

 height of the eye is 1.3 mm., of the bucca 0.4 mm. The highest 

 point of the vertex is a little higher (about 0.1 mm) than the high- 

 est point of the eye. The third antennal joint is twice as long as 

 the second. 



The general color of the fly is a dirty greenish-white or gray. On 

 close examination it is seen that the ground color of the thorax and 

 abdomen is a metallic green, but that this is more or less concealed 

 by a thick, whitish, hoary coating. In some lights there seem to 

 be two dorso-ceutral bands on the thorax which are free from this 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



coating. The anterior femora are of the same colors as the thorax, 

 the middle and posterior femora are dark brown, with here and 

 there suggestions of the green color and hoary coating. The tibiae 

 and tarsi are a very dark brown. Tegulse milky white. Halteres 

 brownish. The gense, geno-vertical plates, ocellar triangle, poste- 

 rior orbits, buecse and vibrissal ridges are dirty white with the usual 

 silky lustre, varying according to the incidence of the light to a pale 

 brown. Frontal vitta pale brown. Antennse: second joint pale 

 brown, third joint darker brown with hoary coating. 



Bristles of Head. — Inner vertical, outer vertical, greater ocellar, 

 and cilise of posterior orbit as in P. rudis. Lesser ocellar less 

 numerous than in rudis, only three or two pairs. Ascending frontal, 

 one, large. Transfrontal six to eight, mostly decussate over the nar- 

 row vitta. Orbital : a row of four to six large bristles, the inser- 

 tions of which are roughly parallel to the insertions of the trans- 

 frontals ; a second row laterad the large ones and parallel to them 

 composed of very small bristles. Gense bare. Buccse with a series 

 of stout bristles along the edge of the mouth opening and with the 

 remainder of their surface sparsely beset with very fine hairs. Vi- 

 brissal ridges with a very few hairs dorsad the principal vibrissa 

 extending; little or not at all dorsad the ventral end of the arm of 

 the frontal suture. 



Bristles of Thorax, I, 5a, 5b, 5c. Humeral, 3. Post-humeral, 2. 

 Dorso central, 6, two in front of and four behind the suture. 

 Acrostichals very small, one anterior and two posterior to the 

 suture. Intra-alar, 4, one in front of and three behind the suture ; 

 the most posterior is very small and a little mesad the line of the 

 others. Supra-alar, 3, of which, as usual, the middle one is much 

 the largest. Post-alar, 2, as usual. Notopleural, 2, as usual. 



Scutellar. — A small bristle of the jugum, an apical, two marginal 

 and a rather small discal. 



Bristles of Abdomen. — As usual in Muscidre (sens, strict.). 



The macrochaetse of the head and thorax and nearly all the minute 

 bristles and hairs of the thorax and abdomen appear to be inserted 

 at the centres of little black disc-shaped spots. 



Bristles of the Legs. — Too imperfect to be described. The only 

 especially noteworthy feature that can be made out is a long, stout 

 bristle at the middle of the anterior surface of the middle femur. 

 This represents, apparently, the anterior median row of bristles of 

 the middle femur that is so universally present in the Muscidse (sens. 

 strict.) aud is so well developed in P. rudis. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



Genus LUCILIA. 

 Lucilia spinicosta nov. sp. 



One male and one female, taken March 10, 1894. Length : 

 about 5.5 mm. (male) and 6.0 mm. (female). Width of head: male 

 2.0 mm. female 2.2 mm. Width of front: male 0.1 mm. at narrow- 

 est part, females 0.8 mm., vitta of female 0.5 mm. Third antennal 

 joint twice as long as the second. 



Color. — The usual metallic green of Lucilia? with some hoary re- 

 flections. Legs yellowish-brown, femora much darker than tibiae 

 and tarsi. Tegulae : inferior dark smoky brown almost black, supe- 

 rior hyaline. Halteres yellowish. Genre, geno-vertical plate, pos- 

 terior orbit, buccse and vibrissal ridges silvery-white. Antennae: 

 second joint and base of third yellowish-brown, remainder of third 

 chestnut-brown. Palpi yellowish-brown. Wings hyaline, slightly 

 stained with yellowish-brown toward the costal border. 



On the costal border of the wing, basad of but very close to the 

 end of the auxiliary vein, is a good sized spine. On both the upper 

 and under surfaces of the wing the third longitudinal vein bears a 

 number of minute spines, those beneath are four or five in number 

 and much more delicate than those above, those above are ten or 

 twelve in number and extend nearly to the small cross vein. 



Bristles of the Head. — As usual in Luciliae. 



Bristles of the Thorax. — I, 7a, 7b, 7c. Humeral, 3. Post humeral, 

 2. Dorso-central, 5, 2 in front and 3 behind the suture. Intra alar, 

 4, one in front and 3 behind the suture. Acrostichal, 5, 2 in front 

 and 3 behind the suture. Presutural, notopleural, supra alar and 

 post alar as usual. Scutellar, apical, 3 marginal and one discal. 

 Sternopleura and mesopleura as usual in Luciliae. 



Bristles of Abdomen. — On hind border of second segment a num- 

 ber of small appressed bristles. On hind border of third segment 

 about twelve to fourteen larger and less appressed bristles. On the 

 fourth segment about twelve not at all appressed quite good sized 

 bristles both marginal and discal. In the male these bristles are 

 larger than in the female. 



Bristles of the Legs. — Fore Leg. — Femur : as usual but dorsal 

 lateral extensor row has only about six members. Tibia : in the 

 lateral extensor row there is in the male, but not in the female, a little 

 basad the junction of middle and apical thirds one rather prominent 

 bristle ; in the lateral flexor row there is one large bristle at the 

 junction of the apical and middle thirds ; in the mesal extensor row 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



there are no prominent bristles ; in the mesal flexor row there are 

 about four prominent bristles and these are larger in female than in 

 the male. 



Middle Leg. — Femur : as usual. Tibia : the anterior surface, a 

 little apicad the middle, has one large bristle ; the posterior surface 

 has two rather smaller, one at the middle and one near the apical 

 end of the basal third ; flexor surface has one at about the junction 

 of the middle and apical thirds. 



Hind Leg. — Femur: as usual. Tibia: the lateral extensor row 

 has from three to five prominent bristles and the mesal extensor row 

 two, of which one is very near the middle and the other in the 

 basal quarter; no prominent bristles in either flexor row. 



Genus PAROCHROMYIA. 



The species to be here described would find its place in the table 

 of Brauer and Bergenstamm 1 between Ochromyia and Zovochroa. 



The eyes of the male are very close together but not in contact 

 and the male has no transfrontal bristles above the middle point be- 

 tween the base of the antennas and the vertex. Both sexes have 

 ocellar bristles. Both sexes have abdominal marochsetas at the sides 

 of each segment, on the hind margin of the third segment (appressed 

 and delicate), and on the fourth ; the male also has some on the 

 hind margin of the second but they are more delicate than those of 

 the third. The female has one fair sized orbital bristle at the upper 

 part of the geno-vertical plate and, extending ventrad from this, a 

 series of very delicate, minute bristles or hairs which extend along 

 the whole of the geno-vertical plate and on the gena about half way 

 to the end of the arm of the frontal suture. 



In Girschner's system I should place this species among the Cal- 

 liphorinse with the description of which it agrees 2 except that it has 

 three posterior intra-alar bristles. The sterno-pleural bristles have 

 the arrangement 1-1. I can not make out the arrangement of the 

 second ventral segment. 



Parochromyia varia nov. sp. 



Three males and three females, taken March 10, 1894, Nov. 17, 

 1894, Sept. 3, 1895. A pale yellowish- brown fly about 6.5 to 7.5 

 mm. long. The wings are notably broad and extend a little 

 beyond the apex of the abdomen. 



'Vorarbeiten zu einer Monogr., etc, Pars III, p. 90, (178). 

 2 Separat-Abdruck aus der Illustrirten Wochenschrift fur Entomologie, Vol. 

 I, 189H, p. 14. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



Head. — The antennse, bucca?, genae, vibrissa! ridges, facial fossa 

 and ventral third to half of the geno-vertical plate are all pale 

 yellowish -brown. The remainder of the geno-vertical plate is bluish 

 gray. The frontal vitta is brown with a slight reddish tinge. The 

 posterior orbit differs in the two sexes. In the female it is about 

 0.1 mm. wide, bluish-gray dorsally and shading off ventrally to pale 

 yellow ; in the male it is narrower, entirely absent along the dorsal 

 third or half of the eye and entirely yellow. In the female the front 

 occupies about one-third of the width of the head and is mostly made 

 up of the frontal vitta the geno-vertical plate being very narrow. 



Bristles of the head. — Female : — Seven to nine transfrontal of good 

 size and a few small intercalarv, sometimes the larger ones decussate 

 and sometimes not, they extend a little ventrad the insertion of the 

 antennas. Ascending frontal, one. Orbital as mentioned in the 

 generic description. Greater ocellar, of good size, divergent. Lesser 

 ocellar, several pairs all parallel to the greater; one very small pair 

 is situated ventrad the greater, there are several small pairs dorsad 

 the greater and one pair at the dorsal border of the ocellar triangle 

 is half to three quarters the size of the greater. Inner vertical and 

 outer vertical, inserted as usual, equal ; only a little larger than the 

 ascending frontal, larger than the greater ocellar. Post vertical 

 small, erect, parallel to one another, inserted on the occipito-vertical 

 border a trifle caudad the line of the inner verticals. Occipito- 

 central, very small and delicate, inserted very close to the occipito- 

 vertical edge. Occipito-lateral not present. Cilia? of posterior 

 orbit rather sparse but well aligned, extending ventrad to the caudo- 

 ventral angle of the eye. Bucca: vertical diameter as seen from in 

 front nearly one half that of eye ; along edge of mouth-opening a 

 series of large stout bristles, the remainder sparsely beset with min- 

 ute hairs. Vibrissal ridges: a few minute bristles dorsad the prin- 

 cipal vibrissa extending to a point a very little dorsad the ventral 

 end of the arm of the frontal suture. 



Male: — Transfrontal, as mentioned in the generic description, 

 about seven in number. Inner vertical good sized. Outer vertical 

 absent as is usual in male Muscida?. Greater ocellar much smaller 

 than in the female (the usual thing in Muscida?). Lesser ocellar, 

 quite numerous, some of them almost equal to the greater. Post 

 vertical as in the female. Occipito-central (doubled in one speci- 

 men), cilia? of posterior orbit, bucca and vibrissal ridges as in female. 



Antenna. — Third joint about twice as long as the second. Arista 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



longer than second and third joints together, its hairs rather few 

 (about eight above and six below). The exact shade of color varies 

 in different specimens, being sometimes darker and sometimes lighter; 

 in one female the third joint is almost a chestnut-brown. Proboscis 

 and palpi yellowish-brown. ' 



Thorax. — Color, varying shades of yellowish-brown, darker on the 

 dorsum. On the dorsum, bands of dark brown or bluish-gray, vary- 

 ing much in width in different specimens (in one male none at all). 

 A dark spot on the middle of the scutellum in all the females and 

 iu one male. 



Bristles of the Thorax, \, 9a, 9b, 9c. Humeral, 3. Posthumeral, 

 3, outermost on a level ventrad the presutural. Dorso-central, 6, 

 two in front and four behind the suture. Intra-alar, 4, one in front 

 and three behind the suture. Acrostichal, 6, three in front and three 

 behind the suture. Presutural, notopleural, supra-alar and post-alar 

 as usual. Post-sutural, I venture to apply this name to a bristle, 

 present in all the specimens of this species, which I have not been 

 able to find in any other Muscids that I have seen. It is situated 

 caudad the transverse suture of the thorax, a little mesad and cau- 

 dad the anterior supra-alar, and laterad the intra-alar No. 3 (I num- 

 ber the intra alars, dorso-centrals and acrostichals from the caudal 

 end of the thorax cephalad, thus the intra-alar nearest the scutellum 

 is No. 1). 



Scutellar. — Apical, three marginal, jugal, two discal of which the 

 anterior is considerably the larger. 



Abdomen. — Color : Principally yellowish-brown; of varying shade 

 in different specimens. There are also some very dark brown, al- 

 most black, markings as follows : on the first segment a very nar- 

 row band on the hind margin ; on second segment a broader band 

 and a median mark, (1, 11) the width of the band and the size of the 

 mark varying considerably ; third segment like second, but the band 

 broader and the mark larger, so that in some specimens almost the 

 whole segment is dark brown or black : fourth segment entirely 

 black or dark brown. 



Bristles. — There are bristles on the hind borders of the first three 

 segments. Toward and at the sides of the segments the bristles are 

 larger than toward the middle. All are more or less appressed. 

 Those toward the middle can hardly be called macrochaetae until 

 we reach the third segment. On the fourth there are some discal as 

 well as marginal macrochaetae, and they are none of them ap- 

 pressed. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



Legs. — Color: Yellowish-brown. Bristles: Fore-leg, femur, as 

 usual. Tibia, lateral flexor row has one large bristle at the junction 

 of the middle and apical thirds, mesal extensor row has from four 

 to six rather small bristles about equal and equi-distant, extending 

 from very near the base to very near the apex. Middle leg : Femur, 

 as usual, but the anterior median row is represented by only one 

 bristle of good size which is situated just at the middle of the femur. 

 On the whole, the bristles of this femur are rather few. Tibia : An- 

 terior surface, one large bristle at junction of apical and middle 

 thirds ; posterior surface two, rather smaller at junction of basal and 

 middle, and middle and apical thirds respectively; flexor surface 

 one, rather small at junction of apical and middle thirds. Hind'leg : 

 Femur, as usual. Tibia, mesal extensor row has usually two promi- 

 nent but not very large bristles situated respectively at the junction 

 of the basal and middle, and middle and apical thirds (sometimes 

 the former is absent) ; lateral extensor row has a considerable but 

 varying number of unequal but almost equidistant bristles extend- 

 ing from base to apex ; lateral flexor row is represented by only 

 one bristle situated at the junction of the apical and middle thirds. 



Genus SOMALIA. 



There is but a single specimen, and that a female of the species 

 on which I found this new genus, but the characters are so pro- 

 nounced that I have no hesitation in so doing. In the table of 

 Brauer & Bergenstamm 3 this genus would fall in the group with 

 Dasyphora, except that it has but one large orbital bristle. It dif- 

 fers, however, from Dasyphora in several points: (1) the sterno- 

 pleural bristles have the arrangement 2-1, instead of 1-3 ; (2) there 

 is a row of bristles on the hypo-pleura ; (3) the third joint of the 

 antenna is much shorter as compared with the second ; (4) the out- 

 line of the arista as a whole is much narrower, and its hairs are less 

 closely set; (5) the eyes are only minutely hairy with a magnifica- 

 tion of twenty diameters; (6) the post-vertical bristles are very 

 small, while in Dasyj)hora they are large. 



In Girschner's classification the new genus stands far away from 

 Dasyphora in the 6th or 7th group of his Tacbinidse. 



Somalia enigmatica nov. sp. 



One female, taken October 11, 1894. 



' Vorarb. zu Monog. Muse. Schiz., Part III, p. 90 et seq. 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Length about 8.0 mm. Width of head 2.5 mm., of front 0.9 mm. 

 (vitta 0.5 mm., geno- vertical plates each 0.2 mm.). Looked at 

 squarely from in front the dorso-ventral diameter of the head is 2.3 

 mm., the vertex extends 0.1 mm. dorsad the eyes, the dorso-ventral 

 diameter of the eye is 1.5 mm., of the bucca 0.7 mm. Third anten- 

 nal joint about li times as long as the second. General color pale 

 olive-green with a hoary coating, legs a yellowish-brown, except 

 that the third, fourth and fifth tarsal joints and the apical part of 

 the second are black. On the thorax, in front of the suture, are two 

 narrow bands, one on each side, between the acrostichal and dorso- 

 central bristles, which have no hoary coating ; these bands broaden 

 cephalad and unite at the cephalic border of the thorax. On the 

 second, third and fourth abdominal segments there is a narrow, 

 median, cephalo-caudal dark brown stripe not represented in the 

 diagram, I, 13, which shows also the arrangement of the abdominal 

 bristles. 



Head. — Color : Genae, geno-vertical plate, facial fossa, vibrissal 

 ridges, posterior orbits and ocellar prominence silvery ; vitta dark 

 brown; bucca olive; transverse impression of the face yellowish- 

 brown with silvery coating. Second joint of antennse yellowish- 

 brown, third joint darker with a hoary coating. Palpi yellowish- 

 brown. Proboscis black. 



Bristles: Trans-frontal, about eight, of which the ventral four or 

 five are of good size and inserted close together, the rest small and 

 scattered. Ascending frontal, one, large. Orbitals, one large at 

 about the junction of the dorsal and middle thirds of the front and 

 one exceedingly minute a little dorsad the large one, no others at 

 all. The bristles at the vertex are somewhat injured, and I can 

 only say that the inner vertical, outer vertical, greater and lesser 

 ocellar, post-vertical (very small), and ciliae of the posterior orbit 

 are present ; nothing unusual can be made out in regard to them in 

 this specimen. Gense naked. Bucca? distinctly separated from the 

 vibrissal ridges ; parallel to the edge of the mouth-opening and a 

 little distance from it is a row of coarse bristles ; near the cephalic 

 end of the bucca about as far dorsad the large bristles of the mouth- 

 edge as they are from the mouth edge itself, are two stout bristles 

 about equal in size to those of the mouth edge ; the rest of the bucca 

 is rather sparsely beset with minute bristles and hairs. Vibrissal 

 ridges : The principal vibrissa and the vibrissal angle are close to 

 the edge of the mouth opening; dorsad the principal vibrissa there 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



are only a few minute bristles not extending as far as the ventral 

 end of the arm of the frontal suture; ventrad the principal vibrissa 

 are four lesser vibrissa inserted along the edge of the mouth opening 

 as far as the cephalic end of the bucca. 



Thorax. — Color, as mentioned above. Halteres yellow. Tegulse 

 hyaline, milky white toward the edges. 



Bristles, I, 15a, 15b, 15c. Humeral, 2. Post humeral, 1, on a level 

 dorsad the presutural. Dorso-central, 5, two in front and three be- 

 hind the suture. Intra-alar, 3, none in front of the suture. Acros- 

 tichal, 2, one in front and one behind the suture, both small. Presu- 

 tural, notopleural, supraalar and postalar as usual. Scutellar : apical, 

 two submarginal and one small discal or subapical. 



Mesopleural. At the dorso-cephalic angle is a group of little 

 hairs, among which two are more prominent than the rest, and per- 

 haps deserve to be called bristles, an arrangement recalling the 

 prominent bristle in this situation which is so constant in the genera 

 Morellia, Muscinia, Musca, Myospila and their allies. As usual, there 

 is a large bristle just ventrad the prostigma, a little ventrad and 

 caudad this bristle is another, much smaller but decidedly promi- 

 nent, which I have not found in any other Muscid. 



Stemopleural. Two in front and one behind. Pteropleural and 

 hypopleural present. 



Wing. Venation shown in the figure. On the third longitudi- 

 nal vein are about ten little spines quite regularly distributed from 

 the base to near the small cross vein. There is a costal spine just 

 basad the end of the auxiliary vein. 



Ventral surface of abdomen. No ventral membrane ; second 

 ventral segment overlaps the edges of the corresponding dorsal, all 

 the other ventral segments are overlapped by the corresponding 

 dorsal. 



ii. 



Bristles of the Legs. — Anterior femur as usual. Anterior tibia : 

 ateral flexor row has one large bristle at the junction of the middle 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



and apical thirds; mesal extensor row has three prominent bristles 

 as arranged in II, 1. Middle femur has one large bristle at the 

 middle of the anterior surface, a few bristles in the flexor row of 

 each surface, and on the posterior surface a subapical transverse 

 group of three. Middle tibia has one on the anterior, II, 2, three 

 on the posterior, II, 3, and one on the flexor, II, 4, surface. Poste- 

 rior femur as usual. Posterior tibia has four on the lateral surface 

 (two flexor and two extensor, II, 5), and two on the mesal surface 

 11,6. 



Genus PARACOMPSOMYIA. 



Very close to Compsomyia. In the table of genera of Brauer and 

 Bergenstamm it would fall with Compsomyia from which it differs as 

 follows : wings not hyaline but, toward base and costa, black or very 

 dark brown ; thorax without longitudinal black stripes ; the vibrissal 

 angles are not as far dorsad the mouth edge as in Compsomyia-, 

 there are no vibrissa? ventrad the principal vibrissa; the orbital 

 bristles are much smaller than in Comjisomyia and are directed 

 laterad instead of ventrad ; the sterno pleural bristles are 1-1 instead 

 of 2-1. 



Paracompsomyia nigripennis nov. sp. 



Four females, taken August 23, 1894. Large metallic blue, violet 

 or green flies with yellow heads, black legs and with the costal 

 border and basal half of the wings black or very dark brown. 

 Length of body 11 to 12 mm., of wing 10 mm. Width of head 5 

 mm. ; of front 1.7 mm. at base of antennse, 1.8 mm. at vertex ; fron- 

 tal vitta 1 mm. at widest point, 0.7 mm. at base of antennse. Looked 

 at squarely from in front the dorso- ventral diameter of the head 

 (height) is 4.2 mm., the vertex extends 0.2 mm. dorsad the dorsal 

 border of the eyes, the dorso-ventral diameter of the eye is 2.5 mm., 

 of the bucca 1.5 mm. The second antennal joint is 0.3 mm. long, 

 the third is 1.1 mm. 



Head. — Color : — dorsal two-thirds of geno- vertical plate is polished 

 ferruginous, the ventral third as also the gena?, buccoe, vibrissal 

 ridges and facial fossa are a paler, yellowish-brown with a thin 

 hoary coating. Vitta ferruginous. Antenna? yellowish-brown. 

 Ocellar prominence and an adjoining triangular area of varying 

 size at the dorsal part of the occiput ferruginous to yellowish-brown 

 varying in different specimens. Posterior orbit silvery. Palpi 

 yellow. Proboscis dark brown to black. 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



185 



Bristles. — Inner vertical and outer vertical of good size, inserted 

 as usual. Post vertical very small, inserted a little caudad the line 

 of the inner verticals. Occipito-central replaced by a number of 

 minute bristles. Cilia? of posterior orbit as usual, well aligned, 

 rather small. Greater ocellar very small, divergent, pointing almost 

 directly laterad. Lesser ocellar exceedingly minute, numerous, in 

 four to six rows, occupying nearly the whole of the ocellar promin- 

 ence and extending caudad to or nearly to the line of the inner ver- 

 ticals. Ascending frontal, one, parallel to the outer vertical, in- 

 serted on a level with the greater ocellar some distance laterad the 

 line of insertion of the transfrontals halfway between that line and 

 the lateral border of the geno-vertical plate. Transfrontals ten to 

 twelve, small, non deccusate. Orbitals two, very small (0.2 to 0.3 

 mm. long), curved laterad instead of ventrad as usual, inserted 



/v <OJ 



2/4 





Humeral, 3. Dorso-central, 5, 2 in front of and 3 behind the 

 suture. Intra-alar, 1. Supra-alar, 2. Acrostichal, 1, posterior. 

 Presutural, notopleural and postalar as usual. Scutellar : Apical, 

 four marginal and two discal as figured. 



about at the middle (dorso-ventrally) of the geno-vertical plate and 

 0.3 or 0.4 mm. (dorso-ventrally) from each other ; besides these two 

 orbitals the geno-vertical plate is quite thickly clothed with very 

 minute hairs or bristles which toward the vertex are black and 

 toward the gena? are whitish or colorless. Gense, clothed like the 

 geno-vertical plates with exceedingly delicate and minute whitish 

 hairs. Buccal clothed like the gen a?, but toward the occiput the 

 hairs are much longer than elsewhere (as much as 0.2 mm.). Vi- 

 brissal ridges almost straight, only very slightly convex laterad; 



13 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



vibrissal angle and principal vibrissa a little above the mouth edge 

 but not as high as in Compsomyia macellaria or in Pollenia; the 

 principal vibrissa is very small for the size of the fly ; there are no 

 other vibrissa? but the ridges are clothed nearly their whole length 

 with exceedingly minute whitish hairs. 



The arista is about as long as the third antennal joint and is 

 densely plumose with fine hairs. Its rhachis is yellow toward the 

 base while its apical part and the hairs appear black. 



Thorax. — Color. — Metallic blue, violet or green with hoary coat- 

 ing. The hoary coating is much thicker in front of than behind the 

 suture. The prostigma is very large and is white. Halteres yellow- 

 ish. Tegulse wbite with smoky brown or black border of very vary- 

 ing width. 



Bristles. — There is a row of bristles on the hypopleura and some 

 bristles on the pteropleura. 



Abdomen. — Color. — Metallic blue, violet or green with a hoary 

 coating which is thickest toward the sides and on the ventral sur- 

 face. The first segment and the caudal borders of the second and 

 third are not hoary. The fourth segment is quite thickly covered 

 with whitish hairs. There are no abdominal macrocbretse. The 

 second ventral plate overlaps the corresponding dorsal plates a very 

 little, the other ventral plates are overlapped by the corresponding 

 dorsal plates. 



Br-istles of the Legs. — Femora as usual in the Muscidse. Tibia? : 

 anterior tibia has on the mesal surface in the extensor row three 

 prominent bristles III, 4, and on the lateral surface in the flexor 

 row one III, 5 ; middle tibia has on the anterior surface one III, 6 

 on the posterior surface three III, 7, and on the flexor surface one 

 III, 8 ; hind tibia has on the lateral surface in the flexor row two 

 III, 9, and on the mesal surface, in the extensor row, one III, 10. 



Explanation of Figures. 



I. 



1. Cross section of anterior femur of a Muscid. 



2. Formation of an oblique row of bristles on the tibia. 

 3a. Bristles of thorax of Pseudopyrellia nuda nov. sp. 



3b. Bristles of sternopleura of Pseudopyrellia nuda nov. sp. 



3c. Bristles of mesopleura of Pseudopyrellia nuda nov. sp. 



4. Wing of Pseudopyrellia nuda nov. sp. 



5a. Bristles of thorax of Pollenia virido-cana nov. sp. 



5b. Sternopleura of Pollenia virido-cana nov. sp. 



5c. Mesopleura of Pollenia virido-cana nov. sp. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



6. Wing of Pollenia virido-cana nov. sp. 



7a. Bristles of thorax of Lucilia spinicosta nov. sp. 



7b. Sternopleura of Lucilia spinicosta nov. sp. 



7c. Mesopleura of Lucilia spinicosta nov. sp. 



8. Wing of Lucilia spinicosta nov. sp. 



9a. Bristles of thorax of Parochromyia varia nov. sp. 



9b. Sternopleura of Parochromyia varia nov. sp. 



9c. Mesopleura of Parochromyia varia nov. sp. 



10. Wing of Parochromyia varia nov. sp. 



1 1 . Marking of abdominal segment of Parochromyia varia. 



12. Arista of Somalia enigmatica nov. sp. 



13. Abdomen of Somalia enigmatica nov. sp. 



14. Wing of Somalia enigmatica nov. sp. 



15a. Bristles of thorax of Somalia enigmatica nov. sp. 

 15b. Mesopleura of Somalia enigmatica nov. sp. 

 15c. Sternopleura of Somalia enigmatica nov. sp. 



Diagrams of positions of bristles of tibise of Somalia enigmatica. 



1. Anterior tibia ; mesal surface, extensor row. 



2. Middle tibia ; anterior surface. 



3. Middle tibia ; posterior surface. 



4. Middle tibia ; flexor surface. 



5. Posterior tibia ; lateral surface. 



6. Posterior tibia ; mesal surface. 

 III. 



1. Antenna of Paracompsomyia nigripennis nov. sp. 



2a, 2b, 2c. Thorax, mesopleura and sternopleura of same 



3. Wing of same. 



4 to 10 positions of bristles of tibise of same. 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



A NEW WEASEL FKOM NEW MEXICO. 

 BY C. M. BARBER AND T. D. A. COCKERELL. 



Putorius frenatus subsp. neomexicanus n. subsp. 



Similar to P. frenatus, but paler in color ; white markings on 

 head more extensive, the white patch between the eyes large, quad- 

 rangular, and confluent with the stripes between eye and ear. 



Color. — Upper parts, including legs and body from shoulders to 

 tail, entirely of a uniform pale yellowish ochre, a sort of dilute 

 coffee color, but warmer; feet decidedly pallid, but not white. 

 Tail the color of the back, but rather more tinged with reddish, the 

 apical 50 mm. black. Under parts, including breast and throat, 

 uniform light yellowish-ochreous, a tint like that of the back but 

 somewhat paler. Head brownish-black ; a large quadrangular 

 creamy-white patch between the eyes, slightly broadest behind, 

 about one-fifth longer than its greatest breadth, narrowly confluent 

 with broad white bands between the eye and ear, which latter ex- 

 tend downward and backward, fading gradually into the ochreous 

 color of the under parts. Face in front of median white patch 

 slightly speckled with whitish. Long bristles of upper lip, some 

 black and some white ; a variable amount of white on upper lip ; no 

 black behind angles of mouth. Hair of ears brown-black, but white 

 hairs from the lateral bands invade the lower anterior parts, over- 

 lapping the aperture. The black of the head fades into brown be- 

 hind the plane of the ears, and shows here a small whitish mark ; 

 the area behind the lower part of the ears is strongly suffused with 

 blackish, contrasting with the yellowish-white immediately below. 



Cranial characters. — Compared with Merriam's figure of the skull 

 of frenatus (N. A. Weasels, PI. Ill, f. 1), the skull of neomexicanus 

 is similar, but the frontal region is less narrowed anteriorly and 

 slightly more convex ; and the zyomatic processes seem less produced 

 in a lateral direction ; the occipital condyles are more produced be- 

 hind. 



Total length of skull 54 mm.; greatest breadth 32 ; interorbital 

 breadth 14J ; foramen magnum to plane of last molars 34 mm. 



Measurements (of type specimen in flesh). — Length 500 mm., tail 

 205, hind feet 50. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



Hab. — The Mesilla Valley of New Mexico, near the Rio Grande, 

 alt. about 3,800 ft. 



The type specimen was shot in the grass on the shore of Arm- 

 strong's Lake, Mesilla, Feb. 1, 1898, by Mr. A. C. Tyson. It is an 

 old male ; the teeth are somewhat worn and one or two are gone. 

 It had eaten some small rodent, which from the foot found in the 

 stomach seems to be Onychomys arcticeps Rhoads. A second speci- 

 men, also a male, was given to us by Mr. C. Barnes, who obtained 

 it from Mr. J. J. Roese. It was killed by a dog in Mesilla Park, 

 and was, unfortunately, much decomposed when it reached our 

 hands. It agrees with the typical specimen, except that the throat 

 is whiter and there is a little more white on the upper lip. Mr. 

 Roese reports that he recently saw four specimens together in a 

 road, early in the morning ; this, with the development of the sex- 

 ual organs, leads us to believe that this (beginning of February and 

 end of January) is the mating season. 



A specimen without any history, in alcohol, is in the collection of 

 the New Mexico Agricultural College. It approaches true frenatus 

 more than our examples, having a spot behind the angle of the 

 mouth, and the white median patch of the head confluent only on one 

 side with the lateral band. The discovery of P. frenatus neomexi- 

 canus extends the range of the frenatus series many hundreds of miles 

 to the north, and into the Upper Sonoran Zone. One of us, after 

 reading Dr. Merriam's account of the North American weasels, 

 prophesied that there would be a new type found in the Mesilla 

 Valley, and such proves to be the case, the characters of our ani- 

 mal, while surely of no more than subspecific value, being quite 

 distinct. 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



ON THE GENUS HALIA OF KISSO. 

 BY WM. H. DALL. 



The systematic position of the genus Halia, a curious deep water 

 gastropod discovered in the last century, has long been contested. 

 Lamarck (who knew it only by the shell) put it among the land- 

 shells like Achatina, Martyn referred it to the whelks (Buccinidce), 

 Jay and Sacco classified it in the vicinity of Struthiolaria, and 

 Sowerby near Purpura. Fischer, in 1858, was the first to examine 

 it anatomically and concluded that it was one of the Toxifera, 

 related to Pleurotoma. The paper was one of his earliest and rather 

 crude; though it added materially to our knowledge, the conclu- 

 sions were not altogether satisfactory to students of molluscan 

 anatomy. Nevertheless his view has been accepted so late as 1896 

 by M. Cossmann, one of the leading paleontologists of France. In 

 1885 Poirier, of the Paris Museum, was lucky enough to obtain a 

 specimen, a female, like that of Fischer, dredged in fifty fathoms 

 at the mouth of the Gambia River. His discussion of the dis- 

 section 1 added very considerably to our acquaintance with the 

 macroscopic anatomy and that of the nervous system. He was, 

 however, little less unfortunate than Fischer in his examination of 

 the most important systematic character, the radula, and reported 

 an extraordinary duplication of the oesophagus, such as is quite un- 

 known elsewhere in mollusks, and which would require the most 

 conclusive confirmation to receive credence from anatomists. Poi- 

 rier reverted to the opinion of Martyn that Halia is Buccinoid, 

 which being interpreted into systematic language, means that he 

 recognized in it the characteristics of a rhachiglossate Prosobranch, 

 which is essentially correct. The true relations of this remarkable 

 form were first recognized by Kobelt in a later publication 2 which 

 has unfortunately remained unfinished and has attracted no atten- 

 tion from anatomists. In view of the fact that the early errors 

 have obtained such a wide currency and that, even in Fischer's 

 Manual, the characters of the nearest allied form are incorrectly 



1 Bull. Malac. Soc. de France, July, 1885, pp. 17-50, pi. II-IV. 



2 Inconographie der schalentragenden europ. Meeresconchylien, II, p. 6. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



given, it seems worth while to restate the latest and most trust- 

 worthy conclusions. 



Each tooth of Halia is shaped much like a " wish-bone," the 

 prongs forming an arched divergent base and the central projecting 

 portion at the junction, the cusp. The attached bases of the arch 

 are turned up a little and indistinctly notched on the edges ; the 

 main part of the arch is free and very prominent. When the cover 

 glass of the microscopic slide is pressed down upon the radula the 

 pillars of the arch break away from the cusp at their junction, 

 which led Poirier to regard them as a separate series of lateral 

 teeth on each side, and Fischer, not noticing Troschel's explanation 

 of this part of one of his figures, has been led into the same error in 

 regard to the analogous radula of Volutomitra. Poirier took the 

 notched bases of the broken off lateral portions of the single tooth 

 as the distal ends or cusps of his supposed laterals, directly revers- 

 ing their true position. There is only a single row of teeth. 



The position of Halia is unquestionably among the Volutacea. 

 The radula of Scaphella Tumeri as figured by Gray, is almost iden- 

 tical, and that of Volutomitra gronlandica is closely similar. Halia 

 wants the siphonal appendage of the typical Volutes and so does 

 Volutomitra. Both Scaphella and Volutomitra are without oper- 

 cula, like Halia. The external form of the foot and head is essen- 

 tially similar in all three. The texture of the shell of Halia, and 

 also its color and color-pattern, are essentially identical with those 

 of Scaphella (Aurinia) dubia Brod., which has the pillar and plaits 

 degenerate. The process of degeneration, aided by the more ample 

 whorls of Halia, has completed the effacement of the plaits and the 

 enfeeblement of the pillar or central axis of the shell. The speci- 

 men of Halia at my disposal for study is somewhat worn at the 

 apex, but the form of the nucleus indicates that, like Scaphella and 

 Volutomitra, its nepionic shell was membranous, and has left a rough 

 scar on the surface of the initial shelly coil, a view confirmed by 

 Cossmann's figure of the nucleus of a fossil species. In Aurinia 

 the degenerate radula is edentulous, but the type, which began in 

 the Eocene, and has retained its color pattern and general charac- 

 ters ever since, is abundant in the Pliocene, and may readily have 

 thrown off the aberrant Halia at that period from which it is 

 known to date. 



Halia was erected into a family by Kobelt, but it can hardly be 

 said to possess family characteristics, its essential features being 




192 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



negative and due to degeneration from the normal type of the group 

 to which it belongs. The characters of the latter, however, fully 

 justify us in separating, from the operculate Volutidce with their 

 calcareous nepionic shell and Buccinoid dentition, the family 

 Scaphellidce, destitute of an operculum, with a membranous nepionic 

 shell and the peculiar dentition above described. This latter group 

 will include Caricella, Scaphella, Cymbiola, Eopsephcea, Aurinia, 

 Halia, Volutomitra and their allies. 



The recent Halia has been dredged along the eastern margin of 

 the Atlantic from the Bay of Biscay to Senegal. The genus is re- 

 presented in the Pliocene of Italy by one or two forms which have 

 received distinct specific names. The type was first named by 

 Meuschen in the Museum Gronovianum in 1778, and was erected 

 into a separate genus by Risso in 1826. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW TETHYS (APLYSIA). 

 BY E. J. LETSON. 

 Tethys Pilsbryi n. sp. Plate VIII. 



Length 11 £ cm., body elongated, flabby, plump, enlarged behind. 

 Mouth encircled by wide lips and large buccal appendages. Rhino- 

 phores (posterior tentacles,) stout, short conic, slit at the extremities ; 

 eyes small, black, placed before the rhinophores. Anterior ends of 

 pleuropodial lobes well separated, posterior ends joined behind, 

 mantle large, median perforation very small, surrounded by radial 

 striae (visible only under a lens). Right margin of mantle, folded 

 over about half its width, and largely adnate ; posteriorly not 

 forming an excurrent siphon ; gill considerably exposed. Genital 

 opening under forward right border of mantle, surmounted by a 

 fleshy prominence. Opening of opaline gland large, single, about 

 13 mill, back of the genital pore, and well under the gill. Gills 

 foliated in regular branches. External integument smooth; with a 

 few inconspicuous scattered warts ; olive colored, with some cloud- 

 ing of black on the reflexed mantle and sometimes also near the 

 tail ; shell normal. 



Silam, North Coast of Yucatan, (Heilprin). 



This differs from all other known species in having the mantle 

 folded back upon itself and adnate except near the edge. 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



A NEW GRASSHOPPER MOUSE FROM NEW MEXICO. 

 BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS. 



Among the ten species and races of short-tailed mice of the genus 

 Onychomys known to inhabit the United States we find a surpris- 

 ingly small amount of color variation, or of difference in size and 

 external proportions, from the type of the genus, 0. leucog aster, from 

 Dakota. The short, nearly unicolor, blunt tail, rounded, microtine 

 ears, dense, silky pelage and buff)'- gray colors are more or less char- 

 acteristic of all the species ranging from the Saskatchewan to the 

 Mexican boundary. 



A careful study of their cranial characters is thus necessary in 

 determining their relationships. 



A specimen of Onychomys in superficial appearance almost identi- 

 cal with leucogaster, was recently forwarded to the writer from Me- 

 silla, Dona Ana Co., New Mexico, by Mr. T. D. A. Cockerel!, for 

 identification. Four specimens of Onychomys from Clapham, Union 

 Co., New Mexico, prove to be identical with the Mesilla specimen 

 and on comparison with their nearest geographical allies, leucogas- 

 ter, brevicaudus and longipes prove to belong to a distinct and un- 

 described species. It may be known by the following diagnosis : — 



Onychomys arcticeps sp. nov. Long-Nosed Grasshopper Mouse. 



"Onychomys leucogaster subsp.?"; Allen, Bull. Araer. Mus. N. H., 1893, 

 p. 74. ''Onychomys leucogaster brevicauda" ; Allen, ibid, 1896, p. 253. 



Type No. 1,529, ad. $ , col. of S. N. Rhoads, taken by E. E. 

 Thompson at Clapham, Union Co., New Mexico, Nov. 7th, 1893. 



General characters. — About the size of leucogaster, with slightly 

 longer tail and ears, deeper fulvous (less gray) coloration above, 

 narrower cranium, and long, slender rostrum. 



Color. — Above uniform ochraceous buff, 1 heavily lined with black- 

 ish, lightest along sides, blackest on top of head and around eyes. 

 A blackish oval spot on upper, outer margins of ears. Tail white, 

 with an ill-defined, narrow stripe of blackish-buff on superior prox- 

 imal two-thirds. Color of sides at the white margin and on lower 

 rump and thighs deeper ochraceous buff. Lower parts tawny white 

 as contrasted with the clear, pure white of leucogaster. 



1 Ridgway's Nomen. of Colors, PI. V, No. 10. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



Cranial characters. — Skull viewed from above (contrasted with 

 leucogaster), long and narrow, the brain case high, compressed, 

 elongate, ovate; the rostrum much narrowed and the nasals slender 

 and projecting decidedly beyond the anterior tips of the premaxil- 

 laries. No distinct supraorbital bead as contrasted with longipes 

 from Texas. Palate ending posteriorly with a convex edge as in 

 torridus, as contrasted with the strongly developed median spine of 

 leucogaster. 



Measurements (of type). — Total length 150 mm. ; tail vertebrse, 

 45; hind foot, 21; ear, from crown (dry), 11. Average of four 

 topotypes, iu same order as above : 152 — 46 — 22. Skull : total 

 length, 28.6 ; nasal length, 11.3; zygomatic expansion; 14.7; mas- 

 toid expansion, 12; interorbital constriction, 4.7 ; length of mandi- 

 ble 15.3. 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



NOTES ON THE FOSSIL WALRUS OF EASTERN NORTH AMERICA. 

 BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS. 



In the eleventh volume of the Transactions of the American 

 Philosophical Society, 1 Dr. Joseph Leidy describes and figures two 

 specimens of fossil walrus obtained on the coast of New Jersey, and 

 discusses the relationships of the recent and fossil forms of Atlantic 

 walrus. In his opinion there is no foundation for a distinction be- 

 tween the existing species and the so-called Trichechus virginianus 

 of DeKay, 2 based on a fossil walrus skull from Accomac County, 

 Virginia. 



In the eighth volume of the Journal of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, published twenty years subsequent to his 

 paper in the Transactions of the Philosophical Society above re- 

 ferred to, Dr. Leidy describes a walrus tusk from the phosphate 

 beds of Ashley River, South Carolina. This specimen he compares 

 with the tusks of a large skull in the museum of the Academy from 

 Nova Scotia, and concludes that the characters of the South Caro- 

 lina specimen are not of sufficient value to determine whether it per- 

 tained to a species distinct from the living one. The specimen from 

 Nova Scotia, thus casually referred to by Dr. Leidy, is yet in the 

 museum of the Academy, and is by far the most complete fossilized 

 cranium of an adult animal of which we have any record. 



Before passing to a further consideration of the specimens de- 

 scribed by Leidy, it should be stated that Dr. J. A. Allen, in his Me- 

 moir of the Pinnipeds 3 also records 4 a skeleton of a fossil walrus 

 " with tusks over five inches long " in the quaternary clays of Port- 

 land, Maine. Dr. Allen does not seem to have examined any fossil 

 specimens of walrus, nor does he venture an opinion as to the 

 specific value of the so-called fossil species. From his full quota- 

 tions of Leidy, however, it is evident that Dr. Allen was inclined to 

 coincide with the determinations of so eminent an authority. 



1 New Series, pp. 83-86, pi. 4, and 5. 



2 Nat. Hist. N. York, Zool., I, p. 56, pi. 19, fig. 1, a, b. 

 3 U. S. Geol. Surv., Misc. Pub , XII, 1880. 



4 See also Amer. Nat., Sept., 1878, p. 633. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



With the specimen from Nova Scotia above alluded to is a mem- 

 orandum, evidently penned by the sender and donor of the specimen. 

 It reads : — " Office of School Commissioners, 48 George Street [Hal- 

 ifax], 187[1]. Skull of a walrus (Trichecus rosmarus) Sable 

 Island, Nova Scotia. The walrus is now extinct in Nova Scotia. 

 It was last seen alive on Sable Island sand beaches. There must 

 have been a considerable number on the island, as a great many of 

 their skulls have been thrown up on the beaches at intervals after 

 heavy gales. The specimen sent was found some two years since, 

 and as none have been found since then, I am inclined to think it 

 the last of the series. You will observe that the tusks are partly 

 fossilized. — J. R. W[illis]." This specimen is recorded in the Pro- 

 ceedings of the Academy for 1871, and classified among recent ver- 

 tebrate material. This fact and the tenor of Dr. Leidy's remarks 

 regarding it show that he did not consider it a fossil. This is re- 

 markable, as the specimen is of precisely the same nature in color, 

 texture and specific gravity as the larger fossil specimen which 

 Leid} r described and figured in the Philosophical Transactions, and 

 which came from the beach at Long Branch, New Jersey. Un- 

 doubtedly the Sable Island specimen is of the same age and deriva- 

 tion from an ancient raised sea beach stratum as were the two speci- 

 mens obtained on the shores of New Jersey, the skeleton from the 

 quaternary clays of Portland, Maine, and the type of DeKay's 

 Trichechus virginianus from the sea beach of Accomac County, Vir- 

 ginia. For this reason all of these fossil specimens are taken in the 

 following study as typical of the supposed fossil species of Atlantic 

 walrus as compared with the animal now existing on our North 

 Atlantic Coasts of America. 



Of the four fossil specimens mentioned, three are now in the cus- 

 tody of the Academy of Natural Sciences, the one from Sable Island 

 and the more perfect of the two New Jersey specimens figured by 

 Dr. Leidy, being the property of the Academy. The third specimen 

 is the anterior half of the cranium from Long Branch, loaned to 

 Dr. Leidy by Prof. Geo. Cook, and figured in the Transactions of the 

 Philosophical Society. It was recently purchased from Prof. Ward 

 of Rochester, N. Y., by the New Jersey Geological Survey for its 

 museum at Trenton, and through the courtesy of Prof. J.C. Smock, 

 was loaned to Mr. Lewis Woolman, of Philadelphia, for use in this 

 connection. It is to the efforts of Mr. Woolman and his scientific 

 interest in the work of the Survey, as well as his devotion to original 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



research in the Academy of Natural Sciences that the facts con- 

 tained in this paper are now made accessible. Mr. Woolman's at- 

 tempt to locate DeKay's type of T. virginianus resulted in the dis- 

 covery that this specimen was destroyed by fire with the other ob- 

 jects of natural history in the museum of the old New York Lyceum 

 of Natural History, now known as the New York Academy of Sci- 

 ences. 



The loss of this specimen, together with the inadequate descrip- 

 tion of its characters and the crude nature of DeKay's figure of it 

 make the use of the name virginianus for an extinct species of wal- 

 rus questionable, even in the event of proof that the other fossil speci- 

 mens represent a different species from that now existing. However 

 if the characters of these latter can be shown to indicate such a state 

 of affairs and at the same time show no radical differences from what 

 we know of the type of virginianus, it is eminently proper that that 

 name should be applied to them, and the extinct walrus of the 

 glacial period be so distinguished from Rosmarus rosmarus. 



As Leidy has already shown, DeKay's brief diagnosis of virgin- 

 ianus 5 is equally applicable to Rosmarus rosmarus, and had he not 

 figured the specimen, we would now, on account of the loss of the 

 type, be forced to make virginianas a probable synonym of rosmarus. 

 The fact, however, that the type was a fossil and was figured, and 

 that it, in all probability, represented the same species as the fossil 

 skulls from New Jersey and Sable Island, makes the name as tena- 

 ble as ever for a possible species of fossil walrus. 



The characters of all the fossil specimens show conclusively their 

 closer affinity to rosmarus than to obesus of the Pacific Ocean, ex- 

 cept in the relative size of the molars. In this respect they ap- 

 proach more nearly the Pacific species as represented in the skull 

 of an old male from Alaska, in which the molars are very large and 

 rounded. The canine tusks of the fossil specimens are characteris- 

 tic of the rather short, heavy, decurved and spreading form seen in 

 rosmarus. In respect of the ratio of the extreme facial width across 

 the maxillaries to the greatest occipital width, it is noticeable that 

 the fossil specimens come much nearer to obesus, in which the differ- 

 ences between these dimensions are much less than in rosmarus. In 

 the fossil specimen from Nova Scotia the maxillary expansion is 

 203 mm., and the paroccipital expansion (adding 10 mm. for wear) 



5 It reads: "Cheek teeth with obliquely truncate crowns, not ridged; the 

 second smaller than the first." 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



is 278 mm. In a very old male specimen of obesus from Alaska 

 these measurements are respectively 220 mm. and 295 mm. In a 

 somewhat younger but adult west Greenland specimen of rosmarus 

 these dimensions are 195 mm. and 295 mm. Viewed anteriorly, 

 the facial outline of the fossil specimens, especially in the oldest 

 New Jersey example, shows affinity with the rosmarus type in the 

 relatively greater ratio of width to height, and in the Sable Island 

 skull the median projection of the premaxillaries extends consider- 

 ably beyond the anterior plane of the maxillaries into a blunt, beak- 

 like process. 



In the very old recent Alaskan specimen the premaxillaries are 

 on a plane with the maxillaries at this point, and their median su- 

 ture recedes behind them at its anteroinferior border in a sort of 

 hare-lip conformation. 



The three fossil specimens are remarkable for the great relative 

 size of the nasal bones. The New Jersey specimen now belonging 

 to the Geological Survey of that State is much wider across the 

 maxillaries than the widest recent or fossil walrus skull in the cus- 

 tody of the Academy, and is from a very old individual. While 

 we would expect a corresponding width of the nasal bones, these 

 are, nevertheless, correspondingly long, also, presenting an area 

 nearly twice as great as in the largest recent walrus skulls in the 

 collection. The smaller New Jersey specimen, belonging to the 

 Academy, also has a correspondingly large nasal area. The nasal 

 sutures in the process of fossilization become sufficiently well-defined, 

 even in the oldest specimens, to determine their area. In the larger 

 New Jersey specimen the greatest nasal length is 98 mm., and the 

 greatest width 80 mm. In the smaller one these dimensions are 96 

 mm. and 81 mm. In the largest Greenland specimen they are 72 

 mm. and 65 mm., and in the largest Alaskan specimen 72 mm. and 

 64 mm. 



Turning now to the upper maxillary dentition, a comparison be- 

 tween the fossil and recent specimens of aged individuals shows the 

 following marked differences in the permanent teeth. 6 



In recent rosmarus of nearly the same size as the smaller New 

 Jersey fossil specimen and 25 mm. shorter in basilar length than the 

 Nova Scotia fossil, all the grinding teeth average about one-half 

 the dimensions of the fossil specimens, and making allowance for 



6 I adopt the dental formula of Dr. Allen's Monograph of the Pinnipeds, 

 page 57. 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



the difference in age they are more than one-third smaller. In the 

 fossil specimens the permanent incisor exceeds the grinders both in 

 triturating area and in alveolar depth and calibre. In rosmarus 

 and obesus this tooth is much smaller than — . The posterior molar 

 ("id!) in the fossil skulls (excepting the one belonging to the New 

 Jersey Geological Survey), 7 is a deeply rooted tooth of nearly the 

 same calibre and triturating area as n ^ 2 . In both rosmarus and 

 obesus it is the smallest and shallowest rooted of the permanent den- 

 tition and is sometimes wanting in aged specimens. 



Another marked character which is peculiar to the two fossil 

 specimens belonging to the collection of the Academy, and in some 

 degree to the specimen of the Geological Survey, is the remarkable 

 median depression of the maxillae at the incisive foramina, and the 

 constriction of tlie inter-incisor space. In the Sable Island example 

 the depth of the incisive foramina below the crown of °^i is 64 mm. 

 and the distance between the alveoli of the permanent incisors is 

 only 17 mm. In the Long Branch skull it is about the same. In 

 the recent Greenland specimen these measurements are 41 mm. and 

 30 mm., and in the Alaskan specimen 50 mm. and 30 mm. 



While the foregoing comparisons were made with an amount of 

 material far more comprehensive than that accessible to Dr. Leidy, 

 and supplemented by the valuable diagnoses, figures and tables of 

 measurements given by Dr. J. A. Allen, the author regrets that a 

 larger series of adult crania of our living species of walrus was 

 not available. Premising, however, that the recent skulls used in 

 this comparison are typical in essential characters of rosmarus and 

 obesus, and that the fossil skulls, including the type of virginianus, 

 all represent a period of Pleistocene Age, the writer concludes that 

 the weight of evidence favors the separation of the fossil and recent 

 species of Atlantic walrus under the following diagnoses: 



Rosmarus rosmarus (Linnasus). Recent Atlantic Walrus. 



Phoca rosmarus Linnreus ; Syst. Nat., 1758, p. 38. 

 Rosmarus rosmarus Rhoads; Airier. Nat., 1894, p. 523. 



Characters. — Ratio of greatest anterior maxillary width to the 

 paroccipital expansion, as 2 to 3 ; permanent upper incisor much 

 smaller than — ; — 3 smallest, shallow-rooted, in old adults some- 

 times absent; superior grinders relatively weak, the opposing rows 

 separated by a wide incisive diastema twice the width of the largest 



7 In this the posterior molars have fallen out, the alveoli showing them to 

 have been of large calibre but quite shallow. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



molar ; roof of mouth gently, evenly rounded, shallow between the 

 grinders ; incisive foramina small, not indented, their distance be- 

 low the alveolus of Hii only equalling the distance between the two 

 opposing permanent incisors; nasals small, short, rectangular. 



Rosmarus virginianus (DeKay). Fossil Atlantic Walrus. 



Trichechns virginianus DeKay; Nat. Hist. N. York, I, p. 56, pi. 19, fig. 1, 

 a, b. 



Characters. — Ratio of greatest anterior maxillary width to par- 

 occipital expansion, as 2 to 2f ; permanent upper incisor as large as 

 — ; — 3 larger than 5^1, nearly as large as permanent incisor, deeply 

 rooted, persistent; superior grinders massive, crowded, the opposing 

 rows separated by a narrow incisive diastema about as wide as the 

 largest molar : root of mouth deeply furrowed between the grinders ; 

 incisive foramina large, acutely indented ; their depth below the 

 alveolus of ^ being twice as great as the space between the two 

 opposing permanent incisors : nasals large, relatively long, becom- 

 ing much wider anteriorly. 



It should be understood that the above diagnosis of the fossil wal- 

 rus rests chiefly on the Sable Island specimen, and the finer skull 

 belonging to the Academy from New Jersey which Leidy figured 

 on plates 4 and 5 of volume XI of the Philosophical Transactions. 

 Both these skulls evidently belonged to very old males. In some 

 respects, as in the relative sizes of the teeth to each other, the other 

 New Jersey specimen and the plate of DeKay's virginianus agree in 

 their closer approach to the existing walrus. Owing to their frag- 

 mentary condition, as compared with the Sable Island and Long 

 Branch specimen, and the fact that the latter two agree exactly in 

 all the characters enumerated, it is best to consider these as typical 

 of the fossil animal. As DeKay's type is destroyed and his diagno- 

 sis and plate of little value, I would recommend that if the charac- 

 ters pointed out in this paper as distinguishing the fossil from the 

 recent Atlantic walrus are sufficiently confirmed by other speci- 

 mens to warrant their separation, that DeKay's name be retained. 

 The evidence in favor of DeKay's fossil being the same as rosmarus 

 and the other fossil specimens a distinct species, to which the name 

 virginianus cannot apply, is too flimsy to merit attention. 



14 




202 proceedings of the academy of [1898. 



April 5. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Seventeen persons present. 

 The death of Oliver A. Judson, M. D., a member, was announced. 



April 12. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-six persons present. 



Prof. Pilsbry made a communication on the natural history 

 of slugs. (No abstract.) 



April 19. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Nineteen persons present. 



The Function of the Radula. — Mr. H. A. Pilsbry spoke of a 

 radula of the gastropod Nerlta peloronta exhibited by Mr. Keely, 

 mentioning its great length compared to that of the animal, and the 

 large number of similar teeth at the margins. The modifications 

 found by Fischer in the radula of Neritopsis and by the speaker in 

 that of Orthomesus and the Helicidre indicate that specialization in 

 the Rhipidoglossa and Pulmonata has proceded from the median 

 line of the radula outward, the outer teeth being the last to be 

 modified, and therefore of value as indicating the ancestral con- 

 dition ; this mode of modification being probably the result of the 

 greater functional activity of the median portion in feeding, due to 

 the rounded shape of the subradular cartilage. 



Mr. Calvert stated that the position of the radula in squids 

 recently dissected by him seemed to preclude the use of that organ 

 as a rasp, as described for snails. 



Mr. Pilsbry replied that he had not observed any cephalopod 

 feeding, but supposed that the radula here acted as an aid to 

 deglutition, crowding the fragments, taken in the beak, down the 

 oesophagus. 



Dr. Chapman observed that he had often observed squids eating 

 fish, and the beaks alone were used to bite the prey. He further 

 alluded to the impossibility of keeping squids in aquaria owing to 

 their incessant activity. They constantly dart against the glass 

 and soon die from the mutilation ensuing. 




1898.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 203 



April 26. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Twenty-six persons present. 



A paper entitled " Materials toward a Natural Classification of 

 the Cylindrelloid Snails," by Henry A. Pilsbry and E. G. Vanatta, 

 was presented for publication. 



Rock Inscriptions in Kauai, Hawaiian Islands. — Dr. Benja- 

 min Sharp exhibited a specimen of coquina received from Mr. J. 

 K. Farley of Kauai. He had visited Mr. Farley in 1893 with the 

 hope of seeing some rock inscriptions usually covered with sand. 

 An effort to uncover the rocks and expose the inscriptions had 

 then been unsuccessful, although the bed rock had been reached at 

 a depth of six feet. The following letter, accompanied by draw- 

 ings of the inscriptions, has recently been received : — 



Koloa, Kauai, Hawaiian Islands, July 13th, 1897. 

 Dr. Benj. Sharp, 



Dear Sir: — When you were here in October, 1893, I promised 

 you that I would send you any new information that I might obtain 

 regarding the figures cut into the sandstone 1 ledge at Keoneloa, also 

 diagrams of them if I ever saw them again. 



On June 15th a native fisherman told me that the drawings were 

 exposed to view at low tide. I went to Keoneloa June 16th, 17th, 

 18th, 19th and 21st, and send you herewith, in another package, 

 the result of the visits. On the last date I could do nothing but 

 try cutting the rock with a hatchet and an old native stone adze, 

 as a high surf was fast covering the ledge again with sand. 



With a hatchet one could, I think, make a four foot figure in 

 about two hours, steady work ; with the adze it would take at least 

 six times as long, and use up a number of such tools. Most of the 

 figures look as if they had been cut with a semi-pointed implement 

 like a rounded cold chisel. With the corner of the stone adze I was 

 able to make about the same kind of a cut. A whirling motion 

 that I noticed the waves as they ran off the rock gave to the sand, 

 lodged it in the cuts and this may have worn the cutting into the 

 sort of rounded pockets noticed. 



I had a talk, June 17th, with an old native woman named 

 Kauila, who has lived near Keoneloa for many years. She said : — 

 " I first saw the pictures when I was about thirteen years old (that 

 was in 1848). I went to see them with my school-teacher and his 

 other scholars and two Roman Catholic priests. My teacher's 

 name was Alexandro, a Frenchman. He was the first Roman 



1 The rock is coquina, not sandstone. 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Catholic priest in Koloa and built the Roman Catholic Mission 

 buildings. We saw all the picture rocks exposed ; you have only 

 seen a part of them to-day. The priest went home with me from 

 Keoneloa and talked with my father, Walewale, and with my grand- 

 father, and also with a number of other old natives (in those days 

 there were many old people in the land) about the drawings. They 

 had all seen the pictures but had never heard who cut them, or why 

 they were done. The oldest folks said that their fathers and grand- 

 fathers had told them that the pictures had always been there." 



The sand-hills to the west of Keoneloa are said to have been old 

 battle-fields. They were certainly used as burial grounds as we 

 know. 2 



Fugitives from the Oahu wars are said to have landed at Keone- 

 loa and to have been killed and buried in these sand-hills by Koloa 

 natives. 



Alexander, in his " Brief History of the Hawaiian People," Chap. 

 15, says "About the end of the 13th century, Kalaunuiohua, a war- 

 like and ambitious Moi (King) of Hawaii, undertook to subdue the 

 whole group ... he defeated the leading chiefs of Maui, Molo- 

 kai and Oahu. ... he set sail for Kauai . . . and landed near 

 Koloa, where he was met by Kukona, at the head of the warriors of 

 Kauai, and was totally defeated, his fleet being taken, his army de- 

 stroyed. It was about this time that a vessel called 'Mamala' in 

 the tradition, arrived at Kahului, in Maui. The captain and crew 

 are said to have been foreigners of light complexion, with bright 

 eyes, who intermarried with the natives and became progenitors of 

 a light colored stock. As there were no Europeans in the Pacific 

 Ocean in the 13th century, it is most probable, as Judge Fornander 

 has suggested, that these foreigners were the crew of some Japanese 

 iunk, driven out of its course by a typhoon, and drifted to these 

 shores, as has twice happened in recent times. Also, about the year 

 1527-28, Spaniards, a man and his sister, were saved from a wreck 

 on Hawaii . . . they intermarried with the natives and became 

 the progenitors of certain well-known families of chiefs, such as that 

 of Kaikeowa, former Governor of Kauai." 



Jarvis, in his history of the islands, says, " Cook found in the 

 possession of the natives of Kauai two pieces of irou, one a portion 

 of a hoop, and the other appeared to be part of the blade of a broad- 

 sword." " The knowledge and use of iron was generally known." 



Kauila's story would take us back to the early part of the 17th 

 century, without a tradition of the workers. 



The cross and the flag (?) 3 make me think that foreigners may 

 have had a hand in the work, or may have given the natives, if 

 they did the work, a knowledge of those emblems. Were it not for 

 them one might think that the pictures were done by a party of 



1 We obtained, when with Mr. Farley, a number of bones and one complete 

 skeleton. 



3 Referring to the drawing sent with the letter. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



North-west Indians, who could, I believe, easily, in their large 

 canoes, sail or drift down to the islands with the currents, in a 

 shorter time than a Japanese junk could. One can usually see 

 half a dozen N. W. drift logs on the beach at Keoneloa. On the 

 beaches of Niihau, some fifty miles away, hundreds of logs and 

 Red Wood posts have been picked up a few months after freshets 

 on the Pacific coast of the U. S. and B. C, had washed out the 

 logging dams of the saw mills. 



The last figure on my diagram, I take it, was made to represent 

 a woman in parturition. 



P. S. Since writing the foregoing, I have seen Dr. Emerson of 

 this place. He tells me that eight or nine years ago, he saw on the 

 beach at Houaunau, Kona, Hawaii, somewhat similar drawings, 

 cut into lava rock. Honaunau is not far from Keei, the place at 

 which the Spanish man and woman are said to have lauded in 

 about 1527-28. The natives of Hawaii know nothing of the 

 workers. Dr. Emerson says: Kackeoewa came from a Hawaiian 

 family. My "cross" may be a totem. 



Mr. Wm. W. Jefferis was appointed Curator of the William S. 

 Vaux Collections for the current year. 



The following were appointed the Committee on the Hayden 

 Memorial Award for 1898 : — Messrs Persifor Frazer, Angelo 

 Heilprin, Theodore D. Rand, Benjamin Smith Lyman, and Jos. P. 

 Lesley. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



BIRDS OBSERVED IN CENTRAL CALIFORNIA IN THE SUMMER OF 1893. 



BY JOHN VANDENBURGH. 



It was my good fortune in the summer of 1893 to be one of a 

 party of five who, during the weeks from June 21st to July 27th, 

 fairly lived in the saddle, riding nearly eight hundred miles through 

 the Coast Range, interior valleys and Sierra Nevada of California. 

 The other members of the party were Dr. Charles H. Gilbert, Dr. 

 W. W. Thoburn and Professor C. B. Wing of Leland Stanford 

 Junior University, and the Rev. Mr. Briggs, then of San Francisco. 



The main object of the expedition was the gathering of material 

 which would throw light upon certain problems connected with the 

 fish fauna of the streams in the vicinity of Mt. Whitney, but all 

 forms of vertebrate life received more or less attention. My time 

 was devoted chiefly to the birds and reptiles, the latter, perhaps, 

 receiving the major share. Owing to the rapid rate at which it was 

 necessary to travel, opportunities for collecting were not of the best, 

 but the ornithological observations made, are presented in the hope 

 that they may be of interest from the fact that most of the birds 

 were in their breeding ranges and, in many instances, in localities 

 seldom visited by the ornithologist. 



Our route lay in Santa Clara County from Los Gatos and Palo 

 Alto to Saratoga, and thence to Boulder Creek in Santa Cruz 

 County ; June 21st, Santa Cruz ; June 22d, Soquel, Aptos and Wat- 

 sonville ; June 23d, San Juan, Hollister and Tres Pinos ; June 24th, 

 up the valley of the San Benito River to San Benito, Hernandez, 

 Hepsadan Mountain and Erie ; June 26-29, across a divide to the 

 Los Gatos Creek, June 29th, and then down this stream and through 

 Pleasant Valley to Huron, June 80th. From Huron we crossed 

 the San Joaquin Valley, by way of Lemoore, Armona and Hanford, 

 to Visalia, July 1-od. From Visalia we went to Three Rivers and 

 then up the east fork of the Kaweak River to Cain's Flat. Weishar 

 Mill and Mineral King, July 4-6th. Crossing Farewell Gap, we 

 spent a day in Shotgun Canon close to Little Kern River, and then 

 went on to Trout Meadows and the south fork of Kern River, reach- 

 ing Little Kern River Lake July 12th and Soda Springs or Big 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



Kern River Lake one day later. Our trail then lead us up Whitney 

 Creek to its headwaters, across to Cottonwood Creek and thus down 

 to Owen's Lake and Lone Pine, July 14-1 6th. From Lone Pine 

 we returned to San Francisco byway of Independence (July 17th), 

 Big Pine (July 18th), Round Valley (July 19th), McGee's (July 

 20th), Troy's near Mono Lake (July 21st), Mono Pass and Dana 

 Creek (July 22d), Yosemite Valley (July 23d), Crocker's (July 

 24th), Buena Vista (July 25th), and Stockton (July 26th). 



1. Colymbus nigricollis californicus. Eared Grebe. 



The Eared Grebe was seen only in Owen's Valley, where a single 

 pair were feeding in a small lake near Lone Pine, July 16, 1893. 



2. Podilymbus podiceps. Pied-billed Grebe. 



A pair of this species inhabited a pond near Watsonville, where 

 we camped, June 23d. 



3. Ardea herodias. Great Blue Heron. 



This heron was observed at Watsonville, June 23d. It was com- 

 mon along the San Benito River, June 29th, and several were hunt- 

 ing in the alfalfa fields of Pleasant Valley, June 30th. 



4. Ardea virescens. Green Heron. 



The Green Heron was not uncommon along the San Benito River 

 from Tres Pinos to San Benito, June 24-27th. One was observed 

 on the east fork of the Kaweah River, July 5th. 



5. Fulica americana. American Coot. 



Two Coots were playing in Little Kern River Lake early in the 

 morning of July 13th. In Owen's Valley a number were seen on a 

 small lake near Lone Pine, July 16th. 



6. Actitis macularia. Spotted Sandpiper. 



This loud voiced wader was seen at Kern River Lake, July 13th 

 and 14th. 



7. iEgialitis vocifera. Killdeer. 



The Killdeer was observed near Watsonville, June 24th ; at Tres 

 Pinos, where it was very abundant along the San Benito Creek, 

 June 25th, and along the Los Gatos Creek and in Pleasant Valley, 

 June 30th. In the San Joaquin Valley, this bird was the almost 

 constant accompaniment of water, July 1— 4th. In Owen's Valley, 

 many were seen along the streams and irrigation ditches between 

 Lone Pine and Bishop, July 16-1 9th. 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



8. Oreortyx pictus plumiferus. Plumed Partridge. 



A large covey was observed near Mineral King, July 7th. Sev- 

 eral were seen near Shotgun Canon, July 11th, and a pair with half 

 grown young were flushed between Trout Meadows and Kern 

 River Lakes, July 12th. A single adult male was seen at Crock- 

 er's, July 25th. 



9. Callipepla californica. California Quail. 



This quail was heard constantly between Saratoga and Boulder, 

 June 21st. 



10. Callipepla californica vallicola. Valley Quail. 



Valley Quail were very abundant along the east fork of the 

 Kaweak River, July 4-5tk. 



11. Dendragapus obscurus fuliginosus. Sooty Grouse. 



The Sooty Grouse was well represented at an altitude of about 

 8,000 feet near Mineral King. Here they were heard at all times 

 of the day, and a female was seen with her covey of young, then 

 about the size of Valley Quail, July 7th. Several were observed 

 by Dr. Gilbert at the head of Shotgun Canon, July 10th. 



12. Zenaidura macroura. Mourning Dove. 



This species was first observed at Watsonville, where it was com- 

 mon in the grain fields. After leaving Watsonville, it was with us 

 constantly to San Juan, Hollister, Tres Pinos, up the valley of San 

 Benito Creek, across into that of the Los Gatos, thence down Pleas- 

 ant Valley to Huron, across the San Joaquin Valley to Visalia, 

 and up the east fork of the Kaweak River to Cain's Flat, at the 

 lower limit of pines, June 24th, July 5th. Doves were very abund- 

 ant in Owen's Valley, from Lone Pine to Bishop, July 16th— 19th. 



13. Pseudogryphus californianus. California Vulture. 



A single individual of this species was seen sitting on a fence- 

 post near the road between Big Pine and Bishop Creek in Owen's 

 Valley, July 19th. 



14. Cathartes aura. Turkey Vulture. 



Buzzards were noted at Aptos, Watsonville, San Juan, Hollister, 

 Tres Pinos, San Benito, Hernandez, Visalia, Three Rivers and 

 Cain's Flat. East of the Sierra Nevada several were seen in 

 Owen's Valley, and a dead one w r as found in Long Valley. 



15. Circus hudsonius. Marsh Hawk. 



A hawk of this species was seen near Big Pine, Owen's Valley, 

 July 19th. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



16. Accipiter velox. Sharp-shinned Hawk (?). 



A bird thought to be of this species was seen near San Benito, 

 June 27th. 



17. Buteo borealis calurus. Western Red-tailed Hawk. 



Several Western Red-tails were sailing high in the air near 

 Aptos, June 23d. The species was next seen at Tres Pinos, June 

 26th, but was not again observed until the party reached Dana 

 Creek, above the Yosemite Valley, where one was shot July 23d. 



18. Aquila chrysaetos. Golden Eagle. 



The only eagle seen flew from the ground near an irrigation ditch 

 to a large oak, near Visalia, July 3d. 



19. Falco sparverins deserticolus. Desert Sparrow Hawk. 



This species was first met at Soquel, where a single individual 

 was seen June 23d. Others were observed near San Juan and Tres 

 Pinos, June 24th. On June 27th one was seen near San Benito, 

 feeding four young which had recently left the nest. 



20. Glaucidum glioma californicum. California Pigmy Owl. 



A Pigmy Owl was brought to me at Boulder by some boys who 

 had shot it as it flew about their camp among the redwoods at noon 

 June 22d. 



21. Speotyto cunicularia hypogaea. Burrowing Owl. 



A number of Burrowing Owls were seen near San Juan, June 

 24th. In Pleasant Valley and between there and Huron this spe- 

 cies was very common, and often whole families of them could be 

 seen on or near the mounds which contained their nesting burrows. 

 June 30th, several were seen at various points in the San Joaquin 

 Valley. 



22. Geococcyx californianus. Road-runner. 



A Road-runner shot by Dr. Thoburn near Big Pine, July 18th, 

 was the only one observed. 



23. Ceryle alcyon. Belted Kingfisher. 



One Kingfisher was seen near Tres Pinos, June 26th. 



24. Dryobates pubescens gairdnerii. Gairdner's Woodpecker. 



This Woodpecker was very abundant along the San Benito 

 Creek, June 25th to 28th. 



25. Dryobates nuttallii. Nuttall's Woodpecker. 



Nuttall's Woodpecker was observed only on the east fork of the 

 Kaweah River near Cain's Flat, July 5th. 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



26. Xenopicus albolarvatus. White-headed Woodpecker. 



The White-headed Woodpecker was very common among the 

 pines between Weishar Mill and Mineral King, July 7th. 



27. Sphyrapicus ruber. Red-breasted Sapsucker. 



Several " Red-headed Woodpeckers " were busy in the pines at 

 Kern River Lakes, July 13th. 



28. Sphyrapicus thyroideus. Williamson's Sapsucker. 



This bird was quite common among the pines and sequoias near 

 Weishar Mill, July 7th. Several were seen near Kern River 

 Lakes, July 12th to 14th. 



29. Ceophloeus pileatus. Pileated Woodpecker. 



A bird of this species was noted at Weishar Mill, July 6th. 



30. Melanerpes formioivorus bairdi. California Woodpecker. 



This showy bird was usually seen in flocks of from three to a 

 dozen individuals. It was noted among the redwoods at Boulder, 

 June 21st, and in the oaks near Watsonville, San Juan, Tres Pinos 

 and San Benito, June 23d to 27th. In the San Joaquin Valley it 

 was common — particularly so near Visalia, July 3d — but ascended 

 the east fork of the Kaweah only to Cain's Flat. 



31. Melanerpes torquatus. Lewis' Woodpecker. 



Many Lewis' Woodpeckers were circling in the air along San 

 Benito Creek between Tres Pinos and Hepsadan Mt., June 25th- 

 29th. 



32. Colaptes cafer. Red-shafted Flicker. 



A Flicker was noted at Watsonville, June 23d ; another was 

 seen near San Juan, June 24th, and several were observed in San 

 Benito Valley, June 27th— 29th. In the high Sierras three were 

 seen in Shotgun Canon, July 10th. 



33. Phalaenoptilus nuttallii californicus. California Poorwill. 



Several Poorwills were heard in the foot hills near Tres Pinos 

 throughout the moonlit night of June 25th. 



34. Chordeiles virginiauus henryi 1 Western Night Hawk. 



While all Night Hawks seen were flying so high as to prevent 

 their capture, it seems probable that two, seen near Tres Pinos, 

 June 25th, and also several observed at Kern River Lakes, July 

 13th, were of this form. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



35. Chordeiles texensis ? Texan Night Hawk. 



A number of Night Hawks seen at Big Pine, Owen's Valley, 

 July 18th, were referred to this species. 



36. Chaetura vauxii. Vaux's Swift. 



Five Vaux's Swifts were seen with a flock of Violet-green Swal- 

 lows near Boulder, June 21st. It is probable that they were breed- 

 ing in hollow redwoods. 



37. Trochilus alexandri. Black-chinned Humming-bird. 



This Humming-bird was noted only near Lone Pine, where sev- 

 eral were observed July 16th. 



38. Calypte anna. Anna's Humming-bird. 



Near Watsonville this fine bird frequented the blossoms of the 

 buckeye, June 24th. Several were seen near San Benito, June 

 26th-27th. 



39. Selasphorus rufus. Rufous Humming-bird. 



Two individuals of this little species were observed near Mineral 

 King, July 7th. They were flying about a clump of low bushes at 

 an altitude of about 7,500 feet. 



40. Tyrannus verticalis. Arkansas Kingbird. 



The western Kingbird was very common in the vicinity of San 

 Juan, Hollister and Tres Pinos, June 25th. At Tres Pinos a pair 

 had a nest which contained four young nearly ready to fly. The 

 species was observed in the valley of the San Benito as far up as 

 Erie. 



In the San Joaquin Valley this bird was very abundant, and 

 several nests had been built upon the crossbars of telegraph poles. 

 It was noted near the east fork of the Kaweah, but disappeared a 

 short distance above Cain's Flat, July 6th. 



In Owen's Valley several were noted near Lone Pine and Inde- 

 pendence, July 16th— 17th. 



41. Myiarchus cinerascens. Ash-throated Flycatcher. 



The Ash-throat was quite common in the Coast Range between 

 Saratoga and Boulder, June 21st. It was observed in the hills near 

 AVatsonville, June 23d, and at the headwaters of the San Benito 

 Creek, June 29th. 



42. Sayornis saya. Say's Phoebe. 



A pair of Say's Phoebes had a nest in a barn in Round Valley, 

 which contained two large young, July 19th. 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



43. Sayornis nigricans. Black Phoebe. 



The Black Phoebe was not uncommon at Boulder, June 21st, 

 Watsonville, San Juan and Hollister, June 24th, Tres Pinos June 

 25th, and San Benito, June 27th. Several were observed along the 

 east fork of the Kaweah, July 4th. 



44. Contopus richardsonii. Western Wood Pewee. 



The Western Wood Pewee was common along the streams near 

 Saratoga and Congress Springs, June 21st, but was not again met 

 except on the east fork of the Kaweah River, where several were 

 observed July 5th. 



45. Pica nuttallii. Yellow-billed Magpie. 



The Yellow-billed Magpie was common at Visalia, July 3d. 



46. Cyanocitta stelleri frontalis. Blue-fronted Jay. 



This Jay was very common in the Coast Range between Saratoga 

 and Boulder, June 21st. It was again noted shortly after entering 

 the coniferous woods on the east fork of the Kaweah, July 6th ; 

 was very common at Weishar Mill, and ranged up almost to Min- 

 eral King, July 7th. 



47. Aphelocoma californica. California Jay. 



The California Jay was found in the Coast Range between Sara- 

 toga and Boulder, June 21st. It was common along the San 

 Benito Creek from Tres Pinos to its source, June 15th-29th, and 

 was again observed at Visalia and along the east fork of the Ka- 

 weah to the lower limit of pines. 



48. Corvus americanus. Crow. 



Crows were abundant near San Benito, June 27th, and several 

 small flocks were seen in Pleasant Valley, June 30th. They were 

 very numerous between Visalia and Three Rivers, July 3d. 



49. Nucifraga Columbiana. Clark's Nutcracker. 



A noisy troop of Clark's Crows was observed almost at the top of 

 Farewell Gap, July 8th. The species was again seen near the head 

 waters of the south fork of the Kern River, July 15th. 



50. Agelaius phoeniceus. Red-winged Blackbird. 



Red-wings were many near Watsonville, June 24th. A few were 

 seen at Trout Meadows, July 12th, and several near Lone Pine, 

 July 17th. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



51. Sturnella magna negleota. Western Meadow Lark. 



This Meadow Lark was abundant in the fields near Watsonville, 

 San Juan, Hollister and Tres Pinos, June 23d to 26th, and in al- 

 most all parts of the San Joaquin Valley where any low vegetation 

 grew July Jst to 4th. 



52. Icterus bullocki. Bullock's Oriole. 



Bullock's Oriole was observed near the following places: San 

 Juan and Hollister, June 24th ; Tres Pinos, where a pair had a 

 nest which contained large young, June 25th; San Benito, June 

 27th ; Erie, June 29th ; Los Gatos Creek, June 30th ; Lemoore, 

 July 1st ; Visalia, July 4th ; east fork of the Kaweah River, July 

 5th ; and Yosemite Valley, July 24th. 



63. Scolecophagus cyanocephalus. Brewer's Blackbird. 



Brewer's Blackbird was noted near the following places : Sara- 

 toga, June 21st; Watsonville, June 23d; San Juan, June 24th; 

 Hollister, June 24th ; Tres Pinos, June 26th ; San Benito, June 

 27th ; Lemoore, July 1st ; and Trout Meadows, July 12th. 



54. Carpodacus purpureus californicus. California Purple Fineb. 



The California Purple Finch was not uncommon in the Coast 

 Range near Boulder, June 21st. Three were seen near Watson- 

 ville, June 23d. 



55. Carpodacus cassini. Cassin's Purple Finch. 



Cassin's Finch was first seen a mile or two below 7 Mineral King, 

 on the east fork of the Kaweah, July 7th. They were much more 

 numerous in Shotgun Canon, July 8th to 10th. 



56. Carpodacus mexicanus frontalis. House Finch. 



The " Redhead " was found near Watsonville, San Juan, and 

 Hollister, June 24. It was plentifully distributed in San Benito 

 Valley from Tres Pinos up to the divide. A pair had a nest in a 

 tin can hung in the porch of a farm house on the east fork of the 

 Kaweah River, which contained two young birds, July 4th. 



57. Leucosticte tephrocotis. Gray-crowned Leucosticte. 



Farewell Gap was filled with snow on July 8th, and here several 

 small flocks of Gray-crowned Finches were busily feeding on small 

 flies and grubs. A single bird of this species was seen in Mono 

 Pass, July 22d. 



58. Spinus tristis. American Goldfinch. 



The American Goldfinch was observed only near Watsonville, 

 June 23. It is abundant near Monterey in May and June, where 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



it is associated with S. psaltria, S. lawrencei, S. pinus, Carpodacus 

 purpureus calif or nicus and C. mexicanus frontalis. 



59. Spinus psaltria. Green-backed Goldfinch. 



" Wild Canaries " were many between Santa Cruz and San Ben- 

 ito, June 22d to 27th. Others were noted at the headwaters of the 

 San Benito Creek, June 29th. 



60. Spinus lawrencei. Lawrence's Goldfinch. 



Several Lawrence's Goldfinches were seen near San Benito, June 

 26th. The species was not observed elsewhere. 



61. Chondestes grammaous strigatus. Western Lark Finch. 



The " Field Sparrow " was very common in the grain fields near 

 "Watson ville, San Juan, Tres Pinos and San Benito, June 23d to 

 27th. It was seen also at Armona, in the San Joaquin Valley, July 1st. 



62. Zonotrichia leucophrys. White-crowned Sparrow. 



The White-crowned Sparrow breeds commonly near Weisbar 

 Mill and extends its range up the east fork of the Kaweah to an 

 altitude of about 10,500 feet. Here several were heard singing 

 where more than half the ground was covered with snow, July 8th. 

 A nest, found near the source of Owen's River, contained four 

 young, apparently just hatched, July 21st. 



63. Spizella socialis arizonse. Western Chipping Sparrow. 



Chipping Sparrows were quite common in San Benito Valley, 

 June 26th to 29th. 



64. Junco hyemalis thurberi. Thurber's Junco. 



Thurber's Junco was everywhere throughout the timbered regions 

 near Mineral King, July 7th, Shotgun Canon, July 9th— lltb, Kern 

 River Lakes, July 13— 14th, and Little Yosemite, July 23d. Near 

 Weishar Mill a nest was found which contained three small, young, 

 July 7th, while one near Kern River Lakes contained four nearly 

 fresh eggs, July 14th. 



65. Junco hyemalis pinosus. Point Pinos Junco. 



This Junco, described from Monterey, was found breeding abund- 

 antly in the Coast Range from the vicinity of Saratoga to Boulder, 

 June 21st. At Boulder it was even more common than at Monterey 

 in May. 



66. Aniphispiza belli nevadensis. Sage Sparrow. 



Several birds of this species were shot near Big Pine, Owen's 

 Valley, July 18th. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



67. Melospiza fasciata samuelis. Samuel's Song Sparrow. 

 This bird was common near Saratoga, June 21st. 



68. Melospiza fasciata heermanni. Heermann's Song Sparrow. 

 A few were found at Lone Pine, July 17th. 



69. Passerella iliaca megarhyncka. Thick-billed Sparrow. 



The Thick-billed Sparrow was observed only between Shotgun 

 Canon and Trout Meadows, July llth. 



70. Pipilo maculatus oregonus. Oregon Towhee. 



This species was constantly present in the Coast Range between 

 Saratoga and Boulder. Many of the specimens approach P. m. meg- 

 alonyx. 



71. Pipilo fuscus crissalis. Califoraian Towhee. 



The California Towhee was rarely out of sight between Saratoga 

 and Santa Cruz, June 21st-22d. Several were seen near Watson- 

 ville, June 23d, Hollister, June 24th, San Benito, June 26th, and 

 Erie, June 29th. 



72. Habia melanocephala. Black-headed Grosbeak. 



This Grosbeak enlivened the woods between Saratoga and Boul- 

 der, June 21st. It was again observed at Aptos, June 23d, and was 

 abundant in San Benito Valley, June 25th-29th. One was seen in 

 Yosemite Valley, July 24th. 



73. Guiraca caeruiea eurhyncha. Western Blue Grosbeak. 



The Western Blue Grosbeak was first observed near Lemoore in 

 the San Joaquin Valley, July 1st. In Owen's Valley it was com- 

 mon near Independence, July 18th. 



74. Passerina amoena. Lazuli Bunting. 



The Lazuli Buntings were singing along the road between Sara- 

 toga and Boulder, June 21st. Several were observed near Watson- 

 ville, June 24th, between San Juan and Hollister, June 24th, and 

 in San Benito Valley, June 26th-29th. In Owen's Valley the species 

 was seen a number of times near Lone Pine, July 16th-17th. One 

 was found in Yosemite Valley, July 24th. 



75. Piranga ludoviciana. Western Tanager. 



The Western Tanager was observed on the east fork of the 

 Kaweah River from Cain's Flat to near Mineral King, July 6th- 

 7th. It was common in Shotgun Canon, July 9th— llth. 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



76. Petrochelidon lunifrons. Cliff Swallow. 



Cliff Swallows were plentiful in the region around Soquel, Aptos, 

 Watsonville, San Juan, Hollister, Tres Pinos, San Benito and Erie, 

 June 23d-29th. A colony had about a hundred nests fastened to 

 the side of a cliff near San Benito. Ten of these nests were exam- 

 ined June 26th. One held three fresh eggs, two each contained 

 three adult birds, the others were empty. 



In Owen's Valley this species was very abundant at Lone Pine, 

 July 17th, at Independence, July 18th, at Big Pine, July 19th, and 

 near Bishop, July 20th. 



77. Chelidon erythrogaster. Barn Swallow. 



The Barn Swallow was rare near Tres Pinos, June 26th. It was 

 not again met until Owen's Valley was reached, where it was found 

 associated with P. lunifrons at all points visited. Two young, which 

 had just left the nest, were sitting on a rafter in a barn at Big Pine, 

 July 18th. A nest near Bishop contained fresh eggs, July 19th. 



78. Tachycineta thalassina. Violet-green Swallow. 



Several Violet-green Swallows were flying with the swifts at 

 Boulder, June 21st, and a few were seen in San Benito Valley, June 

 26th-28th. 



79. Phainopepla nitens. Phainopepla. 



A bird of this species was seen in the Valley of the Los Gatos 

 Creek, June 30th. Several " White-winged Blackbirds" were ob- 

 served on the east fork of the Kaweah, a short distance above Three 

 Rivers, July 4th. 



80. Lanius ludovicianus gambeli. California Shrike. (?) 



A Shrike was seen at Watsonville, June 23d, and others at Hol- 

 lister and Tres Pinos, June 24th. A number were in the lower 

 part of San Benito Valley, June 26th-27th, and in the San Joaquin 

 Valley near Huron and Armona, July 1st. 



81. Vireo gilvus. Warbling Vireo. 



The Warbling Vireo was encountered only in San Benito Valley, 

 where it was not uncommon, June 27th-28th. 



82. Helminthophila celata lutescens. Lutescent Warbler. 



This warbler was singing everywhere in the Coast Range near 

 Boulder, June 21st, but was not again observed until near Mineral 

 King, where several were feeding at an altitude of 7,400 feet, July 

 7th. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



83. Deudroica aestiva. Yellow Warbler. 



Several Yellow Warblers were playing in the bushes near Sara- 

 toga, June 21st. One was noted at Watsonville, June 23d, and the 

 species was well represented in the San Benito Valley, June 26th- 

 28th. 



84. Dendroica occidentalis. Hermit Warbler. 



A single male of this species was seen among the willows at Miu- 

 eral King, July 8th. 



85. Clinclus mexicanus. Ousel. 



Two Ousels were flirting on a raft of logs under a bridge in the 

 town of Boulder, June 22d. One was observed near Mineral King, 

 July 7th, standing upon a rock in the middle of the east fork of the 

 Kaweah River, which at this point is a mass of foaming rapids. 

 Soon it started up the stream but quickly dived under the water to 

 reappear a few moments later some distance below its starting point. 

 This performance was repeated several times. An adult and two 

 full grown young were secured on the Little Kern River at the foot 

 of Shotgun Canon, July 10th. 



86. Oroscoptes montanus. Sage Thrasher. 



The only Sage Thrasher observed was hanging with its neck 

 pierced by a barb of a wire fence in Round Valley, July 19th. 



87. Mimus polyglottos. Mockingbird. 



Mockingbirds were living in the gardens at Lemoore, July 1st. 

 Several were heard near Visalia, July 3d. 



88. Harporhynchus redivivus. California Thrasher. 



The " Mountain Mockingbird " was numerous in the Coast Range 

 between Saratoga and Boulder, June 21st. Several were observed 

 in the foothills near Watsonville, June 23d. 



89. Harporhynchus lecontei. LeConte's Thrasher. 



One was noted between Independence and Big Pine, July 18th. 



90. Thryothorus bewickii spilurus. Vigor's Wren. 



This Wren was frequently heard in the Coast Range north of 

 Boulder, June 21st. 



91. Certhia familians occidentalis. California Creeper. 



Two Creepers were busily examining the trunk of a redwood near 

 Boulder, June 22d. Several were seen at Weishar Mill (altitude 

 6,720 feet), July 7th. One was shot at Kern River Lakes, July 

 14th. 



15 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



92. Parus inornatus. Plain Tit,. 



This bird was seen only in the Coast Range north of Boulder, 

 where it was generally distributed, June 21st. 



9*3. Parus rufescens neglectus. California Chickadee. 



Troops of Chickadees scolded as I rode through the Coast Range 

 between Saratoga and Boulder. One was seen near Watsonville, 

 June 23d. 



94. Chamsea fasciata. Wren Tit. 



This little bird was rarely silent in the chaparral of the Coast 

 Range north of Boulder, June 21st. Others heard near Watson- 

 ville and San Benito were probably of this form. 



95. Chamaea fasciata henshawi. Pallid Wren Tit. 



Wren Tits, w r hich were heard, but not obtained, at Cain's Flat on 

 the east fork of the Kaweah, July 5th, were doubtless of this pale 

 race. 



96. Psaltriparus minimus californicus. California Bush Tit. 



This Bush Tit was very abundant in the Coast Range near Boul- 

 der, June 21st, and also near San Benito, June 27th-28th. Several 

 flocks were seen near the east fork of the Kaweah a few miles above 

 Three Rivers, July 4th. 



97. Regulus satrapa olivaceus. Western Golden-crowned Kinglet. 



A Golden-crowned Kinglet flitted about in the pines near the 

 trail between Shotgun Canon and Trout Meadows, July 11th. 



98. Turdus ustulatus. Russet-backed Thrush. 



This species was in full song near Boulder, June 21st. Several 

 were noted near Aptos, June 23d. 



99. Merula migratoria propinqua. Western Robin. 



Robins were first met among the pines along the east fork of the 

 Kaweah, at an altitude of about 6,000 feet, July 6th. They were 

 common in Shotgun Canon and at Trout Meadows, July lOth-llth. 

 Several were observed at Kern River Lakes, July 12th— 14th. 



100. Sialia mexicana occidentalis. Western Bluebird. 



A few birds of this species were observed near Boulder, June 21st, 

 one at Watsonville, June 23d, and others in San Benito Valley, 

 June 26th-29th. 



101. Sialia arctica. Mountain Bluebird. 



Mountain Bluebirds were often seen in Shotgun Canon, July 10th, 

 but were not observed elsewhere. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



REVISION OF THE NORTH AMERICAN SLUGS : BINNEYA, HEMPHILLIA, 

 HESPERARION, PROPHYSAON AND ANADENULUS. 



BY HENRY A. PILSBRY AND E. G. VANATTA. 



In a former essay 1 we undertook a revision of the Arionid genera 

 Ariolimax and Aphallarion. In the present paper the remaining 

 American genera of Arionidce are similarly treated. 



Profiting by a criticism from one 2 whom all limacologists acknowl- 

 edge as master, we have extended our anatomical observations to 

 the pallial organs, muscle system, etc., with interesting and we 

 believe important results. 



The genera of Arionidse, often scattered even by the great malacol- 

 ogists among Helicid or Limacid groups, now fall into orderly se- 

 quence ; and in the flood of light disclosed by comparative study of 

 the myology, the phylogeny and approximately final classification 

 of the various groups is seen clearly outlined before us. 



Trivial and unsatisfactory as are the external features of slugs, 

 the details of their internal morphology are wonderfully varied. 

 Everywhere there are important characters; and those who starve 

 their souls on a mere study of the genitalia and oral armature miss 

 the best part of the feast. 



Believing with Cope that all the facts of morphology should be 

 taken into account in systematic classification — that " system " is, in 

 fact, an epitome of the total structure, as well as, with certain dis- 

 tortions, a phylogeny of organisms, we have freely used characters 

 from all organs in which we found differentiation, in the construc- 

 tion of our scheme of family, subfamily and generic classification. 



We must again gratefully acknowledge our indebtedness to vari- 

 ous friends and correspondents for material received, and especially 

 to Messrs. P. B. Randolph, J. G. Malone and Fred. L. Button. 

 Slugs have also been received from J. G. Cooper, T. D. A. Cockerell, 

 E. H. Ashmun, Wm. H. Dall, W. G. Binney and others ; and the 

 series in our collection from Henry Hemphill has also been of great 

 service. 



1 Proc Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1896, pp. 339-350, pi. xii-xiv. 



2 Dr. H. Simroth, in Zoologisches Centralblatt, IV, No. 6, March, 1897. 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Our observations may be grouped under four captions : I, Notes 

 on the comparative anatomy of Ariouidce ; 3 II, Classification ; III, 

 Descriptions of the genera and species, and IV, Brief directions for 

 collecting and preparing slugs. 



I. Anatomy of Ariojnid^:. 



General external features. — Slugs of the family Arioniclse vary in 

 external form from the typical Limax shape, to forms with a con- 

 spicuous dorsal hump. The mantle is generally oval, situated anter- 

 iorly on the body, and completely closed over the shell, but in the 

 humped forms it is more posterior and larger, extending some dis- 

 tance in front of the shell, which is more or less exposed. The 

 breathing pore is in its right side near the edge, connected therewith 

 by a gutter. The mantle is adnate at the sides and behind, but 

 free for some distance in front. The foot always has longitudinal 

 " pedal furrows " above its lateral edges, defining a vertically grooved 

 band or " foot margin." The pedal furrows meet at the tail, at 

 which point there is often a " caudal gland," pit or slit developed. 

 The surface sculpture of the integument of the foot is varied in the 

 several genera and species. In Ariolimax there are close parallel 

 grooves above, becoming oblique and more spaced at the sides, and 

 with less conspicuous grooves at right angles to these, uniting them. 

 In Hemphillia, Binneya and A nadenus there is a dorsal groove run- 

 ning back from the mantle, with oblique grooves branching from it 

 on each side. In Prophysaon the surface is divided into a reticula- 

 tion of long diamond shaped meshes by pigmented grooves, each 

 mesh being further subdivided. One species, P. cceruleum, is an 

 exception, having longitudinal grooves as in Ariolimax or Arion. 



The sole is distinctly divided into three longitudinal tracts separ- 

 ated by grooves in Anadenulus. In some other genera (Ariolima- 

 cince) there is an indistinct tripartite division, while in others (Pro- 

 physaon, Hemphillia, etc.), this is not recognizable. 



Shell. — The shell varies in form from a moderately well developed 

 spiral (Binneya) or a convex plate (Hemphillia) exposed entirely 

 or in part by an orifice in the mantle, to a nearly flat, wholly inter- 

 nal plate as in most of the other genera. In some forms of Prophy- 



3 The elementary character of a portion of this paper scarcely calls for apol- 

 ogy in view of the fact that the study of slugs in America is still in an em- 

 bryonic condition. While in Europe there are many expert observers, we 

 have probably not more than four or five men in America who have given 

 especial attention to them. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



saon and Avion this plate is largely cuticular, the calcareous layer 

 being represented only by scattered, angular, granules. In all cases 

 the shell-cavity in the mantle is small, not much larger than the en- 

 closed shell. This contrasts strongly with the allied family Philo- 

 mycicke, which has an enormously extended, empty shell sack. 



General internal topography. — In most genera of completely 

 limaciform external contour, the body from head to tail is excava- 

 ted into one general body cavity (see these Proceedings for 1896, 

 PI. XIII, fig. l),in which the digestive system lies extended, with the 

 genitalia lying parallel with or across it, the liver or liver and ovo- 

 testis extending into the tail. In genera with a dorsal hump (Bin- 

 neya and Hemphillia) that portion of the foot behind the posterior 

 end of the hump is not excavated, but solid as in Helix and other 

 spiral-shelled genera. The liver and ovotestis lie in the posterior 

 portion of the cavity of the hump, into which the viscera are 

 crowded upward and forward. Along the floor of the body cavity, 

 extending from below the mouth a variable distance backward, lies 

 the suboral gland (P. A. N. S., 1896, PI. XIII, f. 1), which in some 

 genera is deeply imbedded in the muscular tissue of the sole, in 

 others lies lightly attached thereto. 4 In Ariolimax and its immedi- 

 ate allies the genital system including the ovotestis, is crowded for- 

 ward into the anterior half of the animal's length ; in Prophysaon 

 and most other genera it lies stretched out at greater length, and 

 the albumen gland and ovotestis are decidedly posterior. Other 

 peculiarities in the arrangement of the organs are noticed below. 



Alimentary tract. — The buccal body in Arionidve is short, as in 

 allied families of snails. The jaw varies from thin and flexible to 

 strong, is of the ordinary arched form, and is always sculptured an- 

 teriorly. The usual sculpture consists of numerous flattened ribs 

 deuticulating the cutting margin ; but in Prophysaon fasciatum the 

 structure is rather a series of narrow, hardly overlapping or imbri- 

 cating plaits, much as in some species of the genus Flammnlina of 

 the Endoclontidce. In P. humile the plaits seem quite lost in 

 a general, close, vertical striation, as in Pyramidula, also a genus of 

 Endodontidce. 



The radula resembles that of the Endodontidoz. The central 

 teeth are tricuspid, ectocones small. Lateral teeth bicuspid, passing 



4 This gland, the function of which is to secrete mucus to lubricate the sole 

 in crawling, was erroneously interpreted as a buccal retractor muscle by 

 Binney, Man. Amer. Land Shells, p. 98, second paragraph from top. 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



gradually into the marginal series by shortening of the basal-plates. 

 Marginals bicuspid, with occasionally a tooth with the ectocone 

 bifid. In the Ariolimacince the inner cusps of the outer lateral and 

 inner marginal teeth are much lengthened and oblique, the ectocones 

 much reduced, simulating the pseudo-zonitoid teeth of Flammulina. 

 Arion also shows this tendency to a much less degree. In the other 

 genera the cusps of these teeth are short or of moderate length. 



All ArionidaB have four longitudinal folds of the intestine, 5 as 

 usual in slugs generally ; the main divergence being in the compar- 

 ative length of the folds and the degree of their torsion. The folds 

 are designated by the initial G with exponents 1, 2, 3, 4, as in PI. 

 XI, fig. 29. The anterior loop between G 2 and G 3 is caught up by 

 the cephalic artery immediately upon its emergence from the di- 

 aphragm (PI. XIV, figs. 66, 70, 72). In Arion the posterior loop 

 between G 1 and G 2 , forming the lower end of the stomach, lies pos- 

 terior to all other intestine folds; 6 but in all the other American 

 genera the loop formed by G 3 and G 4 lies behind the stomach. 



In Ariolimax, Aphallarion and Hespe> arion (PI. XI, fig. 33) the 

 gut is long and spirally wound. In Prophysaon (PL XI, figs. 28- 

 30, 32, 34), Anadenulus (fig. 35), Hemphillia (fig. 36) and Binneya 

 (fig. 31) it is much less twisted spirally. In the latter two genera 

 the posterior loop formed by G 3 and G 4 is very short, on account of 

 the crowding forward of the viscera into the dorsal hump. 



In Prouhysaon, Anadenulus, Hemphillia and Binneya there is no 

 differentiation of the first fold into crop and stomach, such as occurs 

 in Ariolimax, etc. 



Reproductive organs. — In the Arionidoz there are two main types 

 of genital organs. In the more primitive and normal type there is 

 a well developed penis provided with a retractor muscle, and in 

 every way homologous with the same organ in the Helices and pul- 

 monate snails generally. This may be seen in Ariolimax, Hesper- 

 arion (PL XII, figs. 44, 47), Binneya, Hemphillia, and the Himal- 

 ayan genus Anadenus. In the slugs, as well as in many other 

 snails, the terminal portion of the vas deferens is noticeably enlarged, 

 often considerably swollen for a distance above its insertion in the 

 penis (see PI. XII, fig. 49, epi., Hemphillia ; and these Proceedings, 

 1896, PL XIV, fig. 14, epi., Ariolimax). This enlarged tract has 



5 In Aphallarion there is a short loop interposed between the second and 

 third long folds, making six folds. See P. A. N. S., 1S96, pi. 13, f. 4. 



6 P. A. N. S., 1896, PI. 13, f. 3. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



been called the " epiphallus." In the other type, to which Avion, 

 Geomalacus, Prophysaon and Aphallarion belong, the penis has been 

 lost through degeneration, and the vas deferens enters the atrium 

 directly, its lower course being enlarged or modified in various ways 

 (PI. XIII, all figs.) as described above, into an epiphallus. 7 The epi- 

 phallus is not evertibie, has no retractor, and does not have the 

 function of a penis. In it the sperm is lodged in packets or " sperm- 

 atophores." These, in Hesperarion and Prophysaon, are oblong, 

 narrow capsules of chitinous texture, with a loug, slender filament 

 at one end (PI. XII, fig. 43). They may occasionally be found in 

 the spermatheca (PI. XII, fig. 48, where the outlines of several are 

 faintly visible through the wall). In genera with this type of geni- 

 talia the vagina and lower portion of the free oviduct are introvert- 

 ible, and assume the function of the penis, being provided with a 

 retractor or retractors; and in some genera, such as A Hon, the 

 spermatheca duct also has a retractor muscle. In forms having the 

 spermatheca duct inserted directly upon the atrium, there is, of 

 course, no vagina, and the free lower portion of oviduct alone acts 

 as penis. 8 The peculiar enlargement of the epiphallus in Prophy- 



7 The term epiphallus was originally proposed some years ago by the senior 

 author of this paper for the structure as commonly found in such Hclicidte as 

 the West Indian Caracolus and Pleurodonte species, and in most of the larger 

 East Indian and Australian forms, in which it occurs associated with a well- 

 developed penis, as in Hesperarion, etc. It is strictly synonymous with Sim- 

 roth's term "Patronenstrecke." Mr. Collinge (Proc. Zool Soc. Lond., 1897, 

 p. 447) proposes to substitute "sperm-duct" for what we term epiphallus, 

 and restrict the latter name to '' the terminal portion of the vas deferens above 

 the sperm-duct." There is, of course, no objection to the substitution of an 

 English name for the Greek compound, but since the term epiphallus has 

 already been used in extensive and numerous works in America, England and 

 Germany, it seems a little revolutionary to completely alter its significance. 

 If Mr. Collinge wants a term for the vas deferens above the epiphallus, he 

 had better, to avoid confusion, invent a new one ; though what he wants it for 

 is not quite apparent. 



8 Arion is a case in point, cf. Collinge, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1897, p. 447. 

 Geomalacus also is similar. In Prophysaon and Aphallarion however, it is the 

 vagina proper which performs both its usual function and that of an evertibie 

 penis. We consider Mr. Collinge's statement (/. c. ) that ''Messrs. Pilsbry 

 and Vanatta have suggested the term * * * vagina for what I term free- 

 oviduct " as an inadequate representation of our position, due, no doubt, to our 

 inadvertent enumeration of Arion as one of the genera in which the vagina 

 functions as a penis. We use the term "vagina" for the passage below the 

 union of the spermatheca duct with the free oviduct proper (see PI. XIII, fig. 

 57, vag. ), considering such usage justified by its functions. The term " free 

 oviduct" will naturally be retained for the passage from the apex of the va- 

 gina (when present) to the point of approximation of the vas deferens. Mor- 

 phologically, the vagina may be regarded as an elongated portion of the 

 atrium. 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



saon is not hollow like a penis, but has a small duct only, the walls 

 being solid and muscular. 



The remaining organs do not differ from their usual structure in 

 Aulacopod pulmonates, although the position of the ovotestis is 

 varied in the several genera. 



Muscles. — Only the muscles lying free in the body cavity, not 

 those composing the external walls or sole, will be considered herein, 

 the latter being morphologically similar in Arionidce to the other 

 land snails. 



The free muscles belong to two groups : (1) retractors of the buc- 

 cal mass, eye-peduncles and tentacles, and (2) retractors of the 

 generative organs. 



The buccal and tentacle retractors, with the foot retractor or re- 

 tractors in ordinary spiral-shelled snails converge and are attached 

 posteriorly or proximally to the columella of the shell. In Limacid 

 or Arionid slugs the degenerate shell no longer serves as a support 

 for these muscles, which are inserted at or near the posterior margin 

 of the diaphragm, or floor of the lung ; this position approximating 

 pretty closely to the posterior or former columellar margin of the 

 vestigial shell. In the more primitive genera, Binneya, Hemphillia, 

 Ariolimax, etc., the retractors still converge to a point near the 

 middle of the back margin of the lung, under the posterior edge of 

 the shell (PI. XIV, figs. 65, 66, 67, 69, 71). In the more divergent 

 genera Avion (PI. XIV, fig. 72) and Prophysaon (PI. XIV, fig. 70), 

 the eye and tentacle retractors have moved from the middle to the 

 outer posterior angles of the diaphragm. The convergent retractors 

 of Ariolimax and its allies are a heritage from the spiral-shelled an- 

 cestors of the family, although the utility of the convergence is no 

 longer present ; while the parallel retractors of Avion, etc., are a 

 later modification which resulted in a straight backward pull of 

 each retractor, independent of the others, and possibly brought about 

 mechanically by the tendency toward separation of the grouped 

 proximal insertions by strains on the converging muscles from their 

 separated distal terminations. Another muscle more or less closely 

 associated with the buccal and tentacle retractor system, is found in 

 Ariolimax, Hemphillia and allied genera (PI. XIV, figs. 65, 66, 69). 

 This is a band passing from near the proximal insertions of buccal 

 and eye retractors forward across the diaphragm to an insertion in 

 the top or right side of the head. It has been termed the " reten- 

 sor " by Simroth, who observed it in Ariolimax Calijornicus, and 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



supposed it to be an aid to the extension of the penis. We scarcely 

 endorse this view of its function, after observing it in several other 

 genera in which it is not inserted near the atrium, but in the integ- 

 ument of the head or back above. It may aid in withdrawing the 

 head beneath the mantle. Morphologically this muscle is regarded 

 by Simroth as a slip detached from the body-wall. In this, again, 

 we are compelled to dissent. We regard it as a retractor pedis, the 

 anterior insertion of which has moved from the sole to the side or 

 upper integument. Pendiug further investigation into its physiolo- 

 gic function and morphologic equivalency, we continue to use Sim- 

 roth's name " retensor " for this muscle. 



The retractors of the genitalia are far less constant in form, num- 

 ber and position than those of the buccal mass and eyes. Their 

 proximal insertions here, as in the spiral snails, are on the diaphragm 

 or lung floor. The chief muscles of this system are the penis retrac- 

 tor (PI. XIV, figs. 66, 71 r.p.), which is almost invariably inserted 

 on the left side of the diaphragm, and the oviduct retractors (PI. 

 XIV, fig. 67, vag. r.), which may be inserted either upon the 

 diaphragm or at its posterior border. The latter are well developed 

 only in those genera in which the oviduct or vagina has assumed 

 the function of a penis. In Avion and Geomalacus the sperm atheca 

 duct also has a retractor. The several retractors of the female or- 

 gans are quite inconstant in position and number (being often in- 

 creased by splitting). They are not homologous with the penis re- 

 tractor, but have been developed de novo in the genera requiring 

 them. 



Another muscle deserving mention is a short band uniting the 

 swollen epiphallus to its peduncle, in the genus Prophymon (PI. 

 XIII, fig. 57, muse). This muscle so conceals the true structure of 

 base of the epiphallus that no former authors with the exception of 

 Simroth, have correctly described or represented it. 



Pallial region. — Underlying 9 the retractor muscle system is seen 

 a thin but dense membrane perforated only by the aorta and the 

 rectum. This is the " diaphragm " separating the body cavity from 

 that of the lung (indicated in outline in the figures on PI. XV). 

 Removing the diaphragm, the inner surface of the lung is exposed, 

 densely reticulated with blood vessels (PI. XV, fig. 73). The breath- 

 ing pore or pulmonary aperture (PI. XV, fig. 77, p. a.) is situated at 



9 The slug being pinned back downward in the dissecting pan. In the 

 natural position of the animal it overlies the muscles. 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



the middle of the right margin of the lung cavity in some genera 

 (Ariolimax, Aphallarion, Hesperarion), at the right anterior angle 

 in others {Avion, Prophysaon). The rectum lies along the right side, 

 posteriorly, and opens at the breathiug pore (PI. XV, figs. 73, etc., 

 r). Lying in the lung cavity, and often almost filling it, is the kid- 

 ney (PI. XV, figs. 76, 77, 80, etc., k). It is rounded or squarish in 

 shape, thick, and attached by its upper side 10 to the roof of the lung 

 cavity around the heart and toward its posterior side. The kidney 

 appears variously striated or shows branching ducts (as in PI. XV, 

 fig. 74). Its secretion is voided through a slender duct the (second- 

 ary ureter, PI. XV, u. r) emerging posteriorly toward the right 

 side, running parallel to the rectum, and opening near the edge of 

 the breathing pore. The characters of the ureter are insufficiently 

 shown in the figures. Behind the middle of the kidney there is an 

 excavation perforating it, occupied by the heart (PI. XV, a. v.). In 

 some genera both chambers of the heart are exposed below ; in 

 others only the ventricle. Only in Aphallarion are both auricle 

 and ventricle concealed by a thin outer layer of the kidney. We 

 have occasionally observed a portion of the kidney protruded 

 tongue-like from the breathing pore in drowned specimens of large 

 species. The morphology of these organs is not greatly varied 

 among the genera of Arionidse, and need not be farther considered 

 here. In defining the families of Pulmonata, these organs give 

 characters of great value. 



II. CLASSIFICATION. 



The generic characters of slugs in general, and of Arionidse in 

 particular, as given in the standard manuals and faunal monographs, 

 are of the most superficial character. With a single conspicuous, 

 exception, 11 we do not know of any writer who has given evidence of 

 much insight into or comprehension of the meaning of the varied 

 internal structure of slugs, or who has even suggested a phylogenetic 

 arrangement of the genera of Arionidre. 



The complete classification of this and related families cannot be 

 presented here without unduly extending the limits of this paper by 

 including information upon the Old World genera ; but so far as 

 the Arionidae are concerned, the essential outlines may be gathered 



10 Or, as the preparation lies, its lower side. 



11 Need we mention the brilliant author of Die Nachtschnecken der Portu- 

 gesisch-Azorischen Fauna? 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



from the table below, as all of the subfamilies are represented by 

 American genera. 



Analytical key to subfamilies and genera. 



I. Retractor muscles of pharynx and tentacles converging back- 

 ward, their posterior insertions contiguous, inserted at the pos- 

 terior edge of the diaphragm. 

 a. Tail solid, the viscera crowded forward and elevated into a 

 dorsal hump or visceral dome ; shell partly or wholly ex- 

 posed ; penis present, with retractor muscle ; ovo-testis 

 posterior in the body-cavity ; intestine short and simply 

 folded ; an accessory " retensor " muscle developed. 



Subfamily BINNEYINiE. 



b. Shell exposed, spiral, Vitrina-shaped, with differen- 

 tiated, lirate or costulate nepionic whorl ; mantle 

 with small lobes on each side of the breathing orifice ; 

 sole distinctly tripartite ; genitalia with accessory 

 organs, the penis retractor inserted on the diaphragm ; 

 -retensor muscle short, slender, toward the right side ; 

 buccal retractor shortly bifurcate anteriorly. 



BlNNEYA. 



b' . Shell partially exposed, a flat or convex, non-spiral 

 plate ; no lobes on the large mantle ; sole not in the 

 least tripartite; genitalia without accessory organs, 

 the penis retractor muscle inserted on the " retensor," 

 which is strong, wide, and to the left of the buccal 

 retractor, the latter not bifurcate anteriorly, 



Hemphillia. 

 a'. True slugs, the foot excavated throughout, the body-cavity 

 (and viscera) extending to the tail ; shell small, flat, not 

 spiral, wholly buried ; ovo-testis anterior to the posterior 

 loop of intestine ; intestine long, spirally twisted ; inner 

 cusps of outer lateral and inner marginal teeth much 

 lengthened ; pharynx retractor deeply bifurcate anteriorly. 



Subfamily ARIOLIMACLN.E. 



b. A well-developed " retensor " muscle present ; geni- 

 talia with no appendicula, the ovo-testis anterior 

 in position; tail with a "plug" in the caudal pore. 

 Large slugs. 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



c. No penis nor penis retractor muscle, the vagina 

 assuming its function ; a small epiphallus ; right 

 eye retractor not passing between male and fe- 

 male branches of genitalia, Aphallarion. 

 c'. Penis large, introverted apically, with well-de- 

 veloped retractor muscle ; right eye retractor 

 involved between male and female branches of 

 genitalia, Ariolimax. 

 b'. No retensor muscle; an appendicula on the atrium ; 

 penis simple, with apical papilla and a well-devel- 

 oped retractor muscle ; caudal pore an open pit ; 

 foot-margin wide. Slugs of moderate size, 



Hesperarion. 

 II. Retractor muscles of pharynx and tentacles running parallel, 

 the latter inserted proximally at the outer posterior angles of the 

 diaphragm; (in American genera the penis and its retractor 

 muscle wanting, the free oviduct or the vagina assuming its 

 function) ; epiphallus variously modified. True slugs, with com- 

 pletely buried shell plate or vestige, and visceral cavity extend- 

 ing into the tail. 



Subfamily ARIONIN^E. 



a. Retractor muscle of the pharynx inserted proximally de- 

 cidedly behind the posterior edge of the diaphragm ; intes- 

 tine long and strongly twisted spirally, the stomach, or 

 posterior loop formed by G 1 and G 2 , lying behind the loop 

 formed by G 3 and G*; kidney ring-like, exposing both 

 chambers of the heart from below. 



b. Epiphallus slender, tapering distally, not abruptly 

 bent or constricted near the atrium ; spermatheca 

 duct inserted upon the atrium; free oviduct func- 

 tional as a penis; ovo-testis extending behind the 

 intestine ; external integument longitudinally rugose ; 

 sole more or less visibly tripartite ; a mucous gland 

 at the tail ; breathing pore decidedly anterior to mid- 

 dle of mantle, the genital orifice below it, Arion. 

 a'. Retractor of the pharynx inserted at the posterior edge of 

 the diaphragm ; intestine shorter, not much twisted spir- 

 ally, the stomach, or posterior loop formed by G 1 and G 2 , 

 lying far anterior to the posterior loop formed by G 3 and 

 G 4 ; external genital orifice anterior, near right tentacle. 






1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



b. Sole not in the least tripartite ; posterior portion of 

 the tail peculiarly modified and capable of self-ampu- 

 tation ; kidney with a large excavation exposing both 

 chambers of the heart ; epiphallus more or less swol- 

 len, suddenly constricted and bent near its insertion 

 in the atrium, with which it communicates byashort 

 pedicel which is bound to the swollen portion of epi- 

 phallus by a muscular band ; vagina functional as a 

 penis ; ovo-testis lying in front of the posterior loop 

 of the gut, Peophysaon. 



b'. Sole tripartite, the narrow median field defined by 

 longitudinal grooves ; tail normal ; kidney covering 

 the auricle (seen from below) ; genitalia unknown, 



Anadentjlus. 



iii. descriptions of genera and species. 



Genus BINNEYA J. G. Cooper, 1863. 



Binneya Cooper, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., Ill, p. 62. 



Xatitkonyx Crosse & Fischer, Joum. de Conchyl.. XV, 1867, p. 223; Moll. 

 Terr, et Fluv. Mex., I, p. 192. Strebel & Pfeffer, Beitrag zur Kenntniss der 

 Fauna Mexikanischer Laud- und Siisswasser Conch vlien, Theil IV, p. 26 

 (1880). 



Somewhat slug-like, with elevated, subspiral visceral hump and 

 external shell, subcentral on the back ; mantle broadly produced 

 beyond the shell, not reflexed over it at edges ; breathing pore sub- 

 median or behind middle of right margin of mantle, a small rounded 

 left and somewhat larger right cervical mantle lobe on each side of 

 it; genital orifice behind the right tentacle; foot radially grooved 

 and reticulate above, the foot-margin narrow ; pedal grooves deep, 

 without a tail pore ; sole tripartite, the areas separated by longitudi- 

 nal grooves; shell Vitrina-shaped, with the first (nepionic) whorl 

 distinctly demarked from the following, and strongly sculptured. 



Viscera elevated into the dorsal hump, the body cavity not ex- 

 tending back of it into the tail, which is solid. 



Jaw arcuate, with numerous ribs denticulating the basal margin. 



Radula with 28-1-28 to 31-1-31 teeth (in B. notabilis), 32- 

 1-32 (in B. cordovan us), the rachidian teeth tricuspid, laterals bi- 

 cuspid, the ectocones small ; marginal teeth bicuspid, the inner cusps 

 moderately long, sometimes bifid. 



Intestinal tract (PI. XI, fig. 31) short; anterior loop formed by 

 G 2 and G s somewhat twisted, posterior loop of G 3 and G* straight 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



and" very short. Liver occupying posterior portion of dorsal hump 

 and spire of shell. 



Genital system with well-developed penis continued beyond inser- 

 tion of retractor in a short epiphallus. Spermatheca with a long 

 duct or one of quite moderate length ; an appendicula near the base 

 of vagina or penis, and, according to Pfeffer, two long-stalked, 

 globose, netted vaginal accessory appendages. 



Muscle system (PI. XIV, fig. 65) Ariolimacine. Buccal and eye 

 retractors converging posteriorly, contiguous at their proximal in- 

 sertions. A " retensor " arises from the roof of visceral cavity 

 slightly anterior to proximal insertion of retractors, and extends 

 anteriorly to the right side near the lower edge of mantle, where it 

 is inserted in the integument. Penis retractor inserted in the left 

 posterior region of -the visceral dome. 



Distribution, Santa Barbara Island, off California, Guadalupe Is- 

 land, off Lower California (B. notabilis), and States of Vera Cruz 

 and Chiapas, Mexico (B. Salleana, Cordovana, Sumichrasti, Chia- 

 pensis). 



The chief differences between Binneya and Xanthonyx seem to be 

 that in Binneya the nepionic shell is spirally lirate, in Xanthonyx 

 radially plicate ; in Xanthonyx there is a small caudal horn, in 

 Binneya none; and there are certain discrepancies in the details of 

 genitalia as described by Binuey, Crosse and Fischer, and Strebel 

 and Pfeffer. These may, perhaps, be in part merely specific varia- 

 tions, and in part errors of observation. On account of the sexually 

 immature condition of our specimens we unfortunately cannot verify 

 the published accounts. The description of the anatomy of Xan- 

 thonyx Salleanus given by Strebel and Pfeffer seems to be worthy 

 of confidence. 



Binneya agrees with Hemphillia in the solid tail, the viscera being 

 crowded forward into the dorsal hump ; in the exposed shell, short 

 and simple gut; the general arrangement of muscles, especially the 

 possession of a " retensor " ; in the well developed penis, and general 

 system of external reticulation. It differs from Hemphillia mainly 

 in the better developed spiral shell, the differently placed retensor 

 muscle and penis retractor, the presence of an appendicula, and the 

 distinctly tripartite sole. That the two genera are closely allied is 

 so obvious as to justify the supposition that Hemphillia descended 

 from a slug very similar to the existing Binneya. 



Cryptostrakon W. G. B. is probably allied to Binneya, but the 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES. OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



muscles, genitalia and alimentary canal are unknown, and the types 

 though in alcohol, have been dried. 



B. notabilis J. G. Cooper. PI. XIV, figs. 63, 64, 65 ; PI. XVI, figs. 87, 88. 



Binneya notabilis J. G. Coop., Proc Cal. Acad. Sci., III, p. 62, figs. 15, in 

 text. Tryon, Amer. Journ. Conch., II, p. 244, pi. 3, f. 4 (copied from Cooper). 

 W. G. Binney, Land and Fresh-water Shells of N. A., I, p. 68, f. 112. Terr. 

 Moll., V, p. 245, f. 141-143; pi. V, f. K (teeth), pi. xi, f. B (genitalia). 

 Man. Amer. Land Shells, p. 10S, f. 71-74. Fourth Supplement to Terr. Moll. 

 V, p. 184, pi. 1, f. 9 (shell). 



Alcoholic specimens measure about 10 mm. long to double that 

 length ; color buff-gray with rather large black dots mainly scattered 

 along the radial grooves of the foot and in a line above the pedal 

 grooves, the mantle maculated with black. Surface with rather 

 coarse radial grooves and sparse reticulation ; a fine groove median 

 on tail above, not extending to the end ; foot margin narrow, closely 

 and evenly crenate ; sole unicolored grayish, rugose and distinctly 

 tripartite. 



Jaw (PI. XVI, fig. 87) and dentition (PI. XVI, fig. 88) described 

 above. 



Digestive and muscular anatomy described above. Our spec- 

 imens were sexually immature, so that the description of genitalia 

 is taken from Binney, Crosse, Fischer, Strebel and Pfeffer. 



Distribution : Santa Barbara Island, off California ; Guadalupe 

 Island, off Lower California. 



Genus HEMPHILLIA Bland & Binney, 1872. 



Hemphillia Bland & Binney, Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., X, p. 208 (1872), 

 type H. glandidosa B. & B. 



Slug-like, with the mantle conspicuously elevated (in alcoholic 

 specimens) into a nonspiral visceral hump; the shell a slightly 

 convex, non-spiral plate partially exposed, its edges buried in the 

 mantle, which is very broadly produced beyond the shell on all 

 sides. Breathing pore behind the middle of right margin of 

 mantle. Genital orifice behind the right tentacle. Foot radially 

 grooved and reticulate above, the foot margin wide, conspicuous ; 

 pedal furrows deep, meeting in a mucous pore at the tad, or without 

 tail gland. Sole not in the least tripartite. 



Viscera elevated into the dorsal hump, the body-cavity not extend- 

 ing back of it into the tail, which is solid. 



Jaw low, wide, with about 14 low wide ribs with shallow intervals, 



Radula with tricuspid central, bicuspid lateral and marginal 

 teeth, the inner cusp (mesocone) of the latter long. 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Intestinal tract short, crowded forward, but little twisted ; G* 

 angularly bent, forming a sort of fifth fold (PL XI, fig. 36). 



Genital system with well developed penis containing penis-papilla, 

 the retractor terminal; passing into an epiphallus. Spermatheca on 

 a short duct, inserted in atrium ; ovotestis at posterior end of vis- 

 ceral cavity, immediately under hind end of shell. 



Muscle system Ariolimacine, the eye and buccal retractors con- 

 verging posteriorly, contiguous at their proximal insertions; buccal 

 retractor spreading where it enters buccal mass, not bifurcate. A 

 broad " retensor " muscle arises at the posterior margin of diaphragm 

 just left of the retractor insertions, and runs forward as far as the 

 front insertion of the mantle (PI. XIV, fig. 69, ret.). Penis retrac- 

 tor inserted proximally on the ventral face of the retensor. Right 

 eye retractor passing between male and female branches of the 

 genitalia. 



Lung radially striate rather than reticulate. Kidney a broad 

 squarish leaf, free for the greater part, adnate dorsally around the 

 heart, (PI. XV, fig. 78). 



Distribution : Oregon, Washington and western Idaho. 



Hemphillia shares with all Ariolimacinoz the primitive arrange- 

 ment of the retractor system. Like all of this subfamily except 

 Hesperarion it possesses that anomalous muscle called by Simroth 

 the " retensor," which we hold to be a modified retractor pedis. 



Apart from these important characteristics of the musculature, 

 there are profound differences from Ariolimax and its allies : the 

 viscera are crowded forward and upward into a visceral hump under 

 the mantle, behind which the foot is solid, as in the spiral-shelled 

 snails; the shell is comparatively large and imbedded only at the 

 edges in the mantle, which exposes a considerable part of it ; and 

 the intestinal tract, while fundamentally of the same type, is con- 

 siderably shortened and simplified. 



In all of these departures from the normal slug structure, Hemp- 

 hillia is akin to Binneya; but it is a more advanced evolution-pro- 

 duct, in that it has lost the spiral torsion of the visceral mass and 

 shell, still retained by Binneya as a reminiscence of long past ances- 

 tors. 



Among the secondary characters separating Hemphillia from 

 Binneya may be mentioned the tripartite sole, narrow foot margin, 

 and small mantle lobes of Binneya, the other genus having no divis- 

 ion of the sole, no mantle lobes and a wide foot margin. Internally, 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



Binneya has an appendicula, the penis retractor is inserted on the 

 lung floor, and the retensor muscle is weak, while in Hemphillia 

 there is no appendicula and the penis retractor is inserted on the 

 surface of the very broad and strong retensor. The digestive tract 

 is considerably alike in the two genera. 



Key to species of Hemphillia. 



a. Mantle papillose; tail acutely keeled above, terminating in a 

 fleshy horn which overhangs the caudal pore ; pedal furrows 

 scarcely rising at their union behind. Penis with a bifid inter- 

 nal process inserted at the apex of the cavity ; spermatheca glob- 

 ular, on a comparatively slender duct; penis retractor muscle 

 inserted upon the epiphallus, H. glandulosa. 



a. Mantle slightly rugose, not papillose ; no horn at tail ; pedal 

 grooves abruptly rising behind, meeting over the tail. Penis 

 with a simple fleshy process inserted at the base of the cavity ; 

 spermatheca small with a very stout duct ; penis retractor muscle 

 apical on penis, H. camelvs. 



H. glandulosa Wand & Binney. PI. IX, figs. 1,2; PI. XII, figs. 49, 50. 



Hemphillia glandulosa Bland & Binney, Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist, of N. Y. , X, 

 p. 209, pi. ix, f. 1, 3 (exterior), 5 (shell), 15-17 (teeth), Terr. Moll., V, p. 

 248, f. 144-140, pi. y, f. J (teeth), pi. xii, f. J, K (genitalia) ?. Man Amer. 

 Land Shells, p. Ill, f. 75-77 (78?). Supplement toT. M., V, pi. iii, f. H (?). 

 Third Supplement, p. 211, pi. iv, f. D. Pilsbry & Vanatta, Nautilus XI, p. 

 44. 



Color in alcohol blackish above, or yellowish with black spots ; 

 the edge of mantle, sides of foot below mantle, foot-margin and sole 

 yellowish ; shell yellow. Mantle extension densely papillose in; 

 front of the shell and at sides. Breathing pore median on the right 

 side. Genital orifice near right tentacle, a groove running from it 

 toward the breathing pore. Foot obliquely grooved and rather 

 coarsely reticulated, pinched up into a high, acute keel posteriorly, 

 this keel declining and terminating in a prominent horn-like process 

 at the end. Foot-margin rather wide, vertically grooved as usual. 

 Pedal furrows scarcely rising at the tail, meeting in a caudal pore 

 immediately below the " horn." Sole transversely wrinkled, the 

 wrinkles bent backward mesially, as in Prophysaon. Length 10 to 

 13 mm. 



Shell convex, with yellow cuticle, thin calcareous layer and pos- 

 terior nucleus. 



Genitalia (PI. XII, figs. 49, 50) with the penis enormously swollen,, 

 its lumen filled by a bifid, fleshy, imperforate, corrugated body 

 16 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



attached to one side above ; epiphallus moderately stout, longer 

 than the penis, bearing the retractor muscle near its base. Sperm- 

 atheca globular, large, borne on a duct of its own length, inserted 

 upon the atrium. 



Type locality, Astoria, Oregon (Hemphill) ; also in Washington 

 atChehalis; and according to Binney, Olympia and Gray's Har- 

 bor. 



Part of several of the references given above apply to H. came- 

 lus, Mr. Binney having included that species in glandulom. The 

 latter is herein restricted to slugs with papillose mantle and caudal 

 horn, as originally indicated by Bland and Binney. 



Besides the conpsicuous external differences noticed under H. 

 camelus, the two species differ markedly in the genitalia. In H. 

 glandulosa the fleshy process in the penis is bifid and attached to 

 the side at the apex of the cavity. In H. camelus the process is 

 simple and attached basally. The position of the penis-retractor 

 and the shape of the spermatheca and its duct differ in the two 

 forms. 



H. camelus Pilsbry & Vanatta. PI. IX, figs. 3, 4 ; PI. XII, figs. 41, 42; PI. XVI, 



fig. 85. 



He?nphillia camelus Pilsbrf & Vanatta, Nautilus, XI, p. 44 (August, 1897). 



Color in alcohol pale grayish-buff, closely speckled and maculated 

 with blackish on the mantle and tail, more sparsely and lightly so 

 on the anterior half of the foot, the sole without dark markings. 

 On the mantle the spots form two more or less distinct longitudinal 

 bands. Surface of the mantle somewhat rugose, not papillate ; 

 breathing pore behind the middle. Genital opening near right 

 tentacle. Foot with a short dorsal groove behind mantle, obliquely 

 descending grooves with sparse reticulation on the sides of tail, and 

 coarse reticulation below mantle laterally ; the head longitudinally 

 closely grooved and reticulate ; sole as in H. glandulosa ; tail some- 

 what keeled above near the end, without any appearance of a cau- 

 dal " horn." Foot-margin wide, grooved vertically ; pedal furrows 

 abruptly and conspicuously rising at the tail, with no noticeable 

 caudal pore at their union, at least in alcoholic examples, but in one 

 specimen there seems to be a transverse slit under the pedal groove, 

 with a vertical gutter below it, T-shaped. In another, nothing of 

 this appears. Length about 28 mm. 



Genitalia (PI. XII, fig. 41, 42) with a very large penis, its cavity 

 filled by a large, transversely corrugated, solid, fleshy body attached 

 at the base of the penis, and a small tongue-like body arising close 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



to the entrance of the epiphallus (fig. 42). The latter is longer than 

 in H. glandulosa, and the retractor muscle is inserted at its root. 

 Spermatheca small, its duct very stout, inserted upon the atrium. 



Shell slightly convex, long-oval, with clear yellow cuticle, thin 

 calcareous layer, and posterior nucleus; the surface lightly marked 

 with growth lines. Length 8, width 5 mm. 



Jaw low, wide, with about 14 low, broad ribs separated by nar- 

 row intervals. Radula : Marginals with rather long inner cusps 

 (PI. XVI, fig. 85). 



Old Mission, Idaho (Henry Hemphill). 



This species has a proportionally smaller shell than H. glandulosa, 

 a longer, less compressed and less carinated tail, with no trace of a 

 caudal horn and no perceptible caudal gland ; the mantle is not 

 papillose, the pedal furrows rise abruptly at the tail, uniting over 

 it, and the genitalia differ in important respects, as noticed under 

 the description of H. glandulosa. 



Genus ARIOLIMAX Morch, 1860. 



Ariolimax Morch, Malak. Blatter, VI, p. 110. Pilsbry & Vanatta, Proc 

 Acad. N. S. Phila., 1896, p. 342. 



To the generic characters described and implied in our former 

 paper, the following may be added : 



Tail gland (PI. XV, fig. 81) a peculiar triangular mass of tissue, in 

 alcoholic specimens deeply fissured transversely. 



Muscle system (PI. XIV, fig. QQ, A. columbianus) having the 

 buccal and eye retractors converging posteriorly, their proximal in- 

 sertions contiguous at the posterior edge of the diaphragm. Buc- 

 cal retractor very deeply bifurcate. An accessory muscle, the 

 " retensor," arises with the retractor group, to the left of the median 

 line, and passing forward is inserted in the integument of the neck, 

 on the right side or above. 



Lung (PI. XV, fig. 73, A. columbianus, the kidney removed) and 

 kidney (PI. XV, fig. 74, A. columbianus) as usual in Arionidce. 

 Auricle concealed by kidney, ventricle (fig. 73, 74, v) exposed. 



Subsequent studies support the conclusion reached in our former 

 paper, that Ariolimax is more closely allied to Aphallarion than to 

 any other known genus. 



Genus APHALLARION Pilsbry & Vanatta, 1896. 

 Aphallarion P. & V., Proc Acad. N. S. Phila., 1896, p. 348. 

 Tail pore as in Ariolimax. 



Muscle system (PI. XIV, fig. 67) substantially like Ariolimax in 

 arrangement of the buccal and eye retractors, except that the right 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



eye retractor is not involved between the $ and 9 branches of 

 genitalia ; " retensor " inserted nearer the median line anteriorly. 

 Penis retractor wanting, but several vaginal retractors (fig. 67, 

 vag. r.) arise from the diaphragm. 



Pallial region as in Ariolimax, except that the kidney is larger, 

 and both auricle and ventricle are concealed therein (PI. XV, fig. 

 76). 



Aphallarion is intimately related to Ariolimax, from which it dif- 

 fers in the absence of a penis and its retractor, in having the right 

 eye retractor free from and to the left of the genitalia, and in hav- 

 ing both chambers of the heart embedded in the kidney. No other 

 genus is nearly allied. 



To our former account it may be added that Mr. Wetherby in- 

 forms us that his Ariolimax Hecoxi from Santa Cruz is specifically 

 the same as our A. Buttoni. As he remembers the genital system, 

 it corresponded with that of our species. Since A. Hecoxi was not 

 described, this will in no way affect nomenclature, but is of interest 

 as removing a doubtful species from slug literature, and extending 

 the geographic range of Aphallarion. 



Genus HESPERARION Siuiroth, 1891. 



Hesperarion Simroth, Malak. Blatter (n. F. ) XI, Heft 2, p. 109. Type 

 Ariolimax niger Coop. 



Slugs with the usual small, anterior, shield-like mantle, completely 

 buried, non-spiral shell plate, and long body-cavity excavated to 

 end of tail. Breathing pore somewhat behind middle of right 

 mantle edge. Genital orifice distant from tentacle, below the ante- 

 rior margin of mantle. Foot with longitudinal grooves, becoming 

 oblique on the sides, the foot margin moderate, pedal furrows deep, 

 meeting in a very conspicuous, subtriangular, posteriorly guttered 

 tail pit. Sole rather indistinctly tripartite, the areas not defined by 

 longitudinal grooves. Jaw with coarse ribs. 



Radula with the usual tricuspid central and bicuspid lateral 

 teeth, ectocones small ; marginals with very long, oblique cusps, the 

 ectocone minute or vestigial. 



Intestinal tract (PI. XI, fig. 33) much as in Ariolimax. G 1 in- 

 distinctly divided into crop and stomach, making a half revolution ; 

 G 2 describing a complete revolution in the opposite direction, G 3 

 another, reversed, and G 4 still another revolution parallel to G 2 . 

 Posterior loop formed by G 3 and G 4 lying behind that formed by 

 G 1 and G 2 , as in Ariolimachm generally. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



Genital system (PI. XII, figs. 44-48) having a well developed 

 penis with terminal retractor and epiphallus, lumen with plicate 

 walls (fig. 45), and a large apical penis papilla (figs. 45, 46). 

 Atrium hearing a vermiform appendicula with swollen base (fig. 44 

 ap ; fig. 47, ap). Spermatheca borne on a short, basally swollen duct. 

 Spermatophores (fig. 43, x H) cbitinous, elongate, with flagellum- 

 like extension at one end. Ovotestis separated from albumen gland, 

 lying on the right side under G 3 , to the right of posterior end of 

 stomach (PI. XI, fig. 33, ot.). 



Muscle system (PI. XIV, fig. 71) Ariolimacine in having the re- 

 tractors converging posteriorly, their proximal insertions contigu- 

 ous ; buccal retractor deeply bifurcate. No " retensor." Penis 

 retractor short, broad, inserted in the left anterior portion of the 

 lung floor or diaphragm (fig. 71, r.p.). 



Lung as usual ; kidney very large (PI. XV, fig. 77, k). Only the 

 ventricle exposed. 



Distribution : Middle portion of California, in the counties lying 

 near and below San Francisco Bay, west of the Sierra Nevada. 



Externally H.espterarion is like Ariolimax and Aphallarion except 

 in the structure of the caudal pore, which is a deep, open pit in this 

 genus, while in the others it is filled by a mass of spongy tissue. 

 The jaw, teeth, intestine, pallial region and musculature of the 

 three genera are practically identical in their main features, except 

 that Hesperarion totally lacks a " retensor" muscle. 



In the genitalia are found further important differences. The 

 ovotestis is not packed adjacent to the albumen gland anteriorly, as 

 in Ariolimax and Aphallarion, but is carried back to a more pos- 

 terior position among the hind loops of the intestine, and surrounded 

 by the liver (PI. XI, fig. 33, ot.). The penis, externally similiar 

 to that of Ariolimax, is of the usual simple structure, not invagi- 

 nated, and the atrium bears an enigmatic organ of unknown func- 

 tion, our ignorance of which is veiled behind the term "appendic- 

 ula." 12 This is wanting in other Arionidce with the exception of 

 Binneya, the most primitive genus of the family. 



The species of Hesperarion are dimorphic, like Ariolimax colum- 

 bianus, having a spotted and an immaculate form. 



12 This convenient term was first used by Dr. von Ihering in his " Morpholo- 

 gie und Systematik des Genitalapparates von Helix." The appendicula in- 

 serted low on the vagina or on the atrium is not homologous with the elon- 

 gated sack found in Panda, Strophocheilus, etc., associated with the spermatheca. 

 The latter probably serves the purpose of an accessory spermatheca. 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



H. niger (J. G. Cooper). PI. IX, figs. 5, 6j PI. XI, fig. 33; PI. XII, figs. 43-48; 

 PI. XIV, fig. 71. 



Ariolimax niger J. G. Cooper, Proc Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1872, p. 147, 

 pi. 3, f. B, 1-4. W. G. Binney, Terr. Moll. V, p. 234, f. 133 (caudal pore) ; 

 pi. v, f. D, F, (teeth.) ; pi. xii, f. F (genitalia) ; Man. Amer. Land Shells, p. 

 100, f. 64; Terr. Moll, v, Third Supplement, Bull. M. C. Z., XIX, no. 4, p. 

 212, pi. v, f. A, I, C, D (external aspect and caudal pore). Cockerell, Ann. 

 Mag. N. H. (6), vi, p. 278, 279. 



Hesperarion niger Simroth, Malak. Blatter (n. F. ), xi, p. 109-119, pi. 1, f. 

 7-14. 



Ariolimax Andersoni J . G. Coop.?, W. G Binney, Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist. N. 

 Y., xi, p. 182, pi. xii, f. 9 (genitalia), pi. xviii, f. G (teeth) ; Terrestr. Moll. 

 V, p. 235, f. 135, 136, pi. xii, f. E (genitalia), pi. v, f. G (teeth). Man. Amer. 

 Land Shells, p. 132, f. 66, 67. Second Suppl. T. M. V, p. 43. Third Suppl. 

 p. 212, pi. v, f. F. Not Arion Andersoni J. G Cooper. 



Exterior: Upper surface (iu alcoholic specimens) smoky brown- 

 black above, slightly lighter gray-black laterally, unicolored or 

 dappled with black ragged spots ; sole gray-black, with black spots 

 scattered along the inner edge of the lateral areas. Integument 

 obliquely longitudinally grooved, not much reticulated. Mantle 

 with the lung pore submedian ; genital orifice some distance behind 

 the right tentacle, caudal pore conspicuously large and deep, with a 

 cleft extending to the tail ; sole indistinctly tripartite. Length (in 

 alcohol) 30-45 mm. 



The genitalia in two individuals dissected show considerable 

 variation. In one, (PI. XII, fig. 44), the penis is large nearly its 

 entire length, constricted at base; this being from a maculated indi- 

 vidual like PI. IX, figs. 5, 6, from Santa Clara, Cal. In the other, 

 a typical niger in coloring, the penis is slender below, swollen 

 above (PI. XII, fig. 47). We hope to receive further specimens 

 and ascertain the limits and significance of variation iu these 

 organs. 



In one specimen (Mus. no. 71,078) there were thirteen spermato- 

 phores (PI. XII, fig. 43) in the spermatheca. 



Jaw with eleven wide ribs. 



Radula agreeing with Ariolimax in the long, oblique cusps of the 

 marginal teeth. 



Cooper's types were from the neighborhood of San Francisco Bay. 

 Specimens are before us from Bolinas, Haywards, Santa Clara, 

 Stevens' Creek Canyon, Santa Cruz range, 900 feet altitude, and 

 near San Jose. Binney gives the localities Santa Rosa, Healds- 

 burg, Sonoma Co.; and for the synonymous Ariolimax Andersoni, 

 mountains of Alameda Co. The general range, therefore, covers 

 the Coast and Bay counties from Sonoma to Santa Cruz. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



Professor Cockerell defines a color-form maculatus as follows : 

 " This much resembles A. hemphilli var. maculatus, but is larger 

 and stouter, and has the lateral areas of the sole marbled as in 

 niger. Two specimens were received from Dr. Cooper, who found 

 them at Haywards, Cal." The maculated form is shown in our 

 figures. It seems more abundant than the spotless slug, but in our 

 series it is difficult to separate the two, as some which appear spot- 

 less often show a few macula? on close examination. 

 H. Hemphilli (W. G. Binney). 



Ariolimax Hemphilli W '. G. Binney, Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist. N. Y., XI, p. 181, 

 pi. xii, f. 7 (genitalia), pi. xviii, f. H (teeth) (1875) ; Terrestr. Moll., V, p. 

 235, f. 134, pi. v, f. H (teeth), pi. xii, f. G (genitalia) ; Man. Amer. Land 

 Shells, p. 102, f. 65. Third Suppl. Terr. Moll., v, p. 212, pi. v, f. G. Cock- 

 erell, Ann. Mag. N. H. (6), vi, p. 278. 



Ariolimax Hemphilli var. maculatus Ckll. in Binney, Third Supplement to 

 Terr. Moll., V, p. 212, pi. v, f. B. 



Since its first publication in 1875, nothing material has been 

 added to our knowledge of this species. Its generic position is un- 

 certain. The desirability of procuring additional specimens in 

 order to place the form upon a better basis will be evident. The 

 type locality is Niles Station, Alameda Co., California. 



Professor Cockerell's color-form maculatus has been figured in 

 Binuey's Third Supplement, but not before described. "Small 

 spotted hemphilli found by Dr. Cooper at Haywards. When alive, 

 as I learn from Dr. Cooper, they are reddish, the spotted variety of 

 niger being gray ; in alcohol, both appear -gray. They agree with 

 hemphilli W. G. B. in the genitalia, and differ also from niger in 

 their more slender form and immaculate sole of foot. Indeed, com- 

 paring them with typical niger, they appear fundamentally distinct 

 in every way, but the var. maculatus of niger is strangely interme- 

 diate — just what one might expect a niger X hemphilli hybrid to 

 be." (Ckll. ms.). 



Genus ARION Ferussac. 



Conspicuous in the European fauna for the number of species 

 and individuals, and for the large size and frequently brilliant col- 

 oring of some forms, this genus is represented in America by one or 

 two species introduced from Europe and still very local in distribu- 

 tion. They have not yet exhibited the tendency to spread charac- 

 teristic of the introduced Limaces. 

 Arion hortensia Fer. PL XV, figs. 79, 82, 83; PI. XIV, fig. 72. 



Numerous specimens of this species were collected in March and 

 April, 1896 near or in a greenhouse in Seattle, Washington, by Mr. 




"240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



P. B. Randolph. A specimen much contracted in alcohol is here 

 figured, with the retractor system and pallial organs. As preserved 

 they measure 15 to 20 mm. in length ; ground-color above dirty 

 ■whitish, with a conspicuous blackish stripe along each side of mantle 

 and of the foot behind it, the back with a broad median bluish or 

 slate-black band, tapering posteriorly, often only faintly indicated ; 

 sole light yellow. 



In other specimens from Poughkeepsie, N. Y., the region between 

 the longitudinal black bauds on mantle and sides is speckled and 

 maculated with black. 



As this species is an immigrant from Europe, where it is well 

 known and has been repeatedly investigated anatomically, we omit 

 a detailed description and synonymy. The coarsely, longitudinally 

 rugose integument, anterior position of the breathing orifice, and 

 posterior position of the genital orifice, below the other, readily dis- 

 tinguish Avion from all native American slugs. 



Arion sp. 



W. G. Binney describes a slug referred by him to Avion fuscus 

 Miiller, from Boston, Mass. Mr. Cockerell considers it likely that 

 the figure in Terrestrial Mollusks, PI. LX1V, fig. 1, (copied in Man. 

 Amer. L. Shells, fig. 502) represents A. subfuscus. Whether more 

 than one species of Avion occurs in America will remain doubtful 

 until further examination of the Bostonian slug can be made. 



Genus PROPHYSAON Bland & Binney, 1873. 



Prophysaon Bland & Binney, Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist. N. Y., X, 1873, p. 293; 

 type P. hemphilli B. & B. Cockerell, Ann Mag. N. H. (6), VI, p. H77-279, 

 and Nautilus XI, p. 77 (key to species). — W. J. Raymond, Nautilus. IV, p 6 

 (mutilation of tail). 



Phenacarion Cockerell, Nautilus III, p. 127 (March, 1890), type Arion 

 foliolatus Gld. The Conchologist II, p. 118. 



Slugs with anterior shield-like mantle in which the flat, non-spiral 

 shell is completely buried, the breathing pore in front of the middle 

 of its right margin ; genital orifice behind and near right tentacle. 

 Foot reticulated, the areolae subdivided (except in ccevuleum) ; the 

 coloration in two or three longitudinal bands on mantle or mantle 

 and foot, or monochromatic. Foot-margin wide, pedal furrows deep, 

 with no noticeable caudal pore (or only a small slit, in P. foliolatum, 

 hardly or not visible in alcoholic specimens). Sole not in the least 

 tripartite. Tail usually showing an oblique constriction at from the 

 posterior third to sixth of the animal's length, marking the place 

 where self-amputation takes place. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



Body cavity extending into the foot, but frequently not to its end ; 

 genital system and gut lying side by side and extending about the 

 same distance backward (PI. XI, fig. 34, P. fasciatum) . 



Jaw weak, flexible; flatly ribbed, plaited or striate. Rachidian 

 teeth tricuspid, laterals bicuspid, the ectocones small ; marginals 

 formed by shortening of the basal-plates, bicuspid, the mesocone 

 moderate or short, ectocone small, occasionally bifid. 



Intestinal tract (PI. XI, figs. 28, P. Andersoni ; fig. 30, P. coeruleum, 

 fig. 32, P. foliolatum, and fig. 34, P. fasciatum) with four well devel- 

 oped sigmoid folds ; no division of G 1 into crop and stomach ; ante- 

 rior loop formed by G 2 and G 3 twisted one-half revolution ; poste- 

 rior loop of G 3 and G 4 long, extending far behind stomach, and 

 twisted less than a complete revolution. 



Genital system (PI. XII, figs. 37-40, and PI. XIII, all figs.) 

 not crowded forward; no penis nor retractor; epiphallus either 

 very stout, cylindrical and fleshy, with minute perforation, or more 

 slender, long and tapering distally ; in either case suddenly narrow- 

 ing near the atrium to a minute duct, which enters the atrium by a 

 short tapering peduncle, in close contact with which the enlarged 

 epiphallus is held by a muscle (seen in fig. 57 of PI. XIII, muse, and 

 fig. 39 of PI. XII). Duct of spermatheca short ; spermatophores as 

 in Hesperarion. Ovotestis (PI. XI, fig. 34 ) lying anterior to the 

 posterior loop of gut, between its upper and lower folds, adjacent 

 to the albumen gland. 



Muscle system (PI. XIV, fig. 70) with the eye retractors inserted 

 at the outer posterior angles of the diaphragm, as in Arion; buccal 

 retractor inserted at the posterior edge of diaphragm to the right of 

 the middle, bifurcate distally. Right eye retractor passing between 

 branches of genitalia. 



Pallial region (PI. XV, fig. 80) much as in Arion; breathing 

 pore, anus and nephridial orifice at the right anterior angle of the 

 pallial cavity ; kidney ring-like, excavated to show both chambers 

 of the heart; other features as usual in the family. 



Distribution : Middle California to British Columbia, eastward 

 in Idaho to the Cceur d'Alene Mts. 



Prophjsaon stands rather isolated in the Arionince. The only 

 native American genus approaching it is Anadenulus, but this differs 

 in several important particulars to be mentioned below. The Pala?- 

 arctic Arion is like Prophysaon in the pallial region, but differs 

 markedly in (1) the removal of the buccal retractor insertion back- 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



ward from the diaphragm edge, (2) the complex twisting of the gut 

 and the posterior position of the stomach (see these Proceedings, 1896, 

 pi. 13, f. 3) ; (3) the simpler form of the epiphallus, and well developed 

 retractor muscles of vagina and spermatheca, and (4) the normally 

 constructed tail. There are various other minor differences ; but upon 

 the whole, the American genus is less divergent than the European 

 from the primitive forms of the family in its musculature, more diver- 

 gent in the tail structure and epiphallus. In Arion, shell reduction 

 has progressed rather further, at least in the typical forms. Geoma- 

 lacus, a lateral branch from the Avion stem, is even more remote from 

 the American genus. The Himalayan genus Anadenus (with which 

 Fischer unites Prophysaon as a subgenus), differs conspicuously in 

 possessing a well developed penis with retractor, and externally in 

 the extreme narrowness of the foot margin and the tripartite sole. 



The self-amputation of the tail in Prophysaon has been described 

 by Henry Hemphill 13 and W. J. Raymond ; u while Simroth has 

 noticed and figured the appearance of the tail in alcoholic specimens 

 before amputation. 



Mr. Raymond writes as follows: " In August, 1888, I collected 

 on one occasion about a dozen examples of Prophysaon Andersoni 

 J. G. Cp., near the San Jose reservoir, above Lexington, Santa 

 Clara County. While taking measurements of the living specimens, 

 before putting them into alcohol, I noticed in several a contraction 

 about two-thirds of the length from the head. This appeared as an 

 indented line completely encircling the body. Upon handling the 

 slugs to examine this phenomenon more closely, the line became 

 deeper and in the case of two of the specimens the tail dropped off, 

 almost as readily as the ray of the so-called 'brittle' starfish." 



Nearly all full grown alcoholic specimens of P. Andersoni, folio- 

 latum and cceruleum show a well defined impressed line around the 

 tail, or occasionally the tail has actually been amputated, as in the 

 specimen of the last-named species figured on Plate IX, figs. 7 to 11. 

 Dissection shows that the body cavity does not extend beyond the 

 point of excision, or but little beyond ; the remainder of the tail 

 being occupied by very spongy vesicular connective tissue. 



We have not seen Prophysaon alive, and observations are still 

 lacking upon some interesting points which could probably be sup- 



13 Nautilus III, p. 126, footnote; Fourth Supplement to Terr. Moll. V, p. 

 1S2 

 14 Nautilus IV, p. 7. 




1898.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



plied by keeping slugs in captivity. Does regeneration of the lost 

 member take place, and if so, is the renewed tail structurally like 

 the amputated one, or does loss of the tail result eventually in 

 death ? What animals persecute Prophysaon f Observations upon 

 these questions might go a long way toward explaining the present 

 utility of tail amputation, though they may not indicate the mode 

 of its origin. Without knowledge of the final consquences of am- 

 putation to the slug, or what its natural enemies are, speculation 

 upon tail excision is idle. In an analogous case now well known, 

 that of Helicarion in the Philippine Islands, Semper 15 states that 

 every species he examined " possessed the singular property, which 

 many lizards have — particularly the Geckos — of shedding their tail 

 when they are seized somewhat roughly at a little way behind the 

 shell. This they do by whisking the tail up and down with extra- 

 ordinary rapidity, almost convulsively, till it drops off; if the creat- 

 ure is held by the tail, it immediately falls to the ground, where it 

 easily hides among the leaves. If it is laid flat on the hand, the 

 rapid wagging movement is strong enough to raise the body with a 

 spring into the air, so that it falls over on to the ground. These 

 snails at first constantly escaped me and my collectors in this way, 

 and not unfrequently we had nothing but the tail left in our hands. 

 According to Guilding's observations the same peculiarity of part- 

 ing with the hinder prolongation of the foot characterizes the West 

 Indian snail Stenopus. I ascertained by further investigation that 

 in a free state of nature such self-mutilation not unfrequently occurs, 

 for about a hundred specimens of Helicarion gutta, which is ex- 

 tremely common in the north-east of Luzon, I found, perhaps, ten in- 

 dividuals that had shed their tails, or, to speak more accurately, the 

 hinder end of the foot, and had the stumps partly healed, or the foot 

 to some extent grown again. Now, this hinder portion of the foot 

 is the most conspicuous part of the snail's body, and it may be sup- 

 posed that it is, in most cases, the part first seized by the reptiles or 

 birds that prey upon them ; but, startled by the escape of the body, 

 they would soon learn to recognize, by the form of the tail, those 

 species which were capable, by this self-amputation, of depriving 

 them of the larger and probably the only valuable portion of the 

 prey. In this way the species of the genus Helicarion can escape 

 the pursuit of their enemies better than they otherwise could on 

 account of their exposed mode of life." 



15 Animal Life, Chapter XII. 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Whether Seruper's plausible supposition be held to sufficiently ex- 

 plain the self-mutilation of Helicarion or not, it seems to us that the 

 slowness of the process of amputation in Prophysaon precludes the 

 idea that it is a means of escape from birds, which, in any case, are 

 as likely to seize the slug by the head or middle as by the tail. If 

 molluscan foes are in question, the time consumed in amputation is 

 of less moment; and it might be worth while to imprison Prophys- 

 aon with Circinaria (alias Selenites and Macrocyclis), which is the 

 most rapacious snail of the West Coast. The suggestion is offered 

 for what it may be worth ; and the whole subject referred to the 

 enterprising and enthusiastic naturalists of the West for observation 

 and experiment. 



The species of Prophysaon fall into three very distinct groups, 

 two of them containing but one species each, the other including P. 

 Andersoni Coop, (plus Hemphilli B. & B., Padficum and flavum 

 Ckll.), and P. folio latum Gld. (including Phenacarion Hemphilli W. 

 G. B.). As the synonymy indicates, these two species are excessively 

 variable. In the case of Andersoni a great extent of territory is in- 

 habited by the several forms and typical form of the species, and 

 much more extensive series than we have yet seen must be brought 

 together before a final decision upon the limits of variation, and the 

 definable subspecies if any exist, can be made. Our study of them 

 is based wholly upon alcoholic slugs, gathered from localities hun- 

 dreds of miles apart; and it is to be expected that richer collections 

 may modify, and certainly will amplify, the conclusions reached. 



Our general results so far as synonymy is concerned, do not differ 

 radically from those attained by Professor Cockerel], whose synopsis 

 of the species is given below. 16 



16 " (1). Epiphallus stout, sausage-shaped. A pale dorsal stripe. 



a. Ochreous species, P. Padficum (vac\- JlavumY 



b. Grayish species, . . . . P. Andersoni (inch Hemphilli). 

 " (2). Epiphallus banana shaped, but tapering at the end. No pale dorsal 



stripe, . . P- ccBruleum (Epiphallus rather slender, flattish, 

 tapering, somewhat curved. Shell 2 mm. long, narrow, white, 

 shiny).' 

 '(3) Epiphallus slender, gradually tapering to a point. Body with a 

 blackish dorsal band. 



a. Jaw ribbed P. fasciaium. 



b. Jaw only striate, . . . P. humile. (Until more material 

 of Aumi/eis seen, it cannot be made sure that the jaw-character 

 is a specific one.) " 



For some further details of Professor Cockerell's views, see A r atitilus, Nov. 

 1897, pp. 77-79. The "banana" or "sausage" shape of the epiphallus we 

 find to be a variable character, not constant specifically. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



Key to species of Prophysaon (alcoholic specimens). 



a. Surface with coarse diamond-meshed reticulation, the meshes 

 finely subdivided ; mantle banded or spotted ; foot-margin 

 moderate or wide. 



b. Mantle free about two-thirds of the distance back to 

 breathing orifice (PI. X, fig. 17). Epiphallus stout, 

 cylindrical, bluntly rounded at both ends; vas deferens 

 extremely long, convoluted in a snarl; usually a pale 

 dorsal line on the tail ; jaw coarsely ribbed. 



c. Outer lateral and inner marginal teeth with blunt 

 and rather short cusps. Length 50-80 mm. (in 

 alcohol), the posterior third or more being marked 

 off* by an oblique constriction and subject to self- 

 amputation, P. folio latum. 



c'. Outer lateral and inner marginal teeeth with long, 

 acutely pointed cusps. Length 25-35 mm. (in 

 alcohol), the posterior part subject to amputation 



shorter, P. Andersoni. 



b'. Mantle free as far back as the breathing orifice (PI. X, 

 fig. 27). Epiphallus slender, gradually tapering distally ; 

 vas deferens not elongated ; back with a wide red or pale 

 area enclosing a darker median band, and bounded on 

 each side by dark lateral bands, or entire slug dusky; 

 jaw closely, finely plaited or striated, 



P. humile and var. fasciatum. 



a'. Surface longitudinally closely grooved above, obliquely and 



less closely so at the sides, the grooves occasionally joined by 



short transverse lines ; foot- margin very narrow, P. cozruleum. 



P. Andersoni (J. G. Cooper). PI. X, figs. 18-22 ; PI. XI, fig. 28, 29 , PL XIII, figs. 



59-62; PL XVI, figs. 92, 93. 



Arion ? Andersonii J . G. Cooper, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1872, p. 148, 

 pi. 3, f. F, 1-5. 



Not "Prophysaon Andersoni J '. G. Cooper," W G. Binney, Second Supple- 

 ment to T. M., V, p. 42 (= P. fasciatum). 



Prophysaon Andersoni J. G. Cooper, W. G. Binney, Third Supplement to 

 Terr. Moll., V, p. 208, pi. iii, f. 1, pi. vii, f. C; pi. i, f. 3 (dentition), pi. ix, 

 f. I, J (surface reticulation). Fourth Supplement, p. 179. 



Prophysaon Andersoni J. G. Cooper, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc, 1879, p. 288. 

 Cockerell, Ann. Mag. N. H. (6), VI, p. 278; Nautilus XI, p. 77, 78 (includes 

 P. Hemphilli). Raymond, Nautilus IV, p. 6. 



Prophysaon Andersoni var. tnarmoratum CklL, The Conchologist II, p. 72. 



P. Andersoni var '. suffusum CklL, The Conchologist II, p. 118. 



Prophysaon Hemphilli Bland & Binn., Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., X, p. 295, 

 pi. xiii, exclusive of fig. 5 (external view, shell, jaw, teeth, digestive system and 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



genitalia). W. G. Binney, Terrestr. Moll., V, p. 238, f. 137, 138, 139, pi. v, 

 f. 1 (teeth), pi. xii, f. H (genitalia), "specimens from Mendocino County" 

 excluded. Man. Amer. Land Shells, p. 105, f. 68, 69, 70. Third Supplement 

 to T. M., V, p. 208, pi vii, f. D. Simroth, Nova Acta Acad. Cres. Leop.- 

 Carol. Germ. Nat. Cur., LVI, 1891, p. 362, pi. 7, f. 5-8 (full account of anat- 

 omy). Taylor, The Ottawa Naturalist III, p. 90. 



Prophysaon pacificum Cockerell, Nautilus III, p. Ill (Feb., 1890); V, p. 

 31 ; XI, p. 77 (includes fiavum). W. G. Binney, Third Supplement to T. M. 



V, p. 210, pi. vii, f. B. F. H. 



Prophysaon flavum Cockerell, Nautilus III, p. 111. Ann. Mag. N. H. (6), 



VI, p. 278, 279, as var. of pacificum. W. G. Binney, Third Suppl., p. 210, 

 pi. vii, f. K. 



Prophysaon Andersonii var ■. pallidum Ckll., Nautilus V, p. 31. 



Length in alcohol 25-35 mm. Upper surface buff-gray or whit- 

 ish flesh colored, with irregular blackish diamond venation and 

 sometimes suffused with purplish-black, showing a pale dorsal line; 

 the mantle yellowish, with two curved lateral black stripes, with or 

 without scattered marbling; sole pale buff or dirty white ; foot-mar- 

 gin pale ; below and anterior to mantle whitish. Integument with 

 rather coarse diamond venation, the areolae subdivided into minute 

 polygonal granules. 



Shell oval, with moderately consistent calcareous layer. 



Genitalia (PI. XIII, figs. 59, 60, 61): Epiphallus'cylindric, 

 straight or sometimes curved, with an abrupt basal constriction, 

 kink and peduncle secured by a short muscle, as described above. 

 Vas deferens very long, its length measured from end to the abrupt 

 bend at the atrium being about 7 times the length of the epiphallus ; 

 thrown into a complicated snarl. Spermatheca globose or oval, on 

 a rather slender duct. Vagina long. Free oviduct short. Ovotestis 

 showing externally a compact mass of rounded follicles. Right 

 eye retractor passing between branches of genitalia. 



Measurements of several specimens are as follows : a (Mus. no. 

 69,010, Oakland, Cal.), length of swollen epiphallus 9 mm.; length 

 of extended vas deferens, from apex of the epiphallus to base of 

 same 64 mm.; b (same locality), epiphallus 5, v. d. 36 mm.; c (Port- 

 land, Ore.) epiphallus 5.5, v. d. 37 ram. 



Jaw (PI. XVI, fig. 92, specimen from San Juan I.) arcuate with 

 about 15 well-defined ribs, denticulating the basal margin. 



Radula with 44-1-44 teeth ; rachidian tricuspid, laterals bicuspid, 

 the ectocones quite small ; marginals with moderately long, pointed 

 mesocones and minute ectocones (PI. XVI, fig. 93, two outer lateral, 

 and a group of marginal teeth). 



Alcoholic P. Andersoni varies in general tone from a smoky lead 

 color above to reddish with black marbling or suffusion, mantle light 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



•dirty buff, or yellow, variously marked. Very rarely the two 

 curved black stripes on the mantle are wanting, and occasional 

 specimens fail to show the pale dorsal line, which in others is very 

 •conspicuous. We fail, however, to find internal characters permit- 

 ting the division of our series into several species ; and while it is 

 possible that some of the named forms may be geographic subspecies, 

 we are disposed to regard them rather as local variations of but 

 slight rank and uncertain diagnosis. Large series from many local- 

 ities must be collected and compared to define the subspecies, if any 

 exist. 



It differs chiefly from P. foliolatum in being smaller, with very 

 much shorter " amputateable " tail segment, and in dentition. 



Simroth found a very long, smooth, vermiform spermatophore in 

 P. AndersonL 



Santa Clara Co. (Ehrhorn, Raymond) around San Francisco Bay 

 (Cooper, Button, et at 7 .), California ; Portland (Malone), Forest 

 Grove and Astoria (Hemphill), Oregon ; Kalama, Chehalis, Port 

 Townsend and San Juan Island (Hemphill), "Washington ; Van- 

 couver Island ( Wickham, Taylor); Old Mission, Lake Cceur d'Alene, 

 Idaho (Hemphill). 



There is considerable variation in the shape and size of the epi- 

 phallus, even among specimens of similar size and external appear- 

 ance, collected at the same time at one locality. Thus, in one spec- 

 imen of a small series from San Juan Island, the epiphallus is 4£ 

 mm. long, and straight (fig. 61) ; while in another it measures 7 mm. 

 and is curved (fig. 59). The extremes in a larger series from Oak- 

 land, Cal., are : shortest, 5 mm. long, straight ; longest 8 mm. long, 

 curved. After vainly trying to correlate the variations of the 

 epiphallus with other characters, with a view to defining two or more 

 species, we are compelled to conclude that they are largely individ- 

 ual, possibly to some extent functional, but that these variations are 

 not in any sense characteristic of races or species. Of course the 

 observations were made upon sexually mature individuals. 17 



Of the several forms included in the above synonymy, it is now 

 generally admitted that P. Hemphilli is a synonym of P. Andersoni. 

 Professor Cockerell 18 has stated his opinion that P.flavum, described 



17 Mr. Cockerell's division of Prophysaon into forms with the epiphallus 

 '' sausage-shaped " and those with it " banana-shaped ' ' is therefore not a spe- 

 cific criterion according to our observations. 



18 Nautilus, XI, p. 77, Nov., 1897. 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



from Gray's Harbor, Washington, is to be included in P. pacificum. 

 There are all possible intergradations between the ochreous and 

 grayish forms in P. Andersoni and P. folio latum. 



In P. pacificum we fail to see any specific characters. The color- 

 ation agrees well with specimens of undoubted P. Andersoni from 

 Washington, and neither the measurements nor the dentition offer 

 differential characters, so far as we can see. The types were col- 

 lected by Mr. Wickham, near Victoria, Vancouver Island. 



P. foliolatum (Gould). PI. X, figs. 15, 16, 1 7 ; PI. XI, fig. 32 ; PI. XIII, figs. 55, 56, 

 57, 58; PI. XIV, fig. 70 ; PI. XV, fig. SO ; PI. XVI, figs. 90/ 9S. 



Arion foliolatus Gould, Moll. U. S. Expl. Exped., p. 2, PI. I, f. 2a, b (1852); 

 Binney. Terr. Moll , II, p. 30. PL 66, f. 2 (1851 ). Copied by subsequent writ- 

 ers. W. G. Binney, Second Supplement to Terr. Moll., V, p. 206, PL viii, 

 f. A, B, PL ix, f. B. C, D. 



Phenacarion foliolatus CklL, Nautilus., iii, p. 127 (March, 1890); Ann. 

 Mag. N. H. (6). VI, pp. 278, 279; W. G. Binney, Fourth Supplement, p. 181. 



Arion foliatus W. G. Binney, Proc Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1858, p. 197. 



Arion foliolatus var. Hemphilli W. G. Binney, Third Supplement, T. M. V, 

 p. 208, PL viii, f. C; ix, f. H (genitalia). Cockerell, Nautilus III, p. 126 

 (March, 1890). 



Phenacarion Hemphilli W- G. Binney, Fourth Supplement toT. M. V, p. 183 

 (not Prophysaon Hemphilli Bid. & Binn.). 



Length (in alcohol) 50-80 mm. Rather slender, the posterior 

 third (or more) often distinctly more attenuated, defined by an ob- 

 lique groove. Mantle oblong, its length contained 2f to o\ times in 

 the total length of body, the breathing orifice decidedly in front of 

 the middle. Foot margin rather wide; wrinkles of the sole corres- 

 ponding to vertical grooves of the foot margin, bending backward 

 and meeting in the middle ; pedal groove deep, with no noticeable 

 caudal pore. 



Colors variable : (1) Back clear reddish-fawn with a lighter dor- 

 sal band, sometimes obsolete, the mantle with the usual two curved 

 black lateral stripes, with or without scattered macula? ; becoming 

 paler, light yellowish on the sides and sole; or (2) back reddish, 

 suffused with black, mantle bands long, often with a third median 

 band and scattered maculae, foot with the principal veins of the 

 reticulation black-pigmented, as are alternate grooves of the foot 

 margin ; sides paler, gray ; sole yellowish. 



Surface with deeper oblique grooves connected by short longi- 

 tudinal grooves to form a roughly diamond-shaped reticulation, the 

 meshes of which are minutely subdivided. 



Shell very delicate, membranous, with a thin and incoherent 

 layer of calcareous granules. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



Jaw (PI. XVI, fig. 98) strong, opaque, with 8-14 wide flattened 

 ribs. 



Radula with 44-1-44 teeth. Centrals tricuspid, laterals bicus- 

 pid, the ectocones small. Marginals formed by shortening of the 

 basal-plates, having the mesocone short, ectocone simple or on some 

 teeth bifid (PI. XVI, fig. 90). 



Epiphallus stout, cylindric, curved, with the usual constriction, 

 peduncle and muscle at base. Vas deferens extremely long, elabor- 

 ately twisted and tangled. Vagina long, the spermatheca duct 

 about as long as the spermatheca. Albumen gland very large, long 

 and tongue-shaped. Ovo-testis a very compact mass showing exter- 

 nally only the rounded-polygonal ends of the closely packed folli- 

 cles. In two typical individuals from Seattle (Mus. no. 71,072) the 

 measurements are : a (fig. 55), length of swollen epiphallus 12.5 

 mm., of extended vas deferens from summit of epiphallus to base of 

 same 92 mm. ; of albumen gland 28 mm. ; length of animal 80 mm. 

 b (fig. 57), length of epiphallus 14 mm.; of vas deferens 114 mm. 

 The ratio of length of epiphallus to that of vas deferens as measured 

 above is about 1 : 71 or 8. The original of fig. 58 is a small speci- 

 men, perhaps not fully adult. 



Type locality, Discovery Harbor, Puget Sound (Pickering). Also 

 occurs at Olympia (Hemphill), Seattle (Hemphill, Randolph), and 

 doubtless throughout the Puget Sound region generally. 



P. foliolatum is very closely allied to P. Andersoni Coop. It is 

 larger, more elongated, with the solid portion of the tail, or that sub- 

 ject to amputation, longer in proportion than in Andersoni. In 

 living specimens a mucous pore is visible at the tail, but this is not 

 noticeable externally in alcoholic examples. The light dorsal line 

 is occasionally indistinguishable. 



The jaw forms probably intergrade with P. Andersoni; but the 

 teeth differ quite perceptibly in the shorter, blunter cusps of the 

 outer laterals and inner marginals. This is one of the best specific 

 characters. 



The form described by Binney as Phenacarion Hemp hi Hi does 

 not seem to offer sufficiently tangible points of difference from folio- 

 latum to stand as a species, even were the name not preoccupied. 

 It is said to be " more slender and more pointed at the tail than 

 foliolatus. The body is a bright yellow with bluish-black reticula- 

 tions. The edge of the foot and the foot itself are almost black. 

 Shield irregularly mottled with fuscous. The body also is irregu- 



17 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



larly mottled with fuscous, and has one broad fuscous band down 

 the center of the back, spreading as it joins the mantle, with a nar- 

 rower band on each side of the body. It loses its color on being 

 placed in spirits, becoming a uniform dull slate color. Mantle 

 lengthened oval. Shell-plate represented by a group of calcareous 

 grains concealed in the mantle ; it is impossible to remove it as one 

 shell-plate. A decided caudal pore." The jaw and dentition are 

 as in folio latum. Genitalia much as in foliolatum, but Binney found 

 the albumen gland to be much shorter, less tongue-shaped and 

 brown-tipped. The epiphallus tapers distally, instead of contract- 

 ing abruptly. 



Localities : Gray's Harbor and Chehalis, Washington. 



The only characters of importance are the dorsal band, which 

 seems to be similar to P. fasciatum, and the tapering epiphallus, also 

 a character of that species, if not, in this case, an indication of sex- 

 ual immaturity. Mr. Cockerell considers it a synonym of foliolatum ; 

 and, as we have seen no authentic specimen, and the name is, in any 

 case, preoccupied, we consider it best to leave the form as a syno- 

 nym of foliolatum, pending further information. 



In a series from Cascade Springs, on the Columbia River near 

 the Government locks, collected in October, 1897 by Mr. J. G. 

 Maloue, (PI. XIII, fig. 54) the epiphallus is shorter, not curved, the 

 vas deferens also much shorter. The spermatheca is subglobular. 

 Measurements : length of epiphallus 8.6 mm. ; of extended vas 

 deferens from apex of the epiphallus to the abrupt curve at base of 

 same, 42 mm. ; of albumen gland 13 mm. ; length of animal 50 mm. 

 As measured above, the epiphallus is about one-fifth the length of 

 the vas deferens. In typical foliolatum it is about one-eighth, in 

 Andersoni one-seventh. These specimens are (in alcohol) less ver- 

 miform than typical foliolatum, with paler color, back including 

 shield, reddish, fading on the sides ; mantle striped as usual, but 

 blackish stripes defining the dorsal pale stripe either very faint or 

 lacking, so that in some individuals no pale dorsal line is visible. 



Thejaw in this form (PI. XVI, fig. 89) resembles that of P. Ander- 

 soni in the numerous ribs. Radula with long, pointed mesocones on 

 outer lateral and inner marginal teeth, as in P. Andersoni. In 

 typical P. foliolatus the corresponding teeth are shorter and blunter. 



This will probably prove to be a distinct subspecies, and re- 

 ferable to P. Andersoni rather than to foliolatum. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



P. humile Cockerell. PI. XVI, fig. 97. 



Prophysaon humile Cockerell, Nautilus, iii, p. 112 (February 1890), Ann. 

 Mag. N. H. (6), VI, p. 277, 279. W. G. Binney, Third Suppl., p. 211, PI. 

 ViL figs. E, G, L, M. 



We do not consider P. humile 19 specifically distinct from fasciatum. 



The coloration, genitalia and teeth are practically identical, and the 



character of the jaw (PI. XVI, fig. 97) does not seem to be constant. 



Several specimens selected at random from our series of fasciatum 



from Seattle have a jaw neither plaited or ribbed, but densely, 



irregularly striated. We cannot find any other differences between 



these specimens and the ordinary fasciatum with flat-ribbed or 



plaited jaw. The name humile has precedence over fasciatum and 



if the two forms prove to be, as we think, specifically identical, 



fasciatum will be reduced to varietal rank. 



P. fasciatum Cockerell. PI. X, figs. 23-27 ; PL XI, fig. 34; PI. XII, figs. 37-40; 

 PL XVI, figs. 91, 94-96. 



Prophysaon fasciatum Cockerell in Binney, Third Supplement to Terr. Moll., 

 V, p. 209, pi. vii.f. A (May, 1890). W. G. Binney, Fourth Supplement, p. 

 180, Cockerell, Ann. Mag. N. H. (6), VI, p. 278, 279. 



Prophysaon Hemphilli, ''specimen from Mendocino County," W. G. Binney, 

 Terr. Moll., V, p. 239, pi. xii, f. I. 



Prophysaon Andersoni J. G. C. , W. G. Binney, Second Supplement, p. 42. 



Prophysaon fasciatum var. obscurum Ckll. The Conchologist II, p. 119 

 (Chehalis, Wash.) 



Length (in alcohol) 25-35 mm., rarely as much as 50 mm. Gen- 

 eral form and surface reticulation as in P. Andersoni. Color ex- 

 tremely variable : (1) Whitish-buff, (2) bluish-gray, or (3) red on 

 the back, gray-buff at the sides, always with two conspicuous black 

 stripes (well- or ill-developed) along the sides behind the mautle, 

 defining a wide, wedge-shaped ligbt dorsal area, which encloses a 



19 The original description is as follows : " Prophysaon humile Cockerell — 

 Length (in alcohol) lrj.V mill. Body above and mantle smoke-color, obscured 

 by bands. Mantle wrinkled, and having a broad dorsal and two lateral black- 

 ish bands, reducing the ground-color to two obscure pale subdorsal bands. 

 Length of mantle 7 mill., breadth 5i mill. Respiratory orifice 2| mill, from 

 anterior border. Body subcylindrical, somewhat tapering, rather blunt at 

 end. Distance from posterior end of mantle to end of body 8 mill. Back 

 with a blackish band reaching a little more than half its length, and lateral 

 darker blackish bands reaching its whole length. Reticulations distinct, 

 " foliated." Sole strongly transversely striate-grooved, but not differentiated 

 into tracts. Jaw pale, strongly striate, moderately curved, not ribbed. Lin- 

 gual membrane long and narrow. Teeth about 35-1-35. Centrals tricuspid, 

 laterals bicuspid, marginals with a large point, and one (sometimes two) small 

 outer points. Liver pale chocolate. 



Found by Mr. A. F. Wickham under the bark of rotten logs in the woods 

 around Lake Co?ur d'Alene, Idaho, 1889. 



In its reticulations and general characters this species resembles P. Ander- 

 soni, of which it is possibly a variety." 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



similarly shaped dark stripe running backward from the mantle, 

 sometimes well-defined, sometimes faint. Mantle buff or red, with 

 two curved lateral black bands (sometimes obsolete) and scattered 

 black maculation or marbling. Shell rectangularly oblong, 2 or 3 

 mm. long. 



Epiphallus slender, long, and tapering dlstally, having an abrupt 

 kink at base, secured by a short muscle, as usual in the genus. 

 Vas deferens neither lengthened nor convoluted. Vagina apparently 

 functional as a penis. Spermatheca globose or oval, on a short, stout 

 duct which is directly continued into the vagina. Free oviduct 

 short and slender. Ovo-testis a rather loose bunch of oval follicles 

 (fig. 38). Albumen gland unusually hard and brittle. The right 

 eye retractor passes between the branches of genitalia. 



In one specimen (PL XII, fig. 37) there seems to be a glandular 

 enlargement of one side of the base of the epiphallus with a small 

 tubercle on the other side. This may be pathologic. 



Jaw (PL XVI, figs. 94-96) arcuate with a slight median projec- 

 tion below, covered with flat, narrow, crowded ribs separated by 

 very narrow, shallow intervals, or with flat, slightly imbricated 

 plaits (or merely densely, irregularly striated vertically in form 

 humile, see above.) 



Radulawith 35-1-35 teeth. Centrals tricuspid ; laterals lacking 

 the entocone ; marginals formed by union of ectocone with mesocone 

 and shortening of the basal-plate. The cusps are short throughout. 

 The change from laterals to marginals is so gradual that it is prac- 

 tically impossible to draw a line between them. On some outer 

 marginals the ectocone is bifid. The figure shows a central with 

 one lateral and a group of three inner marginals. 



Well and constantly distinguished from P. Andersoni and folio- 

 latum externally by the wide, light dorsal area enclosing a darker 

 median stripe, and bounded laterally by blackish bands. Inter- 

 nally, the slender, tapering epiphallus and short vas deferens are 

 even more characteristic. The scarlet color of the back, noticed by 

 Cockerell in some specimens, is not accidental, but of common occur- 

 rence. 



In form the species varies (in alcohol) from a long, vermiform 

 shape to about the contour of P. Andersoni. 



The body-cavity extends nearly to the end of the tail. Self- 

 excision of the tail occurs, but the amputated portion is short, as in 

 P. Andersoni, and the great majority of individuals we have seen 

 show no oblique constriction of the tail. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



P. coeruleum Cockerell. PI. IX, figs. 7-11 ; PI. XI, fig. 30 ; PI. XIII, figs. 51-53 ; 

 PI. XVI, fig. 86. 



Prophvsaon coeruleum Cockerell, Nautilus, iii, p. 112. Ann. Mag. N. H. 

 (6), VI, p. 278. W. G. Binney, Third Suppl. T. M. V, p. 209, PI. vii, f. 

 I, J. 



P. coeruleum var. dubium Ckll., /. c. ; W. G. Binney, /. c. 



Length (in alcohol) about 15 mm. ; color blue or slate-blue (some- 

 times brown), somewhat paler at the sides. Back with close, deep 

 longitudinal grooves, which, on the sides, become oblique and more 

 spaced, and more anteriorly they radiate vertically below the man- 

 tle ; transverse grooves uniting the longitudinals comparatively few 

 and shallow. Foot-margin very narrow, a second narrow well- 

 defined sub-margin above it. Tail without caudal pore, frequently 

 self-amputated and leaving a conspicuous longitudinal slit (PI. IX, 

 fig. 7, and figs. 9-11, the excised portion). 20 



Genitalia (PI. XIII, fig. 51-53) somewhat as in P. Andersoni. 

 The epiphallus is short ; in one of the original specimens from Olym- 

 pia (PI. XIII, figs. 52, 53) very short, truncated at the ends ; in 

 another specimen from Seattle (PI. XIII, fig. 51) it is oblong ; vas 

 deferens tangled, but shorter than in Andersoni. Spermatheca 

 globular, on a rather slender duct, which is short in the Olympian 

 specimen, longer in that from Seattle. 



Radula about as in P. fasciatum ; the cusps of outer lateral and 

 inner marginal teeth rather short ; marginals quite wide (PI. XVI, 

 fig. 86). 



Type locality, Olympia, Washington (Hemphill). In addition to 

 part of Hemphill's original lot, we have received it from Seattle (P. 

 B. Randolph) and Portland, Oregon (J. G. Malone). Mr. Ran- 

 dolph writes that "it occurs solitary in dark fir woods under damp 

 logs. Color in life a brighter shade of blue. They do not bear 

 handling. " 



"P. coeruleum is an exceedingly distinct species, distinguished at 

 once by its color and the character of its reticulations." In the lat- 

 ter respect, the species differs from all others of the genus, and re- 



20 The original description from larger specimens than we have seen, is as fol- 

 lows : '' Length in (alcohol) 22A- mill., in motion 43 mill. Body and mantle 

 clear blue -gray, paler at sides, sole white. Mantle finely granulated, broad, 

 without markings. Length of mantle 7 mill.. breadth 5 mill. Respiratory 

 orifice 2J mill, from anterior border. Body subcylindrical, tapering, pointed. 

 ( In one specimen eaten off at the end. ) Distance from posterior end of man- 

 tle to end of body lOf mill. The reticulations take the form of longitudinal 

 equidistant lines, occasionally joined by transverse lines, or coalescing. Sole 

 not differentiated into tracts. Jaw pale, strongly ribbed. Liver white. Mr. 

 Binney sends me colored drawings of the living animal ; the neck is long and 

 white, or very pale." 




254 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



sembles Ariolimax. The very uarrow foot-margin, with an unusu- 

 ally distinct border above, is another distinguishing feature. 



Most of the specimens we have seen have lost the end of the tail 

 by self-amputation, as shown in the figures. When perfect the tail 

 is pointed, with no perceptible mucous pore ; the longitudinal 

 grooves of the back become irregular near the end of the tail. The 

 color of Portland and Seattle specimens is distinctly blue, but some 

 of the original lot from Olvmpia, collected about eight years ago, 

 have become brown. Mr. Cockerell thus describes a variegated 

 form which he refers to cceruleum as a variety : — 



" Prophysaon cceruleum var. dublum. Length (in alcohol) 8 mill. 

 Length of mantle, 4 mill. Distance from posterior end of mantle to 

 end of body 3£ mill. Mantle broad, with four bands composed of 

 coalesced black marbling, very irregular in shape, and running 

 together anteriorly. Body dark, tapering. Sole pale, its edges 

 gray. Liver white. With the P. cceruleum is a small dark slug, prob- 

 ably a variety of it, but differing as described above. It will easily 

 be distinguished by its blackish color and the peculiar markings on 

 the mantle." 



There are, in some specimens, very close, fine, superficial im- 

 pressed vertical lines crossing the deeper oblique grooves. 



Genus ANADENULUS Cockerell, 1890. 

 Anademdus Ckll., Ann. Mag. N. H. (6), VI, p. 279 (Oct., 1890). 



Slugs with the minute, non-spiral shell plate wholly buried ; the 

 mantle small, rounded and anterior, with breathing pore median on 

 the right side. Genital orifice below right tentacle. Foot reticu- 

 late, somewhat keeled posteriorly, the foot-margin moderate, pedal 

 grooves rising slightly at tail, with no caudal pore there ; sole dis- 

 tinctly tripartite, the areas separated by longitudinal grooves, mid- 

 dle field narrower than side fields (PI. IX, fig. 12). 



Body-cavity extending the entire length. Jaw with about 20 

 wide, flat ribs (Binney). Radula with 20-1-20 teeth, about as in 

 Prophysaon in form. 



Intestinal tract (PI. XI, fig. 35) much as in Prophysaon ; posterior 

 loop formed by G 3 and G 4 extending far behind that formed by G 1 

 and G 2 , slightly twisted posteriorly, the folds elsewhere hardly 

 twisted. 



Genital system unknown. 



Muscle system (PI. XIV, fig. 68) as in Prophysaon. Eye retract- 

 ors inserted at the two posterior angles of the diaphragm, the buc- 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



cal retractor at the posterior margin somewhat to the right of the 

 median line, shortly bifurcate distally. 



Pallial region (PI. XV, fig. 75). Kidney large, rounded nearly 

 filling the lung cavity. Ventricle exposed. 



Distribution: San Diego Co., California. 



No adequate discussion of the affinities of Anadenulus can be en- 

 tered upon until well-preserved specimens are collected permit- 

 ting an examination of the genitalia. Present information indicates 

 its proximity to Prophysaon, with which Anadenulus agrees in the di- 

 gestive tract and musculature. But the voluminous kidney, exposing 

 only the ventricle, the conspicuously tripartite sole, and the appar- 

 ent absence of that peculiar structure of the tail which distinguishes 

 Prophysaon, are all important characters indicating the distinctness 

 of the two genera. 



Turning to Old World genera, we find Avion differing in its tail 

 gland, posteriorly prolonged buccal retractor and complexly twisted 

 intestine. Geomalacus shows the same with still other differences ; 

 and in Anadenus the foot margin is very much narrower, the sole 

 not divided by longitudinal grooves, and the intestine is long and 

 spirally twisted. 



A. Cockerelli (Hemphill). PI. IX, figs. 12, 13, 1-1; PL XI, fig. 35; PI. XIV, fig. 

 6S ; PI. XV, fig. 75. 



Anadenus Cockerelli Hemphill, Nautilus, IV, p. 2 (May, 1890), W. G. Bin- 

 ney, Fourth Supplement to Terr. Moll.,V, p. 178, PI. i, f. 1 ; PI, iii, f. 5 (den- 

 tition). 



Anadenulus Cockerelli Cockerell, Ann. Mag. N. H. (6), VI, p. 278, 279 (Oct., 

 1S90). 



Alcoholic specimens have the foot blackish, with a short, light 

 stripe behind the mantle above, the sides below mantle and the head 

 pale ; mantle small, short, black with two festooned longitudinal 

 yellowish stripes. 



Length 9-1 3? mm. 



Cuyamaca Mts., San Diego Co., California (Hemphill). 



IV. BRIEF DIRECTIONS FOR COLLECTING, PRESERVING AND 



EXAMINING SLUGS. 21 



In the Northern States the best time for collecting slugs is in 

 early spring. From February to July, most well grown specimens 



31 As many of our American conchologists have not collected or studied 

 slugs especially, we have thought it not superfluous to append the following 

 notes on collecting slugs, with rough directions for their examination. It 

 will readily be understood that if the slug to be examined is of very small 

 size, or it is necessary to obtain all the data from one or two specimens, more 

 or less radical modifications of these instructions must be made. 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



taken will prove to have the reproductive organs fully developed. 

 Autumn and late summer are a somewhat less favorable time, be- 

 cause the young of the year have then attained the full growth of 

 the species, while upon opening them the genitalia are found un- 

 developed. Still, autumn specimens should be collected. Always 

 date each " catch " and keep it separate. 22 



The best preservative for slugs (and other land mollusks) is alco- 

 hol. Of other preservatives, formalin (formaldehyde) is perhaps the 

 best ; but it is, on the whole, a very unsatisfactory substitute, ren- 

 dering the tissues tough and slippery, difficult to dissect, and gener- 

 ally destroying calcareous organs in time. Formalin specimens are, 

 moreover, inferior to alcoholic for histological study. Upon the 

 whole, then, formalin should only be used as a permanent preserva- 

 tive for large slugs, if at all, and then in a three or four p. c. solu- 

 tion. It should be added, however, that when travelling with limited 

 means of conveyance, it is often convenient to use formalin on ac- 

 count of the economy of carrying it in the commercial strength, to 

 be diluted as occasion arises. Never crowd snails in formalin ; the 

 bulk of the solution should exceed that of the snails six or eight 

 times. 



After collecting slugs they should be drowned by placing in a 

 vessel of water with a lid laid on (not a cork pushed in) to exclude 

 air. Generally twelve hours is a sufficient time, but this depends 

 upon the slugs and the temperature. In hot weather less time is 

 required. Test them by taking one out, touching it with alcohol, 

 and if no retraction takes place they are ready to be transferred to 

 25% alcohol; 23 leave in this about twelve hours, then transfer to 

 50%, and after twenty-four hours or more to about 75%, in which 

 they may be permanently kept. 



If formalin is used, the slugs may be placed in the 3 or 4% solu- 

 tion when drowned, and changed to fresh solution after a few days, 

 the first being thrown away. Formalin specimens may at any time 

 be transferred to alcohol, or it may be used with a small percent, of 

 alcohol. 



22 Of course, for economy of space and alcohol, all the lots of one species 

 may be kept in one jar, each in a separate vial or piece of cheesecloth. 



23 Of course, in field work the exact proportion is not vital. In general, it 

 is best to use a mixture of three parts of water to one of alcohol at first, then 

 a half and half mixture, and then the permanent strength. The first and 

 second mixtures may be kept and used repeatedly, occasionally adding a 

 little alcohol to keep up the strength. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



To dissect slugs use a small pan, say 4x6x1* inches, with a layer 

 of blackened wax on the bottom. Only a pair of fine scissors, a 

 pair of fine-pointed tweezers, a small scalpel and a supply of fine 

 pins, with, of course, the small lens usually carried by naturalists, is 

 necessary. Cut the outer integument across the head and along the 

 left side, pin sole down in the pan, with water enough to cover, open 

 by turning the dorsal integument to the right, and cut the rectum 

 where it enters the back. The digestive tract may then be studied 

 by picking awa} 7 the liver, and, with ordinary care, the genitalia 

 may be removed and isolated by cutting out a small area around 

 the genital orifice. After observing its insertion, the penis retractor 

 may be cut. 



If specimens are abundant, use another for the examination of the 

 muscles and pal Hal organs. Open by cutting just above the foot 

 groove all around the body; remove the sole, pin back downward 

 in the dissecting pan and remove the digestive and genital systems, 

 care being taken to break no muscles. The whole retractor system 

 will then be seen, and after study the muscles may be cut and the 

 diaphragm carefully removed, disclosing the kidney, heart and 

 lung, as seen in the figures on Plate XV. 



Use a large slug to begin with, such as Limaxmaximns, the Ario- 

 limaces or Aphallarion, and no difficulty not readily overcome will 

 be encountered. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY. 



Eeferences cited under the several genera and species comprise all or nearly 

 all writings upon American Arionidce. A catalogue of the foreign papers con- 

 sulted in our studies would unnecessarily extend this article, as the literature 

 is given almost in full in one or other of the following papers, which we have 

 found of especial use. 



Godwin- Austen, H. H. Land and Freshwater Mollusca of India, Pt. I, 

 pp. 46-65 (1882). 



Simroth, H. Yersuch einer Naturgeschichte der deutschen Nacht- 

 schnecken und ihrer europiiischen Yerwandten. Zeitschr. f. wissensch. 

 Zool., 1885, pp. 203-366. Bibliography on pp. 359-361. 



Simroth, H. Beitriige zur Kenntniss der Nachtschnecken. Nova Acta k. 

 Leop.-Carol. deutschen Akad. Wissensch., LIY, No. 1, pp. 1-91 (1889). 



Scharff, R. F. The slugs of Ireland. Sci. Trans. Boy. Dublin Society, 

 IV, Ser. 2, pp. 513-562. Bibliography, pp. 557, 558 (1891). 



Simroth, H. Die Nachtschnecken der portugesisch-azorischen Fauna. 

 Nova Acta, etc., LVI, pp. 201-424 (1891). Bibliography on pp. 416-419. 



Cockerkll, T. D. A. Check-List of Slugs. The Conchologist II, p. 158. 



Collinge, W. E. On some European Slugs of the Genus Arion. Proc 

 Zool. Soc. London, 1897, p. 439. 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



DESCRIPTION OF PLATES. 

 Plate IX. 



Figs. 1, 2. Hemphillia glandulosa Bid. & Binn. Dorsal outline 

 and lateral aspect of a specimen from Astoria, Oregon (Hemp- 

 hill, coll.), Mus. no. 71,161. m, mantle; sh, exposed surface of 

 shell. 



Figs. 3, 4. Hemphillia camelus Pils. & Van. Lateral and dorsal 

 aspects of the type specimen. Old Mission, Idaho. Mus. no. 

 63,926. 



Figs. 5, 6. Hesperarion niger (J. G. Coop.). Ventral and lateral 

 aspects of a maculated individual. Santa Clara, Cal. Mus. 

 no. 71,198. 



Figs. 7, 8. Prophysaon cceruleum Ckll. Dorsal and lateral aspects 

 of a specimen which has lost its tail by self-amputation. Olyru- 

 pia, Washington. Mus. no. 63,913. 



Figs. 9, 10, 11. Prophysaon cceruleum Ckll. Lateral, anterior and 

 dorsal aspects of the self-amputated tail of a specimen from 

 Seattle, Washington. No. 71,074. 



Figs. 12, 13, 14. Anadenulus Cockerelli (Hemph.). Ventral, lat- 

 eial and dorsal aspects of one of the original specimens, from 

 Julian City, San Diego Co., California. Mus. no. 63,895. 



Plate X. 



Figs. 15, 16. Prophysaon foliolatus (Gld.). Lateral and dorsal 



views of a typical specimen from Seattle, Washington. Mus. 



no. 71,072. 

 Fig. 17. Prophysaon foliolatus (Gld.) Same specimen, the mantle 



turned backward to show position of its anterior insertion. 

 Figs. 18, 19. Prophysaon Andersoni (J. G. Coop.). Oakland, 



California. Mus. no. 69,010a. 

 Figs. 20, 21, 22. Propthysaon Andersoni (J. G. Coop.), San Juan 



Island, Washington. Mus. no. 63,912. 

 Figs. 23, 24. Prophysaon fasciatum Ckll. Seattle, Washington. 



Collected in March or April, 1896. Mus. no. 68,025. 

 Figs. 25, 26. Prophysaon fasciatum Ckll. Lateral views of two 



individuals from Seattle, Washington. 

 Fig. 27. Prophysaon fasciatum Ckll. Same individual as fig. 26, 



with mantle turned backward to show position of its anterior 



insertion. 



Plate XL 



[All figures represent the digestive tract viewed from above. A. gl., 

 albumen gland; B. d., bile duct; P.m., buccal mass; 6r 1-t , 

 first, second, third and fourth folds of the gut; Gen. or., exter- 

 nal genital orifice ; L, liver ; o. t., ovo-testis ; sp., spermatheca ; 

 T, tail ; ut., uterus ; vag. vagina.] 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



Fig. 28. Prophysaon Andersoni (Coop.). Oakland, Cal. Mus. no. 



69,010a. 

 Fig. 29. Prophysaon Andersoni (Coop.). California. Mus no, 



71,071. Received from W. G. Binney as P. Hemphilli B. & 



Fig. 30. Prophysaon cceruleum Ckll. 



Fig. 31. Binney a notabilis Cooper. Guadalupe Island. Mus.no. 



71,923. 

 Fig. 32. Prophysaon folio latum (Gld.). Seattle, Wash. 



Fig. 33. Hesperarion niger (Cooper). California. Mus. no. 71,- 



078. o. t., ovo-testis ; L, liver, I 7 , tail. 

 Fig. 34. Prophysaon fasciatum Ckll. Seattle, Wash. Mus. no. 



68,026. Salivary glands and anterior portion of liver removed, 



genitalia and digestive tract in situ. 

 Fig. 35. Anadenulus Cockerelli (Hemphill). One of the original 



lot. 

 Fig. 36. Hemphillia camelus Pils. & Van. Old Mission, Idaho. 



Mus. no. 63,926. o. t., ovo-testis. 



Plate XII. 



\_Epi., epiphallus; p. p., penis papilla; r. p. penis retractor; v.d., 



vas deferens]. 

 Fig. 37. Prophysaon fasciatum Ckll. Seattle, Wash. Mus. no. 



68,026a. Perhaps abnormal. 

 Fig. 38. Prophysaon fasciatum Ckll. Same locality. Ovo-testis. 

 Fig. 39. Prophysaon fasciatum Ckll. Same locality. Mus. no. 



68,025. 

 Fig. 40. Same specimen, atrium and base of the epiphallus, the 



binding muscle removed. 

 Fig. 41. Hemphillia camelus Pils. & Van. Type specimen. Mus. 



no. 63,926. 

 Fig. 42. The same, penis opened. 



Fig. 43. Hesperarion niger (Cooper). Spermatophore. 

 Fig. 44. Hesperarion niger (Cooper). Santa Clara, Cal., collected 



Nov. or Dec, 1896. 

 Fig. 45. Hesperarion niger (Cooper). Mus. no. 71,078. Apex of 



penis opened. 

 Fig. 46. The same, side view of penis-papilla. 

 Fig. 47. Hesperarion niger (Cooper). Mus. no. 71,077. 

 Fig. 48. The same. Spermatheca. 

 Fig. 49. Hemphillia grandulosa B. & B. Apex of penis opened, 



showing papilla. 

 Fig. 50. Hemphillia glandulosa B. & B. Lower portion of genital 



system. Astoria, Oregon. 



Plate XIII. 



[/. ov., free oviduct ; muse., muscle connecting atrium and epiphal- 

 lus ; sp., sp. d., spermatheca and its duct ; vag., vagina ; ped., 

 peduncle of the epiphallus.] 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Fig. 51. Prophysaon eoeruleum Ckll. Seattle, Washington. 

 Figs. 52, 53. Prophysaon eoeruleum Ckll. Olympia, Washington. 



The pedicel of epiphallus is seen in fig. 53. 

 Fig. 54. Prophysaon Andersoni (?) var. Cascade Springs, Wash- 

 ington. Mus.no. 71,647. 

 Fig. 55. Prophysaon foliolatum (Gkl.). Seattle, Washington. 



Mus. no. 71,072. Typical form. 

 Fig. 56. The same. Median transverse section of the epiphallus. 

 Fig. 57. Prophysaon foliolatum (Gld.). Another specimen from 



the same locality. 

 Fig. 58. The same, a smaller specimen not mature. 

 Fig. 59. Prophysaon Andersoni (Cooper). Oakland, Cal. Mus. 



no. 69,010. 

 Fig. 60. Prophysaon Andersoni (Cooper). California. Mus. No. 



71,071. Received from W. G. Binney as P. Hemphilli B. & B. 

 Fig. 61. Prophysaon Andersoni (Cooper). Oakland, Cal. Mus. 



no. 69,010. 

 Fig. 62. Prophysaon Andersoni (Cooper). Spermatophore. 



Plate XIV. 



[The retractor muscle systems are all represented as seen from be- 

 neath, ao, aorta ; c. a., cephalic artery ; e. r., eye retractor ; G, 

 intestine ; I. t. r., left tentacle and eye retractor ; ovid. r., re- 

 tractor of the oviduct; p, penis; ph. r, pharynx or buccal re- 

 tractor ; ret., retensor muscle ; r. p., penis retractor ; r. s., rad- 

 ula sack ; r. t. r., right tentacle retractor ; sp. r, retractor of the 

 spermatheca ; t r, tentacle retractor ; vag., vagina ; vag. r., va- 

 ginal retractor ; v. a, visceral artery.] 



Figs. 63, 64, 65. Binney a notabilis Cooper. Guadalupe Island. 

 Ventral and lateral aspects of an alcoholic specimen, and the 

 retractor system. 



Fig. 66. Ariolimax Columbianus (Gld.). 



Fig. 67. Aphallarion Buttoni Pils. & Van. 



Fig. 68. Anadenulus Cocherelli (Hemph.). 



Fig. 69. Hemphillia camelus Pils. & Van. Mus. no. 63,926. 



Fig. 70. Prophysaon foliolatum (Gld.). Mus. no. 71,073. 



Fig. 71. Hesperarion niger (Cooper). Mus. no. 71,078. 



Fig. 72. Arion hortensis Fer. Seattle, Wash. Mus. no. 68,023. 



Plate XV. 



[Pallial organs, seen from below, the diaphragm removed, a, auri- 

 cle ; ao, aorta ; k, kidney ; I, lung; p. a., pulmonary or breath- 

 ing aperture; ph.r., pharynx or buccal retractor muscle; p.v, 

 pulmonary vein ; r, G\ rectum ; r. t r, right tentacle retractor ; 

 ur, secondary ureter ; v, ventricle.] 



Fig. 73. Ariolimax Columbianus (Gld.). Maculated specimen from 

 near Oakland, California. Pallial region from below, with 

 pulmonary net work of the lung roof. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



Fig. 74. The same, showing main ramifications of excretory canals 



in kidney. 

 Fig. 75. Anadenulus Cockerellii (Hemp.). 

 Fig. 76. Aphallarion Buttoni Pils. & Van. 

 Fig. 77. Hesperarion niger (J. G. Coop.). Mus. no. 71,078. 

 Fig. 78. Hemphillia camelus Pils. & Van. 

 Fig. 79. Avion hortensis Fer. Specimen from Seattle, Wash. 



Mus. no. 68,023. 

 Fig. 80. Prophysaon foliolatum (Gld.). Specimen from Seattle. 



Wash. Mus. no. 71,073. 

 Fig. 81. Ariolimax columbianus (Gld.) End of tail, lateral view. 

 Figs. 82, 83. Avion hortensis Fer. Seattle, Washington. 

 Fig. 84. Hesperarion niger (Coop.). Oblique view of end of tail, 



showing pore. 



Plate XVI. 



Fig. 85. Hemphillia camelus Pils. & Van. Central, first lateral, 



and three marginal teeth. 

 Fig. 86. Prophysaon cozruleum Ckll. Group of outermost marginal 



teeth. 

 Fig. 87. Binneya notahilis Coop. Jaw. 

 Fig. 88. Binneya notabilis Coop. Teeth. 

 Fig. 89. Prophysaon Andersoni (Coop.), var. ? Mus. no. 71,647. 



Cascade Springs, Washington. 

 Fig. 90. Proj)hysaon foliolatum (Gld.). Typical form. Central, 



first lateral, and group of marginal teeth. 

 Fig. 91. Prophysaon fasciatum Ckll. Central, first lateral and 



group of marginal teeth. 

 Fig. 92. Prophysaon Andersoni (Coop.). Jaw. San Juan Island. 



Mus. no. 63,912. 

 Fig. 93. Outer marginal and lateral teeth of same individual. 

 Fig. 94. Prophysaon fasciatum Ckll. Jaw. Mus. no. 68,026. 



Seattle, Washington. 

 Fig. 95. Much magnified portion from median part of another 



similar jaw of the same species. 

 Fig. 96. More enlarged basal margin of same. 

 Fig. 97. Prophysaon humile Ckll. Much magnified portion of 



the basal margin of a striated jaw. Seattle, Washington. 

 Fig. 98. Prophysaon foliolatum (Gld.). Jaw. Mus. no. 71,072. 



Seattle, Washington. 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



May 3. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Fifty-three persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



"Notes on Mr. Meehan's paper on the Plants of Lewis and 

 Clark's Expedition across the Continent, 1804-06." By Dr. Elliott 

 Coues. 



"List of Bats collected by Dr. W. S. Abbott in Siani." By 

 Gerrit S. Miller, Jr. 



May 10. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-six persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



"Certain Aboriginal Mounds of the South Carolina Coast." By 

 Clarence B. Moore. 



" Certain Aboriginal Mounds of the Savannah River." By 

 Clarence B. Moore. 



"Certain Aboriginal Mounds of the Altamaha River." By 

 Clarence B. Moore. 



" Recent Acquisitions." By Clarence B. Moore. 



" Environmental and Sexual Dimorphism in Crepidula." By E. 

 G. Conklin. 



May 17. 



Mr. Charles P. Perot in the Chair. 



Thirty-six persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



" Descriptions of five New Phyllostome Bats." By Gerritt S. 

 Miller, Jr. 



" Chitons collected by Dr. Harold Heath at Pacific Grove, near 

 Monterey, Cal." By H. A. Pilsbry. 



"Some New Species of Diatoms." By C. S. Boyer. 



The deaths of Theodore Wernwag, May 1st, and of J. Wain 

 Vaux, May 16th, members were announced. 




1898.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 263 



May 24. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Forty persons present. 



MPv. Charles Morris read a paper on the antiquity of Man 

 from the standpoint of evolution. (No abstract). 



May 31. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-one persons present. 



A paper entitled " Botanical Observations on the Mexican Flora, 

 especially on the Flora of the Valley of Mexico." By J. W. 

 Harshberger, M. D., was presented for publication. 



Papers under the following titles were accepted for publication 

 in the Journal : — 



" Certain Aboriginal Mounds of the South Carolina Coast." By 

 Clarence B. Moore. 



" Certain Aboriginal Mounds of the Savannah River." By 

 Clarence B. Moore. 



"Certain Aboriginal Mounds of the Altamaha River." By 

 Clarence B. Moore. 



" Recent Acquisitions." By Clarence B. Moore. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




26-4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



MATERIALS TOWARD A NATURAL CLASSIFICATION OF THE CYLIN- 



DRELLOID SNAILS. 



BY HENRY A. PILSBRY AND E. G. VANATTA. 



While recording some recent additions to the North American 

 landsnail fauna with the intention of revising the " Check List " of 

 United States land mollusks published in these Proceedings for 

 1889, the attention of the senior author was recalled to the rejection 

 of the generic name Cylindrella by Messrs. Harris and Burrows in 

 1891, and their substitution of a new name for the group. Upon 

 compiling a list of the generic and subgeneric names which have 

 been applied to species of " Cylindrella," it became obvious that a 

 thorough taxonomic revision was urgently needed. In order to as- 

 certain which of the numerous names should be retained as valid, 

 to place these upon a solid basis, and to reduce the remainder to 

 synonyms, it was found necessary to supplement a review of the lit- 

 erature of the group by an examination of the snails themselves, 

 especially with reference to the radula?, and the internal characters 

 of the shells, revealed by a study of sections cut to expose the inter- 

 nal columella or axis. This detailed examination has been made 

 chiefly by the junior author of this paper. 



The characters of the radula have been utilized as a basis for 

 classification by Crosse and Fischer in 1870, their paper marking 

 an epoch in the taxonomic history of this family. W. G. Binney 

 has added to our knowledge of this subject upon the lines laid down 

 by the French writers ; and later, Strebel and Pfeffer, in their sug- 

 gestive and original series of papers upon the Mexican fauna, have 

 made important contributions toward a rational classification of the 

 group. There are many other writings bearing upon the nomen- 

 clature of the Cylindrellas, but no others of importance for original 

 facts or views concerning their phylogeny or structure, aside from 

 mere species work. 



The external conchologic characters of the Cylindrellas are well 

 known by the writings of Pfeiffer, Poey and others, but the modifi- 

 cations of the internal armature have been far less fully elucidated. 

 A portion of PfeifFer's descriptions mention briefly the internal 

 structure, and some of the plates of the Novitates Conchologiece 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



and Malakozoqlogische Blatter represent it ; and Arango, in his 

 Contribution a la Fauna Malacologica Cabana, notes the internal 

 structure of the Cuban species. Most of these observations, how- 

 ever, are not sufficiently detailed or exact to meet the requirements 

 of the case, now that a classification is based largely upon internal 

 structure ; and our own work is therefore founded wholly upon the 

 study of a series of sections including nearly every species in the 

 collection of the Academy. 



Without entering into any elaborate expose or criticism of the 

 work of former authors upon the Cylindrellas, attention should be 

 directed to the contention of Crosse & Fischer 1 and later of Fischer 2 

 that the series should be distributed between two family groups, the 

 CyUndrellidce and the Pupidce, a conclusion based wholly upon the 

 structure of the teeth and jaws ; the first family having greatly mod- 

 ified teeth and plaited jaw, the second having normal dentition and 

 solid jaw. 



That this splitting of the Cylindrellas into two is an unnatural 

 division, seems to us to be proven by the following considerations : 

 (1) The discovery of completely Cylindrelloid shells (Epirobia) 

 with the " normal " type of teeth. (2) The presence of transition 

 stages in the teeth in the genus Holospira, and (3) the recent dem- 

 onstration by the senior author of this paper 3 of the rapid changes 

 undergone by the teeth of some gene"ra under the stress of changed 

 habits, without corresponding changes in the rest of the anatomy, 

 as seen in Papuina, Polymita, etc. (4) The general law of change 

 in the structure of the jaw, as illustrated in the families Endodon- 

 tidce and Helicidce, must now be recognized as largely discounting 

 the old value placed upon that organ as a factor in systematic mal- 

 acology ; and in any family of snails we may expect to find both 

 the more primitive plaited and the later solid type of jaw. The 

 final reason for rejecting the idea that any of the group under con- 

 sideration are Pupidce, is that none of them, so far as known, possess 

 the extremely characteristic complication of the male genital organs 

 found in Pupa, Buliminus, Clausilia, and their immediate allies, and 

 which constitute one of the most important characters of the 

 family Pupidce. 



1 Journ. de Conchyl., 1870. 



2 Manuel de Conchyliologie. 



3 Manual of Conchology (2), IX, introduction and portions relating to ar- 

 boreal Helices. 



18 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Our further observations upou the family may be grouped under 

 five heads : — 

 I. Names applied to generic and minor groups of Cylindrelloid 



snails. 

 II. Key to the genera and subgenera. 



III. Classified lists of the species with zoo-geographic and other 

 notes. 



IV. Brief sketch of other genera of the family. 



V. Provisional phylogenetic diagram and table of geographic dis- 

 tribution. 



I. CHRONOLOGICAL LIST OF NAMES APPLIED TO CYLINDRELLOID 



SNAILS. 

 (Exclusive of those pertaining to Lia, Macroceramus, Holospira, and other 

 generally recognized genera). 



1822 (or earlier). Cochlodina Ferussac, Tableau Systematique, 

 etc., p. 24, 61. 



Under Helix, Ferussac establishes a " Quatorzieme sous-genre. 

 Cochlodine, Cochlodina nobis." The subgeneric definition applies 

 better to Clausilia than to the other forms included by Ferussac in the 

 group ; and, indeed, seems to be based wholly upon that genus. 



The species of Cochlodina are classified as follows : — 



* Shell dextral. 



f Aperture without teeth or lamina?. 



1. Peristome not continuous. 

 Premier groupe. Les Pupoides, Pupoides. 



493 carinata Gmel. \=Macroceramus lineahis Brug.]. 



494 nebulosa nobis, [nomen nudum]. 



495 ignijera nobis, [nomen nuduni]. 



2. Peristome continuous. 

 Deuxieme groupe. Les Tracheloides, Tracheloides. 



496 sloanii nobis, [nomen nuduni]. 



497 draparnaldi nobis, [nomen nudum]. 



498 petiveriana nobis. [probably=C. eximia Pfr.]. 



499 blainvilliana nobis, [nomen nudum]. 



500 cylindrus Chemn. \_=Cylindrella]. 



501 rosata nobis, [nomen nudum], 



502 truncata Dillw. [Undeterminable I^Megalomastoma]. 



503 fasciata Lam. [Undeterminable 7=Megalomastoma]. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



504 tortuosa Chemn. [= Tortulosa tortuosa, an oriental operculate). 



505 gracilicollis nobis, [iiomen nudum~\. 



506 perplicata nobis, [iiomen nudum\. 



507 collaris nobis. [=='Oylindrella]. 



508 subula nobis, \_nomen nudum"]. 



509 antiperversa nobis, [iiomen nudum]. 



ft Aperture armed with large folds or long teeth. 



510 gargantua nobis \_nomen nudum=Odontostomus]. 

 ** Shell sinistral. 



1. Aperture without laminse. 



Troisieme groupe. Les Anomales, Anomales ; Pup>a Drap. 



511 perversa L. [=Balea]. 



512 chemnitziana nobis. [Cylindrella elongata Chemn.]. 



2. Aperture armed (with laniinse or an elastic operculum). 

 Quatrieme groupe. Les Clausilies, Clausilia^; genre clausilie Drap. 



[Includes the species of Clausilia, with some nomina nuda per- 

 haps pertaining to other groups]. 



It will be seen that Cochlodina is a miscellaneous group, including 

 species of at least six modern genera, all of which have since been 

 named. Under these circumstances it had better be left as a 

 synonym of Clausilia, as the diagnosis precludes its use for any of 

 the other groups included. 



1828. Brachypus Guilding, Zool. Journal, III, p. 167. Pro- 

 posed for B. costatus Gldg. Preoccupied in Aves by Swainson, 

 1824, and in Diptera by Meigen in the same year. 



1837. Urocoptis Beck, Index Moll., p. 83. Species, petiverana 

 Fer., blainvilliana Fer., cylindrus Ch., Dw. and Wood ; rosata Fer., 

 ■glandula B., abbreviata B., coardata B., List H., XXI, 17; trunca- 

 tula Lam. (Clausilia), gracilicollis Fer. 



J. E. Gray, in Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1847, p. 177, selects 

 <l Turbo " cylindrus as type. This would make the group equivalent 

 to Thaumasia Alb. a later name. Von Martens, in Die Heliceen, 

 1860, names decollata Nyst as type. This species belongs to Crosse 

 and Fischer's later group Eucalodium ; and as it does not appear in 

 Beck's original list of species, must be rejected from the group. 

 Urocoptis is the earliest tenable name for any genus of the family. 



1837. Brachypodella Beck, Index Moll., p. 89. Proposed for 

 perplieata Fer., collaris Lam., subula Fer., antiperversa Fer. 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



1837. Apoma Beck, Index Moll., p. 89. For elongata Chemn. 

 (chemnitziana Fer.). Gray, 1847, and Morch, 1852, retain the 

 name for this species. 



1840. Cylindrella Pfeiffer, Archiv fur Naturg., p. 41. For 

 the following species : 



Gracilicollis Fer. [a Brachypodella] collaris Lam. [a Brachypo- 

 delict] antiperversa Desh. [a Brachypodella], subula Desh. [type of 

 the later group Mychostoma Alb.], perplicata Fer. [a Brachypo- 

 delict], chemnitziana Desh. [type species of the earlier group Apoma 

 Beck], elegans Pfr. [type of the later group Gongylostoma Alb.], 

 crispula Pfr. [a species of the later group Gongylostoma], f torticol- 

 lis (Oliv.) Lam. [=Clausilia of the section Bitorquata Bttg.]. 



Another Cylindrella, in Conidce, was proposed in 1840 by Swain- 

 son (Malacology, p. 311), and still again, for the group now gener- 

 ally known as Cylichna (t. c. p. 326. See Man. of Conch., XV, p. 

 287). It is now, so far as we know, impossible to decide whether 

 Pfeifler's group was published prior to Swainson's or vice versa. 

 Cossmann has proposed to substitute the term Distcectria (q. v.) for 

 Cylindrella Pfr. As Cylindrella is later than both Urocoptis and 

 Brachypodella, and the same name was used in the same year for 

 two other groups, we reject it from the nomenclature of this family. 



1840. Siphonostoma Swainson, Treatise ou Malacol., pp. 168, 

 333. For costata Gldg. and fasciata (Encycl. Meth., pi. 461, f. 17). 

 Name preoccupied by Voigt in Vermes, 1836 ; also used in Rotifera, 

 1832. 



1847. Brachypodisca Agassiz, Nomenclator Zool., Index Uni- 

 versalis, p. 51. An emendation, upon etymological grounds, of 

 Brachypodella Beck. 



1850. Thaumasia Albers, Die Heliceen, p. 207. Proposed for 

 decollata Nyst, liebmanni Pfr., gruneri Dkr., cylijidrus Chemn., san- 

 guinea Pfr., brevis Pfr., binneyana Pfr. 



The two first species belong to Eucalodium, the rest to the Jamai- 

 can and Haytien group of large Cylindrellas. Name preoccupied by 

 Perty in Arachnida, 1830. Spartina (q. v.) has been proposed as a 

 substitute, but it is superfluous, as the grouj) is a synonym of Uro- 

 coptis Beck, 1837. 



1850. Mychostoma Albers, Die Heliceen, p. 207. Proposed for 

 subula Fer., collaris Fer., gracilicollis Pfr., hanleyana Pfr., pallida 

 Guild., seminuda Adams. 



In the second edition of Die Heliceen, 1860, p. 37, von Martens 

 selects C. subula as type. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



1850. Gongylostoma Albers, Die Hel., p. 208. Proposed for 

 soiverbyana Pfr., humboldtiana Pfr., rosea Pfr., variegata Pfr., ele- 

 gans Pfr., crispula Pfr., sagraiana Pfr., porrecta Gould, philippiana 

 Pfr. 



From this list of species, von Martens selected elegans as the type, 

 in Die Heliceen, 1860, p. 88. 



1850. Casta Albers, Die Heliceen, p. 208, proposed for elongata 

 Ch. and gracilis Wood, the former selected as type by von Martens, 

 1860. This group is absolutely equivalent to Apoma Beck, 1837. 



1852. Strophina Morch., Catal. Yoldi, p. 35. Proposed for 

 laterradii Grat. only. 



1853. Trachelia Pfr., Monogr. Hel. Viv., Ill, p. 564. Proposed 

 for marmorata Shutt., volubilis Morel., porrecta Gld., gracillima 

 Poey, speluncoz Pfr., subtilis Morel., gouldiana Pfr., rngeli, Shutt., 

 riisei Pfr., cinerea Pfr., morini Morel., philipjriana Pfr., scalarina 

 Shutt. 



These are mainly slender Brachypodella species. Name preoc- 

 cupied by Scopoli in Aves, 1777, by Serv. in Coleoptera, 1834, and 

 by Westwood in Coleoptera, 1839. It is, therefore, rejected from 

 molluscan nomenclature. 



1870. Callonia Crosse & Fischer, Journal de Conch., 1870, p. 

 18. Based upon one species, Cyl. elliotti Poey. 



1380. Epirobia Strebel & Pfeiffer, Beitr. zur Kenntniss der 

 Fauna Mex. Land- und Siisswasser-Conch., Theil IV, pp. 77, 85. 

 Proposed for Cylindrella berendti, polygyra, morini (not of Morelet), 

 apiostoma. 



This is a valid genus, well distinguished by the dentition and 

 hollow axis. 



1891. Dist^ectria Cossmann in Harris and Burrows, Eoc. and 

 Oligoc. Beds Paris Basin, pp. 100, 114. Proposed as a substitute 

 for Cylindrella Pfr., no reason being given for the change. By 

 reference to the list of species originally assigned to Cylindrella, it 

 will be seen that long before the year 1891, every one was amply 

 provided with generic names, Gongylostoma Alb. and Brachypodella 

 Beck including all of them. The name Distwctria, therefore, falls 

 as a synonym. Being of even date with Spartina Harr. & Burr. 

 (q.v.), it might possibly dispute supremacy with that term as a 

 generic name for "Cylindrella " parisientis Desh. ; but it is obvious 

 that that species (which, in our opinion, is not a Cylindrella nor a 

 member of the same family), does not require both a generic and 

 subgeneric name. 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



1891. Spartina Harris & Burrows, The Eocene and Oligocene 

 Beds of the Paris Basin, pp. 100, 113 (Sept. 28, 1891). Proposed 

 as a substitute for Thaumasia Alb., 1850 (not Perty, 1830-1834). 



As Thaumasia is based partly on species of Eucalodium (Crosse 

 & Fischer, 1868), and partly on species of Urocoptis (Beck, 1837), 

 the name Spartina falls as a synonym under these groups, unless, 

 indeed, it be retained for the Paris Basin Eocene species described 

 by Deshayes as "Cylindrella" parisiensis, which is the only species 

 mentioned under Spartina by Harris and Burrows. See under Dis- 

 tcectria. 



II. ANALYTICAL KEY TO CYLINDRELLOID GENERA AND THEIR 



SUBDIVISIONS. 



(Exclusive of the generally recognized genera Lia, Macroceramus, Eucalo- 

 dium, etc.). 



I. Axis of the shell a solid, not perforated, column ; teeth of the 

 radula very peculiar, the centrals very narrow, laterals with 

 gouge-shaped cusps. 

 a. Radula with large posterior cusps (ectocones) upon all of 

 the side teeth, which are of similar form, gradually becom- 

 ing smaller from the inner to the outer edge of radula, 

 generally with no abrupt break in size between lateral and 

 marginal teeth ; rows slanting, " en chevron " (PL XVII, 

 fig. 5). Genus UROCOPTIS Beck. 



b. Axis slender and simple, without spiral lamina? or 

 other processes. Subgenus Urocoptis. 



c. Shell large, stout and fusiform ; axis straight. 



Section Urocoptis s. s. 

 c 1 . Shell small, thin and fusiform ; axis straight. 



Section Cochlodinella P. & V. 

 c 2 . Shell small, pillar-shaped ; axis sigmoid below. 



Section Spirostemma P. & V. 



b 1 . Axis with a single, strong, smooth spiral lamina, 



median in each whorl. Subgenus Arangia P. & V. 



b 2 . Axis with two series of hooks curving toward each 



other, or with a series of oblique nodes or ribs. 



Subgenus Idiostemma P. & V. 



b 3 . Axis with a single stout spiral fold crenulated at the 



edge. Section Maceo P. & V. 



6 4 . Axis with one or several spiral lamina?, the lower of 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



which is cut into teeth or crenulated, at least in the 

 earlier whorls. Subgenus Gongylostoma Alb. 



c. Three to seven spiral laminae developed, increas- 

 ing in size from the upper to the lowest one, 

 which is largest. Section Pycnoptychia P. & V. 

 c 1 . Three laminae, the lowest smallest, upper largest. 



Section Callonia C. & F. 

 c 2 . Two subequal spirals; a median whorl with 

 accessory laminae upon the upper and basal 

 walls. Section Sectilumen P. & V. 



e 3 . Two spirals, the lower dentate in upper whorls, 

 and in an intermediate whorl expanding into a 

 very broad, flat or cup-like plate. 



Section Esochara P. & V. 



e*. Two gradually increasing spirals, the lower cren- 



ulate or denticulate ; sometimes a short, low, 



third spiral interposed in an intermediate whorl. 



Section Gongylostoma s. sir. 

 c 5 . Two strong, subequal spirals, both crenulated or 

 denticulate (Haiti). 



Section Amphicosmia P. & V. 

 e 6 . One incised or denticulate lower lamina with 

 sometimes a smaller one above it. 



Section Tomelasmus P. & V. 

 a 1 . Radula with the posterior cusp (ectocone) sub-obsolete or 

 wanting on the first or both lateral teeth ; two laterals on 

 each side enormously developed, the marginals abruptly 

 smaller, narrow, probably functionless, with vestigial cusps ; 

 arranged in horizontal lines (PI. XVII fig. 4). Axis of 

 the shell without laminae. 



Genus BRACHYPODELLA Beck. 

 b. Inner lateral tooth with a vestigial posterior cusp (ecto- 

 cone) without cutting point ; outer lateral with cut- 

 ting point developed on the ectocone. 



Subgenus Brachypodella. 

 c. Axis slender throughout, rarely with a small 

 spiral fold ; shell slender and elongate. 



Section Brachypodella s. str. 

 c 1 . Axis strong, heavily calloused ; shell obese. 



Section Strophina Morch. 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



b l . Inner lateral tooth with no ectocone ; that of the 

 outer lateral without cutting point. Species all Ja- 

 maican, 

 c. Axis slender, straight ; last whorl of shell be- 

 coming free, and keeled below ; aperture subcir- 

 cular, angular below, as wide as high. 

 d. Shell small, narrowly fusiform, with strong- 

 ly ribbed whorls. Section Geoscala P. & V. 

 d 1 . Shell slender, pillar-like, white and smooth, 

 of many narrow whorls. 



Section Mychostoma Alb. 

 c 1 . Axis a mere edge of contact between whorls ; 

 shell white, sinistral, slender, of many oblique 

 whorls, the last not free; aperture oval, longer 

 than wide. Section Apovia Beck. 



II. Axis of the shell a hollow column ; radula of normal form and 

 arrangement; central teeth tricuspid, short and wide; laterals 

 numerous, similar, bicuspid ; marginals wide, very short, multi- 

 cuspid (PI. XVII, fig. 2). 

 a. Shell very slender and elongate, thin, not conspicuously 

 calcareous, the axis subcylindrical or bulging in each 

 whorl, usually rugose. Genus EPIROBIA S. & P. 



a 1 . Shell stout, pupiform, with entire spire, conspicuously cal- 

 careous, etc., etc. Genus HOLOSPIRA Mart. 



III. CLASSIFIED LISTS OF SPECIES. 



As the groups defined by us in the preceding table of classification 

 differ radically in limits from those hitherto accepted, it is necessary 

 to supplement the characterization of the genera and subgenera by 

 detailed lists of species. These lists contain only species whose 

 characters we have ascertained by the examination of sections. 

 Those we have not been able to examine are omitted, 4 although a 

 large part of them could doubtless be approximately grouped by the 

 published information. 



The names of species of which the radula is known are distin- 

 guished by the following symbols : " (C F) " after the name of a 

 species indicates that the dentition has been examined by Crosse & 



4 The lists are, therefore, a catalogue of the species in the collection of the 

 Academy, excluding a considerable number of doubtful, unidentified or new 

 species. Any forms not mentioned herein we will be glad to receive and offer 

 an exchange for. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



Fischer; 5 " (B.) " that it has been examined by "W. G. Binney ; 6 

 « (S P.) " by Strebel & Pfeffer ; 7 " (P V.)" by ourselves. 



Genus UROCOPTIS Beck. 



This genus is restricted to Cuba, Jamaica and Haiti, with a few 

 stragglers from the Cuban fauna in south Florida. It is practi- 

 cally a group of the Greater Antilles. The typical forms, with the 

 axis simple, are the most widely spread and probably the oldest 

 type. The large, stout forms being a local development common to 

 Jamaica and Haiti. 



The forms with spiral folds or other ornamentation of the axis 

 are confined to Cuba and the adjacent portion of Haiti. There is 

 every reason to believe them autochthonous to Cuban soil, a few 

 species recently spreading eastward. 



This genus shows the bond between Jamaica and Haiti to be 

 rather stronger than between Cuba and Haiti, the Cuban groups 

 occurring in Haiti being represented by very few species, and these 

 restricted to the extreme western end of the island. 



The elements common to Jamaica and Cuba are the more general- 

 ized and presumably older sectional groups of the genus. 



Respecting the habits and environment of the Jamaican Cylin- 

 drellas of both the genera Urocoptis and Brachypodella, Mr. Charles 

 T. Simpson writes of the experiences of Mr. J. B. Henderson and 

 himself, as follows: "C. sanguinea, rosea, obesa, cylindrus, aspera, 

 brevis and allied forms live on the ground among the scrub and 

 dead leaves, and are of just about the color of their surroundings. 

 We found C. nobilior abundant in a talus of decomposed shaly rock 

 at Bogwalk, of which it was almost exactly the color. C. seminuda, 

 alba and robertsi are found in the crevices of craggy limestone 

 rocks, among cliffs. C. rubra and tenella live in the ground in 

 thickets where there is abundance of dead and decaying wood. 

 The shells, inform and color, always look exactly like pieces of broken 

 twigs, which are found abundantly with them, and it was a long 

 time before Henderson and I found a single specimen. They are 

 very abundant though in proper localities. C. gracilis Wood grows 

 invariably on the trunks and stems of trees in thick scrub. These 

 trees have grayish or whitish spotted bark ; the little rascals attach 

 themselves to it by the foot and stand out with the shell nearly at 



5 Journal de Conchyliologie, 1870. 



6 Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci., III. 



7 Beitr. Mex. Moll. 




274 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



right angles to the trunk or limb, and as the shell is always more or 

 less dirty, the resemblance to a thorn is so astonishing that we 

 doubtless passed by thousands of them, never dreaming for a mo- 

 ment that they were Cylindrellas." 



Mr. Uselma C. Smith found B. elongata living on limestone cliffs, 

 upon which the white shells hung like stalactites, for which he at 

 first mistook them. 



Subgenus Urocoptis Beck. 



Type V. cylindrus (Chemn.), PI. XVIII, fig. 11 (axis) and PI. 

 XVII, fig. 5 (dentition). 



Section Urocoptis, s. s. 



Species of Jamaica. 



U. amethystina (Chitty). 



U. aspera (Ad.). 



U. baquieana (Chitty). 



U. brevis (Pfr.) [C F.]. 



U. camea (Ad.). 



U. cylindrus (Chemn.). 



V. gravesii (Ad.). 



U. lata (Ad.). 



U. megacheila (Chitty). 



V. nobilior (Ad.). 



U. procera (Ad.). 



U. rosea (C. B. Ad. not Pfr.) 



[C F., B., S P., P V.]. 

 U. sanguinea (Pfr.) [C F.]. 

 U. zonata (Ad.). 



U. adamsiana (Pfr.). 

 U. arcuata (W. & M.). 

 U. crenata (W. & M.). 

 U. eugenii (Dohrn). 

 U. eximia (Pfr.). 

 U. fiammidata (Pfr.). 



Species of Hayti. 



U. gruneri (Pfr.). 

 U. gnigouana (Petit). 

 U. mabvja (Weinl.). 

 U. malleata (Pfr.). 

 U. menkeana (Pfr.). 

 U. pundurata (Pfr.). 



Section Cochlodinella Pils. & Van. 



Type U. poeyana (Orb.). Radula with 12.1.12 teeth, which are 

 typical for the genus in form, but decrease rather rapidly. 



Species of Cuba and Florida. 



U. angulifera (Gundl.). 

 U. atropui-purea (Arango). 

 U. goniostoma (Gundl.). 

 U. illamellata (Wright). 

 V. jejuna (Gld.). 

 U. lactaria (Gld.). 



U. mamillata (Wright). 



U. mixta (Wright). 



U. paradoxa (Arango). 



U. poeyana (Orb.) [B., P V.]. 



U. presasiana (Pfr.). 



U. variegata (Pfr.). 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



Species of Jamaica. 



U. pupceformis (C. B. Ad.). 

 U. striata (Chitty). 



U. augustce (C. B. Ad.). 

 U. hollandi (C. B. Ad.). 

 U. hydrophana (Chitty). 



Section Spirostemma Pils. & Van. 



Type U. rubra (C. B. Ad.), PI. XVIII, fig. 12. The species are 

 all Jamaican. 



U. dunkeriana (Pfr.). 

 U. montana (C. B. Ad.). 

 U. princeps (C. B. Ad.). 



U.pusilla (C.B.Ad.). 



U. rubra (C. B. Ad.). 



U. similis (C. B. Ad.). 



U. tenella (C. B. Ad.). 



U. tenera (C.B.Ad.). 



Subgenus Arangia Pils. & Van. 



Type C. sowerbiana Pfr., PI. XVIII, fig. 20. Subgeneric name 

 in memory of the Cuban naturalist, Rafeal Arango. 

 U. sowerbiana Pfr., Cuba. U. monticola Weinl. Gonave I. 



Subgenus Idiostemma Pils. & Van. 



Type C. uncata Gundl., PI. XVII, fig. 10. 



A Cuban group, containing some of the most peculiar species of 

 the genus. There is a series of species leading by gradual stages 

 from the axial pairs of hooks of the typical forms to the oblique 

 nodes or ribs of U. lateralis, etc. 



U. uncata (Gundl.). 



U.perlata (Gundl.) [C F.,P.V.] 



U. laevigata (Gundl.). 



U. intusmalleata (Gundl.). 



U. geminata (Pfr.). 

 U.fastigata (Gundl.). 

 U. lineata (Gundl.). 

 U. lateralis (Paz.) [P V.]. 



Section Maceo Pils. & Van. 



Radula with the teeth very rapidly decreasing, the third decidedly 

 smaller than second, formula about 8.1.8. Subgeneric name in 

 honor of a Cuban patriot. 



U. interrupta (Gundl.) [P V.], Cuba. PL XVII, fig. 7. 



Subgenus Gongylostoma Albers. 

 Section Pycnoptychia Pils. & Van. 



Type U. humboldtiana (Pfr.), PI. XVIII, fig. 14. Species all 

 Cuban. 



U. humboldtiana (Pfr.) [B.]. 

 U. oviediana (D. Orb.). 

 U. scceva (Gundl.) [C P.]. 



U. shidtleivorthiana (Poey). 



U. striatella (Wright). 



U. trilamellata (Pfr.). 



U. vignalensis (Wright) [C F]. 




276 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Section Callonia Crosse & Fischer. 



[1898. 



Type C. elliottii Poey. Radula typical. See PL XVIII, fig. 18, 

 U. dautzenbergiana (Crosse). Species all Cuban. 



We have enlarged the group of Crosse and Fischer to include 

 other Cuban species having the same internal structure and denti- 

 tion. 



Species elaborately sculptured with hollow ribs : — 



U. elliottii (Poey) [C F.]. 



U. dautzenbergiana (Crosse) 

 [P V.]. 



U. notata (GundL). 

 U. vincta (GundL). 

 U. saxosa (Poey). 



Somewhat smooth species : — 



U. brunnescens (GundL). 

 U. elara (AVright). 

 U. guirensis (GundL). 

 U. infortunata (Arango). 



Species with beaded suture : — 



U. albocrenata (GundL) 



Section Sectilumen Pils. & Van. 



U. ornata (GundL) [B., P V.]. Cuba. PL XVII, fig. 9. 



Section Esochara Pils. & Van. 



Type U. strangulata (Poey), PL XVIII, fig. 15. Distribution* 

 Cuba. 



U. fabreana (Poey) [P V.]. U. teneriensis (Wright). 



U. strangulata (Poey). 



Section Gongylostoma Albers (restricted). 



Type U. elegans (Ph.), PL XVIII, fig. 17 (variety). Also PL 

 XVIII, fig. 16, U. pruinosa. Distribution, Cuba. 



U. artemesice (GundL). 



U. auberiana (D. Orb.). 



U. conereta (GundL). 



U. coronadoi (Arang). 



U. crispula (Pfr.). 



U. elegans (Pfr.) [B., P V.]. 



U.fortis (GundL). 



U. gutierezi (Arango). 



U. lavalleana (Orb.). 



U. obliqua (Pfr.). 



U. planospira (Pfr.). 



U. pruinosa (Morel.) [P V.]. 



Section Tomelasmus Pils. & Van. 



Type U. torquata (Morel.), PL XVII, fig. 8 ; also PL XVIII, 

 fig. 13, U. wrighti var. Radula typical. Species all Cuban. 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



277 



U. aculens (Morel.). 

 U. acus (Pfr.). 

 U. adnata (Pfr.). 

 U. affinis (Pfr.) [P V.]. 

 U. angustior (Wright). 

 U. arcustriata (Wr.). 

 U. assimilis (Arango). 

 U. capillacea (Pfr.). 

 U. coerulans (Poey). ' 

 U. colorata (Arango). 

 U. crenulata (Gdl.). 

 U. crystallina (Wright). 

 U. decolorata (Gundl.). 

 U. diaphana (Wright). 

 U. discors (Poey). 

 U. fibrosa (Gundl.). 

 U. jusiformis (Wr.). 

 U. garciana (Wright). 



U. heynemani (Pfr.). 



U. hidalgoi (Arango). 



U. hilleri (Pfr.) [P V.]. 



U. incerta (Arango). 



U. Integra (Pfr.). 



U. irrorata (Gundl.). 



U. macra (Wright). 



U. plumbea (Wright). 



U. producta (Gundl.). 



U. sauvalleana (Gundl.) [P V.]. 



U. scabrosa (Gundl.). 



U. thomsoni (Arango). 



U. torqiuda (Morel.). 



U. uvguiculata (Arango). 



U. ventricosa (Gundl.) [P V.] 



U. violacea (Wright). 



U. wrighti (Pfr.). 



Section Amphicosmia Pils. & Van. 



Type C. salleana Pfr., PI. XVIII, fig. 22. 



Proposed for three San Domingo species in which the columella 

 bears two spiral laruinse, both finely denticulate. 

 U. salleana (Pfr.). U. gracilicollis (Auct.). 



U. hjalmarsoni (Pfr.). I 



Genus BRACHYPODELLA Beck, 1838. 



In this genus the radula is more highly specialized than in Uro- 

 coptis and the shell generally less so, internal armature of the axis 

 being entirely absent, or limited to a weak, scarcely noticeable, 

 spiral fold above. 



The geographic range of Brachypodella includes not only the ter- 

 ritory occupied by Urocoptis, but surpasses it on all sides : in the 

 Bahamas on the north, the Virgin group on the east, the whole 

 Caribbean chain and northern border of South America on the 

 south, and west and southwest is sparsely distributed over Central 

 America and southeastern Mexico. 



The distribution of the minor groups is suggestive. The Jamai- 

 can sections form a group by themselves characterized by the ex- 

 tremely aberrant dentition as well as the modified shells. The spe- 

 cies of other islands and the mainland are decidedly less specialized, 




278 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



and show but a small amount of variation in general appearance. 

 The section Strophina has the dentition of typical Brachypodella. 



Section Brachypodella s. s. 



Type B. antiperversa Fer. 



This subgenus has a less specialized radula and wider geographic 

 range than the others. The species are all small, mainly quite slen- 

 der forms, for the most part not exhibiting great variety of form ; 

 but two exceptions may be noticed : B. brooksiana of Cuba, and 

 some related species, have the neck enormously drawn out ; while 

 in some of the continental forms there is a weak spiral lamina upon 

 the pillar. 



Continental Species : Tabasco and Yucatan to Venezuela. 



B. bourguignatiana (Ancey). 

 B. hanleyana (Pfr.). 

 B. morini (Morel.). 



B. speluncce (Morel.). 



B. speluncce, var. dubia (Pils.). 



B. subtilis (Morel.). 



Insular species : Curacao and Trinidad to Porto Rico. 



B. raveni (Bid.). Curacao. 



B. trinitaria (Pfr.) [P V.]. Trin- 

 idad. 



B. costata (Gldg.) [C F.]. Bar- 

 bados. 



B. antiperversa (Fer.) [P V.]. 

 Guadeloupe. 



B. collaris (Auct.) [P V.]. Gua- 

 deloupe, Martinique. 



B. pallida (Gldg.). St. John, 



Tortola, St. Thomas, Porto 



Rico. 

 B. chordata (Pfr.). St. Croix. 

 B. portoricensis (Pfr.). Porto 



Rico. 

 B.riisei (Pfr.) [P V.]. Porto 



Rico. 



Greater Antilles — Haiti. 



B. dominicensis (Pfr.). 



B. gouldiana (Pfr.). 



B. obesa (Weinl. & Mts.). 



B. smithiana (Pfr.). 

 B. weinlandi (Pfr.). 



Greater Antilles — Cuba. 



B. blainiana (Gundl.). 



B. brooksiana (Gdl.) [C F., P. 



V.]. 

 B. camoensis (Pfr.). 

 B. capillacea (Pfr.). 

 B. cyclostoma (Pfr.) [B., P V.]. 



B. modesta (Poey). 

 B. phiUppiana (Pfr.). 

 B. plicata (Poey) [P V.]. 

 B. porrecta (Gld.). 

 B. rugeli (Shutt.). 

 B. scalarina (Shutt.). 




B. scopulosa (Gundl.). 

 B. sexdecimalis (Jien.). 

 B. soluta (Pfr.). 

 B. turcasiana (Gundl.). 



1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



B. gracillima (Poey). 

 B. gundlachiana (Poey). 

 B. marmorata (Shutt.). 

 B. minuta (Gundl.). 



Bahamas. 



B. bahamensis (Pfr.). New Providence, [C F., P V.]. 



Section Strophina Morch. 



B. laterradii (Grat.) [P V.]. San Domingo. 



Section Geoscala Pils. & Van. 



Type B. seminuda (C. B. Ads.). 



A Jamaican group similar to some Brachypodellas except in the 

 dentition, which is of the highly evolved type seen in Mychostoma. 

 The shell differs from this last group in being fusiform, fewer 

 whorled and strongly costate. 



B. inomata (C. B. Ad.). 

 B. robertsi (C. B. Ad.). 



B. seminuda (C. B. Ad.) [B., P 



V.]. 

 B. costulata (C. B. Ad.). 



Subgenus Mychostoma Albers. 



Mychostoma Alb., Die Hel. (edit. 1), p. 207. All species are 

 Jamaican. 

 B. agnesiana (C. B. Ad.) [C F., i B. alabastrine/, (Pfr.). 



P V.]. I B. pearmaniana (Chitty). 



B. alba (Ad.). I B. subula (Fer.) [B.]. 



Subgenus Apoma Beck. 



Apoma Beck, Index Moll., p. 89. 



Casta Alb., Die He!., p. 208. 



A very distinct group, containing two sinistral Jamaican species. 



Type Turbo elongatus (Wood), PL XVIII, fig. 21. 



Von Martens objects to the name Apoma because of its inapplica- 

 bility as implying that other allied groups should be operculated ; 

 but it was obviously given to direct attention to the most conspicu- 

 ous difference between this group and Clausilia, and from this 

 point of view is eminently appropriate. 

 B. gracilis (Wood) [C F., S P.]. | B. elongata (Chemn.) [B., P V.J. 



Genus ANOMA Albers. 



1850. Anoma Alb., Die Heliceen, p. 209, for acus Pfr., gossei Pfr., 

 tricolor Pfr. (the last selected as type by von Martens, Die Hel. 2d 

 edit., 1860, p. 269). Not Anomus Fairm. Hemiptera 1846. 




280 PROCEEDINGS~OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



1850. Leia Albers, Die Hel., p. 207. Sole species L. maugeri 

 Wood. Not Leia Meigen in Diptera, 1818, nor Meg., Coleoptera, 

 1821. 



1852. Lia Morch, Catal. Yoldi, p. 35. Sole species L. maugeri. 

 Not Lia Esch., in Coleoptera, 1829. 



1869. Inliaculus Schaufusa, in Paetel's Moll. Syst. et Catal., p. 15. 



1894. Vendrysia Simpson, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xvii, p. 430. 

 Substitute for Leia. 



Distribution, Jamaica; mountains of the interior. 



Of the several names proposed for this group, Anoma has priority. 

 It has the disadvantage of being preceded by Anomus, which some 

 writers would hold to be identical. Those adhering to this view 

 will adopt the name Inliaculus of Schaufuss ; but pending some con- 

 certed action upon this point in " nymology " the oldest name may 

 be allowed to stand. 



The dentition (PI. XVII, figs. 3 and 6, A. maugeri) is extremely 

 peculiar, differing from that of Urocoptis in having the cusps of the 

 teeth serrate. 



A. maugeri- (Wood). 

 A. blandiana (Pfr.). 

 A. macrostoma (Pfr.). 



A. zebrina (Pfr.). 

 J., tricolor (Pfr.). 

 A. gossei (Pfr.). 



Genus MACKOCERAMUS Guilding. 



1822. Cochlodina, Ire groupe, Pupoides Fer., Tabl. Systematique, 

 p. 24, 61. 



1828. Macroceramus Guilding, Zool. Journ., IV, p. 168. M. 

 signatus. 



1850. Colobus Alb., Die Heliceen p. 177. Not of Illiger, 1811, 

 Merrian, 1820 (Rept.), or Serv., 1833 (Coleopt.). 



For anatomy see Crosse & Fischer, Journ. de Conchyl., 1870, p. 

 20 ; Moll. Terr. Mex., I, p. 419. Binney, Terr. Moll., V, p. 384 ; 

 Ann. N. Y. Acad., Ill, p. 126. Strebel & Pfeffer, Beitr. Mex. L. u. 

 S.-W. Conch., IV, p. 89. 



Preponderantly Antillean, this genus has representatives upon the 

 mainland bordering the Gulf of Mexico from Venezuela to Florida. 

 These peripheral species are apparently all members of the section 

 Microceramus. In the West Indies the genus is present on nearly 

 every island, but is especially developed in Cuba, to which Spiro- 

 ceramus is confined. It is poorly represented in Jamaica by a few 

 species of ihe group Microceramus, to which the species of the 

 Bahamas likewise belong. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



Synopsis of subgenera. 



I. Axis slender, straight and simple. 



a. Macroceramus. Shell comparatively solid and large. Type 

 M. signatus Gldg. 



a'. Microceramus Pils. & Van., (n. s.-g.). Shell smaller, thin. 

 Type M. floridanus Pils. 



II. Axis with a strong spiral lamina. 



Spiroceramus Pils. & Van., (n. s.-g.). Dentition unknown. Type 

 M. amplus Gundl. 



Genus PINERIA Poey. 



This small group, originally described from the Isle of Pines, but 

 also occurring in several of the Caribbean Islands, is probably an 

 offshoot of the genus Macroceramus. The peculiar features of the 

 external anatomy described by Poey should be re-examined. 



Genus EPIROBIA Strebel & Pfeffer, 1880. 



Epirobia S. '& P., Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Fauna mexikanischer 

 Land- u. Siisswasser-Conchylien, Theil IV, pp. 77, 85. 



Type E. polygyra Pfr. PI. XVII, fig. 2 (dentition). For figure 

 of the axis, see Strebel, I. c, pi. 14, f. 14. 



Many-whorled, slender species of Eastern Mexico, usually retain- 

 ing the spire intact, differing from Urocoptis and BrachypodeUa in 

 dentition and in the hollow axis. Notwithstanding the entirely 

 " Cylindrella "-like aspect of the shell externally, these features un- 

 questionably locate the group near Holospira and Coelocentrum. 



Strebel and Pfeffer referred all of the Mexican Cylindrellas to 

 their group ; but it must be restricted by removal of the forms with 

 solid axis, which apparently belong to BrachypodeUa. In addition 

 to the two species mentioned below, E. berendti Pfr. [S P.] belongs 

 here, and probably gassiest Pfr. and swiftiana Crosse also. The " E. 

 morini Morelet," of Strebel & Pfeffer was incorrectly identified, and 

 probably a form of E. polygyra? The true C. morini is a Brachy- 

 podeUa with acutely keeled base. 



E. polygyra Pfr. [S P., P V.]. 



E. apiostoma Pfr. 



8 Since this paper was written, this form has been referred by Dr. von 

 Martens to C. polygyi'ella Mts. It is a true Epirobia. 



19 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Genus HOLOSPIRA von Martens. 



This genus, which is confined to the mainland of Mexico and the 

 adjacent States of the Union, offers an interesting series of structures 

 in the internal lamella?, parallel to those of Urocoptis. The prin- 

 cipal divergence from that genus is in the frequent development of 

 parietal and basal lamella?, which are of rare occurrence in the 

 Antillean genera. 



Professor Dall, 9 who has ably investigated the subject, gives the 

 following classification, which seems worthy of unqualified ap- 

 proval : — 



Subgenus Holospira s. s., type N. pilocerei Pfr., with section 

 Bostrichocentrum Strebel & Pfeffer, Haplostemma, Eudistemma and 

 Distomospira Dall. 



Subgenus Metastoma Strebel & Pfeffer, type H. roemeri Pfr. 



Subgenus Ccelostemma Dall, type H. elizabethce Pilsbry. 



The first group includes species with an axial plait and usually 

 various other armature. More or less similar structures occur in 

 Gongylostoma. Metastoma has the axis simple, as in typical Urocop- 

 tis and Brachypodella. In Ccelostemma a swollen, vertically cost- 

 ulate axis is found, unlike any Antillean type, although there is 

 some analogy with the subgenus Idiostemma Pils. & Van. 



Genus EUCALODIUM Crosse & Fischer. 



In this Mexican genus the large, solid shell resembles typical Uro- 

 coptis; the axis is solid and sinuous, with a continuous spiral plait, 

 as in the subgenus Arangia P. & V., of Urocoptis. 



The subgenus Oligostylus Pils. 10 has the axis straight and smooth, 

 as in typical Urocoptis. 



These two types of pillar are exactly paralleled also in the genus 

 Macroceramus Gldg. and its subgenus Spiroceramus Pils. & Van. 



Subgenus Anisospira Strebel & Pfeffer. 



An eastern Mexican group, of few species. The soft anatomy is 

 still unknown. It seems to be a subgenus subordinate to Eucalo- 

 dium. 



Genus BERENDTIA Crosse & Fischer. 



Like Spartocentrum, to which it is closely allied ; but with the axis 

 solid, slender and smooth, and the spire tapering, with fewer, more 



9 Proc U. S. National Museum, xix, p. 344, 1896. 



10 See Dall, The Nautilus IX, p. 51 ; Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. XIX, p. 348. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



rapidly widening whorls. The only species, B. taylori Pfr., inhabits 

 the table land of Lower California. 



Genus CCELOCENTRUM Crosse & Fischer. 



The hollow and usually vertically ribbed axis is unlike any of the 

 Antillean types, although radiating spines, such as Dall describes in 

 C. astrophorea, recall certain forms of Gongylostoma. In the section 

 Spartocentrum Dall 11 there is a spiral inflation and no vertical rib- 

 lets. 



Genus CERION (Bolt.) Morch. 

 See Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1896, p. 315. 



This genus has generally been placed in tfye neighborhood of 

 Pupa, but it is not closely allied to that group in shell characters 

 and is entirely diverse in genitalia. It may possibly belong to the 

 Odontostominoz ( Odontostomus, Tomigerus, Anastoma) of South Amer- 

 ica ; but we prefer to associate Cerion with the Holospira and Euca- 

 lodium groups of Urocoptidce. 12 



As this genus has been made the subject of special papers by Dr. 

 W. H. Dall and by the present writers, it need only be said here 

 that it differs from the other genera in being strictly littoral in dis- 

 tribution, never straying far from the sea shore. The Miocene forms 

 (Eostrophia) are probably aberrant rather than primitive, in lack- 

 ing parietal and axial laminae. 



Genus MEGASPIRA Lea. 



A Brazilian group very peculiar in its polygyrate shell with large, 

 rounded nuclear whorls, plicate columella and peculiar internal arma- 

 ture, somewhat recalling Gongylostoma, Idiostemma, etc. This has 

 been described and figured by Gabb. 13 The dentition we have now 

 examined (PI. XVII, fig. 1), the radula having been found in a dry 

 shell. There are 28'1"28 teeth, arranged in slightly sinuous trans- 

 verse rows, and of the type usual in ground snails, much like those 

 of Eucalodium, Berendtia, etc. 



11 See Xautilus IX, p. 51 (Sept., 1895), type Ccelocentrum irregulare Gabb. 

 The genus Teneritia Mabille, Bull. Soc. Philomathique de Paris, (Ser. 8), Vol. 

 IX, p. 79(1897 or 1898) is a synonym of Spartocentrum. Types Berendtia digued 

 and B. minorina Mabille. M. Mabille is perfectly right in separating his 

 group from Berendtia, but he overlooks the only really important differential 

 character, viz., the hollow axis. 



12 Dall has hinted at the same relationship. See Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 XIX, p. 347, 348, 1897. 



13 American Journal of Conchology II, p. 64. 




284 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



Megaspira was placed in the vicinity of Clausilia by Deshayes, 

 who thought the internal structure indicated the presence of a clausi- 

 lium. This inference does not seem justified by the facts of the case, 

 though we are far from denying its possibility ; our specimen with 

 the soft parts dried in shows no trace of a clausilium. Upon the 

 whole, it would appear that Megaspira is an aberrant member of the 

 Urocoptidai, nearest perhaps to Eucalodium among existing genera. 



The South African genus Coelaxis and the Papuan and Australian 

 Perrieria are somewhat similar to the foregoing American genera, 

 but are doubtless correctly referred to Pupidce, near Clausilia. Per- 

 rieria has a complicated internal armature, only partially worked 

 out by Fischer. 



The Colombian Rhodect is probably referable to the Achatinidce, 

 grouping near Subulina Beck (type S. octona). 



TABLE SHOWING GEOSRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF THE UROCOPTID.E. 



Genus Urocoptis 



Section Urocoptis (restricted). 



Section Cochlodinella, 



Section Spirostemma 



Subgenus Arangia 



Subgenus Idiostemma. 



Section Maceo 



Subgenus Gongyiostoma 



Section Pycnoptychia. 



Section Callonia 



Section Sectilumen 



Section Esochara 



Section Gongyiostoma (s.s.).... 



Section Amphicosmia 



Section Tomelasmus 



Genus Brachypodella 



Section Brachypodella (s.s.)... 



Section Strophina 



Section Geoscala 



Section Mychostoma 



Section Apoma 



Genus Epirobia ■ 



Genus Holospira 



Genus Macroceramus 



Genus Anoma (Lia) 



Genus Eucalodium 



Genus Coelocentrum 



Genus Berendtia 



Genus Cerion 



03 

 O 



CO 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



285 



SUGGESTED PHYLOGENY OP THE GENERA AND PRINCIPAL 

 SUBGENERA OF UROCOPTID^E. 



Apoma 



N. Mychostoma 



Ufoscala. 



Congylostomo Siroqhvnn 



\ BBACHYPODELLA 



Idiostemma-~^_-Arangia 



TOOCOPTIS 



ANOMA 



MACEOCEBAMUS 



CERION 



HOL0S„ B f^° B " 



„_,„ BERENDTIA 



ELOCENTRUM ' EUCALODIUM 



Anisospira 



MEGASPIEA 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES. 



Plate XVII. 



Megaspira elata Gld. Half of a transverse row of teeth 

 (the outermost marginals placed above, to the left). 

 Epirobia polygyra (Pfr.). The same, a few outermost 

 marginal teeth lacking. 



Anoma maugeri (Wood). Group of teeth from the median 

 part of the radula. 



Brackypodella (Apoma) elongata (Ch.). Half of a trans- 

 verse row of teeth. 



Urocoptis cylindrus (Ch.), very small variety from Port- 

 land, Jamaica. Half of a transverse row of teeth. 

 Anoma maugeri (Wood). A lateral tooth seen in profile. 

 Urocoptis (Maceo) interrupta (Gundl.). Section of shell. 

 Urocoptis (Tomelasmus) torquata (Morel.). Section of 

 shell. 



Urocoptis (Sectilumen) ornata (Gundl.). 

 Urocoptis (idiostemma) uncata (Gundl.). 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Plate XVIII. 



Fig. 11. Urocoptis cylindrus (Chemn.) (C. rosea var. major C. B. 



Ad.). 



Fig. 12. Urocoptis (Spirostemma) rubra (C. B..Ad.). 



Fig. 13. Urocoptis (Tomelasmus) wrighti (Pfr.) var. 



Fig. 14. Urocoptis (Pycnoptychia) humbohltiana (Pfr.). 



Fig. 15. Urocoptis (Esochora) strangulata (Poey). 



Fig. 16. Urocoptis (Gongylo stoma) pruinosa (Morel.). 



Fig. 17. Urocoptis (Gongylostoma) elegans (Pfr.). 



Fig. 18. Urocoptis (Callonia) dautzenbergiana (Crosse). 



Fig. 19. Brachypodella (Mychostoma) agnesiana (C. B. Ad.). 



Fig. 20. Urocoptis (Arangia) soiverbiana (Pfr.). 



Fig. 21. Brachypodella (Apoma) elongata (Chemn.). 



Fig. 22. Urocoptis (Amphicosmia) salleana (Pfr.). 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



CHITONS COLLECTED BY DR. HAROLD HEATH AT PACIFIC GROVE, 

 NEAR MONTEREY, CALIFORNIA. 



BY H. A. PILSBRY. 



During the summer of 1897 Dr. Heath collected a series of inver- 

 tebrates and fishes for the Academy, including some twenty-four 

 species and varieties of Polyplacophora. As he has kindly engaged 

 to collect again during the present season, a full report on the 

 Chitons, with illustrations of new, unfigured and unusual forms may 

 be deferred until further specimens come to hand ; but it may be 

 well to enumerate the forms already seen, and describe two which 

 seem to be new. 



It is evident that the Mopalias require more study than has yet 

 been given them. At Pacific Grove, the typical muscosa, typical 

 lignosa and typical Hinclsii occur, without, so far as the series seen 

 shows, any specimens of intermediate character. The reference of 

 these to one species may, therefore, have been premature. A Mopalia 

 described below, differs from those hitherto known in the perfectly 

 regular form of the tail valve, which is like that of Ischnochiton, 

 thus breaking down, in large measure, the distinction between the 

 Ischnochitonidce and the Mopaliidce. This lawless species is new, 

 and I have given myself the pleasure of associating the name of my 

 friend Dr. Heath with it. 



The occurrence of two seven-valved adult monsters is also notable. 

 I shall return to these on a later occasion. 



LEPIDOPLETJRID^I. 



Lepidopleurus rugatus Cpr. 

 Lepidopleurus nexus Cpr. 



ISCHNOCHITONID^. 



Tonicella lineata Wood. 



Trachydermon (Cyanoplax) Raymondi Pils. 



A small form of the species, occurring in tide pools. 

 Trachydermon (Cyanoplax) Hartwegi Cpr. 

 Ischnochiton radians Cpr. 



This species is very similar to I. inter stinctus Gld., but the teeth 

 are longer and the slits decidedly deeper. 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Isohnocbiton scabricostatus Cpr. var. 

 Ischnocbiton regularis Cpr. 



One specimen has but seven valves, but in all other respects is 

 perfectly normal. 



Iscb.nocb.iton Mertensii Midd. 

 Iscbnocbiton Cooperi Cpr. 



Iscbnocbiton (decipiens var. ?) sinudentatus Cpr. 

 Ischnocbiton (Stenoradsia) Magdalenensis Hinds. 

 Callistocbiton crassicostatus Pils. 

 Callistocbiton palmulatus var. mirabilis Pils. 

 Cbaetopleura gemmea Cpr. 

 Nuttallina Californica ' Nutt. ' Rve. 

 NuttallinaThomasi Pilsbry, n. sp. 



In tide pools with Tr. Raymondi. See below. 



MOPALIIDiE. 



Mopalia muscosa Grid. Typical. 

 Mopalia muscosa lignosa Gld. Typical. 

 Mopalia muscosa Hindsii 'Sow.' Rve. Typical. 

 Mopalia Heathii Pilsbry. See below. 

 Mopalia ciliata Sow. Typical. 

 Placipborella velata Cpr. 



ACANTHOCHITID.SI. 

 Katharina tunicata Wood. 

 Cryptochiton Stelleri Midd. 



One full grown specimen is 7-valved, otherwise normal. 

 Mopalia Heatbii n. sp. 



Oblong, rather elevated, carinated, with nearly straight side 

 slopes ; surface smoothish to the naked eye, lusterless, and in color 

 (1) olive-green with some lighter spots, or purplish maculation, or 

 slight roseate suffusion, or (2) vivid red, with scattered blue spots. 



Valves shaped as in M. lignosa, but without a median anterior 

 projection of the tegmentum; the intermediate valves very faintly 

 radially trisulcate at the sides, the anterior two grooves defining the 

 low, slight and inconspicuous diagonal rib, the lateral areas not 

 raised ; entire surface very finely and evenly granulate, the granules 

 small, rather pointed, separated, intervals very minutely, radially 

 wrinkle-granulate. Anterior valve with a few faint, shallow radial 

 furrows. Posterior valve with semicircular posterior outline, the 

 mucro in front of the middle of tegmentum, profile of the surface in 

 front of it convex, that of the posterior slope decidedly concave. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



Interior deep rose color or slightly purplish ; sutural laminae and 

 sinus about as in lignosa. Teeth rather long and somewhat rough- 

 ened, as in lignosa. Valve i with 8 slits ; ii-vii with 1-1 ; valve viii 

 entirely " Ischnoid," with regular, crescentic insertion plate, cut by 

 7 or 8 slits, which are somewhat closer posteriorly ; no sinus behind. 



Girdle leathery, nude except for solitary or two or three closely 

 grouped long bristles at all or part of the sutures, one on each side 

 of the head valve, and two behind the tail valve. 



Gills about 25 on each side, not extending quite to the anterior 

 end of the foot. 



Length 25, width 12 mm. (dried specimen), or smaller. 



In one specimen there are 9 bristles on each side and one in the 

 middle in front. Another lacks this median bristle ; and in still 

 another, some of the sutures are without bristles. In all, some of 

 them are broken off close to the girdle, leaving only stumps or pores. 



This form resembles M. simiata and imporcata in the sutural 

 bristles, but differs from them in sculpture and form of the tail valve. 

 The latter is completely as in Ischnochiton, and its form is approached 

 only by M. acuta Cpr., which however, has a slight caudal sinus, 

 much stronger sculpture, more depressed and more posterior mucro, 

 and scattered hairs on the girdle, without sutural bristles. It is 

 also blue-green or pale blue inside, while 31. Heathii is rose colored. 

 One of the specimens was dredged in 17 fms. ; station of the others 

 unknown. 



Nuttallina Thomasi n. sp. 



General form oblong, rather depressed, not keeled dorsally ; sur- 

 face granulose when not eroded. Color blackish or dark brown, 

 with a whitish band on each side of the median line of back, or irre- 

 gular whitish maculation ; girdle dark. 



Intermediate valves short and wide, with a slight or hardly notice- 

 able depression on each side of the jugum, and others in front of and 

 behind the scarcely defined, obsolete, diagonal convexity; the ante- 

 rior and posterior margins subparallel, slightly arcuate. Anterior 

 valve granulate, without radial ribs, the posterior margin excavated 

 mesially. Posterior valve with tegmentum slightly wider than the 

 anterior, the obtuse mucro somewhat behind the middle. 



Interior blue-green, with the area behind the valve-callus dark 

 brown, or livid purplish, with light sutural laminae and blue-green 

 area behind the sinus. Slits in valve i, 9 or 10; valves ii to vii, 

 1-1 ; valve viii, 10 or 11. Teeth rather separated, those of valve i 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



unequal, slightly rugose outside; posterior tooth of valves ii to vii 

 small, very obliquely directed forward ; teeth of valve viii very 

 short, strongly directed forward and roughened. Sinus wide and 

 square, spongy, the area behind it transversely grooved. Eaves 

 rather wide, " spongy " or porous. 



Girdle sparsely covered with short, rigid, obtuse, glossy spines of 

 a blackish-brown color, or occasionally some are whitish. 



Gills in type specimen, 26 on left, 23 on right side ; not quite 

 reaching the anterior end of the foot. In another there are 23 on 

 the left, 25 on the right side. 



Length 15, breadth 8 mm., or smaller. 



Pacific Grove, in small tide-pools 4 to 8 ft. above mean tide mark. 



This species differs markedly from N. Californica (' Nutt.' Rve.) 

 and N. fluxa (Cpr.) 1 in the shorter valves, lack of radial ribs on the 

 anterior and intermediate valves, and more anterior mucro of the 

 posterior valve, and the single slitting of valves ii to vii. I at first 

 considered it a Middendorffia, but the girdle is like that of Ntittal- 

 lina, not having the peculiarly modified spines of the Mediterranean 

 Middendorffia. It lives with a small form of Traehydermon ( Cyano- 

 plax) Raymondi, which is much more numerous in the tide-pools. 

 From that species it may be known by the spiny girdle. Nearly all 

 the specimens collected are much eroded. 



This species may be considered the type of a new subgenus of 

 Nuttallina, with the following differential characters: Intermediate 

 valves with 1-1 slits; anterior valve not radially ribbed ; posterior 

 valve with the mucro post-median, but not terminal. Other char- 

 acters as in Nuttallina. 



At Mr. Heath's request, it is named in honor of Mr. Thomas, who 

 found the first specimens. 



1 =Ch. scaber Rve., 1847, not of Blainville, 1825. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



NOTES ON MR. THOMAS MEEHAN'S PAPER ON THE PLANTS OF LEWIS 

 AND CLARK'S EXPEDITION ACROSS THE CONTINENT, 1804-06. 



BY DR. ELLIOTT COUES. 



Many years ago I prepared for publication in these Proceedings 

 a paper on the plants of Fort Macon, N. C. It never appeared, 

 because I submitted it to Professor Asa Gray, who told me it was a 

 very good one, but asked me what was the use of printing it. Taking 

 the hint to heart, I have from that day to this curbed any aspira- 

 tions I may have felt to botanical authorship ; and it now behooves 

 me to explain why I presume to have anything to say on a botani- 

 cal subject. In fact, I do not now write on Lewis and Clark's 

 plants, but solely on the localities where their plants were procured. 

 I do not pretend to any knowledge of botany, but if there is any- 

 thing I do know, it is exactly where Lewis and Clark were on every 

 day, almost every hour, from start to finish of their famous expedi- 

 tion. Consequently, I can give the precise locality of every speci- 

 men which bears a date in the herbarium that Mr. Meehan recently 

 discovered to be still extant, and thus available for the determina- 

 tion of so many of the type specimens of Pursh's species. This 

 discovery seems to me one of the happiest and most important that 

 could have been made, and I doubt not that Mr. Meehan's identifi- 

 cations of these plants, with the assistance of Messrs. Robinson and 

 Greenman, will be justly regarded as a boon to working botanists. 

 I could wish that these writers had effected what I conceive should 

 have been done to set forth the whole matter in its proper light, but 

 since they did not give the requisite precision to Pursh's generally 

 loose and vague, sometimes wholly erroneous, indications of locality, 

 that duty seems to devolve upon me. 



In reading Mr. Meehan's paper, I have been little short of 

 astounded at the kind of geography which seems to have answered 

 the purposes of the botanists concerned in this case. Nothing of 

 the sort would satisfy a zoologist, I am sure. To describe a new spe- 

 cies upon a type specimen, assigned to " the banks of the Missouri," 

 or to " the valleys of the Rocky Mountains," would not be tolerated 

 in zoology, and should not be endured in botany, when the data 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



required to pin every dated specimen down to the precise spot where 

 it was collected are ample, and easily accessible in the edition of 

 Lewis and Clark which I brought out in 1893. 



Neither praise nor blame attaches to me for any of the botany 

 which appears in that work. As stated in my preface, most of the 

 botanical determinations were those of Mr. F. H. Knowlton, whom 

 I engaged for that purpose, and whose identifications of the plants 

 mentioned or described by Lewis and Clark I accepted without 

 question in any instance. That they should all prove to be correct 

 was not to be expected, and I am now aware of several errors. In 

 the case of the trees, the mistakes have, perhaps, all been detected 

 and corrected in the admirable critical review lately published by 

 Professor C. S. Sargent in Garden and Forest, Nos. 465, 466, Janu- 

 ary 20th and 27, 1897. I could wish that the same searchlight had 

 been turned by Mr. Meehan and his collaborators upon the rest of 

 the botany in my book, and venture to suggest that the whole sub- 

 ject will not be put in its full light or final shape till this has been 

 thoroughly well done. 



Great as are the obligations under which Mr. Meehan and his as- 

 sistants have placed all who are in any way interested in this sub- 

 ject, in the paper which I now proceed to annotate geographically, 

 there remains for some one the agreeable and useful task of review- 

 ing Lewis and Clark's botanical text as distinguished from their 

 specimens. For it is a curious fact, as I find on studying Mr. Mee- 

 han's paper, that the plants of which Lewis and Clark have most to 

 say in their Journal, are not, as a rule, those of which specimens are 

 now extant in their herbarium. Their botany, it may be said, runs 

 in two parallel courses. One of these is represented by the speci- 

 mens which they collected, and which became so many of Pursh's 

 types ; the other, by the herbs, shrubs and trees which they observed, 

 and noted in their narrative, but did not actually collect. Often- 

 times, to be sure, they describe what is in the herbarium, but I 

 should imagine that fifty, if not a hundred species are to be found 

 in the book, no specimens of which are known to be extant. This 

 would appear to me to be a field of research at once alluring and 

 stimulating to some well equipped botanist, and I trust that the 

 work may soon be done once and forever. Lewis and Clark's whole 

 botany could easily be set abreast of the status I have myself been 

 able to confer upon their zoology, their ethnology and their geo- 

 graphy. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



With these remarks, which I trust will be found neither ungra- 

 cious nor presumptuous, I proceed to review Mr. Meehan's paper 

 from a purely geographical point of view. I take his list precisely 

 as it stands, assuming the identifications to be correct in every in- 

 stance, and raising no botanical questions whatever. I only follow 

 the zoologists' rules of nomenclature in writing all specific and sub- 

 specific names with a lower case initial letter, all personal names in 

 the genitive case with a single i, all trinomial names without the in- 

 tervention of " var." — a practice which I think most botanists would 

 like, if they could once get used to it. 



Anemone canadensis L. (A. pennsylvanica L.) 



August 17, 180If. Missouri River, close to the mouth of the 

 creek on which the Omahas resided ; now Omadi Creek, in Dakota 

 Co., Nebraska. L. & C. there August 13-20, 1804. 



Anemone quinquefolia L. 



June 15, 1806. Collins' Creek, a branch of the Kooskooskee ; 

 now Nahwah River, or Lo Lo fork of Clearwater River, in Shoshone 

 Co., Idaho. 



Clematis douglasi Hook. ft MrsuUsaima Pursh, Fl., 384. 



No date. Pursh has " plains of the Columbia, May." L. & C. 

 were not on the Columbia itself in May of either year. In May, 

 1806, they travelled by land approximately up Snake River or 

 Lewis' fork to the mouth of the Kooskooskee, lst-4th, up the Koos- 

 kooskee, 4th-13th, and were at their Camp Chopunnish, on the 

 right bank of the Kooskooskee, nearly opposite but a little below 

 the mouth of Commearp Creek, now known as Lawyer's Canon 

 Creek, till June 10th. This is a notable locality, where many plants 

 were collected in May and June, 1806. The position is in Shoshone 

 Co., across the river from, and nearly opposite, that of present 

 Kamai or Kamiah, in Nez Perces Co., Idaho. 



Delphinium menziesi DC. 



April llf., 1806. On the Columbia River, one day's journey by 

 boat below The Dalles, coming up stream. 



Dentaria tenella Pursh, Fl. 439. 



April 1, 1806. On the Columbia, at the mouth of Quicksand 

 River of L. & C, now called Sandy River. This explains the state- 

 ment of locality in Mr. Meehan's paper as " Columbia near quick- 

 sands." 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898, 



Erysimum aspersum DC. E. lanceolatum Pursh, FI. 436, nee R. Br. 



June 1, 1806. Camp Chopunnish, as above described. This is 

 on the Kooskooskee. But the other specimen which Mr. Meehan 

 adduces from " Rockford Camp, April 17, 1806," is from The Dalles 

 of the Columbia. " Rockford " Camp, elsewhere called " Rocky " 

 or " Rock," is a mistake for Rock Fort or Fort Rock Camp, as L. & 

 C. called it when they were at The Dalles. The position is at the 

 mouth of their Quinett Creek, called Wasco Creek on some maps, 

 and now Mill Creek. The position is one of the best known on the 

 Columbia, Oregon side. L. & C. were there October 17, 1805, 

 going down, and April 15-17, 1806, coming up. 



Cleome integrifolia T. & G. C. serrulata Pursh, Fl. 441. 



August 25, 180 Jf. At or very near mouth of Vermilion River, 

 Clay Co., South Dakota. (Whitestone River of L. & C.) 



August 29, 1806. At or near mouth of White River, Lyman 

 Co., South Dakota. 



Cerastium arvense L. C. elongatum Pursh, Fl. 321. 



April 22, 1806. On the Columbia, between Des Chutes and 

 John Day Rivers (the Towanahiooks and Le Page's Rivers of L. 

 & C). " Plains of the Columbia," as given, is therefore quite 

 right. 



Malvastrum coccineum Gray. Grietaria coccinea Pursh, Fl. 453. 



July 20, 1806. " Plains of the Missouri," as given, is a mistake, 

 unless the phrase is used in a very broad sense. On this date the 

 expedition was widely separated. Lewis was high up on Maria's 

 River near its forks in N. W. Montana ; Clark was on the Yellow- 

 stone, at Camp Cottonwood, above Clark's fork of that river. Clark 

 was busy building boats, and no doubt Lewis collected the plant. 

 The latter botanized that day, as we see by his Journal, p. 1090 of 

 my edition. 



Linum lewisi Pursh, Fl. 210. 



July 9, 1806, and July 19, 1806, for the same specimen ; the dates 

 conflict, but " valleys of the Rocky Mountains," as given, can be 

 right for neither date in 1806, if the locality of this particular 

 specimen is meant. On July 9, 1806, Lewis was on Sun River, at 

 or near Fort Shaw, Montana. On July 19, 1806, he was high up 

 on Maria's River; both of these places are out of the mountains. 

 But probably the label was only meant to indicate the general 

 range of the plant, not the exact locality of the specimen. Peren- 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



nial flax was first noticed by the expedition on the Missouri above 

 the Great Falls " for several days" before July 19, 1805, below, at 

 and above Dearborn's River, in the vicinity, not close, of Helena, 

 Montana. The species then described was identified as L. perenne 

 by Mr. F. H. Knowlton, p. 423 of my edition of the work. Some 

 of the country traversed in July, 1805, distinctly includes "valleys 

 of the Rocky Mountains," and I suspect that " 1806 " should read 

 1805 ; also, that July " 9 " and " 19 " are merely scribal duplication 

 of a single date. 



Claytonia lanceolata Pursh, Fl. 175, t. 3. 



June 27, 1806. "Headwaters of the Kooskooskee" is quite 

 right. L. & C. were on the Lo Lo or Northern Nez Perce Trail, 

 along the divide between sources of both N. and S. forks of that 

 river, in central Idaho. It is the same day on which they notice 

 Erythronium grandiflorum. 



Claytonia perfoliata Don. (In Mr. Meehan's footnote, p. 19.) 



March 26, 1806. On the lower Columbia, above Puget's Island 

 and below the Cowlitz River. 



April 17, 1806. " Rocky Camp," i. e., The Dalles, as above ex- 

 plained. 



Claytonia sibirica L. (In Mr. Meehan's footnote, p. 19.) 



Aprils, 1806. In camp on the Columbia, in Multnomah Co., 

 Oregon, about 10 miles above Quicksand or Sandy River; vicinity 

 of the place called Cape Horn. 



Claytonia linearis Dougl. (In Mr. Meehan's footnote, p. 20.) 



June 27, 1806. As above said for C. lanceolata. 

 Lewisia triphylla Rob. 



June 27, 1806. Same as the last. 

 Lewisia rediviva Pursh, Fl. 368. 



July 1, 1806. At mouth of Traveller's Rest Creek of L. & C, 

 %. e., of the Lou Lou Fork of the Bitter-root River, some 12 miles 

 south of Missoula, Montana. It should be explained " Clark's 

 River," the assigned location of this plant and some others, always 

 means Bitter-root River, in so far as any plants collected are con- 

 cerned. Lewis named Clark's River September 6, 1805, when the 

 expedition was in Ross' Hole near the head of the east fork of the 

 Bitter-root River ; the party went down this river only as far as the 

 Lou Lou Fork just said, up which they turned sharp and so on over 




296 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



the Bitter-root range to the sources of the Kooskooskee. They 

 were never on the Clark's River of modern geography, as the great 

 stream of which the Bitter-root is a collateral head does not now 

 bear Clark's name above the junction of the Bitter- root with Hell- 

 gate River. I may add that Letvisia rediviva, the racine amere (or 

 bitter root) of the French, is the plant from which the river, its 

 valley, and the mountain range on the west derive their name. An 

 alternative name of the Bitter-root was St. Mary's River, imposed 

 by Father P. J. De Smet in 1842. 



Montia parviflora Howell. Claytonia perfoliate/, Pursh, Fl. 176, nee Don. 



March 26, 1806. As above said for Claytonia perfoliate. 

 April 17, 1S06. As above said for Claytonia perfoliata. 



Montia sibirica Howell. Claytonia ahinoides Pursh, Fl. 175. 



April 8, 1806. As above said for Claytonia sibirica. There 

 seems to be a duplication of the record of the same specimens of 

 this and preceding species in Mr. Meehan's main text and footnotes. 



Pachystima myrsinites Raf. Ilex ? myrsinites Pursh, Fl. 119. 



June 16, 1806. On the L,o Lo Trail, vicinity of Hungry Creek 

 of L. & C, a branch of the north fork of the south fork of Koos- 

 kooskee River, next east of Collins' Creek. 



November 16, 1805. In camp on the Columbia in sight of the 

 ocean, at the landward end of Haley's or Baker's Bay, just inside 

 Chinook Point. 



I heartily agree with Mr. Meehan that the name of this genus 

 should be written Pachystigma. 



Ceanothus velutinus Dougl. 

 (No date.) 



Rhamnus purshiana DC. R. alnifolia Pursh, Fl. 166, nee Mchx. 



May 29, 1806. Camp Chopunnish. 

 Rhus canadensis trilobata Gray. 



October 1, 180^. In the Little Bend of the Missouri (Lookout 

 Bend of L. & C), at or near the mouth of Cheyenne River. " First 

 discovered in the neighborhood of the Kancez River," i. e., when 

 L. & C. were about the mouth of Kansas or Kaw River, which was 

 reached June 26, 1804; "now very common" means at the date 

 said, Oct. 1, when they were in the said bend. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297 



Cissus ampelopsis Pers. 



September 14, 1806. " Council Bluffs, Missouri," as given, is not 

 any locality, for Council Bluffs, Pottawattamie Co., Iowa, did not 

 exist in 1806, and the Council Bluff of L. & C. was much higher 

 up and on the other side of the river, where now stands Fort Cal- 

 houn, Washington Co., Nebraska. L. & C. passed it September 8, 

 1806, coming rapidly down river ; they were, therefore, many miles 

 below when they camped at Leavenworth, Kansas, on the 14th, 

 having come 53 miles that day. 



Acer circinatum Pursh, Fl. 267. 



October — , 1805. " Great Rapids of the Columbia." The date can 

 be set closer, as L. & C. did not reach the Cascades till October 30, 

 1805. The vine maple is fully described on p. 834 of my edition, 

 along with Acer macrophyllum. 



Acer macrophyllum Pursh, Fl. 267. 



April 10, 1806. Cascades of the Columbia, on the home voyage. 

 But L. & C. had noticed it in the same region the previous au- 

 tumn. 



Polygala alba Nutt, P. seneca var. tenuifolia Pursh, Fl. 750. 



August 10, 1806. At or near White Earth River of L. & C, 

 now Muddy River, a branch of the Missouri, at whose mouth is 

 Williston, Montana, near the east boundary of the Fort Buford 

 military reservation. (Not modern White Earth River, which is a 

 different stream, much lower down.) 



Amorpha fruticosa angustifolia Pursh, Fl. 466. 



August 27, 1806. Great Bend of the Missouri, as stated. This 

 formation is below Pierre, South Dakota, and just above the Crow 

 Creek Agency. 



Astragalus missouriensis Nutt. 



September 18, year not given. If 1804, one day below the Great 

 Bend of the Missouri, going up ; if 1806, on the Missouri from 

 Grand to La Mine River, within the recent State of Missouri ; most 

 probably 1804. 



Astragalus mortoni Nutt. 



September 15, 180Jf. At or near mouth of White River, Lyman 

 Co., South Dakota. 



September 5, 180J/.. Mouth of the Niobrara River, or within one 

 day above it. 



20 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Lupinus argenteus Pursh, Fl. 468. 



July 7, 1806. " On the Cokahlaishkit " — an interesting locality. 

 This is the River of the Road to Buffalo of L. & C, now the Big 

 Blackfoot River, a branch of Hellgate River. On the 7th Lewis 

 was on its headwaters, as this is the day he went over Lewis and 

 Clark's Pass of the Continental Divide to the Middle Fork of 

 Dearborn's River, thus passing from Deer Lodge County to Lewis 

 and Clark County, Montana. 



Lupinus serioeus Pursh, Fl. 468. 



June 5, 1806. Camp Chopunnish on the Kooskooskee. 



Oxytropis nana Nutt. var. 0. argentata Pursh, Fl. 473. 



July — , 1806. " Near the head of Clark's River " means the Bit- 

 ter-root River at the mouth of its Lou Lou branch, the Traveller's 

 Rest Creek of L. & C, and the date is July 1st or 2d, when Lewis 

 was botanizing as the Journal shows, p. 1065 of my edition. See 

 Trifollum microcephalum, below. 



Petalostemon violaceus Mchx. Pursh, Fl. 461. 



July 22, 1806. " On the Missouri ; " impossible. At this date 

 Lewis was on Cut-bank Creek, one of the main headwaters of 

 Maria's River, in N. W. Montana near the foot of the Rocky 

 Mountains, and Clark was on the Yellowstone. No doubt Lewis 

 collected the specimen. 



September 2d, year not given ; no locality indicated. If 1804, at 

 Bonhomme, South Dakota ; if 1805, on Fish Creek, a tributary of 

 Salmon River, Idaho ; if 1806, at or near James' River, South 

 Dakota. The first and third of these are practically the same 

 locality, as the expedition crossed the years 1804 and 1806 in pass- 

 ing Bonhomme Island on September 1st. I presume the year is 

 1804, for, in the case of the related Psoralea argophylla, collected 

 October 17, 1804, and in the present case of Petalostemon violaceus, 

 Lewis makes similar remarks on the use of these plants by the 

 Indians in decoctions for wounds. 



Psoralea argophylla Pursh, Fl. 475. 



October 17, 1801,.. On the Missouri, very near the mouth of 

 Cannonball River, North Dakota. 



Psoralea tenuiflora Pursh, Fl. 475. 



September 21, 1801,. Great Bend of the Missouri, as stated. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



Trifolium megacephalum Xutt. Lupinaater macrocephalus Pursh, Fl. 479, t. 23. 



April 17, 1806. Rock Fort Camp (not " Rockford ") at The 

 Dalles of the Columbia. 



Trifolium microoephalum Pursh, Fl. 478. 



July 1, 1806. Same spot as Oxytropis nana, above ; here called 

 u Valley of Clark's River." The Journal, p. 1066 of my edition, 

 speaks of " two species " of clover in this valley, one with a very 

 narrow, small leaf and a pale red flower, the other with a white 

 flower, and nearly as luxuriant in its growth as our red clover. 



Amelanchier alnifolia Xutt. Pyrus sanguined Pursh, Fl. 340, in part. 



April 15, 1806. Rock Fort Camp. The species is also recorded 

 repeatedly by L. & C. in widely separated localities ; see my edi- 

 tion, pp. 277, 282, 419, 828. 



Crataegus douglasi Lindl. C. glandnlosue Pursh, Fl. 337. 



April 29 or 19, 1806 ; for dates conflict in main text and its foot- 

 note. If 19th, the place is Celilo Fails of the Columbia; if 29th, 

 mouth of Wallawalla River, on the Columbia, site of old Fort 

 Walla walla and of modern Wallula. It is also elsewhere reported, 

 by L. & C. on the Columbia, much lower down. Mr. Meehan refers 

 to the Journal of January 20, 1806, but there is no allusion to the 

 plant at that date. He evidently means the description of No. 12 

 of the botanical list drawn up at Fort Clatsop ; this is found on p. 

 826 of my edition, but there are no dates in this list. I am sorry to 

 find that Mr. Knowlton has discredited the identification, supposing 

 No. 12 to be Pyrus rivularis. It is correctly given, however, on p. 

 908, March 25, 1806, when the expedition was in the vicinity of 

 Puget's Island. Again, on June 10, 1806 (p. 1041 of my edition), 

 when L. & C. left Camp Chopunnish, they speak of the " purple 

 haw," and Mr. Knowlton there bracketed Viburnum pauciflorum — 

 no doubt in error, as pointed out by Professor C. S. Sargent in his 

 admirable paper on the trees of the expedition in Garden and For- 

 est, No. 466, January 27, 1897, p. 39. 



Geum triflorum Pursh. G. cilatum Pursh, Fl. 352. 



June 12, 1806. Camp on Quamash Flats, the modern Weippe 

 or Oyipe Prairie in Shoshone Co., Idaho, on the Lo Lo Trail near 

 the west base of the mountains. 



Pyrus sambucifolia Cham, and Schl. (?). 



June 27, 1806. On the Lo Lo Trail, same place as Claytonia 

 lanceolata. 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898 



Potentilla anserina L. 



March 13, 1806. Fort Clatsop, L. & C. winter quarters of 1805- 

 06, a short distance up their Netul, now commonly called Lewis and 

 Clark's River, a small stream which falls into the Columbia near 

 its mouth on the Oregon side. 



Potentilla fruticosa L. Pursh, Fl. 355. 



July 5, 1806. " Prairie of the Knobs," as given, is a remakable 

 place on the Cokahlaishkit or Big Blackfoot River, one day west of 

 Lewis and Clark's Pass, in Deer Lodge County, Montana. It is 

 also called Blackfoot Prairie and Stevens' Prairie, but Lewis did 

 not reach it till July 6th. 



Primus demissa Nutt. 



August 10, 1806. " A cherry found near the beaver bents on the 

 Missouri." I do not know what these are, but the place meant is 

 present Beaver Creek, in Flaunery Co., North Dakota, almost on 

 the border of Mountraille Co., about where present White Earth 

 River (not the one so named by L. & C.) falls into the left bank of 

 the Missouri. The Journal of this date, p. 1173 of my edition, 

 has this note : " In the low grounds of the river Captain Clark 

 found today a species of cherry which he had never seen before, 

 and which seems peculiar to this small district of country, though 

 even here it is not very abundant." No identification was offered 

 in my work, as I had no hint of what the species was, and I am 

 particularly j)leased now to find it out. 



Prunus virginiana L. 



May 29, 1806. Camp Chopunnish. 

 Prunus 1 



June 27, 1806. On the Lo Lo Trail, east of Lo Lo Fork (Col- 

 lins' Creek), and west of the main range of the Bitter-root Mount- 

 ains, Shoshone Co., Idaho. 



Prunus ? 



May 7, 1806. Main Kooskooskee River above Colter's or Pot- 

 latch Creek, and below the mouth of the Chopunnish or North Fork. 



Prunus sp. (P. pumila of Mr. Meehan's footnote.) 



May 29, 1806. Camp Chopunnish. 



Purshia tridentata DC. Tigarea tridentata Pursh, Fl. 333, t. 15. 



July 6, 1806. Prairie of the Knobs, as above described for 

 Potentilla fruticosa. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



Rosa woodsi Lindl. 



September 5, 180^. On the Missouri, immediately above the Nio- 

 brara. 



October 18, ISOlf.. On the Missouri, immediately above the Can- 

 nonball, not " at or near Fort Mandan " as Mr. Meehan states, but 

 much below that site, which was not reached till the 26th. Mr. 

 Meehan cites May 18, 1806, Camp Chopunnish, as the date on 

 which L. & C. "saw the wild roses in bloom." I find no allusion 

 to roses in the Journal of that day, but on June 10, 1806, when L. 

 & C. had just left Camp Chopunnish, they " observed two species 

 of wild rose, both of a damask-red color." These Mr. Knowlton 

 supposed to be R. nutkana and R. sayi ?, which names were accord- 

 ingly bracketed in my edition, p. 1041. 



Rubus nutkanus velutinus Brew. 



April 15, 1806. Rock Fort Camp, on the Columbia. 



Rubus spectabilis Pursh, Fl. 348, t. 16. 



March 27, 1806. Lower Columbia River, above Kalama River, 

 in the vicinity of Deer Island. The plant is not mentioned in the 

 Journal of this date, but was discovered by L. & C. in this vicinity, 

 near the mouth of the Multomah or Willamette, November 4, 

 1805 ; see my edition, p. 695. 



Spiraea discolor Pursh, Fl. 342. 



May 29, 1806. Camp Chopunnish. 

 Philadelphus lewisi Pursh, Fl. 329. 



May 6, 1806. Main Kooskooskee River, vicinity of Colter's or 

 Potlatch Creek, below mouth of the North Fork. 



July 4, 1806. " On the waters of Clark's River." This means 

 Hellgate River, between Missoula, Montana, and the mouth of Big 

 Blackfoot River, in Missoula Co., Montana. 



Ribes aureum Pursh, Fl. 164. 



July 29, 1805. Three Forks of the Missouri, junction of Jeffer- 

 son, Madison and Gallatin Rivers. Both currants and gooseberries 

 are mentioned at this date, and one species, which Mr. Knowlton 

 identified from the description as R. oxyacanthoides, is described at 

 length ; fruit large, jet black with crimson pulp, extremely acid, 

 etc. But the original mention of R. aureum is earlier in the work, 

 p. 419, July 17, 1805, when L. & C. were at Pine or Half Breed 

 Island and Rapids, a little below the mouth of Dearborn River. 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



It is here particularly described, along with two other kinds of cur- 

 rants which Mr. Knowlton identified as R. hudsonianum and R. 

 viscosissimum, and two species of gooseberries which he doubtfully 

 referred to R. rotundifolium and R. oxyacanthoides. 

 April 16, 1806. Rock Fort Camp, on the Columbia. 



Ribes menziesi Pursh, Fl. 372. 



April 8, 1806. Columbia River, at the place above said for 

 Montia or Claytonia sibirica. 



Ribes viscosissimum Pursh, Fl. 163. 



June 16, 1806. " Heights of the Rocky Mountains." This means 

 on the Lo Lo Trail over the Bitter-root Mountains, at the same 

 place that Pachystigma myrsinites was procured. 



Clarkia pulchella Pursh, Fl. 260, t. 11. 



June 1, 1806. " Kooskooskee and Clark's River." It is impos- 

 sible for a specimen to have been collected on those two rivers on 

 the same day ; at the date said, L. & C. were in Camp Chopunnish 

 on the Kooskooskee. See Erysimum asperum, above. 



(Enothera csespitosa Nutt. (Pursh, Fl. 735.) 0. Bcapigera Pursh, Fl. 263. 



July 17, 1806. " Near the falls of the Missouri " is correct. 

 Lewis that day went from the Great Falls over to Teton or Tansy 

 River. 



(Enothera heterantha Nutt. 



June llf, 1806. " Squamash flats." This means the Quamash 

 Flats on Weippe or Oyipe Prairie ; same spot where Geumtriflorum 

 was taken on the 12th. 



Sedum stenopetalum Pureh, Fl. 324. 



June 15 and July 1, 1806. On the Lo Lo Trail ; at first date 

 immediately east of the Quamash Flats, at the other date at the 

 mouth of Traveller's Rest Creek in the Bitter-root Valley. 



Label unly of a supposed Amjelica. 



September 3, 1805. On Fish Creek, the north fork of Salmon 

 River, in Lemhi Co., Idaho. 



June 25, 1806. On the Lo Lo Trail in the Bitter-root Mount- 

 ains, on Hungry Creek. 



Peucedanum ? 



April 14, 1806. On the Columbia, at or near Sepulcher Rock, 

 which is an aboriginal burying place about 3 miles below Cataract 

 or Klikitat River. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



Peucedanum leiocarpum Nutt. Smyrnium nudicaule Pursh, Fl. 196. 



April 15, 1806. Rock Fort Camp, at The Dalles of the Colum- 

 bia. 



Peucedanum simplex Nutt. (or /'. triternatum Pursh). 



May 6, 1806. On the main Kooskooskee River ; same place as 

 the supposed Philadelphus leivisi, above. 



Peucedanum utriculatum Nutt.? Phellandrium aquatieum Pursh, Fl. 195. 



June 10. 1806. Near Camp Chopunnish, which L. & C. left that 

 day, travelling north down and nearly parallel with the Kooskoos- 

 kee, past Collins' Creek to the Quaruash Flats. 



One or another of the foregoing species of Peucedanum is the 

 plant called cows, coivas or cowish, and particularly described at 

 no one of the above dates, but at May 9, 1806, p. 999 of my edition, 

 where I call it P. cous. It appears as " cow-weed " in the McVickar 

 edition of the work. 



Cymopterus campestris Nutt.? (Mr. Meehan's suggested identification, in a foot- 

 note). 



April 29, 1806. On the Columbia at the mouth of Wallawalla 

 River. This is the shapelell or shappalell of L. & C. There is no 

 mention of it at this date in the Journal, but the name appears on 

 April 14, 1806, p. 949 of my edition. 



(Label only). 



April 25, 1806. On the Columbia, approaching Umatilla River. 

 At date of May 16, 1806, p. 1014 of my edition, is mentioned " a 

 kind of fennel, called by the Shoshonees yearhah, resembling anni- 

 seed." This is supposed to be yamp, Carum gairclneri or a related 

 species. See also p. 552. 



(Two unidentified Umbellifers). 



April llf., 15, 1806. Below and at Rock Fort Camp on the 

 Columbia. 



Cornus canadensis L. 



June 16, 1806. On the Lo Lo Trail, Collins' Creek to Hungry 

 Creek, with Pachystigma myrsinites, Ribes viscosissimum and Loni- 

 cera ciliosa. 



Lonicera ciliosa Poir. Gaprifolium ciliosum Pursh, Fl. 160. 



June 5 and June 16, 1805. Camp Chopunnish and the Lo Lo 

 Trail. This record is quite right ; but in enumerating the same spe- 

 cies among plants of Fort Clatsop, p. 835 of my edition, I under- 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



stand L. & C. to have been mistaken. While at Quamash Flats, 

 June 10, 1806, L. & C. speak of "the honeysuckle bearing a white 

 berry," which Mr. Knowlton supposed to be Symphoricarpos race- 

 mosus, and so I used the name on p. 1041 of my edition. 



Lonicera involucrata Banks. 



September 2, 1805. " On the waters of the Columbia " does not 

 mean the river itself of that name, but its general watershed. On 

 this date L. & C. were on their Fish Creek, which is the north fork 

 of Salmon River, in Lemhi Co., Idaho. 



July 7, 1806. Sources of Big Blackfoot River, near Lewis and 

 Clark's Pass, in Deer Lodge Co., Montana. 



Achillea millefolium L. A. tomentosa Pursh, Fl. 563, nee Willd. 

 May 20, 1806. Camp Chopunnish. 



Aplopappus spinulosus DC. Amellus spinulosis Pursh, Fl. 564. 



September 15, 180^. On the Missouri, passing mouth of White 

 River, Lyman Co., South Dakota. 



(What has become of the big H with which the name of this 

 genus ought to begin ? Botanists should not tolerate such a Cock- 

 neyism as "Aplopappus." No one can aspire to grammatical pro- 

 priety without an aspirate.) 



Aplopappus sp. 



October — , 1805. L. & C. reached the Columbia itself on the 

 16th, and were on it the rest of the month; prior to that date in 

 October, 1805, they were on the Kooskooskee and Snake Rivers. 



Artemisia cana Pursh, Fl. 521. 



October 1, 1804- In Lookout Bend of the Missouri of L. & C, 

 now called the Little Bend, passing mouth of Big Cheyenne River. 



October 2, 1801/.. A few miles further up the Missouri — practi- 

 cally the same locality as the last. 



Artemisia draounculoides Pursh. A. dracunculus Pursh, Fl. 521, nee L. 



September 15, 180J.. On the Missouri, passing mouth of White 

 River, Lyman Co., South Dakota. 



Artemisia frigida Willd. Pursh, Fl. 521. 



September 2, I8O4. On the Missouri at Bonhomme Island, Bon- 

 homme, South Dakota. 



October 3, 1801/.. On the Missouri, two days above Big Cheyenne 

 River, nearing Little Cheyenne River. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



Artemisia longifolia Nutt. A. integrifolia Pursh, Fl. 520. 



October 1 and 3, 1804-. See preceding species of this genus. L. 

 and C. do not speak of sage brush in their Journal at any of the 

 above dates. On April 14, 1805, when they were on the Missouri 

 between the Little Missouri and present White Earth Rivers, they 

 speak of aromatic plants "resembling the sage, hyssop, wormwood," 

 etc., p. 273 of my edition. 



Artemisia ludoviciana Nutt. ? 



April 10, 1806. " Rockford Camp" as given is impossible, as 

 L. & C. were not at Rock Fort Camp till April 15th that year. 

 On the 10th they had reached the head of tide-water of the Colum- 

 bia, vicinity of Beacon Rock, and were drawing their boats up the 

 Cascades from Brant Island. 



Aster oblongifolius Nutt. 



September 21, 1804- Big Bend of the Missouri, as correctly 

 stated. 



Aster oreganus Nutt. 



October — ,1805. " Lewis River." If on Lewis' River itself the 

 date was October 10— 16th, while L. & C. were descending Snake or 

 Lewis' River from the mouth of the Kooskooskee to the Columbia 

 itself. 



" Bidens-like." 



October — , 1805. " Lewis River," as last said. 



Balsamorrhiza sagittata Nutt. Buphthalmum sagittatum Pursh, Fl. 564. 



April llf, 1S06. On the Columbia, one day below Rock Fort 

 Camp. 



July 7, 1806. Lewis and Clark's Pass of the Continental Divide, 

 near head of Big Blackfoot River, in Dear Lodge Co., Montana. 



Bigelowia graveolens Gray. Chryeocoma dracwncnloid.es Pursh, Fl. 517. 



May 6, 1806. Main Kooskooskee River, below Camp Chopun- 

 nisb. 



October 2, 180 4. Just above Little or Lookout Bend of the Mis- 

 souri ; see Artemisia cana above. 



Bigelowia graveolens albicaulis Gray. Chrysoconia nauseosa Pall, in herb. Pursh, 

 Fl. 517. 



October 15,1805. "On the Columbia River" as given is not 

 quite right, as that day L. & C. were descending Snake River, and 

 did not reach its confluence with the Columbia till the 16th. 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Cnicus edulis Gray. 



March 13, 1806. Fort Clatsop, as correctly given. Mr. Meehan 

 quotes the Journal of January 20th for this species, though nothing 

 is said of it on that date in the Journal as printed. The passage 

 cited by Mr. Meehan occurs in the general account of the botany of 

 Fort Clatsop, where Cnicus edulis is No. 1 of the list, p. 821 of my 

 edition; " shanatanque " of the natives. But it is quite true that 

 the botanical matter begins in Clark's Codex P, p. 89 of the manu- 

 script, at date of January 20, 1806. 



Eriopliyllum caespitosum Dougl. Actinella lanata Pursh, Fl. 560. 



June 6, 1806. Camp Chopunnish. 

 Gaillardia aristata Pursh, Fl. 573. 



July 7, 1806. As above, under Balsamorrhiza sagittata. 



Grindelia squarrosa Dunal. JDonia squarrosa Pursh, Fl. 559. 



August 17, 1801f. Camp near the Omaha village on the Missouri, 

 nearly opposite mouth of Omadi Creek. 



Gutierrezia euthamiae T. & G. Solidago earoihrce Pursh, Fl. 540. 



September 19 and 21, ISOlf. (one of these dates misprinted " 1805 "). 

 Approaching and on the Great Bend of the Missouri. 



Liatris pycnostachya Mchx. 



September 15, 180^. On the Missouri, passing White River. 

 Liatris scariosa Willd. 



September 12, 1801f. Three days below White River, passing 

 Shannon's or AVashinanpi Creek, vicinity of Rosebud Landing, 

 Gregory Co., South Dakota. 



Matricaria discoidea DC. Santolina suaveolens Pursh, Fl. 520. 



June 9, 1806. Camp Chopunnish. 

 Microseris macrochaeta Gr. 



April 17, 1806, " Rock " Camp, as here given, is the Rock Fort 

 Camp already often mentioned. 



Solidago rigida L. 



September 13, 180J.. Two days below White River, on the Missouri. 

 Composite? 



May 27, 1806. Camp Chopunnish. 

 Arctostaphylos uva-ursi Spreng. 



No date. No. 33, Fort Mandan. This fort was occupied Novem- 

 ber, 1804-April, 1805. Mr. Meehan says, in speaking of the name 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



" sacacommis " used for this plant by " Engages," that it is not 

 clear who "Engages" were; but an engage was any hired man of 

 a fur trading company ; the word means precisely the same as em- 

 ploye or employee. Mr. Meehan states that " Professor Knowlton 

 in the notes to Coues' edition of the travels, suggests the name 

 Arctostaphylos pungens for this." But I cannot find A. pungensin 

 my book. Sacacommis is given in four places, p. 139, p. 674, p. 

 729, p. 827, in each instance correctly identified as the bear-berry, 

 A. ura-ursi. This is one of the few botanical identifications that I 

 made myself, as I happened to know the plant very well. 



Arbutus menziesi Pursh, Fl. 282. 



November 1, 1805. Cascades of the Columbia, a little above 

 head of tide-water. 



Gaultheria shallon Pursh, Fl. 283. 



June 20, 1806. " On the coast of the Pacific Ocean," as given, is 

 impossible. At that date L. &. C. were on the Lo Lo Trail in north- 

 ern Idaho. I suppose this date to be a misprint for some day in 

 January, 1806, when L. & C. were at Fort Clatsop, and repeatedly 

 mention the salal, shallun or shellwell with particularity ; see my 

 edition, p. 731, p. 739, p. 791, p. 798, p. 825. The form of the 

 name shallum, adduced by Mr. Meehan, does not occur in my 

 work. 



Vaccinium myrtillus L. ( V. myrtilloides L. in Mr. Median's footnote.) 



June 20, 1806. " Fort Clatsop," as given, is impossible ; see 

 under Gaultheria shallon. 



Vaccinium ovatum Pursh, Fl. 290. 



June 27, 1806. " Fort Clatsop," as given, is impossible ; see 

 under Gaultheria shallon. 



While on the question of Vaccinium, I should much like to know 

 what botanists can make of the " cranberry of the low and viny 

 kind" mentioned by L. and C. in the Fort Clatsop list of plants, 

 No. 11, p. 826 of my edition, and considered by Mr. Knowlton to 

 be V. macrocarpon , ibid. 



Dodecatheon meadia L. 



April 16, 1806. Rock Fort Camp, on the Columbia. In his 

 footnote Mr. Meehan says : " There might have been a specimen 

 collected on the march up the Missouri in 1804, as in the Journal 

 under date April 17th, it is noted that ' violets, doves foot and cow- 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1898. 



slips are in bloom,' the Dodecatheon being probably referred to as cow- 

 slips." But L. and C. were not on the voyage up the Missouri on 

 April 14, 1804 ; they did not start till May 14, 1804, and at date of 

 April 17, 1804, there is not a word about cowslips in the Journal. 

 What Mr. Meehan means is a passage in the meteorological register 

 kept by L. and C. at Camp Dubois, at the mouth of Wood River, 

 which empties into the Mississippi in Illinois, till the date of their 

 departure. The correct quotation for April 17, 1804, is: "the 

 violet, dove's-foot, and cowslip are in blow," p. 1283 of my edition. 

 Mr. Meehan's other citation of "cowslip," at date of April 9, 1806, 

 also found in the meteorological register, p. 1295 of my edition, is 

 correctly referred to the Columbia River. 



Frasera thyrsiflora Hook. Swertia fastigiata Pursh, Fl. 101. 



June lJf., 1806. " Squamash flats," as given, means Quamash 

 flats, on the Lo Lo Trail, west of the Bitter-root Mountains. So also 

 does Pursh's " on the Missouri Flats near the Rocky Mountains," 

 which reads curiously to one who knows the geography of the route. 

 It is wrong by several hundred miles — yet not so far out of the way 

 as some others of his that I could instance. 



Colloma linearis Nutt. 



April 17, 1806. " Rockford "=Rock Fort Camp, on the Col- 

 umbia. 



Gilia aggregata Spreng. Cantua aggregata Pursh, Fl. 147. 



June 26, 1806. Hungry Creek, as given, is correct ; a small trib- 

 utary of the north fork of the south fork of the Kooskooskee, east 

 of Collins' Creek, in the mountains of the Lo Lo Trail. Pursh's 

 "banks of the Mississippi," as cited in Mr. Meehan's paper, is more 

 than a thousand miles out of the way; and if this be an inadvert- 

 ence for " banks of the Missouri," still it is wrong by several hun- 

 dred miles. 

 Polemonium cseruleum L. 



June 27, 1806. One day further east than the last, on the Lo Lo 

 Trail over the Bitter-root Mountains. 



Phacelia oircinata Jacq. P. heterophylla Pursh, Fl. 140. P. scabioscefolia Pursh, 



MS. (typo). 



June 9, 1806. Camp Chopunnish, the day before L. and C. left 

 it. Mr. Meehan's footnote is erroneous in citing " on the Kooskoos- 

 kee, August 9, 1806 " — I presume merely by a slip of the pen. On 

 August 9, 1806, L. and C. were on the Missouri below the mouth of 

 the Yellowstone. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 309 



Phacelia menziesi Torr. Hydrophylhim lineare Pursh, Fl. 134. 



April 17, 1806. Rocky— Rock Fort Camp, on the Columbia — 

 not " on the banks of the Missouri," as Pursh has it. 



Plagiobothrys tenellus Gray. 



April 17, 1806. As the last. 

 Krynitskia sp. ? 



April 17, 1806. As the last. 

 Nicotiana quadrivalvis Pursh, Fl. 141. 



October 12, 180 J,.. " The Ricara's town " said was one of the 3 

 Arikara villages which were flourishing in 1804 within 8 miles 

 above the mouth of Wetarhoo River of L. and C, now Grand 

 River, South Dakota — one of them on Ashley Island, the other two a 

 little higher up, on the right bank of the Missouri. Pursh says of 

 N. quadrivalvis, " the tobacco prepared from it is excellent." That 

 makes me believe he never smoked the nasty stuff. 



Mimulus luteus L. Pursh, Fl. 426. 



July 4, 1806. " On the waters of Clark's River " means Hellgate 

 River, close by Missoula, Montana. 



• Orthocarpus tenuifolius Benth. Bartsia tenuifolia Pursh, Fl. 429. 



July 1, 1806. "Valley of Clark's River" means the mouth of 

 Traveller's Rest Creek, the Lou Lou Fork of the Bitter-root River. 



Pedicularis groenlandica Retz. Pursh, Fl. 426. 



July 6, 1806. " On the low plains on the heath of Clark's River " 

 means Prairie of the Knobs on Big Blackfoot River. 



P. scopulorum Gray ? P. elata Pursh, Fl. 425, nee Willd. 



July 6, 1806. As the last. Nothing is simpler than the geogra- 

 phical explanation of the apparent discrepancies in this identifica- 

 tion and the three preceding ones. The Bitter-root, the Hellgate 

 and the Big Blackfoot are three of the sources of Clark's River, 

 coming together in the vicinity of Missoula. July 1st to 6th Lewis 

 went down the Bitter-root to Missoula, up the Hellgate to the Big 

 Blackfoot, and up the latter to within one day's march of Lewis 

 and Clark's Pass of the Continental Divide. As I have said before, 

 neither Lewis nor Clark ever saw Clark's River as understood by 

 modern geographers. 



Pentstemon diffusus Dougl. 



May 20, 1806. Camp Chopunnish. 




310 PROCEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Synthyris reniformis major Hook. 



June 26, 1806. Hungry Creek, as said. 

 Salvia lanceolata Willd. S. tricJiostemmoirfes Pursh, Fl. 19. 



September 21, 1804- Big Bend of the Missouri, as said. 

 Scutellaria angustifolia Pursh, Fl. 412. 



June 5, 1806. Camp Chopunnish. 



Oxybaphus nyctagineus Sweet. Allionia ovata Pursh, Fl. 97. 



September 1, 180 4-. At or near Bonbomme Island, South Dakota. 

 Atriplex canescens James. Calligonum canescena Pursh, Fl. 370. 



September 21, 1804- Big Bend of the Missouri, as said. 

 Atriplex nuttalli Wats. 



July 20, 1806. " High plains of Missouri " is doubly impossible : 

 there are no high plains in Missouri, and if high plains of the 

 Missouri River be meant, it is wrong ; for at this date Lewis was 

 high up on Maria's River, and Clark was on the Yellowstone. 

 Sarcobatus maculatus Ton-. 1 



July 20, 1806. As last said. This is the " pulpy leaved thorn " 

 of L. & C, p. 325, p. 462, and p. 463, of my edition, there correctly 

 identified by Mr. Knowlton as S. vermicularis. 



Polygonum bistortoides Pursh, Fl. 271. 



June 12, 1806. Quamash flats, as said, but by no means " on the 

 banks of the Missouri," as Pursh says, for there are none such. 

 Among the several Quamash flats described and mapped by L. and 

 C the one where they were on June 12, 1806, is the Weippe or 

 Oyipe Prairie near the west end of the Lo Lo Trail, in Shoshone 

 Co., Idaho. 

 Elaeagnus argentea Pursh, Fl. 114. 



July 6, 1806. Prairie of the Knobs, on Big Blackfoot River. 

 Shepherdia argentea Nutt. Hippophce argentea Pursh, Fl. 115. 



A. No. 39, no date. But date is easily supplied, if the specimen 

 was "obtained at the mouth of the River Quicourre ;" for this is a 

 L. and C. way of spelling L'Eau qui Court, French name of Running 

 Water or Niobrara River, where L. and C. camped September 4, 

 1804; they passed it again September 6, 1806, but that the former 

 date is the one is shown by the fact they speak of sending the speci- 



1 Sarcobatus maculatus Torr., in my paper, was a misprint for Sarcobatus 

 vermicularis Torr. (J. M.) 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



men in a box to Captain Stoddard at St. Louis, and this box started 

 from Fort Mandan April 7, 1805. 



Euphorbia heterophylla L. E. cyathophora Pursh, Fl. 605, nee Willd. 



October £, 1804- On the Missouri, above Big Cheyenne River, 

 and nearing Little Cheyenne River. 



Euphorbia marginata Pursb, FI. 607. 



July 28, 1806. " On the Yellowstone River, M. Lewis." This is 

 impossible, because Lewis was never on the Yellowstone, though he 

 passed its mouth twice ; and at the date said he was on the Missouri 

 above Maria's River, at the Cracon du Nez or Grog Spring, in the 

 vicinity of Fort Benton. Clark was on the Yellowstone at this date, 

 below the mouth of the Bighorn, and above the mouth of Tongue 

 River. 



Madura aurantiaoa. 



(No label.) 

 Betula 1 i. e. Alnus rubra. 



March 26, 1806. Lower Columbia River, between Puget's Island 

 and Cowlitz River. I am pleased to find Mr. Meehan confirming 

 the identification of the black alder several times mentioned by L. 

 & C. and given in my edition as Alnus rubra, p. 698, p. 724, p. 749, 

 p. 833, p. 911. 



Quercus garryana Dougl. 



March 26, 1806. Same place as last said. 

 Quercus macrocarpa depressa Englm. 



September 5, 1801/.. From the Niobrara River, where L. & C. 

 camped on the 4th (not on the 5th), upward. The " White Point " 

 Creek which Mr. Meehan cites in this connection is the White Paint 

 Creek of L. and C, now known as Bazile Creek, which falls into the 

 Missouri next below the Niobrara and on the same side. The date 

 on which L. and C. described this tree particularly is the 16th, not 

 15th, as cited by Mr. Meehan ; they were then camped a short dis- 

 tance above White River, one mile above their Corvus Creek, now 

 known as American Crow Creek. This oak is the one malidentified 

 by Mr. Knowlton in my edition, p. 119, as Q. undulatavar.wrighti, 

 and first referred to Q. macrocarpa by Prof. Sargent, Garden and 

 Forest, No. 465, January 20, 1897, p. 28 — a masterly criticism of the 

 way all the L. & C. trees were handled in my work, and one for 

 which I am profoundly grateful to its distinguished author. 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Populus monilifera Ait. P. angulata Pursk, Fl. 619, nee Willd. 



August — ,1806. Somewhere on the Missouri; location not 

 determinable. 



Populus trichocarpa T. and G. 



j une _ 2806. " Cotton tree of the Columbia." But L. & C. 

 were not on the Columbia in any part of June, 1806, the whole of 

 which month they spent either at Camp Chopunnish or on the Lo 

 Lo Trail iu Idaho. While they were low down on the Columbia 

 they mentioned this species twice, March 25 and 27, 1806 ; see my 

 edition, p. 908 and p. 911, where P. trichocarpa is correctly given. 



Calypso borealis Salisb. Pursh, Fl. 593. 



June 16, 1806. Hungry Creek, as said. 



Iris missouriensis Nutt. I, sibirica Pursh, Fl. 30, nee Wild. 



July 5, 1806. Prairie of the Knobs, on the Big Blackfoot River. 



Allium sp. (Perhaps in part A. angulosum Pursh, Fl. 223. It may be A. reticula- 



tum.) 



April 30, 1806. Neither of the three botanists concerned in this 

 case seem to know what sort of an onion it is. All I know about 

 it is, that if it was collected at the date said, it was not collected "on 

 the waters of the Kooskooskee," as said ; for on April 30, 1806, L. 

 & C. were on the Wallawalla in the vicinity of Touchet River. 



Brodiaea douglasi Wats. B. grandifiora Pursh, Fl. 223, nee Smith. 



April 20, 1806. Great Falls of the Columbia, near Celilo. Mr. 

 Meehan speaks of this as the " hyacinth of Colorado Plains," by slip 

 of the pen for Columbia Plains. The passage of L. & C. which 

 he cites as from the Journal of April 16th, occurs in the meteoro- 

 logical register of that date, p. 1295 of my edition. Mr. Knowlton 

 imagined this hyacinth, as mentioned by L. & C. on April 16th, to 

 be quamash, and so it stands Camassia esculenta on p. 952 of my 

 edition, by egregious error. 



Calochortus elegans Pursh, Fl. 240. 



May 17, 1806. Camp Chopunnish. 



Camassia esculenta Lindl. Phalangium quamash Pursh, Fl. 226. 



June 23, 1806. Quamash flats on the Lo Lo Trail. Pursh is 

 far out with his " upper part of the Missouri " as the location of this 

 specimen. In citing the Journal of June 29, 1806, for the blooming 

 of this species, Mr. Meehan means the meteorological register 

 of that date, p. 1297 of my edition. It should be particularly noted 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 313 



that the Quamash flats of L. & C. of June 29th are not those of 

 June 23d. The latter are on Weippe Prairie, near the west end of 

 the Lo Lo Trail; the former are near the east end of that trail, on 

 Quamash or Glade Creek, also called Prairie and Takon Creek. 

 Both are in Idaho, but over 100 miles apart. 



I do not understand why Mr. Meehan, or Messrs. Robinson and 

 Greenman, should use Camassia eseulenta as the technical name of 

 this plant. The first specific name being quamash Pursh, 1814, and 

 the first tenable generic name being Quamasia Rafinesque, February, 

 1818, the coupling of these as Quamasia quamash is the required 

 name of the plant, as first given by Mr. Coville, Pr, Biol. Soc. Wash. 

 XI, April 21, 1897, p. 64. 



Erythronium grandiflorum Pursh, F1.231. 



June 5, 1806. Camp Chopunuish. 

 Erythronium grandiflorum parviflorum Wats. 



May 8, 1S06. Kooskooskee River, below Camp Chopunnish, 

 near mouth of the north fork of the river. 



Fritillaria lanceolata Pursh, Fl. 230. 



April 10, 1806. Brant Island in the Columbia, at foot of the 

 Cascades, near head of tide water. 



Fritillaria pudica Spreng. Lilium f pudicum Pursh, Fl. 228, t. 8. 



May 8, 1806. Kooskooskee River, below Camp Chopunnish. 



Trillium ovatum Pursh, Fl. 245. 



April 10, 1806. Same place as Fritillaria lanceolata. 



Trillium petiolatum Pursh. Fl. 244. 



June 15, 1806. On the Lo Lo Trail, on or near Collins' Creek. 



Veratrum viride Ait. or V. californicum Dur. 



June 25, 1806. On the Lo Lo Trail, on or near Hungry Creek. 



Xerophyllum tenax Nutt. Helonias tenax Pursh, Fl. 243. 



June 15, 1806. Same place as Trillium petiolatum. 



Zygadenus elegans Pursh, Fl. 241. 



July 7, 1806. Head of Cokalahishkit or Big Blackfoot River, 

 near Lewis and Clark's Pass. 



Aira brevifolia Pursh, Fl. 76 (or Poa tenui/olia Nutt.). 



June 10, 1806. At or near Camp Chopunnish, which L. & C. 

 left this day. 



21 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Hordeum jubatum Pursh, Fl. 89. 



March 13, 1806. Fort Clatsop. 



July 12, 1806. White Bear Islands of L. & C, still so called, 

 in the Missouri near mouth of Sun River, above the Great Falls, 

 adjoining city of Great Falls, Cascade Co., Montana. 



Festuca ovina L. var. 



June 10, 1806. See under Aira brevifolia. 

 Agropyron divergens Nees. Festuca spicata Pursh, Fl. 83. 



June 10, 1806. As last. 

 Koeleria cristata Pers. Pursh, Fl. 85. 



June 10, 1806. As last. All the grasses of this date reported 

 as from " Plains of the Columbia," where none of them were col- 

 lected. 



Stipa spartea Trin. S.juncea Pursh, Fl. 72, nee L. (S. comata Trin., fide Scribner). 



July 8, 1806. East base of Continental Divide, in Lewis and 

 Clark Co., Montana, about headwaters of north fork of Dearborn 

 River and of Sun River. 



Zizania aquatica L. 



No. 59. September 8th, year not said. If 1804, on the Missouri 

 near Fort Randall, South Dakota. If 1 805, in the Bitter-root Valley, 

 Montana. If 1806, on the lower Missouri between the Council Bluff 

 and the mouth of the Platte. 



Spartina gracilis Trin. ? 



(No label.) 

 Pinus ponderosa Dougl. 



October 1, 1805. In Canoe Camp, on the main Kooskooskee, at 

 the mouth of its north fork, or Chopunnish River of L. & C. 



Juniperus communis L. 



October 17, 1801/.. On the Missouri, a little below Cannonball 

 River — same place as Psoralea argophylla. 



Juniperus ocoidentalis Hook. J. excelsa Pursh, Fl. 647. 



October 2, 1801^. In the Little or Lookout Bend of the Missouri, 

 at or near mouth of Big Cheyenne River. 



Juniperus sahina procumbens Pursh, Fl. 647. 



October 16, 1801/. On the Missouri at or near Fort Yates, North 

 Dakota. This is far from being " within the Rocky Mountains," 

 Pursh. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



Equisetum arvense L. 



August 10, 1801/. On the Missouri, above Little Sioux and below 

 Big Sioux River ; Monona Co., Iowa, on the right hand going up ; 

 Burt and Blackbird Counties, Nebraska, on the left. 



Aspidium spinulosum Sw. 



June 20, 1806. " Fort Clatsop ; " but date impossible, as L. & 

 0. were on the Lo Lo Trail in Idaho at this date. Probably " June " 

 is here in error for January. 



Lomaria spicant Desv. Blechnum boreale Pursh, Fl. 669, nee Willd. 



June 20, 1806. " Fort Clatsop ; " impossible ; see last. 

 Hypnum oreganum Sull. 



June 20, 1806. " Fort Clatsop ;" impossible ; see Aspidium 

 spinulosum. 



Bazzania trilobata (L.). S. F. Gray. 



July 1, 1806. Mouth of Traveller's Rest Creek, or Lou Lou 

 Fork of Bitter-Root River. 



Egregia menziesi (Turn.) Aresch. (Phyllospora menziesi.) 



November 17, 1805. Mouth of the Columbia River. 

 Sorbus microcarpa Pursh. 



September J/., 1805, and June 27, 1806. Two different specimens, 

 as well as dates, may be in question. In any event, on September 4, 

 1805, L. & C. passed over the Bitter-root range from Idaho into 

 Montana, from Fish Creek, the north fork of Salmon River, to Ross' 

 Hole, near the head of the east fork of the Bitter-root River; and 

 on June 27, 1806, they were on the Lo Lo Trail, in the Bitter-root 

 Mountains, nearing its east end, about to pass from Idaho into Mon- 

 tana, but at a place 100 miles or more distant from the other. The 

 two situations, however, I should suppose to be practically identical, 

 from a botanical standpoint. 



(Label only.) 



April 11/., 1806. On the Columbia, one day below Rock Fort 

 Camp. 



Phlox speciosa Pursh, Fl. 149. 



May 7, 1806. Not " on the Plains of the Columbia," as said, but 

 on the main Kooskooskee River, below Camp Chopunnish. 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



LIST OF BATS COLLECTED BY DR. W. L. ABBOTT IN SIAM. 

 BY GERRIT S. MILLER, JR. 



During the year 1896, Dr.'W. L. Abbott made an extensive col- 

 lection of mammals in the State of Trong, Lower Siam, a region 

 whose fauna has hitherto been practically unknown. The collection, 

 which Dr. Abbott has presented to the United States National Mu- 

 seum, includes sixty-one bats, all but six of which were sent to 

 Washington in formalin. Eleven species are represented. Three 

 of these prove to be new, while several others are of special interest. 

 Considerable time must elapse before it will be possible to prepare a 

 complete account of Dr. Abbott's Malayan collections. Meanwhile 

 it seems advisable to publish a list of the bats that he has thus far 

 taken, and the following is printed here by permission of the 

 Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 



Pteropus medius Temminck. 



One skin (9 young adult, No. 83,277) taken on April 15, 1896 

 I refer with some hesitation to this species. Its measurements are 

 as follows : head and body, 260 j 1 expanse of wings, 1,296 j 1 forearm, 

 175 ; thumb (with claw), 75 ; second finger, 127 ; third finger, 315 ; 

 fourth finger, 246 ; fifth finger, 230 ; tibia, 85 ; foot (with claws), 55 ; 

 ear from meatus, 39 ; ear from crown, 37 ; width of ear, 22 ; skull : 

 basal length, 167 ; basilar length (Hensel), 164 ; palatal length, 39 ; 

 palatal width (anterior end of first molar), 13.4 ; zygomatic breadth, 

 36; breadth across postorbital processes,28; length of nasals, 20; great- 

 est breadth of nasals, 6 ; maxillary tooth row (exclusive of canine), 

 20 ; crown of first molar, 6.6x4 ; canine at level of cingulum, 4x3.2 ; 

 greatest length of mandible, 56 ; depth of nrandible at anterior base 

 of first molar, 6.6 ; depth of mandible through angular and coronoid 

 processes, 24 ; mandibular tooth row (exclusive of incisors and ca- 

 nine) 27 ; crown of first lower molar, 6x3.4 ; lower canine at level 

 of cingulum, 2.8x3. 



Cynopterus angulatus sp. nov. 



Type. — Adult $ (in alcohol), No. 83,569, United States National 

 Museum, Trong, Lower Siam, collected in 1896 by Dr. W. L. Abbott. 



1 From fresh specimen by collector. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



General characters. — Size medium (forearm 60-70) ; tail well- 

 developed ; incisors | ; ear conspicuously rimmed with white ; poste- 

 rior border of ear conch with well-developed angular projection im- 

 mediately above base ; general color dull rufous. 



Ears. — Ears about double length of muzzle; laid forward they 

 reach to anterior corner of eye. General form of ear as in Cynoj)' 

 terus brachysoma (see Dobson, Monograph of the Asiatic Chiroptera, 

 p. 28), but projection at base of outer margin sharply angled instead 

 of bluntly rounded. Tip of conch rather narrowly rounded off. A 

 slight, though distinct, concavity in posterior border immediately 

 below tip. Rim of ear with a conspicuous whitish border, about 1.5 

 mm. wide near base and narrowing to a mere trace at tip, but never- 

 theless continuous. Area occupied by white border on anterior mar- 

 gin distinctly thickened. Inner surface of ear conch with six in- 

 distinct cross ridges. Basal third of ear furred externally, the 

 remainder naked inside and out except for a few hairs along ante- 

 rior margin. 



Membranes. — Membranes thick and leathery, broad and ample. 

 Interfemoral membrane deeply emarginate, only 6 mm. wide in 

 middle. Wings from sides of back and middle of outer toe. 



Fur and color. — Throughout the body the fur is short and scant, 

 that on the middle of back only 6 mm. in length. In males it is dis- 

 tinctly longer on sides of neck (10 mm. in type), and in both sexes 

 it is much shorter on throat and on sides of body (this especially 

 noticeable in females). The fur of the body extends to middle of 

 forearm, both above and below, but does not reach the membranes 

 except in middle of uropatagium. Propatagium thinly haired below 

 through proximal half. Wings with scattered hairs below along 

 sides of body and behind forearm. 



General color of two males (skins) burnt umber, to a varying ex- 

 tent tinged with red and overlaid with olivaceus, darker on crown 

 of head and paler along middle of belly. A female is paler through- 

 out, the general color more closely approaching the chestnut and 

 russet of Ridgway. Ears and membranes of dry specimens black- 

 ish, the former edged with dirty yellowish-white. Metacarpals and 

 phalanges of fingers varied with whitish, which irregularly involves 

 the membrane close to the bone. 



Skull. — The skull is strongly built and moderately angular. Old 

 individuals show a tendency to form a sagittal crest. Face line 

 slightly concave immediately behind tip of rostrum, then nearly 




318 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



straight to highest point about over middle of brain case. Frontal 

 region with a broad longitudinal groove running from between post- 

 orbital processes to within about 3 mm. of tip of rostrum. Post- 

 orbital processes well-developed, about 4 mm. long. Extent of bony- 

 palate behind molars equal to distance between second premolars. 



Teeth. — Upper incisors in pairs, the outer tooth slightly smaller 

 than the inner. First upper premolar about as large as inner in- 

 cisor, occupying less than half the space between canine and second 

 premolar. Crowns of second and third premolars about equal 

 when viewed from above, the first much the larger when viewed 

 from the side. Molar about equal to third premolar, but with 

 slightly narrower crown. Outer lower incisors distinctly larger than 

 inner, the incisor row slightly bowed outward. First lower premolar 

 more than double as large as first upper premolar, and like it occu- 

 pying the middle of the space between the canine and second pre- 

 molar. Crowns of second and third premolars and first molar sub- 

 equal when viewed from above, but regularly graded in height from 

 before backward when viewed from the side. Second lower molar 

 about one-third as large as first and equal to first premolar. 



TABLE OF MEASUREMENTS OF CYNOPTERUS ANGULATUS. 



Number 



Sex 



Total length 



Tail 



Tibia 



Foot 



Calcar 



Forearm 



Thumb 



Second finger 



Third finger 



Fourth finger 



Fifth finger 



Ear from meatus 



Ear from crown 



Width of ear 



Skull: Basal length 



Basilar length of Hensel 



Greatest length 



Zygomatic breadtb 



Width across postorbital processes 



Width immediately behind postorbital 

 processes 



Length of palate 



Breadth of palate at anterior border of 

 molar 



Upper tooth row exclusive of incisors 



Length of mandible 



Depth of mandible at anterior border of 

 second premolar 



Depth of mandible through angular and 

 coronoid processes 



Lower tooth row 



84491 



25 

 14 



7 

 65 



27 

 24 

 29 

 19 

 12 



6.4 

 13 



6.4 

 10 

 22.6 



2.8 



11.8 

 11 



*Type. 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



319 



General remarks. — Cynopterus angulatus bears a strong resem- 

 blance to C. marginatum, but is readily distinguishable by its consid- 

 erably smaller size and by the form of the ear. It is larger than C. 

 brachysoma, the only other known species with similarly formed 

 ear, and quite different in color. 



This bat is represented in Dr. Abbott's collection by two skeletons, 

 three skins with skulls, and six specimens in formalin. 



Khinolophus trifoliatus Teinnrinck. 



Four specimens in formalin. For measurements see table. 

 Rhinolophus affinis Horsfield. 



Four specimens in formalin. 



TABLE OF MEASUREMENTS OF RHINOLOPHUS TRIFOLIATUS AND 



R. AFFINIS. 



Number 



Sex 



Total length 



Tail 



Tibia 



Foot 



Calcar 



Forearm 



Thumb 



Second finger 



Third finger 



Fourth finger 



Fifth finger 



Ear from meatus 



Ear from crown 



Width of ear (exclusive of antitragus) 



Length of nose leaf from lip 



Greatest width of nose leaf 



R. trifoliatus. 



R. affinis. 



83525 

 d 

 96 

 38 

 26 

 11 



16.4 

 53 

 7 

 38 

 87 

 71 

 74 

 26.4 

 22 

 19 

 19 

 12 



83537 



9 

 104 



38 

 25 

 12 

 12 

 53 

 8.4 

 37 

 90 

 71 

 78 

 27 

 23 

 18 

 20 

 12 



83540 



9 

 87 

 25 

 24 

 10 



7 

 50 



7.6 

 41 

 74 

 64 

 65 

 22 

 18 

 16 

 15 



9 



83571 

 <? 

 85 

 25 

 25 

 10.6 

 10 

 51 

 9 

 42 

 78 

 64 

 65 

 22 

 18 

 16 

 16 

 9.4 



Hipposideros larvatus (Horsfield). 



One skin and ten specimens in formalin. 



The form occuring in Trong differs considerably from the Hippo- 

 sideros larvatus of Dobson and Blanford, which is represented in the 

 National Museum collection by two specimens (in alcohol) taken at 

 Bhano, Upper Burma, by Fea. As the type of Phyllorhina lar- 

 vata Horsfield came from Java, the probabilities are that if either 

 of the mainland forms is referable to the typical subspecies, it is the 

 one inhabiting the southern half of the Malay Peninsula. Assum- 

 ing this to be the case, the form of Hipposideros larvatus found in 

 Assam and Upper Burma is unnamed. As compared with the 

 northern and better known form, that from Trong is slightly smaller 

 in general size. The foot is disproportionately smaller, and the ear 




320 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



is narrower in proportion to its length. The skull is smaller and the 

 teeth, especially in the lower jaw, are comparatively slender and 

 weak. 



TABLE OF MEASUREMENTS OF TWO FORMS OF HIPPOSIDEROS LARVATUS. 



Megaderma spasma (Linnaeus). 



An adult male in formalin and one skin. The latter is an adult 

 female taken on March 28, 1896. On the lahel of this specimen Dr. 

 Abbott has written : " Uterus contained a fetus about two inches in 

 length and hairless. Discoidal placenta about f inch in diameter." 



While this bat is clearly not related to Megaderma lyra, I am not 

 satisfied that it is the M. spasma of Dobson and Blanford. From 

 the descriptions of the latter species it differs in the following char- 

 acters : skull with small but evident postorbital processes (more pro- 

 nounced than in Dobson's figure of M. lyra) ; mesopterygoid fossa 

 divided by a central longitudinal ridge in its anterior half only ; 

 first upper premolar very small and partly hidden by cingulum of 

 second premolar which is almost, or quite, in contact with canine ; 

 inner basal cusp of upper canine indistinct ; middle lower incisors 

 trifid ; posterior branch of tragus apparently longer ; free upper part 

 of nose leaf with very strongly convex sides and a deep constriction 

 at base; heart shaped supplemental leaf above nostrils barely reach- 

 ing edge of principal leaf. 



Measurements : head and body, $ , 77 ; head, $ , 28 ; tibia, $ , 32, 

 9, 32; foot, S, 16,9, 15; calcar, $ 13.4,9 , 11; forearm, S , 57 ; 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



thumb, $ , 16.4, 9 , 18 ; second finger, $ , 51, 9 , 51 ; third finger, S , 

 100, ? , 101 ; fourth finger, 2 , 78, 9 , 73 ; fifth finger, S , 79, 9 ,78 ; 

 ear from meatus, $ , 38, 9 , 33 ; ear from crown, $ , 32, 9,27; width 

 of ear, £ , 25, 9 , 23 ; tragus (from posterior base) to posterior tip, 

 $ , 20, 9,19; tragus (from posterior base) to anterior tip, $ , 11.4, 

 9,10; nose leaf from edge of upper lip, $ , 12.4, 9,12; greatest 

 width of nose leaf (2 mm. below tip), $ , 7.4, 9 , 7.8. 



Skull : basilar length, $ , 18 ; greatest length, $ , 24.6, 9 , 25 ; 



length of bony palate in median line, $ , 6.2 ; zygomatic breadth, $ , 



15 ; breadth across postorbital processes, $ , 5.8, 9 , 5.6 ; upper tooth 



row, $ , 10, 9 , 9.6 ; mandible, $ , 17.8, 9 , 17 ; mandibular tooth row, 



^,11.6,9,11.4. 



Tylonycteris pachypus (Temminck). 



Twenty-eight specimens in formalin. 



The genus Tylonycteris, although currently united with Vespertilio 

 (— " Vesperus ") appears to be perfectly valid. It may be defined as 

 follows : Dental formula (as in Vespertilio), i, ^ 2 ; c, -^ ; pm, ~i ; 

 m, iLz 3 — 32 ; skull very broad and flat, with greatly reduced rostrum 

 and no trace of sagittal crest; ball of thumb and sole of foot pro- 

 vided with broad, disc-shaped pads. 



Four specimens from Buitenzorg, Java, agree in size with those 

 from Trong, but in color they are much lighter. This difference 

 may be due to alteration in color resulting from long immersion in 

 alcohol. The Javan specimens were collected by G. B. Ferrari, and 

 have been in the National Museum since 1890. 



Scotophilia kuhli Leach. 



An adult female and three young. 



The genus represented by this bat is so closely related to the 

 North American Nycticeius that it is doubtful whether the two can 

 be regarded as distinct." The characters pointed out by Dobson, 

 however, appear to be of nearly as much importance as those separ- 

 ating Nycticeius and Rhoge'essa. 



My otis muricola (Hodgson). 



Four specimens in formalin. These are chiefly interesting from 

 the fact that they formed part of the meal of a nocturnal, bat-eating 

 hawk, Machcerhamphus alcinus. 



Kerivoula minuta sp. now 



Type. — Adult $ (in alcohol), No. 83,547, Trong, Lower Siam, 

 September, 1896. Collected by Dr. W. L. Abbott. 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



General characters. — About the size of the Bornean Kerivoula 

 pusilla Thomas, 2 but with shorter ears, feet and legs, less hairy wings, 

 and more uniform coloration. Upper incisors bicuspidate; crowns 

 of upper premolars with transverse diameter equal to or slightly 

 greater than antero-posterior diameter. 



Ears. — The ears are relatively shorter than in K. hardwickii ; laid 

 forward they reach to nostril. Anterior border extremely convex, 

 much more so than in K. hardwickii, but probably about as in K. 

 pusilla. Posterior border with sub terminal concavity very shallow 

 and close to tip of ear. Tragus essentially as in K. hardwickii, but 

 with a distinct notch immediately above anterior base. 



Membranes. — Membranes very thin and delicate, light brown with 

 irregular pellucid mottling. The specimen is in an excellent state 

 of preservation, so that this mottling of the membranes must be re- 

 garded as a normal character. Wings essentially naked as in K. 

 hardivickii; uropatagium more hairy. The fur of the body extends 

 along the base of the wings in a very narrow line only ; beyond this 

 a few inconspicuous hairs are scattered over the area bounded ex- 

 ternally by the line from elbow to knee. Proximal half of inter- 

 femoral membrane rather thickly sprinkled with yellowish hairs, 

 which extend along the legs to feet. 



Fur and color. — Fur long and soft, but not dense ; that on mid- 

 dle of back about 10 mm. in length. 



Color ochraceus buff throughout, scarcely paler on the belly, the 

 hairs of the back faintly tipped with rufous. Except on the head and 

 membranes the hairs are everywhere plumbeous at base. 



Skull. — Skull much smaller than that of K. hardwickii, but with 

 relatively broader and heavier rostrum. Brain case much more in- 

 flated anteriorly than in K. hardwickii. 



Teeth. — Each upper incisor bicuspidate, relatively smaller than in 

 K. hardwickii ; the outer separated from the canine by a distinct 

 space. First and second upper premolars subequal in all dimen- 

 sions, the transverse diameter of each equalling or slightly exceeding 

 the antero posterior diameter. Crowns of molars relatively narrower 

 than in K. hardwickii. Two inner lower incisors trifid and each 

 considerably smaller than the unicuspid outer incisor. Lower pre- 

 molars essentially like those of the upper jaw. 



Measurements. — Total length, 70 ; head and body, 31 (33) 3 ; tail, 



2 Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 6th ser., XIV, p. 461, December, 1894. 



3 Measurements in parenthesis are those of the type of K. pusilla, an adult 

 female, as given by Thomas in the original description. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



35 (39); tibia, 11.4 (14); foot without claws, 4.4 (6.2); foot with 

 claws, 5.2; calcar, 9; forearm, 27 (28); thumb, 4; second finger, 

 27 (28.5) ; third finger, 58 (56) ; fourth finger, 44 ; fifth finger, 42 ; 

 ear from meatus, 10 (11.6); ear from crown, 8; width of ear, 10; 

 distance between tips, 21 (25) ; tragus, 6.4. Skull: greatest length, 

 11.4; zygomatic breadth, 7; length of palate in median line, 5 j 

 upper tooth row (exclusive of incisors), 4.6 ; mandible, 8.8 ; lower 

 tooth row (exclusive of incisors), 4.8. 



General remarks. — Kerivoula minuta is in no way closely related 

 to K. hardivickii or to any of the species hitherto known from the 

 mainland of Asia. Its relationships are wholly with the small 

 Bornean form recently described by Mr. Thomas as K. pusilla. 



Dr. Abbott secured only one specimen of this species. 



Emballonura peninsularis sp. nor. 



Type. — Adult $ (in alcohol), No. 83,575, United States National 

 Museum, Trong, Lower Siam, November, 1896. Collected by Dr. 

 W. L. Abbott. 



General characters. — In general appearance most like Emballo- 

 nura vionticola Temminck, one of the smaller" members of the genus, 

 but in size slightly surpassing E. semicaudata (Peale), the largest 

 species hitherto known. 



Ears. — Ears moderate ; when laid forward they extend slightly 

 beyond nostril. Anterior margin straight from base (over middle 

 of eye) to about middle, whence it is faintly convex to slight con- 

 cavity immediately below tip. Tip very narrowly rounded off. 

 Posterior border concave immediately below tip, then gently and 

 evenly convex to faint notch opposite base of tragus, after which it 

 is more abruptly convex to base, which is distinctly below line of 

 lower lip. Inner surface of conch with thirteen cross striations 

 arising near posterior border and disappearing shortly beyond mid- 

 dle. 



Tragus with anterior and posterior borders nearly parallel, though 

 on close inspection each is seen to be very faintly concave. As a 

 result the tragus is slightly narrower at mid height than at base or 

 immediately below the bluntly rounded tip. Whole periphery of 

 tragus faintly crenulate. A trace of a lobe on posterior margin just 

 below level of anterior base. 



Membranes. — The membranes are full and ample, but in no way 

 peculiar. Wings from ankles. Uropatagium including tail to base 

 of penultimate vertebra. Distance from tip of tail to free edge of 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



membrane considerably more than length of tail. Upper surface of 

 uropatagium thinly furred to line of tip of tail. Lower surface of 

 uropatagium rather thickly sprinkled with short hairs along veins 

 except near legs. Wings naked except where fur of body extends 

 both above and below to line joining middle of humerus with lower 

 third of femur. 



Fur and color. — Fur of middle of back about 11 mm. in length. 

 Face and muzzle practically naked. Fur of head covering basal 

 third of ears. 



Dorsal surface uniform dark sepia ; under parts much paler, very 

 near the broccoli brown of Ridgway. Hairs everywhere, both above 

 and below, indistinctly whitish at base. Muzzle, ears and mem- 

 branes blackish. 



Feet. — The feet are slender, a little less than half as long as tibia 

 and considerably more than half as long as calcar. Calcar slender, 

 weak and ill-defined, 3-5 mm. shorter than tibia, terminating in a 

 small lobe. 



Skull. — Skull thin and papery ; muzzle about J as wide as brain 

 case, slightly inflated laterally, and with a deep central longitudinal 

 groove ; postorbital processes long and very slender, reaching almost 

 to highest point of zygomata; brain case strongly inflated poste- 

 riorly. Measurements of two skulls: No. 83,574, 9 adult ; greatest 

 length, 14; basilar length, 10.4; zygomatic breadth, 8.8; greatest 

 anteorbital breadth, 5.8 ; palatal length, 4 ; width of palate between 

 posterior molars, 3.4 ; length of upper tooth row (exclusive of in- 

 cisors) 5.2 ; mandible, 9.6 ; lower tooth row (exclusive of incisors), 

 5.6. No. 83,556, $ adult ; greatest length, 14 ; basilar length, 10.4 ; 

 zygomatic breadth, 9 ; greatest anteorbital breadth, 5.4 ; length of 

 postorbital process, 3 ; palatal length, 4 ; width of palate between 

 posterior molars, 3 ; length of upper tooth row (exclusive of incisors), 

 5.2 ; mandible, 9 ; lower tooth row (exclusive of incisors) 5.4. 



Teeth. — The teeth are essentially as in the E. monticola of Dobson, 

 except that the first upper premolar is tightly wedged between the 

 canine and second premolar, and the first lower premolar is very 

 much smaller than the second in cross section. 



General remarks. — Emballonura peninsitlaris needs comparison 

 with only one species, the E. monticola of Temminck. 4 I have seen 

 no specimens from Java, the type locality of this form, but Tem- 



4 Van der Hoeven's Tijdschrift voor Naturlijke Geschiedenis en Physiol- 

 ogie, V, p. 25, 1838. 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



325 



niinck's original description is so full that it furnishes a satisfactory 

 basis for comparison. In passing it may be remarked that the 

 Philippine bat referred by Dobson to E. monticola? is probably a dis- 

 tinct species from either the Javan or peninsular forms, as the dis- 

 crepancies in measurements are too great to be the result of mere 

 individual variation. 



From E. monticola the peninsular form differs chiefly in its larger 

 size (forearm 43-45 instead of 40, extent of wings about 280 instead 

 of 215-230) and longer tail (see table of measurements). None of 

 the Trong specimens show the snuff-colored head and fore-neck men- 

 tioned as occasionally occurring in E. monticola. The fur of the 

 ventral surface of the body is nearly as noticeably whitish at base 

 as that of the back, while in E. monticola it is said to be brown at 

 base. As shown in the table of measurements, Emballonura penin- 

 sularis slightly exceeds E. semicaudata in size. It is thus the largest 

 known species of the genus. 



Dr. Abbott secured seven specimens, all of which were sent to the 

 National Museum in formalin. 



TABLE OF MEASUREMENTS OF EMBALLONURA MONTICOLA, E. SEMICAUDATA 



AN E. PENINSULARIS. 



Number , 



Sex , 



Total length 



Tail 



Width of interformal men 



brane beyond tail , 



Tibia 



Foot 



Calcar 



Forearm 



Thumb 



Second ringer 



Third finger 



Fourth finger 



Fifth finger , 



Ear from meatus 



Ear from crown 



Width of ear 



Tragus 



Width of tragus at tip 



E. peninsularis. 



83578 

 cf 

 60 

 15 



21 

 16 



6.4 

 13 

 45 



7 

 39 

 75 

 51 

 48 

 11.4 

 10 

 10 



5 



1.6 



5 Catal. Chiroptera Brit. Mus., p. 361-362. 



6 Luzon, Philippine Islands (from Dobson). 



7 Java (from Temminck). 

 * Type. 




326 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



DESCRIPTIONS OF FIVE NEW PHYLLOSTOME BATS. 

 BY GERRIT S. MILLER, JR. 



The greater part of the material on which are based the descrip- 

 tions of the following five new bats is contained in the United States 

 National Museum, and the descriptions are published here by per- 

 mission of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. An impor- 

 tant collection from Jamaica, sent by the Museum of the Institute of 

 Jamaica to the United States Department of Agriculture, and sub- 

 mitted to me for determination by Dr. C. Hart Merriam, includes 

 topotypes of the little known Natalies micropus Dobson, and the 

 unique type of Reithronycteris aphylla. The type and only known 

 specimen of Glossophaga longirostris forms part of a small collection 

 of bats made by Mr. W. W. Brown, Jr., at Santa Marta, Colombia, 

 and referred to me for identification by Mr. Outram Bangs. Series 

 of specimens from each of these collections are to be presented to the 

 National Museum. 



CHILONATALUS subgen. nov. (Natalinae). 

 Type Natalus micropus Dobson. 



Subgeneric characters. — Similar to typical Natalus Gray, but with 

 conspicuous dermal outgrowths on chin and above nostrils. These 

 outgrowths, as pointed out by Dobson, produce a strong resemblance 



to Chilonycteris. Males with a large glandu- 

 lar swelling on forehead, between and slightly 

 in front of eyes (figure 1). 



General remarks. — Natulus micropus and N. 

 brevimanus differ so remarkably from the other 

 members of the genus that they must be re- 

 garded as forming at least a distinct subgenus. 

 The form of the glandular elevation above the 

 nostrils and the apparently double lower lip, 

 taken in connection with the other characters 

 pointed out by Harrison Allen in which the 



Fig. 1. — Head of Cldlo- Natalities resemble Chilonycteris and Mor- 

 natalus (a) and Nata- • j> . i i .• u: u_ 



lus (b) left ear re- moo P s > ma y indicate a closer relationship be- 



moved. (Slightly en- tween the two groups than has heretofore been 



larged). suspected. 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



327 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Natalus (Chilonatalus) brevimanus sp. nov. 



Natalus micropus J. A. Allen, Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., Ill, p. 169, No- 

 vember, 14, 1890. 



Type.— Adult S (in alcohol), No. 15.835, United States National 

 Museum, Old Providence Island, Caribbean Sea. Presented by 

 Chas. B. Cory. 



Specific characters. — Slightly smaller than Natalus micropus Dob- 

 son 1 from Jamaica and with relatively longer ears and shorter 

 fingers. Color apparently paler than in N. micropus. 



General remarks. — Dr. J. A. Allen recorded the occurrence of this 

 bat on the island of Old Providence as long ago as 1890, but with 

 only a single individual at hand, he naturally considered it the same 

 as the Jamaican species. On comparing fifty-seven specimens from 

 Old Providence with three from Jamaica, I find a slight but re- 

 markably constant difference. Taking into consideration the per- 

 fect isolation of the two forms it seems best to apply to them bi- 

 nomial names. The characters are well brought out in the following 

 table of measurements. The apparent lighter color of N. brevimanus 

 may be due to the bleaching effect of alcohol, as I have seen no skins, 

 and both lots of specimens have been preserved for an unknown 

 length of time. 



Micronycteris microtis sp. nov. 



Type.— Adult $ (skin and skull) No. if f f f , United States Na- 

 tional Museum. Collected at Greytown, Nicaragua, by Dr. L. F. 

 H. Birt. 



Specific characters. — Smaller than Micronycteris minutus (Gervais); 

 thumb, foot, calcar and membranes as in M. megalotis Gray ; ear 

 from meatus about half as long as forearm ; middle lower premolar 

 relatively larger than in M. megalotis ; general color wood-brown, 

 scarcely paler on ventral surface. 



Fur and color. — The fur is distributed precisely as in M. megalo- 

 tis, except that there is a slightly more extensive sprinkling of hairs 

 on the dorsal surface of forearm. Fur on middle of back about 10 

 mm. in length. 



Color uniform wood-brown, slightly richer on dorsal surface. 

 Hairs on body both dorsally and ventrally, nearly white through 

 basal third. 



Ears. — Ears densely furred on basal half externally, the fur run- 

 ning up along anterior border to within 5 mm. of tip. Distal half 



1 Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1880, p. 443. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



bare, with a few very fine scattered hairs. In form the ears are 

 much like those of M. megalotis. Their tips, however, are more 

 abruptly narrowed, a condition made still more apparent by their 

 much smaller size. Inner surface of auricle with eight sharply de- 

 fined cross ridges arising at posterior border and extending about 

 halfway across ear. The distance between the uppermost and lower- 

 most ridge is about 5 mm. 



Feet. — Foot distinctly shorter than calcar and slightly more than 

 half as long as tibia. 



Skull. — In the type the brain case is more elevated immediately 

 behind the orbits, and the zygomata are less flaring than in the 

 skulls of 31. megalotis with which I have compared it, but these 

 differences may prove to be individual. 



Teeth. — When viewed from above, the crowns of the three lower 

 premolars appear to be of approximately equal size, though the 

 second is slightly smaller than either of the others. In 31. mega- 

 lotis the crown of the middle lower premolar is very conspicuously 

 smaller than the first. In other respects the teeth of the two species 

 appear to be identical. 



General remarks. — Micronyeteris microtis is so different from the 

 other described species of the genus that it needs no special com- 

 parison with any. From 31. megalotis its nearest geographical ally, 

 its small ears and uniform wood brown color separate it at a glance. 

 Yet it is probably most closely related to 31. megalotis and 31. hir- 

 suta, since 31. behnii and 31. minuta, the only other known species, 

 are distinguished by differences in the proportions of the parts of 

 the fingers and feet, to say nothing of the peculiar attachment of 

 the wings in 31. minuta. 



In the type of 3Iicro?iycteris microtis the exact form of the nose 

 leaf cannot be determined. The free, upright portion of the leaf, 

 however, appears to be shorter and broader than in either of the 

 races of 31. megalotis. The whole leaf is finely pubescent. 



The striation of the inner side of the ear is very different in 3Iicro- 

 nycteris microtis and 31. megalotis. In the latter, instead of eight 

 sharply defined ridges crowded into the space of 5 mm., there are 

 thirteen ill defined stria? with a distance of nearly 10 mm. between 

 the first and last. 



Micronyeteris megalotis mexicanus subsp. nov. 



Type. — Adult 9 (in alcohol) No. 52,105, United States National 

 Museum (Biological Survey collection). Collected at Plantinar, 

 22 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Jalisco, Mexico, April 4, 1892, by E. W. Nelson. Original num- 

 ber 2,389. 



Subspecific characters. — About the size of typical Micronycteris 

 megalotis Gray, but with longer middle finger and apparently lighter 

 color. 



General remarks. — While the Mexican material at hand is fairly 

 satisfactory, lacking only skins for the accurate determination of 

 color characters, the South American series is very deficient. Yet the 

 nine specimens that I refer to true megalotis agree very closely among 

 themselves, and differ fairly constantly from the Mexican form. 

 The color appears to be paler in the Mexican specimens, but as all 

 are preserved in alcohol no special weight can be attached to this 

 fact. The real characters of the two forms are shown in the accom- 

 panying table of measurements. 



Dobson's key to the species of Micronycteris (== ' Schizostoma ') 

 rearranged and extended to include the two new forms just described 

 is as follows : 

 First phalanx of middle finger conspicuously shorter than second ; 



forearm 47 M. behnii (Peters). 



First phalanx of middle finger approximately equal to second ; 

 forearm 30-40. 



Wings from tibise ; metacarpal of thumb about equal to remain- 

 ing parts ; calcar shorter than foot . . M. minuta (Gervais). 

 Wings from tarsus or metatarsus ; metacarpal of thumb much 

 longer than remaining parts ; calcar longer than foot. 



Legs and forearms conspicuously hairy. M. hirsuta (Peters). 

 Legs and forearms essentially bare. 



Ear from meatus about one-half forearm 



M. microtis Miller. 

 Ear from meatus about two-thirds forearm. 



Longest finger 60-64 . M. megalotis megalotis Gray. 

 Longest finger 68-72 . M. megalotis mexicanus Miller. 



Glossophaga longirostris sp. now 



Type. — Adult 9 (skin and skull) No. 8,046, Bangs collection, 

 Santa Marta Mountains (near Santa Marta), Colombia, February 

 10, 1898. Collected by W. W. Brown, Jr. Original number, 60. 



Specific characters. — Much larger than any species hitherto de- 

 scribed ; skull large and greatly elongated, color darker than in 

 either phase of G. soricina. 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



'jBB[asou.joimuAY 



cm -r co co cc « TfTP 



■ — — — -* -T* Tj< Tf T* TT TT ^" TT TT 



"JU8[ asoa jo ^qSjajj 



x — — 



cc cc i" cc 



cc cc iccc<ococet-cocot*-cccccccoc^cc 



'stiSbjcx 



X -T 



i~ cc -c' co 



cc Tf co co cr -r ccx cc cm 



cc t- cc"r— co coco co'cc i> so't- cc i— so "r- t--"t- 



*xtitf[TJqd pg 



CO CO CO CC rf- 

 t?«CCtPcCCCCCCCtJ< 



cc -* cc -f re -r -f -*** ** -t -t — i- -*• — 



•xamuqd %s\ 



CM cc cc to Tf CC «■ cc 



CN CO CO Tf X X 



cc oi cc -r re — re re re cc cc re cc -* re O 



•ipoq paB pB8H 



•qj8ua[ [Bjox 



o o wi^'c^or.' 



18 



•X9S 



'b'bCH'bCH-i'o'bo 'b^ot'o^^o'DO'oo^ooto 



■jaqranx 



^ i — ^ K i^ x c -; 



CC CN •— ^ ^f T lO IC 



K C M ^1 C — O C: 



■* c x r. ^- N « ^1" l* -t « -ri- c c. 



^ ^ ^ ?3 rt rt rx rt rt £• ° '— — '— , ~ - 



o 



I-? 



r: cs C3 _S .2 



6C 



a 



o o c o 



. c; cs 



« 5 O O ^ ■— ' 



Q K ^ 



O 5 = c "5 ts « « 2 5 





w"h 



-§ = 1111 SftW5355556gg"g 



'5 c 3 "** ^ " ^ * c3~ cf § § cs" «" cf cf oT.g .= ,= 



»!»«««* « g « n g_g g a a s -g^ ■£ 



03 

 M 



o o c o © c; 

 o u o o ac 



X 5D 50 v. X w 



- - - 



s ci i 

 B B O 



sso 



0) 



a 



^ «0 . 



.^ ^ ^9 



-/ -r -r -f -/ V -' -v- 



: e « -^ -^ ,<0 ,(J ,<0 *'° -^ • -^ -^ -i. 



,<o .*o ,<J 



■v. -Ci i- -v. -vi -vj -C; '~^C "^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ Cl "^ -C* -v. Ci -Cl -Ci -*2 *vl -^ 



^ ? ^« *i ? ? ? K ? ? ? J! ? ? ? 3 S - S « « « ? ? ri 

 «o & & h < ?t r< & r'. -/; "- ^0 Vj ^ Vj ^". t/j .-< -/. .-/ V '-c -/ V; -/■ V cv* *- 



^ ^ -^ <; <; -^ ^ -=; *-; 



''^ N S S S S.' *n < N •< < < < < ■< < * 



331 



a 



o 



o 






332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Fur and color. — In quality and distribution the fur resembles 

 that of G. soricina. It is 7 mm. in length on middle of back, 

 slightly longer on throat and shorter on belly. 



Color above dark hair brown, slightly tinged with Prout's brown, 

 the hairs everywhere very pale hair brown through basal two-thirds 

 or three-fourths. Belly light broccoli brown, becoming much 

 darker on chest and throat. 



Ears. — As nearly as can be determined from the dried specimen 

 the ears are essentially as in G. soricina, though considerably larger 

 and apparently with broader tragus. 



Skull. — Aside from its conspicuously larger size the skull of Glos- 

 soohaga longirostris differs from that of G. soricina in its relatively 

 longer rostrum, the sides of which are more nearly parallel, less 

 strongly arched brain-case, and in the narrowness of the backward 

 prolongation of the bony palate behind the plain of the last molar. 

 In G. soricina the width of the bony palate at the constriction im- 

 mediately behind the last molar is contained only twice in the dis- 

 tance from the latter point to the tip of the hamular. In G. longi- 

 rostris it is contained nearly two and one-half times. 



Teeth. — In the only known specimen of Glossophaga longirostris- 

 — an adult, though by no means aged individual — the incisors have 

 all been shed. Distinct traces of the alveoli can still be seen in the 

 mandible, but these are nearly obliterated in the upper jaw. 

 Whether this condition is normal, as in the genus Lichonycteris, 2 it 

 is, of course, impossible to say. In much older individuals of G. sori- 

 cina and G. truei 3 the incisors are invariably present, so far as my ob- 

 servation has gone. In relative size the premolars and molars are es- 

 sentially as in G. soricina. All, however, are very distinctly nar- 

 rower. Or, in other words, the teeth have shared in the general 

 elongation of the jaws without undergoing any proportional increase 

 in width. In the lower premolars where the characters are most 

 strongly marked, the width of each tooth is appreciably less than in 

 G. soricina, while the longitudinal extent of the three together 

 exceeds the same measurement in G. soricina by nearly one milli- 

 metre. 



Measurements. — Total length, 80 ; 4 tail, 18 ; 4 tibia, 16 ; foot, 10;* 

 thumb, 9 ; forearm, 39; longest finger, 80; ear, 14. 4 Skull: total 



2 Thomas, Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist., ser. 6, XVI, p. 55, July. 1895. 

 5 H. Allen, Science, N. S., V, No. 108, p. 153, January 22, 1897. 

 'Collector's measurement. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



length, 23.4 (19.8) ; 5 basilar length, 19.8 (16.2) ; zygomatic breadth, 

 10.8 (9.6) ; last molar to tip of haniular, 7 (5.6) ; last width of bony- 

 palate behind molars, 2.4 (2.2) ; mandible, 15.8 (13) ; maxillary 

 tooth row, 8.2 (6.8) ; mandibular tooth row, 8.6 (7). 



General remarks. — Glossophaga longirostris needs no close com- 

 parison with other members of its genus. Should the early decidu- 

 ous incisors prove to be a constant character, the animal will prob- 

 ably require at least subgeneric separation from the forms related to 

 6r. soricina. 



REITHRONYCTERIS gen. nov. (Glossophaginse.) 

 Type Eeithronycteris apliylla sp. nov. 



Generic characters. — Dental formula (as in Phyllonycteris), i, 

 2 z 2 > c > ^~zr > P m > ~r > m > ^f^=32 ; zygomatic arches incomplete (as 

 in Hemiderma) ; floor of brain-case from basisphenoid forward ele- 

 vated out of its usual position, so that the roof of the posterior nares 

 is formed by two longitudinal folds, given off by the pterygoids and 

 nearly meeting in the median line in the region usually occupied by 

 the basisphenoid and presphenoid (figures 3 and 4) ; calcar ab- 

 'sent ; nostrils perforating a disc shaped elevation which lacks a true 

 "leaf" or free, pointed process above (the conditions are exactly 

 reproduced in Brachyphylla) ; ears small and separate ; tongue 

 broader than in Phyllonycteris and more abruptly narrowed at tip, 

 the papillae short and stiff; tail about as long as femur. 



General remarks. — Reithronycteris is a very aberrant member of 

 the subfamily Glossophagince. Its broad teeth, heavy rostrum, mas- 

 sive lower jaw and broad tougue with short papillae remove it widely 

 from extreme forms such as Chceronycteris and Lichonycteris. In 

 its reduced nose leaf and in the form of the mandible and of the 

 mandibular teeth it resembles Brachyphylla. Whether these char- 

 acters indicate any real affinities with the Stenodermata is, however, 

 very questionable. 6 In addition to these less important characters, 

 Reithronycteris differs from all other bats with which I am ac- 

 quainted in the structure of the interpterygoid region. 



Measurements in parenthesis are those of an adult female, Glossophaga sori- 

 cina. from Cuernavaco, Morelos, Mexico (No. 36,017, TJ. S. Nat. Mus.), 



6 Since this paper has been in type I have received the late Dr. Harrison 

 Allen's monograph of the Glossophagina? (Trans. Am. Philos. Soc. , N. S., 

 XIX, pt. II, pp. 237-266, June, 1898). Here Brachyphylla is united with 

 Phyllonycteris to form the group ' Brachyphyllina,' placed at that end of the 

 glossophagine series nearest the Stenodermatinse. 




334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Reithronycteris aphylla sp. nov. 



Type. — Adult $ (in alcohol) No. 9, Museum of the Institute of 

 Jamaica. Collected in Jamaica. No further history. 



Specific characters. — External appearance much as in Phyllonyc- 

 teris sezekorni Peters, 7 but muzzle conspicuously broader and termi- 

 nating in a disc-shaped rudimentary nose leaf like that of Brachy- 

 phylla cavemarum. Feet relatively larger thau in Phyllonycteris 

 sezekorni, and interfemoral membrane much less developed. Skull 

 broader and more heavily built than that of P. sezekorni aud lack- 

 ing the slender, but complete zygomatic arches often present in the 

 latter. 8 Teeth conspicuously shorter and broader than in Phyllo- 

 nycteris sezekorni; front lower molar very slightly larger than suc- 

 ceeding ones, not greatly elongated as in P. sezekorni. Color, of 

 specimen preserved in alcohol for an unknown period, light yellow- 

 ish brown. 



Fur and color. — The fur is short, about 6 mm. in length on mid- 

 dle of back, 4 mm. on belly ; it is very closely confined to the body, 

 barelv reaching the membranes. Color both above and below light 

 yellowish brown. Ears and membranes light brown. 



Ears. — The ears are short; when laid forward they reach just 

 beyond inner canthus of eye. Anterior border strongly convex from 

 base to a little above middle, then nearly straight to narrowly 

 rounded off tip. Posterior border slightly concave below tip, then 

 convex (the curve about the same as that of anterior border) to base. 

 Posteriorbase in line with upper lip, the distance from cornerof mouth 

 a little less than from the latter point to chin. A wart (concealed 

 by the hair) about as large as eye midway between corner of mouth 

 and posterior base of ear. Inner surface of ear with seven ill de- 

 fined cross ridges. 



Tragus a little less than half height of ear. Anterior border 

 gently and evenly convex from base to acicular tip. Posterior bor- 

 der with four deep scallops, subtending as many prominent tooth 

 like projections, of which the basal is less developed than the 

 others (it does not show in the view from which figure was taken). 



Feet. — Foot very large, fully three-fourths as long as tibia, the 

 toes deeply cleft and provided with large claws. No trace of calcar. 



7 This comparison is made with specimens from Nassau, Bahamas. These 

 may prove to be different from the typical Cuban form. 



5 Dobson, basing his description on Jamaican material, states that in Pliyllo- 

 nycteris the zygomatic arches are incomplete. This is not true of the Baha- 

 man specimens. There is little reason, however, to believe that the Jamai- 

 can Phyllonycteris with pointed nose leaf is the same as that found in the 

 Bahamas, and no certainty that either is true sezekorni. 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



335 



Membranes. — Wings full and ample, at- 

 tached at middle of tibia. Uropatagium 

 reduced to a narrow frill scarcely wider 

 than the fleshy part of the thigh, and reach- 

 ing not quite to middle of tibia. Tail in- 

 cluded to middle in membrane. 



Tongue. — The tongue (figure 5) while 

 distinctly of the glossophagine type is con- 

 siderably broader in proportion to its length 

 than in any of the other members of the 

 group that I have examined. At the tip it 

 narrows very abruptly to an unusually 

 acute point. The terminal area of elonga- 

 ted stiff papillse has much the same general 

 shape as in Phyllonycteris sezekorni, allow- 

 ance being made for the difference arising 

 from the greater breadth of the tongue, but 

 Fig. 2.— Head of Phyllo- the individual papillae are shorter and of 



tSXgFi&X °"> re ™ ifo ™ ta-gth. » that the media,, 



(b). (Slightly enlarged), groove is less conspicuous (this difference 

 is very difficult to represent in the drawing). 



Skull. — The skull (figure 3) is larger and more massively built 



than that of Phyllonycteris or 

 any other glassophagine ge- 

 nus with which I am acquaint- 

 ed. The rostrum is especially 

 broad and deep. Face line 

 straight from nostril to middle 

 of brain case ; a well develop- 

 ed sagittal crest and lambdoid 

 crest ; bony palate behind 

 molars narrower than in Phyl- 

 lonycteris sezekorni. The ham- 

 ular processes are very broad 

 and strongly concave intern- 

 ally, the resulting form quite 

 different from that in Phyllo- 

 nycteris or Glossophaga. The 

 structure of the floor of the 

 brain case has already been 

 referred to. Unfortunately 



Fig. 3. — Skull of Reithronyeteris aphylla. 

 (About 1J times natural size). 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



the type is so old that it is impossible to trace the sutures in this 

 part of the skull, but the longitudinal folds forming the roof of the 

 posterior nares are apparently given off by the pterygoids. In fig- 

 ure 4 is shown a diagrammatic cross section «* 

 just in front of the hamulars. //^ 



Mandible very heavy and massive, especially * c S /t* 



in the region of the symphysis. It is quite un- „. . _.. 



B j i j n Yig. 4. — Diagram- 

 like that of any other member of the Glossopha- matic cross section 

 qince, and closely resembles that of Brachy- through ptery- 



■L 77 11 U ■ J * L S° ldS and fl ° 0r ° f 



pny I la, allowance being made for its much brain case at re- 

 smaller size. g' l0n marked a-b 



Teeth. — In number and arrangement the r y<*oTd, b.sp.==b&- 

 teeth agree with those of Phyllonycteris sezekorni, sisphenoid. 

 but in form they are even less typically glossophagine, than is espe- 

 cially the case with the mandibular teeth, which strongly resemble 

 those of Brachyphylla cavemarum. In relative size the teeth agree 

 with those of Phyllonycteris sezekorni except that the front upper 

 premolar is larger, the second upper premolar smaller, and the front 

 lower molar much shorter. The lower premolars are less crowded 

 than in P. sezekorni. 



Measurements. — Total length, 88 ; head, 28 ; greatest breadth of 

 muzzle in front of eyes, 10; eye to eye, 8; eye to tip of muzzle, 

 10.4 ; ear from meatus, 16 ; ear from crown, 13 ; width of ear, 12 ; 

 tragus, 8 ; tail, 12 ; free part of tail, 6 ; tibia, 22.8 ; foot, 17 ; claws, 

 5 ; width of uropatagium at middle of femur, 6 ; forearm, 48 ; 

 thumb, 14; second finger, 37 ; third finger, 84 ; fourth finger, 66; 

 fifth finger, 64; penis, 10. Skull: greatest length, 26; basilar 

 length, 20 ; interorbital breadth, 5.4 ; mastoid breadth, 12.4 ; depth 

 of brain case, 9 ; depth of rostrum at anterior end of first molar, 6 : 

 width of palate between last molars, 5 ; last molar to tip of hamu- 

 lar, 7.8 ; upper tooth row exclusive of incisors, 8 ; greatest length 

 of mandible, 16.6 ; depth of mandible at space between premolars, 

 3 ; lower tooth row exclusive of incisors, 9. 



General remarks. — Reithronycteris aphylla needs close comparison 

 with only one described species, the Phyllonycteris poeyi of Gund- 

 lach. 8 This bat, from the " Kaffeepflanzung Fuudator," Cuba, is 

 still wholly unknown except for the rather meagre original des- 

 cription. In size, color, general structure of the nose leaf, and 

 absence of calcar, it agrees very closely with Reithronycteris 



8 Monatsber. K. Akad. Wissensch., Berlin, 1860, p. 817. 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



337 



aphylla, but the ear is longer and 

 narrower (18.5x11 instead of 16x12), 

 the rudimentary nose leaf quite differ- 

 ent in form (5.75x4. 5 instead of 4x6), 

 the tail is shorter, especially in its free 

 portion, and the forearm and fingers 

 are slightly shorter. These differences 

 coupled with the seeming impossibility 

 Fig. 5. — Tip of tongue (dorsal that anyone should consider animals 

 surface) of Reithronycteris so widely different in aspect as Phyl- 

 aphylla (a) and Phyllonycteris , ,. , • j t-» -,7 , • 



sezekorni (b). (About 5 times lonycteris sezekorni and Keithronycteris 



natural size). aphylla as possibly individual varia- 



tions of one and the same species, 9 make it appear more reasonable 

 to apply a new specific name to the Jamaican bat. 



9 Gundlach says (under Phyllonycteris sezekorni) : " Die Vergleichung einer 

 grosseren Anzahl von Exemplaren wird iibrigens entscheiden miissen, ob diess 

 eine selbstiindige Art ist oder ob sie mit der vorhergehenden zu vereinigen 

 sein wird." 




338 proceedings of the academy of [1898. 



June 7. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-eight persons present. 



The deaths of Professors Jules Marcou and Fridolin Sandberger, 

 Correspondents, were announced. 



June 14. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-five persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 

 " List of Fishes collected at the Canary Islands by Mr. O. F. 



Cook, with Descriptions of Four New Species." By David Starr 



Jordan and James Alexander Gunn, Jr. 



" Hyalodendron navalium, a New Genus and Species of Euplec- 



tillid Sponge." By J. Percy Moore. 



June 21. 



Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman in the Chair. 



Nineteen persons present. 



A paper entitled "A New Chipmunk from northeastern China," 

 by Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., was presented for publication. 



June 28. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 

 Thirteen persons present. 



The Committee on the Hayden Geological Memorial 

 Award reported in favor of conferring the medal and the interest on 

 the fund for 1898 on Professor Otto Martin Torell, the Di- 

 rector of the Geological Survey of Sweden, in recognition of the 

 value of his contributions to the literature of geological science, his 

 able direction of the Swedish Geological Survey, and the eminence 

 of his standing among geologists. 



The award was made by the Academy in accordance with the 



recommendation of the Committee. 



•- 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



LIST OF FISHES COLLECTED AT THE CANARY ISLANDS BY MR. 0. F. 

 COOK, WITH DESCRIPTIONS OF FOUR NEW SPECIES. 



BY DAVID STARR JORDAN AND JAMES ALEXANDER GUNN, JR. 



In 1891, Mr. O. F. Cook presented to the Museum of the Leland 

 Stanford Junior University a valuable collection of fishes which he 

 had obtained on a visit to the Canary Islands. We give below an 

 annotated list of the species contained in this collection with a de- 

 scription of those which are new. The following species seem to be 

 new to science. 



Umbrina valida Jordan and Gunn, No. 10,584, L. S. Jr. U. 



Scorpcena rubelllo Jordan and Gunn, No. 4,291, L. S. Jr. U. 



Scorpcena teneviffea Jordan and Gunn, No. 3,111, L. S. Jr. U. 



Blennius canariensis Jordan and Gunn, No. 4,285, L. S. Jr. U. 



Family GALEIDiE. 



1. Mustelus canis (Mitehill). 

 One specimen. 



Family SQUALID^. 



2. Centrophorus granulosus (Bloch & Schneider). 

 One specimen. 



Family RAJIDJE. 



3. Raja clavata Linmtus. 



One specimen. It differs from Giinther's description in having 

 three. rows of claw-like spines along the tail, instead of one, and in 

 the absence of a patch of claw-like spines on the side of the head 

 and on the pectoral. 



Family DASYATIDJS. 



4. Dasyatis pastinacea (Linnteus.) 



Family LEPTOCEPHALIDiE. 



5. Leptocephalus conger (Linnaeus). 



One specimen. It differs from the descriptions at hand in that 

 the length of the pectoral fin is contained two aud one-half times in 

 that of the head, instead of three and one-half times. 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Family MURiENID^J. 



6. Muraena augusti Kaup. 



The one specimen of this species differs from Giinther's descrip- 

 tion in that the tubule of the anterior nostril, instead of being as 

 long as the diameter of the eye, is only half that length. 



7. Muraena helena Linnaeus. 

 One specimen. 



8. Muraena melanotis Kaup. 

 Two specimens. 



9. Lycodontis vicinus (Castelnau) (?). 



Three specimens. They differ from published descriptions in be- 

 ing mottled with whitish instead of with purplish or a darker brown 

 than the body color. We do not feel certain of their identity with 

 this species, and its synonymy as given by Jordan and Evermann 

 is somewhat doubtful. 



Family CLUPEID.ffi. 



10. Clupanodon maderensis (Lowe). 



One specimen. The pectoral fins are shorter than described. 



Family SYNODONTID.5J. 



11. Synodus saurus (Linnanis). 

 Two specimens. 



Family ESOCID.E. 



12. Esox belone (Linnams). 

 One specimen. 



Family MACRORHAMPHOSIDJE. 



13. Macrorhamphosus scolopax (Linnaeus). 

 Eight specimens. 



Family ATHERINIDJE. 



14. Atherina boyeri Risso. 

 Three specimens. 



Family MUGILIDJE. 



15. Liza aurata (Risso). 

 Four specimens. 



Family SPHYR.ENIDJE. 



16. Sphyraena sphyraena (Linnajus). 

 Four specimens. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



Family MULLIDJE. 



17. Mullus surmuletus Linnaeus. 

 One specimen. 



Family SCOMBRID.E. 



18. Scomber oolias Gnielin. 

 Four specimens. 



Family GEMPHYLID^J. 



19. Prometb.eicb.thys prometheus (Cuv. & Val.). 



The single specimen of this species has six extremely large canine 

 teeth on the premaxillary instead of four as described and figured 

 by Goode and Bean and by Cuvier and Valenciennes. 



20. Ruvettus pretiosus (Cocc). 

 One specimen. 



Family LEPIDOPODID.ffi. 



21. Lepidopus caudatus (Euphrasen). 

 Two specimens. 



Family CARANGIDJE. 



22. Trachurus picturatus (Bowdich). 

 Two specimens. 



23. Hypodis glaucus (Linnaeus). 

 One specimen. 



Family SERRANIDjE. 



24. Serranus scriba (Linnaeus). 

 Two specimens. 



25. Epinephelus guaza (Linnaeus). 



One single specimen (=Epinephelus gigas [Brunnich]) differs 

 from ordinary specimens by the absence of "faint, whitish spots 

 arranged in vertical series." 



Family SPARID.E3. 



26. Diplodus vulgaris (Cuvier & Valenoiennes). 



Two specimens. 



27. Diplodus sargus (Linnreus). 



Three specimens. 



28. Pagrus pagrus (Linmeus). 

 Two specimens. 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



29. Pagellus centrodontus (Delaroche). 



The single specimen of P. centrodontus in this collection has only 

 eight soft rays in the anal fin instead of twelve ; but the fish had 

 evidently received an injury, during life, by which some of the pos- 

 terior anal rays were torn away. 



30. Pagellus bogaraveo (Briinnich). 

 One specimen. 



31. Pagellus^mormyrus (Linnaeus). 



One specimen. 



32. Pagellus erythrinus (Linnaeus). 

 One specimen. 



Family KYPHOSIDJE. 



33. Spondyliosoma cantharus (Linnaeus). 

 One specimen. 



34. Box boops (Linnwus). 



One specimen. 



Family SCIJENIDJE. 



35. Umbrina valida Jordan & Gunn, new species. 



Head 3i in length; depth 3; eye in head 3f ; D. X-I-29; A. 

 II— 7 ; scales 7-47-11. Body rather stout, back elevated, ventral 

 line from anal to lower lip nearly straight; mouth low, lower jaw 

 embraced within upper when mouth is closed ; maxillary extending 

 to vertical from anterior edge of pupil ; snout blunt, rounded, scaly, 

 extending a little beyond premaxillary ; anterior nostril circular, a 

 membrane half closing it on postero-ventral side ; posterior nostril 

 large, pyriform, slightly nearer to orbit than to anterior nostril, a 

 membrane nearly half closing it on dorsal side ; teeth villiform, 

 subequal, in broad bands which are interrupted at median line in 

 both jaws; preopercle denticulate on its bony edge ; barbel below 

 symphysis short, thick, blunt; third and fourth dorsal spines long- 

 est, 2£ in head ; pectorals equal to, or slightly longer than ventrals 

 and reaching more than halfway to vent, If in head; caudal trun- 

 cate, except for three or four dorsal rays which are abruptly pro- 

 duced; second anal spine strong, 2f in head ; gill rakers 5 -\- 10, 

 short, thick. 



Color (in spirits) yellowish-olive with a dark violet streak along 

 each row of scales; these streaks intersect with the lateral line; 

 vertical and ventral fins dark ; pectorals dark behind. One speci- 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



men, from Canary Islands, 30 cm. long, exclusive of caudal; col- 

 lected by O. F. Cook. This well-marked species is nearest to Um- 

 brina coroides Cuvier & Valenciennes. The latter has, at all ages, 

 well-marked black cross-bands. 



Family POMACENTRIDJE. 



36. Chromis chromis (Linnaeus). 

 One specimen. 



37. Abudefduf luridus (Broussonet). 



The two specimens of this species agree perfectly with the genus 

 Abudefduf as defined by Jordan and Evermann, except that the 

 teeth are not emarginate. The front teeth are truncate and those in 

 the sides of the mouth rounded. This species agrees in this regard 

 with Stegastes imbricatus Jenyns, but in the genus or subgenus Ste- 

 gastes, the snout is fully scaled. 



Family LABRIDJE. 



38. Centrolabrus trutta Lowe. 

 Two specimens. 



39. Diastodon scrofa (Cuvier & Valenciennes). 



Two specimens. 



40. Sparisoma cretense (Linnaeus). 

 Four specimens. 



41. Thalassoma unimaculatum (Lowe). 



Head 3 J ; depth 3 J ; eye in head 5i, in inter-orbital width 1| ; 

 snout in head 2|. D. VIII-13 ; A. III-ll ; scales 2 to 3-26 to 29 

 -9 to 10, before D. 6. Body-color (in spirits) olive-gray ; perpen- 

 dicular, violet-black or reddish-brown streaks, extending across 

 centers of scales, two-thirds down sides of body, and alternating with 

 white streaks which extend to ventral surface; crossing these are 

 faint, longitudinal, white streaks, extending along each row of scales 

 and sometimes giving body a mesh-work appearance ; top of head 

 and snout black or violet ; a more or less distinct black stripe from 

 eye to near posterior edge of opercle ; pectorals with a small, black 

 spot superiorly in axil, or not, darkened at tip or not ; outer rays of 

 caudal extended along and darkened ; basal one-third of anal 

 violet, the outer two-thirds white ; a black spot on the back at each 

 side of dorsal at bases of second to fifth soft rays ; dorsal with a 

 broad, dark-violet stripe along its whole length, leaving a narrow, 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



white margin along the crest and the base, the latter usually inter- 

 rupted by union of black spot of back and violet stripe of fin. Five 

 specimens from Canary Islands, 7.5 to 10 cm. long, exclusive of 

 caudal ; collected by O. F. Cook. This specimen is apparently dis- 

 tinct from Thalassoma pavo, differing at least in color. 



Family TETRAODONTIDJE. 



42. Sphseroides spengleri (Bloch). 

 Two specimens. 



Family SCOBPJENIDJE. 



43. Scorpaena rubellio Jordan & Gunn, new species. 



Head 2§ ; depth 3 ; eye in head 4, in inter-orbital width f ; snout 

 in head 31. D. XII-10 ; A. Ill— 5 ; scales ctenoid and rather 

 small, 7-26-16, before D. 6. Breast closely covered with small, 

 smooth scales ; ctenoid scales on operculum and on posterior part of 

 cheek above sub-orbital ridge ; a single, horizontal row of scales, 

 some of them smooth, below sub-orbital ridge, and near them a few 

 scattered, cup-shaped, rudimentary ones ; on top of head, from occi- 

 put to nostrils, are scattered, minute, cup-shaped or flat scales, im- 

 bedded in the skin, upon each of which is produced, usually from 

 the posterior edge, one or two upright prickles. Inter-orbital area 

 moderately concave, its longitudinal ridges hardly perceptible. No 

 occipital or sub-ocular groove or pit. Supra-orbital and anterior 

 nasal plumules each shorter than diameter of pupil. Three moder- 

 ate spines on supra-orbital crest, followed posteriorly by a row of 

 three others ; two rather low opercular ridges ending in spines ; a 

 series of three spines behind middle of eye, the first one directed up- 

 ward, the third with a smaller one above it. Sub-orbital ridge 

 moderate, bearing two spines ; behind it two closely apposed spines 

 on edge of preopercle, the hinder one larger ; below these, and also 

 on edge of preopercle, a row of four, short, stout spines. The ante- 

 rior and postero-ventral extremities of pre-orbital produced into 

 spines which project over the maxillary. Two pairs of barbels, at- 

 tached nearer lip than median line. Fourth dorsal spine longest ; 

 2$ in head ; last soft ray joined by membrane for nearly its whole 

 length to the back. Second anal spine longest, longer than longest 

 dorsal. Last ventral ray attached to the body by membrane for 

 half its length. 



Body color (in spirits) reddish-brown ; a dark area at origin of lat- 

 eral line, fading posteriorly. Head covered with dark specks. Dorsal 




1898.] NATURAL SCIP;NCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



mottled with reddish-brown and light. The dark base of caudal sep- 

 arated by a light area from the dark spots arranged in three or four 

 transverse bars on the distal two-thirds of the rays. Anal chiefly 

 dark with only a few white specks. Ventrals white, shaded with a 

 little brown. Numerous scattered brown specks on rays of pectoral?. 

 On the posterior side of base of pectoral and gradually diminishing 

 in number posteriorly in the axil and on the body area which the 

 fin covers when folded back are numerous white specks, about as 

 large as the pores of lateral line. One specimen from Canary Is- 

 lands ; length 9.5 cm. exclusive of caudal ; collected by O. F. Cook. 

 This species is allied to Scorpcena porcus, but differs in the arma- 

 ture of the head, in the coloration and in the more densely scaled 

 breast. 



44. Scorpsena teneriffea Jordan & Gunn, new species. 



Head 2§ ; depth 3 ; eye in head 3^, in inter-orbital width § ; 

 snout in head 4*. D. XII-10 ; A. III-5 ; scales 6-25-13, before 

 D. 2. Breast and head scaleless, latter pustulate, spinous, without 

 tentacles except over anterior nostrils ; a deep inter-orbital groove 

 corrugated by a furrow along its bottom and terminating posteriorly 

 in a deeper, transverse, occipital groove which is continuous with 

 the post-orbital cavities. A pair of small spines in occipital groove, 

 two pairs of large ones behind it ; a large, hooked spine in each post- 

 orbital pit, half way between which and the large supra-scapular 

 spine are two short, broad ones ; one or two small spines in anterior 

 part of post-orbital pit ; a large spine anteriorly, and two small ones 

 posteriorly on supra-orbital ridge ; two inter-nasal spines ; preor- 

 bital with anterior and postero-ventral extremities produced into 

 spines and with three or four median spines, the anterior of which 

 is largest and all of which, together with the one at postero-ven- 

 tral extremity, project over the maxillary ; sub-orbital ridge 

 strong, with three spines ; behind these, and situated on the poste- 

 rior edge of preopercle, are two closely apposed spines, the hinder 

 one the larger ; below this point, and also on posterior edge of pre- 

 opercle, are four, short, stout spines; two ridges, the lower one 

 stronger, cross the opercle terminating posteriorly in strong spines; 

 a strong humeral spine above axil. Scales ctenoid, moderately 

 large. Third and fourth dorsal spines longest, more than half 

 length of head. Second anal spine longest, nearly equal to longest 

 dorsal. 



. 

 23 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Color (in spirits) reddish-brown above, white and yellowish- white 

 below ; a dark area on lower part of cheek and opercle ; a small 

 dark spot above, and one or two behind axil of pectoral ; irregular 

 dark spots on pectoral, lower rays tipped with white ; spinous dor- 

 sal slightly darkened, a few dark spots on soft dorsal. Caudal fan- 

 shaped, almost immaculate at base, but with large, dark spots be- 

 tween the rays disposed in two or three transverse bars, in the cen- 

 tral region of fin, and irregularly near its extremity. Anal white 

 with a few dark spots ; ventrals white with one or two spots. One 

 specimen 13.5 cm. long from Canary Islands, collected by O. F. 

 Cook. 



This species seems to be distinct from the Madeira species Scor- 

 pcena ustulate Lowe, to which it is allied. 



Family GOBIIDJE. 



45. Gobius niger Linnaeus. 

 One specimen. 



Family TRACHINIDJE. 



46. Trachinus draco Linrnvus. 

 Three specimens. 



Family BLENNIIDJE. 



47. Labrisomus nucbipinnis (Quoy & Gaimard). 



In the two specimens of this species the band of villiform teeth is 

 broader behind the upper front teeth than that behind the lower. 



48. Blennius oanariensis Jordan & Gunn, new species. 



Head 4| ; depth 4£ ; eye in head 4£, in inter-orbital width |. D. 

 XI-22 ; A. 11-22 ; snout rounded, obtuse, 3 in head. Two canine 

 teeth in each jaw, the lower ones twice as large as the upper, incis- 

 ors long, villiform, in single series in each jaw, not fixed. Dorsal 

 beginning above margin of preopercle, continuous, extending to 

 caudal but not uniting with it. Ventrals inserted below origin of 

 dorsal, 7| in body-length. Distance of anal from caudal equals di- 

 ameter of eye. Supraorbital cirrus bifid, as long as half diameter 

 of eye ; anterior nostril with a flap equalling one-third diameter of 

 eye. Caudal fan-shaped. 



Body color (in spirits) reddish-brown, whitish below ; posterior 

 half of body sometimes whitish, in which case, three longitudinal 

 interrupted brown stripes extend over the light part. Ventrals and 

 pectorals reddish-brown ; vertical fins darker ; anal dark violet, the 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



rays tipped with white and sometimes whitish at base. Two speci- 

 mens from Canary Islands, 10 and 10.5 cm. long; collected by O. 

 F. Cook. 



This species seems to be different from Blennius tentacularis and 

 from all others with which we have been able to compare it. 



Family TRIGLIDJE. 



49. Trigla hirundo (Linnaeus). 

 One specimen. 



50. Trigla lineata (Linmcus). 

 One specimen. 



Family GATHDffi. 



51. Urophycis mediterraneus (Delaruche). 

 One specimen. 



Family PLEITRONECTID.ffi. 



52. Platophrys podas (Delaroehe). 



The three specimens of this species differ from published descrip- 

 tions in having a re-entrant angle at the base of the snout, and in 

 not having an angle opposite the upper eye. 



Family SOLEIDJE. 



53. Solea lascaris (Risso). 

 Two specimens. 



54. Quenselia ocellata (Linnaus). 

 One specimen. 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



A NEW CHIPMUNK FROM NORTHEASTERN CHINA. 

 BY GERRIT 8. MILLER, JR. 



In a paper recently published in these Proceedings (1898, pp. 

 120-125) Mr. S. N. Rhoads refers two chipmunks from the Pro- 

 vince of Pechili, northeastern China, to Eutamias asiaticics (Gmelin). 

 Through the kindness of Mr. Witmer Stone I now have the speci- 

 mens before me. They agree perfectly — allowance being made for 

 difference in pelage — with a skin in the United States National 

 Museum taken near Peking, and differ widely from published 

 descriptions of Eutamias asiaticus 1 and from a skin of the latter (in 

 the National Museum) labelled ' Fort TJlba, Siberia.' 2 Considering 

 the isolation of the region inhabited by the Pechili Chipmunk, and 

 the extreme plasticity of the genus Eutamias, it is not surprising 

 that the animal should prove to be distinct from its Siberian con- 

 gener. The question immediately arises, however, as to what true 

 Eutamias asiaticus really is, and at present it is impossible to give 

 a wholly satisfactory answer. Gmelin based his Sciurus striatus 

 a asiaticus primarily on the Sciurus striatus of Pallas, 3 a compos- 

 ite of the Asiatic and American species, but composed chiefly of the 

 former. The range of the Asiatic animal extends, according to 

 Pallas, from the Dwina River in Russia, east through the whole of 

 Siberia. That only one species of Eutamias occurs in this vast area 

 is almost beyond the possibility of belief. But however many forms 

 there may be, and whatever one Pallas may have had in hand when 

 he wrote his description, the animal that he described was approxi- 

 mately like the ' Ulba ' specimen, and consequently very unlike the 

 Chinese form. Roughly speaking, the Chinese animal is a pale, 

 grayish, brown-striped form much like Eutamias merriami and E. 

 senex, while the ' Ulba ' specimen, together with those usually re- 



1 See, for instance, Allen, Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., Ill, pp. 71, 72, June, 

 1890. 



2 This locality I have been unable to find on any map. In the Government 

 of Tomsk, however, there is a river whose name is variously spelled as Uba, 

 Ouba and Ooba. The name on the Museum label may be a lapsus pennse 

 for Uba. 



s Glires, p. 378. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



garded as true asiaticus, resembles the members of the brightly col- 

 ored, black-striped quadrivittatus- group. That Pallas had before 

 him a specimen of the latter type, is clearly proved by his excellent 

 description. The back he says is marked with five black stripes, 

 of which the middle one extends from nape to base of tail, the outer 

 from shoulder to thigh. 4 The specific name asiaticus, based on this 

 description, is obviously inapplicable to an animal which has only 

 one, or at most three, black dorsal stripes. The Chinese form, on 

 account of its striking resemblance to the American Eutamias senex 

 may be called : 



Eutamias senescens sp. nov. 



Tamias (Eutamias) asiaticus Rhoads, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 

 189S, p. 122. (Nee Sciurus striatus a asiaticus Gmelin, 1788, nee Tamias 

 asiaticus Allen, 1890). 



Type.— Adult 9 (skin and skull) No. 83,395, United States 

 National Museum, collected August 21, 1896, on low barren hills 

 fifteen miles west of Peking, China, by Geo. D. Wilder. 



General characters. — Much paler and grayer than Eutamias 

 asiaticus ; only the middle part of central dark stripe constantly 

 black ; feet larger than in a specimen of supposed asiaticus from 

 * Fort Ulba, Siberia.' 



Color. — Type specimen in fresh post nuptial pelage : sides pale 

 yellowish-brown, becoming grizzly gray at shoulders, rump tinged 

 with orange rufous; crown slightly browner than shoulders and 

 nape ; sides of head yellowish-gray, with the usual stripes, the latter 

 light brown and ill defined ; ears concolor with crown, a whitish 

 stripe along posterior border on outer side, a faint yellowish wash 

 within, belly soiled whitish ; tail with three bands of color, a broad, 

 pale yellowish, median area, followed by a black subterminal band 

 and a white border, the pattern very distinct beneath but obscured 

 on the dorsal surface, where in addition to the three color bands 

 normally present, the hairs have dusky bases ; median dorsal stripe 

 extending from nape to base of tail, dusky brown anteriorly, becom- 

 ing black near middle and fading to pale reddish-brown posteriorly ; 

 second stripe shorter and slightly paler than first; outer stripe 

 broader than either of the others, much paler and less well defined ; 

 outer white stripe dusky whitish (about like belly), slightly broader 



4 " Dorsum fasciis quinque nigris, longitudinalibus striatum, quarum media 

 a nucha ad caudam, proxima? a cervice ad clunes, extimje a scapulis ad femora 

 protenduntur." 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



than inner, which is much the same color as grizzle of neck and 

 shoulders ; whole back sprinkled with black and reddish hairs, the 

 latter most numerous along the edges of the dark stripes. 



Adult female in worn winter pelage (No. 4,601, Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Tung Ching Tzu, Pechili, China, 

 May 30, 1897. Skin considerably over-stuffed) : ground color 

 throughout much paler than in the type, rump scarcely tinged with 

 reddish ; dark stripes on both head and body more conspicuous ; 

 the second dorsal stripe black in middle, the median white stripes 

 paler ; tail much less bushy but similar in arrangement of colors, 

 except at base where new hairs are coming in. The other specimen 

 ( $ ad. No. 4,602, Sian Lang Kou, Pechili, China, June 18, 1897), 

 likewise in worn winter pelage is similar to the last, but a shade less 

 pallid. • 



Measurements. — The material at hand furnishes a rather unsatis- 

 factory basis for measurements. The following, however, are fairly 

 accurate. 



Number sex total length tail hind foot front foot 



m.m. m.m. m.m. m.m. 



83,395 9 297 127 40 24 



4.601 9 38 22 



4.602 $ — 38 23 



The 'Fort Ulba' specimen measures: hind foot, 36; front foot, 



20. 



General remarks. — The cranial characters of Eutamias senescens 

 have been sufficiently described by Mr. Rhoads in his paper, to 

 which reference has already been made. 



This paper is published here by permission of the Secretary of 

 the Smithsonian Institution. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



July 5. 

 Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman in the Chair. 

 Nine persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



" Contributions to Neotropical Herpetology." By Robert Baird 

 McLain. 



" Critical Notes on a Collection of Reptiles from the Western 

 Coast of the United States." By Robert Baird McLain. 



" The Eastern Reptiles in the Collection of the Museum of the 

 Leland Stanford University, Zoological Department." By Robert 

 Baird McLain. 



July 12. 



Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman in the Chair. 



Eleven persons present. 



A paper entitled "Descriptions of Three New Rodents from the 

 Olympic Mountains, Washington," by C Hart Merriam, was pre- 

 sented for publication. 



July 19. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Twelve persons present. 



A paper entitled "A New Land Snail from Clarion Island," by 

 Henry A. Pilsbry, was presented for publication. 



July 26. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 

 Eleven persons present. 



Charles M. Burk, M. D., was elected a member. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : — 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



DESCRIPTIONS OF THREE NEW RODENTS FROM THE OLYMPIC 

 MOUNTAINS, WASHINGTON. 



BY C HART MERRIAM. 



Owing to an unavoidable delay in the publication of my report 

 on the Olympic Mountains, it seems desirable that the following new 

 species of mammals should be recorded as early as practicable. 



Arctomys olympus sp. now 



Type. — From Timberline at head of Soled uc River, Olympic 

 Mountains, Washington. No. 90,518, S ad. U. S. Nat. Mus. Bio- 

 logical Survey Coll. Collected August 27, 1897, by C. Hart Mer- 

 riam and Vernon Bailey. Original No. 6,210. 



Characters- — Size and general characters as in A. caligatus, from 

 which it differs markedly in color, the feet being brown instead of 

 black, and upper parts in summer pelage uniform dull ochraceous 

 yellow, without the hoary shoulders and fore back, dark posterior 

 back, or the blackish top of head of that species. 



Color. — Entire upper parts except ears and nose, dull buffy or 

 ochraceous yellowish, becoming brown on underparts ; ears and feet 

 brown ; chin and nose white, with a dark bar across face between 

 nose and eyes. This face bar is probably absent in full summer 

 pelage, and indicates the beginning of the fall change to blackish 

 pelage. 



Measurements. — Type specimen, $ ad., measured in flesh : Total 

 length, 750 mm. ; tail vertebra?, 210 mm. ; hind foot, 110 mm. 



Eutamias caurinus sp. nov. 



Type. — From Timberline near head of Soleduc River, Olympic 

 Mountains, Washington. No. 90,636, $ ad. U. S. Nat. Mus. Bio- 

 logical Survey Coll. Collected August 27, 1897, by C Hart Mer- 

 riam. Original No. 6,211. 



Characters. — (Type specimen in post breeding pelage — molt not 

 completed posteriorly). Similar to E- amcenus, but hind feet longer; 

 underside of tail with black border broader, and median chestnut- 

 fulvous band darkened by mixture of black hairs ; post-auricular 

 patches obsolete ; face stripes duller ; back of neck not grayish or 

 hoary, but grizzled with fulvous, like shoulders ; middle pair of 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 853 



pale dorsal stripes less sharply defined anteriorly and everywhere 

 mixed with fulvous hairs. 



Measurements. — Type specimen measured in flesh : Total length, 

 210 mm. ; tail vertebra?, 85 mm. ; hind foot, 34 mm. 



Microtus macrurus sp. nov. 



Type. — From Lake Cushman, Olympic Mountains, Washington. 

 No. 66,151 9 ad., U. S. Nat. Mus. Biological Survey Coll. Col- 

 lected June 26, 1894, by Clark P. Streator. Original number 3,975. 



Characters. — Similar to M mordax but larger, with longer tail 

 and decidedly larger hind feet ; color darker. 



Color. — Upper parts brownish bister with a grizzled ' pepper and 

 salt ' appearance, suggesting M. austerus ; under parts whitish, the 

 plumbeous under-fur showing through ; tail bicolor, dusky above, 

 whitish below, the tip sometimes white, sometimes dusky all round. 

 In summer pelage the back is browner and the under parts are 

 washed with buffy. 



Cranial characters. — Skull similar to that of M. mordax, but 

 slightly larger, with rostrum and nasals slightly broader. 



Measurements. — Type specimen : Total length, 220 mm. ; tail ver- 

 tebrae, 88 mm. ; hind foot, 24 mm. Average of 5 specimens from 

 Olympic Mountains: Total length, 204 mm.; tail vertebras, 80; 

 hind foot 24-3, 



Average of 5 specimens of M. mordax from Saw Tooth Lake, 

 Idaho : Total length, 182 mm. ; tail vertebras, 66'5 ; hind foot, 22. 



Remarks. — In coloration Microtus macrurus agrees closely with 

 M. longicaudus from the Black Hills of South Dakota, but in size 

 and proportions it differs from longicaudus even more than from 

 mordax. All three of these animals are very closely related, and it 

 would not be far amiss if both mordax and macrurus were placed as 

 subspecies of longicaudus. 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898, 



A NEW LAND SHELL FROM CLARION ISLAND. 



BY HENRY A PILSBRY. 

 Succinea Mcgregori n. sp. 



Shell ovate, thin, red-amber colored, irregularly wrinkled-striate, 

 composed of 3£ very convex whorls separated by deeply 

 impressed sutures. Aperture two-thirds the length of the 

 shell, regularly ovate, oblique, its width contained If 

 times in its length ; columella arcuate, its edge thread-like 

 above. 



Alt. 13J, diam. 8, length of aperture 9 mm. 



Alt. 12 J, diam. 7, length of aperture 8J mm. 



Clarion Island, collected by Mr. R. C. McGregor, in whose honor 

 the species is named. 



This species closely resembles S, Donneti Pfr. from Chili in form, 

 but differs in color, the Chilian species being pale yellowish corneous. 

 It has the deep reddish hue of many Hawaiian Succineas, such as S- 

 canella Gld., or the Japanese group to which S. lauta belongs. S. 

 Oregonensis Lea is decidedly shorter and not of so dark a color. 



At my request Mr. McGregor furnished the following notes on 

 Clarion Island : 



" Clarion Island is some three hundred miles southwest of Cape 

 San Lucas. The sandy beaches are covered with broken coral. 

 Back of the beach where we landed is level ground for a quarter of 

 a mile, covered in places with cacti and vines {Ipomaza cathartica 

 Poir., Phaseolus atropurpureus D. C and Sophora tomentosa L.). 

 The troublesome bush, Caesalpinia Bonducella Roxb., with its sharp, 

 curved spines, abounds on the hillsides and the flats. The interior 

 of the island rises in more or less rough hills. There are quite a 

 number of elevated flats or plateaux covered with a tangle of vines, 

 grasses and shrubs. Among the last are Euphorbia Clarionensis 

 Brandegee and E. Califomica Benth., on the stems of which was 

 found the only land shell. This mollusk closely resembles the bark 

 of these plants, and was very abundant. One might collect twenty 

 or thirty specimens from a single plant. 



"Clarion Island is decidedly tropical, though it includes in its 

 fauna insular forms of birds of such temperate zone genera as Speo- 

 tyto, Zenaidura and Troglodytes. There are no mammals on the is- 

 land. Lizards and several species of snakes were captured." 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



i 



August 2. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 

 Nine persons present. 



August 9. 

 Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman in the Chair. 



Thirteen persons present. 



The following biographical note was presented by the Committe 

 on the Hayden Memorial Award : 



Otto Martin Torell. — Born in Varbergin Sweden, the 5th of 

 June, 1828, he passed the examination for entrance into the Uni- 

 versity of Lund in 1844, and was made Doctor of Philosophy, 1853. 

 He then turned his attention to medical studies, and passed the sec- 

 ond examination for physicians in the year 1858. He became 

 Adjunct Professor of Zoology in 1860, and in 18G6 was nominated 

 as Professor of. Zoology and Geology at the University of Lund. 

 He soon left the University for Stockholm, and was in 1871 ap- 

 pointed Chief of the Geological Survey of Sweden, which office he 

 resigned some months ago. 



In 1856 he visited Switzerland with the object of studying the 

 glaciers, and in 1857 he made a voyage to Iceland with the same 

 view. His main purpose was to determine whether it is probable 

 that glnciers formerly covered the whole of Scandinavia. 



In 1858, in company with A. E. Nordenskiold, he went to Spitz- 

 bergeu for the first time, and the following year to Greenland. 

 These voyages may be said to have led to the Swedish Polar Expe- 

 ditions, and Torell was himself the leader or manager of the first of 

 these of any importance, namely, the expedition to Spitzbergen in 

 1861, which was very rich in scientific results. 



The most important part of his work at Spitzbergen was his deep 

 sea investigations with the grapnel, which were executed in order to 

 study the animal life at the bottom of the sea (2,500 meters below 

 the surface), a depth from which before that time only foraminifers 

 had been obtained. This discovery afterwards led to many re- 

 searches of the sea bottom, through which, one may say, a new era 

 has arisen in the history of the geology and physical geography of 

 the ocean bed. 



Partly for scientific studies and partly as a member of geological 

 and geographical congresses, Professor Torell has made many jour- 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



neys to Denmark, Germany, Switzerland, Italy, France, Belgium, 

 Holland, England, and the United States. 



He wag one of the first Swedish naturalists to accept the glacial 

 theory in place of the theory (by Sefstrom) of the " rullstensflod." 

 Of his works, those which treat of the ice period are the most im- 

 portant. To these, belong "Contribution to the molluscan fauna, 

 with a general view of the natural state of the Arctic Regions," 

 (1859); "Investigations of the Ice Period," 1, (1873), 2, (1873), 

 and 3, (1887) ; and "On the causes of glacial phenomena in the 

 northeastern portion of North America." 



Partly by these works and partly by lectures Torell has, in Swe- 

 den as abroad, powerfully contributed to the dissemination of the 

 theory that the territory of northern Europe, where great blocks of 

 Scandinavian rocks have been found, was formerly covered by land 

 ice, extending from Scandinavia, like the ice in Greenland at the 

 present time, and not, as bad-been formerly supposed, by a frozen 

 sea (Eismeer). 



Among other works of Torell may be mentioned : " On geologi- 

 cal researches in Norway," (1865) ; " Contribution to the geognosy 

 and paleontology of the Spargurite Stages," (1867); "Petrificata 

 Suecana formationis Cambricre," (1870) ; " Sur les traces les plus 

 anciennes de Pexistence de l'homme en Suede," (1876) ; " On the 

 most important crystalline minerals," (1882); "The deposits on 

 both sides of the boundary between Sweden and Norway," (1888). 

 In 1868 the Scientific Society in Haarlem awarded to him its first 

 prize for his work on the origin of the diluvial deposits at Gronin- 

 gen in Holland. 



Dr. Torell is a member of the Royal Society of Sciences of Swedens 

 (1870), of the Agricultural Academy (1872), and of many other 

 scientific societies in Sweden and abroad. 



He is Commander of the Swedish " North Star ; " Grand Officer 

 of the Italian Order of the Crown ; Knight of the second class of 

 the Russian Order of St. Anna ; Commander of the Danish Danne- 

 brog ; Officer of Public Instruction and Officier de la Legion 

 d'honneur. 



August 16. 



Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman in the Chair. 

 Ten persons present. 

 Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



"Description of a new genus and species of Microtine Rodent 

 from Siberia." By Gerrit S. Miller, Jr. 



" Notes on the Arctic Red-backed Mice." By Gerrit S. Miller, 

 Jr. 



August 23. 



Mpv. Benjamin Smith Lyman in the Chair. 



Six persons present. 



The death of James Hall, a Correspondent, the 7th inst., was 

 announced. 



August 30. 

 Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman in the Chair. 

 Nine persons present. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : — 




358 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



NOTES ON THE ARCTIC RED-BACKED MICE. 

 BY GEKRIT S. MILLER, JR. 



" We challenge the proof that Mus rutilus is not a circumpolar 

 species." The view thus forcibly expressed by Dr. Elliott Coues 

 twenty-one years ago 1 fairly represents current opinion in regard to 

 the Arctic Red-backed Mice, at least so far as concerns those of 

 Alaska and the Old World. From time to time during this period, 

 Evotomys rufocanus has been recognized as a distinct form ; but 

 Evotomys rutilus is universally regarded as an exceptionally homo- 

 geneous and wide-ranging circumpolar species. Writing of the 

 Red-backed Mice in 1897, Mr. Vernon Bailey says : " The only 

 circumpolar species [of Evotomys] is the Arctic E. rutilus, which 

 does not undergo any considerable change throughout the cir- 

 cumference of the Arctic zone." 2 



A recent examination of the Arctic red-backed mice in the Uni- 

 ted States National Museum convinces me that the Evotomys rutilus 

 of authors is far from the unvarying species that it has been repre- 

 sented. While the material at hand is too limited to form the 

 basis of anything like a final revision, it clearly proves the distinct- 

 ness of Evotomys rufocanus, and also the existence of three forms of 

 so-called rutilus, one in the extreme north of Europe, one in Kam- 

 tschatka, and one in Alaska. 



The Mus rutilus of Pallas came from Siberia immediately east of 

 the Obi. As no specimens from this region are available for com- 

 parison, the question of the exact identity of the species must, for 

 the time being, remain open. Geographical considerations lead me 

 to apply the name rutihis provisionally to the most westerly of the 

 Old World forms rather than to the one occurring in Kamtschatka. 

 The latter is the Arvicola wosnessenskii of Polyakoff. Its identity 

 with Richardson's Arvicola rubricatus from Bering Strait, is too un- 

 certain to be worthy of serious consideration at present. The lat- 

 ter is described as slate color on the back, and nearlv scarlet on 

 the sides — a color pattern quite unknown in the genus Evotomys. 



1 Monogr. N. Am. Eodentia, p. 138. 



2 Proc. Biolog. Soc. Washington, XI, p. 113. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



Even if it be assumed, as Baird has suggested, 3 that the colors of 

 the back aud sides were accidentally transposed in Richardson's 

 description, the case is not much helped, since no known member of 

 the rutilus group has slate colored sides. Although Baird assumed 

 that Richardson's animal came from Siberia, the statement in the 

 original description that it " appears to be quite distinct from any 

 American meadow mouse hitherto described," leads to the belief 

 that the type locality was on the Alaskan side of the strait. The 

 objections to applying the name to the Alaskan animal are, how- 

 ever, no less than in the case of the Kamtschatkan species. 



The general characters of Evotomys rufocanus, and of the three 

 species hitherto confused under the name rutilus, are given in the 

 following synopsis : 



Teeth large and heavy as in Microtus (never perfectly rooted ?) ; 

 molar rows about 6.5 mm. ; posterior lower molar long, some- 

 what encapsulated ; skull with prominent postorbital processes ; 



sides clear gray (highly aberrant) E. rufocanus. 



Teeth small and weak (perfectly rooted in adult) ; molar rows 

 about 5 mm. ; posterior lower molar short, not encapsulated ; 

 skull without prominent postorbital processes; sides strongly 

 fulvous (typical Evotomys). 



Skull narrow ; rostral protuberances standing out conspicu- 

 ously from root of zygoma (fig. 1 a) ; audital bulla? small ; 



feet slender E. wosnessenskii. 



Skull broad ; rostral protuberances not standing out con- 

 spicuously from root of zygoma (fig. 1 b) ; audital bulla? 

 large ; feet broad. 



Nasal bones short, contained 3* times in greatest length 

 of skull ; tail 34-40 mm. ; color generally chestnut 



E. rutilus. 



Nasal bones long, contained only 3 times in greatest 



length of skull ; tail 20-30 mm. ; color generally dull 



ferruginous E. alascensis. 



Evotomys rufocanus (Sundevall). 



1846. Arvicola rufocanus Sundevall, Oefv. Vet. Akad. Foerh., p. 122. 

 1897. Evotomys rufocanus Bailev, Proc. Biolog. Soc. Washington, XI, p. 

 122, May 13, 1897. 



Skull. — The only skull of Evotomys rufocanus that I have at hand 

 is badly damaged. Nevertheless it shows strong characters to dis- 



s Mam. N. Am., p. 551. 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



tinguish it from that of E. rutilus, or in fact from any other known 

 member of the genus. The anterior edge of the squamosal is pro- 

 duced to form a very distinct postorbital process, quite as in many 

 species of Microtus. The mandible is massively built and, like the 

 skull, shows a degree of angularity more in keeping with Microtus 

 than Evotomys. The palate, although damaged, appears to be that 

 of typical Evotomys. Mr. Bailey says of this species : " Evotomys 

 rufoeanus (Sundevall) of northern Europe is remarkable for its large 

 molars and almost microtine form of skull." He gives the follow- 

 ing measurements of a skull from Lapland : basal length, 25 mm. ; 

 nasals, 7.6; zygomatic breadth, 15 ; mastoid breadth, 12.2; alveo- 

 lar length of upper molar series 6.7. 



Teeth. — The teeth of Evotomys rufoeanus are chiefly remarkable 

 for their large size and great strength. Their development rela- 

 tively to the size of the skull is more in accord with the proportions 

 normal in Microtus than in Evotomys. Apparently the molars do 

 not develop as complete roots as in other species of Evotomys. The 

 root of the lower incisor is nearly as long as in some species of 

 Microtus, and the long back lower molar is encapsulated, though 

 not conspicuously so. The enamel pattern (fig. 2 d) differs widely 

 from that of Evotomys rutilus (fig. 2 a). Its most striking peculiar- 

 ities are the simplicity of the posterior upper molar, and the shallow 

 reentrant angles on the outer side of the posterior lower molar. 



Color. — A specimen in fresh autumnal pelage has a well defined 

 dorsal stripe of a color intermediate between the hazel aud cinna- 

 mon rufous of Ridgway. This stripe begins between the eyes and 

 extends back nearly to base of tail. Ears colored like dorsal stripe. 

 Sides an indescribable grizzle of hair brown, whitish, black, and 

 slate color. Whole under parts soiled bufiy-white, darkened by the 

 slaty bases of the hairs, which show through irregularly on the sur- 

 face. Cheeks, muzzle, and sides of head similar to sides of body, 

 but slightly darker. Tail sharply bicolor, brownish above, dirty 

 white below. Feet dirty whitish. 



General remarks. — Mr. Bailey has already called attention to the 

 fact that Evotomys rufoeanus " is the most divergent form of the 

 genus known." So divergent is the animal that it may well be 

 questioned whether it is to be regarded as a true Evotomys. Its 

 heavy and apparently imperfectly rooted teeth more closely resem- 

 ble those of many species of typical Microhcs than they do the weak, 

 perfectly rooted teeth of true Evotomys. The relationships of the 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



361 



root of the lower' incisor and the posterior lower molar, while not 

 typical of either genus are clearly suggestive of Microtus rather 

 than Evotomys. The palate structure, on the other hand, appears 

 to agree with that of Evotomys. The question of the animal's true 

 position cannot be answered until good series of specimens represent- 

 ing different ages are available for comparison. 



Evotomys wosnessenskii (Polyakoff). 



1839. ?? Arvicola rubricaius Richardson, Zoology of Beechey's Voyage of the 



Blossom, p. 7 (Bering Strait). 

 1881. Arvicola wosnessenskii Polyakoff, Appendix to Volume XXXIX of 



the Memoirs of the St. Petersburg Academy of Sciences, p. 56 



(text in Russian) Kamtschatka. 

 1884. Arvicola wosnessenskii Lataste, Ann. Mus. Civ. di St. Nat di Genova,. 



XX, p. 28. 



Skull. — The skull of Evotomys ivos?ie$se7iskii as compared with 

 that of E. rutilus and E. alascensis is slightly narrower and more 

 depressed, though the differences in general form are not very strik- 

 ing. The anterior edges of the antorbital foramina are folded out- 

 ward so as to form conspicuous swellings, which for want of a bet- 

 ter name I have called rostral protuberances. These protuberances 

 are apparently formed by the wall of a canal which takes a super- 

 ficial downward course from the anterior edge of the antorbital for- 

 amen, and probably transmits a branch of the fifth nerve. In Evo- 

 tomys wosnessenskii the rostral protuberances stand further forward 

 from the bases of the zygomata than in E. alascensis (fig. 1). This 



position as well as their large size makes 

 them very conspicuous. Audital bulla? 

 small, much smaller than in E. rutilus or 

 E. alascensis, their greatest breadth about 

 equal to alveolar length of maxillary 

 tooth row. Mandible slender and lightly 

 built, with weaker articular process and 

 angular process than in the related species. 

 Measurements of an adult skull from 

 Bering Island : greatest length, 24 mm. ; 

 basal length, 22.8; basilar length, 21 ; zygo- 

 matic breadth, 13.6 ; mastoid breadth, 

 11; interorbital constriction, 4 ; nasals, 

 7.8 ; incisive foramen, 5 6 ; diastema, 7.4 ;, 

 maxillary molar series (alveoli), 5 ; man- 

 dible, 13.8 ; mandibular molar series (al- 

 veoli), 5. 



Fig. 1. Rostrum of Evo- 

 tomys wosnessenskii (upper 

 figure) and E. alascensis 

 (lower figure), (x 3f ). 



24 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Teeth. — The teeth of Evotomys wosnessenskii (fig. 2 b) present no 

 characters of special importance. 



Ears. — The ears are slightly smaller than in E. alascensis, but 

 not peculiar in form. 



Feet. — The hind feet are slender and much less densely furred 

 than in E. alascensis. The latter character at first sight appears to 

 be due to season, as most of the National Museum specimens of E. 

 wosnessenskii were taken in summer, while the Alaskan series is 

 chiefly composed of October skins. Several of the Kamtschatkan 

 specimens were, however, taken during the last week in September, 

 and one as late as October 8th. In none of these does the hairiness 

 of the hind foot closely approach the condition found in Alaskan 

 specimens taken from three weeks to a month later. 



Tail. — The tail is more slender than in E. alascensis, and less 

 densely haired than in either E. alascensis or E. rutilus. The differ- 

 ence is fully apparent on comparison of specimens in winter pelage. 



Color. — Autumnal specimens have the dorsal stripe a clear, deep, 

 tawny, fiuely and inconspicuously sprinkled with black. Sides 

 ochraceous buff. Belly dull whitish, faintly darkened by the slaty 

 bases of the hairs. Summer adults are essentially similar, but im- 

 mature specimens are much darker and duller. 



Measurements. — For measurements of Evotomys wosnessenskii see 

 table, page 366. 



Specimens examined. — Total number of specimens examined 26, 

 from the following localities : 



Kamtschatka: Bering Island, 17; Kalakhtyrka, 1 ; Petropaul- 

 ski, 6 ; no definite locality, 2. 



General remarks. — Evotomys ivosnessenskii is more distinct from 

 E. rutilus and E. alascensis than either of these is from the other. 

 Aside from its cranial characters it is easily distinguishable from its 

 allies by its slender, thinly haired tail and feet. 



Evotomys rutilus (Pallas). 



1778. Mus rutilus Pallas, Nov. Sp., Quadr. Glir. Ord.,p. 246 (Siberia, east 



of the Obi). 

 1874. Evotomys rutilus Coues, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, p. 187, 



(part). 

 Skull. — In the north European Evotomys to which I have pro- 

 visionally restricted the name rutilus, the skull closely resembles 

 that of E. alascensis, except that the rostral protuberances are placed 

 further forward, as in E. wosnessenskii, and the nasal bones are 

 shorter relatively to the length of the skull. In E. alascensis the 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



nasal bones form about 33.3 percent of the occipitonasal length, 

 while in E. rutilus they form about 28.5 percent only. The differ- 

 ence is due to the less backward extent of the nasals in E. rutilus, 

 rather than to any actual shortening of the rostrum. Audital bulla? 

 large and rounded as in E. alascensis, very different from those of 

 E. ivosnessenskii. 



Measurements of an adult skull from Lapland : greatest length, 

 24 mm. ; basal length, 22.4 ; basilar length, 20.6 ; zygomatic breadth, 

 13; mastoid breadth, 11.8 ; interorbital constriction, 4 ; nasals, 7; 

 incisive foramen, 5 ; diastema, 7.4 ; maxillary molar series (alve- 

 oli), 5 ; mandible, 13.8 ; mandibular molar series (alveoli), 5. 



Teeth. — The teeth of Evotomys rutilus (fig. 2 a) do not differ ap- 

 preciably from those of E. ivosnessenskii and E. alascensis. 



Ears, feet and tail. — So far as can be judged from dry skins the 

 ears of Evotomys rutilus do not differ appreciably in form from those 

 of E. alascensis and E. ivosnessenskii. They are, however, ap- 

 parently a trifle larger than in the latter. Feet broad, as in the 

 Alaskan form. Tail about as in E. alascensis, but considerably 

 longer and somewhat less densely haired. 



Color. — An adult male from northern Sweden taken in December 

 and another specimen from same region but without date, agree 

 very closely in color. Both have the dorsal stripe a clear bright 

 chestnut, faintly darkened by a slight admixture of black-tipped 

 hairs. The sides are ochraceous-buff, and the belly dirty white or 

 cream color. Feet whitish ; ears chestnut. Tail sharply bicolor, 

 brownish, tinged with red above, dirty white below. Fur every- 

 where slaty plumbeous at base, this color appearing irregularly at 

 surface on belly and sides. Two other undated skins from Lap- 

 land are slightly paler in color. 



Measurements. — For measurements of Evotomys rutilus see table, 

 page 366. 



Specimens examined. — Four, from the following localities : 



Lapland : no definite locality, 2. 



Sweden : Karesnaudo, 1 ; no definite locality (northern Sweden), 1. 



General remarks. — The Arctic red-backed mouse of northern 

 Europe is readily distinguishable among the known Arctic forms* 



4 There are no less than five of these, E. rutilus, E. wosnessensldi, E. alas- 

 censis, E. ungava, and E. proteus. For descriptions of the last two, both of 

 which are from Labrador, see Bailey, Proc. Biolog. Soc. Washington, XI, 

 pp. 130, 131, and 137, May 13, 1897. 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



by its bright color, absence of any known dusky phase, relatively 

 long tail, and small square skull with large audital bulla?, conspicu- 

 ous rostral protuberances, and short nasal bones. 



Evotomys alascensis sp. nov. 



1S39. ?? Arvicola rubricatus Richardson, Zoology of Beechey's Voyage of 



the Blossom, p. 7 (Bering Strait). 

 1877. Evotomys rutilus Coues, Monogr. N. Am. Rodentia, p. 136 (part). 

 1897. Evotomys rutilus Bailey> Proc Biolog. Soc Washington, XI, p. 118 



(part). 



Type. — Adult S , number ^l United States National Museum, 

 collected at St. Michael's, Alaska, October 26, 1897, by E. W. Nel- 

 son. Original number, 96. 



General characters. — See synopsis, page 359. 



Skull. — The skull of Evotomys alascensis more closely resembles 

 that of E. rutilus than it does that of its geographically nearer ally 

 E. wosnessenskii. The brain case is broad and squarish in outline. 

 Squamosals produced into very small, pointed postorbital processes. 

 Audital bullae large, their greatest breadth considerably more than 

 alveolar length of maxillary molar series. Rostral protuberances 

 (fig. 1 b) much closer to roots of zygomata than in either of the Old 

 World species. The nasal bones (fig. 1) are longer than in either 

 E. rutilus or E. wosnessenskii. This difference is not due to greater 

 length of rostrum, but to greater backward prolongation of the nasal 

 bones. The nasal branches of the premaxillaries also extend fur- 

 ther back than in either of the Old World forms. 



The skull of the type specimen measures : greatest length, 25 mm ; 

 basal length 22.6; basilar length, 21.8 ; zygomatic breadth, 13.4 ; 

 mastoid breadth, 11.6 ; interorbital constriction, 4.6 ; nasals, 8 ; in- 

 cisive foramen, 5 ; diastema, 7 ; maxillary molar series (alveoli), 

 5.2 ; mandible, 14 ; mandibular molar series (alveoli), 5. 



Teeth. — The enamel pattern (fig. 2 c) is essentially as in Old 

 World Arctic species. 



Ears. — The ears do not differ in form from those of E. rutilus and 

 E. wosnessenskii, but they are appreciably larger than in the lat- 

 ter. 



Feet. — The front feet present no characters of importance. The 

 hind feet, like those of E. rutilus, are short, broad, and very densely 

 haired both above, on the sides, and below. On the sole the hair 

 extends from the heel to the middle row of tubercles. 



Color. — In the type the dorsal stripe is dull ferruginous sprinkled 

 with black hairs, which, however, are very inconspicuous. Sides 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



365 



ochraceous-buff, finely ' lined ' with black. Belly clear buff, shading 

 to grayish on the throat. Feet buffy- whitish ; face mixed buffy and 



Fig. 2. Enamel pattern of Evotomys rutilus (a), E. wosnessenskii (b), E. 

 •alascensis (c), and E. rufoca?ius(&). Lower teeth below, upper teeth above. 

 (xlO). 



reddish. Ears con color, with dorsal stripe. Tail sharply bicolor, 

 buffy below, brownish tinged with red above. 



A series of seventeen skins taken at St. Michaels, Alaska, during 

 October and November show little variation in] color. In some 

 specimens there is less of the buff wash on the belly, but this is ab- 

 sent in one only. Several are much darker below than the type. 

 In one immature individual the red of the dorsal stripe is much 

 duller than in the adults. 



Measurements. — For measurements see accompanying table. 




366 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



03 



a 



o 



H 



O 

 l> 



fa 

 o 



M 



H 

 O 

 « 



< 



fa 



o 



fa 



o 



fa 

 fa 

 as 



fa 



fa 

 fa 

 W 

 H 



fa 

 O 



GQ 



H 



fa 



a 

 « 



fa 

 fa 



CO 



<5 



fa 



a 



•STijcara raojj jb^ 



J9qran>j 



a ^ i i *>. 



i i 1 2 i i i I i I a 



« M « N N j. C Q O ^ C C ^1 IO i" IO IO iC '^ H 



o 



a 



03 





'B'Sfl'S'S'S'S'S - » a> 

 en ce en co en 'en "^ 



r/jaQ 



to (/; to tfl co tc m w ^3 ri a 



— — _____-_ £ £ £ 



Fh '£ "S *h "'« Vi "l4 "3 +3 i! fe 



pq ffl pq « « pq M m ^ £ g 



— " c/T as en & go* nT as 



- _li KJ — " rt 7Z n T". 



T3 5 .£ J= J3 .5 .£ .£3 -d 



"&"£ ^ ^ ^ ^ *^ ^ <^ 



<o <-> ^ <*i 



« 8 



^<«<<i 



^J\l\*^J t *-^)^)^^> 



^(-,^0,^0,^^*0 



'o °t <*) «•> *■» **> 'o 

 ^ ^ ^) ^ %» %> \) 



«i <o t, t, to S 



.*» ,*9 ,°> .^ .^ .**» .•* .^ 



j;ssa'4i'ii»t<u^^>i)V 



to^^^'j^^^i'-C- 



_ <o »o *o *o ^0 U 





fc> « « Q « Q « 



kjkj^kj^^^kj^kj^^tiqtiqtjqc^^^tjqk^ 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 367 



Specimens examined. — Total number of specimens examined 21, 

 from the following localities : 



Alaska: Fort Yukon, 2 ; St. Michsels, 19. 



General remarks. — Evotomys alascensis appears to be more closely 

 related to the European E. rutilus than to the Kamtschatkan E. 

 wosnessenskii or to any of the American species. It has the broad 

 skull, large audital bulla? and broad feet of E. rutilus, but differs 

 from both European and Kamtschatkan species in its long nasal 

 bones, and in the position of the rostral protuberances. 



I am permitted by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution 

 to published this paper here. 




368 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW GENUS AND SPECIES OF MICROTINE RODENT 



FROM SIBERIA. 



BY GERRIT S. MILLER, JR. 



Before the first ocean telegraph cable was laid, the Western 

 Union Telegraph Company organized an expedition to investigate 

 the practicability of an overland international line by way of Alaska 

 and Siberia. A few mammals were collected during this explora- 

 tion, and among them is a mouse representing an uudescribed genus 



and species. It was 

 taken at Plover Bay, 

 Bering Strait, Siberia. 

 In general appearance 

 this animal resembles a 

 lemming. So close is 

 the likeness that the spe- 

 cimen remained for 

 many years in the Na- 

 tional Museum collec- 

 tion labelled ' Myodes.' 

 Recently, however, Mr. 

 F. W. True detected the 

 error in identification 

 and referred the subject 

 to me for further study. 

 I find that the species, 

 while possessing no im- 

 portant characters not 

 found in Microtus and 

 Evotomys, yet combines 



the peculiarities of these 

 Fig. 1. Skull of Aschizomys lemminus (x 2). twQ genera gQ perfectIy 



that it is necessary either to recognize the new form as an annectant 

 genus, or to reduce Evotomys to the rank of a subgenus of Microtus, 

 and treat the Plover Bay animal as still another subgenus. While 

 the latter course would be the more logical, it would involve the 

 serious inconvenience of uniting two large, widely spread, and else- 

 where sharply defined genera. Hence I prefer the first alternative. 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



3G9 



ASCHIZOMYS gen. nov. (Microtince). 

 Type, Aschizomys lemminus sp. nov. 



Generic characters. — Skull (fig. 1) broad, depressed, lightly built, 

 smooth and rounded. Palate as in true Evotomys. 1 Molars small 

 and weak, their angles rounded as in Evotomys (fig. 2), but the teeth 

 growing from a persistent pulp as in Microtus (fig. 3). Lower 

 incisor with long root (nearly as in Microtus) 

 which strongly displaces root of large poste- 

 rior lower molar (fig. 4). Form lemming- 

 like. Tail vertebra? shorter than hind foot • 

 pencil nearly as long as vertebrae. Plantar 

 tubercles six. Number of mammae unknown. 



Remarks. — As already intimated, the 

 proper disposition of this genus is open to 

 serious question. It must be recognized as 

 an intermediate between Evotomys and Mi- 

 crotus, but opinions may well vary between 

 the logical course of combining all three 

 under one generic name, and the convenient 

 expedient of allowing each to stand as a full 

 genus. For the present I have chosen the ™ 

 latter course. A third alternative would be tern of Aschizomys lem- 

 to remove from Microtus and unite w 7 ith mmus - (xlO). 

 Aschizomys the subgenera Eothenomys 2 and Anteliomys, 2 in which the 

 palate structure of Evotomys is exactly reproduced. With these 

 might be joined the highly aberrant Evotomys rufocanus. 3 This would 

 not only remove anomalous forms from Microtus and Evotomys, but 

 would also create a fairly homogeneous group characterized by the 

 combination of shelf-like palate with long-rooted lower incisor and 

 encapsulated posterior lower molar. When good material represent- 

 ing all these questionable forms can be brought together, some such 

 course as this may prove necessary. 



Aschizomys lemminus sp. nov. 



Type. — Adult, number ^^ United States National Museum, 

 collected at Kelsey Station, Plover Bay, Bering Strait, by C. W. 

 Baxter. 



•See North American Fauna, No. 12, fig. 7, and pi. II, fig. 10, July 23, 

 1896. 



'See North American Fauna, No. 12, pp. 45-49, pi. II, figs. 8 and 11. 

 3 For characters of Evotomys rufocanus see antea, p. 359-361 . 




370 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



Fig. 3. Side view of molars 

 upper figure Evotomys, lower fig 

 ure Aschizomys (x 2f). 



External form. i — Ears broad and rounded, longer than the fur imme- 

 diately in front of their bases. (In the dry skin the ears have shrunk 

 considerably and appear much shorter than the surrounding fur). 



Muzzle hairy ; septum of the nostrils 

 naked, the free edges crenulate and 

 grooved transversely. 



Fore feet large, with five prominent 

 tubercles. Palms naked, claws short 

 and stout; thumb rudimentary, with a 

 convex, compressed nail. 



Hind foot broad ; soles with six tu- 

 bercles, of which five are subequal and 

 one much smaller. Hinder part of 

 sole densely hairy as far forward as the 

 posterior tubercle; anteriorly granu- 

 lar, with a considerable number of 

 short, white hairs interspersed among 

 the' granules. Claws moderate, over- 

 hung with white hairs. Tail club-shaped. Whiskers long, reach- 

 ing to the shoulder. 



Fur and color. — The fur is everywhere dense, soft and silky, that 

 on the back about 10 mm. in length ; on the belly it is nearly as 

 long. Throughout the pelage the hairs are slate-gray at base. On 

 the back the slaty portion occupies about the basal two-thirds of the 

 hairs. Beyond this is a narrow subterminal band of pale yellowish 

 wood-brown. The extreme tips of the hairs are sepia. The result- 

 ing surface color is a fine grizzle of sepia and yellowish-brown, very 

 uniform throughout the dorsal surface. There is no indication of a 

 darker dorsal area, but the shading is slightly heavier across the 

 lumbar region than elsewhere. In front of each ear is an indistinct 

 tuft of whitish hairs. Sides, belly, all four feet and legs, and under 

 side of tail light straw-yellow, sharply defined from color of dorsal 

 surface. 



This description can be only approximately correct, since it is 

 taken from the skin which had been immersed in alcohol for many 

 years. 



Tail. — Before skinning, the tail was club-shaped, and in its pres- 

 ent condition it retains a trace of this form. For a short distance 



4 From notes made by Mr. F. W. True before the specimen was removed 

 from alcohol. 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



371 



at base it is covered with short, loose hairs, similar in texture to 

 those of the body. Near the middle of the tail the hairs become 

 abruptly much elongated, stiffened and strongly directed backward. 

 The pencil thus formed is nearly as long as the tail 

 vertebrae. It is distinctly flattened from above. 

 The general appearance of the tail is much like 

 that of Dicrostonyx, but it is even more bushy 

 than in average specimens of any lemming. 



Skull. — In general form the skull (fig. 1) is 

 much like that of Evotomys alascensis, though it is 

 considerably larger. The rostrum is more taper- 

 ing than in E. alascensis, and the rostral protuber- 

 ances, 5 although apparently uninjured, are much 

 less conspicuous. The incisive foramen is consid- 

 erably shorter than in Evotomys alascensis or E. 



Fig. 4. Inner wosnessenskii ; audital bulhe of about the same 

 side of left man- , , . . ,, c ,i n i .• i • 



dible viewed ac t ua l size as in the former, therefore relatively m- 



slightly from be- termediate between the two. Mandible rather 



nn , upper g- more heavily built than in Evotomys alascensis. 



lower figure As- Teeth. — Upper incisors relatively smaller than 



chizomys. (x 3f). ' m Evotomys alascensis ; molars relatively slightly 



larger. Enamel pattern (fig. 2) apparently not essentially different 



from that of the Arctic red-backed mice. 6 The posterior upper molar 



is, however, remarkably long. It has four distinct salient angles on 



each side. 



Measurements. — Total length, 99 mm. ; head and body, 85 ; tail 



vertebras, 16; pencil, 14; hind foot, 17.5; ear from meatus, 11.5; 



ear in dry skin, 8.3. 



Skull : greatest length, 25.4 mm. ; basal length, 23.8 ; basilar 



length, 22; zygomatic breadth, 14.8; interorbital breadth, 4; 



mastoid breadth, 12.6; occipital depth, 7; fronto-palatal depth (at 



middle of molar series), 7; length of nasals, 3; incisive foramen, 



4.6; maxillary tooth row (alveoli), 6; mandible, 15; mandibular 



tooth row (alveoli), 6. 



I am permitted by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution 



to published this paper here. 



5 Seeantea, p. 364. 



6 See antea, p. 365, fig. 2, a-c. 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



BOTANICAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE MEXICAN FLORA, ESPECIALLY 

 ON THE FLORA OF THE VALLEY OF MEXICO. 



BY JOHN W. HARSHBERGER, PH. D. 



Leaving Philadelphia, Tuesday August 4, 1896, for a botanical 

 excursion to Mexico, the capital of the Republic was reached Tues- 

 day August 11th, at 6 p. m. Several stops were made en route, one 

 at St. Louis, where the Missouri Botanical Garden was visited, and 

 one at Eagle Pass, Texas, where Sunday was spent. During the 

 sojourn in the City of Mexico, numerous botanical trips were made 

 into the surrounding country in company with Mr. C. G. Pringle, 

 to whom I extend my most hearty thanks for much kindness and 

 suggestive help. The itinerary is herewith given. 



ITINERARY. 



August 12, 1896, {Wednesday). — Visited a number of the lots in 

 the City of Mexico, where cattle and burros are allowed to roam at 

 will, and where a number of interesting plants were collected. 



August 13th, (Thursday). — Mr. Pringle, Tranquelino Duran, a 

 Mexican boy, and the writer visited Salazar by the National Railroad. 

 Salazar is situated on the crest of the western mountain ridge, 

 known as the Sierra de las Cruces. Here was fought, in 1810, the 

 battle between Hidalgo and the Spaniards, resulting in a victory for 

 the patriots. Salazar is situated at an elevation of from 10,000 to 

 11,000 feet above sea level. Many cool springs gush from the hill- 

 sides, mostly denuded of timber, and many alpine plants were found 

 in the upland meadows. 



August 15th, (Saturday). — Tlalpam was visited this day. In 

 reaching this town, we passed through Cherubusco, made famous by 

 the fight there between the Americans and Mexicans. Tlalpam is 

 a quiet suburban town of some 7,000 inhabitants, fourteen miles 

 south of the City of Mexico. There are many flower and fruit gar- 

 dens hereabouts, for the supply of the city markets ; important fac- 

 tories of cotton, woollen cloth and paper are in the neighborhood. 

 The eastern road from Tlalpam leads to Lake Xochimilcho, where 

 we gathered the several interesting aquatics found on and near the 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



chinarapas. The botanist must needs hire a canoe to procure speci- 

 mens. The town is a veritable Venice. 



August 17, (Monday). — The town and hills of Guadalupe, the 

 Cerro de Tepeyac and Cerro de Gachupines visited, and a number 

 of noteworthy plants collected. Guadalupe, some three miles north 

 of the capital, is reached by tram-cars from the Plaza Mayor, and 

 is interesting on account of the Sacred Chapel of Nuestra Seiiora de 

 Guadalupe. 



August ISth, (Tuesday). — An interesting locality visited this day 

 was that of LaCima near the summit of Ajusco at about 10,000 

 feet elevation. The hill above the Indian town afforded more plants 

 than could be conveniently carried. The pedregal in the neighbor- 

 hood also yielded a rich harvest. 



August 20th, (Thursday). — This day was spent in the neighbor- 

 hood of Tlalpam, where the fields and ditches yielded a rich supply 

 of plants. The edge of the Tlalpam pedregal was visited, and the 

 interesting plants of the northern portion of the lava-bed collected 

 and noted. 



August 22d, (Saturday). — Another trip was made to the Tlalpam 

 pedregal and to the hills beyond. In the pedregal, Senecio praecox 

 DC, Cereus serpentimis and Wigandia were noted, and specimens 

 collected for future study at home. 



August 25th, (Tuesday). — The pedregal of Tlalpam extending to 

 Tizapan, the lava bed was visited in the neighborhood of that town. 

 Here the plants were found in the same abundance as lower down 

 the mountain side, so that the pedregal in all its parts may be said 

 to be a veritable flower garden. 



August 26th, (Wednesday). — The writer left the City of Mexico 

 for the Mexican tropics, via the Mexican Railroad to Orizaba and 

 Cordoba ; the next few days were spent amid the tropical luxuriance 

 of the Mexican flora. Epiphytic orchids and other interesting 

 plants were collected about Orizaba and in the neighborhood of the 

 waterfall called Rincon Grande. 



August 29th, (Saturday). — Returned to the City of Mexico, where 

 the plants collected in the tierra caliente were preserved, some in 

 formalin, others by drying. 



August 31st, (Monday). — Visited the Tlalpam pedregal on the 

 Mexican, Cuernavaca and Pacific Railroad at a much higher ele- 

 vation than formerly visited, at about 9,000 feet. Here Dahlias 

 were found in the greatest profusion and abundance. Returning 




374 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



down the mountain side after a rough tramp over the pedregal, we 

 took a train for the City at Eslava, where a number of plants were 

 found. 



September 1st, (Tuesday). — Left the City of Mexico alone en route 

 for Guadalajara via Irapuato, where a number of days (September 2d 

 to September 5th) were spent. The celebrated barranca was visited 

 in company with an Indian, and a number of plants collected. 



September 5th-September 9, 1896. — This time was profitably spent 

 in a trip to Tampico on the Gulf Coast. 1 En route the beautiful 

 Tamasopo Canon was admired, as also the extensive palm forests 

 about Rascon and eastward. No botanical exploration of the 

 country was made. 



September 10, 1896. — Ciudad Juarez and El Paso were reached on 

 the homeward journey. A hasty botanical survey was made of the 

 hills about El Paso, but little of interest was found in the immediate 

 vicinage of the town, because of the extreme dryness of the season. 



TOPOGRAPHY AND GEOGRAPHY OF THE PLACES VISITED. 



The Valley of Mexico, situated 7,350 feet above the level of the 

 sea, is of an elliptical form with its long axis running in a north 

 and south direction. The greatest length of the valley according to 

 Orozco and Berra is from Cerro de Sincoque on the north to Cerro 

 del Teutli on the southern border of Lake Xochimilcho, a distance 

 of about 45 miles. The greatest breadth of the valley is from the 

 Hacienda de los Morales, westward a distance of 21 miles. This 

 most beautiful of basin-shaped valleys is walled in by high hills and 

 lofty mountains on all sides. Sierra del Ajusco rises in a series of 

 ridges and peaks to the south, the highest point the volcano of 

 Ajusco, long since extinct, lifting its peak 13,612 feet above sea 

 level. In the east, this ridge of mountains sinks, and forms between 

 Amecameca and Ozumba, a broad saddle, over which passes the 

 railroad from the capital to the State of Morelos. The eastern 

 mountainous rim stretches itself as a mighty wall, separating the 

 Valley of Anahuac from Pueblo. It culminates in the southeast in 

 the volcanic peak of Popocatepetl (17,782 feet), and in Iztaccihuatl 

 a long high broken mountain mass, 16.060 feet elevation. Contigu- 

 ous to Iztaccihuatllying to the north, we find the continuous ranges 

 called Cerro Telapon, Cerro Tlaloc, Cerro Tlamacas, Cerro Cha- 



1 See an article by the writer in Bot. Gazette, May, 1S98, p. 362. 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



375 



pingo and the small Sierra de Patlachique — to the east as an outlier 

 in the Valley of Puebla, Monte de Rio Frio. These are all of vol- 

 canic origin. About the north foot of Cerro Tlamacas spread the 

 the fruitful plains of Otumba and Apam. The railroad to Vera 

 Cruz crosses here. 



The enclosure of the Valley of Mexico is completed to the west by 

 the Sierra de las Cruces, continued northward by the spurs called 

 Monte alto and Monte bajo, and ending finall}- in the Sierra de Tepot- 

 zatlan and Cerro de Sincoque, separated from the northern range of 

 hills by the railroad cut and drainage ditch, Tajo de Nochistongo. 

 The floor of the valley is generally level and uniform with six large 

 lakes filling the more depressed portions. Their size and elevation 

 in metres and square kilometers is given in the subjoined table : 



The relative elevation, minus or plus, has been referred to the 

 base of one of the corners of the National Palace on the Plaza Mayor, 

 as the zero level. During the diluvial period of geologic time the 

 lakes were very much more extended than now. The whole Valley 

 of Mexico was filled by a large inland sea with here and there a vol- 

 canic hill rising, as an island, or as a peninsula, out of its surface. 

 Texcoco was in the past quite saline. Fernando Cortez in a letter to 

 Charles V, dated 1500, says : " En el dicho llano (del Valle de Mex- 

 ico) hay dos lagunas, que casi lo ocupan todo. E la una de estas 

 lagunas es de aqua dulce, y la otra, que es mayor, es de aqua salada." 

 The earth of the plains surrounded Texcoco Lake is impregnated 

 with salt, and in many places the saline material forms a rich efflo- 

 rescence. The flora of this region of the valley has a marked char- 

 acter. Various species of Chenopodium, Atriplex, Salsola and Grati- 




376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



ola are found growing here as saline plants. The chinampas are 

 the so-called floating islands, more especially found in Lake Xochi- 

 milcho. 



A number of small conical volcanoes rise from the floor of the 

 valley, and are known locally as Cerro de taza (cupped hill, Kup- 

 pen). One remarkable collection of these low hills is to be found 

 in the neighborhood of the town of Guadalupe, separating the Val- 

 ley of Mexico into a northern and southern portion. These, the so- 

 called Sierra de Guadalupe, are connected with the western mount- 

 ain chain Monte bajo, by the low ridge Cuesta de Barrientos, and 

 with the north-eastern ridges by the Cerro de Chiconautla. The 

 northern half of the valley thus formed is occupied by Lakes Zum- 

 pango, Xaltocan and San Cristobal, the southern half by the three 

 lakes best known to travellers, Texcoco, Chalco and Xochimilcho. 



A few words are necessary as to the geography, topography and 

 geology of the region visited botanically. Cerro de Tepeyac, one of 

 the hills of the aforementioned Sierra de Guadalupe, is 140 ft. high ; 

 very few plants are found on this hill. If one ascends the east side, 

 he finds for the first 115 ft. a fine crystalline rock of a dark violet- 

 gray color of a close texture frequently spotted with green, scaly, 

 porous particles. The summit of the hill is covered with a pitch- 

 stone-like rock formation about 16 to 26 ft. thick. By a rocky bridge, 

 Cerro de Tepeyac is connected with the Cerro Gachupines. Felix 

 and Lenk 2 say of this hill : " An dessen Abhang passirt man zun- 

 acbst zwei, 5 bezw. 8 m. machtige Pechsteinzonen, zwischen und 

 uber welchen der rothlichgraue.kornige Andesit sich ausbreitet, der 

 die Hauptmasse des Berges ausmacht und in einigen Steinbriichen 

 zu industrielleu Zwecken abgebaut wird." 



The ped regal of Tlalpam, or of San Angel is one of the most 

 interesting formations in the valley, covering an area of about 

 7,000 acres. The pedregal is an extinct lava stream situated be- 

 tween the towns of San Angel and Tlalpam, and extending south- 

 ward up the sides of the Sierra del Ajusco to the hill called Chitle. 

 It was formed when the southern mountains were in active volcanic 

 eruption. The eye of the traveller sweeps unobstructedly over an 

 arid black landscape, which might be compared to the sudden stif- 

 fening of the rolling surface of the sea. The country is extremely 

 uneven and rugged ; the coulee of lava is full of cracks, blisters, 



2 1890. Felix and Lenk, Beitrilge zur Geologie und PaUiontologie der 

 Republik Mexico, I, 70. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



caverns and sinks produced during the process of cooling. It is 

 raised into cones, presents most curious sinuosities, and is here and 

 there broken down into rugged jagged protuberances, as sharp and 

 cutting as a knife's edge. This interesting coulee is from 33 to 50 ft. 

 thick over its greatest extent, and from 20 to 26 ft. thick along its 

 borders: Felix and Lenk 3 give a very interesting and true descrip- 

 tion of this lava bed. " Wogenberg erhebt sich neben Wogenthal ; 

 hier ist die Lava glatt und mit einer glanzenden Erstarrungskruste 

 uberzogen, dort ist sie, wie der Gischt der Welle, schaumig und 

 schlackig. Deutlich kann man beobachten, wie die erstarrte Ober- 

 fljiche haufig geborsten ist und auf den weitreichenden Rissen diinn 

 fliissigere Lavamassen emporgequollen sind, die von den klaffenden 

 Spaltenriindern machtige Blocke mitgerissen und nach kurzem 

 Transport zu chaotischen Triimmerhaufen aufgestaut haben. — 

 Ausser kleinen, einst durch die Gasentwicklung in der Lavamasse 

 entstandenen Hohlraumen, welche schliesslich zur kleinheit der 

 Dampfpore herabsinken, finden sich stellenweise in ihr auch gerau- 

 mige mehrere cubikmeter haltende Grotten, welche genetisch wohl 

 als sogenannten ' Schlackensiicke ' zu betrachten sind. Durch spa- 

 teren der Einsturz Decken oder durch die bei Abkiihlungin Folge 

 der eintretenden Contraction aufgerissenen Spalten sind sie zum 

 Theilgeoffnet und bieten zahlreichen Fledermausen Wohnung, dem 

 Reisenden bei einbrechendem Unwetter schiitzendes Obdach." The 

 lava of the Tlalpam pedregal is a typical hypersthene free basalt. 



But that which concerns us mos.t are the plants, which together 

 form a very rich and remarkable flora. Among the causes which 

 favored the development of this peculiar flora may be mentioned 

 the soil temperature, which is warm and uniform, owing to the soil 

 being a basaltic scoria in the protection of which a large number 

 of herbaceous plants flourish ; the direction of the wind, the hu- 

 midity of the atmosphere of this region also favor a rich plant 

 growth. The pedregal is surrounded by high hills, protected thus 

 from the tempestuous winds of the north. Woods of pine, oak and 

 fir clothe the hillsides and serve as an additional protection. In this 

 region are found deep caiiadas, always damp and wet from abund- 

 ant water, which comes from numerous showers and the spray of 

 waterfalls which precipitate themselves from various heights. As a 

 result of these factors, the climate of the pedregal is more temper- 



' 1890. Felix and Lenk, 1. c, 79. 

 25 




378 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



ate and more constant than that of the City of Mexico, or of the 

 Hacienda de Eslava, where a meteorological station has been estab- 

 lished. In consequence of the meteorological conditions, the ped- 

 regal supports a flora made up of many representatives of the tierra 

 fria, tierra templada and tierra caliente. 



The Serrania de las Cruces is a continuation northwestward of 

 the Sierra del Ajusco. It is an elevated region, and by reason of 

 that elevation and exposure to the winds of the north and west pre- 

 sents a very distinct flora. One part of the region, that on the west 

 flanks of the Serrania del Ajusco, is very humid ; the central por- 

 tion is more dry. Large forests of fir, Abies religiosa, once covered 

 the western side, but these are fast disappearing before the axe of 

 Mexican wood choppers. The higher elevations present a charac- 

 teristic alpine flora. Many of the places with an eastern exposure 

 are quite sterile, as to the abundance of plants found in such locali- 

 ties. 



CATALOGUE OF SPECIES FROM THE VALLEY OF MEXICO.* 



A. Lots. City of Mexico. 

 FICOIDEiE. 



1. Sesuvium portulacastrum Linn. Syst. ed X, 1,058; Jacq. Amer., t. 95, Biol. 



Centr. Amer., I, 556. 



North Mexico, South Mexico, Nicaragua. Common on the sea- 

 shores within the tropics. " Verdolaga de Costa," (Cuba). Aug. 12 



(1). 



ONAGRACEiE. 



2. GEnothera rosea [Soland in] Ait. Hort. Kew. ed. I, ii, 3; DC. Prodr., Ill, 51 ; 



Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., I, 454. 



Widely distributed through Mexico, extending into Texas ; also 

 in Colombia and some of the West Indian Islands. Naturalized in 

 tropical Africa, India and the Canary Islands. Aug. 12 (3). 



COMPOSITJE. 



8. Aster Potosinus A. Gray in Proc. Amer. Acad., XV, (1880), 32 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. 

 Bot., II, 122. 



North Mexico, mountains of San Luis Potosi, 6,000 to 8,000 feet 

 (Parry & Palmer, 384). Aug. 12 (4). 



4 The natural orders are arranged according to the Engler and Prantl sys- 

 tem. The species are according to the Index Kewensis with the aid of 

 Hemsley's Biologia Centrali Americana (Botany). See for a description of 

 the ecological plant regions of the Valley of Mexico an article by the writer : 

 " A Botanical Excursion to Mexico." Amer. Journ. Pharm., 68, p. 588, and 

 the translation Una Excursion botanica a Mexico, El Tiempo Diario Catolico, 

 Dec. 4, 1896. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



4. Erigeron scaposus DC, Prodr., V, 287. 



Aster rivularis Lees in Linnsea, V, 143, excl. synon. 



Widely distributed in Mexico. Aug. 12 (2). 

 B. Tlalpam Valley of Mexico. 



SALICACE^J. 



5. Salix Bonplandiana H. B. K., Nov. gen. et Sp., II, 24, tt. 101, 102; DC, Prodr. 



XVI, 2, p. 200. 



A tree found in several recorded districts in South Mexico. Along 

 roads leading from Tlalpam to Lake Xochimilcho, " Sauce " (Mex- 

 ico). Aug. 15 (86). 



NYCTAGINACE.SJ. 



6. Mirabilis Jalapa Linn., Sp. PI., 177 ; Choisy in DC Prodr., XIII, 2, p. 427 ; Lam. 



111., PL, t. 105; Bot. Mag., t. 371. 



Roadsides near Tlalpam. Abundant in other parts of Mexico. 

 " Maravilla " (Cuba) ; " Marvel of Peru " ; " Four o'clock " ; 

 " False Jalap." Aug. 15 (81). 



C ARY OPH YLL ACE JE. 



7. Arenana lanuginosa Rohrb. in Mart. Fl.Bras., XIV, ii, 274; Biol. Centr. Amer. 



Bot., I, 69. 

 Arenaria alsinoidesWi\\&. in Ges. Naturf. Fr. Berl. Mag., VII, (1813) 201. 



Common from North Carolina to Mexico, southward to Peru and 

 Bolivia. Tlalpam, Aug. 22 (215). 



ILLECEBRACE^. 



8. Corrigiola Andina Planch & Triana in Ann. Sc. Nat. Ser., IV, XVII (1862) 146; 



Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., Ill, 11. 



Found in North and South Mexico and Colombia ; Tlalpam, Aug. 

 22 (220). 



RANUNCULACEiE. 



9. Ranunculus orthorhynchus Hook., Fl. Bor. Am., I, 21, t. 9 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. 



Bot., I, 7. 

 Ranunculus dickotomus M09 et Sesse in DC. Syst. Veg. I, 288. 



A widely distributed plant in Mexico. Ditches near Lake Xo- 

 chimilcho, Aug. 15 (80). 



PAPAVERACEiE. 



10. Argemone Mexicana Linn., Sp. PI., 508; Lam. 111., t. 452; Materia Medica 



Mexicana, 153 (plate). 



This is now a common weed in most tropical and sub-tropical 

 countries, flowering from April to October, and abundant in culti- 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



vated fields. Introduced with ballast into Philadelphia. It is used 

 by the bush doctors of the Bahamas according to Dolley 5 for the 

 sraall-pox. " Its seeds have been used elsewhere as a substitute for 

 Ipecacuanha, its juice is said to destroy warts, to be efficacious 

 against the bites of venomous serpents, and to be useful in opthal- 

 mia. 



" El Chicalate " ; " Argemone du Mexique " ; " Adormidera espi- 

 nosa," Chicalotl (Mexico) ; " Cardo Santo " (Antilles, Cuba) ; 

 " Prickly-poppy " ; " Mexican Poppy," " Yellow-thistle," " Fin 

 Bush." Koadsides near Tlalpam, Aug. 15 (82). 



CRUCIFER^J. 



11. Raphanus Raphanistrum Linn., Sp. PI., 669. 



This plant is naturalized in Mexico, and occurs in the collections 

 of many travellers. " Wild Radish." Aug. 20 (185). 



12. Sisymbrium canescens Nutt., Gen. Am., II, 68. 



In North America from Arctic Circle to South Mexico. Tlal- 

 pam, Aug. 22 (221). 



RESEDACE.E. 



13. Reseda Luteola Linn. Sp. PI., 449; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., I, 46. 



Without doubt an introduced plant. Tlalpam, Aug. 20 (186). 



LEGUMINOSJE. 



14. Phaseolus sp. 



Near Tlalpam, Aug. 15 (103). 



15. Trifolium amabile H. B. K. Nov. gen. et sp., VI, 503, t. 593; Biol. Centr. 



Amer. Bot., I, 232. 



Abundant throughout Mexico. The several specimens collected 



in 1896 are questionably referred to this species. Tlalpam, Aug. 



20 (155). 



GERANIACE^J. 



16. Oxalis divergent Benth. PI. Hartw., 9 ; Bot. Reg., t. 1,620; Biol. Centr. Amer. 



Bot., I, 163. 



Collected by various botanists in several parts of Mexico along 

 ditches. Tlalpam, Aug. 20 (178). 



17. Erodium cicutarium L'llerit ex Ait. Hort. Kew. ed. I, ii, 414 ; Leman in DC. 



Fl. Fr., IV, 840 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., I, 161. 



Widely dispersed in the north temperate regions of the Old 

 World, and now exceedingly common in many parts of North Amer- 



5 Dolley, Prov. List Plants of Bahama Islands. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



ica, but supposed to have been originally introduced by the Span- 

 iards. Collected by botanists in several places. Tlalpam fields, 

 Aug. 20 (183). 



ANACARDIACE^l. 



18. Schinus molle Linn. Sp. PI., 3S8 ; Lam. 111., t. 822 ; Biol. Cent. Am. Bot., I, 221. 



Dispersed from country to country by the birds tzenzontles and 

 xilgueros, which eat the fruit and void the seeds. Found in Tropi- 

 cal America to South Brazil, occurring in the Andes at 12,000 to 

 13,000 feet. Supposed to have been introduced by the early Span- 

 iards in order to procure wood in the volcanic district (Christy). 

 Will bear droughts and the intense summer heat of Central Austra- 

 lia better than almost any introduced plant (Von Mueller). The 

 plant, which flowers from March to May in Mexico, occurs in the 

 Valley on the pedregal in saline soils, fertile soils and along the mar- 

 gins of Lake Texcoco. " El Arbol de Peru " ; " Pelonquahuitl " ; 

 "Copalquahuitl" ; "Molle"; " Pimientade America." Roadsides 

 near Tlalpam, Aug. 15 (84). 



MALVACEAE. 



19. Sphaeralcea angustifolia G. Don. Gen. Syst., I, 465 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., 



I, 113. 

 Malva angustifolia Cav. Diss., I, 64, t. 20; Bot. Mag., t. 2,839. 

 Sphaeroma angustifolium Schl. in Linnsea, XI, 353. 



Widely distributed in Mexico according to the collections of botan- 

 ists. Tlalpam, Aug. 20 (181). 



LYTHEACE53. 



20. Cuphea sp. 



Near ditches. Tlalpam, Aug. 15 (85). 



21. Lythrum alatum Pursh. Fl. Am. Sept., I, 334; Biol. Cent. Am. Bot., 1,447. 

 From Canada southward, chiefly in the eastern and southern 



States to South Mexico. Roadsides near Tlalpam, Aug. 15 (87). 



ONAGRACEiE. 



22. (Enothera rosea [Soland. in] Ait. Hort. Kew., ed. I, ii, 3. 



(Repeated). Tlalpam, Aug. 20 (172). 



PRIMULACE.ffiJ. 



23. Anagallis arvensis Linn. Sp. PI., 148; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 289. 



A widely dispersed Old World plant naturalized, and common in 

 some parts of Mexico (Hemsley). Tlalpam, Aug. 22 (no number). 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



POLEMONIACEJE. 



24. Cobaea scandens Cav. Ic, I, 11, t. 16, 17; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot, II, 358; Bot. 



Mag., t. 851 ; Flore des Serres, t. 1,467. 



Walls of gardens. Tlalpam, Aug. 20 (148). 



LABIATE. 



25. Salvia Mexicana Linn. Sp. PL, 25; DC. Prodi-., XII, 337; Biol. Centr. Amer. 



Bot., II, 361 ; Cav. Ic, I, p. 16. t. 26. 



Reported from a number of localities in North and South Mex- 

 ico. Tlalpam, Aug. 22 (222). 



26. Salvia amarissima Orteg. Hort. Matr., Dec. 4; DC. Prodr., XII, 317; Bot. 



Reg., t. 347 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 553. 



Reported from several localities in Mexico. The specimens col- 

 lected in 1896 are doubtfully referred to this species, differing in 

 several respects, notably the rough hairs and long petioles from the 

 plant so named in the herbarium of the Academy of Natural Sci- 

 ences. It may be a variety, which I here propose, as variety petio- 

 laris n. var. Tlalpam, Aug. 22 (223). 



SOLANACE.SI. 



27. Solanum Cervantesii Lag. Gen. et Sp., Nov. 10 ; Biol. Cent. Am. Bot., II, 406. 



North and South Mexico. Roadsides near Tlalpam, Aug. 15 

 (83). 



28. Solarium nigrum L., var. villosum Mill. S. nigrum Linn. Sp. PI., 186 ; Biol. 



Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 412. 



This species is a common weed in nearly all tropical and temper- 

 ate countries, hut it is impossible to determine where it is really in- 

 digenous (Hemsley). Tlalpam (154). 



29. Solanum cornutum Lam. Illustr., II, 25 ; DC. Prodr., XIII, i, 328 ; Jacq. 



Eclog., t. 104; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 407. 



North and South Mexico. Tlalpam, Aug. 20 (180). Asa Gray 

 distinguishes S. cornutum by its simple, non-stellate hairs, otherwise 

 it is much like S. roslratwm from Colorado. 



30. Nicotiana glauoa R. Grah. in Edinb. N. Phil. Journ. (Apr.-June, 1828) 175 ; 



Bot. Mag., t. 2,837 ; DC. Prodr., XIII, i, 562; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 434. 



" This quickly growing arborescent species can be raised on mere 

 sand on the coast, as one of the best plants to establish shelter and 

 stay the shifting of the sand waves. There the poisonous quality of 

 its foliage is not objectionable. It is inadmissible to pastural places 

 on account of its deleteriousness " (Von Mueller). North and 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 383 



South Mexico, Valley of Mexico. Roadsides near Tlalpam and 

 growing on walls and roofs of adobe houses. 



PLANTAGINACEJE. 



31. Plantago Mrtella H. B. K. Nov. Gen. et Sp., II, 229, te 127 ; A. Gray, Synop. 



PI. N. Am., II, 392 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 575. 



California, Mexico, Chili. Tlalpam, Aug. 20 (153). 



COMPOSITE. 



32. Eupatorium sp. 



Tlalpam, Valley of Mexico, Aug. 20 (179). 



33. Heterotheca Lamarckii Cass, in Diet. Sc. Nat., XXI, 130 ; DC. Prodr., V, 317; 



S. Wats., Proc. Am. Acad., XVIII, 102; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot,, IV, 52. 



South Carolina, westward and southward, North Mexico, Monte- 

 rey, Nuevo Leon. Tlalpam, Aug. 20 (182). 



34. Heterospermum pinnatum Cav. Ic, III, 34, t. 267 ; Willd., Sp. PI., Ill, 2,129; 



Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 195. 



North and South Mexico, collected by a number of botanists. 

 Tlalpam, Aug. 20 (219). 



35. Schkuhria virgata DC. Prodr., V, 654; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 212. 



North Mexico, region of San Luis Potosi, 6,000 to 8,000 feet (Parry 

 & Palmer) ; South Mexico, Guanajuato (Mendez) ; near Tacubaya 

 (Schaffner) ; Chapultepec (Bilimek) ; Guatemala. Tlalpam, Aug. 

 22 (214). 



C. Lake Xoehimilcho, Valley of Mexico. 



MARSILIACEiE. 



36. Marsilia heterophylla 1 



Ditches near Xoehimilcho, Aug. 15 (78). 



ALISMACJE. 



37. Sagittaria sagittifolia Linn. var. Mexicana, Mart, et Gal. 



S. sagittifolia Linn., Sp. PI., 993; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., Ill, 439; var. 

 Mexicana Mart, et Gal. in Bull. Acad. Brux., IX, 8; Micheli in DC. 

 Monogr. Phanerog., Ill, 66. 



Lake Xochimilclio on wet chinampas, Aug. 15 (92). 



CYPERACEJE. 



38. Cyperus unioloides R. Br. Prodr. Fi. N. Hall., 216 ; Clarke in Journ. Linn. Soc., 



XXI, 61. 



Cyperus brompides Willd. ex Link, III, 85 ; Kunth. Enum. PI. II, 8. 



Found in South Mexico, Guatemala, Venezuela and Paraguay. 

 Other varieties of this species are found in India, Australia and 

 South Africa. Lake Xoehimilcho on chinampas, Aug. 15 (93). 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



ERIOCAULOlSrE^J. 



39. Eriocaulon Benthami Kunth Enum., PI. Ill, 545 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., 



III, 443 ; Koern in Mart. Fl. Bras., Ill, 490. 



Recorded from South Mexico and Guatemala. Lake Xochimil- 

 cho on chinampas, Aug. 15 (97). 



PONTEDERIACE^. 



40. Eichornia azurea Kunth Enum., PI. IV, 129 ; Solms in DC. Monogr. Phanerog., 



IV, 528 ; Abhandl. Naturf. Gesell., Halle, VI, 177, cum icon.; But. Mag., t. 6,487. 



Pontederia azurea Swartz, Fl. Ind. occ. , I, 609. 



Common over Tropical and Extra-tropical South America and 

 the West Indies. Closely similar to the water hyacinth Piaropus 

 (Pontederia, Eichornia) speciosa Kunth, a native of South Amer- 

 ica. Whether this plant is indigenous to the canals and lakes of 

 the Valley of Mexico is a question ; at any rate it is very abundant 

 in many of the ditches in the City of Mexico, and is also found 

 abundantly floating about in Lake Xochimilcho. The related 

 Water Hyacinth is extremely troublesome to navigation in the riv- 

 ers of Florida. 6 



Lake Xochimilcho, Aug. 15 (88). 



POLYGONACEJE. 



41. Polygonum amphibium Linn., Sp. PL, 361; DC. Prodr., XIV, 115; A. Gr., 



Man. Bot. ed. 5, 416; Fl. Dan., t. 282. 



A very widely dispersed species in the temperate and subtropical 

 regions of the N. Hemisphere. Lake Xochimilcho on the edge of 

 the chinampas, Aug. 15 (91). 



NYMPHAEACEJE. 



42. Nympbsea Mexicana Zucc. in Abb. Akad. Muencb., I, (1832), 365 ; Flora (1832) 



II ; Beibl, 75 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., I, 26. 



The flowers of this plant are straw-yellow. Lake Xochimilcho, 

 Aug. 15 (100). 



43. Nymphaea tussilagifolia Lebm., Ind. Sem. Hort. Hamb. (1853), 10; Ann. Sc. 



Nat., ser. 4, Vol. I, 326. 



Collected by Lehman in Lake Chalco near Yotla, also found in 

 the Amazon. The flowers of this handsome water lily are white. 

 Lake Xochimilcho, Aug. 15 (101). 



6 See the Water Hyacinth and its Kelation to Navigation in Florida, Bull. 

 18, Div. of Bot. U. S. Dept. Agric, H. J. Webber. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 385 



RANUNCULACEJE. 



44. Ranunculus Cymbalaria Pursh. Fl. Am. Sept., II, 392 ; DC. Syst. I, 252 ; 



Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., I, 16. 



Distributed from Canada to the Argentine Republic, also in 

 Northern Asia and Europe. Ditches near Lake Xochimilcho, 

 Aug. 15 (79). 



SCROPHULARIACE.aj. 



45. Escobedea (linearis) laevis Cham & Schlecht in Linm-ea, V, (1S30), 108; DC. 



Prodr., X, p. 337 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 456, also plate. 



Recorded from a number of localities in South Mexico. Lake 

 Xochimilcho on the chinampas. Flowers white. Aug. 15 (90). 



LOBELIACE^l. 



46. Lobelia fulgens Willd. Hort. Berol., t. 85 ; DC. Prodr., VII, 382; Biol. Centr. 



Amer. Bot.. 11,267. 



Lobelia splendent Willd., Hort. Berol., t. 86 ; A. Gr., Synop. Fl. N. Am. II, 

 3; Bot. Mag., t. 4,9K0 (var. ignea). 



From Texas to Panama throughout Mexico. Lake Xochimilcho 

 on chinampas, Aug. 15 (89). 



COMPOSITE. 



47. Solidago pamculata DC. Prodr., V, 340 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 116. 

 S. Mexicana H. B. K., Nov. Gen. et. Sp., IV, 104? 



Lake Xochimilcho on chinampas, Aug. 15 (95). 



48. Cnicus linearifolius Watson. 



Lake Xochimilcho on chinampas, Aug. 15 (99). 



49. Bidens chrysanthemoides Michx. Fl. Bor. Am., II, 136; Torr. & Gr., Fl. N. 



Am., II, 352; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 201. 



Common from Canada throughout the United States east of the 

 Rocky Mountains and in Arizona, California and North Mexico. 

 Lake Xochimilcho on chinampas, Aug. 15 (102). 



D. Cerro de Guadalupe, Valley of Mexico. 



LILIACEJE. 



50. Milla biflora Cav. Ic, II, 76, t. 196; S. Watson, Proc. Am. Acad., XIV, 240, 



et XVIII, 165; Bot. Reg.,t. 1,555. 



Found in New Mexico, South Arizona, North and South Mexico. 

 Cerro de Guadalupe growing on exposed rocky faces of the hill in 

 small soil pockets, Aug. 18 (108). 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



PORTULACACEiE. 



51. Talinum aurantiacum Engelm. in Bost. Jour. Nat. Hist., VI, (1850), 153 ; Biol. 



Centr. Amer. Bot., I, 78. 



Texas and New Mexico to North and South Mexico in sandy 

 places. Cerro de Guadalupe on rock faces, 7 Aug. 18 (106). 



52. Talinum patens Wilkl. Sp. PI., II, 863 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., I, 79. 

 North and South Mexico, also in South America, West Indies 



aud some of the Pacific Islands. Cerro de Guadalupe on rock 

 faces, Aug. 18 (109). 



GERANIACEiE. 



53. Oxalis decaphylla H. B. & K. Gen. et Sp., V, 238, t. 468; Biol. Centr. Amer. 



Bot., I, 163. 



Texas to North Mexico to South Mexico. This oxalid shows 

 great senstivity to light, in that its leaves assume the hot sun posi- 

 tion in the same manner in which they show nyctitropic, or sleep 

 movements. Each of the ten leaflets arranged at the end of the com- 

 mon petiole in a circular manner, first fold the two halves on each 

 side of the midrib back to back, and then they all fold down to- 

 gether like the closing of an umbrella. Cerro de Guadalupe, Aug. 

 18 (107). 



CACTACE.5J. 



54. Mammillaria strobiliformis Scheer ex Salm. Dyck. Cact. Hort. Dyck., ed. II, 



104; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., I, 524. 



Collected by Potts in Chihuahua. I refer the plant collected by 

 me doubtfully to this species. Cerro de Guadalupe, Aug. 18. 



BIGNONIACE^. 



55. Tecoma mollis H. B.K. Nov. Gen. et. Sp., Ill, 144; DC. Prodr., IX, 224; Biol. 



Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 496. 



North and South Mexico. Cerro de Guadalupe, Aug. 18. 

 E. Pedregal near Tlalpam. Valley of Mexico. 



6. Selaginella lepidophylla Sering. Monogr. Lycopod. II, 72 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. 

 Bot., Ill, 707. 



Texas through Mexico, southward to Peru. One of the so-called 

 resurrection plants. In normal grown condition, the leaves and 



7 See An Ecological Study of the Genus Talinum with Descriptions of Two 

 Species, Bull. Torrey Botan. Club, XXIV, p. 182, Apr., 1897, J. W. Harsh- 

 berger. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



branches are outspread, and the plant becomes mortar-shaped ; when 



dry it rolls up and may preserve this form for years. If again 



wetted it unrolls. 



Abundant on faces and sides of the lava. Pedregal near Tlalpam, 



Aug. 20 (190). 



FILIOES. 



57. Polypodium sp. 



Pedregal near Tlalpam, Aug. 20 (164). 



5G. Notholaena ferruginea Desv. Hook, Sp. Fil. V, 108 ; Eaton Ferns N. Am., I, 

 297 t. 39, figs. 7-10 ; Biol. Centr. Anier. Bot., Ill, 673. 



Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, North and South Mexico, West 

 Indies and Colombia to Chili. 



Bare faces of rocks, pedregal, Aug. 22 (208). 



59. Cheilanthes myriophylla Desv. Hook, Sp. Fil., II, 100, t. 105 A ; Biol. Centr. 



Amer., Ill, 616. 



North and South Mexico reported from several localities and the 

 pedregal by Bourgeau ; in Peru and Chili. 

 Bare rocks, pedregal, Aug. 22 (207). 



GRAMHSTE-ffi. 



60. Bouteloua prostrata Lag. in Varied. Cienc, ii, IV (1805) 141; Gen. et. Sp. 



Nov. 5th; S.Wats, in Proc. Am. Acad., XVIII, 176; Biol. Cent. Am. Bot., 

 Ill, 562. 



" This annual grass is widely distributed from Mexico to Colo- 

 rado, prevailing in bottom land, where it frequently mats the ground 

 but does not seem to be relished by cattle " (Vasey). 



North and South Mexico, Colombia and Ecuador. Pedregal, 

 Aug. 20 (156). 



61. Microchloa setacea R. Brown, Prodr., I, 208; S. Wats., Proc. Amer. Acad., 



XVIII, 176 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., Ill, 557. 



Reported from North Mexico southward to Bolivia and Brazil. 

 Also in North Australia, tropical Africa and Asia. 

 Hills near Tlalpam, pedregal, Aug. 22 (204). 



CYPERACEJE. 



62. Cyperus seslerioides H. B. K. Nov. Gen. et Sp. I, 209 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., 



Ill, 451. 



Reported in North and South Mexico, also on the Orinoco. 

 Pedregal, Aug. 22 (196). 



COMMELINACEJE. 



63. Commelina scabra Benth. PI. Hartw., 26; C. B. Clarke in DC. Monogr. Phane- 



rog., Ill, 153 Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., Ill, 389. 



South Mexico in several places. Pedregal, Aug. 22 (218). 




388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



LILIACEJE. 



64. Milla biflora Cav. Ic, II, 76 t. 196. 

 Pedregal, Aug. 20 (repeated). 



65. Calochortus fiavus Schult. f. Syst., VII, 1535 ; Biol. Cent. Am. Bot., Ill, 380. 

 Reported in both North and South Mexico. The flowers have 



large nectar glands on the petals guarded by hairs. 

 Pedregal, Aug. 20 (161). 



ORCHIDACEJE. 



66. Habenaria filifera Wats. 



Collected by Mexican botanists on Sierra de Ajusco at Eslava, 

 8,000 feet. Pedregal, Aug. 22. 



CUPULIFER.EJ. 



67. Quercus undulata Torr. var. grisea Engelm. Q. undulata in Ann. Lye. N. York, 



II, (1828) 248, t. 4. 



A low-growing, scrubby tree, used for fire-wood. Pedregal, Aug. 



22 (195). 



PORTULACACEJE. 



68. Talinum napiforme DC. (Char, amplif.) Henisley, Diag. PI. Nov. pars altera., 



23 ; DC. Prodr., Ill, 357 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., I, 79 ; Bull. Torrey Bot. 

 Club, XXIV, 183, t. 299. 



Described from drawing made by DC. of the species. Pedregal, 

 Aug. 20 (166). 



CARYOPHYLLACE^J. 



69. Drymaria gracilis Cham. & Schlecht. in Linnaea, V (1830) 232; Biol. Centr. 



Amer. Bot., I, 73, 



South Mexico. Pedregal, Aug. 22 (199). 



EANUNCULACE51. 



70. Clematis dioica Linn. Syst. ed. X, 1084; Sloane, Hist. Jam., I, 199, 1. 128, fig. 



1 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., I, 2. 



Recorded in several places in South Mexico, also found in Brazil, 

 Colombia and West Indies, "Cabello de Angel" (Cuba). 

 Pedregal, Aug. 20 (162). 



LEGUMINOS^!. 



71. Phaseolus sp. 



Pedregal near Tlalpam, Aug. 20th (187). 



72. Zornia diphylla Pers. Syn., II, 318; Benth in Mart. Fl. Bras., XV, 80 tt., 21, 



22 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., I, 273. 



A very variable plant, common in most tropical and subtropical 

 regions throughout the world, and occurring in nearly all collections 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



from Panama, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Guatemala and Mexico. The 

 two leaflets usually assume the bot sun position standing up verti- 

 cally back to back. When the plant is in flower, these serve to en- 

 close the blossom. 



Pedregal on exposed lava in rosettes, Aug. 20 (167). 



73. Eysenhardtia amorphoides H. B. & K. Nov. Gen. et Sp., VI, 489 t. 592. 

 From New Mexico, Texas, through North to South Mexico. 



" Palo dulce bianco ; " " Coatle." Used as a succedaneum for san- 

 dal-wood. Pedregal, Aug. 22 (1 97). 



74. Crotalaria pumila Orteg. Hort. Matr., 23 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., I, 228. 



From New Mexico to South Mexico. Pedregal, Aug. 22 (217). 



75. Phaseolus sp. 

 Pedregal, Aug. 22 (212). 



EUPHORBIACE.SJ. 



76. Acalypha phleoides Cav. in Anal. Hist. Nat. Madr., II (1800) 139 ; Biol. Centr. 



Amer. Bot., Ill, 127. 



Abundant in two varieties through Mexico, The plant collected 

 in 1896 in the Valley of Mexico is doubtfully referred to this spe- 

 cies. Pedregal, Aug. 22 (203). 



77. Euphorbia adenoptera Bertol. Misc. Bot., Ill, 20, t. 23 ; DC. Prod., XV, 2, 49. 

 Distributed from Florida, Texas, New Mexico to South Mexico, 



West Indies and South America. Doubtfully referred by me to 

 this species. Pedregal, Aug. 22 (202). 



SAPINDACEJE. 



78. Cardiospermum Halicacabum Linn. Sp. PI. 366; Biol. Cent. Am. Bot., I, 209. 

 A very common plant in tropical and subtropical regions of both 



hemispheres. It was difficult for me to distinguish my plant from 

 C. molle, which it closely resembles. North and South Mexico. 

 Pedregal, Aug. 20, climbing over other plants (159). 



MALVACEAE. 



79. Malvastrum Peruvianum A. Gray. Bot. U. S. Explor. Exped., I, 146; Biol. 



Centr. Amer. Bot., I, 99. 



Pedregal, Aug. 22 (224). 



CAOTACEiB. 



80. Cereus serpentinus DC. Prodr. Ill, 467 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., 546 ; Bot. 



Mag., t. 35,66. 



South Mexico, used occasionally for forming hedges. Pedregal, 

 Aug. 22. 




390 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



UMBELLIFER.EJ. 



81. Eryngium comosum Delar. Eryng. 30, t. 7 ; Biol. Centr. Arner. Bot. I, 560. 



Recorded from a number of stations in South Mexico. Pedregal, 



Aug. 22 (211). 



ASCLEPIADAOEJE. 



82. Asolepias neglecta Hemsley. Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 325. 



Recorded from South Mexico by a number of botanists. The 

 specimens collected in 1896 doubtfully referred to this species. 

 Hills above Tlalpam portion of pedregal, Aug. 22 (194). 



83. Aselepias Linaria Cav. Ic, I, 42, t. 57 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 324 ; DC. 



Prodr., VIII, 570. 



North and South Mexico. Pedregal, Aug. 20 (165). 



84. Philibertia elegans Hemsl. Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 318. / 

 Recorded from a number of localities in South Mexico. A climb- 

 ing or trailing plant. Pedregal, Aug. 20 (188). 



PLUMBAGINACEJE. 



85. Plumbago pulchella Boiss. in DC. Prodr., XII, 692 ; Biol. Cent. Am. Bot., II, 287. 



From North to South Mexico. Used by the Mexican Indians to 

 raise blisters, cure toothache and the running of the eyes (Materia 

 Medica Mexicana, p. 79, fig.) "El Paiiete" ; " Jiricua " ; " Tlepatli" ; 

 " Yerba del alacran"; " Cola depescado " ; " Cola de iguana" ; 

 " Yerba lumbre." Pedregal, Aug. 22 (213). 



CONVOLVULACEJE. 



86. Ipomoea longipedunculata Hemsl. Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 389. 



Pedregal, Aug. 20 (175). 



VERBENACEJE. 



87. Priva tuberosa S. Wats, in Proc. Amer. Acad., XVIII (1883) 135. 



Pedregal near Tlalpam, Aug. 22 (198). 



LABIATE. 



88. Mentha rotundifolia Huds. Fl. Angl. ed. I, 221 ; Biol. Cent. Am. Bot., II, 546. 



Naturalized in some parts of Mexico. Found also in Europe, 

 Asia, and Northern Africa. Pedregal, Aug. 22 (221a). 



SOLANACEJE. 



89. Nectouxia formosa H. B. & K. Nov. Gen. et Sp., Ill, 10, t. 193; Biol. Centr. 



Amer. Bot., II, 425. 



This herbaceous monotype has been collected in a number of 

 places in Mexico. The fruit is eaten. Pedregal, Aug. 20. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



90. Solanum bulbooastanum Dun. in Poir Encyc. Suppl., Ill, 749 ; Biol. Centr. 



Amer. Bot., II, 405. 



Pedregal, Aug. 22 (209). 



SCROPHTJLARIACE.aS. 



91. Pedicuiaris Mexicana Zucc. ex Bunge in Bull. Phys. Math. Acad. Petersb., I, 



(1843) 384; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 467. 



Pedregal, Aug. 20 (184). 



92. Lamourouxia rhinanthifolia H. B. & K, Nov. Gen. et Sp., II, 337, t. 169 ; 



Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 466. 



Collected in quite a number of places through Mexico. Pedre- 

 gal, Aug. 22 (193). 



ACANTHACE^J. 



93. Calophanes decumbens A. Gr. Syn. Fl. N. Am., II, i, 325 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. 



Bot. II, 502. 



From Texas, Arizona to the Valley of Mexico. Pedregal, Aug. 

 22 (200). 



94. Ruellia sp. 



On hills above pedregal near Tlalpam, Aug. 22 (205). 



COMPOSITE. 



95. Tagetes lucifer Cav. Ic, III, 33, t. 264; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 222; DC. 



Prodr. V, 643 ; Bot. Mag., t. 740. 



Extending from Texas through North to South Mexico. Col- 

 lected by Bourgeau in pedregal. " Pericon." pedregal, Aug. 20 

 (192). 



96. Dahlia coccinea Cav. Ic, III, 33, t. 266 ; Bot. Mag., t. 762 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. 



Bot., II, 196. 



Collected by Bourgeau in the Valley of Mexico. This plant has 

 a northerly and extensive distribution. " From the Cordilleras of 

 Chihuahua, within 200 miles of the United States boundary, it 

 ranges southward through the mountains to Jalisco and the Valley 

 of Mexico. It shows a remarkable variation in color from cardinal 

 of several shades, through scarlet, scarlet-orange, mandarin, orange, 

 lemon-yellow, yellow. The so-called scarlet-orange rays are scarlet 

 with lines of yellow running through, so that the strap-shaped 

 corolla has a somewhat banded appearance. The ligulate corolla is 

 about an inch long and half an inch broad. The entire head varies 

 in size from two inches in the cardinal ones to three inches in the 

 scarlet-orange." (See my article " The Native Dahlias of Mexico," 

 Science n. s. VI, 909, Dec. 17, 1897). 



Pedregal near Tlalpam, Aug. 20 (160). 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



97. Zinnia pauciflora Linn. Sp. PL ed. II, 1,269 ; Lam. 111., t. 685, f. 1 ; Biol. Centr. 



Amer. Bot., II, 154; Ainer. Acad. Arts & Sci., XXXII, 19. 



Mexico, Andes of Peru, Bolivia, St. Thomas, W. I., and intro- 

 duced into W. Africa and Cape Verde Islands. Pedregal, Aug. 20 

 (157). 



98. Zexmenia aurea Benth & Hook, f. Gen., II, 371, in nota sub Wedelia; Biol. 



Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 172. 



Pedregal, Aug. 22 (191). 



99. Tagetes micrantha Cav. Ic, IV, 31, t. 352; DC. Prodr., V, 646; Biol. Centr. 



Amer. Bot., II, 222. 



Recorded by a number of botanists from Arizona and Texas 

 southward to Costa Rica. Pedregal, Aug. 22 (201). 



100. Pectis prostrata Cav. Ic., IV, 12, t. 324; DC, Prodr., V, 100; Biol. Centr. 



Amer. Bot., II, 226. 



Collected in Florida, New Mexico, Mexico, Colombia and the 

 AVest Indies (Cuba). " Romero macho " (Cuba) ; Pedregal, Aug. 

 22 (210). 



101. Stevia Eupatoria Willd. Sp. PL, III, 1,775; Bot. Mag., t. 1,849; Biol. Centr. 



Amer. Bot., II, 86. 



The specimens resemble Stevia linoides Schult. Bip., although the 

 inflorescence is flatter and more compact. The plant is, therefore, 

 doubtfully referred to the above named species ; North and South 

 Mexico. Pedregal, Aug. 22 (206). 



101b. Senecio praecox DC, Prodr., VI, 431. 



Senecio praecox is a composite plant inhabiting the volcanic beds 

 in the Valley of Mexico. It has a cylindrical stem rising three or 

 four feet from the ground with clustered, deeply lobed leaves at the 

 top. The plant stores up an abundant supply of water in the pith, 

 which is gradually used up during the dry season in Mexico, which 

 lasts from October to June. The flowers develop in April at the 

 expense of the reserved supply of water. Loss of water during the 

 dry season is prevented by the fall of the leaves, and by the protec- 

 tive cork and balsam secreted in the exo- and endocortex. The 

 water stored in the turgid discs of pith is gradually conducted by 

 the woody cells and tracheids, which penetrate into the medulla by 

 wedge shaped ingrowths, representing the primary bundles, to the 

 growing point where it is used. That this is the case, is shown by 

 the dry parchment-like pith membranes, which were left in a piece 

 of a stem which had remained in the dry state for over sixteen 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



months. Conduction of water in this stem was accomplished with- 

 out the aid of root pressure, without any appreciable influence on 

 the part of the small green leaves in drawing up the liquid by the 

 pumping action of transpiration. 8 

 Pedregal near Tlalpam, Aug. 22. 



F. Pedregal near Tizapan, Valley of Mexico. 



Tizapan is a suburban village of the City of Mexico, much higher 



in elevation above the floor of the valley than Tlalpam, which lies 



to the northwest of Tlalpam. The pedregal near Tizapan presents 



the same rugged characters as elsewhere. Along its edge, here, 



runs the small stream known as Rio Cherubusco. The region 



shows the same profusion of flowering plants as elsewhere in the 



pedregal. 



TILICES. 



102. Pellaea gracilis. 



Pedregal, 7,500-8000 feet, Aug. 25 (334). 



COMMELINACE^l. 



103. Tradescantia crassifolia Cav. Ic, I, 54, t. 75 ; Bot. Mag., t. 1,598 ; Biol. 



Centr. Amer. Bot., Ill, 391. 



North and South Mexico, pedregal (Bourgeau). Pedregal, 7,500 

 -8000 feet, Aug. 25 (227). 



DIOSCOREACEjE. 



104. Diosoorea sp. 



Pedregal, 7,500-7,800 feet, Aug. 25 (440). 



PORTULACACE^l. 



105. Calandrinia grandifiora Lindl. Bot. Beg., t. 1,194. 

 Pedregal, 7,500-7,800 feet, Aug. 25 (337). 



LEGUMINOSJE. 



106. Eysenhardtia amorphoides H. B. & K. Nov. Gen. et. Sp., VI, 489. 

 Pedregal, 7,500-7,800 feet, Aug. 25. 



107. Zornia diphylla Pers. Syn., II, 318. 

 Pedregal, 7,500-7,800 feet, Aug. 25. 



108. Cassia sp. 



Pedregal, 7,500-7,800 feet, Aug. 25. 



8 See abstract of paper Water Storage and Conduction in Senecio praecox 

 from Mexico, read at Soc. Botanical Physiologists and Morphologists at Cor- 

 nell University, in Bot. Gaz., Feb., 1898, p. 116, also Science, n. s., vii, p. 120. 



26 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



109. Indigofera sp. 



Pedregal, 7,500-7,800 feet, Aug. 25. 



SAPINDACE^S. 



110. Dodonsea viscosa Jacq. Enum. PI. Carib., 19; Linn. Mant., 228; Biol. Centr. 



Amer. Bot., I, 215. 



Collected by Dr. Jose Ramirez on the pedregal at Eslava. A 

 plant found in nearly all tropical, sub-tropical and south temperate 

 regions throughout the world, and very common in Central America 

 and Mexico. I doubtfully refer the plant collected to this species. 



" Chapulistle ; " " Limonillo." Pedregal, Aug. 25 (276). 



SOLANACEJE. 



111. Solanum nigrum Linn. Sp. PI., 186; DC. Prodr., XIII, i, 50; Biol. Centr. 



Amer. Bot,, II, 412. 



A common weed in nearly all tropical and temperate countries ; 

 but it is impossible to determine where it is really indigenous. Col- 

 lected by Dr. Jose Ramirez at Eslava 8,725 feet. Tizapan ped- 

 regal, Aug. 25. 



COMPOSITiE. 



112. Dahlia cocoinea Cav. Ic, III, 33, t. 266. 



Tizapan pedregal, 7,500-7,800 feet (228 a. See ante). 



G. Contreras. 



Contreras is a station on the Mexico, Cuernavaca and Pacific 

 Railroad 17.5 miles from the City of Mexico. The following plants 

 were collected while the train stopped. 



PHYTOLACCACEJE. 



113. Phytolacca octandra Linn. Sp. PI., ed. II, 631; DC. Prodr., XIII, ii, 32; 



Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., Ill, 30. 



South Mexico and southward to Peru and Uruguay, and in the 

 West Indies. Aug. 18 (114). 



SOLANACEJE. 



114. Physalis pubescens Linn. Sp. PL, 183; Griseb. Fl. Br. W. Ind., 435; Biol. 



Centr. Amer., Ill, 420. 



Generally dispersed in tropical America, Aug. 18 (113). 



H. Eslava. 



The Hacienda of Eslava and the village of that name are dis- 

 tant from the City of Mexico 19 miles. The pedregal, which 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



here reaches its northern limit, is elevated 2,500-3,500 metres 

 (8,000-11,800 feet). The flora presents a greater richness than lower 

 down, the region being protected from the cold winds, which blow 

 over the valley, by the forests of oak and pine and by the high hills 

 to the west and north. It is, therefore, warmer. 



CONIFERS. 



115. Pinus leiophylla Schlecht & Cham, in Linnsea, VI, (1832), 354; Biol. Centr. 



Amer. Bot., , III 187. 



Collected by a number of botanists in different parts of Mexico. 

 Peak of Orizaba, 7-9,000 feet (Linden) ; Pedregal and Canada de 

 Tizapan (Christy). Called "Pino;" "Ocotechino" by the Mexi- 

 cans. Eslava pedregal 8-10,000 feet, Aug. 31 (396). 



AMARYLLIDACE.ffi. 



116. Agave megalacantha Hemsl. Diag. PI. Nov. Mex., 3, 55 ; Tab. LXXXVIII, A. 

 Eslava pedregal, 9,000 feet, Aug. 31 (400). (Collected by 



Bourgeau here). 



CUPULIFERJE. 



117. Quercus reticulata Humb. Bonpl. Fl. ^Equin., II, 40, t. 86; Biol. Centr. Amer. 



Bot., Ill, 176. 



Collected in several parts of South Mexico. Peak of Orizaba, 

 8,000 to 10,000 feet (Liebmann) ; San Angel (Bourgeau), etc.; Es- 

 lava pedregal, 8-10,000 feet, Aug. 31 (394). 



LEGUMINOSJE. 



118. Lupinus sylvaticus Hemsl. Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., I, 231. 



North and South Mexico, Valley of Mexico, Desierto Viejo (Bour- 

 geau). Eslava pedregal, 9,000 feet, Aug. 31. 



RHAMNACEJE. 



119. Ceanothus azureus Desf. Tabl. ed. II, 232; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., I, 199 ; 



Bot. Beg., t. 291. 



Recorded from a number of localities in Mexico, and collected by 

 Dr. Jose Ramirez at Eslava, 8,830 feet ; a very ornamental plant 

 in flower. " Sayolistle ; " " Cuaicuastle." Eslava pedregal, 10,000 

 feet, Aug. 31 (393). 



OROBANCHACE^J. 



120. Conopholis Mexicana A. Gray ex S. Wats, in Proc. Amer. Acad., XVIII, 

 (1882-83), 131. 



Really not distinct from C. Americana Wallr., which ranges from 

 New England to Michigan and Florida. Eslava pedregal, 9.000 

 feet ; parasitic on roots of oak. Aug. 31. 




396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



RUBIACEiE. 



121. Crusea br achyphy 11a Cham. & Schlecht in Linnaea, V, (1830), L65; Biol. Centr. 



Amer. Bot., II, 57. 



South Mexico, peak of Orizaba at 7,000 feet ; Eslava pedregal, 

 8-10,000 feet, Aug. 31 (399). 



COMPOSITE. 



122. Dahlia Merckii Lehm. Delect. Sem. Hort. Hamb. (1839), ex Linnaja, XIV, 



(1840) 130; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 197. 



North Mexico, region of San Luis Potosi, 6,000 to 8,000 feet (Parry 

 & Palmer) ; South Mexico, Real de Monte (Coulter), summit of a 

 mountain near Guadalupe (Bourgeau). This dahlia is one of the 

 showy species ; the color of its flowers runs from purple to pure 

 white through the gradual fading out of the purple color. One 

 most commonly sees in a state of nature the white heads, which are 

 tinted with lavender or pale purple at the base of the ray floret. 

 The heads in each case are nearly uniform in size, being about an 

 inch and three-fourths across. (See an article of mine, " The Na- 

 tive Dahlias of Mexico," Science n. s., VI, 910, Dec. 17, 1897). 



Eslava pedregal, Aug. 31 ; 10,000 feet. 



123. Dahlia coccinea Cav. Ic, III, 33, t. 266. 



Eslava pedregal, 10,000 feet, Aug. 31 ; (see ante). 



124. Dahlia variabilis Desf. Cat. Hort. Par., ed. Ill, 182. 



This dahlia is confined to the region around, including the Val- 

 ley of Mexico. It is a most striking plant, growing from 5 to 6 feet 

 tall, and bearing flowers ranging in color from purple to sulphur- 

 yellow through the following gradations: lavender-purple, helio- 

 trope, heliotrope-yellow (various shades of lighter and lighter hue 

 approaching yellow), sulphur-yellow. The heads in which the ray 

 florets are colored heliotrope-yellow, are in reality of an heliotrope 

 color, the bases of the ligulate corolla being of a yellow color, shad- 

 ing off into heliotrope. They are broad (1 inch), long (2 inches) 

 and ovate spatulate. See " The Native Dahlias of Mexico," (Science 

 n. s., VI, 909, Dec. 17, 1897). 



Eslava pedregal, 10,000 feet, Aug. 31 (390). 



125. Cosmos sp. 



Eslava pedregal, 9,000 feet, Aug. 31 (384). 



126. Stevia nudiflora. 



Eslava pedregal, 9,000 feet, Aug. 31 (385). 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 397 



127. Stevia sp. 



Eslava pedregal, 9,000 feet, Aug. 31 (386). 



I. La Cima. Summit of Sierra del Ajusco. 



La Cima is an Indian town 38 miles from the city of Mexico 

 on the crest or summit of the Sierra del Ajusco at about 11,000 

 feet above sea level. It is, therefore, about 2,000 feet lower than 

 the Cerro Grande del Ajusco, or volcanic cone (13,612 feet). It 

 was from this extinct crater, that the great pedregal of Tlalpam 

 and many of the smaller pedregals were formed by lava flows in 

 prehistoric times. The pedregal of La Cima is lower than the town, 

 which consists of a few adobe huts. It presents the same rugged 

 features, as those of the great lava bed between San Angel and Tlal- 

 pam, which has been already fully described. Most of the plants 

 mentioned in the accompanying list are from the hill overlooking 

 and directly above the town on the east side of the railroad. The 

 soil of this hill is of a rich black character and is marked by many 

 foot paths running in every direction. 



CONIFERS. 



128. Juniperus tetragona Sehlecht in Linnaea, XII (1838) 495 ; DC. Prodr., XVI, 



ii, 491; Biol. Centr. Anier. Bot., Ill, 184. 



Reported from North Mexico in the Sierra Madre to South 

 Mexico and ascending on the peak of Orizaba to the limits of vegeta- 

 tion 12,000 to 14,000 feet. Pedregal, La Cima, Sierra del Ajusco, 

 11,000 feet, Aug. 18 (125). 



129. Pinus Montezumae Lamb. Gen. Pin. ed., I, iii, 149, t. 64; Biol. Centr. Amer. 



Bot., Ill, 1SS. 



A plant of many synonyms ; it stretches from North to South 

 Mexico, extending to timber line on Orizaba, Popocatepetl and 

 Iztaccihuatl, 10-14,000 feet. La Cima, Sierra del Ajusco, 11,000 

 feet, Aug. 18 (126). 



LILIACEJE. 



130. Stenanthium frigidura Kunth. Enum., PI. IV, 189 (1843); Biol. Centr. Amer. 



Bot., Ill, 381 ; Baker in Journ. Linn. Soc, XVII, 484. 



South Mexico, peak of Orizaba 9,000 to 12,500 feet (Linden); 

 Anganguio, 9,000 feet (Hartweg). Pedregal, La Cima, 10,000 feet, 

 Aug. 18 (132). 



131. Anthericum sp. 



Sierra del Ajusco. A plant with fascicled roots for storage of 

 food, an inch, or two long. Aug. 18 (143). 




398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



IRIDACE.aJ. 



132. Sisyrinchium Schaffneri S. Wats, in Proc. Amer. Acad., XVIII, (1883) 160. 

 Sierra del Ajusco, Aug. 18 (144). 



ORCHIDACE.EJ. 



133. Microstylis tenuis Wats. 



La Cima, ped regal, Aug. 18 (117 specimen lost). 



134. Spiranthes aurantiaca Hemsl. Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., Ill, 300. 



Reported from several stations in South Mexico. The specimens 

 here were collected by Mr. John MacGlashen assistant to Mr. 

 Pringle. La Cima, pedregal, Sierra del Ajusco, Aug. 18 (116). 



PIPERACEJE. 



135. Peperomia umbilicata Ruiz and Pav. FI. Per., I, 30, t. 45, f. b. ; Biol. Centr. 



Amer. Bot., Ill, 66. 



North to South Mexico, Colombia and Bolivia. The small tubers 



are of a piquant flavor resembling the true pepper (pimienta) ; 



hence, " Pimienta de tierra." Sierra del Ajusco, 11,000 feet, Aug. 



18 (145). 



SAXIFRAGACE.5]. 



136. Ribes Jorullense H. B. & K. Nov. Gen. et Sp., VI, 61 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. 



Bot., I, 386. 



Emetic properties are attributed to the roots of this plant, called 

 "Saracuacho" by the Mexicans. La Cima, pedregal, Aug. 18 

 (124). 



137. Ribes microphyllum H. B. & K. Nov. Gen. et Sp., VI, 62; Biol. Centr. Amer. 



Bot., I, 386. 



La Cima, pedregal, 11,000 feet, Aug. 18 (115). 



ONAGRACE.2E. 



138. Oenothera sinuata Linn. Mant., II, 228 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., I, 454. 



From the United States southward through Mexico. Sierra del 

 Ajusco, 10,000 feet, Aug. 18 (138). 



UMBELLIFER^l. 



139. Eryngium montanum Coult. & Rose. 

 La Cima, pedregal, Aug. 18 (112). 



CORNACE^3. 



140. Garrya lauriflolia Benth. PI. Hartw., 14; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., I, 576. 



Reported from a number of localities in North and South Mex- 

 ico. A plant used medicinally. " El Cuauchichic ;" " Chichicua- 

 huitl." Sierra del Ajusco, Aug. 18 (147). 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



ERICACEAE. 



141. Pernettya ciliaris D.Don, ex. G. Don Gen. Syst., Ill, 837; Biol. Centr. Amer. 



Bot., II, 280. 



A strong, low growing, woody shrub with ericaceous lanceolate 

 leaves and red berries and strong root development. Said to be 

 poisonous to sheep. La Cima, Sierra del Ajusco, Aug. 18 (133). 



GENTIANACE^. 



142. Haleniaparviflora G.Don. Gen. Syst., IV, 177; Biol. Centr. Am. Bot., 11,352. 

 Distributed through Mexico to Colombia and Peru. La Cima, 



Sierra del Ajusco, Aug. 18 (137). 



BORAGINACEJE. 



143. Lithospermum angustifolium Michx. Fl. Bor. Am., I, 130; Biol. Centr. 



Amer. Bot., II, 381. 



Illinois to Wisconsin, southward to Texas and westward to Utah 

 and Arizona, also in Mexico. La Cima, Sierra del Ajusco, Aug. 18 

 (136). 



144. Lithospermum distichum Orteg. Hort. Matr., Dec. 8 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot. 



II, 381. 



South Mexico, peak of Orizaba, 11,000 to 12,000 feet (Galeotti). 

 Sierra del Ajusco, Aug. 18 (146). 



LABIATJE. 



145. Salvia glechomaefolia H. B. & K. Nov. Gen. et Sp., II, 290, t. 141 ; Biol. 



Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 556. 



South Mexico between Guanajuato and Santa Rosa at about 8,800 

 feet (Humb. & Bonpl). Sierra del Ajusco, Aug. 18 (142). 



SOLANACEJE. 



146. Nectouxia formosa H. B. & K. Nov. Gen. et Sp., Ill, 10, t. 193. 

 Reported from various parts of Mexico. La Cima, Sierra del 



Ajusco, 11,000 feet, Aug. 18 (110). 



147. Solanum tuberosum Linn. Sp. PL, 185; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 416. 



" The potato is wild in Mexico, but whether really indigenous it 

 is impossible to say. It is probable that more than one species was 

 concerned in the parentage of the cultivated varieties. On the other 

 hand, several tuberiferous Solani described by various authors as- 

 distinct species differ less from each other than the more distinct of 

 the cultivated varieties." These plants in such an unfrequented 

 place as the pedregal on top of a high mountain are probably wild. 




400 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Ejemplar silvestre recogido de la montaiia. This plant was one 

 foot high with purple flowers. Ped regal, La Cima, 10,000 feet, 

 Aug. 18 (131). 



148. Solanum tuberosum Linn. var. boreale Gray. 

 Sierra del Ajusco, Aug. 18 (140). 



SCROPHULARIACE^. 



149. Castilleja angustifolia Mart. & Gal. in Bull. Acad. Brux., XII, ii, (1845) 29; 



Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 460. 



Sierra del Ajusco, Aug. 18 (123 A). 



150. Castilleja tenuiflora Benth. PI. Hartw., 22. 

 Pedregal, La Cima, Aug. 18 (123). 



151. Pentstemon barbatus Roth. Catalect. fasc, III, 49 ; Nutt. Gen. Am., II, 53. 

 Pentstemon coccinens Engelm. in Wisliz.Tour. North. Mex., 107 (Sketch, 23). 

 Colorado, New Mexico, North and South Mexico. La Cima, 



Sierra del Ajusco, 10,000 feet, Aug. 18 (104). 



152. Pentstemon imberbis Trautv. in Bull. Sc. Petersb. V, (1839) 345 ; Biol. Centr. 



Amer. Bot., II, 445. 



Reported by a number of botanists in North and South Mexico. 

 La Cima, Sierra del Ajusco, Aug. 18 (104a). 



153. Pedicularis Mexicana Zucc. ex Bunge, in Bull. Phys. Math. Acad. Petersb., I, 



(1843)384. 



Pedregal, La Cima, 11,000 feet, Aug. 18 (111). 



CAPRIFOLIACEJE. 



154. Symphoricarpos microphyllus H. B. & K. Nov. Gen. et Sp. Ill, 424; Biol. 



Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 4. 



North Mexico, region of San Luis Potosi to South Mexico. 

 Pedregal, La Cima, Sierra del Ajusco, Aug. 18 (122). 



COMPOSITE. 



155. Stevia serrata Cav. Ic, IV, 33, t. 355 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 89. 

 North Mexico, region of San Luis Potosi ; South Mexico, near 



Tacubaya (Bourgeau). La Cima, pedregal, Aug. 18 (127). 



156. Stevia linoides Sob.. Bip. in Linntea, XXV, (1852) 284. 



The specimens collected are doubtfully referred to this species. 

 La Cima, Sierra del Ajusco, Aug. 18 (128). 



157. Senecio Sanguisorbse DC. Prodr., VI, 427; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 247. 

 A plant ranging from San Luis Potosi in North Mexico to Real 



del Monte in South Mexico. La Cima, Sierra del Ajusco, Aug. 18 

 (139). 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



158. Dahlia Merckii Lehrn. Delect. Sem. Hort. Hainb., 1839 ; ex Linnsea, XIV, 



(1840) Litt., 130. 



La Cima, pedregal, Aug. 18 (118, see ante). 



159. Gnaphalium Bourgovii A. Gray in Proc. Amer. Acad., XIX, (1883) 3. 



The plant is questionably referred to this species. South Mexico. 

 A plant resembling G. cheiranthifollum Lam. La Cima, in railroad 

 cut below the town. Aug. 18 (121). 



J. Salazar and Sierra de las Cruces. 



A brief description of this region is given in the introductory geo- 

 graphical portion. The region is one of great exposure to trying 

 and cold winds, we, therefore, find a more truely alpine flora than 

 at La Cima, although the elevations are about the same. This 

 accounts for the presence at Salazar of low, cespitose, or dwarfed 

 species. 



A ditch along the railroad before reaching Salazar afforded many 

 interesting plants. Las Cruces Valley, the scene of the battle in 

 1810 between Hidalgo and the Spaniards resulting in a victory for 

 the patriots, yielded a great variety of plants. The level of the 

 mountain meadows composing the valley is about 10,000 feet altitude. 

 Many cold springs, render the district fine botanizing ground. 



FILICES. 



160. Polypodium heteromorphum Hook, et Grew Ic. Fil., t. 108 ; Biol. Centr. 



Amer. Bot. Ill, 660. 



Sides of ditches, Salazar, Sierra de las Cruces. Extending from 

 South Mexico to Colombia and Ecuador. Aug. 13 (59). 



GRAMINEJE. 



161. Brachypodium Mexicanum Linn. Hort. Berol., I, 41 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., 



Ill, 58L 



North Mexico, region of San Luis Potosi (Virlet D'Aoust) ; South 

 Mexico, Chapultepec and Tacubaya (Schaffner) ; Chinantla, San 

 Felipe, (Liebmann). 



Salazar, 10,000 feet, Sierra de las Cruces, Aug. 13 (32). 



ERIOCAULONACE M. 



162. Eriooaulon sp. 



Boggy places, Salazar, Sierra de las Cruces, 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 

 (50). 




402 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



OOMMELINACEJE. 



163. Weldenia Candida Schult f. in Flora, XII, (1829) 3t., 1A. ; C. B. Clarke in DC. 



Monogr. Phanerog., Ill, 319 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., Ill, 396. 



South Mexico, between Chico and Real del Monte (Ehrenberg), 

 Nevada deToluca (Karwinski), Cuesta de Catinga (Schiede) ; Gua- 

 temala, Volcan de Agua at 14,000 feet (Hartweg). " Yerba de la 

 rata." At base of Abies religiosa, Salazar, Sierra de las Cruces, 

 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (13). 



164. Commelina sp. 



Salazar, 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (17a). 



165. Tradescantia sp. 



Salazar, 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (24). 



IRIDACEJE. 



166. Sisyrinchiuin Schaffneri S. Wats, in Proc. Amer. Acad., XVIII, (1883), 160 ; 



Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., Ill, 330. 



North Mexico, region of San Luis Potosi, (SchafFner, Parry & 

 Palmer). Salazar, Sierra de las Cruces, 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (26). 



URTIOACE^. 



167. Urtica Breweri S. Watson in Proc. Amer. Acad., X, (1875), 348. 



Salazar, 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (56). 



PORTULACACE^l. 



168. Claytonia perfoliata Donn. Ind. Hort. Cant.,25, ex. Willd. Sp., PI., I, 1,186; 



Bot. Mag., t. 1,336 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., I, 80. 



Temperate North America to South Mexico. An annual succu- 

 lent herb, serving for salad and also for spinach. The Indians of 

 Mexico, eat it raw. " Qualite de venado." Salazar, Aug. 13 (55). 



OARYOPHYLLACE^. 



169. Arenaria alsinoides Willd. ex Schlecht in Ges. Naturf. Fr. Berl. Mag., VII, 



(1813), 201. 

 A, lanuginosa Rohrb. in Mart. Fl. Bras., XIV, ii, 274. 



Common from North Carolina to Mexico, Central America, Peru 

 and Bolivia also in the West Indies. Salazar, Aug. 13 (48). 



170. Arenaria decussata AVilld. ex Schlecht in Ges. Naturf. Fr. Berl. Mag., VII, 



(1813), 212; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., I, 70. 



A dwarf alpine plant collected at Salazar, 1-2 inches high. North 

 to South Mexico. Salazar, Aug. 13 (27). 



171. Cerastium viscosum Linn. Sp. PI. 437. 



C. glomeratum Thuill, Fl. Par. ed., II, 226. 



Salazar, 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (16). 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



EANUNCULACEiE. 



172. Thaliotrum strigillosum Heinsl. Diagn. PI., Nov. 1 ; Biol. Cent. Am. Bot., 1,4. 

 T. Hernandezii Tausch in Presl. ftel. Hsenk., II, 69. 



South Mexico, rare in ravines among bushes (Schaffner), Tizapan, 

 Valley of Mexico (Bourgeau), Zimapan (Coulter), mountains around 

 Mitla, Oaxaca (Andrieux), between San Miguel and La Jaya 

 (Schiede). The specimens collected by me are doubtfully referred 

 to this species. A plant which is used as a diuretic and for kidney 

 complaints. " El Cozticpatli." Salazar, Aug. 13 (76). 



173. Ranunculus stoloniferus Hemsl. Diagn. PI., Nov. 17; Biol. Centr. Amer. 



Bot., I, 8. 



North to South Mexico. Salazar, 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (11). 



174. Ranunculus dichotomus Moc. & Sesse ex DC. Syst., I, 288 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. 



Bot., I, 6. 

 R. orthorynchus Hook. Fl. Bor. Am., I, 21, t. 9. 



Eecorded from a number of localities throughout Mexico. Salazar, 



10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (54). 



CRASSULACEJE. 



175. Sedum Moranense H. B. K. Nov. Gen.et Sp., VI, 44; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., 



I, 397. 



" Siempreviva." Salazar, 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (57). 



ROSACEA. 



176. Potentilla candioans Humb. & Bonpl. var. nana Nutt. 



A plant confined to South Mexico. Its woody roots contain 

 tannin. The plant contributes in a great part to the turf of the 

 region. An alpine xerophyte. Salazar, 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (72). 



177. Fragaria Mexicana Schlecht in Linnsea, XIII, (1839), 265 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. 



Bot., I, 375. 

 F. vesca Linn. Sp. PL, 494. 



A strawberry distributed from North Mexico, where it is common 

 in the Sierra Madre to South Mexico. Salazar, Aug. 12 (12). 



LEGUMINOS.E. 



178. Trifolium Schiedeanum S. Wats, in Proc. Am. Acad., XVII, (1882), 339 ; Biol. 



Centr. Amer. Bot., IV, 25. 



Distributed from North to South Mexico. Salazar, 10,000 feet, 

 Aug. 13 (64). 




404 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



179. Trifolium involucratum Ortega. Hort. Matr., Dec. 33; Willd. Sp. PL, III, 



1,372; Biol.Centr. Amer. Bot., I, 232. 



A plant found in California, Colorado, New Mexico, extending to 

 South Mexico. Salazar, 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (70). 



180. Astragalus didymocarpus Hook. Arn. Bot. Beech. Voy., 334. 

 Salazar, 10,000 feet, Aug. 31 (44). 



181. Astragalus reptans Willd. Hort. Ber., II, 88, t. 88 ; Biol. Cent. Am. Bot., I, 266. 



South Mexico, Tacubaya, Valley of Mexico (Bourgeau) ; Chap- 



ultepec (Bilimek). Salazar, Sierra de las Cruces, 11,000 feet, Aug. 



13 (20). 



GERANIACEJE. 



182. Geranium sp. 



Salazar, 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (65). 



183. Erodium cicutarium L'Herit. ex Ait. Hort. Kew. ed., I, ii, 414; Biol. Centr. 



Amer. Bot., I, 161. 



A plant widely dispersed in the north temperate regions of the 

 Old World, and now exceedingly common in many parts of North 

 America, but supposed to have been originally introduced by the 

 Spaniards. Used as a fodder plant in Europe. Extends from North 

 to South Mexico. 



"Alfilaria"; "Storksbill"; "Pinclover"; "Pingrass"; "Pin- 

 weed " ; " Filaria " " Filaree " ; "Alfilarilla." Salazar, 10,000 feet, 

 Aug. 13 (14). 



184. Oxalis violacea Linn. Sp. PL, 434. 

 Salazar, 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (69). 



185. Oxalis corniculata Linn. var. repens n. var. probably O. repens Thunb., Diss. 



OxaL, 16: Prod. PL Cap., 82. 



This plant is found in nearly all (except the colder) parts of the 

 world, varying very much. North Mexico to South Mexico, Guate- 

 mala and Nicaragua. Salazar, Aug. 13 (18). 



LINACE^. 



186. Linum Mexicanum H. B. & K. Nov. Gen. et Sp., VI, 39 ; Bot. Reg., t. 1.326; 



Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., I, 143. 



Abundant in South Mexico. Salazar, 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (63). 



EUPHORBIACEjE. 



187. Euphorbia campestris Cham. & Schlechtin Linnaa, V, (1830), S4; Biol. Centr. 



Amer. But., Ill, 92. 



Collected by a number of botanists in South Mexico. Salazar, 

 Aug. 13 (35). 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



VIOLACEiE. 



188. Viola Grahami Benth. PL Hartw., 35 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., 1, 50. 



North and South Mexico. Salazar, Aug. 13 (8, 15). 



189. Viola flagelliformis Hems!. Diagn. PI., Nov. 20 ; Biol. Cent, Am. Bot., I, 50. 



Salazar, 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (15a). 



ONAGRACE.S3. 



190. Epilobium Bonplandianum H. B. & K. Nov. Gen. et Sp., VI, 95. 

 Salazar, Sierra de las Cruces, Aug. 13 (38). 



191. Fuchsia microphylla H. B. & K. Nov. Gen. etSp., VI, 103, Biol. Centr. Amer. 



Bot., I, 458. 



Abundant in South Mexico. Growing along irrigating ditches, 

 11,000 feet. Salazar, Aug. 13 (30). 



UMBELLIFER^. 



192. Angelica Pringlei Coulter & Rose. 



Salazar, Sierra de las Cruces, 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (45). 



193. Eryngium ranunculoides Benth. PI. Hartw., 38 ; Biol. Cent. Am. Bot., I. 562. 

 South Mexico in mountain pastures, Aganguio (Hartweg). Salazar, 



in mountain meadows, 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (50a). 



194. Eryngium dilatatum Lam. Encyc, IV, 755. 

 Salazar, 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (50). 



ERICACEAE!. 



195. Pyrola secunda Linn. Sp. PL, 396 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 283. 



South Mexico, peak of Orizaba, 8,000 to 10,000 feet (Liebmann), 

 Desierto Viejo, Valley of Mexico (Bourgeau). Salazar, 10,000 feet, 

 Aug. 13 (34). 



LOGANIACE^. 



196. Buddleia Humboldtiana Roam. & Schult. Syst., Ill, 93 ; Biol. Centr. Amer; 



Bot., II, 341. 



From Southwest Texas and Southern New Mexico to Oaxaca. 

 " En las canadas y al margen de los arroyos. Se usa como forraje 

 para las reses" (Ramirez). Salazar on mountain sides, 11,000 feet, 

 Aug. 13 (29). 



ASCLEPIADACE.SJ. 



197. Asclepias sp. 



Salazar, Sierra de las Cruces, Aug. 13 (46). 




406 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



LABIATE. 



198. Salvia fulgens Cav. Ic, I, 15, t. 23 ; Biol. Centr. Anier. Bot., II, 556 ; DC. 



Prodr., XII, 333. 



South Mexico. Salazar, 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (62). 



199. Salvia nana H. B. & K. Nov. Gen. et Sp.,II, 289 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 



561 ; DC. Prodr., XII, 304. 



North Mexico to Guatemala. Doubtfully referred to this. Salazar, 

 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (71). 



200. Stachys coccinea Jacq. Hort. Schcenb., Ill, 18, t. 284 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. 



Bot., II, 571. 



Texas to Arizona, North Mexico to Guatemala (Volcan de Fuego, 

 7,000 feet). Salazar, 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (42). 



201. Stachys repens Mart. & Gal. in Bull. Acad. Brux., XI, ii, (1844), 194; Biol. 



Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 573 : DC. Prodr., XII, 479. 



South Mexico, Peak of Orizaba, 9,500 to 11,000 feet (Galeotti, 

 Linden) ; Desierto Viejo (Bourgeau). Salazar, Sierra de las Cruces, 

 Aug. 13 (43). 



202. Prunella vulgaris Linn. Sp. PL, 600; DC. Prodr., XII, 410; Biol. Centr. 



Amer. Bot., II, 570. 



This species is spread over the whole range of the genus in 

 Europe, Asia, America and Australia. Salazar, 10,000 feet, Aug. 

 13 (25). 



SOLANACE^. 



293. Physalis lobata Torr. in Ann. Lye. N. York, II, (1826), 226. A. Gray, Synop. 

 Fl. N. Am., II, 233 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., IV, 75. 



Colorado, Arizona, Texas — North Mexico, mountains west of 

 Saltillo, Coahuila (Palmer). My specimen is doubtfully referred to 

 this species. Salazar, 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (51). 



204. Solanum tuberosum Linn. Sp. PL, 185. 



Salazar, away from highway and railroad along an irrigating 

 ditch. 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (53). (A plant 18 inches high, rough 

 hispid with deep purple flowers, No. 61). 



SCROPHULARIACEJE. 



205. Sibthorpia Pitchinchensis II. B. & K. Nov. Gen. et Sp., II, 390, t. 175; Biol. 



Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 454. 



South Mexico, Vera Cruz to Orizaba (Muller), Zirnapan (Coulter), 

 Valley of Mexico (Bourgeau), peak of Orizaba, 9,000 to 12,000 feet 

 (Galeotti, Linden), Cordillera of Oaxaca at 9,000 feet (Galeotti). 

 Colombia to Peru, Bolivia and Argentina. Salazar, Sierra de las 

 Cruces, 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (47). 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 407 



206. Castilleja tenuiflora Benth. PI. Hartw., 22; Biol. Centr. Ainer. Bot., 11,463. 



Salazar, 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (68). 



207. Castilleja Schaffneri Hemsl. Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 462, tab. LXIII, B., 



figs. 7-13. 



A small alpine plant 2 inches high. Salazar, 10,000 feet, Aug. 

 13 (17). 



208. Mimulus luteus Linn. Sp. PL, ed. II, 8S4; DC. Prodr., X, 370 ; Bot. Mag., t. 



150, 3,336, 3,363; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 449. 



A variable species common in Western America, from the Aleu- 

 tian Islands and Alaska, through Mexico and along the Andes to 

 South Chili. Also naturalized in some parts of the Old World 

 (Hemsley). Salazar, Sierra de las, Cruces, 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 

 (65a). 



209. Pentstemon campanulatus Willd. Sp. PL, III, 228; DC. Prodr., X,326; Biol. 



Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 444; Bot. Mag., t. 1,878 ett. 3,884. 



South Mexico, very common. Salazar, Sierra de las Cruces. In 

 fir forests at about 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (31). 



PLANTAGINACE.ffi. 



210. Plantago Patagonica Jacq. Ic. PL Rar., II, 9, t. 306; Coll. SuppL, 35. 



The specimens collected are doubtfully referred to this species. 

 They may be P. Mexicana Link. (Enum. Hort. Berol., I, 121). 

 Salazar, 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (9). 



211. Plantago hirtella H. B. & K. Nov. Gen. et Sp., II, 229, t. 127. A. Gr., Synop". 



Fl. N. Am., II, 392; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 575. 



Salazar, Sierra de las Cruces, 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (40). 



RUBIACEJE. 



212. Houstonia Palmeri A. Gray. Proo. Amer. Acad., XVII, (1881-'82), 202 ; Biol. 



Centr. Amer. Bot., IV, 47. 



A small alpine plant. Salazar, 11,000 feet, Aug. 13 (23). 



LOBELIACEJE. 



213. Lobelia nana H. B. & K. Nov. Gen. et Sp., Ill, 317, t. 272; DC. Prodr., VII, 



379 ; Biol.. Centr. Amer. Bot., II, 268. 



South Mexico, near Real del Monte and Moran, at about 8,000 

 feet (Humboldt & Bonpland), Vera Cruz to Orizaba (Muller), peak 

 of Orizaba, 11,000 to 12,500 feet (Linden). A small plant, alpine 

 in habit. Salazar, Sierra de las Cruces, 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (23). 



214. Lobelia fulgens Willd. Hort. Berol., t. 85. 



Salazar, Aug. 13. Collected also at Lake Xochimilcho (ante). 



(77). 




408 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



COMPOSITE. 



215. Gnaphalium purpureum Linn. Sp. PL, 854. 



Salazar, Sierra de las Cruces, 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (6). 



216. Eupatorium Popocatepetlen.se Schlecht. ex Hemsl. Biol. Centr. Am. Bot., II, 



99 nomen. 



North Mexico, region of San Luis Potosi, 6,000 to 8,000 feet 

 (Parry & Palmer); South Mexico, Chiapas (Ghiesbregkt). Salazar, 

 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (31). 



217. Eupatorium pycnocephalum Less, in Linnaea, VI, (1831), 404. 

 Salazar, 10,000 feet, Aug. 13 (39). 



218. Senecio (Cacalia) silphifolia n.sp. 



A plant resembling greatly in habit our western American Com- 

 pass-plant Silphium laciniatum with large leaves which staud ver- 

 tically at various angles. The plant bears an upright corymb of 

 flowers. Named here tentatively, because, it has been probably 

 named and distributed with Pringle's plants of 1896. Salazar, 

 10,500 feet in meadows, Aug. 13 (28). 



Orizaba and Cordoba. 



Orizaba (4,000 feet) and Cordoba (2,700 feet) on the line of the 

 Mexican Railroad (Ferro-Carril Mexicano) can be treated of 

 together. Orizaba is a town of 15,000 inhabitants, 82 miles from 

 Vera Cruz and 181 miles from the City of Mexico. The town lies 

 in a little valley surrounded by very fine mountains. The peak of 

 Orizaba, however, cannot be seen, save a tiny strip of glittering 

 white over the crest of the Cerro de la Escamela. The other sur- 

 rounding hills are : the Barrego ; the Ranchito de Cristo ; Jala- 

 pilla ; San Juan del Rio ; the Rincon Grande ; and La Perla. The 

 town is composed, for the most part, of low houses with red-tiled 

 roofs; it is crossed by two small streams, and by the little river 

 Orizaba (through a rocky ravine filled with tropical plants), all of 

 which unite near by in the River Blanco, which plunges over a pre- 

 cipice in a cascade in the Rincon Grande. The valley alone was 

 explored botanically during the short time at the disposal of the 

 writer. The several ravines were followed through the town to the 

 outskirts, when circling the town, the fields and copses and woods 

 were investigated for the plants that might be in flower. Most of 

 the larger trees were found to be loaded down with epiphytes, 

 orchids, tillandsias, and mistletoe with several ferns. To one who 






1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 409 



for the first time visits a tropical country, the very wealth of the 

 material completely nonplusses him for a time. The region abounds 

 in orchids. Only the smaller forms were collected although many fine 

 large ones were seen. A botanist is at once impressed with the 

 luxuriance of the epiphytic growths. A hasty visit was also paid 

 to the Rincon Grande, where a number of plants were collected 

 within the influence of the spray of the water-fall. 



Only two hours were spent at Cordoba, between trains, so that 

 only a most hasty and superficial collection of plants was made of 

 the flora of this most interesting tropical region. 



FILICES. 



219. Adiautum Capillus-Veneris Linn. Hook. Sp. Fil., II, 36; Biol. Centr. Amer. 



Bot., Ill, 607. 



A plant very widely diffused in temperate regions, throughout 

 the world including the mountains of Mexico, where it occurs up to 

 an altitude of 10,000 feet on the peak of Orizaba. Orizaba, Aug. 



27 (363). 



220. Polypodium aureum Linn. Hunk. Sp. Fil. V, 16 j Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., 



Ill, 655. ' 



A fern extending from Florida southward in Mexico to Brazil. 

 The specimens collected by me were found in the forks of trees. 

 Orizaba, Aug. 27 (369). 



221. Nephrolepis cordifolia Presl. Hook, et Bak. Syn. Fil., 300; Biol. Centr. Amer. 



Bot., Ill, 652. 



South Mexico to Brazil and Peru, also in Cuba. Orizaba, Aug. 

 27 (356). 



LILIACEJE. 



222. Schoenocaulon officinale A. Gray in Benth. PI. Hartw., 29; Biol. Centr. 



Amer. Bot., Ill, 383. 



South Mexico to Guatemala and Venezuela. Slopes of El Bor- 

 rego, abundant. Orizaba, Aug. 27 (4,500 feet), (349). 



ORCHIDACEJE. 



223. Cypripedium irapeanum La Llave Lex. Nov. Veg. Desc. fasc, II (Orch. Opusc.) 



10 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., Ill, 307. 



C. molle Lindl. in Benth., PI. Hartw., 72. 



South Mexico to Guatemala. Slopes of hills near waterfall in 

 Rincon Grande. Orizaba, Aug. 27 ; flowers yellow, (328). 



27 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



224. Epidendrum virens Lindl. & Paxt. Flow. Gard., I, (1850-51), 152; Biol. 



Centr. Amer. Bot., Ill, 242. 



The living specimens collected and brought home, I doubtfully 

 refer them to this species. Orizaba, Aug. 27 (394). 



PIPERACE.E. 



225. Piper umbellatum Linn. Sp. PI., 30 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., Ill, 56. 



South Mexico, southward to Peru and Brazil, also in West Indies. 

 Cordoba, Aug. 26 (346). 



226. Piper sp. 



Orizaba, Aug. 27 (371). 



CARYOPHYLLACEJE. 



227. Silene Armeria Linn. Sp. PL, 420. 

 Orizaba, Aug. 27 (366). 



ANONACEJE. 



228. Anona Cherimolia Miller Gard. Diet. ed. VIII, n. 5 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., 



I, 18; Bot. Mag., t. 2,011. 



Extending from South Mexico to Ecuador and Peru; widely 

 spread in Tropical America. Naturalized in some of the West 

 Indian Islands according to Grisebach. 



" One of the ' Custard Apples.' This shruL or tree might be tried 

 in frostless forest valleys where the humidity and rich soil will prove 

 favorable to its growth. It is hardy in the wildest coast regions of 

 Spain, also in Chili. In Jamaica it is cultivated up to 5,000 feet." 

 (Mueller). Orizaba, Aug. 27 (380). 



LEGUMINOS^E. 



229. Mimosa albida H. & B. in Willd. Spec., IV, 1,030. 

 Cordoba, Aug. 26 (350). " Sensitive Plant." 



MALVACEJE. 



230. Malvaviscus arboreus Cav. Diss., Ill, t. 48 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., I, 118. 

 North Mexico to Guatemala, Panama ; also common in the West 



Indies including Cuba. Orizaba, Aug. 27 (362). 



CACTACEiE. 



231. Cereus triangularis Mill. Gard. Diet. ed. VIII, n. 9; Bot. Mag., t. 1,834; 



Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., I, 547. 



Orizaba, Aug. 27. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



232. Phyllocactus grandis Lem. in Fl. des Serres, III, (1847), 255, verso. 



Mexico, region of Orizaba, Honduras. Orizaba in Rincon Grande, 



Aug. 27 (373). 



MYRTACEJE. 



233. Psidium Guajava Linn. Sp. PI., 470 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., I, 406. 



From the West Indies and Mexico to South Brazil. " This 

 handsome evergreen and useful bush should engage universal atten- 

 tion anywhere in warm lowlands, for the sake of its aromatic whole- 

 some berries, which attain the size of a hen's egg, and can be 

 converted into a delicious jelly. The pulp is generally cream col- 

 ored or reddish, but varies in the many varieties which have arisen 

 in culture, some of them bearing all the year round. Propagation 

 is easy from suckers, cuttings or seeds. This big shrub is easily held 

 under control in extra-tropic countries, but in the warmest and moist- 

 est tropical regions it may become irrepressible, as it spreads readily 

 from suckers, and gets disseminated by birds and cattle easily." 

 (Mueller). Orizaba, Aug. 27 (367). 



ARALIACEJE. 



234. Dendropanax arboreum Decne. & Planch, Rev. Hort., ser. IV, iii (1854), 107. 

 This species has a wide range in the West Indies and tropical 



South America. " Vibona," (Cuba). Orizaba, Aug. 27 (353). 



ASCLEPIADACEJE. 



235. Gonolobus eriantnus Decne. in DC. Prodr., VIII, 592; Biol. Centr. Amer. 



Bot., II, 331. 



The specimens collected by me are more hairy than those distrib- 

 uted by Pringle. It is possible that they are to be referred to G. 

 atratus Gray with broader leaves, but the same pubescence. South 

 Mexico to Guatemala. Orizaba, Aug. 27 (364). 



VERBENACE^. 



236. Duranta Plumieri Jacq. Select. Am., 186, t. 176, f. 76 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. Bot., 



II, 538. 



A shrub 8 to 12 feet high in rough rocky woods, not uncommon 

 from Florida through South Mexico to Peru, Brazil and in the 

 West Indies. " Violetina " (Cuba). Orizaba, Aug. 27 (352). 



237. Lantana camara Linn. Sp. PL, 874 ; DC. Prodr., XI, 598 ; Biol. Centr. Amer. 



Bot., II, 527. 



Georgia, Florida, Texas, Mexico, and generally dispersed in 

 tropical South America and West Indies. " Filigrana " (Cuba). 

 Orizaba, Aug. 27 (358). 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



CUCURBITACEJE. 



238. Sechium edule Swartz. Fl. Ind. Occ, II, 1,150 ; Biol. Centr. Anier. Bot., 1, 491. 



" The large, starchy root of this climber can be consumed as a 

 culinary vegetable, while the good-sized fruits are also edible. The 

 fruit often germinates before it drops. The plant bears, even in the 

 first year, and may ripen one hundred fruits a year. Cultivated up 

 to 5,000 feet in Jamaica" (Mueller). 



South Mexico, Santa Anita near Mexico (Bourgeau), Orizaba 

 (Botteri), valley of Cordova (Bourgeau); Panama, without locality 

 (Seemann) ; West Indies and Tropical South America. " Chow- 

 Chow" (Jamaica); " Chocho," "Chayota" (Mexico). 



COMPOSITJE. 



239. Senecio grandifolius Less, in Linnaea, V, (1830), 162 ; Biol. Centr. Anier. Bot., 



II, 240. 



South Mexico, region of Orizaba (Botteri, Bourgeau), valley of 

 Cordova (Bourgeau), Montecinos, Vera Cruz (Linden). 

 Orizaba, Aug. 26th (360). 



ADDENDA 



(with families omitted). 



240. Thalia dealbata Fras. Thai, dealbata, 1. 1 ; Bot. Mag., t. 1,690; Biol. Centr. 



Anier. Bot., Ill, 310. 



Aloug ditches of Mexican Central R. R., near Guadalajara. 



241. Nymphaea gracilis Zucc. in Abh. Akad. Muench., I (1832), 362; Biol. Centr. 



Amer. Bot., I,. 25. 



"A Mexican species of great merit, has large, handsome, star- 

 shaped white flowers, which are borne on stout stems well above the 

 foliage. It is worthy of note as being the only white day-blooming 

 tropical or tender species ; a very vigorous plant, free-flowering, the 

 flowers possessing a delicate fragrance, resembling Lily of the Val- 

 ley" (1897), Tricker, The Water Garden, p. 90, fig. on p. 91 and pi. 

 III. South Mexico, lakes near Oaxaca, 5,000 feet (Galeotti), Mex- 

 ico (Karwinski), ditches at Tacubaya, Valley of Mexico (Bourgeau), 

 Aguas Calientes (Hartweg). 



In ponds along Mexican Central R. R. near Guadalajara. 



242. Talinum Greenmanii Harsbberger in Bull. Torrey Bot. Club, XXIV, 183,Apr. 

 24, 1897, Plate 299, Fig. 4. 



Volcanic gravel, Sierra del Ajusco, Mexico, 8,500 feet. Possibly 

 it is T. humile described by E. L. Greene. Pringle Plantce mexicance, 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 413 



No. 6,472. Named in honor of Jesse Moore GreenmaD, of the Gray 

 Herbarium, Cambridge, Mass. 



243. Agave Americana Linn. Sp. PI., 323. 



A plant extensively cultivated throughout Mexico for its fibre 

 and for the juice which yields, upon fermentation, the national bev- 

 erage, pulque. 



244. Taxodium mucronatum Tenore in Ann. Sc. Nat. ser. Ill, xix, (1S53), 355. 



A tree found reaching gigantic girth in several parts of Mexico. 

 The grove of Mexican cypresses below the Castle of Chapultepec 

 being noted for the size of the individual species composing it. Two 

 notable trees are found in it, one 19} feet in diameter, the other, the 

 tree of Montezuma, 14 feet in diameter. Another gigantic specimen 

 is found at Tule on the road from Oaxaca to Guatemala, circumfer- 

 ence, five feet from ground, 146 feet; longest diameter, 40 feet; 

 shortest diameter of the trunk, 20 feet. This tree was also met with 

 at Las Canoas on the Tampico branch of the Mexican Central Rail- 

 road. 'Ahuehuete." , 



245. Zea Mays Linn. X Euchlaena Mexicana Schrad. Zea Mays Linn., Sp., pi. 971. 

 Euchlaena Mexicana Schrad. Ind. Sem. Hort. Gotting (1832). — Cf. Linnaea 



viii (1833) Litt. 25. 



The hybrids of these two plants throw considerable light upon the 

 origin of our cultivated maize. I would refer the student to several 

 papers upon this subject by the writer, as follows: 



1. Maize: A Botanical and Economic Study. Contrib. Botan. 

 Lab. University of Penna., I, pp. 75-202, with 4 plates. A Spanish 

 translation of the entire paper appeared in Mexico, entitled "El 

 Maiz : Estudio Botanico y Economico" (1894), pp. 164. 



2. Fertile Crosses of Teosinthe and Maize. Garden and Forest, 

 IX, p. 522. 



3. Notes on the Hybrid of Maize and Teosinthe. Garden and 

 Forest, X, p. 48. 



4. The Uses of Plants Among the Ancient Peruvians. Bull, of 

 the Museum of Science and Art, University of Penna., I. 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



FOSSIL MOLLTJSKS AND DIATOMS FROM THE DISMAL SWAMP, 



VIRGINIA AND NORTH CAROLINA ; INDICATION OF 



THE GEOLOGICAL AGE OF THE DEPOSIT. 



BY LEWIS WOOLMAN. 



WITH NOTES ON THE DIATOMS. 



BY CHARLES S. BOYER. 



During the winter of 1897-98 the Dismal Swamp Canal was 

 widened and deepened, and the level of the central portion lowered so 

 as to dispense with the middle two of the four locks heretofore in use. 

 The work was done by the McManus Construction Company of 

 Philadelphia, steam rotary dredging machines being used in exca- 

 vating. These dredges brought up from the bottom, at points both 

 south and north of the Virginia-North Carolina boundary, large 

 numbers of marine mollusks. Through the appreciative interest in 

 scientific matters of M. Homer, Secretary and Treasurer of the Con- 

 struction Company, we have been furnished on three occasions with 

 specimens of these shells, which he specially and personally col- 

 lected on his visits to the field of operations. 



It is the purpose of this paper to put on record the species of 

 these shells and also of the marine diatoms which were associated 

 with them in the same matrix, and to indicate, though perhaps ten- 

 tatively, from a study of both the macroscopic and microscopic fos- 

 sils, the geological age of the bed from which they were obtained. 



The Dismal Swamp Canal connects on the south at a point near 

 South Mills, N. C, with the headwaters of the Pasquotank River, a 

 tributary of Albemarle Sound, and on the north at a point near 

 Deep Creek with the waters of the south branch of the Elizabeth 

 River, a tributary of the James River and the Chesapeake Bay. 

 The general direction of the canal between these two points is north- 

 ward, with, however, a decidedly obtuse angled bend, or bow, to the 

 westward, the angle being near Drummond Lake, from which a 

 feeder canal brings the water from the Jake into the main canal. 

 This feeder was also deepened. 



M. Homer states that the shells furnished by him were obtained 

 from the following localities : — 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 415 



1st. — A point on the main canal in North Carolina, two to three 

 miles south of the Virginia boundary. 



2d. — A point on the main canal in Virginia, about five miles 

 north of the feeder, or four miles north of Wallaceton, a small Post 

 Office and settlement on drained land near the centre of the swamp. 



3d. — A point about midway of the feeder, say one and one-half 

 miles west of its junction with the main canal. 



A noticeable peculiarity, as stated by M. Homer, is that the 

 collections from the main canal, from both the Virginia and North 

 Carolina localities, contain great numbers of the large conch, Fulgur 

 carica, while this shell is wanting in those thrown out from the 

 feeder. Here, however, the oysters, Ostrea virginiea, are exceed- 

 ingly numerous, and many of them are of extra large size, one speci- 

 men in the possession of M. Homer measuring ten inches in length 

 and four and one-half inches in width. 



But few specimens, comprising only three species, were brought 

 from the locality south of the Virginia-North Carolina line. M. 

 Homer, however, states that the shells seemed as varied in form and 

 as plentiful there as north of Wallaceton. 



In one lump of clay matrix, about the size of a walnut, obtained 

 from the bottom of the dredgings north of Wallaceton, we discov- 

 ered, on a preliminary microscopic examination, a very few diatoms, 

 and a few, though perhaps a slightly larger number of sponge spicu- 

 les. A separation and cleaning of the diatoms from this lump of 

 clay was made by a fellow member of the Academy, John A. 

 Shulze, after which the forms were identified by another member, 

 Prof. C. S. Boyer. The mollusks were jointly identified by Prof. H. 

 A. Pilsbry of the Conchological Section of the Academy and C. W. 

 Johnston, Curator of the Wagner Free Institute of Science. 



Below we tabulate the mollusks according to their range in geo- 

 logical time into three columns headed Miocene (M), Pliocene (P) 

 and Recent (R) — under Recent are included both Pleistocene and 

 now living forms. On the right, in two additional columns, we note 

 the occurrence of such of the forms as have been found in the Croa- 

 tan, N. C, and the Waccamaw, S. C, beds, both of which contain 

 a somewhat similar molluscan fauna. 



The geological range, as noted in the first three columns, we take 

 from Dr. W. H. Dall's " Tables of Species " from the Waccamaw 

 and the Croatan beds. 1 



1 Transactions of the Wagner Free Institute of Science, Vol. Ill, Part 2, 

 pages 210 to 215. 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



The Croatan beds are in North Carolina, about 120 miles slightly 

 west of south of the Dismal Swamp, and about eighteen miles from 

 the nearest point on the coast. They are on the northern border 

 of a similar swamp area on the southern side of the Neuse River, 

 and are about fifteen miles below Newbern. Both the Croatan 

 and the Dismal Swamp shell localities are approximately 75 or 80 

 miles eastward of the rocks of the Piedmont plateau, which rocks 

 bound the inland border of the less consolidated beds of the Atlan- 

 tic Coastal plain. The two localities occupy a similar position both 

 geographically and stratigraphically. 



The Waccamaw beds are in the extreme eastern part of the State 

 of South Carolina, and are exposed along the banks of the Wacca- 

 maw River from some four miles, to about 18 miles above Conway. 

 They are on low ground, and are also on the western side of another 

 of the swamp areas that occur on the seaward margin of the coastal 

 plain from Cape May County, N. J., to South Carolina and Georgia. 

 Geographically, they are similarly situated to the Croatan and the 

 Dismal Swamp localities. 



Fossil mollusks from the Croatan and the Waccamaw localities 

 have been carefully studied and listed I y Dr. W. H. Dall, who refers 

 both beds to the Pliocene. The fauna, however, when considered 

 with reference to the percentage of recent over extinct forms, would 

 indicate that the Croatan beds were slightly the younger of the two 

 deposits, there being, according to Dr. Dall, 83 per cent, of recent 

 forms in the Croatan and only 70 per cent, in the Waccamaw beds. 

 In summing up, Dr. Dall says " the Croatan beds are obviously 

 newer than those of the Waccamaw, yet when compared with the 

 admitted Pleistocene beds of South Carolina" such as those of Sim- 

 mons Bluff, the presence on the Neuse " [the locality of the Croatan 

 beds] " of 41 out of 90 species, which have not been known later 

 than the Pliocene, forbids us to regard the fauna as later than Plio- 

 cene." 



In the study of the mollusks from the Dismal Swamp Canal the 

 writer has had the advantage of some correspondence with Dr. W. 

 H. Dall and of consultation with Prof. H. A. Pilsbry and C. W. 

 Johnson, the latter of whom has collected a full series of shells from 

 the Croatan beds, and a like series from the Waccamaw beds, both 

 of which collections are now displayed in the Museum of the 

 Wagner Free Institute of Science of Philadelphia, and with which 

 the shells from the Dismal Swamp have been carefully compared. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 417 



The three species previously noted as having been collected from 

 the bottom of the old south level near South Mills, N. C, were Uro- 

 salpinx cinerea, Fulgur carica and Ostrea virginica — the elevation 

 of the surface at this point being about 11 feet. 



All the forms, however, listed below, excepting Urosalpinx cin- 

 erea Say, were obtained from a locality along the Deep Creek level 

 of the Old Canal, at a point four miles north of Wallaceton, Va., 

 and from a depth of about ten feet, the elevation of the surface being 

 about sixteen feet. The Deep Creek level is next north of the sum- 

 mit level of the old canal, the latter having an elevation of about 

 twenty feet. 



Ostrea virginica, generally much larger and more numerous than 

 at South Mills or at north of Wallaceton, was likewise brought up 

 in the dredgings from the bottom of the feeder leading from Drum- 

 mond Lake, say at approximately ten feet below the surface level, 

 which, at the point under consideration, is about twenty feet above 

 tide, the elevation of the surface of the lake being, according to a 

 survey made by the U. S. Engineers during the winter of 1895-1896, 

 22 T VV feet. 



Mollusks from the base of a low escarpment on the western bor- 

 der of the swamp near Suffolk, Va., and near the Jericho Canal, 

 which leads north-westwardly from Lake Drummoud to the Nanse- 

 mond River, have been noted by Prof. N. S. Shaler. After listing 

 the species as identified by Dr. W. H. Dall, he says: "Traces of 

 this same deposit occur a few miles south of Suffolk, and I suspect 

 the existence of similar beds near Elizabeth City. From certain 

 comminuted fragments taken from the bottom of the main Dismal 

 Swamp Canal, it seems to me not improbable that the beds were 

 touched in making that excavation. I am, therefore, disposed to 

 believe that the foundation rocks beneath the swamp district consist 

 mainly of the beds indicated by the foregoing list of fossils." 2 



Prof. Shaler thus indicates fossil beds which the recent deepening 

 of the Dismal Swamp Canal has abuudantly verified, though very few 

 of the species in Prof. Shaler's collection and our own are the same ; 

 and yet, as will be seen further on, upon analyzing the forms in the 

 two collections, they tell a similar geological tale. 



We now insert tables of the mollusks from the Dismal Swamp 

 and the Jericho Canal localities. 



2 Tenth Annual Eeport U. S. Geol. Survey, page 316. 




418 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



TABLE OF SPECIES OF MOLLUSKS DREDGED FROM THE DISMAL 

 SWAMP CANAL IN NORTH CAROLINA AND VIRGINIA. 



Mollusks. 



Area limula Conr., one 



Area plicatura Conr., var. sublineolata D'Orb., 



numerous 



Corbula eontraeta Say 



Cytheiea convexa Say = ( C. say ana Conr.) 



Midi nia (Maetra) lateralis Say 



Nit eula proxima Say « 



Venus mercenaria Lara'k 



Lueina crenulata Conr 



Olivella nitidula Dillw 



Polynices [Natiea) [A T everita) duplicata Say... 



Tornatina [Bulla) canalieulata Say 



Nassa obsoleta Say, few 



Divarieella [Lueina) quadrisulcata D'Orb 



Cezcum cooperi Smith 



Ostrea virginiea Gmel 



Crepii/ula plana Say 



Eupleura caudata Say 



Fulgur canaheulatum S'ay , one 



Fulgur carica Gmel., numerous 



Nassa trivitta t a Say, numerous 



Scala lineataSaj 



Turbonilla reticulata Ads 



Spisula [Maetra) solidissima Dillw 



Tellina tenera Say 



Solen americanus Gmel 



Urosalpinx cinerea Say 



Coral. 

 Astrangia danae Agas 



Range 

 in time. 



M. P. R. 



x 



X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 



X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 



a 

 5 * 



O (-, 



o 

 o 

 o 







o 

 o 

 o 



o 

 o 



o 







o 

 o 

 o 

 o 

 o 



o 

 o 



33 



o 



jS CO 



a> 



-a 



a 



~3 



is 



93 



£ 



33 







o 

 o 





 



o 





 

 

 











o 

 o 

 o 



o 

 o 



For comparison with the above we tabulate in a similar manner 

 the list of fossils obtained by Prof. N. S. Shaler, from the north- 

 western part of the Dismal Swamp, near Suffolk, and identified by 

 Dr. Dall. We take the list from Prof. Shaler's monograph on the 

 Dismal Swamp in the Tenth Annual Report of the United States 

 Geological Survey, page 315. 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



419 



TABLE OF MOLLUSCAN SPECIES FOUND IN BEDS EXPOSED BY A 



ROAD CUTTING NEAR THE JERICHO CANAL, TWO MILES 



EAST OF SUFFOLK, VA. 



Area incile Conr 



Crassatella undnlata Say 



Mactra congesta Conr 



Anachis (Columbella) avara Say 



Turrit ella apical is Hp. (var. ) 



Pecten eboreus Conr 



Abra aequalis Say 



Callista convexa Say (— C say ana Conr.) 



Eryphvla lunata Conr 



Gouldia cerina Ad 



Leda acuta Conr 



Lucina crenulata Conr 



Yoldia limatula Say 



Dosinia e/egans Conr 



Ostrea virginica Gmel 



Pecten exasperatus Sowb 



Crepidula convexa Say 



Liomesus stimpsonii Dall 



Turbonilla inierrupta Totten 



Cadulus caro/inensis Bush 



Cardium islandicutn Lin 



Chione albida Gmel 



Nucula tenuis Mtg 



Tellina tenia Say 



Tellina modesta Verrill 



Sea/aria clathratula Adams 



Ethalia Sp. ?fragm 



Eulima Sp. ? 



Balanus Sp. ? 



Range 

 in time. 



M. P. R. 



x 



X 



X 



X 

 X 

 X 

 X 



X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 

 X 



a - 



o 



CO 



C 



T3 

 a> 

 -Q 



a 



OS 



a 



o 



o 



O 



o 









 

 



o 







& CO 



41 



a 



< 



-a 



2 



■J 



0? 

 O 



o 

 o 





 



o 

 o 



Of the 26 species of mollusks from near Wallaceton, 17 occur at 

 both Croatan and Waccamaw, 2 others occur at Croatan and not at 

 Waccamaw, and still 2 others at Waccamaw and not at Croatan, 

 while 5 have not been recorded at either of these two localities. 



Of the 26 specifically identified out of the 29 forms from near 

 Jericho, 6 occur at both Croatan and Waccamaw, 1 occurs at Croa- 

 tan only, and 3 at Waccamaw only, while 16, more than half of 

 which are recent, have not been noted at either of these localities. 




420 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



In the lists above there are but 3 species occurring injboth locali- 

 ties, viz. : Cyiherea convexa, Liicina crenulata, and Ostrea virginica. 

 Adding the numbers in the two lists and deducting these three, 

 since they have been counted twice, we find there are, altogether, 52 

 molluscan forms, of which 3 are not specifically identified. Analyz- 

 ing the remaining 49, we find their numbers range in geological 

 time as follows : — 



fr ich it will be seen that there are 



.iocene and pre-Pliocene forms 7 species. 



Ranging from Miocene to Recent 16 species. 



Both Pliocene and Recent 14 species. 



Recent, including Pleistocene 12 species. 



Judging from these proportionate figures alone, which show 42 

 forms still living, out of a total of 49, the writer would be inclined 

 to assign the age of the beds from which these fossils were obtained 

 as not earlier than late Pliocene time, while it may even possibly 

 belong to Pleistocene time. 



We may, however, more particularly note other reasons for this 

 conclusion as to age. 



Twenty-six, or fully one-half of the shells specifically identified, 

 clearly have a post-Miocene aspect, including two forms, Fulgur 

 carica and Ostrea virginica, which are the most numerous of the col- 

 lection. The specimens of F. carica present a peculiarity of sculpt- 

 ure which distinguishes them from the shells now living upon the 

 coast; the surface being densely scored by fine crimped or undulat- 

 ing spiral stria?, in fully adult, large individuals. In recent shells 

 of similar size such striation is nearly obsolete or wholly wanting, 

 even when the superficial coat has not been removed by erosion. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 421 



Sixteen other forms have a persistent range from the Miocene 

 through the Pliocene and Pleistocene periods down to the present 

 time. 



If we include these 16 as representatives of recent time, we have, 

 as noted above, 42 ; or, as pointed out by Dr. Dall in a letter from 

 which we quote, " nearly all the species as recent." 



One other form, Area lunula, is usually considered distinctively 

 Miocene, but its presence may be accounted for by considering it as 

 an introduction from the underlying Miocene beds, which are prob- 

 ably not over 50 feet from the surface in this region. Bearing upon 

 this, the writer may say that he has in his possession artesian well 

 borings recently made at Old Point Comfort and Norfolk, Va. At 

 Old Point Comfort, at the depth of 50 feet, were a number of shells, 

 among them such Miocene forms as Dosinia acetabulum and Pecten 

 madisonius, while at Norfolk there were obtained, at the depth of 

 105 feet, a fragment of Pecten madisonius, at 115 feet a perfect shell of 

 Gnathodon clathrodon, and at 175 feet a fragment of Pecten ehoreus. 



Respecting another form in the DismabSwamp bed, Arc. >lica- 

 tura, or perhaps a variety thereof, Dr. Dall says, after an ex ina- 

 tion by him of a number of specimens of this species which ~d 



sent him : "The Area you send is one which occurs in the ] 

 County Natural Well, North Carolina, and which was namK. j 

 Conrad Area lineolata ; but as there was already a species of this 

 name, D'Orbigny re-named it sublineolata. It appears to be a mu- 

 tation of J., plicatura, to which I have referred it in my (MS.) work 

 on the Tertiary Areas of the United States. There was one Plio- 

 cene species in the fossils from the Jericho Canal, 3 and as the Du- 

 plin beds are at the very top of the Miocene, it would not be strange 

 if A. sublineolata overlapped." 



Bearing still further upon the entire subject, we further quote Dr. 

 Dall from the same letter : — 



" The species from your list* are all recent except Area limula 

 [and Area sublineolata'], but some of them are not now found so far 

 north. Now we know that in Pliocene times some northward ad- 

 vance was made by the warm water species, such as Gnathodon and 

 Gyrena. There are too many recent species (assuming that the fauna 

 is not a mechanical mixture of shells of different ages) for the refer- 



3 This has reference to the bed near Suffolk, the forms from which appear 

 in the second of the preceding lists. 



4 Reference is here made only to the first list, that from near Wallaceton. 




422 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



ence of this fauna to the Upper Miocene — and we know that the ex- 

 tinct species [A limula and A. lineolata] are not quaternary even in 

 Florida — so, subject to the above assumption, I think we shall have 

 to regard it as Pliocene. * * * * The Croatan beds are dis- 

 tinctively Pliocene, but these are more like the contact between the 

 southern Pliocene and a more northern cold water fauna." 



Corroborative of the views already advanced as to the age of this 

 bed is the following, written by Prof. N. S. Shaler respecting the 

 mollusks listed above from near the Jericho Canal : " The species 

 determined by W. H. Dall, paleontologist of the U. S. Geological 

 Survey, indicates in a general manner that the beds are of Pliocene 

 age. Of the 29 species that appear in my collection, 24, according 

 to Dr. Dall, belong to living forms and 5 are extinct. The extinct 

 species are found in the so-called Pliocene of Florida, South Car- 

 olina and Virginia. There can be no question the deposit is of pre- 

 glacial age." 5 



We now consider the evidence presented by the diatom flora 

 which we think corroborates that presented by the mollusks for rea- 

 sons which we shall note after the introduction of the following state- 

 ment by Charles S. Boyer, A. M., Made by him after a careful ex- 

 amination of a number of mounts prepared from the material which 

 had been reliably cleaned, as already stated, by John A. Shulze, and 

 to which we are well assured there has been no admixture of di- 

 atoms from any other source : — 



"The following list includes all the forms, 31 in number, found 

 in the slides of the Dismal Swamp material except a few fragments 

 which were too small for accurate determination. 



"In the middle column is noted the relative frequency and rarity 

 of some of the forms in comparison with the rest as seen in the 

 strewn mounts : — 



" Of the above forms all but four are strictly marine. The ex- 

 ceptions are Navicula major and Stauroneis Phoenicenteron, which 

 are fresh water, Campylodiscus Echeneis which is both brackish and 

 fresh water, and Melosira crenulata var. antique/,, which is possibly 

 also fresh water. 



" I think I have named all on the slides at hand, except probably 

 one or two forms of Coscinodiscus and Navicula, which were in frag- 

 ments. 



5 Tenth Annual Report, U. S. Geol. Survey, page 315. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



423 



1898.] 



" Of the 31 named, 2, Actinoptychus Heliopelta and Aulacodiscus 

 Rogersii are distinctly Miocene ; 4, Coscino discus robustus, Stephano- 

 pyxis aculeata and Corona, and Triceratium semicirculare are quite 



characteristic of that period, while of the remaining 25, onl) r 4, 

 Campy lodiscus Eeheneis, Cerataulus turgidus, Eupodiscas radiatus 




424 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



and Stauroneis Phoenicenteron can be considered as distinctive of 

 later deposits. 



" In general, therefore, it may be said that the deposit can be con- 

 sidered as a mixture of Miocene and later deposits, though the lat- 

 ter need not necessarily have been so very recent." 



From an examination of the above list of diatoms the present 

 author would classify them as follows : Six forms characteristically 

 Miocene, 19 forms that have survived from Miocene to present time 

 and are now living, and 4 either Pliocene or Pleistocene, or both, 

 and also now living. These 4 are the same as those noted above by 

 C. S. Boyer as distinctive of deposits later than Miocene. 



If the 19 survivals belong to present time, there are 23 that may 

 be considered recent, or comparatively so. Respecting the ex- 

 clusively Miocene forms it is probable that these have been brought 

 down in post-Miocene times by the James River in its passage over 

 the original beds from Richmond southeastward. It is probable 

 also that some of the individuals of perhaps each of the 19 species 

 having the more cosmopolitan range were also similarly introduced. 

 We are confirmed in this view by the occurrence among the char- 

 acteristic Miocene diatoms of Actinoptychus Heliopelta, a form which 

 the writer has frequently found heretofore both in outcrops and in 

 well borings, but always at or below the base of the great 300 to 

 400 feet Miocene diatomaceous clay bed of the Atlantic Coastal 

 Plain. In Maryland it occurs at the base of this bed in well bor- 

 ings at Crisfield and in outcrops at and near Nottingham on the 

 Patuxent River. In Virginia it has been found in outcrops at 

 Petersburg and Bermuda Hundred. In New Jersey, owing proba- 

 bly to a thickening of the basal beds of the Miocene, it occurs some 

 distance below the main diatom bed. It has thus been found in out- 

 crops near Shiloh and in well borings at Asbury Park and Wild- 

 wood. At the latter place it was found in a thin seam of clay about 

 250 feet below the bottom of the great diatom bed. In each instance 

 just cited its position is at or very near the base of the Miocene, 

 either resting directly upon or only a short distance above green- 

 sands of Eocene Age. Many other borings have been made in New 

 Jersey through or nearly through these beds, from which the writer 

 has had complete series of specimens every 10 to 20 feet apart, all 

 of which he has examined, but in none of them has he ever found A. 

 Heliopelta stratigraphically higher than near the base of the Mio- 

 cene. Now the diatom bed outcropping at Richmond, Petersburg 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 425 



and vicinity has been found by the writer in the Norfolk well bor- 

 ing at between the depths of 585 and 625 feet, while the continuation 

 upward of the same clay contained sponge spicules up to about 400 

 feet from the surface. No diatoms or sponge spicules were found 

 higher in this well excepting between the depths of 25 feet and 65< 

 feet, where a stratum, probably the equivalent of the Dismal Swamp 

 bed, contained these same micro-organisms, though, as in the Dis- 

 mal Swamp deposit, very sparingly. The Miocene beds at Bermuda 

 Hundred and Petersburg are rich in diatoms, and especially so ii* 

 A. Heliopelta, and since the diatoms in the Dismal Swamp deposit 

 were exceedingly meager, (perhaps not one per cent, of the entire 

 matrix), and since A. Heliopelta and other Miocene species were 

 scantiest in numbers of all the contained forms, we cannot, in view of 

 all the facts, consider that the introduction of these Miocene forms has 

 been by other than mechanical means in post-Miocene times. At what 

 period that subsequent time was, three of the more recent forms, 

 Campy lodiscus Echenels, Cerataulus turgidus and Stauroneis Phoeni- 

 eenteron, shed much light. We will now particularly notice each of 

 these forms. 



In a mass of brick clay from a low terrace at Bridgeton, N. J., 

 which terrace is assigned by the New Jersey State Geological 

 Survey report to a very recent geological phase of the gravels of 

 that State, the writer found a very considerable number of diatoms 

 not at all Miocene in aspect, and among them a large number of 

 the same species of Cerataulus. 



Respecting Campylo discus Eeheneis it may be stated that this form 

 has been recorded as living principally in brackish waters the world 

 over, though Prof. C. S. Boyer informs the writer that he has found 

 it in a fresh water reservoir at Philadelphia, supplied from the 

 Schuylkill River. Though not, however, heretofore recorded, so far 

 as we are able to learn, as fossil, yet the writer has so seen it in a 

 low level clay from near Buckskutem on the Maurice River, below 

 Millville, N. J., the stratigraphical position of which is the equiva- 

 lent of the Bridgeton clay above referred to. 



On a map of the surface formations of New Jersey in the annual' 

 report of the geological survey of that State for 1897 there is shown- 

 a low level formation on the shores of Raritan Bay and thence border- 

 ing the Atlantic Ocean from Sandy Hook to the Cape May peninsula,, 

 which it either entirely covers or nearly so, and thence extending 

 up the Delaware River nearly to Trenton. This low lying terrace, 



28 




426 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



which is stated in the text to have an elevation of 30 to 50 feet, ex- 

 tends inland along the courses of the following streams : some 20 

 miles up the Mullica and the Great Egg Harbor Rivers, about 25 

 miles up the Maurice River, and some 10 miles up the Cohansey 

 River. These measurements were made in a direct line from the 

 mouths of the rivers and not by following the winding courses thereof. 

 The surface deposit of this terrace has been named by Prof. R. D. 

 Salisbury the Cape May Formation. He describes it as a 'thin 

 body of loam, sand and gravel of lesser age than any " of the surface 

 formations of the State described in the same paper " except pos- 

 sibly the drift of the last glacial epoch." He further says : "The 

 strict contemporaneity of this formation with the drift of the last 

 glacial epoch is not established, but it is probably at least partly 

 contemporaneous with it, though its later portions may be still 

 younger." 6 To this formation belong the diatom clays noted in the 

 preceding paragraphs as at Bridgeton and Buckshutem. 



Stauroneis Phoenicenteron has never been seen by the writer in 

 any of the numerous specimens of Miocene diatomaceous clays which 

 he has examined during the past ten years, nor has it, so far as he 

 has been able to learn from consultation of the literature relating 

 to it, been recorded by others as occurring in beds of that age. It 

 has, however, a world wide distribution in freshwater deposits of 

 decidedly later age. Ehrenberg, in the Atlas of his Mikrogeologie, 

 notes it in various sands and black, white and gray earths at numer- 

 ous localities (named below) most of which the writer would char- 

 acterize from their position stratigraphically and geographically as 

 decidedly post-miocene and some of them as clearly glacial and 

 post-glacial. Thus Ehrenberg lists this diatom on page 19 of his 

 Atlas as occurring in various earths and at different places, 

 as follows : — in lake mud from Loka, Sweden ; in Bergmehl from 

 Degenfors and Lillhaggsjohn, Sweden, also from Santa Fiora, Italy, 

 and from the south point of Tierra del Fuego, S. A.; in Bliitterkohl 

 from Westerwalde, Prussia; in white earth from Guatemala; in Kiesel- 

 guhr from Andover, Pelham and Wrentham, Massachusetts ; from 

 Ceyssatt, France ; from Down, Mourne Mountains, Ireland ; from 

 New Hampshire and from Earlton, Nova Scotia ; in white marl 

 (Mergee) ; from Farmington, Conn.; in Meteorpapier, from Rauden, 

 Prussia; in tripoli and polishing powder, from Moscow, Russia; 

 and in Weisenpapier, from Freiberg, Saxony. 



Annual Report Geol. Survey of N. J., 1S97, page 



19. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 427 



It has also been found fossil by Prof. C. S. Boyer, in specimens of 

 clays obtained by the writer from tbe upper portions of two well 

 borings, one on the beach at Wildwood, 7 Cape May Co., N. J., and 

 the other at Rock Hall, 8 Md., on the eastern side of Chesapeake 

 Bay opposite the mouth of the Patapsco river. The clays referred to 

 occupied, at Wildwood, the interval between the depths of 79 and 

 181 feet, and at Rock Hall a similar interval between the depths of 

 50 and 130 feet. The clays at both localities contained a mixture 

 of fresh-water and marine diatoms, the numbers of individuals of the 

 fresh-water forms somewhat exceeding those of the marine. That 

 these two deposits are probably synchronous in age appears probable 

 from the similarity of their position next below the surface forma- 

 tion (Cape May formation ?), also from the similarity of the as- 

 sembled forms of diatoms, and from the occurrence in both of a 

 unique diatom, Polymyxus coronalis, L. W. Bailey, not however, found 

 in our examination of the forms in the Dismal Swamp bed. This 

 form has not been heretofore known except as living off the mouths 

 of the Para and Amazon Rivers in South America. That the two 

 deposits are much later than Miocene in age may be inferred from 

 the fact that the one at Rock Hall lies directly upon the Rancocas 

 division of the Cretaceous, the Miocene itself resting at a higher 

 level upon Eocene beds a few miles southward and eastward ; while 

 at Wildwood the top of the great Miocene diatom clay bed occurs 

 nearly 200 feet deeper than the base of the deposit under considera- 

 tion, or at the depth of 370 feet from the surface. The well borings, 

 however, show that apparently the same Miocene clay, but without 

 diatoms, commences at the depth of 294 feet. 



These two deposits containing Polymyxus coronalis and Stauroneis 

 Phoenicenteron, the writer suggests were probably laid down in the 

 deltas of the ancient Delaware and Chesapeake Rivers at the time 

 when the shore line of the Atlantic Coastal plain was many miles 

 eastward of its present position and much of the now submerged 

 portion of the plain was above sea level. 



SUMMARY. 



After considering the position of the Dismal Swamp bed, beneath 

 a low lying terrace on the eastern margin of the Coastal Plain and 

 evidently resting immediately upon fossiliferous Miocene beds which 



T An. Report Geol. Survey of N. J. for 1894, page 165. 

 8 In manuscript, not yet published. 




428 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



can be traced westward along the James River some eighty miles 

 or more to Richmond, Va., and after a careful study and analysis of 

 the contained mollusks and diatoms the conclusion before stated has 

 been reached that both the macroscopic and the microscopic fossils 

 indicate a mechanical mixture of the Miocene and a comparatively 

 recent fauna and flora 9 the Miocene forms having been contributed 

 and brought down by erosion from the broad and somewhat higher 

 and gradually rising Miocene belt to the westward, while the more 

 recent forms lived and were deposited as the bed was laid down in 

 a more recent geological time. 



If we accept the conclusions of all the authorities we have quoted 

 who have studied the Dismal Swamp deposit, we should have to re- 

 fer this bed unequivocally to the Pliocene period. The writer, how- 

 ever, cannot resist inferring from the scantiness of Miocene fossils, 

 which, as already noted, he views as mechanically introduced — 

 from the wide range of many of the Pliocene mollusks, extending 

 down to the present time — from the very decidedly recent aspect of 

 many other shells — and from the even more decidedly recent aspect 

 of some of the diatoms, a more recent date for the bed, and therefore 

 considers that it cannot belong to a period earlier than the latest 

 Pliocene, and that it may, indeed, even belong quite within Pleisto- 

 cene time. 



Specimens of all the mollusks listed from the Dismal Swamp 

 Canal have been presented to the Academy of Natural Sciences by 

 M. Homer, and are now arranged in its paleontological collection, 

 while strewn mounts of the diatoms have been deposited in the cab- 

 inet of the Biological and Microscopical Section by the author. 



9 Diatoms are now generally regarded as belonging to the plant kingdom. 




1898.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 429 



September 6. 

 Professor Henry A. Pilsbry in the Chair. 

 Eight persons present. 



September 13. 



Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman in the Chair. 



Seventeen persons present. 



A paper entitled " New Cretaceous Fossils from an Artesian 

 Weil-Boring at Mount Laurel, N. J.," by C. W. Johnson, was pre- 

 sented for publication. 



September 20. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Fifteen persons present. 



The deaths of Win. H. DeCamp and J. C. H. Crosse, Correspond- 

 ents, were announced. 



A paper entitled " Contributions to a Knowledge of the Hymen- 

 optera of Brazil, No. 5, Vespidse," by Wm. J. Fox, was presented 

 for publication. 



September 27. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Thirty persons present. 



A paper entitled "New Species of Odontostomus from Brazil 

 and Argentina," by Henry A. Pilsbry, was presented for publica- 

 tion. 



Thomas L. Montgomery was elected a member. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



HYALODENDRON NA VALIUM, A NEW GENUS AND SPECIES OF 

 EUPLECTELLID SPONGE. 



BY J. PERCY MOORE. 



The type of this genus and species is one of a small collection of 

 silicious sponges gathered in Japan in 1893 by Mr. Frederick 

 Stearns, of Detroit, Michigan, and sent to the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia for determination. They were collected by 

 native fishermen and brought into Yokohama harbor by the dredge 

 boats. The single specimen of Hyalodendron is the only one which 

 had been reported by the fishermen. Other than this, no data relat- 

 ing to the collection are available. The specimens are accompanied 

 by a set of sketches by a native artist. 



The species represented are, in addition to Hyalodendron, Euplec- 

 tella, anchor spicules of probably E. aspergillum Owen, Hyalonema 

 reflexa Ijima, a fine specimen of this recently described species and 

 Farrea occa (Bowerbank) Carter, an unusually large example. 



HYALODENDRON nov. gen. 



Hyalodendron navalium n. s. 



The general appearance of the type and only specimen is well 

 shown on Plate XIX, reproduced from a sketch by a Japanese artist 

 which accompanied the collection. The sponge was originally 

 about 18 inches high, but is now slightly mutilated at the summit. 

 It presents a firm base, above which rises a slender tapering "body or 

 stalk, ending in a sharp apex, and bearing numerous lateral branches 

 of various sizes, at the bases of which the sponge wall is perforated 

 by large crater-like openings. 



The base is a thin, flat and spreading, encrusting layer, which has 

 evidently conformed itself to the rocky bottom to which the sponge 

 was adherent, some fragments of which are still attached. Its 

 upper surface is uneven, but smooth and without any spines or pro- 

 cesses. It is perforated by three or four small holes. It measures 

 3ix3| inches in diameter, and is from re to £ inch thick. The 

 spicules of this region are mostly slender, more or less curved, 

 pointed diacts of various sizes, most of them being almost fibre-like. 

 They cross one another at various angles and are firmly united into 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 431 



a hard stony mass by a secondary deposit of silica which encrusts 

 and cements them, with the formation of numerous synaptacula 

 (Plate XX, fig. 6). Regular or modified hexacts are occasionally 

 found wedged in interstices, but the appearance is that the demalia 

 and hypodermalia have been worn or decayed away from this region. 



The sponge body or stalk rises from near the centre of the base 

 to a height of 16 inches. Its summit is frayed out and must have 

 been originally at least an inch higher. It is terete and tapers gently 

 and regularly from the base, which is H of an inch in diameter, to 

 the broken apex, f of an inch in diameter. A well developed 

 gastral cavity extends through the sponge body from base to sum- 

 mit, so that it is hollow throughout. Toward the base the walls 

 are thick and firm, owing to secondary incrustations of silica, while 

 above they are much thinner and quite friable. 



The lower 3} inches of the body have a texture and appearance 

 similar to the base, but the transition to the branched upper region 

 is gradual. A very few short blunt spines are borne on the sponge 

 wall, and these partake of the stony hardness and silicious incrus- 

 tations which characterize the walls of this region. Two longer 

 spines, having more of the character of the upper branches, are 

 present, the first 1 inch, and the second 1\ inches above the base. 

 These are respectively I and 4 of an inch long. The former is 

 situated just above the first crater-like opening in the sponge walls. 

 This region of the sponge has a smooth hard surface, and like the 

 basal portion lacks the superficial layers of spicules. 



At about 3£ inches above the base, loose flesh spicules become 

 more plentiful and soon form a thick soft layer, looking very much 

 like a covering of a fine cotton wool paste, or as if the specimen had 

 been dipped into a thick soap lather, which had been allowed to dry 

 on its surface. Coincident with this change in the character of the 

 surface, spinous processes become more numerous and very much 

 longer, but in this specimen the lower spines are imperfect. While 

 in the lower portion (i) of the sponge the processes remain compar- 

 atively simple and unbranched, those which densely cover the upper 

 half of the stalk are often very long (the longest nearly 5 inches 

 and r6 of an inch in diameter at the base), much and complexly 

 branched, sometimes to the third order. Wherever such branches 

 cross they are united by secondary anastomoses, due to the concre- 

 sence of the parenchyma. The principal branches vary in diameter 

 from iV to h of an inch, but two may fuse at their bases and form 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



.a much larger mass. The smaller may be unbranched and reach 

 a length of two inches, but are usually provided with a few small 

 branches. The larger are complexly branched, the secondary 

 branches usually forming angles of about 60° with the principal 

 branches, which latter arise from the central trunk at angles of 80°- 

 '90°. 



While the base and lower part of the stalk are perforated by 

 only a few small pores, the upper part has numerous conspicuous 

 oscula. They perforate the sponge wall between the larger bundles 

 of fibrous spicules, the outer flesh layers rising i of an inch as 7 

 delicate crater-like rims, scarcely thicker than a sheet of paper. 

 The oscula are usually elongated in the longitudinal direction of the 

 sponge, and in that case have a length of 5 to 6 mm., by a width of 

 2 to 3 millimeters. In such the rim flares out somewhat at the 

 sides and contracts at the ends, so that its outer edge has a nearly 

 circular outline. Some few of the oscula are circular at their 

 gastral ends. With regard to their distribution on the sponge 

 walls, the lower-most is situated 2 2 inches above the base, and its 

 rim is thickened like the neighboring sponge walls. Most of them 

 evidently stand in some relation to the larger branches. Three 

 occur at precisely the level where the largest spine arises, and two 

 near each of most of the other large branches. In many cases 

 the oscula lie directly at the bases of the large branches, their 

 orater-like rims being continuous on one side, most often above, 

 with the substance of the branch. Looking through the oscula on 

 to the gastral surface, this is seen to be formed of a fibrous network 

 of spicules, without the woolly surface covering of loose spicules. 



The specimen is a macerated one ; as I was unable to dissect 

 or section it, the arrangement of the chambers and the exact ar- 

 rangement of the spicules could not be determined. The bulk of 

 the skeleton of the sponge wall is, however, chiefly composed of 

 bundles of long fibre like diacts of various sizes and characters. 

 These are disposed in bundles which run longitudinally through the 

 sponge body, but divide and reunite in such a way as to form a net- 

 work, in the meshes of which the oscula open, and which raise more 

 or less evident ridges on both gastral and dermal surfaces. In the 

 upper part of the sponge these diacts remain free, but below they 

 are cemented together as above described. They exist in great 

 variety, but the majority have the form represented in Plate XX, 

 fig. 1, in which the transverse rays are reduced to minute nodules; 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 433 



in others they are much more evident, or may be entirely wanting. 

 Some of this type are straight, but most are more or less curved, 

 those surrounding the oscula being often semicircular. The ends 

 may be simply pointed, or variously enlarged, and either smooth or 

 roughened with minute spines as shown by a few examples in 

 Plate XX, figs. 2, 3, 4 and 5. The dermalia consist of sword shaped 

 hexacts, which are so numerous as to suggest the specific name of the 

 species. Like the diacts, these differ much in the relative develop- 

 ment of the several limbs, any of which may be straight or more or 

 less curved or even sharply bent. Fig. 9 shows the most typical 

 proportions, but the handle may be scarcely longer than the blade 

 or not more than | as long. The cross pieces may be straight or 

 curved, or sharply bent upward (Plate XX, fig. 12). The handle 

 differs most, being slender and pointed, club-shaped or knobbed, and 

 usually sculptured throughout or at the tip only. The points of 

 the other rays are also usually spinose. The sword handles support 

 the skin, and are not furnished with floricomes at their distal ends ; 

 instead they are surrounded by bundles of minute acicular diacts, 

 Plate XX, fig. 7. 



The hypodermalia are regular hexasts, oxy-hexasters, which have 

 the principal rays prolonged (Plate XX, fig. 8), rosettes wdiich vary 

 in the length of the principal rays, as shown by two examples in 

 Plate XX, figs. 14 and 15, and discohexasters of great beauty and 

 symmetry of form. One of the simplest of the latter is shown in 

 Plate XX, fig. 16. This has the principal rays well developed, while 

 each group of terminal rays has sixteen members, the pin-head 

 shaped disks having again 16 marginal teeth. Other discohexasters 

 have the number of terminal rays much greater, or the principal 

 rays shortened, so that all appear to arise from a central sphere. 



The gastralia are also sword-shaped hexacts without bundles of 

 accessory acicular spicules. This sponge would appear to be the 

 type of a new subfamily of Euplectellida?. 



Description of Plates. 



Plate XIX. Hyalodendron navalium n. s. The type specimen as 

 it appeared when first taken, from a drawing by a 

 Japanese artist, x f%. 



Plate XX. Illustrating some of the forms of the spicules of 



Hyalodendron navalium. 

 Fig. 1. One of the smaller simple diacts of the kind which make 

 up the interior skeleton of the spines and processes, and 




434 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



which run in bundles through the sponge walls, x 56. 1 a^ 

 middle region of the same showing a slight enlargement,, 

 and the axial fibre with the two reduced transverse axes. 

 x250. 



Fig. 2. A short, thick diact, with transverse limbs entirely sup- 

 pressed, with slightly enlarged rounded ends, and axial 

 fibre almost gone, x 56. 



Fig. 3. A small, slender and straight diact, with transverse limbs 

 indicated as rounded nodules, with ends pointed and 

 roughened, and axial fibres complete, x 56. 3 a, one of the 

 ends of the same, x 250. 



Fig. 4. A small, slender, curved oxy-diact, with transverse limbs 

 distinctly indicated as four nodules, x 56. 3 a, middle 

 region of the same, x 250. 3 b, one of the ends of the 

 same, x 250. 



Fig. 5. A peculiarly modified end of a large diact, showing a zig- 

 zag course of the axial fibre, x 56. 



Fig. 6. A portion of the sponge base showing the secondary union 

 of spicules by the formation of encrusting and cementing 

 deposits and numerous synaptacula. At a, the encrusting 

 layers are represented as broken away, exhibiting the 

 original diact. x 56. 



Fig. 7. A group from one of the bundles of minute acicular diacts 

 found in the superficial parenchyma about the handles of 

 the sword-shaped hexacts. x 56. 



Fig. 8. An oxy-hexaster in which the axial rays are continued be- 

 yond the place of branching, x 500 



Fig. 9. One of the usual type of sword-shaped hexact. x 56. 9 a, 

 b, c, are respectively enlarged views of the handle, tip of 

 one of the cross pieces and the point, x 250. 



Figs. 10, 11 and 12. Three of the sword-shaped spicules, x 56. 10 

 is short and regular; 11 has the blade bent and the cross 

 rays rough, uneven and thickened ; 12 is straight, with 

 the cross pieces bent sharply upward toward the handle. 



Fig. 13. A small, spiny, regular oxy-hexact. x 56. 13 a, one of the 

 rays enlarged, x 250. 



Fig. 14. A rosette in which the axial rays are continued beyond the 

 disk, and the number of terminal rays is small and con- 

 fined to the margin of the disk, x 250. 



Fig. 15. A rosette with roughened axial or stem rays terminated 

 by disks bearing a close brush of fine terminal rays, x 340. 



Fig. 16. One of the simpler disco-hexasters with distinct stem rays, 

 and sixteen terminal rays in each group. The disks or 

 pin-heads have usually sixteen marginal teeth each. x250. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 435 



ENVIRONMENTAL AND SEXUAL DIMORPHISM IN CREPIDULA. 

 BY EDWIN G. CONKLIN, PH. D. 



I. The genus Crepidula Lam. is represented on our North Atlan- 

 tic Coast by at least three species, viz. : C. fornicata Lam., C. plana 

 Say, and C. convexa Say, while the species C. adunca Sby. and C. 

 navicelloides are abundant on the Pacific Coast of the United States. 



All these species are more or less completely sedentary, and they 

 are usually, though not invariably, carried about by other animals 

 with whom they are messmates and upon whom they are securely 

 fixed. All the larger species of Crepidula are immovably fixed to 

 one spot, e. g., C. fornicata, C. plana, C. navicelloides, while the 

 smaller species C. convexa and C. adunca are able to move about to 

 a limited extent. 



Among these smaller forms the characters of the shell are fairly 

 constant, but among the larger forms it is well-nigh impossible to 

 tell what the normal or usual form is ; this is especially the case 

 with C. plana, where it is a rare thing to find two shells alike. 



Even among the smaller species there are marked local varieties 

 depending upon the immediate environment, e. g., C convexa as 

 found on Illyonassa and Littorina shells is deeply convex and very 

 darkly pigmented. On oyster shells it is very much flatter and 

 lighter in color, and is frequently mottled as shown in Plate XXI, 

 Row 2. This local variety has been considered a distinct species, 

 viz. : C. glauca Say ; its anatomical and embryological characters 

 show, however, that it is not specifically distinct from C. convexa. 

 The same is true of Lea's species, C. acuta, which is merely a local 

 form of C. convexa. 



Among the larger and more sedentary species, C. fornicata and C. 

 plana, the most remarkable differences in the shape of the shells may 

 be observed due to the character of the surface upon which they are 

 attached. " Upon a smooth, plane surface, the shell is regular and 

 unusually broad and flat ; on a convex surface it is deep and highly 

 arched ; on a concave surface it is concave ; on a twisted surface, such 

 as the columella of Neverita, it is twisted ; on an irregular surface, 

 such as a rough stone, it is irregular ; if pressed upon from the sides, 




436 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



the animal and shell become long and narrow ; if growth is limited 

 in front, the shell becomes short and broad ; if limited on all sides, 

 the shell may increase greatly in thickness but remains small in area, 

 completely filling the space in which it is found. In such cases, the 

 lines of growth are crowded close together, and the very edge of the 

 shell may be as thick as any other portion. 



" The cause of these variations is not far to seek ; the shape of the 

 shell is conditioned by the shape and position of the mantle edge; 

 the mantle is moulded over the surface upon which the animal rests; 

 and consequently the shape of the shell comes to correspond in time 

 to any sort of a surface upon which the animal is attached." 1 



Arnold Graf 2 has described a case in which a shell of C.forni- 

 cata was marked by radial folds corresponding to those of a Pecten 

 upon which the Crepidula was attached. I have, myself, repeatedly 

 noticed similar cases. 



More recently, Bradney B. Griffin, 3 has called attention to a Pla- 

 cuanomia shell which was found attached to a valve of Saxidomus, 

 and which was marked by lines and folds exactly coinciding with 

 the concentric markings of the Saxidomus. 



Griffin also remarks that many similar phenomena have been ob- 

 served and commented upon by paleontologists in fossil shells, and 

 he refers particularly to two papers by Keyes 4 on the modifications 

 of Platyceras shells due to the surface of attachment. 



All these modifications are similar to those which I have observed 

 in Crepidula, and are, undoubtedly, due to the causes which have 

 been mentioned. 



Such irregularities of form could scarcely be called dimorphism, 

 though they might properly enough be called environmental poly- 

 morphism. In no case which I have observed is there any evidence 

 that any of these modifications of form are becoming hereditarily 

 fixed, though they may be found in many individuals and have fre- 

 quently been considered of specific value (e. g., Crepidula glauca 

 and C. acida). 



1 Conklin, The Embryology of Crepidula. Jour. Morph., Vol. XIII, 1897. 



2 A. Graf, Adaptation of the shells of Crepidula jomicata to the shell of Pec- 

 ten Jacobeus. Trans. New York Academy of Sciences, April 3, 1896. 



'Griffin, Adaptation of the shell of Placuanomia to that of Saxidomus with 

 remarks on shell adaptation in general. Trans. New York Academy of Sci- 

 ences, Feb li2, 1897. 



4 Keyes, The Sedentary Habits of Platyceras, Am. Jour, of Science, October, 

 1888, and On the Attachment of Platyceras to Palaeocrinoids and its effects in 

 modifying the forms of the Shell, Proc Am. Phil. Soc , Vol. XXV, 1888. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 437 



II. An interesting case of environmental dimorphism to which I 

 wish to call attention is found in a race of dwarfs which is specifi- 

 cally identical with C. plana (Plate XXII, Rows 3 and 4). 



This species is found most abundantly inside dead shells of Never- 

 ita inhabited by the large hermit crab, Eupagurus Bernhardus. In 

 this position individuals grow to a large size, mature females fre- 

 quently reaching a length of 2 inches and a breadth of H inches. 

 On the other hand, the dwarfs referred to are found within dead 

 shells of Illyonassa or Littorina inhabited by the little hermit, Eupa- 

 gurus longicarpus, and never exceed f inch in length by f in breadth, 

 i. e., they are about J the linear dimensions of the larger form. I 

 removed from their shells a large number of individuals of both the 

 common and the dwarfed forms, and estimated the volume of the 

 body in the following way : The individuals were first placed on 

 blotting paper to remove any excess of water, and then a given 

 number were dropped into a known volume of water in a finely gradu- 

 ated tube. In this way the average body volume could be deter- 

 mined with sufficient accuracy. The results of very many such 

 measurements in which mature females of all sizes were taken with- 

 out any conscious selection of large or small individuals show that 

 the average body volume of a mature female of G. plana is f cc. 

 while the average volume of a mature female of the dwarf variety is 

 sV cc, i.e., the average body volume of the typical form is about 

 thirteen times that of the dwarf. This disproportion in size would 

 be much greater if comparison were made between the largest indi- 

 viduals obtainable in the two classes since the dwarfs are much more 

 uniform in size than the type forms. 



This difference in size is not due merely to differences in the age 

 of individuals compared, since only sexually mature females were 

 chosen for purposes of measurement; all the individuals measured 

 were carrying egg masses, and unless we assume that sexual matur- 

 ity appears much earlier in the dwarfs than in the giants, we must 

 conclude that they were of approximately the same age. A careful 

 study of the shells of the dwarfs and giants also strengthens the view 

 that the former are, on the whole, as old as the latter ; for while the 

 dwarf shells are much smaller and more delicate than those of the 

 giants, they are, in no sense, immature in shape or character; the 

 lines of growth are closely crowded together, the margin of the shell 

 is frequently thickened, and its general shape differs from that of an 

 immature shell. 




438 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



The dwarfs are perfectly formed in all respects, and all organs of 

 the body seem to be reduced in size in about the same proportion. 5 

 Strangely enough, however, the cells composing the various organs 

 of the dwarfs are not reduced in size. It must follow, therefore, that 

 a smaller number of cells are present in the various organs and also 

 in the entire body of the dwarf than in the giant. It is an almost 

 impossible task to count the actual number of cells present, even in 

 a very small organ. I have, however, been able to count the num- 

 ber of cells in a cross section of the rectum, and while the size of the 

 cells here, as everywhere, is the same in both varieties, the number 

 of the cells in the sections is greater in the giants than in the dwarfs. 

 Of all the cells of the body the ova are most readily enumerated ; 

 they are laid in capsules which can be easily counted, and each of 

 which contains a nearly constant number of eggs. Oft repeated ob- 

 servations show that, without exception, the fertilized but unseg- 

 mented eggs of the dwarfs are of exactly the same size as those of 

 the giants, but are very much fewer in number ; e. g., the following 

 table of averages has been obtained from a large number of obser- 

 vations : — 



Diam. of egg. No. of caps. Eggs in caps. Total No. 

 C. plana (type) .136 mm. 51 176 9,000 



C. plana (dwarf). 136 mm. 48 64 3,070 



It is notable that the number of capsules formed is nearly the 

 same in the two varieties, though there is a great difference in the 

 number of eggs inclosed in each capsule. 



In Crepidula, therefore, the cell size is constant, and variations in 

 the size of the body are due to variations in the number of cells 

 present. 



This conclusion leads naturally to an inquiry as to the cause of 

 the smaller number of cells, and hence the smaller size of the body 

 of the dwarfs as compared with the giants. In this connection it 

 will be remembered that Semper 6 long ago observed that the pond 



5 It is worthy of note that certain organs, particularly the gill filaments, are 

 reduced in number in the smaller individuals but not in size, e. g., the num- 

 bers of gill filaments in three different individuals were as follows: — 



Mature female . . Vol. of body, .75 cc, Gill filaments, 204. 

 Immature female . Vol. of body, .05 cc, Gill filaments, 53. 

 Dwarf female . . Vol. of body, .05 cc, Gill filaments, 58. 



6 Semper, Ueber die Wachsthumsbedingungen der Linnattss tagnalis. Arb. 

 aus dem. Zool. Zoot. Inst. Wurzburg, Vol. 1, 1874, also Animal Life as af- 

 fected by the Natural Conditions of Existence, 1879. 




1 898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 439 



snail (Limncea gtagnaHx) remained small when grown in a small 

 quantity of water, while the larger the quantity of water, up to 4,000 

 or 5,000 cc, the larger the snails reared in it. As the result of nu- 

 merous experiments, Semper concluded that this difference in size 

 was not due to differences in the quantity of food, inorganic salts or 

 oxygen obtainable, and he suggested that some unknown substance 

 must be present in the water which acts as a stimulus to growth 

 without actually contributing to it. 



More recently, DeVarigny 7 has repeated these observations, and 

 concludes, as the result of several experiments, that the relative vol- 

 ume of the water, in which the snails are grown, is much less import- 

 ant than the relative amount of surface exposed. He holds that the 

 larger the surface the more exercise the animals are able to take, 

 and, therefore, the larger they become. His results show that Sem- 

 per's conclusions are untenable, but they by no means establish his 

 own. It is certainly not generally true, as he holds, that physiolog- 

 ical or mechanical impedimenta to movement result in dwarfing. 

 The larger forms of C. plana are as immovably fixed as the dwarfs ; 

 in this case, therefore, movement can have nothing to do with body- 

 size. 



In Crepidula, the dwarfed form is unquestionably correlated with 

 the smaller size of the shell in which it has found lodgement. It is 

 possible that the diminished size is due to diminished supply of food 

 or oxygen ; however, the following observation is opposed to this 

 view : I have never found more than one mature female in a shell 

 inhabited by the small hermit, whereas, from four to eight very 

 large individuals may be found in the shell of a large hermit ; under 

 these circumstances, it seems very improbable that the difference in 

 size is due to differences in the amount of food or oxygen obtainable. 

 The most natural interpretation is that the dwarfing is due to pres- 

 sure which limits growth in various directions ; though it must be 

 confessed that the shell of the dwarf remains thin and delicate, 

 whereas, the shells of the common form which are limited in growth 

 by surrounding hard parts grow thick and have a distorted appear- 

 ance. The fact, also, that the males of all these species, and espe- 

 cially of G plana, remain very much smaller than the females (as is 

 pointed out in Section III), speaks against the view that the smaller 

 size is due to a diminution of food or oxygen, since the males have 



7 DeVarigny, Experimental Evolution, 1891. 




440 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



the same opportunities in this regard as the much larger females ; 

 and the fact that the males are in no case limited for space in which 

 to grow, as are the females, makes against the view that their small 

 size, as compared with the females, is due to pressure. On the whole, 

 it seems to me, that some factor, other than those mentioned, is in- 

 volved. 



Whatever the cause of the dwarfed form, it will be noted that in 

 Crepidula it operates by stopping cell-growth and division, and the 

 real causes of so fundamental a phenomenon are worthy of a more 

 extended study than I have, as yet, been able to devote to it. 



There is good evidence that these dwarfs are not a permanent va- 

 riety or race. In the first place there are no anatomical differences 

 between the two varieties save size only; secondly, the eggs, em- 

 bryos and larva? of the two cannot be distinguished • thirdly, there 

 is evidence that the dwarfs do not produce enough eggs to continue 

 the variety in its present numbers, for since the type and rate of de- 

 velopment are the same in the two varieties, it is probable that rel- 

 atively no more individuals will come to maturity in the one case 

 than in the other, and yet every giant female produces three times 

 as many ova as are produced by a dwarf; the relative number of 

 these two varieties remains practically constant from year to year, 

 and, therefore, I think it must follow that the ranks of the dwarfs 

 are continually recruited from the descendants of the giants. Both 

 live together on the same beach under about the same conditions of 

 food, temperature and water, the embryonic and larval development 

 of both forms are identical, and it seems probable that the adults of 

 both would be the same if one was not forced by the smaller quarters 

 which it inhabits to remain smaller than the other. But what is 

 still more conclusive is the following observation : A few specimens 

 were found which showed by the shape and character of their shells 

 that at one time they had been typical dwarfs; afterward, having 

 been detached, they obtained a new foothold on a larger surface, 

 and their shells increased in size, the new portions of the shell be- 

 coming shaped so as to fit the surface upon which they had found a 

 new home. In every such shell one can recognize both the dwarf 

 and the normal forms. The dwarfs are what they are by reason of 

 external conditions, and not because of inheritance ; they are, in 

 short, a physiological and not a morphological variety. In such a 

 case the shape and size of the body, as well as the number of cells 

 in the entire organism, are greatly modified by the direct action of 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



environment. But in this case, as in that of the irregular shells 

 mentioned above, I have found no evidence that these modifications 

 have become in the least degree heritable. 



III. Marked as is the environmental dimorphism in C. plana, the 

 sexual dimorphism is even greater. The average body volume of a 

 mature male of this species is about 55 cc, while the volume of an 

 adult female is about I cc. ; that is, the average female is almost 15 

 times as large as the average male. In all species of Crepidula the 

 males are smaller than the females, though the difference in size is 

 greatest in C. plana. The following table gives the actual and rel- 

 ative sizes of males and females of the different species : — 



c . Actual vol. of bodv. 



S l 3ecies Male. Female 



C. plana, . . .046 cc. ;667 cc. 



. C. adunca, . .025 cc. .208 cc. 



C. convexa, . .01 cc. .05 cc. 



C.fomicata, . 1.25 cc. 1.6 cc. 1. 1.34 



These averages are derived from the measurement of at least 20 ma- 

 ture individuals of each sex. 



In the case of the males as in that of the dwarfs, the smaller size 

 of the body is due to the smaller number of cells present rather than 

 to the smaller size of the cells. Careful measurements of cells of 

 the intestine, stomach, liver, kidney, muscles of foot, epithelium of 

 gill chamber, and epithelium of gill filaments show that the cell size 

 remains the same in the male as in the female. Whatever the ulti- 

 mate cause of the smaller size of the males may be, it operates in 

 this case as in that of the dwarfs by causing a cessation of cell growth 

 and division. 



In all these species the males are almost invariably found mounted 

 upon the shells of the females, and in plana, adunca and convexa 

 they are able to move about more or less freely, but the full-sized 

 males of fomicata are as immovably fixed to one spot as are the fe- 

 males. In such cases sexual union could take place only between 

 individuals attached near to each other. On muddy bottoms C.for- 

 nicata has the habit of piling together, one individual on top of 

 another, until there may be as many as ten ortwelve individuals in 

 a single chain ; such chains are often found in which there is not a 

 single male, and yet I have never found an unfertilized female. 

 Again, perfectly isolated females with large numbers of fertilized 



29 




442 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



eggs are of frequent occurrence. In such cases I was, for a long 

 time, puzzled to know how the eggs came to be fertilized. I after- 

 ward found by a study of serial sections that in the females of 

 all the species there is a seminal receptacle in the form of a con- 

 voluted tubule which opens into the oviduct, and in all mature 

 individuals this is filled with spermatozoa. These spermatozoa are 

 attached by their apices to the walls of the receptacle ; it is prob- 

 able that they receive nutriment from these walls just as they do in 

 the seminiferous tubules of the male, and that they can live indefi- 

 nitely in this position. Since there are myriads of these spermato- 

 zoa in the receptacle, and since they are carefully conserved, as is 

 shown by the facts that polyspermy rarely, if ever, occurs, and that 

 no superfluous spermatozoa are found in the egg capsules or oviduct, 

 it might well be that one sexual union would suffice for a life time. 

 In some such way as this must be explained the fact that perfectly 

 isolated females of C. fomicata lay eggs which are always fertilized, 

 though both the full grown males and females of this species are 

 perfectly sedentary. 



In the case of the other species named, the males are never im- 

 movably fixed to one spot, they are able to move about slowly upon 

 the surface of attachment, and, if detached, can obtain a new 

 foothold; their shells, also, are not distorted so as to fit irregular 

 surfaces as is the case with the females. In all cases locomotion is 

 limited to small individuals. The young of all species and of both 

 sexes crawl about freely and rapidly. In G. eonvexa individuals of 

 both sexes retain this power to a limited extent, but the large fe- 

 males of adunca, navicelloides and plana become firmly fixed, whereas 

 the males of these species remain relatively small and retain, to a 

 certain extent, their power of locomotion. The larger any individ- 

 ual becomes, the more limited are its powers of movement, and it is 

 evidently in relation to this fact that the males are so much smaller 

 than the females ; Jbecause of this marked sexual dimorphism, the 

 large and sedentary females may be repeatedly, or, in C. fomicata, 

 perhaps once for all, visited and fertilized by the smaller and motile 

 males. 



In C. plana the shell of the male is more nearly round than that 

 of the female, and is usually sharply pointed at the apex ; it is 

 thicker than an immature shell, the edges being thickened and the 

 lines of growth crowded together as is the case with the dwarfs. These 

 characters are so constant that it is usually easy to distinguish a 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 443 



male from an immature female, as is shown in Plate XXIII, where 

 immature individuals are shown in the first row, mature males in 

 the second, aud an immature female at the right end of the third 

 row. To the left of this immature female are shown a number of 

 individuals in which the older part of the shell has the male char- 

 acters, while the newer part has those of the female. " In such ani- 

 mals the penis is usually very small, and, in some cases, has almost 

 entirely disappeared. Quite a complete series of stages in the de- 

 generation of this organ was observed, from the fully-formed organ 

 on the one hand, to a minute papilla on the other. Sections of such 

 animals show that neither male nor female sexual cells are produced 

 at this time. The evidence seems to favor the view that we have, 

 in these cases, an example of proterandric hermaphroditism, but I am 

 not able to assert that this is really the case, although I have spent 

 much time in attempting to decide it." 8 Further, I have not stud- 

 ied a sufficient number of cases to be able to decide whether this is 

 a regularly occurring phenomenon or only an unusual and abnor- 

 mal approach to hermaphroditism. 



Explanation of Plates. 



The plates are from photographs of actual specimens, and are re- 

 duced about one-third in size. 



Plate XXI. Row 1. C. convexa from exterior of Illyonassa. The 

 shells are deeply pigmented and highly arched ; 

 3d to 6th show males attached. 



Row 2. C. convexa (C. glauca Say) from flat sur- 

 faces, some from exterior of oyster shells. The 

 shells are unusually flat and broad, and those 

 from the oyster shells are light in color and mot- 

 tled with brown spots. 



Row 3. First five shells are C. adunca, all with 

 males attached. Remainder of row and all of 



Row 4. C. navicelloides ; many of the shells irregu- 

 lar in shape. 



Row 5. C.fornicata; various sizes, shapes and colors. 



Plate XXII. All shells on this plate are of C. plana. 



Row 1. Interior views of shells of very different 



shapes, due to the characters of the surfaces of 



attachment. 

 Row 2. Exterior views of same. 



8 Embryology of Crepidula, Jour. Morph., Vol. XIII. 




444 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1898. 



Row 3. Exterior views of dwarfs (mature females) 

 from interior of Illyonassa and Littorina shells 

 inhabited by the small hermit crab. 



Row 4. Interior views of same. Last five shells in 

 row males and immature forma of dwarfs. 



Plate XXIII. All shells shown are those of C. plana. 



Row 1. Immature forms; not differentiated sexu- 



ally- 

 Row 2. Mature males. 

 Row 3. First six, mature males ; seventh to tenth, 



forms intermediate between males and females; 



last shell in row immature female. 

 Row 4. Mature females ; a few with males attached. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 445 



CONTRIBUTIONS TO A KNOWLEDGE OF THE HYMENOPTERA OF 

 BRAZIL, NO. 5.- VESPLDJE. 



BY WILLIAM J. FOX. 



This paper relates solely to the social wasps, which are, in the 

 present author's opinion, not only distinct in their habits from the 

 solitary species, but differ also in having the middle tibiae always 

 with two spurs. 



In stating the sex of a specimen throughout this paper I have not 

 been quite sure whether certain specimens represented females or 

 workers, and therefore, when the sex represented is other than the 

 male, I have written female, or worker. 



I understand it is the intention of Mr. Herbert Smith to contrib- 

 ute a memoir on the nests of these insects of which he has a large 

 number. These are at present stored away in boxes and are 

 unavailable. Therefore, for the descriptions of the nests of the new 

 and other species noted herein those interested must await Mr. 

 Smith's return from South America where he expects to pass two 

 years collecting natural history specimens. 



Mischocyttarus labiatus Fabr. 



Rio de Janeiro, October, November; Mararu, April; Chapada, 

 March, April; Uacarizal, February; Pedra Branca, April; San- 

 tarem. About 50 specimens. 



Apoica pallida Oliv. 



Rio de Janeiro, November ; Chapada, January, April, October; 

 Santarem. Fifteen specimens. 



This is quite a variable species the body color running from 

 entirely whitish-yellow to dark brown. The following forms are in 

 the collection : 



1. Entirely yellowish-white; antennae white at tip; costal cell 

 clear, wings whitish. 



2. Yellowish-white, with vertex, dorsulum in part, sutures of 

 thorax, legs, petiole at base, and apical margins of segments obscurely, 

 pale brown ; costal cell a little ferruginous, wings whitish. 



3. Same as No. 2, but with dorsulum entirely brown, which color 

 is well spread out over the entire thorax but in a very pale tint ; 




446 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



abdomen whitish above; costal cell quite ferruginous, the wings 

 not whitish, dark subhyaline. 



4. Head, thorax, legs and petiole quite brown, the cheeks, prono- 

 tum laterally, postscutellum, middle segment apically, and body of 

 abdomen pale yellowish ; wings colored as in No. 3. 



5. Entirely brown ; posterior margin of pronotum, two spots on 

 scutellum and postscutellum, apical margin of segments 1-5, and 

 greater part of sixth, yellowish wings as in No. 3. (=arborea f). 



6. Dark brown, the thorax above black ; first abdominal segment 

 narrowly yellow at apex ; wings as in No. 3 ; size large. 



It is quite probable that A. virginea and arborea are only varieties- 

 of A. pallida. 



Synoeca testacea Sauss. 



Mararu, April, May ; Santarem. Eight specimens. 

 Synoeca surinama Linne. 



A large series from Chapada, January to April, October ; Uacari- 

 zal, February ; Rio de Janeiro, November; Santarem. 



Synoeca cyanea Pabr. 



Rio de Janeiro, November. Two specimens. 



Synoeca azurea Sauss. 



One specimen. Chapada, December. In addition to the bluer 

 color and prominent tubercles of petioles this species is peculiar for 

 its small head which is barely as wide as thorax. 



The collection also contains a single $ specimen with the second 

 submarginal cell greatly narrowed above, the distance between the 

 first and second transverso-cubital veins at the top less than that 

 between the recurrent veins on the cubital vein. The head is about 

 as wide as thorax. Otherwise it is very close to surinama. 



Polistes Ferreri Sauss. 



A large series from Corumba, Chapada, Santarem and Rio de 

 Janeiro. 



Polistes bicolor Lep. 



Two specimens. Santarem. 

 Polistes versicolor Oliv. 



About 75 specimens. Benevedes, July ; Mararu, April ; Rio de 

 Janeiro, October and November ; Chapada, April and October ; 

 Santarem. The maculation of abdomen varies from a simple yellow 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 447 



band at apex of first segment to forms with the abdomen almost 

 entirely yellow. 



Polistes carnifex Fabr. 



Chapada, October, December, January ; Rio de Janeiro, Novem- 

 ber ; Corumbd, April ; Santarem. Nine specimens. 



Polistes ruficornis Sauss. 



Chapada, February to April, June. About 35 specimens. The 

 amount of red and black on thorax is variable. The prothorax and 

 scutellum may be either color. 



Polistes cinerascens Sauss. 



Chapada, February, March, June ; Rio de Janeiro, November. 

 Ten specimens. 



Polistes pacificus Fabr. 



Mararu, April ; Santarem. Six specimens. 

 Polistes acteon Hal. 



One specimen. Rio de Janeiro, November. 

 Polistes subsericeus Sauss. 



Sixteen specimens. Chapada, March and December. 

 Polistes thoracicus n. sp. 



Brick red; sides of middle segment, metapleura and mesopleuroe 

 sometimes, and four hind coxae, more or less, black ; wings yellow- 

 ish. The following parts are obscurely yellow, or of a paler tint 

 than most of body : head in front, cheeks, hind margin of pronotum, 

 teguhe, scutellum, postscutellum, apical margin of segment 1 and 2, 

 and 3-6 entirely yellow. 



9 . — Clypeus longer than broad, obtusely angular anteriorly ; 

 space between hind ocelli about equal to half that between them and 

 eyes, the latter separated from base of mandibles by a distance equal 

 to the fourth, fifth and half of sixth joints of antenna?; pronotum 

 strongly margined ; dorsulum nearly one-quarter longer than broad ; 

 middle segment with indistinct transverse striations. Length 16- 

 17 mm. 



$ . — Antennae longer ; striation of middle segment coarser. 



Chapada, February to April. Related to P. carnifex, but is much 

 smaller, with black sides of thorax, comparatively longer clypeus. 

 It is larger than P. ruficornis, of which it might be taken for a 

 variety, and the clypeus is much longer. The coloration is quite 

 constant in the six specimens before me. 




4-18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Polistes geminatus n. sp. 



Head, dorsulum and abdomen black ; mouth, antenna? beneath 

 basally, thorax on sides and beneath, legs and base of first segment, 

 reddish-brown ; inner and posterior orbits, clypeus at sides and 

 apically, inner margin of mandibles, scape beneath, line on pronotum 

 anteriorly and posteriorly, tegulse, line on anterior part ofscutellum 

 and postscutellum, two broad stripes on middle segment, a small 

 spot near base on each side, spot at sides of scutella, and at top of 

 metapleurse, stripe on four hind coxa?, apex of middle segment, two 

 spots on first segment of abdomen, its posterior margin, and posterior 

 margin of segments 2 and 3, or 2-4, narrowly, yellow ; wings light 

 fuso-hyaline, costal cell somewhat yellowish ; femora sometimes 

 striped with yellow. 



9 . — Clypeus about as broad as long, obtusely angular anteriorly, 

 rather distinctly punctured ; space between hind ocelli equal to 

 nearly two -thirds of that between them and eyes, the space between 

 the latter and base of mandibles not equal to the width of the latter ; 

 pronotum margined ; dorsulum more than one-quarter longer than 

 broad. Length 14 mm. 



Var. — Clypeus entirely black ; femora striped with yellow ; lateral 

 spot of first segment coalescing with the yellow at apex. Length 

 13 mm. 



Chapada, March. Two specimens. Resembles P. cinerascens, but 

 differs in color of wings. In the bi-spotted first segment it seems to 

 have some resemblance to P. biguttahis, but that species is quite 

 differently colored, judging from the description. 



Polybia fulvofasciata DeG. 



Chapada, January, April, September to December. Forty-three 

 specimens. 



Polybia fasciata Lep. 



Chapada, February, March, June, September, October. About 

 one hundred specimens. 



Leipomeles lamellaria Mobius is colored precisely as P. fasciata 

 judging from the description. Are they perhaps identical? P. 

 fasciata is a Polybia, however. 



Polybia fastidiosuscula Sauss. 



Over 100 specimens. Chapada, April, September to November. 



Polybia surinamensis Sauss. 



Rio de Janeiro (July, November); Mararu (April); Santarem. 

 Sixteen specimens. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 449 



Polybia occidentalis Oliv. (==pygmcea Fabr.). 



About 250 specimens of typical occidentalis, and over 60 represent- 

 ing pygmcea Fabr., which I regard as a variety of this species. The 

 large series before me shows that the two supposed species intergrade. 

 Both forms seem to occur in the same localities simultaneously. 

 From Chapada, Santarem and Rio de Janeiro, March, April, Sept- 

 ember, October. 



Quite as large a series of individuals, having the head reddish, is 

 also represented. This form is not distinct as a species from occi- 

 dentalis. Occurs in the same regions and at same time as typical 

 occidentalis. 



Polybia oecodoma Sauss. 



Rio de Janeiro and Chapada in November. Six examples. 



Polybia scutellaris White. 



Chapada, March, October, December. Nearly 100 specimens, of 

 which 90 per cent., represent a variety with the head and part of 

 thorax above, rusty-red. 



Polybia pumila Sauss. 



About 100 specimens from Chapada and Sebastian March, April, 

 October, November. 



Polybia pediculata Sauss. 



Chapada, October ; Para, June ; Santarem. Over 60 examples. 



Polybia rejecta Fabr. 



Mararu, April ; Chapada, January, April, September, October ; 

 Santarem ; Sebastise, October. About 50 specimens, whose colora- 

 tion is quite constant. 



P. bicolor Smith is evidently synonymous with rejecta. 



Polybia Jurinei Sauss. 



Over 60 examples, not showing any variation of color. Chapada, 

 January, September, December; Rio de Janeiro, November; Mar- 

 aru, April ; Santarem. 



Polybia metathoracica Sauss. 



Chapada and Mararu (April) ; Santarem. Three specimens of 

 the typical form. 



Polybia bifasciata Sauss. 



Two specimens from Santarem. 




450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1898. 



Polybia rufidens Sauss. 



Two specimens. Corumba (April) ; Chapada (May). 

 Polybia atra Oliv. 



Chapada, January, March-June, August, December; Santarem. 

 About 250 examples. 



Polybia dimidiata Oliv. 



Chapada, January, April, October to December. Thirty-four 

 specimens. 



Polybia socialis Sauss. 



A single specimen from Rio de Janeiro, November. 

 Polybia sylveirse Sauss. 



Three specimens, Rio de Janeiro, November. P. enxius Smith 

 seems to be identical with sylveirce. 



Polybia pallipes Oliv. 



The series before me shows that in coloration this species merges 

 from the form figured by Saussure on PI. XXV (fig. 2) of his work, 

 abdomen brownish or blackish, into the species known as fulvo- 

 fasciata DeGeer. The latter has the wings quite yellow, however, 

 whereas in pallipes they are subhyaline. 



About 45 specimens. Chapada, January, March, April, Sept- 

 ember, October, December; Corumba, April, May ; Pedra Branca, 

 April ; Rio de Janeiro, November ; Santarem, February. 



Polybia vespiceps Sauss. 



Sebastia?, October ; Chapada. About 60 specimens. 

 Polybia liliacea Sauss. 



A large series of this species from Chapada, March, April, Sept- 

 ember, October, December; Mararu, April ; Santarem. 

 Polybia angulata Fabr. 



Eleven specimens from Santarem. 



Polybia carbonaria Sauss. 



There is a single male in the collection from Rio de Janeiro, Nov- 

 ember, which I doubtfully refer to this species. Saussure described 

 the female only. 



Polybia angulicallis Spin. 



Two specimens. Santarem. 

 Polybia lugubris Sauss. 



Rio de Janeiro, November. One specimen. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 451 



Polybia flavicans Fabr. (=testaeea Fabr.). 



Mararu, April ; Santarem. Eighteen specimens. 

 Polybia paraensis Sauss. 



Same localities as flavicans. Five specimens. 

 Polybia chrysothorax Licbt. 



Chapada, January-April, October; Mararu, April; Santarem. 

 About 40 specimens. 



Polybia sericea Oliv. 



Nearly 200 specimens from various localities. The coloration 

 seems quite constant, no specimens of the variety with " abdomen 

 brunatre," mentioned by Saussure, being present. 



Polybia mexicana Sauss. • 



Four specimens from Rio de Janeiro in November, are perhaps 

 this species, as near as can be judged from the description. The legs 

 are apparently yellower and the body darker than in mexicana, 

 which species, how 7 ever, is quite variable according to Saussure. 



Polybia infernalis Sauss. 



Santarem. • Two specimens. One has quite distinct abdominal 

 fascise. 

 Polybia emaciata Luc. 



Twelve specimens from Mararu, April, and Santarem, agree with 

 the description of this species, except that the dark spot on vertex is 

 wanting. 



Polybia sedula Sauss. 



Over 75 specimens. Chapada, March, September, October ; 

 Mararu, April ; Sebastian. 



Polybia latior n. sp. 



9 or ^ . — Black, with a silky pile; legs brownish the four hind 

 coxse striped with yellow, and a narrow yellow stripe on post- 

 scutellum. 



Clypeus distinctly broader than long with tolerably strong punct- 

 ures ; ocelli in an equilateral triangle, the space between hind pair 

 equal to considerably more than half that between them and eyes ; 

 latter almost reaching mandibles; flagellum subclavate, the first 

 joint about as long as two following united ; pronotum short, finely 

 margined; dorsulum fully one-quarter longer than broad; middle 

 segment short, not longer than scutellum and postscutellum, sulcate 




452 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



down middle, subconcave ; petiole of abdomen slender, but broadened 

 from beyond middle, so tbat it becomes somewhat infundibuliform, 

 in length longer than hind femur ; remainder of abdomen ovate ; 

 wings brownish basally and in the costal cell, otherwise dark sub- 

 hyaline, with nervures and stigma brownish ; third submarginal 

 cell rhomboidal, higher than long, its outer nervure strongly sinuate. 

 Length 12-13 mm. 



Chapada, October. Three specimens. Belongs apparently to 

 Saussure's IV Division My., and is allied to P. constructor. Viewed 

 from above the shape of petiole greatly resembles the lower part of 

 a horse's fore leg seen from the front, the swollen portion represent- 

 ing the hoof. 



Polybia flavitincta n. sp. 



9 or $ . — Black, with a dense silky,brown pile ; flagellum, tegulse 

 and legs from tip of femora, ferruginous brown ; a narrow line on 

 pronotum posteriorly, and at apex of petiole, yellowish. 



Clypeus a little broader than long, with a few large punctures 

 anteriorly ; ocelli in a high triangle, in consequence of the hind pair 

 being much closer than they are to the anterior one ; flagellum sub- 

 clavate, the first joint a little longer than the two following united ; 

 eyes almost reaching the mandibles ; pronotum tolerably well devel- 

 oped above, not margined or ridged ; dorsulum broad and short, its 

 length barely one-fifth greater than its width ; middle segment short, 

 almost perpendicular, strongly sulcate down middle, and with dis- 

 tinct separated punctures, and silvery pile apically ; petiole of 

 abdomen elongate, about as long as hind femur, slender basally and 

 suddenly broadened beyond middle, so that it presents an infundi- 

 bulate appearance; remainder of abdomen short-ovate; superior 

 wings strongly yellowish anteriorly, otherwise the wings dark sub- 

 hyaline, nervures and stigma yellowish ; second submarginal cell 

 quite triangular ; third submarginal rhomboidal, higher than long, 

 distinctly narrowed above, its outer nervure a little curved near the 

 top. Length 14 mm. 



Santarem. Two specimens. Allied to P. lugubris. In colora- 

 tion it more closely resembles P. angulicallis, but the prothorax is 

 not produced as in that species. 



Polybia tinctipennis n. sp. 



9 or $.— Black, with brownish silky pile; legs and tegula? 

 brown ; posterior margins of pronotum and petiole with an obscure 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 453 



narrow, yellow line ; superior wings fuscous on basal two-thirds, 

 especially in costal cell with dark nervures, the apical third whitish- 

 yellow, with yellowish nervures and stigma. 



Clypeus subcordate, nearly as broad as long, with large scattered 

 punctures throughout ; ocelli forming an almost equilateral triangle, 

 the space between hind pair, however, slightly less than that sepa- 

 rating them from the anterior one, and not nearly equal to half the 

 distance between them and eyes ; the latter not reaching base of 

 mandibles, being separated from them at their closest proximity by 

 a distance nearly equalling the length of fourth antennal joint; 

 pronotum short, finely margined or carinated at the sides anteriorly, 

 but not medially ; dorsulum at least one-quarter longer than broad ; 

 scutellum, postscutellum and metathorax strongly punctured, all 

 three more or less sulcate down middle, especially the middle 

 segment which has the furrow much broadened apically ; sides of 

 thorax strongly punctured ; petiole, distinctly punctured, shorter if 

 anything than hind femur, somewhat clavate, being gradually 

 broadened from before the middle, the basal third stem-like; remain- 

 der of abdomen cordate ; second submarginal cell short, much higher 

 than long aind narrowed above ; third submarginal rhomboidal, 

 higher than long, somewhat narrowed above, the outer nervure 

 sinuate. Length 13 mm. 



Chapada, September and December. Two specimens. Belongs 

 to Saussure's IV Division My. Its resemblance to P. socialis is only 

 superficial. The shape of petiole is nearly as in P. lugubris, but is 

 more slender. 



Polybia chapadae n. sp. 



9 or £. — Ferruginous; body of abdomen, sides of prothorax and 

 niesopleurpe sometimes darker; two broad oblique marks uniting in 

 V-form on front, and the occiput black ; antennae dark above ; 

 clypeus, mandibles except tips, inner and posterior orbits,two oblique 

 lines on vertex behind ocelli, lines on pronotum anteriorly and pos- 

 teriorly, two rather indistinct lines on dorsulum, scutellum and post- 

 scutellum anteriorly, tegulse, spot at top of meso- and metapleura?, 

 two broad lines on middle segment, four anterior coxse beneath, 

 stripe on hind coxse, spot at tip of all femora, (sometimes obscure), 

 and apical margin of abdominal segments 1-3 or 1-6, or the first 

 only, yellowish. 



Clypeus about as broad as long, not distinctly punctured ; ocelli 

 forming an equilateral triangle, the space between hind pair a little 




454 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



less than that between them and eyes ; the latter almost reaching 

 mandibles ; first joint of flagellum as long as the second, third and 

 most of fourth ; pronotum short, margined ; dorsulum more than 

 one-quarter longer than broad ; middle segment broadly channelled, 

 down middle almost concave ; petiole of abdomen about as long as 

 hind femur, elongate, tolerably slender, broadened gradually and 

 gently from beyond middle; remainder of abdomen ovate; wings 

 dark subhyaline, faintly yellowish in the costal cell ; nervures and 

 stigma brownish ; third submarginal higher than long, the outer 

 nervure curved, and just before its junction with the cubital nervure, 

 angulate. Length 15 mm. 



Chapada, February. Three examples. Belongs to Saussure's V, 

 Division Kappa, and is apparently allied to P. raphigastra. The 

 petiole is more broadened at apex than in P. surinamensis, and the 

 body quite robust. 

 Polybia gorytoides n. sp. 



9 or $ . — Blackish or dark brown ; head, except a broad trans- 

 verse stripe on vertex, thorax entirely on sides and beneath, pronotum 

 except an oblique stripe on each side, two stripes on dorsulum, 

 scutellum and postscutellum except posterior margins, middle seg- 

 ment except in longitudinal furrow, legs (tarsi darker), abdomen 

 entirely beneath, first dorsal segment at sides and apex, apical mar- 

 gin of dorsals 2-6, yellow, that on second dorsal extending to base 

 at sides. 



Clypeus broader than long, with a few large punctures, its fore 

 margin sharply angular ; ocelli forming a rather high triangle, the 

 space between hind pair less than that between them and anterior one, 

 and not equal to half the distance between them and eyes ; the latter 

 almost reaching base of mandibles ; vertex distinctly punctured ; 

 flagellum clavate, the first joint about as long as the two following 

 united ; pronotum indistinctly margined ; dorsulum punctured, but 

 not very strongly, about one-fifth longer than broad ; middle segment 

 broadly furrowed, rather flat, and sloping evenly from base to apex ; 

 first abdominal segment subcampanulate, much shorter than hind 

 femur, not much longer than first hind tarsal joint; remainder of 

 abdomen subpyriform, very broad at base, acute at apex ; wings sub- 

 hyaline, very faintly yellowish along costa ; nervures and stigma 

 yellowish ; third submarginal cell longer than high, twice as long, 

 or more, than second, a little narrowed above, the outer nervure 

 gently sinuated. Length 10J mm. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 455 



Var. — Reddish-testaceous, with the yellow marking ohscure, the 

 stripe on dorsulum wanting; black spot on vertex quite prominent. 



Chapada, September ; Santarem. Twelve specimens. Belongs 

 perhaps to Saussure's II, Division Iota, but the third submarginal 

 cell is longer than high ; otherwise it agrees with the characteristics 

 of that group. It has a strong superficial resemblance to some 

 species of Gorytes. The variety mentioned comes from Santarem. 



Polybia suffusa n. sp. 



9 or ^ . — Black ; scape and pedicel, pronotum more or less, 

 body of abdomen, and legs in part, obscure ferruginous-brown ; 

 mandibles, fore margin of clypeus, spot on inner orbits at base of 

 clypeus and at bottom of cheeks, pronotum anteriorly and posteriorly, 

 two spots on mesopleura, one at top of metapleura, scutellum, post- 

 scutellum, middle segment except on sides, base of petiole and a 

 fascia at its apex which is extended along the sides, and a fascia at 

 apex of segments 2-5, yellow ; head and thorax with a golden pile, 

 not very dense, however. 



Clypeus broader than long, not distinctly punctured, its fore mar- 

 gin acutely angulate ; front with shallow punctures ; ocelli form a 

 high triangle ; eyes barely reaching base of mandibles, at any rate they 

 are more distant than in P. pediculata, to which suffusa is related ; 

 flagellum clavate, the first joint nearly as long as three following 

 united; dorsulum about as broad as long; middle segment with 

 shallow punctures, strongly furrowed down middle, more so than in 

 pediculata ; petiole, if anything, slightly longer than hind femur, 

 slender, strongly dentate behind middle, and a little dilated from 

 the teeth to apex ; remainder of abdomen cordate ; wings sub- 

 hyaline, strongly iridescent ; nervures and stigma dark brown ; 

 third submarginal longer than high, three times as long as second, 

 slightly narrowed above, the outer nervure sinuous. Length 7-8 mm. 



Chapada, May and October. About 60 specimens. This species 

 is closely allied to P. pediculata, but differs in coloration, less tri- 

 angular second submarginal, and generally more slender form. 

 The petiole is shaped almost precisely as in pediculata. 



Polybia frontalis n. sp. 



9 or $ , and $ . — Black ; front, clypeus and most of scape, red- 

 dish-yellow ; posterior orbits, narrow line on pronotum anteriorly 

 and posteriorly, spot beneath wings, postscutellum except apex, tips 

 of all femora, spot at tips of four anterior tibise, and a narrow line, 




456 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1898. 



sometimes wanting at apex of petiole, pale yellow ; mandibles red- 

 dish. 



Clypeus with shallow punctures, broader than long, obtusely 

 angular anteriorly ; ocelli forming a low triangle in consequence of 

 the hind pair being nearly twice as far apart as they are from the 

 anterior one, the distance between the hind pair about equal to that 

 between them and eyes ; the latter almost reaching base of mandi- 

 bles ; flagellum subclavate, the first joint about as long as the follow- 

 ing two united ; pronotum short, margined ; dorsulum barely longer 

 than broad, middle segment short, rather concave, with a narrow 

 raised line down middle on each side of which there is a furrow ; 

 petiole shorter than hind femur, elongate and tolerably stout, gradu- 

 ally enlarged from near base, much more slender than in P. socialise 

 remainder of abdomen subovate ; legs robust; wings subhyaline 

 throughout; nervures and stigma dark; third submarginal cell 

 higher than long, the outer nervure angulate before its junction with 

 the cubital vein. Length 11-12 mm. 



$ . — Colored like 9 °r $, but having the usual sexual differences • 

 smaller clypeus, narrower front, antenna? longer and acuminate at 

 tip ; otherwise agreeing with the preceding description. 



Chapada, October and November. Ten females (workers ?), one 

 male. Allied to P. socialis, but the more slender petiole excludes it 

 from Saussure's II, Division Iota. These divisions are not natural, 

 however. 



Polybia marginata n. sp. 



9 or $ — Thorax, petiole and legs reddish brown, the first men- 

 tioned with thin golden pile; head, and body of abdomen black; 

 sides of thorax and petiole apically dusky ; line on inner orbits be- 

 low emargination, on posterior orbits above, line on pronotum 

 anteriorly and posteriorly, fore margin of postscutellum, two lines on 

 middle segment, spot on four hind coxa?, and at tip of all femora, 

 pale yellow. 



Head subquadrate, not very transverse; ocelli forming an equi- 

 lateral triangle; first joint of flagellum nearly as long as the three 

 following united ; pronotum sharply margined anteriorly ; dorsulum 

 about one-fifth longer than broad ; middle segment concave medially ; 

 petiole elongate, slender, broadened from beyond middle, altogether 

 more slender than P. sericea, in length greater, if anything, than 

 hind femur ; wings dark, paler apically, black in costal cell ; breadth 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 457 



of second and third submarginal cells at the top nearly equal. 

 Length 15 mm. 



Chapada, September, October. Four specimens. Is the exact 

 counterpart of P. sericea superficially, but differs by the squarer head, 

 margined pronotum, more slender petiole, shorter dorsulum, etc. 



Tatua morio Fabr. 



Chapada, January, November, December ; Santarem. About 40 

 specimens. 

 Chartergus apicalis Fabr. 



Over 60 specimens. Sebastise, October ; Chapada, October to 

 December ; Corumba and Mararu, April. 



Chartergus Smithii Sauss. 



One example. Corumba, April. 

 Chartergus ater Sauss. 



Two specimens. Chapada, January; Santarem, April. 



Chartergus chartarius Oliv. 



Chapada, March and October ; Santarem. Nearly 50 specimens. 



Chartergus globiventris Sauss. 



Sebastian, October. Two specimens ( 9 <? ). The male closely 

 resembles the female, but has the clypeus entirely, a spot on scape 

 beneath, spot on all femora beneath near apex, and all the coxae 

 beneath, pale yellow ; the clypeus is considerably smaller. 



Chartergus fasciatus n. sp. 



9 or $ . — Black ; head below insertion of antenna?, cheeks, scape, 

 pronotum except a blotch on each side, scutellum anteriorly, mid- 

 dle segment entirely, mesopleurae except medially, legs including 

 coxae, a fascia on segments 1-3 at apex, segments 4-6 and ventrals 

 entirely, yellow ; flagellum black above, reddish-yellow beneath. 



Differs from C. Smithii other than in coloration, as follows : dor- 

 sulum shorter, nearly as broad as long; scutellum and postscutellum 

 smaller, the latter not tuberculate medially ; the wings are colored 

 as in Smithii, but the superiors have a pale band crossing them and 

 including the space between the apex of the costal, base of second 

 discoidal, and base of third submarginal cells, the veins included in 

 this region, and the stigma are whitish-yellow, elsewhere dark ; neu- 

 ration nearly as in Smithii. Length 7i mm. 



Mararu, April. One specimen. 



30 




458 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [L898. 



Chartergus griseus n. sp. 



9 or $ . — Black ; head in front, cheeks, scape and pedicel of an- 

 tennse, orange ; tibiae and tarsi more or less brown, the anteriors pal- 

 est ; thorax and abdomen with a thin griseus pubescence, more 

 obvious on middle segment ; posterior margin of pronotum yellow- 

 ish medially as a rule. 



Clypeus obtusely angulate ; flagellum scarcely clavate ; ocelli 

 forming a high triangle, the space between hind pair much less than 

 that between them and the anterior one ; pronotum with a tolerably 

 long dorsal surface, much longer than in C. ater, sharply margined 

 anteriorly, and, with the dorsulum, rather coarsely punctured, 

 remainder of thorax similarly punctured ; postscutellum not tuber- 

 culate ; middle segment shallowly concave ; abdomen ovate ; wings 

 subhyaline, the anterior margin of the superiors, including the mar- 

 ginal cell, fuscous ; nervures and stigma black ; second submargiual 

 triangular, much narrowed above, the third rhomboidal narrowed 

 above, the outer nervure nearly straight. Length 1\ mm. 



Mararu, April ; Santarem. Nine specimens. 



CHARTERGINUS gen. nov. 



Head flat, transverse, the development of cheeks varying in the 

 different species, but less than in Chartergus. Front long and rather 

 narrow. Eyes long and narroiv, practically reaching base of man- 

 dibles. Mandibles slender, contracted medially, with four distinct 

 teeth on inner margin ranging from the apex, which is not trunca- 

 ted as in Chartergus or Polybia, but shaped somewhat as in Necta- 

 rinia. Maxillary palpi 6-jointed, the first and last joints longest; 

 labial palpi 4-jointed, the basal joint longest, the second and third 

 shortest. Clypeus truncate or acuminate at tip ; antennae, inserted 

 at base of clypeus. Thorax truncate anteriorly, shaped throughout 

 as in Chartergus, the scutellum scarcely raised above the level of 

 postscutellum, and not emarginate. Middle segment concave, the 

 sides not angularly produced or spinose ; tibial spurs 1-2-2. Abdo- 

 men with first segment campanulate, practically sessile with second 

 segment, ivith a basal petiole varying in length in the different spe- 

 cies, in some species almost wanting. Neuration of wings as in 

 Chartergus. 



Type: C.fulvus. 



Charterginus is intermediate between Chartergus and Nectarinia. 

 It is more closely allied to the former genus, from which it differs 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 459 



by the slender mandibles, flatter head and differently shaped first 

 abdominal segment. 



Charterginus fulvus n. sp. 



9 or $ . — Entirely fulvous ; a broad stripe across vertex, flagel- 

 lum above, and sometimes the suture between dorsulum and scutel- 

 lum and a spot on second dorsal segment medially, black or black- 

 ish ; clypeus paler yellow. 



Clypeus much longer than broad, with large, shallow, scattered 

 punctures, its fore margin broadly truncate ; vertex with strong, 

 separated punctures ; ocelli forming an equilateral triangle, the 

 space between hind pair about one-third less than that between them 

 and eyes, the latter almost reaching base of manibles ; flagellum 

 clavate, first joint longer than second, but distinctly shorter than 

 the combined length of second and third ; occiput sharply margined 

 posteriorly ; pronotum medially with a distinct surface, transversely 

 margined on each side ; thorax strongly punctured ; dorsulum a 

 little longer than broad ; postscutellum with a distinct tubercle 

 medially ; middle segment strongly swollen on each side posteriorly, 

 not compressed ; abdomen strongly punctured, first segment cam- 

 panulate, with a basal petiole nearly as long as first hind tarsal 

 joint, transversely impressed before apical margin ; wings subhya- 

 line, black along costal margin, as are also the nervuresand stigma ; 

 second submarginal cell triangular, narrowed more than two-thirds 

 above; third submarginal longer than high, subquadrate, narrowed 

 about one quarter above. Length 7-8 mm. 



Mararu, April ; Santarem. Eight specimens. Judging from de- 

 scription, C. falvus must greatly resemble Chartergus coloboptenis, 

 but the dorsulum is not black as in that species, which is apparently 

 a typical Chartergus, with short first abdominal segment. 



Charterginus fuscatus n. sp. 



9 or $ . — Black, with brownish pile ; line on inner orbits below 

 emargination, continued along the sides of clypeus to apex, and 

 narrower line on posterior orbits, pale yellow ; first dorsal segment 

 at apex narrowly and obscurely yellowish. 



Head very flat, the cheeks scarcely developed ; clypeus longer 

 than broad, pyriform, acuminate at apex, finely punctured ; front 

 with shallow punctures; ocelli almost forming a curved line, the 

 hind pair separated by a much greater distance than they are from 

 the anterior one, and almost equal to that between them and eyes ; 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



the latter narrow and long, fully reaching base of mandibles; tho- 

 rax strongly punctured ; pronotura very sharply margined ante- 

 riorly, with a distinct medial surface; dorsulum nearly one-quarter 

 longer than broad ; postscutellum not tuberculate, triangular, the 

 posterior margin extended ; middle segment strongly concave, more 

 or less compressed laterally ; abdomen strongly punctured, the first 

 segment short, campanulate, the basal petiole scarcely evident ; 

 wings subhyaline, black in the costal cell ; third submarginal much 

 longer than high, narrowed about one-third above, the outer nervure 

 strongly sinuate ; nervures and stigma black. Length 8 mm. 

 Mararu, April. One specimen. 



Charterginus cinctellus n. sp. 



9 or $ . — Black ; line on inner orbits helow emargination, ex- 

 tending along sides of clypeus to apex, narrow line on posterior or- 

 bits, two short curved lines (sometimes wanting) on vertex, line on 

 pronotum anteriorly, and a short one on posterior margin just before 

 tegul?e, anterior margin of scutellum and postscutellum, and a fascia 

 at apex of abdominal segments 1-5, pale yellow ; scape reddish be- 

 neath. 



Head about as in fuseatus ; middle segment not as strongly mar- 

 gined, shorter medially ; dorsulum shorter, not one-quarter longer 

 than broad ; postscutellum similar, but not as triangular; first dor- 

 sal segment short, campanulate, the basal petiole quite short, but 

 still more evident than in C. fuseatus ; wings subhyaline through- 

 out ; nervures and stigma black; third submarginal cell a little 

 higher than long, narrowed about one-fifth above. Length 7 mm. 



Chapada, October. Seven specimens. Has a superficial resem- 

 blance to Chartergas ehartarius, but is smaller. 



Nectarinia Lecheguana Latr. 



About 50 specimens. Chapada, January, June, September to 

 December; Corumba, March ; Santarem, 



Neotarinia bilineolata Spin. 



Chapada, January, March, May, November, December. Thirty- 

 five specimens. 



Nectarinia Augusti Sauss, 



Chapada, same months as bilineolata; Santarem. Twenty-five 

 specimens. 

 Nectarinia scntellata Spin. 



Chapada, December. One example. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 461 



08 



a) 



NEW CRETACEOUS FOSSILS FROM AN ARTESIAN WELL-BORING AT 



MOUNT LAUREL. N. J. 



BY C. W. JOHNSON. 



The following material was obtained by Mr. Lewis Wool man 

 from tLe borings of an artesian well on the farm of Mrs. Samuel 

 Shreeve, Mount Laurel, Burlington County, N. J. The well was 

 put down on the 70 feet contour near the base of the southern slope 

 of Mount Laurel. The following section, published by Mr. Wool- 

 man, 1 was given him by the contractor, Mr. Wm. C. Barr: — 



Commenced in the bottom of 



a dug well at the depth of... 25 feet. 



Reddish-gray sand 31 feet — 56 feet. 



Black clay 175 feet = 231 feet. 



A few molluscan fossils at 



about 100 feet. 

 Numerous mollusks at 150 " Matawan cla 7 marls ' y § 



to 160 feet. 



Tough green clay 30 feet = 262 feet 



Dark-bluish clay 42 feet = 304 feet J 



Gray sand, water bearing 2 feet = 306 feet. Sewell water horizon. 



Stopped on a whitish clay. 



Mr. Woolman states that : " The whitish clay on which this bor- 

 ing stopped is probably equivalent in horizon with certain alternat- 

 ing laminse of whitish clays and sands that were found near the bases 

 of the wells at the Wenonah Hotel and at Sewell. Beneath these 

 laminae, at the last two named localities, occur coarse sands and 

 gravels with large pebbles, forming an open stratum from which an 

 abundant and excellent supply of water is obtained. The water 

 horizon reached at Mount Laurel may be considered as practically 

 the same. We have designated this as the Sewell water horizon. 

 Its position is at the base of the Matawan clay marls and the top of 

 the Raritan plastic clay series, and has a thickness, if we may judge 

 by the boring at Sew r ell, of at least forty feet." 



A comparison of these fossils with those obtained by the writer for 

 the Museum of the Wagner Free Institute of Science from the banks 

 of theChattahoochie River, below Eufaula, Alabama, shows that this 



1 Report on Artesian Wells in New Jersey, by Lewis Woolman, from the 

 Geol. Survey of N. J. Ann. Rept. for 1897, p. 262. 




462 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



fossiliferous stratum is equivalent to the Ripley bed of Alabama, 

 Mississippi aud Texas, which is also represented in North Carolina, 

 especially at Snow Hill, Greene County. 2 



The following is a list of fossils obtained from the well : — 



Ostrea plumosa Morton. 

 Exogyra costata Say. 

 Anomia tellinoides Morton. 

 Camptonectes burlingtonensis 



Gabb. 

 Pinna sp. ? 

 Pteria sp. ? 



Trigoniarca cuneata Gabb. 

 Pectunculus sp. ? 

 Nucula percrassa Conrad. 

 Nucula sp. ? 

 Leda sp. ? 



Trigonia thoracica Morton. 

 Lucina cretacea Conrad. 

 Cardlum eufaulense Conrad. 

 Veniella conradi Morton. 

 Veleda lintea Conrad. 

 Leptosolen biplicata Conrad. 

 Legumen sp. ? 

 Corbula crassiplicata Gabb. 



Cinulia costata n. sp. (fig. 1). 

 Cinulia costata Johnson, n. sp. 

 264, name only. 



Shell with four whorls, spire prominent, body whorl with from 12 

 to 13 revolving grooves, which form an equal number of smooth, 

 flat, revolving costse ; these average about double 

 the width of the grooves. In one specimen the 

 third and fifth costse from the suture are almost 

 twice the width of the others, and the two lower 

 costse divided by a minute, impressed line. The 

 first spiral whorl has six, and the second five, re- 

 volving grooves. Apical whorl smooth, suture 

 deeply impressed. Aperture narrow, oblique, lip 

 broad, thick and crenulated on the inner margin 

 with eight small teeth-like projections, and extend- 



' Conrad, in Kerr's Geology of North Carolina, Appendix, Vol. I, 1875. 



Corbula jotdhei Lea. 

 Dentalium sp. ? 

 Cinulia costata n. sp. 

 Pyrifustis mbdensatus Conrad. 

 A lai'ia rostrata Gabb. 

 Anchura sp. ? (expansion of outer 



lip only). 

 Anchura ? pergracilis n. sp. 

 Pugnellus densatus Conrad. 

 Lunatia halli Gabb. 

 Trichotropis cancellaria Conrad. 

 Scalaria sillimani Morton. 

 Turritella vertebroides Morton. 

 Turritella quadrilira n. sp. 

 Tuba(l) reticulata n. sp. 

 Placentaceras placenta Dekay. 

 Hamulus squamosum Gabb. 

 Platytrochus speciosns Gabb & 



Horn. 



Annual Kept. Geol. Sur. N. J., 1897, page 




1898] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



463 



ing to the suture where it joins the callus of the peristome, which is 

 continuous to the base of the columella ; base with two oblique folds, 

 above which is a prominent fold or plate extending at almost right 

 angles to the columella ; between this and the posterior angle of the 

 aperture is a small, tooth-like projection. 



Alt. 4, diam. 2} mill. 



Three adults and two juvenile specimens in the collection of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Anchura? pergracilis n. sp. (fig. 2). 



Anchura sp. ? (young). Annual Kept. Geol. Survey N. J., 1897, page 264. 



Shell fusiform, whorls convex, the body whorl with about 18 and 

 the spiral whorls with 15 equidistant, flexuous, longitudinal ribs ; 

 numerous fine revolving lines, more prominent between 

 the ribs, and somewhat obsolete on the angles of the ribs, 

 cover the entire shell ; suture deeply impressed. The 

 length of the largest specimen (including the two apical 

 whorls, which are wanting), is about 20 mill. 



I would hesitate in describing this young shell if it 

 were possible to determine the shells of this group from the 

 figures and description of the casts that have already been 

 described. This species can always be determined, but in 

 identifying casts when the external characters are un- 

 known, there is always moie or less doubt, even when one 

 has access to the types. 



Anchura sp. ? 



This species is represented only by a fragment, the expanded por- 

 tion of the outer lip. This resembles somewhat 

 that of Anchura abrupta Conrad (Jour. Acad. 

 Natural Sciences, 2d series, IV, 284, pi. 47, fig. 1), 

 but has on the lower or anterior edge a small 

 projection or angle near the base (fig. 3), but no 

 downward projection at the end. It probably 

 represents a new species. Length of specimen, 



Tumtella quadrilira n. sp- 



Turritella quadrilira Johnson, n. sp. Annual Rept. Geol. Sur. N. J., 1897, 

 page 264, name only. 



This species closely resembles the Turritella trilira Conrad of the 



Ripley bed, but is at once distinguished by having jour instead of 



three equidistant revolving lirre; it also differs in being perfectly 



Fig. 2. 




464 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



smooth between the costse, while the lens shows the interstices of T. 

 t'ilira to have numerous, minute, raised revolving lines. The spe- 

 cimens are all greatly broken, the largest, showing five whorls, is 

 14 mill, in length, but the fragments indicate that it probably at- 

 tains the size of the average T. trilira, about 50 mill. 



Tuba? reticulata n. ap. 



Tuba ? reticulata Johnson, n. sp. Annual Rept. Geol. Sur. N. J., 1897, page 

 264, name only. 



Whorls very convex, with four equidistant, revolving, raised 

 lines, which are crossed by equidistant longitudinal ribs of a corre- 

 sponding size, which form equal, quadrate interstices, except below 

 the suture where the longitudinal ribs become obsolete. At the 

 junction of the two series of raised lines are small tubercles through- 

 out the entire shell. Owing to the imperfect apertures of the five 

 specimens, its generic position remains doubtful, but its distinct 

 sculpture will distinguish the species. Length of the largest speci- 

 mens, 6 mill.; probably attains the length of about 10 mill. 



Trigonia thoraoica Morton. 

 Trigonia eufalensis Gabb. 



There seems to be considerable confusion regarding these forms. 

 That T. eufalensis Gabb is only the young of T. thoracica Morton 

 can be readily proven by the large suite collected by the writer at 

 Eufaula and Prairie Bluff, Alabama. Morton's type came from the 

 latter locality. The species recorded from Reeve's clay bank near 

 Lenola, N. J., is T. thoracica, not T. mortoni Whitfield. 




1898.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 465 



October 4. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Nineteen persons present. 



October 11. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair 

 Thirty-six persons present. 



October 18. 



J. Cheston Morris, M. D., in the Chair. 



Thirty-four persons present. 



A paper entitled "Some Cuban Species of Cerion," by H. A. 

 Pilsbry and E. G. Vanatta was presented for publication. 



A Memorial of Dr. Joseph Lekly. — Dr. Nolan presented to the 

 Academy as a memorial of the late Dr. Joseph Leidy, five volumes of 

 biographical notices, portraits, autograph letters and original draw- 

 ings. The contents of the volumes in detail are as follows : 



Volume I. 1. Biographical notices by J. Parrish, M. D., New 

 Jersey Medical Exporter, 1853; Henry C. Chapman, M. D., Pro- 

 ceedings of the Academy, June 30, 1891 ; Wm. Hunt, M. D., be- 

 fore the Alumni and Students of the Medical Department of the 

 University of Pennsylvania, Nov. 17, 1891 ; W. S. W. Ruschen- 

 berger, M. D., Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society, 

 April 25, 1892 ; Dr. Persifor Frazer, American Geologist, January, 

 1892 ; Jos. Wharton, before the graduating class of 1891 atSwarth- 

 more College ; George A. Piersol, M. D., to the classes of the Medical 

 and Dental Departments of the University of Pennsylvania, Octo- 

 ber, 1891 ; from the International Clinic, July, 1891. 



2. Transcripts of the original manuscripts of the memorial ad- 

 dresses delivered at a special meeting of the Academy, May 12, 

 1891, in recognition of Dr. Leidy's long continued service to it. 1 

 They consist of papers by Dr. William Hunt on the personal his- 

 tory of the subject of the memorial, by Dr. Harrison Allen on his 

 work in comparative anatomy, by Dr. H. C. Chapman on his 

 work in invertebrate anatomy, by Professor Angelo Heilprin on his 



1 These papers were not published because of the appointment of Dr. Chap- 

 man to prepare for the Proceedings a biographical notice which, with much 

 else, combined and epitomized the matter of the memorial addresses. 




466 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



work in geology and paleontology, by Joseph Willcox on his work 

 in mineralogy, by Dr. James Darrach on his work in botany, and 

 by Dr. Edw. J. Nolan on his services to the Academy with comments 

 on his personal character. 



3. These are followed by a verbatim report of a conversation held 

 with Dr. Nolan, October 29, 1867, when Dr. Leidy related in detail 

 and with the exquisite candor and simplicity which were character- 

 istic, the details of his life up to that time. The notes were made 

 by Dr. Nolan immediately on the conclusion of the interview with 

 fulness and accuracy, and form a most interesting autobiographical 

 contribution to the volume, being much more intimate and detailed 

 than the texts of the published notices. 



4. Manuscript of the last paper contributed by Dr. Leidy to the 

 Proceedings of the Academy, 1891, pp. 234 et seq. 



5. Autograph letters, and " Notes upon daily scientific observa- 

 tions, commenced March 1, 1846." 



6. Letter from Dr. Levick regarding Dr. Leidy's last illness. 



7. Valedictory Address, March 27, 1858. 



8. Detailed index. 



Volume II. Botanical drawings and notes, including representa- 

 tions of plasmodia, algse (Diatoms, Schizophytes, Desmids, Proto- 

 coccus, Confervoids, Vaucheria), fungi, ferns and angiosperms. 



Volume III. Zoological drawings and notes. Infusoria (Flagel- 

 lata, Ciliata, Sectoria, Atricha, including forty-five originals of the 

 figures in the Freshwater Rhizopods of North America, Rhizopoda), 

 sponges, and one hundred and seventy-six unpublished illustrations 

 of gregarines from twenty-one hosts, a most valuable contribution 

 to a monograph of these parasites. 



Volume IV. Zoological drawings and notes, continued. Hydro- 

 zoa, ctenophors, bryozoa, worms (Platyelminthes, Nematilminthes). 



Volume V. Zoological drawings and notes, continued. Worms 

 (Annulata), arthropods, (Rotatoria, Crustacea, Arachnoidea, In- 

 secta), mollusks, fishes, reptiles, and mammals. 



The botanical material has been arranged by Dr. J. W. Harsh- 

 berger according to the classification of Warming's Handbook of 

 Systematic Botany, while the zoological drawings have been placed 

 by Dr. Nolan in accordance with Cams and Gerstaecker. Exhaus- 

 tive indexes have been prepared and bound with the volumes. 



Much the greater part of the drawings and notes have been 

 contributed by Mrs. Joseph Leidy, to whom the thanks of the 

 Academy are due for thus providing for the preservation of these 

 interesting relics of her distinguished husband. 



Dr. Leidy is unquestionably the most prominent figure in the his- 

 tory of the Academy. This distinction is due not only to the variety, 

 extent and value of his scientific work, but also because of his long 

 connection with the executive offices of the society, as fully set 

 forth in the several biographical notices included in the first volume 

 of the memorial. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 467 



It is, of course, through his scientific work that he will he known 

 to succeeding generations, but the personal qualities of the man : 

 his humility, his charity, his integrity, and his transparent truth- 

 fulness can only be fully appreciated by those who were thrown into 

 daily communication with him. 



It is fitting that these volumes should be placed in the Academy, 

 where nearly all of Dr. Leidy's work was done, as an evidence of his 

 artistic ability and the diversity of his scientific interests, for they 

 not only contain exquisite specimens of draughtsmanship but the 

 drawings belong to nearly every department of natural history from 

 Myxomycetes to Man. 



October 25. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Forty persons present. 



Dr. D. G. Brinton made a communication on the ethnology of 

 the Philippine Islands. (No abstract). 



Prof. J. Wharton James and Prof. Win. Libbey, Jr. spoke of the 

 Enchanted Mesa. (No abstract). 



The following were elected members : 



D. M. Barringer, George C. Thomas, Lincoln Godfrey, Henry 

 Emerson Wetherill and MissEmeline Maddock. 



The following were ordered to be published : 




468 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



NEW SPECIES OE DIATOMS. 

 BY CHARLES S. BOYER. 



RHABDONEMA. 

 Rhabdonema Woolmanianum n. sp. Boyer. 



Valve oblong, with sharply crenulate margin, punctate, the puncta 

 in transverse rows, about 6 in .01 ram. Pseudoraphe indistinct. 

 Septa perforate, connected with each other usually near alternate 

 ends by straight transverse diaphragms. 



L. of V. .155 ram. to .231 ram. 



Fossil in the Miocene deposit from an artesian well at Asbury 

 Park, N. J., at a depth of 40 ft. Not uncommon. 



Approaches R. hamuliferum Kitton and R. Musica Brum, but it 

 does not show either hooked septa as in the former nor curves re- 

 sembling musical notes as in the latter. It also differs in the char- 

 acter of the margin and in size, being four or five times larger than 

 either. 



Plate XXIV, figs. 1, la, lb. 



BIDDULPHIA. 

 Biddulphia interrupta n. sp. Boyer. 



Valve elliptical, with small, rounded processes. Surface convex, 

 finely punctate, the puncta about 10 in .01 mm., radiating in scat- 

 tered lines from the centre at which are three minute spines. About 

 one-third the distance from centre to processes, at each end, a 

 hyaline band produced by the interruption of puncta, crosses the 

 valve transversely extending nearly to the sides. 

 L. ofV. .112 mm. 

 Campeachy Bay. Rare. 

 Plate XXIV, fig. 2. 

 Biddulphia verrucosa n. sp. Boyer. 



Valve suborbicular, convex. Processes very large, cylindrical, 

 truncate. Surface coarsely reticulate, the reticulations unequal, 

 irregular, about 2 in .01 mm. Within the reticulations are coarse 

 puncta abont 3 in .01 mm. 

 L. ofV. .138 mm. 

 Fossil at Redondo Beach, Cal. Very rare. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 469 



This form, which approaches the Geratmdus group, is distinguished 

 by the incrusted or warty appearance of the surface. 

 Plate XXIV, fig. 5. 



Biddulphia Keeleyi n. sp. Boyer. 



Valve broadly rhombic-elliptical, rounded at the ends. Surface 

 slightly convex, without depression, reticulated, the reticulations 

 unequal, hexagonal, about 2 in .01 mm., with puncta within the 

 reticulations about 8 in .01 mm. Three stout spines are placed on 

 each side near the margin. Processes inflated at the base, small at 

 the apex and placed not at the ends of the valve but obliquely 

 opposite, near the ends. 



L. ofV. .148 mm. 



U. S. S. " Tuscarora" Soundings, Lat. 36° 12' N., Long. 123° 11' 

 W., 1,605 faths. Also coast of California. Rare. 



Only two specimens have been noticed, one of which was found 

 by Mr. F. J. Keeley on seaweed from California. 



Plate XXIV fig. 4. 

 Biddulphia Argus n. sp. Boyer. 



Valve broadly elliptical, convex, with an elliptical depression at 

 centre. Surface finely reticulate, the reticulations, more or less 

 hexagonal, about 3 in .01 mm. at the border, and 5 in .01 mm. at 

 the centre from which they radiate in curved lines. The central 

 depression is encircled by from ten to twelve short spines. Pro- 

 cesses rather short and obtuse. 



L. of V. .165 mm. 



Port Antonio, Jamaica. Not common. 



Distinguished chiefly by the central spines and by the size of the 

 reticulations, whence the name. It approaches B. Roperiana Grev. 



Plate XXIV, fig. 6. 

 Biddulphia semicircularis Asburyana n. var. Boyer. 



Valve arcuate with the ends produced and elevated into rounded 

 processes. Surface not divided by costate lines, convex, punctate, 

 the puncta rounded about 6 in .01 mm. near the hyaline ex centric 

 space from which they radiate irregularly, increasing in size to 

 about 1 j in .01 mm. at the margin where they are irregular and 

 occasionally confluent. 



L. of V. .181 mm. 



Fossil in the Miocene deposit from the artesian well at Asbury 

 Park, N. J. at a depth of 40 ft. Not uncommon. 




470 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Quite distinct from Euodia produeta Grun. and from B. semicir- 

 cidaris (Br.) in the irregularity of the produced ends, in their eleva- 

 tion into processes, in the size, shape and distribution of the puncta 

 and in the absence of costse. 



Plate XXIV, fig. 3. 



Biddulphia Shulzei n. sp. Bo3'er. 



Valve elliptical, slightly raised toward the centre, with a large 

 rounded process-like elevation at each end. Surface punctate, the 

 puncta rounded, oblong, averaging 5 in .01 mm., but for the most 

 part scattered, leaving numerous hyaline spaces, one of which 

 appears as an indefinite, indistinct transverse band at the base of 

 each process. Owing to the irregularity in the distribution of the 

 puncta the circumference of the valve appears to show a scalloped 

 border. 



L. of V. .115 mm. 



In the character of its markings it approaches Tabulina Testudo 

 Brun. from which it is distinguished by having but two processes 

 and in being without the hyaline lines which cross the valve in the 

 latter. 



Fossil in the artesian well deposit at Weymouth, N. J. I have 

 seen but one specimen which was found by Mr. John A. Shulze who 

 also discovered a variety having two processes at one end and one 

 at the other. 



Plate XXIV, figs. 7, 8. 



There appears to be no special reason why either this form or that 

 known as Tabulina Testudo Brun. should be separated from the 

 genus Biddulphia. The hyaline lines are not always definite even 

 in Tabulina Testudo, while the variety in which but three processes 

 appear clearly indicates an approach toward the type of Biddulphia. 



Explanation of Plate XXIV. 



Fig. 1. Rhabdonema Woolmanianum Boyer, valve view, x 284. 



Fig. la. Rhabdonema Woolraauianum, septum, x 284. 



Fiff. lb. Rhabdonema Woolmanianum, zonal view, x 284. 



Fig. 2. Biddulphia interrupta Boyer. x310. 



Fig. 3. Biddulphia semicircularis Asburyana Boyer. x 300. 



Fig. 4. Biddulphia Keeleyi Boyer. x 300. 



Fig. 5. Biddulphia verrucosa Boyer. x 302. 



Fig. 6. Biddulphia Argus Boyer. x 330. 



Fig. 7. Biddulphia Shulzei Boyer, var. x 475. 



Fig. 8. Biddulphia Shulzei Boyer. x475. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 471 



NEW SPECIES OF ODONTOSTOMUS FROM BRAZIL AND ARGENTINA. 



BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



The forms noticed below are mainly recent accessions to the col- 

 lection under my charge, received from Dr. H. von Ihering, the 

 Director of the young but progressive Brazilian institution, the 

 Museu Paulista. Three of the species belong to the subgenus of 

 Odontostom us called Macrodontes, a group characterized by the con- 

 tinuous peristome, spirally lirulate earlier whorls, and regular, fine 

 striation of the later ones, with minute and shallow but close spiral 

 incised decussating lines. This very distinct subgenus contained 

 four species: odontostomus Sowerby, jasciatus Dohrn, Grayanus 

 Pfr. and cordovanus Pfr. Dr. von Ihering's zoological explorations 

 have already nearly doubled this number. 



All of the species of Macrodontes hitherto known have the aper- 

 ture obstructed by large teeth ; but in two of the new forms, degen- 

 eratus and Dautzenberg ianus, the teeth have degenerated to such a 

 degree that they are probably no longer functional as barriers 

 against predacious arthropods. In another, paulista, the teeth are 

 more strongly developed than in any other Macrodontes. 



Odontostomus (Macrodontes) paulista Pilsbry <fc v. Ihering, n. sp. 



Shell lengthened fusiform ; rather solid; reddish-chestnut, with 

 irregular, lacerated and somewhat zigzag, obliquely longitudinal, 

 hydrophanous, cream-tinted streaks. Surface dull, very minutely 

 but sharply striated in the direction of growth lines, a strong lens 

 showing much more minute and superficial, dense, spiral striation, 

 the apical whorls spirally lirate. Whorls 6, the first turned in, the 

 rest rather rapidly and regularly increasing, moderately convex, the 

 last becoming free at the aperture, compressed behind the outer lip, 

 the trench there impressed by five pits ; base pinched into an acute, 

 produced keel ; and behind the columellar lip there are two pits and 

 a deep axial pit, with another shallow pit behind the elevated 

 parietal wall. Aperture slightly oblique, narrow, irregularly 

 oblong, obstructed by eight pliciform teeth and a strong, deep-seated 

 columellar lamina ; peristome continuous, white, reflexed through- 

 out, the outer lip with two large teeth situated like those in 0. 




472 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



odontostomus, with smaller teeth between them and another above 

 the upper one; the teeth upon the columellar and parietal margins 

 corresponding in position with those of 0. odontostomus. 



Alt. 37, diam. 12 mm. length of aperture (including peristome) 

 15, width 8 mm. 



Iguape, prov. S.. Paulo, Brazil. (Dr. H. von Ihering). 



This most beautiful of the Macrodordes species has hydrophanous 

 cuticular markings somewhat like Auris Hawxwelli (Crosse). It 

 differs conspicuously from the well known 0. odontostovius in the 

 more slender contour, basal instead of baso-peripheral position of 

 the keel, and the longer and narrower aperture, which is consequ- 

 ently more filled by the large teeth. There is also one more tooth, 

 and the striation is much finer. 0. Grayamis differs strongly in the 

 less tapering and quite differently shaped base, as well as in lack- 

 ing the median tooth of the outer lip, etc. 



Odontostomus (Macrodontes) Dautzenbergianus n. sp. 



Shell oblong-ovate, thin, light chestnut with a golden sheen and 

 sparse, narrow oblique or zigzag creamy hydrophanous markings 

 (absent on some specimens) ; surface dull, with very minute but 

 regular and sharp striation along the lines of growth, and much finer, 

 shallower, close spiral lines; the apical If whorls delicately spirally 

 lirulate. Whorls 5, the first with in-turned tip, the rest rapidly in- 

 creasing, convex, the last becoming very shortly free at the aperture, 

 somewhat compressed behind the outer lip, and with three small 

 pits; the base pinched into a short keel, behind the columellar lip 

 two-pitted, with a deep umbilical fissure. Aperture irregularly 

 oblong; peristome continuous, reddish or flesh colored, narrowly 

 reflexed, the upper margin with a small blunt tooth, outer lip with 

 three small teeth within, the lowest low and wide, the upper two 

 minute and acute, whitish; basal lip with one low, wide tooth, the 

 columella with a strong oblique fold upon which a minute whitish 

 denticle is placed, another one being situated below the columellar 

 fold. 



Alt. 26, diam. 11 mm.; length of aperture 12, width 7i mm. (in- 

 cluding peristome). 



Raiz da Serra, Sao Paulo, Brazil (Dr. H. von Ihering). 



This species, to which we have attached the name of a distin- 

 guished French conchologist, is obviously a member of the 0. odon- 

 tostomus group of Macrodontes, agreeing with those forms in the posi- 

 tions of the denticles ; but in our species the armature of the aper- 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 473 



ture has degenerated to a series of very small denticles. For the 

 rest, the form is fuller than any other known Macrodontes. 



A specimen from Cubatad, Sao Paulo, differs from the type in 

 being darker colored, of a dark reddish-chestnut hue, somewhat 

 more solid, with the denticles on the outer lip and columellar mar- 

 gin subobsolete, hardly noticeable, and of the reddish color of the 

 lip itself; the pits behind the lip are correspondingly obsolete, but 

 there are two minute white denticles on the columellar fold. This 

 shell measures: alt. 26, diam. 10 mm.; length of aperture 11, width 

 6$ mm. 



Odontostomus (Macrodontes) degeneratus n. sp. 



Shell oblong-turreted, minutely perforated, thin but moderately 

 strong, pale yellowish-green tinted. Surface hardly shining, striated 

 in the direction of growth-lines, the striae hardly visible without the 

 aid of a lens, under which they are seen to be thread-like, well 

 raised, finely but rather superficially cut into beads by decussating 

 spirals which crenulate the summits of the striae. Spire convexly 

 conic, the apex obtuse ; whorls nearly 6, quite convex, the earlier 1? 

 densely spirally striated, the last whorl becoming free and someAvhat 

 descending in front, constricted and showing 3 small pits behind the 

 outer lip, bicarinate at base, the keels short, outer one strongly 

 pinched up, the inner low, rounded, a distinct depression between 

 them. Aperture oblique, quadrangular-oblong, nearly i the total 

 length of the shell, obstructed by a strong columellar fold which 

 terminates below in a transverse lamella, and by 6 small, tuberculi- 

 form teeth : one upon the parietal margin close to its posterior 

 termination, three upon the outer lip, the uppermost quite small, 

 and with the parietal denticle, defining a small rounded posterior 

 sinus or notch, the others low, removed from the lip-edge; basal 

 tooth median ; columellar tooth below the columellar fold. Peri- 

 stome white, narrowly reflexed, continuous and free throughout. 

 Alt. 21, greatest diam. 8 - 3, length of aperture 7 mm. 



Palmeiras, Province of Parand, Brazil (Dr. H. von Ihering). 



The species here described differs so widely from all other known 

 species of the group, that detailed comparisons are needless. 



Odontostomus (Plagiodontes) Iheringi Pilsbry & Vanatta, n. sp. 



Shell deeply rimate, pupiform with conic spire, rather solid, light 

 olivaceous brownish with darker longitudinal streaks; somewhat 

 shining, sculptured with fine, irregular growth-strise. Last whorl 



31 




474 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



subcylindrical or barrel-shaped, those above rapidly tapering, form- 

 ing a rather short, conic spire. Whorls 6? or 7, nearly flat, the last 

 with a more or less distinct basal keel on its latter half, and having 

 a small flattened tract within the keel behind the basal lip. Aper- 

 ture slightly oblique, shortly, irregularly ovate, obstructed by three 

 principal lamellre and one or two smaller denticles or teeth ; one 

 lamella well within on the parietal wall, bifid at its outer end ; 

 one very obliquely entering lamella on the columella; and a third 

 lamella within the outer lip near its middle. Besides these there 

 is a denticle or very small lamella on the basal lip near the foot of 

 the columella, and another within the outer lip above the median 

 lamella. 



Alt. 19, diam. 9, length of aperture 8J mm. 



Alt. 20, diam. 9, length of aperture 85 mm. 



Sierra Ventana, Argentine Republic. 



This species does not seem to be closely allied to any of the numer- 

 ous Argentine forms described by Doering, a part of which have not 

 yet been figured. Only one of the specimens shows the small den- 

 ticle above the lamella on the outer lip. 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



475 



SOME CUBAN SPECIES OF CEEION. 

 BY H. A. PILSBRY AND E. G. VANATTA. 



Since the publication of our catalogue of this genus, 1 the follow- 

 ing species have been described : 



Cerion (Maynardia) niteloides Dall, Bull. Lab. Nat. Hist. State 

 Univ. Iowa, IV, no. 1, p. 15, pi. 1, f. 2 (Dec, 1896). Water Cay, 

 Salt Cay Bank, on the north side of Cuba near the western end of 

 the Bahama banks. 



Cerion pilkburyi Pils. & Van., these Proceedings, November 23, 

 1897, p. 366, f. 5. Gun Cay, Bahamas. 



Cerion fordii Pils. & Van., Ibid, p. 365, f. 1, 2. Bahamas 

 (Abaco ?). 



5 6 7 8 9 



The forms herein described were received from Mr. F. E. Blanes 

 and Prof, de la Torre, bearing manuscript names ; which we were 

 requested to publish. As they are forms of considerable interest 



1 Proc Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1896, p. 315. 




476 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



and undoubted distinctness, so far as specific distinctions can be 

 said to exist in Cerion, we present them as a further contribution 

 to knowledge of this peculiar genus. 



Since writing upon this topic in 1896, we have been unable to 

 procure living or suitably preserved specimens of Cerion for anatom- 

 ical investigation ; but we have no reason to doubt that such study, 

 when it becomes possible, will justify our reference of the genus to 

 the family Urocoptidce (" Cylindrellidce" of authors). 



Respecting the extraordinary plasticity of the shell under the 

 force of varying circumstan.ee, something was said in our former 

 communication ; but as it would seem from questions put to us by 

 various conchological friends, the case was not stated strongly 

 enough. We do not seek paradox when we say that frequently the 

 differences between individuals of a species are greater than the 

 differences between species ; so wide is the swing of racial and in- 

 dividual variation. 



Cerion torrei Blanes. Figs. 1, 2. 



Shell cylindrical, obese, strong, rimate and perforate, the lower 

 two or three whorls of approximately equal diameter, those above 

 forming a rather short cone with sides diverging at an angle of 85° 

 to 90°. Whorls 10-11, the earliest 1-2 J white or corneous, several 

 following finely and sharply striated, the remaining whorls nearly 

 smooth ; last whorl ascending in front, somewhat tapering below, 

 and generally striated at the base. Brown, marbled with very irre- 

 gular stripes and dots of white. Aperture short, showing a small 

 short parietal tooth and a small columellar fold ; peristome white, 

 thickened and convex, reflexed and recurved, continuous, the 

 parietal margin more or less calloused. 



Alt. 23j, greatest diam. 13, length of aperture 11 mm. 



Alt. 28, greatest diam. 124, length of aperture 11 mm. 



Alt. 24, greatest diam. 11 2, length of aperture 10 mm. 



Port of Vita, Cuba (Francisco E. Blanes). 



This species resembles C. dimidiatum, differing in being of less 

 rude texture, less squarely obese form, higher terminal cone, no trace 

 of a keel defining the base, etc. 



It has the coloration of C. vulneratum. 



Var. omatum P. & V. Figs. 3, 4. 



Similar in form to the longer specimens of C- torrei, but strongly 

 and regularly ribbed throughout, the ribs on the cylindrical portion 






1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 477 



1-2 mm. apart, and decidedly narrower than the intervals; parietal 

 margin of peristome more elevated. 



Vita, Cuba. 



This looks like a distinct species, but is merely the costate form 

 of the preceding. It is more slender than the ribbed form of C 

 dimidiatum, with finer ribs, continued upon the terminal cone, and 

 there is no basal keel. 



Cerion sueyrasi Blanes. Fig. (5. 



Shell cylindrical, solid, rimate, the lower three whorls of about 

 equal diameter, those above forming a rather short, obtuse cone. 

 Whorls 10, the first smooth, next finely costulate, the rest very con- 

 vex, coarsely and sharply ribbed, the ribs high, angular, 15 to 18 in 

 number on the last whorl ; numerous rather irregular spiral striae 

 revolving about the middle of the lower two or three whorls. Color 

 (of specimens some time dead when collected), creamy or fleshy 

 white. Aperture small, with small teeth ; peristome expanded, 

 blunt, continued raised and straight across the parietal margin. 



Alt. 21, diam. 85, length of aperture 1\ mm. 



Alt. 22, diam. 9, length of aperture 8 mm. 



Vita, Cuba (Francisco E. Blanes). 



A fourth member of the group of C. scalarinum, decidedly stouter 

 in the spire than C. scalarinum Gundl. or C. johnsoni Pils. & Van., 

 and differing from C.jelis P. & V. in the weak development of the 

 teeth. 



Cerion incanum saccharimeta Blanes. Fig. 5. 



Shell much larger than typical incanum, with long, tapering spire 

 and blunt apex. Whorls 13, the last frequently irregularly costate. 

 Alt. 38, diam. 13, length of aperture 12 mm. 



Sugar Loaf Key, Florida (F. E. Blanes). 



Cerion crassiusculum Torre. Figs. 7, 8. 



Shell rimate, cylindrical, rather solid, lusterless, light brown or 

 yellowish-brown throughout. Latter three whorls of equal diameter, 

 or wider above, those above tapering in a short cone with straight 

 or slightly concave outlines; apex obtuse, rather mammillar. 

 Sculptured with rather close, regular, strong riblets, which are some- 

 what oblique, varying from as wide to half as wide as the inter- 

 stices, and about 28 in number on the antepenultimate whorl; be- 

 coming obsolete or partially so on the last whorl. Whorls nearly 

 10, but slightly convex, the last slightly ascending in front. 




478 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Aperture vertical, with a very small, short parietal tooth, and 

 moderate axial fold ; peristome blunt, expanded, subreflexed, the 

 terminations distant, connected by a moderate parietal callus. 



Alt. 20^, diam. 82, length of aperture 7s nun. 



Alt. 20, diam. 9j, length of aperture 8 mm. 



Cayo Juin, Baracoa, Cuba (Prof, de la Torre, F. E. Blanes). 



There is a small form, alt. 13, diam. 6i, length of aperture 5 mm., 

 having all the characters of the larger except that there are only 8 

 whorls. 



The last whorl in this species is half the total length of the shell 

 or a trifle more, and upon it the ribs are weak or wholly obsolete. 

 Compared with C. incrassatum microdon, it differs in the concave 

 instead of convex outlines of the terminal cone, and the color. It 

 differs from C. tenuilabre in the coarser sculpture ; and from both 

 in the comparatively smooth last whorl. 



Cerion sanzi Blanes. Fig. 9. 



Shell rimate, solid and strong, cylindric-conic. White, very 

 sparsely and inconspicuously mottled with grayish or brown ; luster- 

 less, the ribs rather glossy. Lower three whorls of about equal 

 diameter, those above forming a rather long cone terminating in an 

 obtuse apex. Whorls 10—11 J, the first smooth, the rest ribbed ; ribs 

 rather strong, narrow, separated by far wider interstices, 20-27 on 

 the penultimate whorl, frequently in part obsolete on the last whorl, 

 split on the base into an irregular striatiou. Aperture irregularly 

 oval, the throat brown ; peristome reflexed, more or less thickened, 

 the terminations joined by a heavy parietal callus. Parietal tooth 

 deep within, strong and rather long; columellar tooth well marked. 



Alt. 27, diam. 11 i, length of aperture 10 mm. 



Alt. 23?, diam. 10s, length of aperture 9 mm. 



Confites Key, Nuevitas, Cuba. 



This species has considerable resemblance to C. mum-ia, but differs 

 conspicuously in the strong development of the parietal fold, the 

 inner termination of which is not visible from the aperture. In 

 some specimens the interior of the aperture is mainly white, the 

 brown appearing far within. In one shell of the type lot there is a 

 small accessory denticle to the left of the main fold. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 479 



November 1. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-eight persons present. 



The death of John Shallcross, a member, was announced. 

 A paper entitled " Notes on the growth of the Hobblebush, Vibur- 

 num lantanoides," by Ida A. Keller, was presented for publication. 



November 8. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-three persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : 



" The occurrence of Marcasite in the Paritan Formation." By 

 S. Harbert Hamilton. 



" Margarita Sharpii, a new Alaskan Gastropod." By Henry A. 

 Pilsbry. 



" The Bone Cave at Port Kennedy and its partial examination in 

 1894, 1895 and 1896." By Henry C. Mercer. 



November 15. 



The President, Samuel G- Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-one persons present. 



The death on the 11th inst. of Charles P. Perot, a member, was 

 announced. 



November 22. 

 Mr. Charles Morris, in the Chair. 



Twenty-four persons present. 



Mr. Mercer's paper on the Port Kennedy Bone Cave was ordered 

 to be printed in the Journal. 



The following minute of appreciation of the service of the late 

 Charles P. Perot was unanimously adopted : 



The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia has heard with 

 great regret the announcement of the death on the 11th inst. of 

 Charles P. Perot. 




480 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



He was elected a member in May, 1874. He served as Treasurer 

 during the years 1893 and 1894 and was a member of the Finance 

 Committee from 1890 to 1893 and again from 1895 until his death. 

 He was Chairman of the Library Committee, and was continuously 

 a member of the Council from his first election thereto in 1881 until 

 his decease. 



In all these positions Mr. Perot was a wise, liberal and devoted 

 friend and supporter of the Academy. His services were given 

 with fidelity and with high efficiency. In all these various relations 

 Mr. Perot not only won the confidence of his associates but by his 

 urbane manner and equable temperament he secured their personal 

 friendship as well. He was a good type of those broad minded 

 and sympathetic business men in Philadelphia and vicinity who 

 have freely given their valuable aid to this institution and have con- 

 tributed so largely to its usefulness and high standing. 



The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia hereby ex- 

 presses and places on record its appreciation of the value of Mr. 

 Perot's efficient services to the institution and of the great loss 

 which has been sustained by his death. 



November 29. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-seven persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : 

 "Some Observations on the Classification of Birds." By Dr. R. 



W. Shufeldt. 



" A Study of the type Specimens of Birds in the Collection of the 



Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, with a brief history 



of the Collection." By Witmer Stone. 



Occurrence of Oryzomys palustrls in Southern New Jersey. — Mr. 

 Witmer Stone placed on record the capture of two specimens of 

 the Rice-field Mouse, Oryzomys palustris, in southern New Jersey, 

 on Nov. 21, 1898, by Mr. Henry W. Warrington. 



The history of the species is of peculiar interest. It was originally 

 discovered in 1816 by Dr. John Bachman at Charleston, S. C. but 

 was not described until 1836 when a specimen and description were 

 sent to Drs. Pickering and Harlan of Philadelphia for comparison 

 with Ord's Arvicola riparia and for publication if the southern 

 animal proved distinct. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 481 



Dr. Bachmau named the mouse Arvicola oryzivora. Upon com- 

 parison with specimens in the Academy collection Dr. Harlan not 

 only found that Bachman's mouse was quite distinct from Arvicola 

 riparia but also discovered that a mounted specimen identical with 

 it was already in the collection labelled from " Fastland " near 

 Salem, N. J. 



He thereupon ignored Bachman's manuscript and described the 

 New Jersey specimen under the name of Mus paiustris. 1 Baird 

 subsequently established the genus Oryzomys for it, and it has since 

 been known as Oryzomys paiustris (Harlan). 



Further explorations have shown that the Rice-field Mouse is 

 distributed from North Carolina to Texas but until the present time 

 no other specimens have been obtained from New Jersey. For 

 some time past Mr. S. N. Rhoads has made persistent efforts to dis- 

 cover this animal and has trapped without avail in Cape May Co., 

 Port Norris, and Salem. 



As a result of the failures it seemed most probable that the 

 original Harlan specimen had been wrongly labelled and that the 

 Bice-field Mouse was not a member of the New Jersey fauna. This 

 view had in fact been generally adopted. 



Mr. Warrington's rediscovery of the animal in this State after a 

 lapse of at least sixty-two years is therefore of great interest. 



He states that the specimens were secured on the marshes border- 

 ing Delaware Bay about midway between Port Norris and Salem, 

 and that they were inhabiting old Muskrat houses in which they 

 had made their nests. 



Mr. Stone stated further that steps would be at once taken to 

 secure a satisfactory series of these mice for comparison with those 

 of the Carolinas as there is a possibility of the latter proving a dis- 

 tinct subspecies. 



The form inhabiting Florida has been already separated by Chap- 

 man as Oryzomys paiustris natator. 



The following were elected members: — 



Charles Mohr, M. D., Henry L. Broomal, H. B. Gross, Miss 

 Emily Lowber, Miss Ethel Smith, Mrs. Julia Stockton Robins, 

 Miss Emily Williams Biddle and Mrs. J. Edgar Thomson. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 

 1 Am. Jour. Sci. and Arts, XXXI, 385. 




482 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



THE GROWTH OF VIBURNUM LANTANOIDES Michx. 



BY IDA A. KELLER. 



During a visit to Lake Ganoga, Sullivan County, Pa., last August, 

 I found nothing more plentiful than the hobble-bush, Viburnum Ian- 

 tanoides. The long branches of this plant with their large round- 

 ovate leaves, the brown naked winter buds, at that time already fully 

 developed, and the clusters of the then red berries were everywhere 

 conspicuous. There is something strikingly characteristic about the 

 species. It is described in Gray's Manual as a " straggling bush " 

 and in Britton & Brown's Flora as "a bush of irregular growth." 

 On collecting and comparing a sufficient number of specimens I came 

 to the conclusion that there is some peculiar tendency at the bottom 

 of this apparent irregularity and that law and order prevail in the 

 growth of this seemingly eccentric species. Although some shoots 

 differ so widely from others that they seem hardly to belong to the 

 same kind of plant it is by no means a difficult matter to find the 

 necessary connecting links. The accompanying illustrations, al- 

 though diagrammatic, are directly drawn from nature and by means 

 of these I have endeavored to show that this so called "irregular 

 growth " is chiefly due to a peculiar method of ramification on the 

 one hand, and to a tendency to the suppression of the growth of the 

 main axis on the other. 



Plate XXV, fig. 1 represents a form frequently occurring in 

 younger plants. A main axis and two lateral branches are con- 

 spicuously developed. The important point to observe is the con- 

 tinued growth of the main axis after ramification, which even sur- 

 passes that of the branches. It may be noticed incidentally at this 

 point that the axis ends with three buds, which are represented on a 

 larsrer scale in fig. 6. It must also be observed that the axes of the 

 lateral branches cease to indicate vigorous growth after again 

 branching. These axes terminate at a'. Attention must also be 

 called to the fact that on the ends of the branches marked b' there 

 appear but two instead of three buds. Fig. 7, which represents 

 these buds on a larger scale, is a repetition of fig. 6 with one of the 

 lateral buds obliterated. 1 The lateral bud in each case shows a 



1 The suppressed lateral bud occurs occasionally as a rudiment. See figs. 8 

 and 9. 




1 898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 483 



greater elongation of the stem than the central bud. It thus fore- 

 shadows the precedence which it takes in the future development of 

 the plant. It can be readily observed that the suppressed lateral 

 bud is the one next the main axis of branch b. 



Comparing fig. 4 with fig. 1, a decided difference in the relative 

 growth of the main axis and its branches is to be observed. This 

 difference is still further emphasized by such shoots as the one 

 represented by fig. 3. 



From the foregoing, fig. 5 represents a striking contrast in some 

 respects. Here we find a short axis terminated at a, with long 

 lateral branches which are studded with branchlets along their 

 upper side. Fig. 2 is the necessary connecting link. This was taken 

 from a low bush with a very short main axis. The right lateral 

 branch resembles fig. 5, while the lateral branch to the left is quite 

 similar to the branches of fig. 1. 



Plate XXV, fig. 5 explains itself if we recall the two buds of fig. 

 7. We can readily see that this effect is produced by the vigorous 

 growth of the lateral bud with little or no growth of the main axis. 

 The axes of the branches in their turn are suppressed when the next 

 ramification occurs and the energy of growth is again transferred to 

 the lateral branch of the next series. We have thus produced a 

 so-called false axis, i. e. an axis which is successively formed from 

 the lateral branches of the main axis, the latter continuing to exist 

 with little or no growth. This is well known to botanists as the 

 sympodial method of branching and is observable in many of our 

 forest trees. 



In making the drawings I was struck with their resemblance to 

 the diagrammatic representations, found in many of our text books, 

 of the cyme, in which the oldest flower terminates the stem while 

 the main growth continues laterally. Compare, e. g., fig. 4, with the 

 little axillary clusters of Weigelia or the inflorescence of the Caryo- 

 phyllacese. Furthermore a peculiar modification of the cyme is 

 well known as the monochasium in which there is but one lateral 

 ramification. This finds its parallel in fig. 7. The monochasium 

 repeats itself indefinitely and here also this peculiar method of 

 branching has a decided tendency to continue until at times we have 

 a false axis whose length is to be measured by the yard. It is 

 curious that the lateral branch which carries on the growth is always 

 on the same side of the axis and thus the case is further comparable 




484 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



to the helicoid uniparouscyme in which the flowers (here represented 

 by a, a', a", etc.) always fall on the same side of the rhachis. 2 



I mention the similarity between this kind of inflorescence and 

 the sympodial method of branching of this species particularly be- 

 cause the inflorescence of Viburnum belongs to the cymose type. 

 The comparison is interesting if not of greater significance. To my 

 knowledge it is not usual to look for, or to find, a correspondence 

 between the method of branching of the vegetative system and that 

 of the flowering system of a species. 



From a comparison of the shoots of Viburnum htntanoides we 

 may draw the following conclusions: 



This species begins its career normally with a main axis ending 

 with a terminal and two lateral buds. 



A tendency soon becomes evident toward retarding the growth 

 of the main axis while the chief growth energy is transferred to the 

 lateral ramifications. 



There is a further tendency to the complete suppression of one of 

 the lateral buds which, however, may be present in rudimentary 

 form. 



In consequence we have the true axis ofteu replaced by a false 

 axis and we may regard V. Ian tano ides as a bush with a decided 

 tendency to the sympodial method of branching. 



2 Revisions to the original type of branching, represented by figs. 1, 3 and 4, 

 are not uncommon and assist in producing the irregular effect. See figs. 11 

 and 12. 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



485 



THE OCCURRENCE OF MARCASITE IN THE RARITAN FORMATION. 



BY S. HARBERT HAMILTON. 



The Gault formation of Folkstone near Dover, England, has long 

 been known to produce the form of marcasite known as " spear head 

 ore " from its apparent close resemblance to this weapon. So far as 

 I can ascertain this form of marcasite has never been observed in 

 this country where it occurs under similar circumstances as in 

 England. 



The beds of the Raritan formation at Sayreville, near New Bruns- 

 wick in New Jersey, which are largely worked for clay and kaolin, 

 contain a considerable amount of pyrite usually in the form of balls, 

 and concretions, in many instances resembling coprolites. Imbeded 

 in the plastic clays associated with these pyrite nodules were found 

 perfect specimens of the spear head variety of marcasite, very closely 

 resembling in size and appearance those from the foreign locality 

 already cited. In some specimens the marcasite twins are implanted 



upon pyrite; again, crystals of marcasite were 

 studded with minute cubes of pyrite illustrat- 

 ing the pseudo-morphism between these 

 dimorphous ferric sulfides. 



The specimens here described were ob- 

 tained upon a joint excursion of the New 

 York and Philadelphia mineralogists to this 

 locality under the guidance of Mr. John A. 

 Manley of New Brunswick, who collected the first specimens. 



Fig. 1.x 2. 




486 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



MARGARITA SHARPII, A NEW ALASKAN GASTROPOD. 



BY HENRY A. PILSBRY\ 



Margarita Sharpii n. sp. 



Shell thin, of low-conoid form, with extremely broad funnel- 

 shaped umbilicus and very rapidly expanding whorls. Color, dull 

 salmon or brick-pink, becoming ashy on the spire and within the 

 umbilicus. Sculpture, numerous spiral cords and threads, which on 

 the spire are strong, alternately smaller, then with a tertiary series 

 intercalated, the whole becoming less pronounced on the last whorl, 

 where by further intercalation of threads the spirals 

 become very numerous in some individuals, and in 

 others mostly obsolete ; the base with close, strong 

 spiral cords outside the edge of the umbilicus; the 

 whole surface with fine, crowded and somewhat 

 lamellar growth-stria?, the spire with some spaced 

 coarser radial riblets. Whorls 44, very rapidly ex- 

 Fig. 1. panding, the last at the aperture about three times 

 the width of the preceding (seen from above) ; gently convex ; peri- 

 phery angular ; base convex, the umbilical region broadly excav- 

 ated, nearly as large as the aperture. Aperture large, very oblique, 

 salmon colored within, with brilliant green reflections, but having a 

 wide border within the lip appearing dull whitish from in front, 

 but showing red and white reflections seen from below. Peristome 

 thin, deeply excised in the umbilical region, above the excision pro- 

 duced forward as a low wall curving around the umbilical edge, 

 continuing as far as the posterior termination of the outer lip. Alt. 

 7.5, greater diam. 14, lesser 11 mm. 



Operculum concave externally, with about 8 closely coiled whorls 

 with slightly free overlapping edges. 



Dutch Harbor, Unalaska (Dr. B. Sharp, June 21, 1896). 



The relations of this species are with M. umbilicalis Brod. & Sowb. 



and 31. vorticifera Dall. 1 The former of these is a Greenland species 



with the glossy surface and rounded whorls of the North Atlantic 



Margaritas. M. vorticifera is found in the Aleutian Islands, and 



■Manual of Conchology, XI, p. 288, pi. 59, f, 48-50, 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 487 



was taken by Dr. Sharp at Unalaska. It resembles M. Sharpii 

 closely in color, texture and sculpture, but differs from it in the 

 following particulars of form : Seen from above the whorls of M. 

 Sharpii increase in breadth very much more rapidly, the last be- 

 coming far broader near the aperture. The umbilical area in M. 

 vorticifera is broad and excavated, but the umbilicus proper is com- 

 paratively small, round and deep ; while in M. Sharpii the excavated 

 area is not only much larger, but the entire cavity is widely open to 

 its beginning. In M. vorticifera the columellar margin of the per- 

 istome is broadly concave along the margin of the "funnel," passing 

 into a subtriangular dilation above (well shown in the front view of 

 Dall's original figures), which impinges upon the circular umbilicus 

 and to a small extent vaults it over, as in many Helices. In M. 

 Sharpii the columellar margin is much more deeply excised, and its 

 continuation above forms a raised wall curving around the entirely 

 open and far wider umbilicus. 



Types are No. 70, 554 of the conchological collection of the Acad- 

 emy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 




488 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



December 6. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Thirty-three persons present. 



The death of Redwood F. Warner, a member, Nov. 29, aged 81 

 years, was announced. 



Dr. Florence Bascom made a communication on petrographi- 

 cal methods of rock determination, illustrated by the Philadelphia 

 belt of crystalline rocks. (No abstract). 



December 13. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Thirty-four persons present. 



December 20. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



One hundred and thirty persons present. 



A paper entitled "Synopsis of the United States Species of the 

 Hymenopterous Genus Centris Fabricius," by Wm. J. Fox, was 

 presented for publication. 



Prof. Angelo Heilprin made a communication, illustrated 

 by lantern views, on the geology and physical geography of the 

 Klondike Gold Mining Region, with incidents of a journey to 

 Dawson City. (No abstract). 



December 27. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-nine persons present. 



The following was ordered to be printed: — 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 489 



OBSERVATIONS ON THE CLASSIFICATION OF BIRDS. 1 

 BY DR. R. W. SHUFELDT. 



In former papers of mine the classification of various groups of 

 birds has been treated ; their osteology, as a rule, being the anatom- 

 ical system employed and referred to for the purpose. These inves- 

 tigations, as many are aware, have not been confined entirely to 

 recent avifaunse, but have also taken into consideration fossil 

 material ; the remains of birds that existed as far back as tertiary 

 time. 



So far as the United States ornis is concerned every family, or 

 indeed, nearly every genus of the recent age has thus been dealt with, 

 and some of the mss. presenting the details of these researches have 

 been published, while the far greater proportion of them tempora- 

 rily await a similar disposition. It is in this manner that such groups 

 as the Passeres, the Swifts, the Humming-birds, the Goatsuckers, the 

 Trogons, the Kingfishers, and many others have been gone over and 

 issued in the form of memoirs in different publications, while upon 

 the other hand the osteology of entire groups has been written out 

 and illustrated, and will, when printed, fill in gaps that formerly 

 existed. Among these last, extensive work has also been done with 

 large and small groups of birds not occurring in this country, as the 

 Penguins, the Ostriches, and others. These will not be taken espe- 

 cially into consideration in the present connection, for the reason 

 that considerable unanimity of opinion exists among naturalists 

 with respect to their taxonomy ; though probably the Penguins form 

 an exception to this statement. Commencing in the United States 

 avifauna with the Pygopodes, however, and passing the various 

 groups in review following their linear arrangement in the order in 

 which they are usually printed, we meet not only with single species 

 but with groups of species, the true taxonomic position of which, in 

 the system, ornithologists entertain very diverse opinions. It 

 is to these that it is my intention to refer in the present paper. 

 They have all been closely studied by me osteologically, and in the 



1 Read by title at the Sixteenth Congress of the American Ornithologists' 

 Union, at the United States National Museum, Washington, D, C. 17th of 

 November, 1898. 



32 




490 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



case of many of them their general anatomy has been investigated, 

 and their biology as a whole given weight. My views upon the 

 classification and systematic position of some of these families or 

 species now in my mind, have been briefly abstracted and published, 

 either in The Ibis of the British Ornithologists' Union, or in the 

 Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London. Others there are 

 that have not been so noticed. 



Prior to passing to the aforesaid subject-matter in chief how- 

 ever, it may be as well first to pay some attention to the morpholog- 

 ical characters of birds with special reference to their use in determin- 

 ing a scheme for the natural classification of the Class. By the 

 natural classification of Aves is meant an orderly arrangement of 

 existing birds into major and minor subdivisions according to their 

 true affinities as they actually obtain in nature. That a real relation- 

 ship exists among certain and various tribes of birds, since the time 

 they have, through their evolution, become differentiated from their 

 remote reptilian stock, is a fact that it is feared those who attempt 

 their taxonomy do not always keep impressed with sufficient 

 strength upon their minds. Consequently we often hear of this 

 classifier's arrangement, and that classifier's arrangement or scheme, 

 just as though no real affinities existed, whereas it is the duty of 

 each and every one attempting a taxonomic scheme to discover pre- 

 cisely how the avian tree has thrown out its branches and its twigs, 

 and, if possible, determine the points from where they sprung. 

 Equally useless is it to attempt a classification of birds by selecting 

 for the purpose the ornis of any particular area of the earth's sur- 

 face. Those that enter upon the task by applying to taxonomic 

 ornithology the birds occurring within arbitrary political boundaries 

 as mapped out by man will fail utterly, and such a piecemeal, pro- 

 visional classification will, with the greatest certainty, be broken up 

 the moment the first far-seeing taxonomer tests it with the morpho- 

 logical facts gathered from the entire class, both existing and ex- 

 tinct, as far as they are known to science. For this reason, we 

 must consider all the classifications of birds up to the present time 

 as being merely provisional, in as much as we are yet so far from 

 possessing the necessary knowledge to define the true one, based 

 upon the complete biological history of the Class. A study of the 

 various classificatory schemes that have been presented within the 

 last twenty-three centuries will convince any one that there has been 

 just as much of an evolution in this field as there has been in the case 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 491 



of birds themselves. It must be remembered in this connection that 

 even as early as Aristotelian time, birds were classified into groups, 

 aud Pliny, adhering to much that had been done five centuries 

 before him, selected only the very obvious characters of the feet for 

 the purpose, which threw all the birds known to him, into three 

 divisions, of which a Hawk, a Hen, and a Goose were respectively 

 representative. Thus were associated the Ducks and Cormorants, — 

 the Rails and Robins, — and this is what the feet did. Ornithology 

 was placed upon a scientific basis about the middle of the seventeenth 

 century through the labours of Willughby and Ray. They were 

 the first to use the two main divisions of Land and Water birds, and 

 in subdividing, both the bills and feet were used as classificatory 

 characters. For the most part Linnseus followed Ray, and in doing 

 so kept many birds in taxonomic juxtaposition where the affinity 

 was quite remote. Mergansers and Albatrosses were kept together, 

 as were Divers and Gulls, — and so much for what bills and feet did 

 in those days. Improvement over early authors was very evident, 

 however, and many palpable errors were rectified. From such 

 beginnings the science has grown up, authors and classifiers being 

 more and more numerous with each succeeding generation. Some 

 used one set of characters and some another, but it is to be distinctly 

 noticed that the previous taxonomic schemes have always influenced 

 their followers in later years. Merrem, who in 1812, was perhaps the 

 first to publish a systematic arrangement of the groups of birds, was 

 doubtless influenced by all that had been accomplished prior to his 

 time, as the work of Nitzsch in pterylography, Cuvier in structure, 

 and Linnams and Ray in a number of external characters. His 

 scheme was a solid contribution to the classification of birds, based 

 as it was upon a variety of anatomical characters, as those drawn 

 from the sternum, those from the feathers, those from the osseous 

 system, and those from other parts, as the bills and feet. In fact 

 Merrem took a long step in the direction of the truth, or rather in 

 the discovery of the true relationships of birds in nature. 



De Blainville quickly followed Merrem, and again rearranged the 

 avian scheme of classification, fascinated as he was by the characters 

 presented on the part of the body of the sternum. In some direc- 

 tions further advancement was evidenced, however, and this advance- 

 ment later on was powerfully increased by the labors of Nitzsch 

 who brought into play the arterial system, the song-muscles, the 

 nasal glands, and other morphological features. 




492 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Thus from the time of Nitzsch down to the present day, the 

 classification of birds has gone through many changes and many 

 phases at the hands of the ornithologists of the succeeding genera- 

 tions as they have passed. The greatest advances have been made 

 since the scientific demonstration of the law of organic evolution 

 and the derivation of birds became known, and these by the men 

 who have studied the subject from that standpoint. Were it pos- 

 sible for us now to know the complete biology of every bird-form 

 that has existed upon the earth since birds as birds came into exist- 

 ence, there would be among ornithologists an agreement of opinion 

 upon their classification, the world over, within a twelvemonth. If 

 half the species that have existed were known, the scheme would 

 almost work itself out. As it is, we probably see to-day in the 

 world's avifauna but a paltry remnant of that enormous and un- 

 known host, and it will be generations yet to come ere there will be 

 a consensus of opinion upon the affinities of this puzzling and very 

 homogeneous group of vertebrates. When compared with other 

 major groups of animals, either vertebrate or invertebrate, the 

 structural differences to be found among the forms making up the 

 natural minor groups of existing birds are far less apparent than in 

 any one of them. Taken in their entireties, the difference between 

 an Apteryx and a Humming-bird morphologically, is not to be com- 

 pared with what exists when thus contrasted, between such forms, 

 for example, as a man and an Ornithorhynchus among mammals, or 

 between a Lancelet and a Bass among fishes. Birds are an extremely 

 compact group, and the disposition is altogether too prevalent in 

 attempts to classify them, to accord too high rank to not a few of the 

 divisions above the family. Were birds fishes, the entire congrega- 

 tion of them, would hardly make more than a respectable order. 

 They are a lucky lot of closely affined volant feathered reptiles that 

 have specifically multiplied at a wonderful rate since they sprang 

 into existence, and as useful and as charming as the majority of them 

 are in nature, their taxonomy nevertheless has puzzled the wits of 

 many a man since Aristotle lived, and will doubtless continue to do 

 so in the years to come. To arrive at their true affinities and a 

 natural grouping of the class, it will be necessary to utilize every 

 fact that we possess in regard to their biology ; by this it is meant 

 every palreontological fact; every fact referring to geographical dis- 

 tribution for all time ; every morphological fact ; besides all that is 

 known of their biology, habits, and development. In so far as their 




1 898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 493 



i 



anatomy is concerned some of the systems have undoubtedly proved 

 to be of more value than others in the matter of classification. For 

 example, in this particular the study of the skeleton teaches us more 

 than a comparison of the dermal appendages, but the osseous 

 system is by no means all-sufficient to meet the ends of taxonomy 

 as some still seem to believe. With regard to this it is easy to agree 

 with what Professor Alfred Newton has said, when commenting 

 upon the value of the work left us by Nitzsch, for " there can be no 

 part of a bird's organization that by proper study would not help 

 to supply some means of solving the great question of its affinities. 

 This seems to the present writer to be one of the most certain general 

 truths in zoology, and is probably admitted in theory to be so by 

 most zoologists, but their practice is opposed to it ; for, whatever 

 group of animals be studied, it is found that one set or another of 

 characters is the' chief or favorite of the authors consulted — each 

 generally taking a separate set, and that to the exclusion of all 

 others, instead of effecting a combination of all the sets and taking 

 the aggregate." Thus it is, that notwithstanding the relative value 

 of the characters furnished on the part of any particular morpho- 

 logical system, as indicating interexisting affinities, that value is cer- 

 tain to be affected when the facts brought out by a study of another 

 system, as the muscular system, for example, are applied to it. As 

 evident as this is, however, we have not far to seek in order to dis- 

 cover avian classifiers who would be content to base their taxonomic 

 scheme of the class upon some single character of some special 

 system, as, for instance, De Blainville did in using only the body 

 of the sternum for the purpose. Such a practice lands one not very 

 far from the plane arrived at by Pliny in the first century. 



Doctor Alfred Russel Wallace in criticising this memoir of Mr. 

 Blanchard's in The Ibis for the year 1864, says very truly that we 

 should make the greatest errors in classification by following the 

 sternum alone, as " for example, the sterna of the Finches and the 

 Flycatchers are scarcely distinguishable, notwithstanding the great 

 dissimilarity in almost every part of the structure of these birds — 

 their bills, their feet, their plumage, their habits, food, and digestive 

 organs. On the other hand, the sterna of the several genera of the 

 Caprimulgidaa differ from each other more than those of the most 

 distinct families of the restricted Passeres. The Bee-eaters, the Bar- 

 bets, and the Woodpeckers, again, are three very distinct families, 

 which, in a classification founded upon all parts of a bird's organiza- 




494 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



tion, cannot be brought in close contact; and yet, their sterna, 

 according to Mr. Blanchard, much resemble each other. It is evi- 

 dent, therefore, that the whole structure of a bird and its correspond- 

 ing habits may be profoundly modified, and yet the sternum may 

 undergo the important changes, while the general organization and 

 habits are but little altered." So much for the value of single 

 anatomical systems in avian taxonomy, and so much for the value 

 of single characters in any system. Now as to the value of osteology 

 as a whole in the classification of birds, no ornithotomist or classifier 

 of this group of vertebrates will for a moment doubt. Employed in 

 its entirety the osseous system of Aves stands far in advance of any 

 other in settling the question of affinities and affording characters in 

 classification. It has been almost entirely through our studies of 

 the fossil skeletons of birds that we have been enabled to fix their 

 origin in time, or to link them with their extinct reptilian ancestors. 



The researches of the Parkers in the development of the embryo- 

 logical skeleton of birds ; of Huxley in the skull ; and the labors of 

 Macgillivray, Nitzsch, Merrem, De Blainville, L'Herminier, Cuvier, 

 St. Hilaire, Gervais, Blanchard, Eyton, Owen, Garrod, Forbes, Fiir- 

 bringer, Gadow, Lucas, Beddard, and many others upon the general 

 skeleton ; while the study of palseontological osteology by Milne- 

 Edwards, Cope, Marsh, and their colleagues in the same field, would, 

 when taken in the aggregate go far toward establishing a natural 

 classification, or rather toward indicating the true affinities of birds. 



Still in face of all this we must believe, that osteology is by no 

 means an all-sufficing guide, nor has it been in the mind of the pres- 

 ent writer in his attempts to discover the true kinships existing 

 among birds ; their systematic positions ; and the places the vari- 

 ous natural groups should occupy in any scheme of classification. 



On the contrary the aim has been to examine with care into the 

 results of the anatomical and general biological investigations of 

 birds by whomsoever they may have been undertaken and published, 

 so long as those researches seemed to have any bearing upon the 

 solution of the true affinities of the class. With this in view a very 

 wide field of literature has been considered, and the works of a great 

 many authors examined. All through this, osteology has held the 

 main place, but constantly subject to subordination when factors 

 drawn from other anatomical systems or from the general life-his- 

 tories of the bird-groups, possessed beyond all doubt greater weight 

 and significance. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 495 



Bearing this in mind, and from osteological premises, let us now 

 proceed to examine into the probable affinities of certain birds or 

 groups of birds and how we should classify them. An inquiry of 

 this kind would hardly seem to require any apology, in as much as 

 no two systematists of all those who have published a scheme of 

 classification for Aves, since 1867 when Professor Huxley gave us 

 his, agree upon the position in the system and the affinities of not 

 a few of the natural avian assemblages. Take for example the 

 Grebes and Loons. Huxley associated them with the Laridse, Pro- 

 cellariidse, and Alcidse in his Group Cecomorphse ; Garrod placed 

 them among the Ducks and Penguins, in the Anseres; Forbes in- 

 cluded the Heliornitidse with them, and created a new group Ere- 

 topodes ; Dr. Sclater retained them as a family Colymbida? with the 

 Alcida? in the order Pygopodes ; Reichenow did the same, but added 

 the Penguins to the group, and called the order Urinatores ; they 

 are a family of a superfamily, and associated with four other super- 

 families, of the Cecomorphse in Dr. Stejneger's scheme; Dr. Fur- 

 bringer giving still other new names for orders, suborders and genera, 

 places them between the Flamingoes and the extinct Hesperornith- 

 idse ; we find them among the Galliformes in Seebohm's arrange- 

 ment ; and finally considered as two separate orders by Dr. Sharpe. 

 Still other eminent taxonomers, as Cope, Professors Gadow and New- 

 ton, take different views of the subject. In 1890 Professor D'Arcy 

 W. Thompson and the present writer pointed out quite independ- 

 ently of each other the fact that the Loons and Grebes were descend- 

 ants of the Hesperornithidce, an opinion previously expressed by 

 Cope and Fiirbringer. At great variance with this, Professor New- 

 ton, Lydekker, and Marsh, contended that these extinct cretaceous 

 divers were some kind of a natatorial Ostrich. These so-called 

 ostrich or " struthions characters" have been a stumbling-block in 

 times past to more than one avian systematist, but I think their 

 real significance is gradually coming to be better appreciated as 

 time goes on. The great probability is, that there was a time in the 

 former history of the Class, possibly at about the age when Hesper- 

 ornis flourished, that all birds exhibited such characters in their 

 skeletons. They are retained now only in a few and widely separ- 

 ated groups or families, as the Kiwis, the Tinamus, Ostriches and 

 some others. 



Now apart from a general and superficial resemblance a typical 

 Loon and a typical Grebe are not, to judge from their osteology, as 




496 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



near akin as many seem to think. Differences of a very marked 

 character distinguish their skulls, their vertebral columns, their 

 sterna, their pelves, and their limb bones. Still there is a greater 

 similarity between the skeleton of a Loon and a Grebe than there 

 is between a Loon and any representative of the Alcas. About this 

 fact I have satisfied myself after having compared, character for 

 character, as they occur in the skeletons of several species of Loons 

 with the corresponding ones in a number of Grebes and both with 

 all the Auks found in our United States avifauna, save Cerorhinca. 

 D'Arcy Thompson has shown, beyond all question in my opinion, 

 in his paper, On the systematic position of Hesperornis, the affinity 

 of our modern or existing Colymbi with that ancient diver. It 

 would seem then that the time cannot be far distant when naturalists 

 can at least agree upon the relations that these birds bear to each 

 other and to kindred groups. To express this relationship, Loons 

 and Grebes should be associated in one and the same suborder, and 

 a superfamily created for either assemblage. In a linear classifica- 

 tion, I believe their nearest relatives are the Penguins upon the one 

 hand and the Auks upon the other, with the Heliornithidse in the 

 next place as a related branch, and one more nearly so than the 

 Laridse or the Proeellaridre. In part, this is believed by Dr. Stej- 

 neger, to be the relationship who, however, widely dissociates the Hes- 

 perornithidse. While this last relationship is fully appreciated 

 by Professor Fiirbriuger, that eminent authority nevertheless ap- 

 parently, sees no special affinity, between an Auk and a Loon or 

 Grebe, and so very widely separates the Colymbo-Podicipites and 

 the Laro-Limicolae assemblages. 



Passing: next to the anserine fowls, one would think that bv this 

 time there would be more or less unanimity of opinion among 

 systematic ornithologists as to the affinities and position of such a 

 homogeneous group. As a family, the existing Anatidse can but 

 contain the Mergansers, Ducks, Geese and Swans, while the outliers, 

 either existing or extinct, are not as a rule very puzzling forms. 

 The anserine affinities of Palamedea are now pretty generally re- 

 cognized ; and there can be no question as to the relationships of 

 the extinct Cnemiornis or Cereopsis. Moreover the relation borne 

 by the Flamingoes to the Anseres has been known for a good many 

 years past, and yet notwithstanding all this we find almost as much 

 diversity of opinion among the classifiers of birds as to where this 

 very natural group belongs, as has already been pointed out in 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 497 



regard to the Fygopodes. After a careful examination and com- 

 parison of the skeleton of Palamedea, all of our United States Ans- 

 eres except one or two species ; the Flamingoes including the extinct 

 ones, and Palseolodus; and a great many species and genera of 

 Herons, Ihises, Storks, Scopus, and their allies near and remote ; 

 and finally an equal number of the Steganopodes, I was led to 

 believe a year or two ago, that the duck tribe in its widest sense, 

 with the allied suborders containing the Palamedeidse, the Phceni- 

 copteridre and their fossil relatives, constituted a group, the nearest 

 related branches to which were the Steganopodes upon the one hand 

 and the Herodiones upon the other. An opinion, practically quite 

 similar to this is entertained by Dr. Sharpe and Dr. Stejneger, 

 while on the other hand, Dr. Gadow places the Anseriformes between 

 the Falconiformes upon the one hand and the Crypturiformes upon 

 the other, — which of course is an utterly different view of their 

 relationships. To discuss these latter here, is obviously out of the 

 question, as it would carry the present paper far beyond its limits. 



Fig. 2. 



Fig. 1. (Upper figure) Right lateral view of the skull of Dendrocygna 

 autumnalis, showing complete bony ring surrounding orbit. Pterygoids lost. 

 From a photograph by the author. § nat. size. 



Fig. 2. Right lateral view of part of trunk skeleton of same specimen. 

 § nat. size. 



Before turning from the Anseres, however, I desire to say that I 

 have found some interesting osteological points in the skeleton of 

 Dendrocygna autumnalis, — one of the tree-ducks. Although present- 




498 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



ing several anatomical peculiarities, this genus is one containing 

 several species of ducks, and ducks not so very far removed from 

 either the Teals, or the Mallard, or perhaps Spatula. There is very 

 little Goose, and still less Swan in the morphology of Dendroeygna, 

 and for what reason the genus has been placed between Philacte and 

 Olor in the Chech-List it is difficult for me to understand. In 

 the first edition of his Manual Mr. Ridgway places Dendroeygna, 

 the last genus in the duck-series where the synopses of characters of 

 the Anseres are set forth, while in the part devoted to the diagnoses 

 of species and genera, these Tree-ducks are placed between the 

 Swans and the Geese as in the Check-List. They have as I have 

 just said some peculiar characters about them, and of these, one of 

 the most interesting is the fact that they have complete bony rings 

 surrounding the orbits, as is the case in several genera of parrots 

 and some other birds. So far as I am aware it is the only genus of 

 ducks that presents this character, — indeed, the only anserine bird 

 that has it. 



Coming to the Cranes and Rails we meet with an interesting form 

 in Aramus giganteus. During the past few years I have compared 

 the skeletons of several hundred species of birds, and written out the 

 osteology of nearly every genus in this country, and among all these 

 have been included the entire Crane and Rail group with all the 

 North American birds in any way related to it. In this manner have 

 Grus, Aramus, Rallus, Porzana, Orex, Ionornis, Gallinula, Fulica, 

 and others been dealt with, and their skeletal characters arrayed in 

 tabular form in great detail. Without entering upon the general 

 taxonomy of this group, it is an interesting fact, that in so far as the 

 skeletal characters are concerned, Aramus presents two for every 

 one in favor of its affinity with Grus as compared with Rallus, yet 

 in nearly all avian classifications we find this bird arrayed with the 

 typical Rails. Four years ago I published in England, an abstract 

 in which was incorporated some of the facts here stated, with part 

 of a scheme for the classification of this group. Since then I have 

 examined a number of forms at that time not available, and although 

 they have not materially altered my original views, some changes 

 will necessarily have to be made in order to include these facts which 

 have since come before me. 



Of recent years nothing has come to my notice that seems likely 

 to again check the now growing opinion that the Woodpeckers, as 

 another assemblage of birds, see their nearest relatives in the Passeres, 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 499 



and they do not possess those vestiges of lacertilian morphology in 

 the bases of their crania that were formerly supposed to exist there. 

 The double vomers that a few years ago were attributed to them, 

 are now generally conceded to be nothing more than mesial edges 

 of the imperfectly ossified palatines, as was pointed out by Garrod 

 in 1872. In that year Garrod printed a brief paper in the Ibis, in 

 which he claimed that Gecinus viridis and its allies possessed 

 a median vomer, though it was differently formed from the bone as 

 it occurs among some of the Passerine birds. Nevertheless Dr. 

 Sharpe as late as 1891, in his extremely useful brochure, Recent 

 Attempts to Classify Birds, still claims saurognathism for the Pici, 

 although in the same paragraph he admits that in this entire sub- 

 order the " vomer is slender, pointed and split " (p. 84). It is not 

 difficult to believe that all of the alleged saurognathous characters 

 in the skull and associated bony arches of the woodpeckers are due 

 to changes wrought in time through the special habits of this 

 particular group of birds, rather than that they stand in evidence 

 as structural remnants inherited from their ancient reptilian ances- 

 tors. 




500 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



The following annual reports were read and referred to the Pub- 

 lication Committee : — 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



With a view to supplying matters of interest for the meetings of 

 the Academy and thereby increasing the attendance, the Committee 

 on Instruction and Lectures has been charged with the duty of pre- 

 paring an announcement of the programme for each month, postal 

 card notices being sent accordingly to the members. By this means 

 the average attendance has been slightly increased from 25 to 28, 

 the largest number being 135 and the smallest, at the midsummer 

 meetings, being 6. The communications presented and the discus- 

 sions based on them have frequently been interesting, but, except in 

 a few cases, they were not records of the results of original investiga- 

 tion and were not, therefore, prepared for publication in the Proceed- 

 ings of the Academy. The speakers during the past year were 

 Messrs Skinner, Goldsmith, Rand, Carter, Dixon, Ferrier, Heilprin, 

 Keeley, Woolman, Pilsbry, Chapman, Holman, Stewardson Brown, 

 Calvert, Stone, Frazer, Sharp, Palmer, Spiller, Mills, L. Witmer, 

 Barr, Holman, Lyman, Vaux, U. C. Smith, Willcox, Conklin, Mont- 

 gomery, Chas. Morris, Harned, J. Cheston Morris, Wells, Brinton, 

 J. Wharton James, Libbey, A. E. Brown, A. F. Witmer and Miss 

 Keller. 



Six hundred and fifty-two pages of the Proceedings illustrated by 

 twenty-seven plates have been issued. Twenty-five pages of the 

 Journal with one plate and a large number of text illustrations have 

 been printed and distributed in the form of an author's edition, the 

 entire expense of publication having been defrayed by Mr. Clarence 

 B. Moore, the continuation of his valuable work on the southern 

 burial mounds constituting the subject matter of the issue. 



It forms the first portion of the second number of Volume XI of 

 the Journal, the continuation, on which the printer is now engaged 

 consisting of Prof. Cope's posthumous paper on the fossils of the Port 

 Kennedy Bone Cave, to be illustrated by four plates of the remains 

 of the new species described, and one by Mr. H. C. Mercer on the 

 general characters of the cave, the mode of making the explora- 

 tions, and his methods of preserving and recording the results, with 

 text illustrations. These papers, it is hoped, will be distributed 

 early the coming year. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 501 



Fifty-six papers have been presented for publication during the 

 past year as follows : — Henry A. Pilsbry 6, Henry A. Pilsbry and 

 E. G. Vanatta 4, Gerrit S. Miller, Jr. 5, Clarence B. Moore 4, 

 Samuel N. Rhoads 4, Robert Baird McClain 3, John Van Denburgh 

 2, William J. Fox 2, Chas. S. Boyer 2, William H. Dall 2, Edw. 

 Goldsmith 1, Francis R. Cope, Jr. 1, Philip P. Calvert 1, Edw. J. 

 Nolan 1, John B. Smith 1, Daniel G. Brinton 1, Alviu Seal 1, T. 

 Chalkley Palmer 1, C. M. Barber and T. D. A. Cockerell 1, E. J. 

 Letson 1, Gary de N. Hough 1, E. G. Conklin 1, John W. Harsh- 

 berger 1, David Starr Jordan and J. A. Gunn, Jr. 1, J. Percy 

 Moore 1, C. Hart Merriam 1, Charles W. Johnson 1, Ida A. Keller 

 1, S. Harbert Hamilton 1, Henry C. Mercer 1, R. W. Shufeldt 1, 

 and Witmer Stone 1. 



Five of these form a portion of the Journal before alluded to, 

 three were returned to the author, one was withdrawn, one is now 

 about going to press, and one has been held over until next year. 

 The others have been printed in the Proceedings. It is gratifying to 

 find in this connection that representatives of departments of the 

 United States Government, and of several important educational 

 institutions including the Agricultural College of New Mexico, the 

 Leland Stanford, Jr. University, the Smithsonian Institution aud 

 the University of Pennsylvania have found it to their advantage to 

 avail themselves of the facilities for securing early date of publica- 

 tion afforded by the mode of issue and distribution of the Academy's 

 Proceedings. It is earnestly urged that as soon as the Academy's 

 means will permit, the numbers as issued be distributed free of 

 charge to all members of the society in good standing. 



The Entomological Section (Am. Entomological Society) has 

 issued 231 pages and 11 plates of the Entomological News, 128 pages 

 and 2 plates of the Transactions, and 202 pages of special papers. 



The publications of the Conchological Section during the year have 

 consisted of 143 pages and 27 plates of the Manual of Conchology. 

 This gives a total, exclusive of the Journal, of 1,356 pages and 67 

 plates issued since Dec. 1, 1897. 



The present statistics of distribution of the Academy's publica- 

 tions proper are as follows : — 



Proceedings, mailed to subscribers 81 



" mailed to exchanges 100 



sent to exchanges through the Inter- 

 national Bureau (Smithsonian Inst.) 444 



Total, 625 




502 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Journals, mailed to subscribers 34 



" mailed to exchanges 14 



" sent to exchanges through Inter- 

 national Bureau (Smithsonian Inst.) . . 52 



Total, 100 



The edition of the Proceedings is 1,000 copies, of the Journal 500. 



The stock of the publicationsof the Academy had been removed 

 in the fall of 1897 to the basement of the new building so as to make 

 room for the office of the Executive Curator and for the growth of 

 the library. Roomy and convenient storage cases had been pro- 

 vided, a new account of stock had been taken, and it was believed 

 that this important part of the Academy's possessions was at last 

 safely and permanently placed, with sufficient room for the additions 

 of many years to come and without danger of being again crowded 

 out by the growth of other departments. It was found later that 

 the basement was not entirely free from suspicion of dampness and 

 that the dust found its way through even comparatively air tight 

 doors and would therefore be objectionable. These evils might 

 have been remedied, but it was impossible to provide against the 

 accident which has made another removal absolutely necessary. 



It occurred on the third of last August in the form of the 

 heaviest rain-fall ever known in this region. Its suddenness and 

 volume was that of a tropical storm. Streets became rapid torrents, 

 the fence on the south side of the Academy's premises was torn 

 down, the excavated lot rapidly filled, with no outlet except through 

 the basement of the new museum building, where the water in a few 

 minutes reached a height of three feet. The publications on the 

 lower range of shelves were soaked, and before they could be re- 

 moved to the upper floors, where as rapidly as possible they were 

 spread out to dry, they sustained further damage from the mildew 

 consequent on the high temperature and humidity of the season. 

 The recent illustrations by photographic processes will have to be 

 replaced in both Proceedings and Journal as the peculiarly pre- 

 pared paper has been welded by the dampness and pressure into 

 masses of cardboard while the older lithographic plates printed 

 on honest linen paper are comparatively uninjured. The damaged 

 numbers have been placed in piles on the upper floors of the 

 new museum building where they are at present safe from further 

 injury except to some slight extent from dust ; but the necessity for 

 providing space for the entire stock of the back publications of the 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 503 



Academy which will be at once permanent, safe and convenient is 

 one that must be provided for immediately. The importance of 

 this matter is paramount in view of the fact that the reputation of 

 the Academy as a scientific institution depends more on the char- 

 acter of its publications, embodying as they do the notable work of 

 its members during eighty-seven years of its existence, than upon the 

 extent of its library and museum. Its publications keep it in com- 

 munication with other scientific societies ; they form the basis of its 

 exchange in the intellectual markets of the world and place it on a 

 far higher plane than that of a mere local club of naturalists. 



Pending an arrangement of the damaged publications on shelves 

 to be provided for them I have not been able to form estimate of the 

 cost of repair. The electro-blocks of the plates which must be re- 

 placed have been preserved, so that the printing alone will have 

 to be provided for. 



Twenty-one members have been elected. The deaths of eleven 

 members have been announced, four have been dropped and the 

 resignations of nine have been accepted, as follows: — Julius F. 

 Sachse, Charles P. Turnbull, Mrs. L. L. W. Wilson, Charles W. 

 Dulles, Ellen W. Longstreth, Charles Coulter, Ruth Clement, J. 

 Howard Breed and J. Lewis Crew. This leaves a net loss of three 

 from the membership roll. The deaths of nine correspondents have 

 been reported. 



At the instance of the Secretary of the American Association for 

 the Advancement of Science a committee consisting of Messrs. 

 Meehan, McCook, Wilson, Skinner and Nolan was appointed early 

 in the summer to secure the co-operation of the city authorities and 

 representatives of educational establishments with a view to inviting 

 the Association to meet in Philadelphia in 1899. The invitation 

 was conveyed by a representative of a joint Committee but was not 

 accepted, the place selected for the meeting being Columbus, Ohio. 



The Hayden Memorial Medal was conferred, in accordance with 

 the recommodation of the Committee on Award, on Prof. Otto 

 Martin Torell, the Chief of the Geological Survey of Sweden. 



A note of thanks was unanimously tendered to Miss Anna T. 

 Jeanes for her munificent gift of $20,000 the income of which is to 

 be expended for the improvement and increase of the museum. 



The President of the Academy and Mr. William Wynne Wister, 

 Jr. have been appointed Managers on behalf of the Academy of the 

 Wistar Institute of Anatomy under the deed of endowment. 




504 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



The President was authorized to memorialize Congress for aid in 

 the establishment of a Floating Institute as defined in a communica- 

 tion from the 7th International Congress of Geologists held last year 

 in St. Petersburg. 



Edward J. Nolan, 



Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



During the past year, commencing Dec. 1, 1897, there have 

 been received from eighty-five societies, museums, libraries, etc., one 

 hundred and fifty-four acknowledgements of the receipt of the pub- 

 lications of the Academy, and from forty societies, libraries, etc., 

 forty-nine notices that their publications have been forwarded to the 

 Academy. Twenty-seven applications for exchange and for supply 

 of deficiencies in sets of the Academy's publications, together with 

 nine letters on miscellaneous subjects, fourteen circulars and invita- 

 tions to the Academy to participate in Congresses or meetings, and 

 several announcements of the deaths of scientific men have also been 

 received and when necessary answered. 



The deaths of the following correspondents have been reported : 



Charles E. Beddome, of Hobart Town, Tasmania; elected 1883, 

 died Sept. 1, 1898. 



Ernest Cand&z, of Liege, Belgium ; elected 1877, died June 30, 

 1898. 



Joseph Charles Hippolyte Crosse, of Paris, France ; elected 1867, 

 died Aug. 7, 1898. 



James Hall, of Albany, New York; elected 1843, died August 

 7, 1898. 



Rudolph Leuckart, of Leipzig, Germany ; elected 1884, died 

 June, 1898. 



Jules Marcou, of Cambridge, Mass.; elected 1860, died April 17, 

 1898. 



R. P. Montrouzier, of New Caledonia; elected 1867, died 1898. 



Osbert Sal viu, of London, England; elected 1867, died June 1, 

 1898. 



Karl Ludwig Fridoliu von Sandberger, of Wuerzburg, Germany, 

 elected 1855, died April 11, 1898. 



Six hundred and eighty-eight acknowledgements for gifts to the 



library and sixty-three for gifts to the museum have been forwarded. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Benj. Sharp, 

 Corresponding Secretary. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



505 



The accessions to the library of the Academy during the year 

 since the first of December, 1897, number 4,469 of which 3,946 were 

 pamphlets, 517 volumes and 6 detached maps. 



They have been received from the following sources: — 



Societies, 1,917 



I. V. Williamson Fund, . 1,138 



Editors, 790 



Authors, 230 



Angelo Heilprin, . . . 101 

 U. S. Dept. of Agricult- 

 ure, 53 



James A i t k e n Meigs 



Fund, 44 



Estate of Geo. A. Rex, . 27 

 U. S. Department of the 



Interior, 23 



Department of Mines 



Victoria, 20 



Geological Survey of 



Sweden, 14 



U. S. Department of 



State, 14 



Wilson Fund, .... 13 

 Ministry of Public Works, 



France, 11 



Geological Survey of 



India, 7 



U. S. Department of 



Labor, 6 



Comite Geologique Russe, 6 



Department o f Mines, 



New South Wales, . . 5 



Department of Geology, 



Indiana, 4 



U. S. Commission of Fish 



and Fisheries, ... 3 

 Secretary of State, Mex- 

 ico, 3 



33 



Chas. P. Perot, .... 



Geological Survey of New 

 Jersey, 



University Geological 

 Survey of Kansas, . . 



East Indian Government, 



Dr. D. B. McCartee, . . 



U. S. War Department, . 



U. S. Treasury Depart- 

 ment, 



U. S. Interstate Commis- 

 sion, 



U. S. Civil Service Com- 

 mission, 



S. P. Langley, .... 



Queensland Government, 



Commissioners of Inland 

 Fisheries and Game, 

 Mass., 



Librarian of Congress, . 



Geological Survey o f 

 Canada, 



Geological Survey of Por- 

 tugal, 



Department of Mines, 

 Nova Scotia, . . . 



Thomas Meehan, . . . 



Trustees of the British 

 Museum, 



Illinois State Bureau of 

 Labor, 



Mrs. C. F. Palmer, . . 



Wm. J, Fox, , , . . 



2 



2 



2 

 2 




506 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



M. E. Wadsworth, . . 1 

 Geological Survey of 



Mexico, 1 



Iowa Geological Survey, 1 



H. A. Pilsbry, .... 1 



T. D. Rand, 1 



Edw. J. Nolan, ... 1 



The Editor Publishing 

 Co., Cincinnati, O., 



Smith, Elder & Co., Lon- 

 don, 



Estate of John H. Red- 

 field 



Southern Rail Road, Co., 



1 

 1 



They were distributed to the several departments of the library as 

 follows : — 



Journals, 3,639 



Geology, 196 



Botany, 120 



General Natural History, 91 



Agriculture, .... 56 



Entomology, .... 37 



Mammalogy, .... 37 



Anthropology, .... 30 



Conchology, 28 



Anatomy and Physiology, 27 



Voyages and Travels, . 20 



Encyclopedias, .... 18 



Medicine, 18 



Physical Science, ... 18 



Mineralogy, 17 



Herpetology, .... 16 



Helrainthology, ... 15 



Ichthyology, .... 14 



Ornithology, .... 11 



Geography, 5 



Chemistry, 1 



Bibliography, .... 1 

 Miscellaneous (unclass- 

 ified), 36 



The decrease during the year in the number of accessions is partly 

 due to a curtailment of the amount appropriated for the purchase 

 of books and partly to the fact that deficiencies in the publications 

 of corresponding societies, persistently asked for, had been in a great 

 measure previously supplied, at all events as far as they are likely to 

 be, except by purchase from second hand dealers. 



The facilities for cataloguing have been greatly increased by the 

 purchase of improved cases which not only accommodate the card 

 entries of all the books and pamphlets now in the library but 

 provide ample space for the growth of at least the next fifty years. 



The necessity for increased shelf room, to which attention was 

 called in my last report, becomes more pressing, especially in the 

 department of Journals. In many instances the accessions are now 

 packed away in such form as to be difficult of access, the disadvant- 

 age being greatly increased by the lack of means for necessary bind- 

 ing. It is strongly urged that both these need : more cases and a 

 larger appropriation for binding, be supplied at an early date, 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 507 



Some little relief in the way of additional room has been secured 

 by the selecting out and packing away of a number of volumes of 

 official documents, State executive reports, miscellaneous literature, 

 and other material entirely unconnected with the Academy's func- 

 tion. It is suggested that these be disposed of to some library where 

 they will not be so entirely out of place and where they are likely 

 to be looked for by those interested in them. 



A large collection of duplicate volumes and pamphlets numbering 

 1,096 titles have been arranged and catalogued. It is hoped that 

 means may be furnished for the printing of the list. There is no 

 doubt that the expense would be refunded by sales, while the books 

 would be so distributed as to confer benefit on these acquiring them 

 instead of lying, as now, useless in our storage room. 



While the binding during the year of 174 volumes has been un- 

 usually small in amount, it has been unusually important in char- 

 acter, twelve volumes of Gould's folios, embracing the Birds of New 

 Guinea in five volumes and the Birds of Asia in seven, have been 

 bound in a manner befitting the artistic beauty of the works. The 

 expense was defrayed from the Wilson Fund, to which the books 

 themselves were credited, thus materially curtailing the amount 

 available from that source for the purchase of additions. The un- 

 bound numbers had, however, been practically inaccessible to students 

 since the completion of the works, whereas they now form an avail- 

 able portion of the ornithological library and a superb addition to 

 the collection of finely illustrated folios which, thanks to the taste 

 and liberality of Dr. Thomas B. Wilson, is one of our notable posses- 

 sions. 



A careful enumeration of the library during the year furnishes 

 the following results : — 




508 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Ornithology, .... 



Encyclopedias, Dictionaries, etc., 



Bibliography, 



Mineralogy, 



Physical Science, 



Geography, 



Agriculture, . 



Ichthyology, . 



Mammalogy, . 



Helminthology, 



Chemistry, 



Herpetology, . 



Unclassified, . 



Warner Library, mostly Mathemat 



cs, 



Volumes formed by collection of pam- 

 phlets, ...... 



Volumes in library of Entomological Sec- 

 tion (Am. Ent. Soc), 



Volumes in James Aitken Meigs' library, 



Total, 48,220 



Nearly all the pamphlets above enumerated are bound, the entire 

 collection forming, as noted, 958 volumes. 



The library of the Entomological Section (American Entomolog- 

 ical Society) comprises 2,864 volumes, many of them, however, being 

 duplicates of those elsewhere credited. 



The James Aitken Meigs' library of miscellaneous literature is 

 entirely foreign to the province of the Academy, the scientific por- 

 tions of it having been catalogued and placed when received with 

 the special sections of the main library of which they now form a 

 part. The miscellaneous portion is retained and kept together out 

 of regard for the wishes of the donor John G. Meigs. A shelf list 

 has been prepared but it has not been otherwise catalogued although 

 there is a large amount of material in the collection of indirect 

 interest, sufficient indeed to warrant the preparation of an author 

 and subject catalogue when time can be secured from more pressing 

 matters. 



Excluding, therefore, if it be thought proper, the two sections last 

 referred to, the working library of the Academy contained when 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 509 



counted last August, 43, 381 volumes. The last previous enumera- 

 tion was made in 1888 when there were 30,831 volumes on the 

 shelves; the addition of 12,550 volumes, therefore, in ten years, is a 

 gratifying rate of increase in view of the strictly special character 

 of the library. 



In two lectures on the literature of natural history delivered in 

 November as introductory to the Academy's Ludwick Institute 

 courses for the year, I had the pleasure of commenting on some of 

 the bibliographical treasures of the library while defining the scope 

 and purpose of such a collection. The Academy is to be congratu- 

 lated on the fact that there is probably no other in America from 

 which the subject could be illustrated so amply. 



It gives me renewed pleasure to again acknowledge my indebted- 

 ness to Mr. Wm. J. Fox for efficient assistance during the year. 



Edw. J. Nolan, 



Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The Curators are able to report the collections under their care to 

 be in an excellent state of preservation. 



Besides the preparation and cataloguing of new material received 

 during the year, it has been possible to devote considerable atten- 

 tion to the re-arrangement of several departments of the museum. 



Following the plan adopted last year, about half of the wall cases 

 were removed from the upper gallery of the old museum and erected 

 in the new basement, thus completing the Alcoholic department as 

 originally planned. All the remaining Alcoholics, comprising the 

 Reptilia, Batrachia, Mammalia, and Invertebrata were transferred 

 to these cases. The systematic arrangement of the Fishes and 

 Invertebrata has been completed, the latter as well as the Reptilia 

 and Batrachia having been catalogued during the year. 



It might be added that the entire zoological collection of the 

 Academy has now been catalogued, except a part of the Mollusca, 

 the dry Invertebrate preparations, and the Osteological preparations 

 of Fish, Reptiles, and Batrachians. 



The magnitude of this work can be appreciated when it is learned 

 that the combined number of catalogue entries of the vertebrates 

 amounts to sixty-five thousand six hundred. 




510 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Fifteen half-upright cases were purchased duriDg the year, in 

 which it is intended to arrange the dried specimens of Lower Inver- 

 brates, the duplicates being stored in closets, which have been pro- 

 vided underneath the cases. Part of this transfer has been already 

 accomplished and when completed it will permit the removal of the 

 remaining wall cases where the Invertebrata have been stored 

 heretofore. 



Two new museum cases have been placed in position on the mam- 

 mal floor in which are arranged the higher Quadrumana and 

 Carnivora. One of these was provided through the Mary Jeanes 

 Fund, established this year by Anna T. Jeanes for general museum 

 purposes. The fund will enable us to make much more progress in 

 future in furnishing the new building and in accommodating our 

 rapidly increasing collection. Another improvement in the Mammal 

 department has been the placing on exhibition of the Pacific Walrus 

 obtained by Dr. Sharp and Mr. J. M. Justice. 



In the Archseological Department Mr. Clarence B. Moore has 

 presented an upright case for the reception of some of the material 

 which he has added to the Moore Collection during the year. Mr. 

 Johnson has continued to devote much time to the arrangement of 

 the Isaac Lea Eocene Collection, which has been largely increased 

 during the year through the liberality of the Rev. Dr. L. T. Cham- 

 berlain. This collection now occupies four large double mahogany 

 cases contributed by Dr. Chamberlain, and is undoubtedly the most 

 complete and important series of American Eocene mollusca in 

 existence, while it also contains the largest series in America of 

 European Eocene shells. Mr. Johnson has also been engaged to 

 re-arrange the Academy's series of Tertiary Invertebrates. 



In the Botanical rooms a series of nine cases has been erected for 

 the accommodation of the herbarium, which has outgrown its old 

 quarters. 



Temporary cases have also been fitted up in the Ornithological 

 room for skins of large birds. Much time has been devoted by the 

 several Conservators to the care of the specimens in their special 

 departments. 



The Curators regret to have to report that much damage was done 

 to furniture and material stored in the basement by the severe flood 

 of August 3rd. The extraordinary rainfall flooded the city sewers 

 and filled the streets to the depth of eighteen inches, from which it 

 forced a way into the cellars and basement. The damage has, how- 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 511 



ever, been repaired so far as possible, and the actual loss of specimens 

 seems to be very slight, though much time was consumed and im- 

 portant museum work seriously hindered. 



Owing to the necessity for removal of the publications from the 

 basement several closets in the new building as well as considerable 

 space on the top floor have been devoted to their accommodation. 



The additions to the museum during the year have been particu- 

 larly noteworthy as will be seen by reference to the accompanying 

 list. Most important are the valuable collections of Mammals, 

 Birds, Reptiles and Fishes bequeathed to the Academy by the late 

 Prof. Edw. D. Cope, which number about eight thousand specimens 

 and include many of his types. The collection of vertebrate prepara- 

 tions formed Dr. Harrison Allen and presented by Mrs. Allen is 

 another important accession. A valuable series of birds from Mon- 

 golia was received from Dr. A. D. Smith and the Messrs. Edward 

 & George Farnum, and a number of Japanese plants and verte- 

 brates from Miss A. Hartshorne. An important collection of over 

 300 South Australian invertebrates, mainly mollusks, has been 

 obtained from Mr. W. T. Bednall. The Zoological Society of 

 Philadelphia has presented numerous specimens during the year, 

 which have been prepared in the taxidermical department. In the 

 Botanical department the most important addition has been the 

 entire collection of Lichens made by Dr. J. W. Eckfeldt, the well 

 known authority upon this group. 



Another accession of especial importance is a collection of Reptiles 

 and Batrachians numbering several hundred specimens, presented by 

 Mr. Arthur E. Brown. 



Efficient service has been rendered by the Jessup students, Messrs. 

 W. J. Gerhard, H. W. Fowler, S. H. Hamilton, E. G. Vanatta and 

 A. F. Satterthwait in their several special departments. 



During the year specimens have been loaned for study to the fol- 

 lowing : Dr. J. A. Allen, M. L. Fernald, Dr. C. Hart Merriam, H. 

 C Oberholzer, E. W. Nelson, F. L. Scribner, Elizabeth G. Britton, 

 F. A. Lucas, W. H. Dall, H. T. Osborn, Walter Rothschild, Alfred 

 Newton, G. S. Miller, Outram Bangs, Katharine J. Bush, Dr. G. N. 

 Best, P. A. Rydberg, Dr. J. F. Whiteaves, G. D. Harris, Dr. G. M. 

 Dawson and E. P. Bicknell. 



Henry C. Chapman, M. D., 



Chairman of the Curators. 




512 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1898. 



REPORT ON THE WM. S. VAUX COLLECTIONS. 



The Curator of the William S. Vaux Collection begs leave to 

 report that since November 30th, 1896 he has added to it by pur- 

 chase one hundred and twenty-five specimens. Although the 

 number is not as large as in former years, yet the quality of the spec- 

 imens is better, a number of them being species new to the collec- 

 tion including several extra fine large crystals. 



As reported by the Curators several fine new cases were pur- 

 chased during 1897 for the display of the various large specimens 

 which had formerly been exposed. 



The collection now numbers 8,091 specimens all in good order 

 with the exception of two marcasites which have decomposed. 



There have been no additions to the Archaeological Collection 

 since my last report though it continues to attract much attention 



from visitors. 



Wm. W. Jefferis, 



Curator. 



REPORT OF THE BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL 



SECTION. 



The Section has held ten meetings during the year. The new 

 room upon the second floor has been partially furnished and the 

 collections placed therein. It is expected that upon the completion 

 of anticipated improvements the accommodations for biological 

 investigations may be made of permanent value to the members and 

 increase the interest of the stated meetings. 



During the year numerous communications have been made, of 

 which the following were presented at the meetings of the Academy: — 



" On the Structure of Diatoms," by Mr. F. J. Keeley. 



"Observations on Errant Frustules of Eunotia major," and 

 " Conjugation of Closterium acerosum," by Mr. T. Chalkley Palmer. 



"New Species of Diatoms," by Mr. Charles S. Boyer. 



" On Isthemia nervosa in Hudson Strait," by Mr. John A. Shulze. 



" Old and New Microscopes and Methods of Preparation," by Dr. 

 J. Chestou Morris. 



Other communications of interest were made by Dr. Morris, Mr. 

 Holman and Mr. Woolman. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 513 



The Conservator reports the loan to the Section of two microscopes 

 by Dr. Morris, 'which are of value as models of ancient and peculiar 

 construction. Mr. Shumo presented numerous specimens brought 

 by him from Jamaica. 



The Section has lust by death Mr. Chas. P. Perot, for a long time 

 our Treasurer and valued member. Resolutions of respect were 

 passed and presented at the meeting of the Academy. 



The following officers were elected for the ensuing year: — 



Director, ..... J. Cheston Morris, M. D. 



Vice-Director, 

 Treasurer, . 

 Conservator, 



Corresponding Secretary, 

 Recorder, . 



T. Chalkley Palmer. 

 Lewis Woolman. 

 F. J. Keeley. 

 John G. Rothermel. 

 Charles S. Boyer. 



Charles S. Boyer, 



Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



Work on the collection during the past year has been confined 

 mainly to the reidentification of the Bulimulidai and other groups 

 monographed in the Manual of Conchology, the rearrangement of 

 part of the fresh-water shells, and the renovation and cataloguing 

 of the alcoholic mollusks. 



The accessions to the conchological museum have been important, 

 though no single collection of great size has been received. A large 

 number of new species and species new to the collection having been 

 secured. Additions to our North American series have been made 

 by Messrs. J. H. Ferris, R. C. McGregor, E. H. Ashmun and P. B. 

 Randolph, whose collections from the Great Smoky Mountains, 

 northern California, New Mexico and Alaska respectively, are worthy 

 of special mention among those of the large number of naturalists 

 who have added to our American series. Dr. H. von Ihering has 

 continued to send valuabe South American consignments, including 

 a large series of alcoholic land snails from Brazil. The New Zea- 

 land collection received from Mr. H. Suter, and the Australian 

 species from Messrs. W. T. Bednall and J. C. Cox, with a large 

 number of land shells new to the collection, purchased by the Con- 

 chological Section and the Academy, materially augment the series 

 of non-American mollusks. 




514 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Throughout the year the Conservator has been efficiently assisted 

 by Mr. E. G. Vanatta. 



The accessions of the year are enumerated in the list of additions 

 to the Museum. 



The following officers were elected at the annual meeting in Dec- 

 ember : — 



Director, ...... Benjamin Sharp, M. D. 



Vice- Director, 

 Recorder and Librarian, 

 Corresponding Secretary, 

 Treasurer, 



John Ford. 

 Edw. J. Nolan, M. D. 

 Chas. W. Johnson. 

 S. Raymond Roberts. 

 Henry A. Pilsby, 



Conservator. 



REPORT OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION. 



This has been a very busy year in the history of the Entomolog- 

 ical Section. The collections have been well cared for with the 

 assistance of Mr. W. J. Gerhard and Mr. Alfred Satterthwaite, 

 and by individual members interested in special branches of entomo- 

 logy. The rearrangement of the American Coleoptera is nearly 

 completed and valuable work has been done on the exotic species by 

 Dr. H. G. Griffith. The unarranged material in the Horn Collec- 

 tion has been placed in safe receptacles preparatory to proper in- 

 corporation in the main collection. Special groups in this collection 

 have been loaned to specialists for study and revision. Many 

 families in the Diptera have been rearranged by Mr. C. W. John- 

 son, in new book boxes purchased for the purpose. Two large 

 boxes of Hemiptera have been purchased, representing a large 

 number of specimens, quite a number of them being new to the 

 collection. The Membracidse have been arranged by Mr. Gerhard 

 with the aid of Dr. F. W. Goding, an authority on this subject. 

 The Neuroptera, other than the Odonata, and the Orthoptera have 

 been properly placed in new receptacles by the Conservator. 



Prof. James S. Hine has studied and properly identified our 

 material in the genus Bittacus, of which we now have a representa- 

 tive collection. Dr. Calvert has had the care of the Odonata; our 

 collection in this branch is among the very finest in the world. 

 In the Lepidoptera we are indebted to Prof. C. H. Fernald, of Am- 

 herst, Mass. who has studied and revised the Pterophoridse, a very 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 515 



difficult group. The material has been returned in good condition. 

 Mr. Gerhard, with the aid of the Conservator, has put in fine order 

 the Hesperida? of the world. This is a part of the Martindale col- 

 lection. Much work has also been done on the other families in this 

 fine collection. Mr. Satterthwaite is engaged in rearranging the 

 exotic moths in this collection and has thus far finished the Sphin- 

 gidse. Fifty new boxes and a fine cabinet have been purchased to 

 contain the Hymenoptera and Mr. E. T. Cresson is now engaged in 

 their rearrangement. Mr. Fox has made some valuable contribu- 

 tions to science by his studies in this Order. 



Numerous specimens have been added to the cabinet, the more im- 

 portant donations being a collection of American Coleoptera from 

 Dr. Eckfeldt; 61 specimens of Honduras Lepidoptera by Dr. H. 

 G. Griffith ; 68 Hesperidse from Colima, Mexico, from Henry Skin- 

 ner ; 124 Beetles, 10 Hemiptera, 3 0rthoptera, 1 Hymenoptera from 

 Dr. A. D. Smith and the Farnum brothers, all from Manchuria ; 

 9 Coleoptera by W. F. Bednall, from Australia. 



Many valuable works have been added to the library ; nine 

 hundred and thirty-three have been the gift of the late Dr. Geo. H. 

 Horn. One hundred and seventy works have been bound. Valu- 

 able books have been purchased, some of them not being repres- 

 ented in other libraries in this country, the amount expended being 

 $529.93. The Entomological News has been continued and the 

 ninth volume completed with 264 pages and 12 plates. The present 

 space devoted to the Entomological Section is inadequate, owing to 

 its rapid growth in all departments. 



At the annual election held Dec. 22nd. the following persons were 

 elected officers for the year 1 899 : — 



Director, Philip Laurent 



Vice-Director, 

 Recorder, 

 Treasurer, 

 Secretary, 

 Conservator, . 



H. W. Wenzel. 

 Henry Skinner. 

 Ezra T. Cresson. 

 Wm. J. Fox. 

 Henry Skinner. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



Henry Skinner. 



Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION. 



The Botanical Section of the Academy reports a fair amount of 

 progress as detailed in the Conservator's report, attached as part 

 of this document. 




516 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



The arrangement and fastening down of the specimens, begun bj 

 Mr. Redfield many years ago, has now been carried down as far as 

 Solanaceoe. In this good work Mr. Uselma C Smith has rendered 

 valuable aid to the Director. If a salaried Conservator could be 

 engaged to direct a number of volunteers this great work of the 

 Academy might be completed within a short time. 



The Section is out of debt with a small balance in the Treasury. 

 The officers for the ensuing year are : 



Director, ..... Thomas Meehan. 



Charles E. Smith. 

 Charles Schaeffer, M. D. 

 Jos. D. Crawford. 

 Stewardson Brown. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



Thomas Meehan, 



Director. 



Vice-Director, . 

 Recorder, 



Corresponding Secretary, 

 Conservator and Treasurer, 



Report of the Conservator. — In presenting this report for the year 

 1898 the Conservator of the Botanical Section wishes to express his 

 appreciation of the aid rendered by the Curators of the Academy in 

 the furnishing of additional cases for the accommodation of the her- 

 barium in the new botanical room on the Library floor formerly 

 occupied by the Entomological Section. 



These cases which were completed in the early part of the year, 

 have rendered necessary the rearrangement of the herbarium, which 

 has been accomplished through the aid of the Director of the Section, 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan. The consolidation of the North American 

 herbarium, formerly kept in the room on the gallery floor, with the 

 general herbarium, will be found to be a great convenience to those 

 making use of the collections. This latter work, which is necessarily 

 slow, will be completed during the present winter. 



The rearrangement of the collections, notwithstanding the addi- 

 tional cases furnished, has made it necessary to remove the speci- 

 mens of vascular Cryptogams to the cases on the gallery floor 

 formerly occupied by the North American Herbarium, the Phanero- 

 gams being disposed of in the cases in the two rooms on the library 

 floor. 



The work of arranging the collections deposited in 1897 by the 

 American Philosophical Society has satisfactorily progressed, and, it 

 is hoped, will be completed by the end of the coming year. 



The mounting of the general herbarium has been somewhat 

 retarded during the year owing to the enforced absence of the assist- 

 ant in the herbarium, due to illness. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 517 



The herbarium of the Philadelphia Botanical Club has not hereto- 

 fore been referred to, and I wish, therefore, to here call special 

 attention to the excellent work being done by the members of this 

 organization. 



The plants comprising this collection are from points within a 

 radius of about a hundred miles of the city, including Pennsylvania 

 east from the Susquehanna River and south of the Blue Ridge, all 

 of New Jersey south of the same range of mountains, and the north- 

 ern counties of Delaware and eastern Maryland. 



The lack of specimens of our local plants in the herbarium of the 

 Academy, created the necessity of such a collection, Avhich now 

 numbers many thousand specimens from all sections of the district 

 and it is hoped in time to make it the most complete collection of 

 its kind extant. 



The noteworthy additions to the herbarium during the year 

 have been a collection of Japanese plants presented through Miss A. 

 C. Hartshorne, a collection of South African plants purchased and 

 presented by Mr. Thomas Meehan, and many plants our own con- 

 tinent presented by Messrs. Joseph Crawford, C. F. Saunders and 

 Stewardson Brown. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Stewardson Brown, 

 Conservator. 



REPORT OF THE MINERALOGICAL AND GEOLOG- 

 ICAL SECTION. 



The Director of the Mineralogical and Geological Section of the 

 Academy would respectfully report that meetings have been held 

 regularly during the year, except during the summer ; that the 

 attendance has been good, and the interest manifested encouraging. 



On May 21st the Section under the leadership of Prof. Fred. B. 

 Peck of Lafayette College visited a number of interesting localities 

 around Easton, Pa. 



Additions to the museum have been valuable but not as numerous 

 as in former years. 



The following officers were duly elected for the coming year : — 



Director, ...... Theodore D. Rand. 



Vice-Director. 

 Recorder, 

 Conservator, 

 Treasurer, 



W. W. JefFeris. 

 Charles SchafFer. 

 W. W. Jefferis. 

 John Ford. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



Theo. D. Rand. 



Director. 




518 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



REPORT OF THE ORNITHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The work of the Section during the past year has been mainly 

 devoted to the study collection. But little progress has been made in 

 the rearrangement of the exhibition collection of birds owing to the 

 need of cases on the third floor of the new building. 



A synoptical collection has been arranged there, as promised in 

 last year's report, but the main series of mounted birds is still 

 in the old gallery. Though not displayed to advantage it remains 

 in an excellent state of preservation. 



The study collection has been carefully examined and better pro- 

 vision made for many of the large skins. Most of the Conservator's 

 work this year has been devoted to a study of the types in the collec- 

 tion which have been carefully identified and arranged in special 

 cases, the results of this work having been embodied in a paper 

 which will appear in the Proceedings. 



The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club has made many addi- 

 tions to the collection presented by it to the Academy so that it is 

 now probably the most complete exhibition of its kind in existence. 

 The meetings of the Club continue to be held at the Academy and 

 do much to stimulate ornithological study. 



The Section is also much gratified to be able to report that through 

 its efforts the annual meeting of the American Ornithologists' 

 Union will be held at the Academy in Nov., 1899. The importance 

 of this meeting to local ornithologists and to the Academy will be 

 readily understood. 



During the year the most important accession has been the collec- 

 tion of bird skins bequeathed by the late Prof. E. D. Cope number- 

 ing nearly 1,000 specimens and containing the once famous collec- 

 tion of C. S. Turnbull. 



Of great importance also is a small series of specimens from Man- 

 churia received from Dr. A. Donaldson Smith and the Messrs. Far- 

 num. Valuable specimens were also received from the Zoological 

 Society of Philadelphia, Dr. J. E. Romig and others. 



The magnificient collection of North American land birds formed 

 by Mr. Josiah Hoopes has been received on deposit. 



At the annual meeting held Dec. 19, 1898, the following officers 

 were elected : — 



Director, ...... Spencer Trotter. 



Vice-Director, ...... Geo. S. Morris, 




1898.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 519 



Recorder, Stewardson Brown. 



Secretary, Wm. A. Shryock. 



Treasurer and Conservator, . . . Witmer Stone. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Witmer Stone. 



Conservator. 



REPORTS OF THE PROFESSORS. 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Professor in the Department of Mollusca, 

 reports that during the year he has delivered a course of lect- 

 ures upon bivalve mollusks. Several special reports upon par- 

 ticular groups of mollusks, based upon material in the collection of 

 the Academy, have been prepared and published in the Proceedings 

 of the Academy. Progress in the classification of the collection has 

 been made, the details of which may be found in the report of the 

 Conservator of the Conchological Section. 



Daniel G. Brinton, M. D., Professor of Ethnology, reports 

 that during the year 1898 a course of lectures, free to the public, 

 was delivered by him on various ethnological subjects, in the Hall 

 of the Academy. They were well attended, and considerable inter- 

 est was shown. 



The collections in this department are well displayed and care- 

 fully looked after by the Curators. 



Henry Skinner, M. D., Professor in the Department of Insecta,. 

 reports having delivered a course of six illustrated lectures on ento- 

 mology in connection with the Academy's Ludwick Institute Course. 

 He refers to his report as Conservator of the Entomological Section 

 for a statement of other work accomplished during the year. 




520 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



The election of Officers, Councillors and Members of the Finance 

 Committee to serve daring 1899 was held with the following re- 

 sult : — 



President, . . . Samuel G. Dixon, M. D. 



Vice-Presidents, . . Thomas Meehan. 



Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D. 

 Recording Secretary, . Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 

 Corresponding Secretary, . Benjamin Sharp, M. D. 

 Treasurer, . . . George Vaux, Jr. 



Librarian, . . . Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 

 Curators, . . . Henry A. Pilsbry. 



Henry C. Chapman, M. D. 



Arthur Erwin Brown. 



Samuel G. Dixon, M. D. 

 Councillorsto serve three years, Charles E.Smith. 



Uselma C. Smith. 



John Cadwalader. 



William Sellers. 

 Finance Committee, . . Charles Morris. 



Chas. E. Smith. 



Uselma C. Smith. 



William Sellers. 



Charles Roberts. 

 Councillor for unexpired term 



of two years, . . Charles Schaeffer, M. D. 



COUNCIL AND STANDING COMMITTEES FOR 1899. 



Council. 



Ex-officio. — Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., Thomas Meehan, Rev. 

 Henry C. McCook, D. D., Edw. J. Nolan, M. D., Benjamin Sharp, 

 M. D., George Vaux, Jr., Henry A. Pilsbry, Henry C. Chapman, 

 M. D., Arthur Erwin Brown. 



To serve Three Years. — Charles E. Smith, Uselma C. Smith, John 

 Cadwalader, William Sellers. 



To serve Two Years. — Charles Schaeffer, M. D., Dr. C. Newlin 

 Pierce, Theodore D. Rand and Philip P. Calvert, Ph. D. 



To serve One Year. — Thomas A. Robinson, Charles H. Cramp, 

 Charles Morris, Isaac J. Wistar. 




1898.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 521 



Standing Committees. 



Finance. 



Uselma C. Smith, Charles Morris, Charles E. Smith, William 

 Sellers, Charles Roberts. 



Publications. 



Thomas Meehan, Charles E. Smith, Henry A. Pilsbry, Henry 

 Skinner, M. D., Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



Library. 



Arthur Erwin Brown, Thos. A. Robinson, HenryC. Chapman, M.D., 

 Dr. C. Newlin Peirceand Charles Schaeffer, M. D. 



Instruction and Lectures. 



Uselma C. Smith, Benj. Smith Lyman, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., 

 Philip P. Calvert, Ph. D. and Charles Morris. 



Committee of Council on By-Laws. 



Isaac J. Wistar, Theodore D. Rand, Arthur Erwin Brown and 

 Benjamin Sharp, M. D. 



ELECTIONS DURING 1898. 



MEMBERS. 



January 25. — D. M. Castle, M. D., Caroline A. Burgin, Charles 

 G. Sower, Israel W. Morris. 



February 22. — James Lane Pennypacker. 



March 29. — Carroll Smyth. 



July 2£— Charles M. Burk, M. D. 



September 27. — Thomas Lynch Montgomery. 



October 25. — Emeline Maddock, D. M. Barringer, George C. 

 Thomas, Lincoln Godfrey, Henry Emerson Wetherill, M. D., 

 U. S. A. 



November 29. — H. B. Gross, Julia Stockton Robins, Ethel Smith, 

 Emily Lowber, Mrs. J. Edgar Thomson, Emily Williams Biddle, 

 Charles Mohr, M. D., Henry L. Broomall. 



34 




522 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 



MAMMALS. 



Mrs. Harrison Allen. One hundred and thirty-five jars of 

 mammalian preparations and dissections and a number of dry 

 preparations of Chiroptera. 



J. L. Buck. Skull of Baboon and Common Porcupine, Erythizon 

 dorsatus, and skeleton of Timber Wolf, Canis griseoalbus. 



Estate of Edward D. Cope. A large collection of alcoholic 

 mammals. A collection of 298 skins and skeletons of Brazil- 

 ian mammals formed by the Naturalist Exploring Expedition, 

 1882-3. A number of miscellaneous skins and skeletons. 



J. L. Cox. Two skins of Newfoundland Caribou, Rangijer novce- 

 terrce, prepared for mounting. 



J. Edward Farnum, George Farnum and Dr. A. Donaldson 

 Smith. A small series of mammals from Mongolia. 



Miss A. C. Hartshorne. Twelve skins and skeletons of Japanese 

 mammals. 



Purchased. Four skins of Fur Seals, Callotaria ursina. Young 

 Orangoutan (since mounted), Simia satyris. Several skulls of 

 Common Sheep, Ovis aries. 



Dr. J. H. Romig. Six skins of Alaskan mammals. 



George Vaux, Jr. Smooth haired St. Bernard Dog (prepared as 

 skeleton). 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. The following mammals, 

 which have been prepared as indicated. Mounted : Sable ante- 

 lope, Hippotragus niger ; Dorcas Gazelle, Gazella dorcas ; 

 Agouti, Dasyprocta istlimica? Capybara, Hydrochcerus capy- 

 bara; Chamois, Rupieapra tragus; Rocky Mountain Sheep, 

 Ovis cervina and Red Monkey. To be mounted : Chevrotain 

 Black Lemur two Monkeys and Javan Squirrel. Skins and 

 skulls: Antelope cervicapra; Nasua narica ; Mustela mattes; 

 Cercopithecus ruber; Semnopithecus rubicundus ; S. cephalo- 

 pterus ; Papio sphinx; Spermophilus franklini. Skins: Felis 

 temminchi; Gazella muscatensis. Skulls: Dorcas Gazelle, 

 Arctic Fox, Agouti (D. isthmica f) ; Red Monkey. Dis- 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 523 



articulated Skeletons : Capybara, Sable Antelope, Golden Cat, 

 Fells temmincki. Rough Skeletons : Oscelot, Felis pardalis ; 

 Asiatic Elephant, Elephas indicus; Anubis Baboon, Wild Sheep, 

 Oris cycloeeras ; Equus hemionus, Also viscera and brain of 

 Asiatic Elephant. Foetal Opossum and Young Vervet Mon- 

 key in alcohol. 



BIRDS. 



Dr. W. L. Abbott. Skin of Antrostomus carolinensis, Cuba. 



J. L. Buck. Curassow sp. (skin). 



Mr. Bucknell. Albino Robin, mounted. 



Estate of Edw. D. Cope. A collection of about 700 skins of 



North American Birds and several hundred Brazilian Birds in 



alcohol. A few miscellaneous skins and skeletons. 

 I. N. DeHaven. Golden Eye Duck, Clangula americana, and For- 



ster's Tern, Sterna forsteri (skins), Cape Charles, Va. 

 Delaware Valley Ornithological Club. A number of nests, 



eggs and birds presented by members of the Club, for the Club 



Collection. Male and female of the Red Shouldered and 



Broad Winged Hawks, Buteo lineatus and latissimus, received 



from Chas. S. Welles, Sooty Shearwater, Puffinus stricklandi, 



from Theo. L. DeBow. 

 J. Edward Farnum, George Farnum and Dr. A. Donaldson 



Smith. A small collection of Birds from Mongolia. 

 H. W. Fowler. Several mounted North American Birds. 

 C. R. Hansell. Screech Owl, Megascops asio. 

 Miss A. C. Hartshorne. Six skins of Japanese Birds. 

 Howard T. Jefferies. Specimen of Krider's Hawk, Buteo bor- 



ealis hrideri, from Minnesota. Dendroiea, Pennsylvania. 

 Dr. J. C. Kirkpatrick. Skins of Peacock and several small 



birds from Burrnah. 

 Samuel N. Rhoads. Skin of Passer domesticus. 

 Dr. J. H. Romig. Skins of ten Alaskan Birds, including two 



McKay's Snowflakes, Passerian hyperborea. 

 Dr. Paul J. Sartain. Mounted specimen of Bird of Paradise, 



Paradiscea apoda. 

 S. L. Shumo. Three skins of Floridian Birds. 

 A. P. Willets. Two skins of Horned Lark, Otocoris alpestris, 



Beach Haven, N. J. 

 R. T. Young. Several nests and eggs of North American Birds. 

 Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Specimens received in 



the flesh and preserved as follows. Skins and sterna : Paloeornis 




524 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



nepalensis,Agapornis canus, Polyteles melanurus, Bernardhis ber- 

 nardi, Trichoglossus novceho Hand ice, Crax fasciolata, Pelecanus 

 crispus, Conurus carolinensis, Callcenas nicobarica, Chrysolophus 

 pictus, Pseudogryphus calif ornianus. Flat skins : Apteryx oweni 

 and mantelli. Skull and sternum : Cygnus olor, Pelecanus 

 erythrorhynchus, Anthropoides virgo; Skeletons : Sarcorhamphus 

 gryphus, Anthropoides virgo, Apteryx oweni, Apteryx mantelli. 



EEPTILES. 



Arthur Erwin Brown. A collection of several hundred Reptiles 

 and Batrachia mainly from North America. 



Mr. Braddenburg. Specimen of Python reticularis (prepared as 

 a skeleton). 



Estate of Edw. D. Cope. About 3,000 Reptiles and Batrachians 

 including many types. 



J. Edward and George Farnum and Dr. A. Donaldson Smith. 

 A small collection of Reptiles and Batrachia from Mongolia. 



John Lunkenheimer, Jr. Skull of Green Turtle, Chelone 

 mydas. 



David McCadden. Jar of Plethodon erythronotus. 



Henry A. Pilsbry. Jar of Bufo americanus, Cape May, N. J. 



Jos. W. Tatum. Specimen of Amblystoma punctatum. 



Benj. Wainwright. Specimen of Amblystoma punctatum, Del- 

 aware Co., Pa. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia Salamandra maculosa, 

 Tumpinambis teguexin, Varanus indicus, Pelophilus madagas- 

 cariensis, Corallus madagascariensis, Testudo angulata (two 

 specimens). Two casts of snakes made in taxidermical depart- 

 ment and one cast purchased. 



FISHES. 



Estate of Edw. D. Cope. Several hundred jars of fishes includ- 

 ing a number of types. 



J. Edward and George Farnum, and A. Donaldson Smith. 

 Two jars of fishes from Mongolia. 



Stanley W. Rush. Two Sea Catfish, JEluricthys marinus, Harvey- 

 Cedars, N. J. 



F. W. Walmsley. Three species of fish, Wood's Holl, Mass. 



J. S. Witmer, Jr. Two jars of freshwater fishes, Lancaster Co., 

 Pa. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 525 



KECENT MOLLUSCA. 



T. H. Aldrich. Twenty-two species of marine shells from Sumatra. 



Dr. Harrison Allen. One tray of Pisidium from Nantucket 

 Island. 



American Entomological Society (Entom. Sec. Acad.). Thir- 

 teen species from the collection of the late Dr. George H. Horn. 



Mrs. George Andrews. Seven species of land shells from Ten- 

 nessee. 



E. H. Ashmun. Fifty-one species of land and freshwater mollusks 



from New Mexico and Arizona. 

 Frank C. Baker. Nineteen species of freshwater shells from 



Illinois. 

 C. A. Barker. Three species of land mollusks from West Indies. 

 W. T. Bednall. Two hundred and ninety-eight species of marine 



shells from South Australia. 

 Francisco E. Blanes. Seven species of Cerion from Cuba. 

 J. H. Britts. Four species of G onto basis from Missouri and North 



Carolina. 



F. L. Button. Five species of marine shells from California. 

 R. E. C. Call. One tray of Pisidium from New Mexico. 



Mrs. Julia Chandler. Pholas costata Linne" from Long Beach, 



Mississippi. 

 George H. Clapp. Nine trays of land shells from Pennsylvania. 

 T. D. A. Cockerell. Nineteen species of land and marine mollusks 



from West Indies and New Mexico. 

 M. Cossman. Four species of marine and laud shells from Europe 



and Africa. 

 Dr. J. C. Cox. Three trays of marine shells from New South 



Wales. 

 Dr. W. H. Dall. Four species of land and marine mollusks from 



California. 

 Rev. A. Dean. One tray Zonites from Florida. 

 Mr. Desmond. Fifteen trays of marine mollusks. 

 Dr. Samuel G. Dixon. Two species of mollusks from Maine. 

 H. F. Dore. Two species of Fluminicola from Oregon. 

 J. H. Ferriss. Twenty-two species of land shells from the Great 



Smoky Mts. 

 John Ford. Sixteen species of marine shells. 

 H. W. Fowler. Four species of freshwater shells from the crop of 



a duck. 




526 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Mrs. E. M. Gaylord. Six species of marine shells from Oregon. 

 Lieut.-Col. H. H. Godwin-Austin. Alcoholic specimens of 



Acavus hcemastomus. 

 A. F. Gray. Two species of Pupa from Oregon. 

 R. C. McGregor. Seventy-seven species of marine shells from 



Mexico and California. 

 E. Hall. One tray of Slrobilops from Illinois. 

 S. H. Hamilton. Three species freshwater shells from New 



Jersey. 

 A. W. Hanham. Three species of land shells from Quebec. 

 Harold Heath. Sixty-five species of mollusks from California. 

 S. W. Heaton. Seven species of marine shells from California. 

 Charles Hedley. Five species of mollusks from New South 



Wales. 

 Prof. Angelo Heilprin. Two trays of shells from Algeria. 

 J. B. Henderson. Land mollusks from Enganio Island and 



Jamaica. 

 C. S. Hoagson. One tray of Strobilops from Illinois. 

 Horn Expedition. Twenty-nine species of Australian land shells. 

 T. Van Hyning. Three species of marine shells. 

 H. von Ihering. Seventy-one species of South American land 



. shells. 

 C. W. Johnson. Three species of marine mollusks. 

 Dr. R. J. Kirkland. Five species of Ancylus from Michigan. 

 Miss E. J. Letson. Eighteen trays of marine shells. 

 H. Loomis. Five species of shells from Japan. 

 Ausley Ludlaw. Fulgur perversum Lin ne, Anglesea, New Jersey. 

 J. G. Malone. Thirty-four species of land and freshwater shells 



from Oregon. 

 Clarence B. Moore. Two species of mollusks from Callawassie 



Island, Ga. 

 Wm. Moss. Two species of shells from New Zealand. 

 C. F. Newcomb. Tornatina eximia from British Columbia. 

 J. W. Palmer. Three species of land shells. 

 H. A. Pilsbry. Four hundred and sixteen trays of American 



land and freshwater shells. 

 H. A. Pilsbry and C. W. Johnson. Seven species of shells 



from Florida. 

 H. A. Pilsbry and E. G. Vanatta. Twenty-one species of Mel- 

 anin and Diplommatina from Java. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 527 



E. Pleas. Twenty-one trays of Pleuroeera. 



Mrss Sadie F. Price. Thirty species of freshwater mollusks from 



Kentucky. 

 P. B. Randolph. Seventeen trays of mollusks from Alaska. 

 W. J. Raymond. Seven species of marine shells from California. 

 Estate of J. H. Redfield. Sixty-five species of marine mollusks 



from Panama collected by Prof. C. B. Adams. 

 S. N. Rhoads. Five species of shells from Pennsylvania. 

 Dr. Wm. H. Rush. Thirty-one species of marine mollusks from 



West Indies. 

 G. F. Russell. Ten species of marine mollusks from British 



Guiana. 

 Jose N. Rovirosa. Nine species of mollusks from Tabasco, 



Mexico. 



F. A. Sampson. One species, Polygyra from Missouri. 



S. L. Schumo. Twenty-four species of land shells from Jamaica. 

 Ida M. Shepard. Twenty-one species of marine mollusks from 

 California. 



B. Shimek. Pleuroeera and Campeloma from Alabama. 

 J. A. Singley. Glandina from Texas. 



Uselma C. Smith. Two species of marine mollusks from New 



Jersey. 

 L. H. Streng. Amnicola from Michigan. 

 S. H. Stupakoff. Polygyra from Pennsylvania. 

 H. Suter. Twenty species of marine shells from New Zealand. 

 E. R. Sykes. Two species of Chiton from South Africa. 

 Prof, de la Torre. Cerion torrei Blanes, from Cuba. 

 E. G. Vanatta. Twenty-six species of American mollusks (see 



also under Pilsbry and Vanatta). 



A. Vayssiere. Thirteen species of French marine shells. 



H. Viereck. Rumina decollata from Philadelphia. 



A. G. Wetherey. One tray of Parastarte from Florida. 



Joseph Willcox. Five species of mollusks from Florida. 



Lewis Woolman. Five species of marine mollusks from New 



Jersey. 



CRUSTACEA. 



Dr. W. L. Abbott. One bottle of specimens from Tso Kiagr 



Ladak. 

 W. T. Bednall. Six trays of specimens from South Australia. 



C. E. Beecher. One tray of specimens from Wekiva River, 



Florida. 




528 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Lester Bernstein. One tray of Balanus. 



H. W. Fowler. One bottle of specimens from Tolchester, Mary- 

 land. 



Wm. J. Fox. Ten bottles and three trays of specimens from 

 Jamaica. 



R. C. McGregor. Two trays of Cypris from Redding, California. 



W. Hays. One Cambarus from Big Creek, Kansas. 



H. A. Pilsbry. Balanus eburneus Gld. from Betterton, Maryland. 



Dr. W. H. Rush. Two trays of specimens from Uruguay. 



Frederick Stearns. Lepas anatifera from Japan. 



Mr. Wharton. Two species from San Diego de Cuba. 



OTHER INVERTEBRATES. 



American Entomological Society (Entom. Sec. Acad.). Seven 

 trays of corals from collection of the late Dr. Horn. 



W. T. Bednall in exchange. Seven trays and four bottles of 

 Echinoderms from South Australia. 



Dr. Samuel G. Dixon. Two bottles of Echinoderms from Isles- 

 boro, Maine. 



H. W. Fowler. One bottle of Gordius and two bottles of Jelly- 

 fish from Tolchester, Maryland. 



Harold Heath. Thirteen bottles of marine invertebrates from 

 Pacific Grove, California. 



Rev. H. N. Hyde. One tray of invertebrates from Mexico.' 



Jas. N. Pearce. One Hlpponoe esculata Leske from Bermuda. 



Dr. W. H. Rush. Two bottles of invertebrates from Cape de Verde 

 Isles and Maldonado Bay. 



S. L. Schumo. Two trays of invertebrates from Jamaica. 



Dr. B. Sharp. Thirteen bottles of starfishes from Alaska. 



Uselma C. Smith. Seven trays and one bottle of invertebrates 

 from New Jersey. 



F. W. Walmsley. Eight bottles of marine invertebrates. 



Lewis Woolman. Mellita pentapora Gmel. from Avalon, New 

 Jersey. 



INSECTS. 



Dr. W. H. Griffith. Fifty-seven butterflies and 7 moths. 



C. Few. Seiss. Collection of 108 local Orthoptera. 



Dr. J. W. Eckfeldt. Collection of 1,215 North American Coleop- 



tera. 

 H. A. Pilsbry. Five trays, Helicopsyche from Arkansas, Iowa, 



Indiana and New York. 




1898.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 529 



INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS. 



American Entomological Society (Entom. Sec. Acad.). 



Collection of the late Dr. Horn. One tray. 

 G. Bauman. Two trays of mollusks from Greenland. 

 M. Cossmann. Two trays of Dentalium from Biot, France. 

 Prof. Angelo Heilprin. Forty-four trays of fossils from Atlas 



Mountains, Algeria. 

 M. Homer. Thirty -four trays of fossils from Dismal Swamp 



Canal, Virginia. 

 J. E. Ives. One species from Lenola, New Jersey. 

 Miss M. E. Lyndall. Eleven trays of specimens from Shiloh, 



New Jersey. 

 A. M. Mercer. Three trays of specimens from Centerville, Mary- 

 land. 

 Clarence B. Moore. Pecten from Doctortown, Georgia. 

 J. A. Murphy. Twenty species from Eureka Springs, Arkansas. 

 H. A. Pilsbry. Chrysodomus stonei Pils. from Cape May, New 



Jersey. 

 S. L. Shumo. Collection of Invertebrate Fossils from Jamaica (not 



yet assorted). 

 J. A. Singley. Two species of Dentalium from Galveston, Texas. 

 Uselma C. Smith. One species from Lenola, New Jersey. 

 Joseph Willcox. Ninety-one trays of fossils from Florida. 



CARBONIFEROUS PLANTS. 



E. W. Claypole. Small collection. 



MINERALS ROCKS, ETC. 



Homer Darlington. Serpentine. 

 John Ford. Zeolite. 

 Angelo Heilprin. Gypsum. 

 Geo. H. Horn. Several specimens. 



W. W. Jefferis. Altered Biotite, Rattlebox, Pyrite, Tale, Calcite. 

 Farnum Bros. Opal Pebbles. 

 S. H. Hamilton. Tourmaline. 

 Edw. Longstreth. Several specimens of minerals. 

 Wilfred McSorley. Conglomerate Geode, Mt. Holly, N. J. 

 W. E. Meehan. Chalcedony, Florida. 

 Adolph Mueller. Quartz. 



Theo. D. Rand. Meerschaum pseudomorph after Quartz from 

 Radnor, Pa. 




530 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1898. 



Students Mineralogical Club. Chalcopyrite, Bornite, Cyanite, 



Calcite. 

 J. W. Ridpath. Borings from wells, Philadelphia. 

 Mineralogical Section. Calcite, Chrysolite. 

 Purchased for William S. Vaux Collection, twenty-one specimens. 



ARCHAEOLOGY AND ETHNOLOGY. 



Geo. Farnum and J. Edw. Farnum. Human Cranium, Mon- 

 golia. 



Miss J. A. Flanigan. Indian Tanned deer skin, Western, N. A. 



Estate of Geo. H. Horn. Various specimens, Arrow points, etc. 



Edw. Longstreth. Several miscellaneous specimens. 



Clarence B. Moore. Various important additions to the Moore 

 collection of mound implements, etc. 



PLANTS. 



Stewardson Brown. Four hundred species, Pennsylvania plants ; 

 two hundred and fifty species plants from the Northwest coast; 

 one hundred and fifty species plants herbarium of Wm. Boot. 



Joseph Crawford. Two hundred and fifty species of North 

 American plants. 



Anna C. Hortshorne. Six hundred and seventy species of Japan- 

 ese plants. 



Thomas Meehan. Eight hundred species of South African plants. 



C. F. Saunders. Two hundred and fifty species of Pennsylvania 

 plants. 



J. W. Eckfeldt,M. D. The entire Eckfeldt Collection of Lichens. 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



531 



INDEX TO GENERA, ETC., 

 1898. 



Abies 378 



Abra 419 



Abudefduf 343 



Acalypha 389 



Acanthacese 391 



Acanthochitidse 288 



Accipiter 80, 209 



Acer 21, 297 



Acbatina 190 



Achillea 30, 304 



Acroceridse 161 



Actinella 33 



Actinocyclus .:.... 423 

 Actinoptychus . . . 423, 424 



Actitis 79, 207 



Adiantum 409 



^Egialitis 207 



^Elurus 72 



iEscbninse 148 



Agave 395, 412 



Agelaius 82, 212 



Agrioninse 142, 147 



Agropyron 45, 314 



Aira . 45, 313 



Aix 78 



Alactaga 121 



Alaria 462 



Alcidse 127, 495 



Alismacese 383 



Allionia 39 



Allium 42, 312 



Alnus 41 



Anchura 462, 463 



Amaryllidaceae 395 



Ameiva 103 



Amelanchior .... 24, 299 



Amellus 30 



Ammodramus .... 83, 139 



Aminospermophilus . . . 123 



Amorpha 21, 297 



Ampelis 84 



Amphichsena 58 



Amphicosmia .... 271, 277 



Amphiprora 112 



Amphisbsena .... 103-105 



Amphisbsenidse 103 



Amphispiza 214 



Ampullaria 106 



Anacardiacese 381 



Anachis 419 



Anadenulus 220, 222, 229, 254 



Anadenus 220 



Anagallis 381 



Anaphalantus 162 



Anastoma 283 



Anatidse 137 



Anax 148 



Anemone 16, 17, 293 



Angelica 302, 405 



Anguidpe 103 



Anisolepis 102, 104 



Anisospira 282 



Anoma 279 



Anomia 462 



Anona 410 



Anonacese 410 



Anthericum 397 



Anthomyia 162 



Anthomyidae 162 



Anthrax 158 



Antirrhinum 38 



Antrostomus 81 



Aphallarion 219, 222, 223, 



226, 228, 235 



Aphelocoma 212 



Aplopappus . . . .30,31, 304 




532 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[1898. 



Aplysia 193 



Apoica 445 



Apoma 268,272, 279 



Apteryx 492 



Aquila 209 



Araliacese 411 



Aramus 498 



Arangia 270, 275 



Arbutus 35, 307 



Area 418, 419, 421 



Arctomys 123, 352 



Arctonetta 137 



Arctostapbylos . . . 35, 306 



Ardea 78, 207 



Arenaria 379, 402 



Argemone 379 



Ariolimacinaa . . 220, 222, 227 

 Ariolimax 219-222, 224, 



226, 228, 232, 235-237 



Arion 220-226, 239 



Arionidse 220-222 



Arioninae 228 



Artemisia . . 31, 32, 304, 305 



Arvicola 358 



Asaphis 59-61 



Asarkiua 159 



Aschizorays 368-370 



Asclepiadaceae . 390, 405, 411 



Asclepias 390, 405 



Asilidae 158 



Aspidium 47, 314 



Aster 32,305, 378 



Astragalus ... 21, 297, 404 



Astrangia 418 



Atherina 340 



Atherinidie 340 



Atriplex .... 39, 310, 375 



Aulacodiscus 423 



Auliscus 423 



Aurinia 191, 192 



Aytha 140 



Bacillaria 113 



Balanus 419 



Balsamorrhiza . . . 32, 305 



Bartramia 79 



Bartsia 38, 49 



Bazzania 47, 315 



Belogona ...... 67, 68 



Berberis 48 



Berendtia 282, 283 



Betula 41, 311 



Biddulpbia . . . 423, 468-470 



Bidens 385 



Bigelowia .... 32, 33, 305 



Bignoniaceae 386 



Binneya 220, 222, 224, 227, 



229, 232 



Binneyinae 227 



Blecbnum 47 



Blenniidse 346 



Blennius . 346 



Boa 105, 106 



Boidae 105, 108 



Bombycidae 158 



Bombylius 159 



Bonasa 79 



Boraginaceas 399 



Borus 106 



Bouteloua 387 



Box 342 



Bracbyphylla 333 



Bracbypodella . 267, 269, 



271,277, 281 



Brachypodisca 268 



Brachypodium 401 



Bracbypus 267 



Branta 138 



Brebissonia 112 



Brodiaea 42, 312 



Bubo . 80 



Buccinidae 190 



Buddleia 405 



Buliminus 265 



Bulimus 106 



Bupbthalmum 32 



Buteo 80, 209 



Cactaceae .... 386, 389, 410 



Cadulus 419 



Caecum 418 



Cselocentrum 281 



Caesalpinia 354 



Caiman 101 



Calandrinia 393 



Calcarius 139 



Calligonum 39 



Callipepla 208 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



533 



Callista 419 



Callistochiton 288 



Calloina .... 269, 271, 276 

 Callospermophilus .... 123 

 Calochortus . . 43, 312, 388 



Calophanes 391 



Calypso 42, 312 



Calypte 211 



Caraassia 43, 312 



Campylodiscus . 422, 423, 425 



Caraptonectes 462 



Cantua 37 



Capsa 59, 60 



Capreolus 124 



Caprifoliacese 400 



Caprifolium 30 



Capsula 59 



Caracolus 223 



Carangidse 341 



Cardiospermum 389 



Cardiuni 419, 462 



Caricea 162 



Caricella 192 



Carollus 105 



Carpodacus 83, 213 



Canim 303 



Caryophyllacere 379, 388, 



402, 410 



Cassia 393 



Casta 269 



Castilleja 400, 407 



Cathartes ....... 208 



Ceanothus . . 20, 48, 296, 395 



Cecomorphse 495 



Centrolabrus 343 



Centrophorii8 339 



Centropyx 103, 104 



Ceophlceus 81, 210 



Cepolis 68 



Cepphus 129 



Cerastium .... 18, 294. 402 



Cerataulus 423, 425 



Cercosaura 103 



Cereopsis 496 



Cereus .... 373, 389, 410 



Cerion 283, 475-478 



Certhia 217 



Ceryle 80, 209 



Chsetopleura 288 



Chsetura 81, 211 



Chamsea 218 



Charterginus .... 458-460 



Chartergus 457, 458 



Cheilanthes 387 



Chelidon 84, 216 



Chelydidse 101 



Chen 138 



Chenopodium 375 



Chilonatalus 326 



Chilonycteris 326 



Chione 419 



Choeronycteris 333 



Chondestes 214 



Chordeiles ... 81, 210, 211 



Chromis 343 



Chrysocoma 32 



Chrysops 157 



Cinulia 462 



Circinaria 244 



Circus 80, 208 



Cissus 21, 297 



Clangula 137 



Clarkia 28, 302 



Clausilia . . . 265-267, 284 

 Claytonia . . 19, 20, 295, 402 

 Clematis . . 15, 17, 293, 388 



Cleome 16, 18, 294 



Clinclus 217 



Clupanodon 340 



Clupeidse 340 



Cnemiornis 496 



Cincus 33, 305, 385 



Cobasa 382 



Coccyzus 80 



Coch'lodina . . . 266, 267, 280 

 Cochlodinella .... 270, 274 



Ccelaxis 284 



Coelocentrum 283 



Coelostemma 282 



Colaptes 81, 210 



Colinua 79 



Colletes 51-53 



Collinsia 38 



Collomia ...... 36, 308 



Colobus 280 



Columbella 419 




534 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



Colymbidse 



Colymbus 



Commelina 387, 



Commelinacefe . 387, 393, 



Composite 378, 383, 385, 



391, 394, 396, 400, 408, 



Compsomyia 



Compsothlypis 



Coniferse 395, 



Conopholis 



Contopus 81, 



Convolvulacese 



Corbula 418, 



Cordulegaster 



Cordulegasterinse .... 



Cornacea? 



Corona 



Corrigiola 



Corvus 30, 82, 140, 212, 

 Coscinodiscus .... 422, 



Cosmina 



Cosmos 



Craspedodiscus 



Crassatella 



Crassulacese 



Cratsegus 24, 



Crepidula . 418,419,435- 



Crex 



Cristaria 



Crocodilidse 



Crocodilurus 



Crocothemis 



Crotalaria 



Crymophilus 



Cryptochiton 



Cruciferse 



Crusea 



Cucurbitacese 



Culex 



Culicidse 



Cultellus 59, 



Cuphea 



Cupulifera 



Cupuliferse 



Cyanocitta 82, 



Cyanoplax ....... 



Cyclorrhynchus 



Cylindrella . . . 264, 267 



495 

 207 

 402 

 402 



412 



186 

 85 

 397 

 395 

 212 

 390 

 462 

 152 

 152 

 398 

 423 

 379 

 303 

 423 

 172 

 396 

 423 

 419 

 403 

 299 

 -444 

 498 

 19 

 101 

 104 

 153 

 389 

 138 

 288 

 380 

 396 

 412 

 157 

 157 

 60 

 381 

 388 

 395 

 212 

 287 

 128 

 -270 



Cylindrellidaj 265 



Cymbiola 192 



Cymopterus .... 29, 303 



Cynopterus 316-319 



Cyperacese 383, 387 



Cyperus 383, 387 



Cypripedium 409 



Cyrena 421 



Cytherea 418, 420 



Dahlia . . 391,394,396, 400 



Dasyatidse 339 



Dasyatis 339 



Dasyphora 181 



Delphinium .... 18, 293 



Dendragapus 208 



Dendroeygna .... 497, 498 



Dendroica 85, 217 



Dendropanax 411 



Dentalium 462 



Dentaria 18, 293 



Diastodon 343 



Diatoma 113 



Dicrostonyx 371 



Diomedea 133 



Diomedeidse 133 



Diopsidse 163 



Diopsis 163 



Dioscorea 393 



Dioscoreacese 393 



Diotis 49 



Diplacodes 146 



Diplodonta 61 



Diplodus 341 



Diploglossus .... 103, 105 



Distsectria 269 



Divaricella 418 



Dodecatheon .... 36, 307 



Dodonsea 394 



Dolichonyx 82 



Donia . • 33 



Dosinia 419, 421 



Drymaria 388 



Dryobates 80, 209 



Duranta 411 



Ectopistes 79 



Egregia .... 17, 47, 315 



Eichornia 384 



Elachiptera 164 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



535 



, 40, 310 



. 72-74 



323-325 



. . 81 



221, 

 102, 



265 

 104 

 192 

 283 

 105 

 410 

 405 

 341 

 67-71 

 272, 281 



47, 



399, 

 49, 



384, 



384, 

 33, 



380, 

 390, 398, 



Elseagnus . 



Elaphroptera 



Emballonura 



Empidonax 



Endodontiuse 



Enyalius 



Eopsephaea . 



Eostropbia . 



Epicrates 



Epidendrum 



Epilobium . 



Epinephelus . . 



Epiphragmopbora 



Epirobia . 265, 269 



Equisetum . 



Eretopodes 



Ericacea? . 



Erigeron 



Eriocaulon . 



Eriocaulonea? 



Eriopbyllum 



Erodium 



Eryngium . 



Eryphyla . 



Erysimum . 



Erytbrouium 



Esobedea . 



Esochara . 



Esocidse 



Esox . . 



Ethalia . . 



Eucalodium 267, 268, 270, 



282-285 



Euchlsena 413 



Eulima 419 



Eulota 68 



Eunectes 105 



Eunotia .... 110-118 



Eupagurus 437 



Eupatorium . . . 383, 408 

 Euphorbia 40, 311, 354, 



389, 404 

 Euphorbiacese . . 389, 404 



Euplectella 430 



Eupleura 418 



Eupodiscus 423 



Eurycarenus 159 



Eutamias 122, 123, 348- 



350, 352 



18, 

 43, 



271, 



314 

 495 

 405 

 379 

 401 

 401 

 306 

 404 

 405 

 419 

 294 

 313 

 385 

 276 

 340 

 340 

 419 



Evotomys 



Exogyra 



Exoprosopa 



Eysenbardtia 



Falco . . 



Farrea . . 



Festuca . . 



Ficoidese . 



Filices . 387, 



Flammulina . . 



Fragaria 



Fragilaria 



Frasera . 



Fratercula 



Fritillaria 



Fuchsia . 



Fulgur . 415, 



Fulica . 



Fulmarus 



Gadidse . 



Gaillardia 



Galeidae . 



Galeoscoptes 



Gallinula 



Garrya . 



Gaultheria 



Gazella 



Geciuus . 



Geckonidre 



Gemphylidse 



Geutianacese 



Geococcyx 



Geomalacus 



Geoscala 



Geotblypis 



Geraniacese 



Geranium 



Gerardia 



Gerrhonotus 



Geum . 



Gilia 



Glabaris 



Glaucidum 



Glossina 



Glossophaga 



GlossophagiDse 



Glyptostoma . 



Gnaphalium . 



Gnatbodon 



417 



389 

 80 



*45 



S93, 400 

 . 221 



36 

 *44 



,418 

 207 



33 



223 



272 



380, 386 



24 

 37 



330-333 



67 

 400 



358-371 

 462 

 158 

 393 

 209 

 430 

 314 

 378 

 409 

 222 

 403 

 113 

 308 

 127 

 313 

 405 

 420 

 498 

 135 

 347 

 306 

 339 



86 

 498 

 398 

 307 

 124 

 499 

 102 

 341 

 399 

 209 

 225 

 279 



86 

 404 

 404 



49 

 63-66 

 299 

 308 

 106 

 209 

 172 

 335 

 333 



68 

 408 

 421 



35 




536 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



Gobiidse . . 

 Gobius . . . 

 Gobrseus . . 

 Gomphinse . . 



Gongylostoma 



387 



33 



34 



190 



269, 271 

 275, 276 

 Goniothecium 

 Gouolobus 

 Goulclia . . 

 Graminese . . 

 Graramatomya 

 Grapbomyia . 

 Gratiola 

 Grindelia . . 

 Grus . . . 

 Guiraca 

 Gutierrezia 

 Habenaria . . 

 Habia . . . 

 Habropoda 

 Hsematopota . 

 Halenia . . 

 Halia . . . 

 Haliseetus . . 

 Halictus . . 

 Hamulus . . 

 Harporbynchus 

 Helicarion . . 

 Helicidse . . 

 Helix ^ r 68 

 Heliornithidse 

 Helminthoglypta 

 Helrainthophila 

 Helonias . . 

 Hemicnemis . 

 Hemidactylus 

 Hemphillia 220-222, 224 

 227, 23 

 Herod iones 



Hesperarion 222, 223, 226 

 228, 232, ' 

 Hesperornithida? . . 

 Hesperornis .... 

 Heteractites .... 

 Heterodactylus 101, 103 

 Heterodouax .... 

 Heteroglypta .... 

 Heterospermum . . . 



86 



70, 107 



102 



346 



346 



57 



150 



283 

 423 

 411 

 419 

 400 



57 

 168 

 375 

 306 

 498 

 215 

 306 

 388 

 215 



54 



158 



399 



-192 



140 



50 

 462 

 217 

 243 

 265 

 221 

 495 



68 

 216 



44 

 142 

 105 



)-235 



497 



236 



239 

 495 

 495 

 139 

 105 

 59-62 

 59 

 383 



Heterotheca 383 



Hippobosca 164 



Hippoboscidse .... 164 



Hippophoe 40 



Hipposideros 319 



Holospira . 265, 266, 272, 



281-283 



Hoplistomera 158 



Hoplocercus 104 



Hordeum .... 45, 314 



Houstonia 407 



Hyalodendron . . .430-443 



Hyalodiscus 423 



Hyalonema 430 



Hydraspis 101 



Hydroraedusa . . . . • 101 



Hydrophyllum .... 37 



Hyla 108 



Hypnum .... 47, 315 



Hypodis 341 



Icterus ..... 82, 213 



Idia 172 



Idiosterama . 270, 275, 283 



Iguanidse .... 102, 108 



Ilex 20 



Illecebracea? 379 



Illyonassa .... 435, 437 



Inliaculus 280 



Ionornis 498 



Ipomcea 354, 390 



Iridacese .... 398, 402 



Iris 42, 312 



Isarcha 59 



Ischnochiton . . . 287, 288 



Ischnochitonidse .... 287 



Ischnura 147 



Junco 83, 214 



Juuiperus . . .46, 314, 397 



Jussisea 49 



Katharina ' 288 



Kerivoula .... 321-323 



Koeleria 45, 314 



Kryuitskia .... 37, 309 



Kyphosidse 342 



Labiata; . 382, 390, 399, 405 



Labridse 343 



Labrisomus 346 



Lagopus . . . .139, 140 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



537 



131 

 131 



419 



Lamourouxia 

 Lam us . . 

 Lantana 

 Laphria 

 Laridse 

 Larus . . 

 Laxenecera 

 Leda . . . 

 Legumen . 

 Leguminaria 

 Leguminosas 380, 388, 393 

 395, 403 

 Leia .... 

 Leipomeles 

 Lepidopleuridse 

 Lepidopleurus 

 Lepidopodidse 

 Lepidopus . . 

 Leptarionta 

 Leptocephalidae 

 Leptocephalus 

 Leptocnemis 

 Leptosolen 

 Lepus . . 

 Lestes . . 

 Leucosticte 

 Lewisia . . 

 Lia . . . 

 Liatris . . 

 Lihellula . 143, 

 Libellulinre 

 Lichonycteris 

 Liliacese . 385, 

 Lilium . 

 Liinnsea . . 

 Linaceee . . 

 Linum . . 

 Liomesus . 

 Lipidosternon 

 Lithospermum 

 Littorina 

 Liza . . . 

 Lobelia . . 

 Lobeliaeese . 

 Logan iaceae 



145 



19 



Lomaria 

 Lonicera 



35 



139 



6,19 



266 



34 



, 146, 



143 



388, 397, 

 44, 



294, 



435, 



385, 

 385, 



47, 

 30, 303, 



391 

 216 

 411 

 158 

 495 

 132 

 158 

 462 

 462 

 60 



410 



280 

 448 

 287 

 287 

 341 

 341 



68 

 339 

 339 

 142 

 462 

 124 

 147 

 213 

 295 

 280 

 306 

 152 

 152 

 333 

 409 



49 

 439 

 404 

 404 

 419 

 104 

 399 

 437 

 340 

 407 

 407 

 405 

 315 

 304 



us 



418-420 

 . 127 



21,298 



Lucilia . , 



Lu cina . . 



Lunda . 



Lunatia . 



Lupiu aster 



Lupin us 



Lycodontis 



Lynx . 



Lysinoe . 



Lythracese 



Ly thrum 



Mabuia . , 



Maceo . 



Macha . 



Machserhamph 



Madura 



Macoma 



Macroceramus 266, 280 



Macrodontes . . .471 



Macrorhamphosidse . . 



Macrorhamphosus . . 



Mactra 



Malvaceae . . 381,389 



. 1 

 270 



04 



41 



Malvastrum 

 Malvaviscus 

 Mammillaria 



Marcasite . 



Margarita . 



Marsilia 



Marsiliaceaa 



Matricaria . 



May n a rd i a . 



Megachile . 



Megaderma 



Megascops 



Megaspira . 



Megatrigon 



Melanerpes 



Mel a no.? to in a 



Melosira 



Melospiza 



Mentha . 



Menziesia 



Merganser 



Merula . 



Mesoplura 



Metastoma 



19, 294 



84 



34 



283 



159 



81 



422 

 139 



87 

 59 



177 

 462 

 140 

 462 



24 

 395 

 340 

 124 



68 

 381 

 381 

 -106 

 275 



60 

 321 

 311 



60 

 282 

 472 

 340 

 340 

 419 

 410 

 389 

 410 

 386 

 485 

 486 

 383 

 383 

 306 

 475 



55 

 320 



80 

 284 

 160 

 210 

 159 

 423 

 215 

 390 



49 

 140 

 218 



60 

 282 




538 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 



Pantodactylus 

 Papaveracese . 

 Papuina . . 

 Paracompsomyia 

 Parochromyia 

 Parus . . 

 Passer . . 

 Passerella . 

 Passeres . . 

 Passerina . 

 Paulicea 

 Pecten . . 

 Pectis . . 

 Pectunculus 

 PedicularislG 

 Pelkea . . 

 Pentstemon 



101 



169 



87 



139 

 489 

 84 

 101 

 419 



38,309,391 



39, 49, 309 

 400 



Peperomia . 

 Pepsis . . 

 Pernettya . 

 Perrieria . 

 Petalostemon 

 Petricola 

 Petrochelidon 

 Peucedanum 

 Phacelia 

 Phainopepla 

 Phalacrocoracida? 

 Phalacrocorax 

 Phalsenoptilus 

 Phalangium . 

 Phalaropus 

 Phaseolus 354, 

 Phellaudrium. 

 Phenacarion . 

 Philaete . . . 

 Philadelphia . 

 Philibertia . . 

 Philohela . . 

 Philomycidae . 

 Phlox . . . 

 Phoca . . . 

 Phoenicopteridse 

 Phorbia . . . 

 Phyllocactus . 

 Phyllonycteris 

 Physalis . . 



21 



84 

 28, 302 

 37, 308 



380, 3 



88 



27 



48 



104 

 379 

 265 

 184 

 178 

 218 

 83 

 215 

 493 

 215 

 108 

 421 

 392 

 462 

 400 

 393 



407 

 398 



75 

 399 

 284 

 298 



60 

 216 

 303 

 309 

 216 

 137 

 137 

 210 



43 

 139 

 389 



29 

 249 

 498 

 301 

 390 



79 

 221 

 315 

 200 

 497 

 162 

 411 

 333-337 

 . 394, 406 



Phytolacca 

 Phytolacca cese 

 Pica . . . 

 Pineria . . 

 Pipilo . . 

 Pinna . . 

 Pinnulacea 

 Pinnularia 

 Pinus . 46, 49, 

 Piper . • 

 Piperacese . 

 Piranga . . 

 Placentaceras 

 Placiphorella 

 Placosoma . 

 Placuanomia 

 Plagiobothrys 

 Plagiogramma 

 Plautaginacese 

 Plantago . 

 Platemys . 

 Platophrys 

 Platyceras . 

 Plagiodontes 

 Platystoma . 

 Platytrochus 

 Plectrophenax 

 Pleurotorna 

 Pliorhytis . 

 Plumbaginacese 

 Plumbago ; 

 Podalirius . 

 Podilymbus 

 Polemoniacese 

 Polemonium 

 Polistes . . 

 Pollenia 

 Polybia . . 

 Polychrus . 

 Polygala 

 Polygonacese 

 Polygonum 

 Polymita . 

 Polymyxus 

 Polynices . , 

 Polypodium . 

 Pomacentrida? 

 Pontederiacese 



314, 395 



398 

 84 



103 



37 



383 

 383 



448 



387 



140 



'84 



110 



190 



37 

 446 



169 



-456 



103 



21 



40,310 

 68 



,400 



539 



394 

 394 

 212 

 281 

 215 

 462 

 381 



1-118 

 397 

 410 

 410 

 215 

 462 

 288 

 105 

 436 

 309 

 423 

 407 

 407 

 101 

 347 

 436 

 473 

 108 

 462 

 139 

 347 

 59 

 390 

 390 

 54 

 207 

 382 

 308 



>-448 

 175 

 458. 

 106 

 297 

 384 

 384 

 265 

 427 

 418 

 409 

 343 

 384 




540 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



Poocsetes 83 



Populus 42, 312 



Portulacacese . 386, 388, 



393, 402 



Porzana 498 



Potentilla . . .25, 300. 403 



Priva -390 



Prionodactylus 101, 103, 104 



Procellariid?e . . . 135, 495 



Prometheichthys . • • • 341 

 Prophysaon 220-228, 240-254 



Prunella 405 



Prunus 25, 300 



Psaltriparus 218 



Psammobia . . . 57, 59-62 



Psammobiidse 57 



Psammocola .... 59-61 



Psammosolen 59 



Psammotella 58 



Pseudauliscus 423 



Pseudogrypbus . • . . 208 



Pseudoplatystoma . . . 108 



Pseudopyrellia . . . . 173 



Pseudo-Tsuga 49 



Psidiura 411 



Psoralea . . . 23,48, 298 



Pteria 462 



Pterodontia 161 



Pteropus 316 



Puffinus 136 



Pugnellus 462 



Pupa 265 



Pupidce 265, 284 



Purpura 190 



Purshia 26, 300 



Putorius 188 



Pycnoptycbia . . .271, 275 



Pygopodes . . 489, 495, 497 



Pyramidula 221 



Pyrifusus 462 



Pvrola 405 



Pyrus .... 24,47, 299 



Quenselia 347 



Quercus. . 41,311,388, 395 



Quiscalus 82 



Raja 339 



Rajidse 339 



Rallus 498 



Ranunculacese 



Ranunculus 



Raphanus . 



Regulus . . 



Reithronycteris 



Reseda . . 



Resedacese . 



Rbabdonema 



Rhamnacese 



Rhamnus 



Rbingia . 



Rbinolopbus 



Rbodea . 



Rhogeessa 



Rbus 



Ribes . . 27, 



Rissa 



Rosa . . 



Rosacea? . 



Rosmarus 



Rubiacese 



Rubus . 



Ruellia . 



Ruvettus 



Sagittaria 



Salicacese 



Salix 



Salsola . 



Salvia 39, 310, 



Sanguinolai 



Santolina 



Sapindacese 



Sarcobatus 



Saxicola . 



Saxifragacese 



Sayornis 



Scala 



Scalaria . 



Scapbella 



Scaphellidse 



Schinus . 



Scbizonyx 



Scbkuhria 



Schoenocaulon 



Scienida? 



Scincidas 



Sciurus . 



Scolecophagus 



379, 385 

 379, 385 



301 



ia 



81 



333 



21 



21 

 ,302 



26 



.1 



396 



26 



98 



82, 399 



389 



40 



139 



,211 



419 

 191 



403 

 403 

 380 

 218 

 337 

 380 

 380 

 468 

 395 

 296 

 159 

 319 

 284 

 321 

 296 

 398 

 131 

 301 

 403 

 -201 

 407 

 301 

 391 

 341 

 383 

 379 

 379 

 375 

 405 

 58-62 

 34 

 394 

 310 

 436 

 398 

 212 

 418 

 462 

 192 

 192 

 381 

 146 

 383 

 409 

 342 

 104 

 348 

 213 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



541 



Scomber 341 



Scornbridae 341 



Scopus 497 



Scorpaena 344-346 



Scorpsenidae 344 



Scotophilia 321 



Scrophulariaceae 385, 391, 



400, 406 



Scutellaria ... 39, 310 



Sechium 412 



Sectilumen .... 271, 276 



Seiurus ..... 85, 86 



Sedum . . . .28, 302, 403 



Selaginella 386 



Selasphorus 211 



Senecio . 373, 392, 400, 



408, 412 



Sepsidse 163 



Sepsis 163 



Serranidae ...... 341 



Serranus 341 



Sesuvium 378 



Shepherdia . - . . 40, 310 



Sialia 88, 218 



Sibthorpia 406 



Silene 410 



Siliquaria 59-61 



Siphonostoraa 268 



Simorhynchus . . 128, 129 



Sisymbrium 380 



Sisyrinchium . . . 398, 402 



Sitta 86 



Smyrnium 28 



Solanacese 382, 390, 394, 



399, 406 

 Solanum 382, 391, 394, 



399, 400, 406 



Solea 347 



Solecurtus 59-61 



Soleidae 347 



Solen ... 59, 61, 62, 418 



Solenoglyphae .... 108 



Solidago . . .34, 306, 385 



Somalia 181 



Somateria 138 



Sophora 354 



Sorbus 47, 315 



Sparidae 341 



Sparisoma 343 



Spartina . . .46, 270, 314 



Spartocentrum .... 282 



Spatula 498 



Speotyto .... 209, 354 



Sphaeralcea 381 



Sphseroides 344 



Sphecodes 56 



Sphyraena 340 



Sphyraenidae 340 



Sphyrapicus 210 



Spinus .... 83,213, 214 



Spiraea .... 26, 49, 301 



Spiranthes 398 



Spiroceramus 281 



Spirostemma 270 



Spisula 418 



Spizella .... 83, 214 



Spondyliosoma .... 342 



Squalida? 339 



Stachys 405 



Stauroneis 422-427 



Steganopodes 497 



Stegastes 343 



Steuanthium 397 



Stenodermata 333 



Stephanopyxis .... 423 



Stercorariidae 130 



Stercorarius . . . 130, 131 



Sterna 133 



Sternobrithes 157 



Stevia . 392, 396, 397, 400 



Stipa 45, 314 



Stratiomyidae 157 



Strigilla 62 



Stropbina . . 269,271, 279 



Struthiolaria 190 



Sturnella .... 82, 213 



Subulina 284 



Succinea 354 



Surirella 110 



Swertia 36 



Sylvania 86 



Sympetrum 154 



Symphoricarpos . . 49, 400 



Synodontidae 340 



Synodus 340 



Syuceca ....;.. 446 




542 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



Synthyris 39, 310 



Syrnium 80 



Syrphidse 159 



Syrphus 159 



Tabanidse 157 



Tabanus 158 



Tabulina 470 



Tachycineta ... . 84, 216 



Tagelus 59-62 



Tagetes 391, 392 



Talinum .... 386, 388, 412 



Tamias 122, 123 



Tatua 457 



Taxodium 413 



Tecoma 386 



Teiidse 103, 108 



Telephoromyia 74 



Tellina 62, 418, 429 



Testudinidse 101 



Testudo 101 



Tethys 193 



Tetraodontidse 344 



Thalossoma 343 



Thalia 412 



Thalictruni 403 



Thaumasia 268, 270 



Thryothorus 217 



Thynnus 72 



Tigarea 26 



Tomelasmus .... 271, 276 



Tomigerus 283 



Tornatina 418 



Tonicella 287 



Totanus 139 



Toxifera 190 



Trachelia 269 



Trachinidse 346 



Trachinus 346 



Trachurus 341 



Trachydermon . . . 287, 290 

 Tradescantia ..... 393, 402 



Tramea 143, 144 



Triceratium 423 



Trichechus 196, 197 



Trichotropis 462 



Trifolium 24, 299, 380, 403, 404 



Trigla 347 



Triglidse 347 



Trigonia 462, 464 



Trigoniarca 462 



Trillium 44, 313 



Tringa 139 



Trithenria 146 



Trochilus 81, 211 



Troglodytes ... 86, 139, 354 



Tropidurus 102 



Trypeta 163 



Trypetida? 163 



Tuba 462, 464 



Tupinambis . . .103, 104, 106 



Turbo 267 



Turbonilla 418, 419 



Turdus 87, 218 



Turritella . . . 419,462, 463 



Tylonycteris 321 



Tyrannus 81, 211 



Umbelliferaj . . 390, 398, 405 



Umbrina 342 



Uria 129, 140 



Urinator . . 126 



Urinatores 495 



Urinatoridse 126 



Urocoptidse 476 



Urocoptis 267, 270, 273, 



281, 282 



Urophycis 347 



Urosalpinx 417, 418 



Urostrophus . . . .102, 104 



Urticacese 402 



Vaccinium 36, 307 



Veleda 462 



Vendrysia 280 



Veniella 462 



Venus 418 



Veratrum 44, 313 



Verbenacese .... 390, 411 



Vespertilio 321 



Vesperus 321 



Viburnum 482-484 



Viola 405 



Violacese 405 



Vireo 84, 85, 216 



Volutacea' • 191 



Volutida? 192 



Volutomitra .... 191, 192 

 Weldenia 402 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



543 



Wigandia 373 



Xanthomyx .... 229, 230 



Xema 132 



Xenopicus 210 



Xerophyllum .... 44, 313 



Yoldia 419 



Zaraelodia 84 



Zea 413 



Zenaidura ... 79, 208, 354 



Zexmenia 392 



Zinnia 392 



Zizania 46, 314 



Zonites 67 



Zonochroa 178 



Zonotrichia 139, 214 



Zornia 388, 393 



Zygadenus 45, 313 



Zygonyx 146 




544 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1898. 



GENERAL INDEX. 

 1898. 



Allen, Harrison M. D. and 

 George H. Horn, M. D., pro- 

 ceedings of a meeting held in 

 commemoration of, 11. 



Arnold, Crawford, announce- 

 ment of death of, 11. 



Barber, C. M. and T. D. A. Cock- 

 erell. A new weasel from 

 New Mexico, 89, 188. 



Barr, Martin W., M. D. Idiocy, 

 educationally, 89. 



Bascom, Florence. Petrographic 

 methods of rock determination, 

 488. 



Biological and Microscopical Sec- 

 tion, report of the, 512. 



Botanical Section, report of the 

 515. 



Boyer, C. S. Some new species 

 of diatoms (Plate XXIV), 

 262, 468. Report of the Bio- 

 logical and Microscopical Sec- 

 tion, 512. 



Brinton, Daniel G., M. D. The 

 ethnology of the Philippines, 

 467. Report of Professor of 

 Ethnology, 519. 



Brown, Stewardson. Report of 

 the Botanical Section, 515. 



Calvert, Philip P. Odonata 

 (Dragonflies) from the Indian 

 Ocean and from Kashmir, col- 

 lected by Dr. W. L. Abbott, 

 141. The radula in the squid, 

 202. 



Chapman, Henry C, M. D. 

 Notes on the squid, 202. Re- 

 port of Curators, 509. 



Cockerell, T. D. A. New and 

 little-known bees from Wash- 

 ington State, 50. 



Committee on Hayden Memorial 

 Award, appointment of, 205. 

 Report of, 338. 



Committees, Standing, for 1898, 

 9. 



Conchological Section, report of 

 the, 513. 



Conklin, E. G. Environmental 

 and sexual dimorphism in 

 Crepidula(Plates XXI,XXII, 

 XXIII), 262, 435. 



Cope, Francis R. The summer 

 birds of Susquehanna Co., 

 Penna., 9, 76. 



Corresponding Secretary, report 

 of, 504. 



Coues, Elliott, M. D. Notes on 

 Mr. Meehan's paper on the 

 plants of Lewis and Clark's 

 Expedition across the conti- 

 nent, 1804-06, 262, 291. 



Council and Standing Commit- 

 tees for 1899, 520. 



Crosse, J. C. H., announcement 

 of death of, 429. 



Curators, report of, 509. 



Dall, William H. Synopsis of 

 recent and tertiary Psammobi- 

 idse of North America, 57. On 

 the genus Halia of Risso, 89, 

 190. 



DeCamp, Wm. H, announce- 

 ment of death of, 429. 



Elections during 1898, 521. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



1898.] 



Entomological Section, report of 

 the, 514. 



Fox, William, J. Contributions 

 to a knowledge of the Hyinen- 

 optera of Brazil, No. 4. Thyn- 

 ninse and additions, 9, 72. 

 Contributions to a knowledge 

 of the Hymenoptera of Brazil, 

 No. 5. Vespida?, 429, 445. 

 Synopsis of the United States 

 species of the hymenopterous 

 genus Centris Fabr., 488. 



Frazer, Dr. Persifor. Glimpses of 

 Russia in Europe, Asia and 

 Asia Minor, 11. 



General Index, 544. 



Goldsmith, E. Volcanic rocks 

 of Mesozoic age in Pennsyl- 

 vania, (Plates II, III, IV, V), 

 90. The petrifaction of fossil 

 bones, 98. 



Hall, James, announcement of 

 death of, 357. 



Hamilton, S. Harbert. The 

 occurrence of Marcasite in the 

 Raritan formation of N. J., 

 479, 485. 



Harshberger, J. W., M. D, Bo- 

 tanical observations on the 

 Mexican flora especially on 

 the flora of the Valley of Mex- 

 ico, 263, 372. 



Heilprin, Angelo. Geology and 

 physical geography of the 

 Klondike GoldMiniugRegion, 

 488. 



Hough, Garry de N., M. D. The 

 Muscidse collected by Dr. 

 Donaldson Smith in Somali- 

 land, 155,165. 



Index to Genera, etc., 531. 



James, J. Wharton. The 

 Enchanted Mesa, 467. 



Jefferis, Wm. W., appointment 

 as Curator of the William S. 

 Vaux collections, 205. Report 

 on William S. Vaux collec- 

 tions, 512. 



545 



Johnson, Charles W. Diptera 

 collected by Dr. A. Donald- 

 son Smith in Somaliland, East- 

 ern Africa, 157. New cretace- 

 ous fossils from an artesian 

 well-boring at Mount Laurel, 

 N. J., 429, 461. 

 Jordan, David Starr and James 

 Alexander Gunn, Jr. List of 

 fishes collected at the Canary k 

 Islands by Mr. O. F. Cook, 

 with descriptions of four new 

 species, 338, 339. 

 Judson, Oliver A., M. D., an- 

 nouncement of death of, 202. 

 Keller, Ida A. Notes on the 

 growth of Viburnum lantan- 

 oides (Plate XXV), 479, 482. 

 Letson, E. J. Description of a 

 new Tethys (Aplesia), (Plate 

 VIII), 89, 193. 

 Libbey, William, Jr. The En- 

 chanted Mesa, 467. 

 Librarian, report of, 505. 

 McKean, Thomas, announcement 



of death of, 155. 

 Marcou, Jules, announcement of 



death of, 338. 

 Meehan, Thomas. The plants of 

 Lewis and Clark's expedition 

 across the continent, 1804- 

 1806, 12. Report of the Botan- 

 ical Section, 515. 

 Mercer, Henry C. The bone cave 

 at Port Kennedy and its par- 

 tial examination in 1894, 1895 

 and 1896, 479. 

 Merriam, C. Hart. Description 

 of three new rodents from the 

 Olympic Mountains, Washing- 

 ton, 351, 352. 

 Miller, Gerrit S., Jr. List of bats 

 collected by Dr. W. S. Abbott 

 in Siam, 262,316. Descriptions 

 of five new Phyllostome bats, 

 262, 326. A new Chipmunk 

 from Northeastern China, 338, 

 348. Descriptions of a new 




546 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



genus and species of Microtine 

 rodent from Siberia, 357, 368. 

 Notes on the Arctic Red- 

 backed mice, 357, 358. 



Mills, Chas. K., M. D. Idiocy, 

 physiologically, 89. 



Mineralogical and Geological 

 Section, report of the, 517. 



Moore, Clarence B. Certain ab- 

 original mounds of the South 

 Carolina coast, 262, 263. Cer- 

 tain aborignal mounds of the 

 Savannah River, 262, 263. 

 Certain aboriginal mounds of 

 theAltamaha River, 262, 263. 

 Recent acquisitions, 262, 263. 



Moore, J. Percy. Hyalodendron 

 navalium, a new genus and 

 species of Euplectillid sponge 

 (Plate XIX, XX), 338, 430. 



Morris, Charles. On the antiquity 

 of man from the standpoint of 

 evolution, 263. 



Nolan, Edw. J., M. D. A memo- 

 rial of Dr. Joseph Leidy, 465. 

 Report of RecordingSecretary, 

 500. Report of Librarian, 505. 



Officers, Councillors and Finance 

 Committee for 1899, 520. 



Ornithological Section, report of 

 the, 518. 



Palmer, T. Chalkley. Errant 

 frustules of Eunotia major, 

 (Plates VI, VII), 89, 110. 



Perot, Charles P., announcement 

 of death of, and memorial min- 

 ute, 479. 



Pilsbry, Henry A. The function 

 of the radula, 202. Chitons 

 collected by Dr. Harold Heath 

 at Pacific Grove, near Mon- 

 terey, Cal., 262, 287. A new 

 land snail from Clarion Island, 

 351, 354. New species of Odon- 

 tostomus from Brazil and 

 Argentina, 429, 471. Margar- 

 ita Sharpii, a new Alaskan 

 gastropod, 479, 486. Report 



[1898. 



of the Conchological Section, 

 513. Report of Professor in 

 Department of Mollusca, 519. 



Pilsbry, H. A. andE. G. Vanatta. 

 Anatomical notes on certain 

 West American Helices, 

 (Plate I), 67. Revision of the 

 North American slugs : Bin- 

 neya, Hemphillia, Hespera- 

 rion, Prophysaon and Anaden- 

 ulus. (Plates IX, X, XI, 

 XII, XIII, XIV, XV, XVI), 

 156, 219. Material toward a 

 natural classification of the 

 Cylindrelloid snails (Plates 

 XVII, XVIII), 203, 264. 

 Some Cuban species of Cerion, 

 465, 475. 



Rand, Theodore D. The Birds- 

 boro trap quarries, 10. Report 

 of the Mineralogical and Geo- 

 logical Section, 517. 



Recording Secretary, report of, 

 500. 



Report of Biological and Micro- 

 scopical Section, 512. 



Report of the Botanical Section, 

 515. 



Report of the Conchological Sec- 

 tion, 513. 



Report of Corresponding Secre- 

 tary, 504. 



Report of Curators, 509. 



Report of the Entomological Sec- 

 tion, 514. 



Report of Librarian, 505. 



Report of the Mineralogical and 

 Geological Section, 517. 



Report of the Ornithological Sec- 

 tion, 518. 



Report of Recording Secretary, 

 500. 



Report on William S. Vaux 

 Collections, 512. 



Reports of the Professors, 519. 



Rhoads, Samuel N. On a small 

 collection of mammals from 

 Northeastern China, 11, 120. 




1898.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



547 



A new grasshopper mouse from 

 New Mexico, 155, 194. Notes 

 on the fossil walrus of Eastern 

 North America, 155, 196. 



Sandberger, Fridolin, announce- 

 ment of death of, 338. 



Seale, Alvin. Notes on Alaskan 

 Water Birds, 11, 126. 



Shallcross, John, announcement 

 of death of, 479. 



Sharp, Benjamin, M. D. Rock 

 inscriptions in Kauai, Hawai- 

 ian Islands, 203. Report of 

 Corresponding Secretary, 504. 



Shufeldt, R. W., M. D. Some 

 observations on the classifica- 

 tion of birds, 480, 489. 



Singerly,Wm. M., announcement 

 of death of, 155. 



Skinner, Henry, M. D. Report 

 of the Entomological Section, 

 514. Report of Professor in 

 Department of Insecta, 519. 



Spill er, Wm. G., M. D. Idiocy, 

 anatomically, 89. 



Stone, Witmer. On the breeding 

 habits of birds of Eastern 

 Pennsylvania, 155. A study of 

 the type specimens of birds in 

 the collection of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia, with a brief history of 

 the collection, 480. Occur- 

 rence of Oryzomys palustris in 



Southern New Jersey, 480. 

 Report of the Ornithological 

 Section, 518. 



Torell, Otto Martin, reception of 

 Hayden Memorial Award, 338. 

 Biographical notice of, 355. 



Valentine, John K., announce- 

 ment of death of, 11. 



Van Denburgh, John. The Ger- 

 rhonotus of the San Lucan 

 fauna, Lower California, with 

 diagnosis of other West Amer- 

 ican species, 63. Birds ob- 

 served in Central California in 

 the summer of 1893, 156, 206. 



Vaux, J. Wain, announcement 

 of death of, 262. 



Von Ihering, Dr. H. Contribu- 

 tions to the herpetology of Sao 

 Paulo, Brazil.-I, 101. 



AVarner, Redwood F., announce- 

 ment of death of, 488. 



Wernwag, Theodore, announce- 

 ment of death of, 262. 



William S. Vaux Collections, 

 report on, 512. 



Witmer, Lightner. Idiocy, 

 physiologically, 89. 



Woolman, Lewis and Charles S. 

 Boyer. Fossil mollusks and 

 diatoms beneath the Dismal 

 Swamp, Virginia and North 

 Carolina. With notes on the 

 diatoms, 11, 414. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1898. 



PLATE I. 



PILSBRY AND VANATTA. ANATOMY OF HELICID/E. 





CO 



« 

 U 

 O 



cc 

 o 



5 



N 



o 



W 



O 



z 



< 

 o 



o 

 > 





CO 



Q 

 J 



O 



o 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 189S. 



PLATE III. 





GOLDSMITH. VOLCANIC MESOZOIC ROCKS. 







GO 



O 



O 

 a: 



o 



o 



N 



o 



GO 



u 



z 



< 

 o 



o 

 > 



h 



co 

 Q 



_J 

 O 



o 







PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1898. 



PLATE VI. 



f 



Z 



s-T? C^^ 



3 



^ — =-£. 





* 



I 



US'- 



7 





<6 



\j i i 



H f 



PALMER. MOVEMENTS OF EUNOTIA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1898. 



PLATE VII. 



I •* CI 



Ms 





> 



PALMER. MOVEMENTS OF EUNOTIA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1898. 



PLATE VIII. 



TETHYS PILSBRYI letson. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 189S. 



PLATE IX. 



7ft. 



.vrii. 





<Miu&imm 



2 



6 



13 



9 10 11 



8 



Pilsbrv and Van at t a del. 



PILSBRY AND VANATTA. NORTH AMERICAN SLUGS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. I 



PLATE X. 



V.m 



24 



m 



15 



17 



18 



fifi! 



19 



21 





20 



22 



26 





26 



27 



Pilsbry and Vanatta del. 



PILSBRY AND VANATTA. NORTH AMERICAN SLUGS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1898. 



PLATE XL 



Pilsbry and Vanatta del. 



PILSBRY AND VANATTA. NORTH AMERICAN SLUGS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 189S. 



PLATE XII. 



Pilsbrv and Vanatta del. 



PILSBRY AND VANATTA. NORTH AMERICAN SLUGS. 







PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1898 



PLATE XIII. 



■muse 



Filsbrv and Vanatta del. 



PILSBRY AND VANATTA. NORTH AMERICAN SLUGS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHI LA. 1898. 



PLATE XIV. 



A.tr. 



Pilsbry and Vanatta del. 



P1LSBRY AND VANATTA. NORTH AMERICAN SLUGS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1898. 



PLATE XV. 



Pilsbry and Vanatta del. 



PILSBRY AND VANATTA. NORTH AMERICAN SLUGS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1898. 



PLATE 



Pilsbry and Vanatta del. 



PILSBRY AND VANATTA. NORTH AMERICAN SLUGS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PH1LA. 1898. 



PJ A I'K XVII 



Pilsbn mid V:i ta del. 



PiLSBRYAND VANATTA. CYLIN DRELLOID SNAILS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1898. 



PLATK XVIII. 



Hil-I.rv and Vanatta del. 



PILSBRY AND VANATTA. CYLINDRELLOI D SNAILS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1898. 



PLATE XIX. 





. 



I 





*\ ' ' 



" I 







HYALODENDRON NAVALIUM moore. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. -1898. 



PLATE XX. 



HYALODENDRON NAVALIUM MOORE. 





X 



X 



< 



0* 





< 



J 



1 



< 



z 



Q 

 < 



< 



u 

 O 

 K 









PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1898. 



PLATE XXIV. 



¥ 



1 

 »■*' * 



1 * 



; 



i 



m 



iii 



\a 



\b 





C+lSiXpZj.' : -■£■££* 



O 



iHHH^HH 



BOYER ON DIATOMS. 







PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1898. 



PLATE XXV. 



KELLER ON VIBURNUM LANTANOIDES. 






u 



V*""""" 



/ 









l^'i ■ ■ 







"w ih 







*< * ~~ ! * 



*vx 



- , 'is 





fejj 






el /- 



•*"> ?"v*« 





<J •'" 



# *>'* 





ifcyjii 



4 a? 



V~*^/ 





i r *^ > j* p. .. 





» ... 



< v 'o* §?* . ^ i> ^a; 



•Vs.' > «fc a 







.. 



-**r 



•' ,Jw*r 



- V 





v».J-Jr i-j. 

 '. ■--■* 



1 . s .„■ _ 



$■ ■ 



1 



^ j^L* 



> > 







" *■- J' *** ■ 





- "V * 





7? 





« 





<f> .>-w". ^. . 





