



PROCEEDINGS 



OP THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA 



1879 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 

 Joseph Leidt, M.D., Geo. H. Horn, M.D., 



Wm. S. Vaux, Thomas Meehan, 



J. H. Redfield. 



Editor : EDWARD J. NOLAN, M.D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



S. W. Corner Nineteenth and Race Streets. 



1880. 




N{ 30 l 



Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 



March, 1880. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of the Proceedings for 1879 have been 

 presented at the meetings of the Academy, as follows : 



Pages 9 to 24 . . . . March 25, 1879. 



25 to 56 

 57 to 136 

 137 to 152 

 153 to 184 

 185 to 200 

 201 to 216 

 217 to 280 

 281 to 376 

 Page 377 et seq. 



April 

 May 

 July 

 August 



15, 1879. 

 13, 1879. 

 29, 1879. 

 12, 1879. 



. November 4, 1879. 



. December 2, 1879. 



. January 6, 1880. 



. February 17, 1880. 



. March 9, 1880. 



EDWARD J. NOLAN, 



Recording Secretary. 



PHTLADELPHIA I 

 COLLINS, PRINTER. 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS, 



With reference to the several articles contributed by each. 

 For Verbal Communications see General Index. 



Bergh, R. On the Nudibranchiate Gasteropod Mollusca of the North 



Pacific Ocean, with special reference to those of Alaska 71 



Binney, W. G. On the Land Shells of the Mexican Island of Guade- 

 loupe, collected by Dr. E. Palmer 16 



Chapman, H. C. On the Structure of the Chimpanzee 52 



Notes on the Amphiuma 144 



Placenta of Macacus Cynomolgus 146 



Cope, E. D. On the Genera of Felidse and Canida? 168 



Ellis, J. B. On the Variability of Sphasria Quercuum, Schw 66 



Reply to Dr. M. C. Cooke's criticism of paper on " Variability of 



Sphasria Quercuum, Sz." 381 



Garrett, Andrew. List of Land Shells inhabiting Rurutu, one of the 

 Austral Islands, with Remarks on their Synonymy, Geographical 



Range, and Descriptions of new Species 17 



Description of a new Species of Goniobranchus , 31 



Greene, Wm. H., and A. J. Parker. Note on Hyraceum 12, 379 



Heilprin, Angelo. On some new Eocene Fossils from the Claiborne 



Marine Formation of Alabama 211 



A comparison of the Eocene Mollusca of the Southeastern United 

 States and Western Europe in relation to the determination of 



identical Forms 217 



Kingsley, J. S. On a Collection of Crustacea from Virginia, North 

 Carolina, and Florida, with a Revision of the Genera of Crango- 



nidse and Palsemonidse 383 



Lockington, W. N. On a new Genus and Species of Sconibridse 133 



Lyon, Victor W. Description of three new Species of Calceolidae from 



the Upper Silurian Rocks of Kentucky 43 



Ryder, J. A. Morphological Notes on the Limbs of Amphiumidse as 



indicating a possible synonymy of the supposed Genera 14 



Further Notes on the Mechanical Genesis of Tooth-forms 47 



Description of a new Species of Chirocephalus 148 



Description of a new Branchipod 200 



Wachsmuth, Chas., and Frank Springer. Revision of the Palseocri- 



noidea 226 



/ & ~h -j. I 





PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1879. 



January 7, 1ST9. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Forty-seven persons present. 



A paper entitled "Description of a New Species of Goniobran- 

 chns," by Andrew Garrett, was presented for publication. 



The death of the Rev. Dr. E. R. Beadle was announced. 



A committee consisting: of Mr. J. H. Redfield, Dr. R. E. Rogers, 

 and Dr. Jos. Leidy was appointed to draft a resolution expressive 

 of tne Academy's esteem for the late Rev. Dr. Beadle. 



January 14. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Forty persons present. 



A paper entitled " List of Land Shells inhabiting Rurutu. one 

 of the Austral Islands," by Andrew Garrett, was presented for 

 publication. 



The Committee appointed to prepare a resolution upon the 

 death of the late Rev. Dr. Beadle presented the following, which 

 was unanimously adopted: 



Resolved, That in the death of our late associate, the Rev. Dr. 

 Elias R. Beadle, we have to mourn the loss of an ardent, reverent, 



2 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



and sincere seeker for truth, whose attainments in knowledge were 

 so broad, and so diversified, as to command our respect and admi- 

 ration, and whose large and loving heart was so manifest in all 

 his deportment and intercourse with us, as to win our esteem and 

 affection. We, therefore, join our sympathies with all those who 

 have been bereft of Ins instruction, his example, and his fellowship, 

 and we direct that these sentiments be placed upon our records, 

 and a copy of the same be transmitted to the familj- of the de- 

 ceased. 



January 21. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirty-four persons present. 



A paper entitled " Notes on some Pacific Coast Fishes," by W. 

 N. Lockington, was presented for publication. 



Solidago odora as a " Tea 11 Plant. Mr. Thomas Meehan drew 

 attention to some snmples of dried leaves that had been sent for 

 identification, and which are represented to be in extensive use in 

 Berks Co., Pa., as a beverage under the name of "Blue Mountain 

 Tea." Mr. Meehan found the leaves to belong to Solidago odora, 

 The infusion had a slight taste of fennel, by no means disagree- 

 able, but yet with little more attractions than catnip, or any ordi- 

 nary " herb tea," might present. 



January 28. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirty-two persons present. 



A paper entitled " Further Notes on the Mechanical Genesis of 

 Tooth-forms," by Jno. A. Ryder, was presented for publication. 



On Gordius, and on some Parasites of the Rat. Prof. Leidy 

 exhibited a curious knotted mass of living hair-worms, Gordius 

 ?*obustus? which had been sent to him by Dr. S. T. Roman, of 

 Conowingo, Cecil Co., Md. The mass had been picked up in a 

 gutter at the edge of a forest near Conowingo, on a rainy morning 

 of Dec. 15, 1878. It contained 52 male individuals, and 7 females. 

 The former ranged from 8 to 25 centimetres in length, by \ to 

 of a millimetre in thickness; the latter range from 14 to 19^ cen- 

 timetres in length, by 1 millimetre in thickness. The females are 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



generally of much lighter color, and more robust character than 

 the males. In both sexes the body is most attenuated anteriorly, 

 but in the female the body is nearly as thick at the posterior ex- 

 tremity as it is at the middle. Some of the smaller males are pale 

 brownish-white, but most of them, from the smallest to the largest, 

 are of various shades of brown to chocolate-brown. The females 

 are pale brownish to darker brownish. In both sexes the head 

 forms a convex, whitish eminence, encircled by a narrow black 

 ring, from which a hand of brown extends dorsal ly and ventrally 

 along the body. The posterior end of the body is likewise of 

 darker color than the part just in advance. 



The tail of the male makes a spiral turn inwardly, and is furcate. 

 The forks are short, curved, slightly divergent, blunt conical pro- 

 cesses. Just in advance of their conjunction internally, there 

 exists an inverted crescentic fold of browner color than the con- 

 tiguous parts, and immediately in advance is the genital pore. 

 The interval of the caudal forks is smooth, or free from papillae. 



The tail of the female appears truncated; is bluntly rounded, 

 feebly clavate, or slightly thicker than just in advance, and nearly 

 as thick as the middle of the body. It presents a terminal pore, 

 marked by a brown spot, and encircled with a brown ring. 



Under a moderate magnifying power, the brown integument is 

 minutely mottled with whitish spots, and it exhibits fine longitu- 

 dinal and diagonal striation. In sunlight it is beautifully irides- 

 cent as in the earth-worm. 



The worms are still quite lively. When disentangled and left 

 alone they soon become again knotted together in a compact 

 rounded mass as at present, with the heads divergent, and writhing 

 so as to remind one of the head of the fabled Medusa. 



Prof. Leidy then directed attention to several other specimens 

 which had been sent to him for information. One of these is a 

 bunch of tapeworms, 15 individuals of Taenia diminuta, from the 

 intestine of a rat. The other is the liver of a rat, with a multitude 

 of cysts, the size of large peas, containing Cyxticercus fasciolaris. 

 In a letter, accompanying the specimens, Dr. John R. Hewett 

 states, that last spring he had examined about 500 rats (Mm de- 

 cumanus), in Carroll Co., Mo., and only in half a dozen instances 

 did he find the liver free from the parasite. 



Messrs. Geo. A Binder, Jacob Binder, Charles Henry Hart, and 

 H. Dumont Wagner were elected members. 



The following papers were ordered to be printed: 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1S79. 



NOTE ON HYRACETJM. 

 BY WM. H. GREENE, M.D., AND A. J. PARKER, M.D. 



Among the native remedies from the Cape of Good Hope, ex- 

 hibited at the Centennial Exhibition, was a peculiar substance 

 called hyraeeum, which was supposed to be the inspissated urine 

 of the Cape Hyrax {Hyrax capensis). 



The material was obtained from Dr. Leidy, who, in the Pro- 

 ceedings of the Acadeni}-, December, 1816, p. 325, gave a short 

 account of it. According to this account, " the Hyrax is reputed 

 to inhabit gregariously rocky places at the Cape of Good Hope, 

 and the accumulated urine in the hollows of rocks, gradually 

 evaporating, is supposed to give rise to the product in question. 

 It is reported as having been employed in medicine with the same 

 effect as castoreum." 



Prof. Cope remarked that "a material resembling the concre- 

 tion made by the urine of the Hyrax was found in the fissure's of 

 the rocks of New Mexico. It is probably the fecal and renal 

 deposit of the wild rat, Neotoma." 



About two years ago, we made an exhaustive examination of 

 this substance. It is a dark-brown, brittle, and resinous material, 

 having an aromatic odor, and a bitter taste. About 56 per cent, 

 of it is soluble in water, and nearly one-third of the residue from 

 the aqueous extraction is soluble in alcohol, ether, and chloroform. 



The soluble material amounts in all to about 70 per cent., and 

 the remainder is composed of 14 per cent, of woody fibre and 

 insoluble organic material, and 16 per cent, of sand and other 

 inorganic substances. 



On ignition, hyraeeum yields about 34 per cent, of ash, which 

 is composed of chlorides, sulphates, phosphates, and carbonates 

 of the alkaline metals, and of lime and magnesia. It also contains 

 nitrates in small proportion. 



On precipitating the organic material contained in the aqueous 

 extract with lead acetate, and afterwards decomposing the sus- 

 pended precipitate by means of sulphuric acid, a substance was 

 obtained which constitutes the greater portion of the organic 

 material soluble in water. It was hard, horny, and of a resinous 

 character, transparent, and of a bright brown tint. It probably 

 consists of several substances, but we were unable to obtain a 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



sufficient quantity for separation, and an ultimate organic analysis. 

 It gives out a fecal odor, and seems to be derived from fecal matter. 

 The analysis, the details of which are subjoined, shows that the 

 substance is a mixture of various salts and organic matter, the 

 latter constituting about one-half, and containing traces of urea, 

 together with uric, hippuric, and benzoic acids. We also obtained 

 from the material a small quantity of a substance having a sweet 

 taste, and which is probably glycocol(?) derived from the breaking 

 up of hippuric into benzoic acid, and this substance. 



Hyraceum is undoubtedly derived from the urine of some animal, 

 but the large amount of lime (6 per cent.) in proportion to the 

 other salts, and the character of the organic matter contained, in- 

 dicates that it also contains fecal matter. 



Analysis of Hyraceum. Water, by dessication, 7 per cent. 

 A microscopical examination revealed nothing of importance. 

 Woody fibres, particles of sand, and a general granular appear- 

 ance were found. 



Dried Material. 



Ash 34.15 



Organic substances soluble in water . . . 37.44 

 " " " alcohol, ether, 



and chloroform 14.54 



Woody fibre, and insoluble organic substances ; 

 residue 13.87 



100.00 

 Ash. 



Soluble in water 19.20 



Insoluble " 14.95 



Potassa 2.95 



Soda 8.95 



Lime 6.00 



Magnesia 2.10 



Iron 12 



Sand 2.00 



Sulphuric acid GO 



Carbonic " 3.64 



Phosphoric acid 97 



Chlorine 6.45 



Traces of nitric acid, and loss 37 



4.15 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



MORPHOLOGICAL NOTES ON THE LIMBS OF THE AMPHITJMIDJE, AS 

 INDICATING A POSSIBLE SYNONYMY OF THE SUPPOSED GENERA. 



BY JOHN A. RYDER. 



Little attention has apparently been given to the comparative 

 history of the limbs of the known species of Amphiuma. Very 

 young specimens do not seem to have been usually collected for 

 museums. I have had the opportunity to study such a series 

 varying from 6 to 8 inches long, and about ^th inch, or a little 

 more, in diameter; the} r were obtained in the vicinity of Biloxi, 

 Mississippi, and are the property of the Smithsonian Institution 

 at Washington. 



From these it appears that the digital elements of the limbs 

 are variable, or liable to variation in the same individual, so that 

 in some the number of digits (two) is characteristic of Amphiuma, 

 and in others (three) they are characteristic of Muraenopsis. This 

 blending of the characters of the two genera may be illustrated 

 as follows, indicating the number of digits on each limb by nume- 

 rals, arranged in fours, the first pair representing the digital for- 

 mula of the four limbs, thus: (1) f ; (2) ; (3) | f ; and (4) 

 \ | ; there was also a form which exhibited no outward indication 

 of toes on the front pair of limbs, the digits being inclosed in a 

 common investing integument ; this fifth form may be represented 



j 2 3 

 in this manner ^ It is plain from the foregoing, that at no very 



remote period the two forms which are now believed to character- 

 ize distinct genera were probably one and the same. The three- 

 toed form (Muraenopsis) is said to be confined to the Southern 

 United States, whilst the two-toed form (Amphiuma) is more 

 widely distributed, extending farther north, and also embracing 

 the distribution of the former. The digital formula of (1) is 

 Amphiuma in the front pair, and Muraenopsis in the hind pair of 

 limbs; that of (2) is Amphiuma on one side in the hinder pair, 

 and Muraenopsis on the other. Normal individuals of both genera 

 also occur, as in (3) and (4); while (5) represents the beginning 

 of the differentiation of a third generic type, if the number of 

 digits be good and sufficient to characterize genera. Prof. Cope, 

 who has probably handled more specimens of Amphibia than any 

 other American naturalist, informs me that he thinks these varia- 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



tions very uncommon, as he has never in his experience met with 

 any instance in which there was as much variation in the number 

 of digits as exhibited in these Biloxi specimens. They can hardly, 

 however, be regarded as monstrosities, as the percentage of varying 

 specimens in this series is entirely too high. I am inclined to be- 

 lieve that they are simply instances on the one hand of reversion 

 toward a still older, and more unspecialized type, and on the 

 other of a tendency to become specialized or reduced, as in the 

 case where the two digits are covered by a common tegumental 

 investment. If the distribution of species will in any ease serve 

 to throw light upon the differentiation of genera, I think that in 

 this instance we may assume, with much show of reason, that the 

 individuals most remote from the centre of maximum development 

 of species and individuals exhibit the greatest tendency towards 

 digital reduction. The most northern form, Amjihiuma, seems to 

 be constantly didactyle, whilst the more southern forms are both 

 di- and tridactyle, which would seem to indicate that the forms 

 most remote from the centre of distribution have been under con- 

 ditions tending to produce didaetylism synchronously with di- and 

 tridactylism at the centre aforementioned. This, however, is only 

 a hypothetical view of the case. 



The admission of Mursenopsis and Amphiuma to generic rank on 

 account of a difference, which is here shown not to be constant, is 

 doubtful. The digits, which from the fact of their having under- 

 gone reduction, seem to be not so much rudiments as vestiges of 

 former digits, render the legitimacy of the distinction even more 

 open to question. For I think it cannot be doubted that such 

 a tendency to degenerate, accompanied with a consequent ten 

 dency to produce synthetic characters, shows clearly that nature 

 has not yet concluded that they shall be genera, notwithstanding 

 the dicta and definitions of systernatists. 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1819- 



ON THE LAND SHELLS OF THE MEXICAN ISLAND OF GUADELTJPE, 

 COLLECTED BY DR. E. PALMER. 



BY W. G. BINNEY. 



The island of Guadelupe is about 220 miles from San Diego, off 

 the west coast of Lower California. Its molluscous fauna has for 

 the first time been made known by the researches of Dr. Edward 

 Palmer, who visited it in 1875. He found numerous fragments of 

 snail shells which had been devoured by a species of mouse, the 

 only inhabitant of the island. These fragments appear to belong 

 to Arionta Roivelli, Newcomb (see L. & F. W. Sh. of N. A. I. p. 

 185), a species found in Lower California. Some perfect shells 

 were found, among them a smaller variety. Arionta facta, Xew- 

 conib, was also found, the variety with open umbilicus, like that 

 form found fossil on San Nicolas Island, California. 



The most interesting discovery, however, is that of living spe- 

 cimens of Binneya notabilis, a species found also on the California 

 island of Santa Barbara. There is strong reason for believing 

 the Mexican genus Xanthonyx to be synonymous with Binneya. 

 We may suppose, therefore, that from Mexico the genus has been 

 introduced by the usual means of distribution to this island of 

 Guadelupe, and thence to Santa Barbara. Thus, its presence on 

 the latter island is accounted for, which was not the case when 

 we had only the mainland of California to look to, as its absence 

 there has been proved. So, also, in the case of Arionta, facta, we 

 ma3 T account for its distribution by supposing it to have been in- 

 troduced from some unknown locality on the mainland to Guade- 

 lupe first, and thence to the California islands. 



The specimens collected are in the Museum of the Boston 

 Society of Natural Histoiy. 



Four species of Orthoptera were collected also. One of these 

 is shown by Dr. Scudder to be identical with a Mexican species, 

 and two of the others have also been found at San Diego. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



LIST OF LAND SHELLS INHABITING RURUTU, ONE OF THE AUSTRAL 

 ISLANDS, WITH REMARKS ON THEIR SYNONYMY, GEOGRAPHICAL 

 RANGE, AND DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES. 



BY ANDREW GARRETT. 



The small island of Rurutu = Oheatora of Capt. Cook, lies in 

 south lat. 22 34', and west Ion. 150 13', which is about 320 miles 

 S. S.W. from Tahiti. As near as I can ascertain it is about eight 

 miles in length, and has an elevation of about 1500 feet, over 100 



CT 7 



feet of which consists of ancient coral reefs, which" have been up- 

 heaved to that altitude. 



Mr. Hugh Cumins; was the first who visited the island for. the 

 purpose of collecting shells, and discovered two or three new spe- 

 cies. The next experienced collector, Mr. Charles De Gage, who 

 resides there, gathered a number of land shells, which he kindly 

 forwarded to me for identification, and which form the subject of 

 this paper. 



Microcystis subtilis, Anton. 



Helix subtilis, Anton, Verz. p. 35 ; Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel. vol. II. p. 33 ; 



Reeve, Conch. Icon. pi. Ill, tig. 626. 

 Helix vitrinella, Pfeiffer, Symb. vol. II. p. 41. 

 Helicopsis vitrinella, Beck, Ind. p. 20. 

 Nomina (Microcystis) subtilis, Albert, p. 60. 



Oheatora = Rurutu (Cuming). 



This species was not found by De Gage. 



Microcystis punctifera, sp. nov. 



Shell small, imperforate, orbicular, depressed, thin, smooth, 

 shining, transparent, light-brownish horn color, dotted with white; 

 spire convex ; suture linear; whorls 4|, depressly convex, radi- 

 ately striate beneath the suture, moderately and regularly increas- 

 ing; the last not descending in front, rounded on the periphery ; 

 base indented; aperture sub-vertical, orbicular lunate, wider than 

 deep ; peristome straight, simple, margins remote ; columella 

 slightly thickened with callus. 



Height 3, major diameter, 4j mill. 



It is smaller, and darker colored than subtilis, which latter is 

 pale horn color, and six mill, in diameter. It is more like M. brun- 

 nea collected by Cuming at Pitcairn's Island, which is about the 

 same color, with white dots, but like subtilis is six mill, in diameter. 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



Patula Rurutuensis, sp. nov. 



Shell umbilicate, discoid, thin, translucent, .yellowish-horn color, 

 the spire tessellated, and the last whorl with radiating flexuous 

 fuscous stripes ; radiately ribbed with small thin flexuous costae, 

 and decussated with microscopical raised lines; spire depressly con- 

 vex ; suture sub-canaliculate; whorls 5, convex, narrow, slightly 

 turgid near the suture; slowty and regularly increasing, the last 

 not descending in front, sub-angular on the periphery; umbilicus 

 deep, about one-fourth the major diameter of the shell; aperture 

 somewhat oblique, depressly lunate ; parietal region with a small 

 revolving lamina on the upper third of the wall ; peristome acute, 

 straight, with remote margins. 



Major diameter 3|, height 2 mill. 



The fine spiral stria?, thin ribs, single parietal lamina, and de- 

 pressed sub-angular body whorl are its most prominent characters, 

 and will readily distinguish it from any of the south Polynesian 

 species. 



Pitys De Gagei, sp. nov. 



Shell umbilicate, sub-discoid, thin, translucent, corneous or lute- 

 ous, horn color, spire more or less distinctly tessellated with chest- 

 nut-brown, and the last whorl radiately strigate with the same hue, 

 the stripes sometimes flexuous, and the base either unicolor or 

 adorned with stripes; sculptureconsistingof fine, closely-set, radiat- 

 ing, slightl}' arcuate, thin, costulate strhe, smaller and more crowded 

 beneath; spire convex, apex planulate; suture canaliculate ; whorls 

 6, convex, narrow, swollen next the suture, slowly and regularly 

 increasing, the last not deflected in front, slightly depressed, and 

 somewhat tumid ; base moderately convex, with a small but deep 

 umbilicus; aperture slightly oblique, narrow, lunate; the palate 

 with five, and the parietal wall with three revolving lamina; peris- 

 tome acute, straight, margins remote. 



Major diameter 3, height 1^ mill. 



Closely allied to P. llaupiensis. but may be distinguished by 

 its coarser, rib like stria?, more oblique aperture, smaller umbilicus, 

 and more depressed body whorl. 



Partula hyalina, Broderip. 



Partulahyalina, Broderip, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1833, p. 32. 

 Bulinus hyalinus, Sowerby, Conch. 111. fig. 9. 

 Bulimu* hyalinus, Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel. vol. II. p, 67. 

 Purtulus hyalinus, Beck, Ind. p. 47. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



Judging from the number sent this is an abundant species. A 

 few years ago I received a large quantity from Tubuai, also one 

 of the Austral group, and nearly 100 miles east of Rurutu. That 

 group is, without doubt, its specific centre, or metropolis. 



The most surprising feature in the geographical distribution of 

 this species is its occurrence in three distinct groups of islands. 

 It is found, though sparingly, in nearly every valley in Tahiti, 

 which is over 300 miles from its metropolis. I also obtained it at 

 Mangaia, one of the Cook's or Hervey Islands, 400 miles west of 

 Rurutu. 



Had it only been detected in one or two valleys in Tahiti, its 

 introduction could have been attributed to human agency. But 

 when we consider its wide diffusion we can only account for its 

 presence either by a separate creation of the same species in three 

 groups of islands, or speculate on its distribution in some remote 

 period, when the three groups formed a single large island, or 

 part of a continent. 



After a careful comparison of many examples from the three 

 groups of islands, I cannot detect the slightest variation. Shells 

 from the same locality vary slightly in the length of the spire, in 

 size and thickness. 



It is a strictly arboreal species, and may be distinguished by 

 its uniform white color, flat, and widely-expanded peristome, and 

 gibbous columella lip. 



Reeve's figure is too much elongated. 



Stenogyra juncea, Gould. 



Bulimus junceus, Gould, Proc. Bost. Soc. 1846, p. 191 ; Ex. Shells, p. 



76, fig. 87 Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel. vol. II. p. 220. 

 Stenogyra upolensis, Mousson, Jour. d. Conch. I860, p. 175. 

 Bulimus upolensis, Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel. vol. VI. p. 100. 



This common species is very widely diffused through Polynesia. 

 I have found it inhabiting all the groups north of the equator, 

 and south at all the islands from the Marquesas and Paumotus to 

 the Viti group, and, in all probability, it ranges further west. 



They are found under loose stones, beneath decayed wood, and 

 among dead leaves, and range from near the seashore to 2000 or 

 more feet above sea-level. The animal is light yellow. 



Vertigo pediculus, Shuttleworth. 



Pupa pedieulus, Shutt.,Bern. Mitth. 1852, p. 296 Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel. 

 vol. III. p. 557 Mousson (Var. Samoensis), Jour, de Conch. 1865, 

 p. 175. 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1870. 



Vertigo pediculus, Pfeiffer, Vers. p. ITT. 



Pupa uphyradium (Samoensis), Paetal, Cat. Conch. Sam. p. 108. 



Pupa nitens, Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1860, p. 459 Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel. 



vol. VI. p. 329. 

 Pupa hyalina, Zelebor, Pfeiffer. Mori. Hel. vol. VI. p. 329. 

 ? Vertigo nacca, Gould, Proc. Bost. Soc. 1862, p. 280. 



The few specimens received differ none from Tahitian and Cook's 

 Islands examples. 



At the latter location I found them in vast numbers on stony 

 ground in a grove near the seashore, but comparatively rare in 

 the mountain ravines. It occurs in more or less abundance at all 

 the Polynesian Islands, also at the Viti group, and perhaps ex- 

 tends further west. 



I obtained Mr. Pease's type specimens of nitens at Ebon, a low 

 coral island in the Caroline or Marshall group. When he de- 

 scribed that species he was not aware that Mr. Shuttleworth had 

 anticipated him in his pediculus^ described from Tahitian and 

 Marquesian examples. 



It is evident from Mr. Pease's remarks on page 463, Proceedings 

 of the Zoological Society for 1871, that he entertained doubts of 

 the specific weight of his nitens and Gould's nacca. 



Many years ago I collected a species of Vertigo near Hilo, 

 Hawaii, where Dr. Gould's types were obtained, and as near as I 

 can recollect they differed none from pediculus. 



The description of nacca is so brief and unsatisfactoiy that I 

 cannot decide with certainty, so have marked it doubtful. 



The following is Gould's diagnosis: 



"T. ovata, lucida, alabastrica, tennuissima, striata; aufr. 4 -f- 

 ventricosus apice ottuso ; sutura profunda ; apertura subcirculai is 

 dente palatali (interdum bifido) dente columellari, dente basaii 

 denteque labiali armata; peritremate valde reflexo ; umbilico ri- 

 mato. Axis j 1 ,,, diam. Jj, poll" (Gould). 



With respect to Zelebor's hyalina, which is elaborately de- 

 scribed, I do not hesitate to add it to the synonymy of pediculus. 



The variation of pediculus consists in the more or less oblong 

 form, distinctness of striation, more or less turgid whorls, com- 

 pression of the base, and size of the rim ate umbilicus. The 

 parietal lamina is usually double, though often single, or bifurcate, 

 and like the columellar tooth is constant. The palate is usually 

 furnished with three teeth, which may be considered the normal 

 number, though they frequently vary, and may be altogether 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



absent. Sometimes they are duplicated, or double, and more 

 rarely may be seen rudimentary or secondary denticles besides 

 the normal number. 



Tomatellina oblonga, Pease. 



Tomatellina oblonga, Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc. 18G4, p. 673 Pfeift'er, 



Mon. Hel. vol. VI. p. 264. 

 Tornatellina bacillaris, Monsson, Jour, de Conch. 1871, p. 16, pi. 3, 



fig. 5. 



A common species, ranging from the Marquesas and Paumotus 

 to the 8amoa Islands, and perhaps extends further west to the 

 Viti group. 



Prof. Monsson gives an accurate description of oblonga under 

 the name bacillaris, from Samoa examples collected by Dr. Graffe. 



They are found among dead wood and leaves, and sometimes on 

 the fronds of ferns. They range from near the seashore to 2000 

 or more feet above sea-level. 



Mr. Pease's type specimens were collected at the Society Islands. 



Tornatellina conica, Mousson. 



Tomatellina conica, Mousson, Jonr. de Conch. 1869, p. 342, pi. 14, fig. 



8; 1. c. 1870, p. 128 ; 1. c. 1871 (Var. impressa), p. 16. 

 Cionella (Leptinaria) conica, Paetel, Cat. Conch. Sam. p. 106. 

 Tomatellina oblonga, Pease (Part), Proc. Zool. Soc. 1864, p. 673. 



This species, which is not uncommon, ranges from the Marque- 

 sas to the Viti Islands, and was collected by Dr. Graffe on the 

 low coral islands of Ellice's group in central Polynesia. 



Mr. Pease received from me some of these shells intermixed 

 with oblonga, and supposing the two to be identical he included 

 them in his diagnosis of that species. Since then I have collected 

 thousands of specimens of both species at the various groups ; 

 and have hundreds now before me of all ages, and do not hesitate 

 to pronounce them quite distinct. The shell under consideration 

 I refer to Mousson's conica. His variety impressa is not un- 

 common in S. E. Polynesia. 



As compared with oblonga, it is lighter colored, more robust, 

 the spire more tapering, body whorl larger, and frequently with a 

 marked depression in the middle, which is sometimes slightly 

 concave. The parietal lamina is larger, and the columella more 

 tortuous. 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



Tornatellina Philippi Pfeiffer. 



TomatelUna Philippi, Pfeiffer, Zeitsch. Malak. 1849, p. 93 ; Mon. Hel. 



vol. III. p. 524. 

 Pupa Philippi, Kuster, pi. 18, fig. 20, 21. 

 Leptinaria Philippi, Ad., Gen. Mon. p. 141. 

 Achatina Philippi (Leptinaria), Pfr.,Vers. p. 110. 



There were several examples of this species among Mr. De 

 Gage's shells, which differed none from Tahitian specimens. It 

 also occurs at the Cook's and Marquesas Islands, though not 

 common at any of the above-mentioned locations. 



It may be readily distinguished by its swollen whorls, globose 

 body, large compressed parietal lamina, and somewhat tortuous 

 columella, which in j^oung examples is biplicate. 



Tornatellina simplex, Pease. 



Tornatellina simplex, Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1864, p. 673 Pfeiffer, 

 Mon. Hel. vol. VI. p. 266. 



Not uncommon at Rurutu, and we found it at the Marquesas, 

 Society, and very abundant at the Cook's Islands. 



It agrees precisely with Mr. Pease's description of simplex, 

 except having one more whorl, and all have the usual, though 

 smaller parietal lamina, which he must either have overlooked or 

 omitted to mention. I collected his type specimens at Tahaa, 

 one of the Society Islands, and am positive this is the shell I sent 

 him. At least I do not know of any species without the parietal 

 lamina. Moreover, this is the only umbilicated species he received 

 from me. 



Tornatellina nitida, Pease. 



Tornatellina nitida, Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1860, p. 439 Pfeiffer, Mon. 

 Hel. vol. VI. p. 264. 



This common species inhabits all the islands in southeastern 

 Polynesia, and extends its range through the small islands in cen- 

 tral Polynesia to the Caroline or Marshall's group, where I ob- 

 tained Mr. Pease's type specimens. 



His diagnosis not being very satisfactory, I subjoin the follow- 

 ing description: 



Shell small, imperforate, oblong, or elongate-conic, thin, smooth, 

 shining, transparent, brownish-horn color; spire more or less 

 elongate-conic, with sub-planulate outlines, and obtuse apex; 

 suture well defined, linear ; whorls 5-6, strongly convex, slowlj' 

 and regularly increasing, the last not descending in front, some- 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



times slightly flattened near the peristome; aperture oblique, 

 oblong, in adults about a third the length of the shell ; parietal 

 region with a thin, prominent lamina, which runs nearly parallel 

 wilh the suture; peristome straight, acute, with the margins re- 

 mote; columella tortuous, the lower margin armed with a thin, 

 acute, slightly oblique fold ; the palate frequently with one or two 

 spiral rows of small compressed denticles. 



Length 3, major diameter 1^ mill. 



A thin transparent species, with a more tapering spire than 

 oblonga, with the twisted columella of conica, but readily distin- 

 guished from either by the acute plication in the columella, which 

 can only be distinctly seen when looking obliquely into the aper- 

 ture. Owing to the transparency of the shell, the sutural line 

 appears to be narrow!}^ margined. The palatal denticles, though 

 sometimes wanting, were overlooked by Mr. Pease. 



It is worthy of remark that the above author in his list of Pau- 

 motus shells received from me, and published in the French 

 Journal of Conchology lor 1 811, refers the S. E. Polynesia spe- 

 cies to his nitida. 



Tornatellina affinis, ?p. nov. 



Shell small, imperforate, ovate-conic, thin, smooth, shining, 

 transparent, light brownish-horn color; spire oblong-conic, with 

 planulate outlines ; apex obtusely rounded ; suture narrowly mar- 

 gined ; whorls six, plano-convex, slowly and regularly increasing, 

 the last not deflected in front, rather large; aperture oblique, 

 irregularl}' abbreviate ovate, a little more than a third the length 

 of the shell; parietal wall with a strongly compressed prominent 

 lamina; peristome acute, straight, regularly curved, margins re- 

 mote; columella tortuous, not plicate or dentate. 



Length 2|, major diameter 1^ mill. 



This species, which we have ventured to record as new, is shaped 

 very much like Philippi, but the whorls of the spire are flattened, 

 and the bod}" is not so turgid as in that species. The columella 

 has the peculiar twist of conica, but our shell is smoother, more 

 shining, the spire more tapering, and the whorls much more 

 depressed. 

 Tornatellina micans, sp. nov. 



Shell small, imperforate, ovate-conic, transparent, thin, polished, 

 faintly striate under the lens, pale brownish-horn color; spire sub- 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



acute, oblong-conic, sides plamilate; suture distinctly and nar- 

 rowly marginate; whorls six, snb-planulate, slowly and regularly 

 increasing, the last rather large, not descending in front ; aperture 

 oblique, ovate-Innate, more than a third the length of the shell; 

 parietal wall with a prominent, strongly-compressed lamina ; pe- 

 ristome thin, simple, regularly curved ; columella slightly twisted, 

 depressed, armed with a sub-median, nearly horizontal, acute tooth- 

 like fold ; palate with numerous irregularly disposed denticles. 



Length 2j, major diameter H mill. 



The single example before me differs so much from any other 

 species, that, after some hesitation, I have concluded to describe 

 it as new. 



It is shaped almost precisely like ajffinis, but has the palatal 

 denticles, and acute, columeliar, tooth-like plait of nitida. 



Tornatellina perplexa, sp nov. 



Torndtellina bilamellata, Schmeltz (not Anton), Cat Mus. Godeff. No. 

 5, p. 90. 



Shell small, oblong-conic, imperforate, fragile, glossy, pellucid, 

 smooth, pale brownish-horn color; spire oblong-conic, with suh- 

 planulate outlines; apex obtusely rounded; suture distinctly 

 linear; whorls six, convex, moderately and regularly increasing, 

 the last eonvexly rounded, not deflected in front; aperture ob- 

 lique, ovate-lunate, about one-third the length of the shell ; peris- 

 tome thin, straight, regularly curved ; columella depressed, tor- 

 tuous, bi-dentate, the basal tooth small, the upper, which is sub- 

 medial, is large and prominent ; parietal region with a large, 

 prominent, curved lamina ; palate garnished with more or less 

 numerous irregularly disposed denticles. 



Length 2, major diameter 1 mill. 



Mr. De Gage sent a number of these shells of all ages, and I have 

 myself collected Uie same species at the Cook's and Society 

 Islands. 



Its close resemblance to nitida has perplexed me so much that 

 I have long hesitated about the propriety of separating the two 

 as distinct. 



It may, however, be distinguished from that species by its more 

 dilated and Indent ate columella. The upper tooth is also larger, 

 and less acute than in nitida. Some examples have the palatal 

 denticles mounted on delicate, longitudinal lines of callus. Others 




1870.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



have the internal teeth so distinct as to give the aperture a rin- 

 gent appearance. 



Cook's Island examples sent to the Museum Godeffroyanum 

 were erroneously referred to Anton's bilamellata, a species twice 

 the size of this. 



Tornatellina serrata, Pease. 



Lnmellina serrata, Pease, Proc. Zon]. Soe. 1860, p. 439. 

 Tornatellina serrata, Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel. vol. VI. p. 265. 

 Lnmellina Icevta, Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc 1864, p. 672. 

 Tornatellina lavis, Pfeiffer, Mon. Hel. vol. VI. p. 266. 



This species has the same extensive range through Polynesia 

 as nitida. Many years ago I found the same, or a closely allied 

 species on low bushes near the seashore at Guam. 



They, like nearly all the species, are usually found adhering to 

 the under surface of loose stones, dead wood, among decayed 

 leaves, and sometimes on the leaves of low bushes. 



I obtained Mi 1 . Pease's type examples of serrata at Ebon, in 

 Micronesia; and his laevis at Huahine and Tahiti. Mr. Cuming, 

 who received specimens of both specie's, considered them identical. 



After a careful examination of a large number of all ages from 

 the different groups of islands, I find the palatal lamina much 

 more frequently serrated than smooth. They are, in fact, all 

 smooth at certain periods of their growth. 



The description of serrata is somewhat obscure ; that of laevis 

 is more accurate. 



It cannot well be confounded with any other Polynesian spe- 

 cies ; its ovate-conic form, swollen whorls, deep suture, acute 

 columellar tooth, and, more particularly, the remote longitudinal, 

 prominent, smooth, or serrated palatal laminae will readily distin- 

 guish it from an}' other. 



The last character induced Mr. Pease to establish his genus 

 Lamellina. In his list of Polynesian land shells published in the 

 Proceedings of the Zoological Society for 1ST 1 , lie records only 

 two species, his serrata and Isevis, while he overlooked the same, 

 but less conspicuous character in Hidalgoi, Crosse, inhabiting the 

 Gambier Islands. The accurate figure of that species in the 

 Journal de Conchyliologie for 1865, exhibits a small bidentate 

 lamina. Specimens from the same locality, now before me, either 

 possess the same feature, or have simply from one to two spiral 

 rows of denticles in the palate. 

 3 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879- 



Petit's globosa, from Rapa or Opara is described as having two 

 obsolete plicae in the palate. In micans, perplexa, and nitida we 

 find short plicae or denticles, and frequently rudimentary longitu- 

 dinal lamina. Some specimens of nitida have the latter character 

 as strongly developed as mserrata. Prof. Mousson has described 

 a Viti species under the name of cohnnellaris, which is either the 

 same or very closely allied to nitida, and possesses denticles in 

 the palate. 



If the genus Lameltina is accepted, it should be modified so as 

 to include all the species with either denticles, plicae, or laminae in 

 the palate, though the character on which the genus is based is 

 not, in my opinion, of sufficient importance to rank as generic. 



There are several other species described, from other parts of 

 the world, which possess the same characters. 



Succinea De Gagei, sp. nov. 



Shell ovate, pale to dark-amber color, or ferruginous, thin, fra- 

 gile, pellucid, scarcely shining, more or less rugose with lines of 

 growth ; spire moderately produced, sub-acute, less than a third 

 the length of the shell; whorls 3-3^, convexly rounded, the last 

 large, obliquely produced ; aperture sub-vertical, large, regularly 

 ovate, acute above, sides nearly equally curved, rounded below ; 

 columella thin, gently arched ; peristome acute, regularly curved. 



Length 11, major diameter 7 mill. 



Mr. De Gage sent about 100 examples of all ages: it is the 

 first species recorded from the Austral Islands. 



It is closely allied to Gould's pudo?-ina,a. Tahitian species, but 

 is smaller, less elongate, and the spire is less produced. 



Melampus violus, Lesson. 



Auricula viola, Lesson, Voy. Coquille, p. 342. 



Melampus eaffer, Var. B., Pfeiffer, Mon. Auric, p. 40. 



Melampus viola, Pfeiffer, Mon. Auric, p. 58. 



Melampus eaffer, Pease (not of Kuster), Jour, de Conch. 1871, p. 93 



Schmeltz, Cat. Mns. Godeff. n. 5, p. 88. 

 Melampus violus, Pease, Proc. Zool. ISoc. 1871, p. 477. 



The Rurutu shells received differ none from those I collected at 

 the Paumotus and Society Islands. 



From the above synonymy and references it will be seen that 

 there is some confusion in respect to the interpretation of Lesson's 

 species, which he obtained at Borabora, one of the Society Islands. 



There are only five species of Melampus inhabiting that group, 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



and they are common to all the islands. Of these, .striata, as far 

 as known, has not been discovered elsewhere ; while of the remain- 

 ing four species, luteins and fasciatus are very widely diffused 

 through Polynesia, Melanesia, and the Indian Seas. M. Philippi 

 seems to be confined to southeastern Polynesia. All the above- 

 mentioned four species are correctly determined. We now have 

 only the species under consideration to identify. 



In 1871, Mr. Pease published in the French Journal of Con- 

 chology a list of Anaa (Paumotus Isl.) land shells, collected by 

 me in 1865, and recorded this species as caffer, Kiist. Adopting 

 his view I distributed the shells to my correspondents, under that 

 name. 



The same year he published his list of Polynesian land shells 

 in the Proceedings of the Zoological Society, and excluded caffer, 

 but recorded violus from Borabora. 



Dr. Pfeiffer's cafe?; var. 8, which Mr. Cuming collected at Ru- 

 rutu, is undoubtedly the same as our shell. 



It is a very common species, and is confined to the Paumotus, 

 Society, and the Austral Islands. Its limited range also proves 

 its distinctness from coffer, which is recorded as a south African 

 and Philippine species. 



In shape, it resembles fasciata, and the last whorl is sub-angu-. 

 late above. The spire is convexly conoid, mucronate, and nearly 

 one-third the length of the shell ; the upper whorls usually have 

 a few faint radiating incised lines. The well-impressed suture is 

 more or less lacerated by large wrinkles of growth on the last 

 whorl. The base is sub-rim ate, and sometimes decussated with a 

 few faintly-defined impressed stria?. Parietal region with two, 

 sometimes three plicae on the basal half, and the brownish-violet 

 columella has a rather small oblique fold. The inner margin of 

 the peristome is always deep chestnut-brown, approaching black, 

 and the palate has 4-6 bluish-white plica?. 



Living shells are uniform fuscous ; frequently the belly or front 

 of the last whorl is brownish-yellow, with a transverse fuscous 

 band just beneath the middle. Sometimes, though more frequently 

 in immature examples, the ground-color is brownish-yellow, with 

 the spire and upper portion of the last whorl, together with a 

 sub-basal band, fuscous. 



Length 12, major diameter 7 mill. 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



Melampus luteus, Quoy et Gaimnrd. 



Auricula lutea, Q. et G., Voy. Astrol. vol. II. p. 1G3, pi. 13, fig. 2.">-27. 

 Melampus luteus, Pfeiffer, Mon. Auric, p. 36. 

 Conovulus luteus, Anton., Verz. p. 48. 



This species is abundant at all the Polynesian Islands, except 

 the Sandwich and Marquesas groups. 



The only variation is in size, and depth of color ; it is never 

 handed. This, and the preceding species, are found just above 

 high-water mark. 



Omphalotropis curta, sp nov. 



Shell small, rim ate, abbreviately ovate, solid, faintly striate, 

 cinereous under a thin yellowish-olive epidermis; spire obtuse, 

 short, convexly-conical, more or less decorticated ; suture deeply 

 impressed ; whorls five, convex, the last very large, rounded, 

 nearly half the length of the shell, the periphery with a stout 

 rounded keel; basal carination large; aperture nearly vertical, 

 roundly-ovate, whitish or reddish \ellow ; peristome rather thick, 

 straight, and continuous. 



Length 5, major diameter 3 V mill. 



Quite distinct from any other Polynesian species, and may be 

 readily distinguished by its short stout slmpe, and large rounded 

 keel. 



Chondrella striata, Pease. 



Ghondrella striata, Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1871, p. 477. 

 Ilydrocena striata, Schmeltz, Cat. Mus. Godeff. No. 5, p. 100. 



Mr. De Gage sent several examples of this species, which dif- 

 fered none from Cook's and Society Islands specimens. 



They inhabit dry localities in forests, and are found adhering to 

 rocks, dead wood, and the under surface of loose stones. 



They vary slightly in size, height of spire, distinctness and size 

 of the spiral, raised lines, which in some examples are obsolete. 

 The color is usually reddish-brown, sometimes ruddy corneous, 

 rarely pale j'ellow. 



The genus Chondrella was established by Mr. Pease in 1871, the 

 tj'pe of which is his Gyclostomaparcum. In his list of Polynesian 

 land shells he records three species, his parva, striata, and mina- 

 tissivia, Sowb. The last inhabits Pitcairn Island. Hydrocena 

 insularis, Crosse, from the Gambier Islands, which Mr. Pease re- 

 ferred to his sub-genus Atropis, is a Chondrella, closely allied to 

 parva, or, more correctly, intermediate between the latter and 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHJ LADELPHIA. 29 



striata. Cyclosloma exigua, Homb., also from the Gamblers, 

 probably belongs to the same genus. 



Mr. Pease, in his description of the genus, remarks, from obser- 

 vations made by me that the animal was destitute of tentacles. 

 Since the above was published, I have verified my former obser- 

 vations by a careful study of many examples of both striata and 

 parva. 



The animal is translucent, and, excepting the large conspicuous 

 black eyes, is colorless in both species. The foot is small, oblong, 

 rounded behind, and during locomotion is nearly or quite concealed 

 by the shell, which is carried diagonally. The head, which is en- 

 tirely destitute of tentacles, is produced into a short blunt muzzle, 

 which sometimes assumes a slightly bi-lobed appearance. When 

 creeping, only the extreme tip of the muzzle is seen from above, 

 while the conspicuous eyes are plainly visible through the trans- 

 parent shell. 



Helicina minuta, Sowerby. 



Helicina minuta, Sowerby, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1842, p. 7; Thes. p. 13, 

 pi. 1, fig. 40-41. 



This small species is very abundant, and agrees in every respect 

 with Tahiti and Moorea examples. It is not found on any of the 

 other islands of the Society group, though several species inhabit- 

 ing the other islands are usually confounded with minuta, one of 

 which is described by Dr. Pfeiffer under that name. 



Sowerby's type specimens were collected at Rurutu by Mr. 

 Cuming. His diagnosis, though very brief, accords well with the 

 shells before me. The size he gives is also precisely the same. 

 The shell described by Pfeitfer, which is larger, is, as near as I 

 can determine, one of Mr. Pease's unpublished species, which in- 

 habits Raiatea. 



Assiminea nitida, Pease. 



Mydroeena nitida, Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1864, p. 674. 

 Hydrocena parvulu, Mousson, Jour, de Conch. 1865, p. 184. 

 Assiminea nitida, Pease, Jour, de Conch. 1869, p. 165, pi. 8, fig. 11. 

 Assiminea lucida, Pease, Jour, de Conch. 1869, p. 166, pi. 8, fig. 10. 

 Omphalotropis parvula, Paetel, Cat. Conch. Sara. p. 124. 

 Hydrocena similis, Baird, Brenchly's Cruise of the Curacoa. 



This small species ranges from the Marquesas and Paumotus 

 to the Yiti Islands. 




30 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



They are found under dead wood, among decayed leaves, and 

 range from near the seashore to about 2000 feet above sea-level. 



The only variation is in size, more or less produced spire, and 

 color, which varies from a light to dark corneous, rarely brownish, 

 with faint indication of a band on the body whorl. 



I obtained Mr. Pease's type specimens of lucida in beach sand 

 at Anaa, one of the Paumotus Islands. They were worn, and 

 discolored by salt water. Living shells, which I subsequently 

 found at the same locality, differed none from nitidu. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF GONIOBRANCHUS. 

 BY ANDREW GARRETT. 



Goniobranchus albopunctatus, Garr. 



Animal elongate-oval, depressed, the two ends equally rounded, 

 a little the widest at the middle, and, when in motion, it becomes 

 more elongate, and the sides nearly parallel. The dorsal region 

 is depressl}' convex, smooth, and the margins of mantle thin. The 

 upper surface is bright orange-}'ellow, with crowded opaque white 

 dots, and minute annulas; the mantle with a band of small irregu- 

 lar lemon-yellow spots near the margin, which latter is edged with 

 violaceous. 



The dorsal tentacles, which issue from simple orifices, are elon- 

 gate ovate, sub-mucronate, somewhat trigonal, purple-brown, pro- 

 fusely dotted with opaque white, and marked with two vertical 

 lines of the latter color. 



The branchial plumes are rather large, twelve in number, con- 

 nate at their base, decreasing in size posteriori y, and encircling 

 the prominent anal tube; they are colored and dotted similar to 

 the tentacles, and each ornamented with two longitudinal white 

 lines. 



The under surface of the mantle and foot are pale lemon-yellow, 

 the former margined the same as above. 



The head is small, and furnished with moderate, obtuse, cylin- 

 drical tapering labial appendages. 



The foot is elongate, narrow, obtusely rounded in front, sides 

 parallel, rounded behind, and, when in motion, extends consider- 

 ably behind the mantle. 



Length, 62 ; diameter, 20 millimetres. 



Bab. Huahine, Society Islands. 



A very rare species found on weedy bottom in the upper region 

 of the laminarian zone, and is the only example which has occur- 

 red to my notice during ten years collecting in the group. 




32 proceedings of the academy of [1879. 



February 4. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in tlie cln.ir. 

 One hundred and nine persons present. 



Fossil Remains of a Caribou. Prof. Leidy directed attention 

 to several fossil specimens which he had received for determina- 

 tion from Prof. F. M. Witter, of Muscatine, Iowa. They were 

 found together, with others apparently of the same animal, ill the 

 Loess on which the city of Muscatine is built. 



Two of the fossils consist of fragments of the left side of the 

 upper and lower jaws, retaining most of the molar teeth in good 

 condition. Another specimen is an uncharacteristic bone frag- 

 ment. Other bones were too much decomposed for preservation. 



The specimens with teeth indicate a species of deer, of an indi- 

 vidual past maturity, as the crowns of the teeth are half worn 

 away, exhibiting broad, comparatively flat surfaces. The charac- 

 ter of the fossils appeared unfamiliar, and at first were suspected 

 to have pertained to an extinct and undescribed species. The 

 proportionately large size of the premolars, in comparison with 

 those of ordinary forms of deer, appeared as a distinctive feature. 



Observing that the fossils were larger than the corresponding 

 parts of the barren ground caribou, Bangifer groenlandicus, it 

 was suspected that they may have pertained to the woodland 

 caribou, Bangifer caribou. In this view, not having the latter 

 for comparison, the specimen of the upper jaw with the teeth was 

 sent to Dr. Elliott Cones, of Washington, with the request that 

 he should compare it with specimens of the woodland caribou in 

 the collection of the Smithsonian Institution. 



Dr. Cones reports that the fossil was carefully compared with 

 numerous specimens of caribou, and he adds : "I think you may 

 safely announce Bangifer caribou from the Loess of Iowa." He 

 further remarks, that "the specimen is more worn as to the teeth 

 than any I find to compare with it, being ground away so that 

 almost the broadest looking set of surfaces presents. Making 

 due allowance for this, I find nothing incompatible with the spe- 

 cific characters of the living woodland caribou. The lengths of 

 the whole molar series, as well as of the premolars and molars, 

 are substantially identical ; bend of the series and set of the teeth 

 also the same." 



Comparative measurements of the upper molar series of the 

 fossil caribou, with the corresponding series of a woodland cari- 

 bou from Fort Anderson, given by Dr. Coues, are as follows: 



Rangifer caribou. Fossil. Recent. 



Length of space occupied by the upper six molars, 98.5 mm. 98.5 mm. 



" " " " " three true molars, 53 " 53 " 



" " " " " three premolars, 50 " 46.5 " 




1870.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



The fossil remains of the deer, at first supposed to belong to an 

 extinct species, for which the name of Gervus muscalinensis was 

 suggested, were discovered in grading a street in the city of Mus- 

 catine. From the Loess of the same locality Prof. Witter has 

 collected the following fossil shells: Helix striate.Ua, H.fuloa, H. 

 pulchella, H. lineata, Pupa muscorum, P. blandi, P. simplex, 

 Sucoinea obliqua, S. acara, Limned humilis? and Helicina, 

 occulta. 



February 11. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-one persons present. 



Natives of Hotel Tobago. The President rend the following 

 extract from a letter by Dr. Charles A. Siegfried, U. S. N , 

 dated December 20, 1878: "We visited an island called Botel 

 Tobago, while surveying a rock, 80 miles east of South Cape of 

 Formosa. We found a race of aborigines, probably from Malay 

 stock. They knew nothing of money, rum, or tobacco. They 

 gave us goats and pigs for tin pots and brass buttons, and would 

 hang around us all day in their canoes, waiting for a chance to 

 dive for something thrown overboard. They wore clouts only; 

 ate taro and yams mainly, though they have pigs, goats, chickens, 

 and fish, and cocoanuts also. Snakes abound, of the boa variety 

 I judge. Their thatch houses are low, with much overhang of the 

 roof, surrounded by stone walls, strongly made of laid stone to 

 protect them from monsoons. Their paddy fields contain im- 

 mense quantities of taro, Golocasia aroidea my botany says. 

 They are peaceful and timid, do not mark the body or deform the 

 face or teeth, and seem happy enough in their condition. I found 

 them fairly healthy. They had axes, spears, and knives, but all 

 of common iron, the axe being made by imbedding the handle 

 instead of the handle piercing the iron, as with us. Their 

 canoes are beautiful, made without nails, and are ornamented 

 usually with geometrical lines. The hair is worn naturally, the 

 men partly clipping theirs. I saw no valuable metal. They wore 

 the beards of goats, with small shells, as neck ornaments." 



'Cutting or Parasol Ant, Atta fervens, Say The Rev. H. C. 

 McCook stated that he had in course of preparation a detailed 

 account of the architecture and habits of the Cutting Ant of 

 Texas. The observations, of which he proceeded to give an ab- 

 stract, were made during an encampment for purposes of study, 

 south of Austin, Texas. 



1. Exterior Architecture. Two forms were noted. The first, 

 seen at a point distinguished as Camp Wright, was that of a 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



mound, 21 feet long, and about 4 feet high, which had been accu- 

 mulated around the trunk of a double live-oak tree, Quercus 

 virens, which stood on the side of a road. The second form was 

 located at a point distinguished as Camp Jeanes. It was on a 

 high, flat, upland prairie, and was a bed of denuded earth, in the 

 midst of the grassy open, 8 feet 9 inches long, and 7 feet, more 

 or less, across. Over this denuded surface were scattered between 

 twenty and thirty circular, semicircular, and S-shaped elevations 

 of fresh earth-pellets. The circular moundlets had the appear- 

 ance of an American spittoon, the resemblance being stronger by 

 reason of a round open entrance or gallery door in the centre. All 

 had apparently been naturally formed by the gradual accumula- 

 tion of the pellets of sandy soil, as they were brought out, and 

 dumped upon the circumference of the heap. The moundlets were 

 massed at the base, and gradually sloped off towards the top. 

 They were from 3 to 4 inches high. This "bed" (as the natives 

 call it) was quite free from grass, as was also the mound at Camp 

 Wright. Another nest of the same character was found at Camp 

 Jeanes ; this was situated in a grove, but was fully exposed to 

 the sun. A fourth nest was found about a mile distant from this 

 spot, of the same character. This is, therefore, probably the 

 normal form of the external architecture of the formicary, the 

 mound at Camp Wright being probably formed b3 r accumulations 

 around the tree, caused by the bordering road, which restricted 

 the limits of the gates, and so threw the separate moundlets back 

 upon each other. 



2. Gates or Doors. His first view of the mound at Camp 

 Wright led him to fear that he had made a mistake, and pitched 

 his ('amp near an abandoned nest. There was not a sign of life. 

 The mound was covered over with earthen knobs or warts of 

 various sizes, but the action of a recent shower upon the black 

 soil gave the hill the appearance of an old one. Here and there 

 were scattered over the surface small irregular heaps of dry leaves, 

 bits of leaves, and twigs. Otherwise, the mound seemed lifeless, 

 deserted. As the evening began to fall the scene was wholly 

 changed. Hosts of ants, of various sizes, and in countless num- 

 bers, were hurrying out of open gates into the neighboring 

 jungle, and two long double columns were stretched from the 

 bottom to the top of the large overhanging live oak. The ants 

 in the descending columns all carried above their heads portions 

 of green leaves, which waved to and fro and glanced in the lantern 

 light, giving to the moving column a weird look, as it moved 

 along. It seemed like a procession of Lilliputian Sabbath-school 

 children bearing aloft their banners. It is this habit which has 

 given this insect in some quarters the popular name of the 

 "Parasol Ant." It is also called in Texas the "Brazilian Ant," 

 but is quite universally known as the " Cutting Ant," certainly a 

 most appropriate name. 



The opening and closing of the gates occurs before and after 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



every exit from the nest. The process is a long, careful, and 

 complicated one, and was studied folly'. Towards evening the 

 gates are gradually thrown open, and so remain until morning, 

 when they are gradually closed, the process continuing in some 

 cases until 10^ A. M. The closing is done by carrying into the 

 gallery bits of dry twigs of various lengths, some as long as H 

 inch, dry leaves, and other refuse. A number of closed gates 

 were opened to note the depth to which this refuse was placed. 

 It varied from one-half inch to an inch and a half from the sur- 

 face. In some cases the gallery had been sealed up with sand 

 pellets below the refuse. The galleries quite often slant inward 

 from the gate, and at as great an angle as 45. They also some- 

 times divide a short distance from the surface. These conforma- 

 tions allow more readily the process of closing. In carrying in 

 the refuse the larger forms of the ant are engaged ; as the hole 

 gradually closes, only the very smallest appear. The last touches 

 are carefully and delicately made by the minims, who, in small 

 squads, fill in the remaining interstices with minute grains of sand, 

 and finally, the last laborer steals in behind some bit of leaf, and 

 the gate is closed. It then presents to the causual observer the 

 appearance above described of a little heap of dry chips acci- 

 dentally accumulated upon the mound. The galleries at Camp 

 Jeanes were closed in the same manner. 



When the gates are opened at dusk, this process is reversed. 

 The minims first appear, deporting from the heap particles of 

 sand. Larger forms follow, carrying away bits of refuse, winch 

 they drop a couple of inches more or less from the gate. This is 

 a slow process, and apparently little is accomplished for a long 

 time. But evidently the whole mass of refuse is thus loosened. 

 Then comes the final burst, with soldiers, majors, and minors in < 

 the lead, who rush out bearing up before them the rubbish, which 

 flies here and there, and in a few moments is cleared away from 

 the gallery, and spread around the margin of the gate. These 

 chips are evidently gathered together for this purpose, and are 

 among the " treasures" of the ants, being kept near by for this 

 use. The pieces were easily identified as being thus used several 

 days in succession. 



The above observation points out at least the use found for the 

 extremely small forms peculiar to this species. At least ten dis- 

 tinct castes (forms or sizes) were exhibited to the Academy. 

 They vary as follows, the measurements being in sixteenths of an 

 inch, viz., ?, 14 ; % , 11 ; soldier 7 ; worker major 6 ; minor 5 ; and 

 the remaining castes in the proportion, 3|, 3, 2^, 2, 1^, 1. A 

 more careful comparison may possiblj- reduce this series one or 

 two. But the result, as above, will probably stand. 



The gates first opened are the first closed, and those last opened 

 are the last closed. 



3. Leaf -cutting Habit. The whole process of cutting and car- 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



rying leaves from trees and shrubs was observed at Camp Wright, 

 and at a vegetable garden near Austin. In order better to see 

 the mode of cutting, small tender branches of live-oak were 

 thrust into the mound near the gates. These were soon covered 

 with ants, and as the lantern could thus be used convenient!}', the 

 operations of the cutters were completely in view. The cutter 

 grasps the leaf with outspread feet, and makes an incision at the 

 edge by a scissors-like motion of her sickle-shaped toothed 

 mandibles. She gradually revolves, steadily cutting as she does 

 so, her mandibles thus describing a circle, or the greater portion 

 thereof. The feet turn with the head. The cut is a clean one, 

 quite through the leaf. The cutter will sometimes drop with the 

 excision to the ground, sometimes retire when the section has 

 dropped, sometimes (it is inferred) seize the section and carry it 

 down the tree. A division of labor was apparent. At the foot 

 of one tree was a pile of cut leaves, to which clippings were con- 

 tinually being added by droppings from above. Carriers on the 

 ground took these up, and bore them to the nest. The loading 

 of the cuttings is thus : the piece is seized by the curved mandi- 

 bles, the head is elevated, the piece is thrown back by a quick 

 motion, seeming to lie lodged on its edge within the deep furrow 

 that runs along the entire medial line of the head (except the 

 elypeus), and supported between prominent spines on the e(\ge of 

 this furrow and on the prothorax. The furrow and spines thus 

 appear to serve a very useful end. The cutting and carrying were 

 not done (so far as noted) by the smaller castes. The soldiers 

 rarely engaged in this work, but were seen to precede the excur- 

 sion columns as they moved out and up the tree, and afterward 

 to return, as though engaged as scouts or pioneers. 



The principal leaves gathered at Camp Wright were those of 

 the live-oak. The young saplings in the neighborhood of the 

 mound were in great part or entirely defoliated. The great tree 

 above was in parts stripped to the very top. So also was some 

 wild vine unknown to him. In beginning work the cutters, seem 

 to aim first at the topmost leaves. A nest on the grounds of an 

 intelligent nurseryman and gardener near Austin was visited, and 

 from the proprietor many facts were learned. Ants were here 

 seen at work late in the afternoon. They had come up through 

 the garden from the formicary, three hundred feet distant. They 

 prefer trees with a smooth leaf; are severe upon grapes, peaches, 

 the China tree, radishes; take celery, beets, young corn and 

 wheat, plum, pomegranate, honeysuckle, cape jessamime, crape 

 myrtle, althea. They do not like lettuce, won't take the paper 

 mulberry, nor figs and cedar, except the bud ends in the scant 

 days of winter. They love sugar, grain, and tobacco ! This pro- 

 prietor assured Mr. McCook that the ants made foraging excur- 

 sions into his house, entered his desk-drawers, and carried away 

 a portion of his chewing tobacco before he discovered the rob- 




18*79.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



bery. He had to be very careful thereafter where he deposited 

 the delectable weed. Mr. McCook saw at another plantation an 

 immense column engaged in plundering a granary of wheat, which 

 was being carried away to the nest. 



4. Interior Architecture. The use of this leaf material, in part 

 at least, was unfolded when the work of excavation began. Two 

 trenches were made, one ten feet long, five feet deep, and a second 

 at right angles to it, and wide enough to allow free entrance and 

 study. The number of insects that swarmed to the defence of 

 their home is simply amazing. They were, however, not so diffi- 

 cult to manage as sometimes when disturbed at their night work, 

 as the swift use of the spade by the assistants and the general 

 convulsion of their emmet world quite dazed most of them. 

 However, when the speaker himself entered the trend) to work 

 with trowel, knife, rule, etc., the ants rallied, and attacked so 

 fiercely that the men were compelled to brush them off. The 

 wound inflicted by them was sharp, but nothing to compare with 

 the severe sting of the agricultural ant. The interior of the for- 

 micary may be briefly described as an irregular arrangement of 

 caverns communicating with the surface and with each other by 

 tubular galleries. These caverns or pockets were of various sizes, 

 2 feet 10 inches long and less, and 12 inches deep and 8 inches 

 high and less. Within these chambers w r ere masses of a very 

 light, delicate leaf-paper wrought into what may properly be 

 called " combs." Some of the masses were in a single hemisphere, 

 filling the central part of the cave, others were arranged in colum- 

 nar masses 2\ inches high, in contact along the floor. Some of 

 these columns hung, like a rude honey-comb or wasp nest, from 

 roots which interlaced the chamber. The material was in some 

 cases of a gray tint, in others of a leaf-brown. It was all evi- 

 dently composed of the fibre of leaves which had been reduced to 

 this form within the nest, probably by the joint action of the man- 

 dibles and salivary glands. On examination they proved to be 

 composed of cells of various sizes, irregular in shape, but main- 

 taining pretty constantly the hexagon. Some of the cells were 

 one-half inch in diameter, many one-fourth inch, most of them 

 one-eighth inch, and quite minute. Large circular openings ran 

 into the heart of the mass. Some of the cells were one inch deep ; 

 they usually narrowed into a funnel-like cylinder. Ants in great 

 number, chiefly of the small castes, were found within these cells. 

 In the first large cave opened were also great numbers of larva?. 

 The material was so fragile that it crumbled under even delicate 

 handling, but a few specimens of parts of the ant comb, with 

 entire cells, were preserved and exhibited. Reference was made 

 to the late Mr. Bell's opinion that these leaf paper masses were 

 used as a sort of u mushroom garden," a minute fungus being 

 purposely cultivated upon them, which the ants used for food. 

 Mr. McCook's specimens, when submitted to the microscope, did 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



indeed show the appearance of such growth, which, however, is 

 only what might have been expected under such environment. 

 The belief was expressed that the ants fed upon the juices of the 

 leaves. But (if investigations in progress shall succeed) it was 

 hoped that the subject of the true food of the cutting ant would 

 be hereafter solved. 



5. Tunnelled Track*. The ability of these emmet masons to 

 excavate vast halls and subterranean avenues is remarkable. 

 Several holes in the vicinity of Austin were visited, out of which 

 "beds" or nests of ants had been dug, by an old man who used 

 to follow the business of ant killing. These holes were nearly as 

 large as the cellar for a small house. One such excavation, about 

 three miles from Austin, was 12 feet in diameter and 15 feet deep. 

 At the lowest point had been found the main cavity, quite as 

 large as a flour barrel, in which were found many winged insects, 

 males and females, and quantities of larvae. This nest was situ- 

 ated 669 feet from a tree that stood in the front yard of a house 

 which the ants had stripped. Mr. McCook took the range of the 

 underground way traversed by the ants to reach this point, from 

 which an accurate route was constructed and exhibited. The 

 course varied very little from a direct line. Two branch tunnels 

 were made to a peach orchard 120 feet distant. Reference was 

 made to a paper by Dr. Lincecum in the Proceedings of the 

 Academy, which gave an account of the tunnelling of a stream 

 by these ants. There is nothing improbable in this, as the tunnel 

 above referred to went down in places as deep as 6 feet, the aver- 

 age, however, being about 18 inches. At the exit hole the tunnel 

 was 2 feet from the surface. The digging operations were de- 

 scribed, in which the small forms alone seemed to take part. The 

 large forms would therefore appear to assist in opening the gates, 

 make the excursions, and do the cutting; the small forms to do 

 the digging, or at least the carrying out of excavated earth, while 

 the minims, or least forms, assist in opening and closing doors 

 and keeping charge of the larvae. The minims are quite ferocious 

 in attack, and gallantly support the large headed soldiers. 



6. Origin of Cades by Evolution. This wide differentiation of 

 form among the insects of one species and nest is one of the most 

 serious special difficulties which the English evolution hypothesis 

 has encountered. Dr. Darwin, with that candor wdiich always 

 wins him the respect and confidence of all sincere minded oppo- 

 nents, fully admits this, and endeavors at some length to meet it. 

 The knot of the difficulty lies in the 'fact that the worker castes 

 are sterile, and are produced from eggs laid at different periods 

 by the female. Supposing therefore that profitable or other modi- 

 fications had occurred in the workers, how, on the principle of 

 natural selection and hereditary transmission could these operate 

 upon such workers? All modifications of structure must be 

 wrought and transmitted through the female alone, effecting thus 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



the worker-life enwrapped in the egg. But it appears quite im- 

 possible to comprehend how any structural modifications could 

 act from the worker upon the queen in order to thus react upon a 

 succeeding generation of workers. The illustrations which Dr. 

 Darwin cites, 1 the variation of domestic cattle by interbreeding, 

 and M. Verlot's experiments with certain double annual flowers, 

 if admitted to throw some light upon the inquiry, yet require an 

 efficient superintending human intelligence, which cannot be sup- 

 posed to have its analogue in the perpetuation and development of 

 ant forms, unless, indeed, we may believe that the evolution 

 hypothesis implies and requires the interposition of a Personal 

 Intelligence infinitely superior to that of both ant and man. 



The precise sense in which the workers may be called " sterile" 

 admits of some question. Sir John Lubbock has recently shown 

 that parthenogenetic eggs are sometimes produced by worker-ants 

 in artificial formicaries, from which males alone are hatched. This 

 is according to the analogy of other Hymenopters, as for example, 

 bees and wasps. Here, then, there may be possible escape from 

 Dr. Darwin's difficulty more satisfactory than that which he him- 

 self suggests; for it is conceivable that an opportunity might thus 

 be opened for the transmission of a profitable variation which 

 might arise in a worker. Still, the difficulty appears impassable. 

 One must suppose the growth and maturity of one such parthe- 

 nogenetic male, produced from a worker with such useful modifi- 

 cation, to have been contemporaneous with the maturity of the 

 females of a "swarm;" this male, together with the males hatched 

 directly from eggs laid by the queen shall have gone forth, as is 



the habit of ants, in the regular marriage flight, or ''swarming 



> 



and therein shall have met a virgin queen. As the modification 

 thus supposed to be transmitted, must, on the hypothesis, be very 

 minute, it could have been saved from obliteration, only by sup- 

 posing it fortified by the recurrence of other contingencies of like 

 character in succeeding generations. Mr. McCook therefore con- 

 cluded that the development by natural selection, according to 

 Dr. Darwin's hypothesis, of so many and widely varied forms as 

 exist in the cutting ant, requires a series of contingencies so 

 multiplied and remote as to forbid a reasonable hope of its prob- 

 able occurrence, even with the additional favoring circumstance 

 of occasional males parthenogenetically produced. 



He added that some of the points which Dr. Darwin had 

 raised as to the structure of the driver ant of Africa were being 

 carefully examined by him in the case of Atla fervens, with the 

 best microscopic helps at his command. Thus far, however, after 

 a quite careful examination, nothing that can suggest the idea of 

 an interblending of the castes by rudimentary forms had been dis- 

 covered. The lowest castes of minims, in all specimens examined, 

 with special reference to the mouth organs and eyes, showed the 



1 Origin of Species, p. 227. 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1819. 



same structure, in equal definiteness and perfection, as Hie larger 

 castes. Allusion was also made to the ravages of these destructive 

 insects, and some of the modes for exterminating them were ex 

 plained. 



February 18. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirty persons present. 



A paper entitled " On the Structure of the Chimpanzee," by H. 

 C. Chapman, M. D., was presented for publication. 



On Bothriocephalus lotus. Prof. Leidy exhibited specimens 

 of a tape worm, which had been submitted to him for determina- 

 tion b}' Dr. John T. Walker. The specimens consist of about a 

 dozen portions of what appear to have been four or five individu- 

 als, all of them unfortunately without the head. They were dis- 

 charged by a man, aged 28 years, formerly a farmer, a native of 

 Sweden, who came to this country about three months since. At 

 irregular intervals during the last five years the patient passed 

 fragments, of a few inches, of the worm. According to Dr. 

 Walker, the collective measurements of the specimens presented 

 he had estimated to be upwards of 100 feet. In their contracted 

 condition, as preserved in alcohol, none of the mature segments 

 measured over 4 mm. in length by 10 mm. in breadth. These are 

 quite characteristic of Bothriocephalus lotus. The egg pouches 

 of the uterus centrally situated are rendered distinct from the 

 ripe eggs which give to them a chocolate-brown appearance. The 

 genital apertures are in the median line, nearer the anterior bor- 

 der of the segments. Jn Taenia, the genital apertures are at the 

 lateral margin of the segments. 



The specimens were regarded as of special interest from the cir- 

 cumstance that they were the first of the Bothriocephalus lotus, 

 that Prof. L. had had the opportunity of seeing from a person 

 living in our country. 



February 25. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-seven persons present. 



Asphalt urn and Amber from Vincenttown, N. J. Mr. E. Gold- 

 smith remarked that he had received from Col. T. M. Bryan a 

 specimen of asphaltum, a mass of which, weighing about a hun- 

 dred pounds, had been found in the ash marl, a layer above the 

 green sand proper, about 16 feet from the surface, in the neigh- 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



borhood of Vincenttown. It seems tliat this peculiar hydrocarbon 

 had not been observed in the State of New Jersey before ; at least no 

 mention of it is made in the Geological Reports up to 1808. The 

 specimen presented to the Academy had attached on one side a 

 layer of the marl in which it was found. As the material in ques- 

 tion is properly considered a mixture of various hydrocarbons, it 

 seems to be obvious that the properties vary according to the 

 predominance of one or the other substance contained therein. 

 This kind is very brittle, black, with a resinous lustre. Its frac- 

 ture is uneven, inclined to conchoidal ; the streak and powder 

 appear brown. It melts easily in the flame, like wax, and burns 

 with a yellow smoky flame, leaving, after burning, a voluminous 

 coal and but little ashes. In water, alcohol, and solution of caus- 

 tic potassa, it is not soluble. It dissolves in chloroform and in 

 oil of turpentine. In ether it dissolves with difficulty, forming a 

 yellowish brown solution by transmitted and a dirty greenish so- 

 lution by reflected light. Oil of vitriol dissolves it into a black 

 liquor, which, when poured into water, shows that a part of the 

 substance is retained in solution, whilst another subsides as a dark 

 colored powder. Nitric acid reacts on the substance at an elevated 

 temperature, forming therewith soluble products of oxidation. 



Not far from the pit from which the asphaltum had been ob- 

 tained, a specimen of yellow mineral resin was found. It occurs 

 frequently in the marl of the cretaceous formation, but not regu- 

 larly ; sometimes hundreds of tons may be looked over without 

 finding a single piece ; at other times enough has been found to 

 fill a barrel within a day. It is usually known under the name of 

 amber or succinite. 



It differed in several particulars from the typical amber found 

 at the bottom and on the coast of the Baltic Sea. Our specimen 

 is lighter than water, whilst the amber from the Baltic is specifi- 

 cally heavier. The latter fuses into a thick sluggish fluid, the 

 Vincenttown amber into a very fluid mobile liquid; the cohesion 

 of the Baltic product is stronger than in the specimen in question. 

 These differences indicate its analogy to the variety of succinite 

 called Krantzite by C. Bergeman, who reported its occurrence 

 near Nieuberg, Germany. 



It melts on heated platinum foil into a brown liquid, which 

 runs like water. It takes fire easily, and burns with a yellowish, 

 strongly smoking flame, leaving but little coal, which rapidly 

 burns away and leaves a small quantit} 7 of dark colored ashes as 

 a residue. Heated in a closed tube it melts and vaporizes into a 

 gray cloud, which condenses easily to an oily liquid and some 

 small crystals, which are probably succinic acid. The odor of the 

 fumes is strongly penetrating, like acrolein. In water, alcohol, 

 or ether, it seems to be but sparingly soluble. In chloroform, 

 bisulphide of carbon, and in oil of turpentine, it dissolves freely. 

 Oil of vitriol makes with it a red solution. Cold nitric acid seems 



4 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



not to affect it much. On wanning, the yellowish powder be- 

 comes orange-red. It is partly dissolved by caustic potassa. In 

 this yellowish brown Krantzite, Mr. Goldsmith noticed on a fresh 

 fracture a row of white crystals arranged in radiating groups. 

 The crystals were too small for mechanical separation, but the 

 opinion was expressed that they were Succinellite. 



The following were ordered to be published: 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



DESCRIPTIONS OF THREE NEW SPECIES OF CALCEOLIDJE FROM THE 

 UPPER SILURIAN ROCKS OF KENTUCKY. 



BY VICTOR W. LYON. 



For several years past there have been found in the ferruginous 

 clay and light-gray marly limestone of the Niagara period, which 

 outcrops at the quarries in Jefferson County, Kentucky, on Bear- 

 grass Creek, one mile east of Louisville, many fossils, which have 

 been considered by some collectors to be a species of coral allied 

 to Zaphrentis. 



Until November 25th, 1877, all the specimens which I found 

 were in such a state of preservation that they could not be de- 

 termined. 



Since my attention has been called particularly to these speci- 

 mens, I have collected one hundred and seventy well-preserved 

 fossils, which I regard as true Galceolse. There are four distinct 

 species, of which three are new. 



In the same bed, associated with these new forms of Calceola, 

 are found Calceola Tennesseensis (Roemer) ; Orthis elegantula, 

 0. hybrida, 0. nisfs, 0. rugse, plicata ; Spirifer radiala, S. cris- 

 jms, S. rostellum ; Pentamerus nysius, P. Littoni, P. Knappi, P. 

 nucleus; Rhynchonella Sajfordi, R. Tennesseensis, P. neglecta ; 

 Cyrtia exporrecta ; Caryocrinus ornatus ; Eucalyptocrinus cssla- 

 tus, E. crassus ; Haplocrinus ovalis, etc. The new species refer- 

 red to are as follows : 



Genus CALCEOLA, Lamarck, 1801. 

 Calceola corniculum, V. W. Lyon, n. sp. 



Shell thin ; valves not articulated ; ventral valve horn-shaped ; 

 area high and narrow, greatly curved to the left, flat, one inch 

 along the shorter curve, from apex to hinge ; hinge straight, four- 

 tenths inch long, at an obtuse angle to the apex. 



Draw a line from the centre of the hinge perpendicularly, and 

 it will cut the longer curve of the area midway between apex and 

 hinge. 1 



1 I have before me two very perfect ventral valves of 0. Tennesseensis, 

 from Decatur County, Teun., Upper Silurian. Shell triangular pyramidal, 

 area one inch from apex to hinge ; hinge line one inch wide. 



If a line be drawn from cardinal process to apex, it will divide the shell 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



Dorsal side of ventral valve sub-semicircular, markings of 

 growth indistinct, parallel to sub-semicircular opening; dorsal 

 side of opening almost perpendicular to hinge line, or about one : 

 tenth inch nearer to the apex. 



Cardinal process or tooth central, round and smooth along its 

 summit, three-tenths inch in length, three-tenths in width, gradu- 

 ally narrowing from the hinge backward, extending from the 

 hinge line to the inner end of cavity. 



The characters which separate this species from G. Tennes- 

 seensis, Roemer, and G. sandalinae, Lamarck, are well marked. 

 The semicircular margin of the mouth in G. Tennesseensis is 

 one-half inch from the apex; while in G. corniculum it is nine- 

 tenths inch, or almost over the hinge line. 



Position and Locality. A few good ventral valves have been 

 obtained from the ferruginous clay, Niagara period, one mile east 

 of Louisville, north side of Beargrass Creek. 



Calceola Coxii, 1 V. W. Lyon, n. sp. 



Shell thick, triangular, valves not articulated ; ventral valve 

 pyramidal ; area large, flat, triangular, nine-tenths inch high, with 

 an obscure central line; markings of growth prominent, extend- 

 ing around the shell parallel to hinge ; hinge line straight crenu- 

 lated, four-tenths inch long. 



Mouth semicircular; cavity three-tenths inch deep ; all around 

 the mouth, extending centrally towards the bottom of cavity, are 

 linear rows of punctures, not so conspicuous as in those of the 

 European species, G. sandalina. The cardinal process central, 

 prominent, short, round, and smooth along its summit. 



Dorsal valve raised slightly, sub-centrally toward hinge line; 

 valve composed of several thin semicircular plates, one above 

 another, gradually increasing in diameter from top to bottom ; 

 area very narrow. Cardinal process not seen. 



In some adult species young are seen attached to the bottom of 

 cavity; none have been found on the outside of shell, as in G 

 attenuatus. 



Position and Locality In same beds as the preceding, also in 



into two right-angle triangles. The hinge is at right angles to the apex ; 

 while in G. corniculum the hinge is at an obtuse angle. 



1 I take great pleasure in dedicating this elegant Calceola to Prof. E. T. 

 Cox, State Geologist of Indiana. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



marly limestone of Niagara period, north side Beargrass Creek, 

 one mile east of Louisville, Jefferson County, Ky. 



I have two excellent specimens with both valves united ; also 

 ten good ventral valves of this species. 



Calceola attenuates, V. W". Lyon, n. sp. 



Shell thick, attenuated, valves not articulated ; area of ventral 

 valve high and narrow, curving to the right, then to the left, then 

 to the right (some have three curves, others only two) ; area 

 straight part of the distance from the aperture toward the apex, 

 then curving gradually upward and outward (some specimens 

 have two curves upward, others one) ; area two inches high, with 

 an obscure central line; hinge three-tenths inch wide, straight. 



Markings of growth in some specimens very prominent, also 

 striae extending around the shell, parallel to the semicircular 

 opening or mouth. One of the most remarkable features of this 

 species is, that along the outer edge, and sometimes the central 

 line of the area, at almost each line of growth, and also in one or 

 two specimens at the mouth of the shell, are one or more pro- 

 cesses or small bodies having the appearance of foot-stalks. Some 

 of them are one-tenth inch in length, others four-tenths. At first 

 I thought these processes had served merely to attach the shell 

 to some permanent body ; but after cleaning one very large and 

 elegant specimen, I discovered these processes to be young Cal- 

 ceolee, showing all the distinct features of the older one. 



In one young ventral valve, which is attached to the second 

 line of growth of an adult, the cardinal process or tooth is perfect. 



Another most singular feature in the adult of this species is, 

 that in two places the central line of the area is lifted at the line 

 of growth, and the cardinal process is seen at each. This speci- 

 men has the appearance as if three adults had almost swallowed 

 each other, leaving onty the hinge lines and tooth visible. Cardi- 

 nal process three-tenths inch long, from two to three lines wide, 

 round and smooth along its summit, gradually diminishing in 

 width towards its end, not reaching the end of the cavity. In 

 some specimens the process is larger and longer than above indi- 

 cated, but it never reaches the bottom of the cavity as in C. cor- 

 niculum. The characters of this species are so well marked that 

 it can be distinguished at a glance from any known species of 

 Calceola. 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



Position and Locality. I have sixty good ventral valves from 

 the ferruginous cla}' and marly limestone of the Niagara period, 

 one mile east of Louisville, Ky., north side of Beargrass Creek. 



I have no doubt that the young of G. attenuatns and of all 

 other species of the Galceolidse became attached immediately after 

 germination, to the inner surface of the rim of the mouth, and 

 remained in this position until they were large enough to support 

 themselves. Lines of growth upon these species are nothing 

 more or less than the margins of former mouths, which are almost 

 alwa3 T s obliterated in very old adults, but in one instance two of 

 these old mouths are seen, showing the hinge, also the central 

 cardinal process, as well as the new one, within all of these 

 mouths, are seen young specimens of Calveola attached, having 

 the general characters of the adult. In two instances one of the 

 vigorous young attached itself to the bottom of the cavity and 

 eventually killed the old one, and then took complete possession. 



I have one specimen of G. attenuatns two inches long (ventral 

 valve), three-tenths inch wide at hinge, within the cavity of which 

 stands another Galceola of the same species one and a half inch 

 long, three-tenths inch at hinge; the apex of smaller is attached 

 to the bottom of the cavity of the larger, and almost fills it ; the 

 cardinal process of larger is seen. 




18*79.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 4T 



FURTHER NOTES ON THE MECHANICAL GENESIS OF TOOTH-FORMS. 



BY J. A. RYDER. 



In a paper published in the Proceedings of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 1 in 1818, I sought to indicate 

 the modes in which the teeth of mammals were modified by means 

 of the movements of their jaws incident to mastication, through 

 long series of generations. I there reached the conclusion that 

 mechanical strains and impacts had probably been the secondary 

 causes to which the origin of the various forms of teeth might, in 

 large measure, be attributed. The teeth were supposed to be 

 plastic, or at least slightly so, in all stages, notwithstanding their 

 extreme hardness. This view was forced upon me by facts pre- 

 sented by vertebrate palaeontology, together with my observation 

 that the physiological act of mastication was progressively spe- 

 cialized, and in each case its degree of specialization was found to be 

 in correspondence with the type of molar tooth with which it was 

 associated. In the course of m}' studies it seemed clear to me that 

 the tooth-modifying capacity resided in the powers of the animals 

 themselves, and the ways in which they were compelled? accord- 

 ing to the kind of food for which they had a preference, to exert 

 their powers. I am aware that this sort of reasoning amounts to 

 saying that an animal causes its own structures to vary in form, 

 by the natural operation of its own powers in overcoming resist- 

 ances, which view, notwithstanding its seeming improbability, has 

 more in its favor than that which holds that chance variations, 

 which have been of benefit to individuals, have been preserved and 

 transmitted to offspring and developed into organs in the course 

 of generations by the operation of the law of natural selection, the 

 importance of which I would be the last to underrate. The latter 

 view gives us no causal interpretation for so-called spontaneous 



1 " On the Mechanical Genesis of Tooth-Forms," pp. 45-80. 



2 Emphatically not wholly of their own wills, because the specialization 

 of organization presupposes a certain limitation in the power to make choice 

 caused by habits, which have become physiological characteristics, so 

 that the charge made against Lamarckianism that it throws all outside 

 power out of consideration, no matter of what character, is utterly false on 

 scientific grounds alone. 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



variations, which the view here advocated, in some cases at least, 

 affords ; though I do not wish to be understood as saying that it 

 gives such an interpretation in a large proportion of instances 

 where the history of the interacting modifying forces are as yet 

 perhaps imperfectly known. Natural selection is quite adequate 

 to account for the development of an organ, or part, after it has 

 made its appearance, but it leaves the initial step causally unac- 

 counted for, which, it must be confessed, is the point where the 

 Lamarckian hypothesis seeks to supply the needed differentiating 

 causes. The hap-hazard, causeless variation of organisms cannot, 

 in the nature of things, exist; it is contrary to all known prece- 

 dent as exhibited in the phenomena of the inorganic world. 



In studying the teeth, one is confronted b}' a number of large 

 series of forms which clearty demonstrate the fact that large num- 

 bers of allied species which have succeeded each other in geologi- 

 cal time bear a genealogical relation to each other. The earliest 

 forms of teeth being the simplest, the later ones seem to have been 

 derived from them b}' a process easily understood, if mechanically 

 interpreted. The tooth earliest developed of all, seems to have been 

 a simple hollow cone superimposed upon a nutrient papilla; in- 

 deed the enamel and dentinal portion seems to be developed from 

 its superficial (epithelial) layers of cells which elongate as they 

 grow and crowd together, becoming columnar, whilst the excess- 

 ivelj- hard salts of lime constituting the dentine and enamel are 

 deposited around the columnar matrix of cells or odontoblasts by 

 secretion, leaving a fine tubular cavity in the centre, from which 

 the odontoblasts retreat as their substance is crowded out by the 

 formation of the hard material around them. In living teeth these 

 are always joined to the dentine fibrils, especially in those rootless 

 ones which are constantly growing and wearing away during the 

 whole life-time of the animal. It is true, as an objection to my 

 view, that the tooth is not protruded until its crown is in all re- 

 spects fully developed and hardened, but it is not improbable that 

 teeth, like bones, though apparently very hard, may be modified 

 by strains falling upon them persistently in approximately one 

 way for many hundreds of generations. The hardest substances 

 are elastic, compressible, and flexible, and I think it will hardly 

 be doubted that enamel and dentine in possessing these three 

 qualities, though manifested in an inconceivably small degree 

 under ordinary circumstances, may, when acted upon by forces 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



exerted and repeated millions, perhaps billions of times in the 

 course of generations, be effectual in transmitting the simple pri- 

 mary form to a more complex later one, as I have tried to show 

 more fully in the paper already cited. That a brittle inflexible 

 substance like marble, when in the form of thin, rectangular slabs 

 may be bent by the force of gravity acting upon it persistently 

 whilst lying horizontally for a long time and only supported at 

 two of its corners diagonally opposite each other, is proved by an 

 old marble gravestone very much bent from this cause and now 

 belonging to the Academy. This phenomenon it seems to me is 

 no harder to explain than the morphological phenomena presented 

 by the teeth of mammals ; for my part, I believe that both the 

 phenomena in question will most probably bear a similar inter- 

 pretation. 



I now propose to offer some new evidence based upon more 

 accurate observations of the mode in which herbivorous ungulates 

 crush and masticate their food. A large living male rhinoceros 

 has afforded me the opportunity to make the observations. I 

 distinctly saw this creature crush its food by sweeping the lower 

 molars of the side about to be brought into action , from without in- 

 wards against the upper ones; meanwhile those on the other side 

 of the head were of course scarcely in contact, provided a con- 

 siderable amount of food was being acted upon by the side in use 

 at the instant. This, I concluded, for obvious reasons, was defi- 

 nitely the mode in which the jaws of ungulates were used which 

 were moved in both lateral and vertical directions in the act of 

 chewing; in other words, it seems to be the manner in which 

 chewing is effected in all anisognathous selenodont mammals, 

 which can be definitely traced to a bunodont ancestry. 



It will be readily understood that the above observations in 

 some measure modify the conclusions reached in my former paper, 

 in which the belief was entertained that the motion which did the 

 crushing was outwards instead of inwards. From facts which I 

 have gathered, it now seems strange to me that I should have fallen 

 into this misapprehension, since the true method promises to yield 

 even a better interpretation of the true philosophy of tooth-modi- 

 fication by mechanical agencies than that first ottered. It must, 

 however, here be stated that, in no essential particular except 

 one, do I alter my former views. I still hold the mandibular 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18*79. 



articulations to be the principal odontoinorpliic centres, as all 

 mandibular movements are regulated from them as axes. 



From the fact that the movements are from without inwards in 

 selenodonts generally, the outer series of cusps, in the advent of 

 such lateral movements, seem to be most compressed laterally 

 and their tips most deflected in an inward direction, and I shall 

 therefore consider the cause as acting from the outside instead of 

 from the inside as formerly. The paleontological evidence afforded 

 by symborodonts, where the selonodont or crescent-shaped cusp 

 first appears in the outer row of molar cusps, whilst the inner row 

 is still bunodont, is pretty conclusive. This singular combination 

 of cusp characters is also exhibited by Titanotherium, Palseosyops, 

 etc. Other series of ungulates show the almost synchronous de- 

 velopment of the crescent-shaped cusps in both outer and inner 

 rows, but earlier forms seem to indicate pretty unanimously that 

 the outer or buccal series are the first to be differentiated. In 

 Coryphodon, figured by Cope, 1 is exhibited the inward flexure and 

 flattening of the exterior rows of cusps of the upper molars, in a 

 perhaps unparalleled degree. 



The change of view is simply in regard to the manner in which 

 the modifying force is applied, and does not change the principle 

 involved, which assumes broadl}' that the lateral mandibular 

 movements produce lateral changes in dental forms, whilst on the 

 other hand reciprocating ones produce antero-posterior and pos- 

 tero-anterior ones. Having definitel}- concluded as to the direction 

 of the action of the forces, in evidence of which a great catalogue 

 of facts might he adduced, more indeed than my space and means 

 will afford, I will briefly consider that offered by the molar denti- 

 tion of Symborodon. 



In the diagram- which represents a rear molar of the right side 

 seen from in front, in which E is the external and I the internal 

 side; the simple anterior inner bunodont cusp B is seen to be but 

 little modified, whilst the outer selenodont cusp S is seen to be 

 much w^orn away, showing great disparity of development between 

 the two. The appearance of tubercle S in vertical median trans- 

 verse section, is indicated by the entire and dotted lines from a to a' 



' U. S. Geog. Surveys West of the 100th Meridian, Vol. IV. Vertebrate 

 Paleontology, 4to., by E. D. Cope. Washington, 1877. 



2 Prof. Cope has permitted me to make this sketcb from a specimen in 

 his superb collection of remains of these extinct animals. 




1879.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



51 



and a", the apical portion 

 worn off being restored in 

 outline. This shows that 

 S has been deflected in an 

 inward direction, and indi- 

 cates that the force opera- 

 tive in causing the deflec- 

 tion has been constantly 

 active from one side, or 

 that upon which the large 

 arrow is placed pointing in 

 the direction of the dotted 

 line. The total displacing 

 force exerted by the jaw 

 moving in an inward direction during the entire lifetime of 

 the animal may be supposed to be represented by this arrow, 

 plus that of its ancestry, during the existence of which the tooth 

 has been brought to its present form by the mechanical process 

 of differentiation indicated. The muscular power or crushing 

 force exerted by the mandibular muscles (the coefficient of which 

 is 104 pounds per square inch of section, Haughton) in an upward 

 direction indicated by the lower smaller arrow pointing upwards in 

 thedirection of the entire vertical line, would tend while the mandible 

 is moving inwards and obliquely upwards to act as a wedge upon 

 the somewhat oblique faces of the upper molars, forcing them out- 

 wards in the direction of the dotted line and arrow pointing 

 towards a. In this way the cause of the anisognathism is ac- 

 counted for, whilst it is also not to be forgotten, that the influence 

 of this peculiar combination of forces cannot be without effect in 

 producing modifications upon the crowns of the teeth from within, 

 so that in reality, modifying forces may be at work from both 

 sides. 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE CHIMPANZEE. 

 BY H. C. CHAPMAN, M.D. 



The literature on the anatomy of the Chimpanzee is much more 

 extensive than that on the Gorilla, the animal having been dis- 

 sected by Tyson, 1 Traill, 2 Vrolik, 3 Schroeder Van der Kolk, 4 

 Wyman, 5 Marshall, 6 Rolleston, 7 Wilder, 8 Huxley, 9 Gratiolet and 

 Alix, 10 Turner, 11 Humphrey, 12 Broca, 13 Macalister, 14 Bischoff, 15 

 Cliampneys, 16 and others. It may appear, therefore, superfluous 

 to offer the results of my dissection of the female Chimpanzee, 

 Troglodytes niger, which recently died at the Zoological Garden 

 of this city. In comparing, however, the accounts of the authors 

 just referred to, it becomes evident that the animals dissected by 

 them must in some instances have been different species of Chim- 

 panzees, and in others that they exhibited individual peculiarities. 

 The above accounts are, moreover, often limited to only portions 

 of the body. Indeed, the only elaborate modern treatises I have 

 seen are those of Vrolik and Gratiolet. The admirable mono- 

 graph of Tyson, old as it is, may still be consulted with the greatest 

 advantage. I propose confining myself to a general account of the 

 Chimpanzee I dissected, calling attention more particularly to the 

 points in which it differed from those previously described, and 

 the general resemblances and differences between it and the Gorilla 

 and Man. The specimen dissected by me was a female, supposed 



1 Anatomy of a Pygmie, 1699. 



2 Memoirs of Wernerian Society, 1821. 



3 Recherches sur le Chimpanzee, 1841. 



4 Schroeder Van der Kolk and Vrolik, Amsterdam Verhandelingen, 1^19. 



5 Proceedings of Boston Society of N. H., 1856. 



6 Natural History Review, 1861. 



7 Natural History Review, vol. i. 



8 Boston Journal of N. H., 1863. 



9 Medical Times and Gazette, 1861. 



10 Nouvelle Archives du Musee, 1866. 



11 Proceedings of Royal Society of Edinburgh, 1866. 



12 Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, 1867. 



13 Bulletin Societe d' Anthropologic, 1869. 



14 Annals and Mag. of Nat. Hist., 1871. 



15 Abhandlungen of Munich Acad., 1871. 



16 Journal of Anat. and Phys., 1872. 




1879-3 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



to be about five years old, and measured 28^ inches from crown 

 of head to sole of the feet. The upper extremity of right side 

 measured from shoulder to end of middle finger 18 in.; the lower 

 extremity measured from the head of the femur to the end of the 

 middle toe of the right side 16 inches. The hand, taken from 

 the wrist to the end of the middle finger, measured, on the right 

 side, 5| in. The right foot, considered from homologous points, 

 was 5^ inches long. As in the young Gorilla, so in the young- 

 Chimpanzee, Plates IX. and X., the resemblance of the head to 

 that of a human being of an uncivilized race is more striking than 

 in the adult. The distinction between the hand and foot in the 

 Chimpanzee is not, however, so well marked as in the Gorilla 

 the foot, superficially considered, resembling a hand. As we shall 

 see, however, this is only a functional difference, the lower extrem- 

 ity in the Chimpanzee terminating structurally in a foot just in 

 the same sense that a man's does, all of the apes and monkeys 

 being anatomically bimanous and bipedous, and not quadruma- 

 nous. The hand in the Chimpanzee is larger than the foot. 



Cervical Region. On removing the skin I noticed a well- 

 developed platysma myoides, and so far as I could see this was 

 the only representative of the panniculus carnosus muscle of the 

 lower animals, with the exception, perhaps, of a few scattered 

 fibres in the fascia of the hand corresponding to the palmaris 

 brevis of Man. The external jugular vein was quite evident. Next 

 in order came the superficial cervical plexus of nerves and the 

 sterno-cleido mastoid muscle, which differed from that of Man in 

 being divided into sternal and cleidal portions, the cleidal portion 

 arising a little lower than the sternal, and the insertions being 

 equally distinct. The spinal accessory nerve separates the two 

 parts of this muscle, and differs in this respect from the disposi- 

 tion given by Yrolik, as well as in the fact that its internal root 

 joins the pneumogastric. From this latter nerve the superior and 

 inferior laryngeal nerves pass off to supply the larynx, the inferior 

 passing around the subclavian artery on the right side and the 

 aorta on the left, as in man. There was nothing particularly 

 noticeable in the distribution of the glosso-pharyngeal, lingual 

 branch of the 5th, or the hypoglossal nerves, this latter winding 

 around the external carotid artery, passing over the hyoglossus 

 muscle and under the mylohyoid to be lost in the tongue. The 

 digastric was well developed, as also the stylo-glossus, stylo- 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



hyoid, and stylo-pharyngeus muscles. Anteriorly I noticed the 

 sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and thyro-hyoid, and the little crico- 

 thyroid artery passing across the erico-thyroid membrane. 

 Laterally the omohyoid muscle was well developed. It was held 

 in position by the little band of the cervical fascia, and served, 

 with the sterno-cleido mastoid muscle, to divide the neck, topo- 

 graphical^ speaking, into the triangles. I noticed that the muscle 

 sometimes called the omo-cervicalis was well developed. This 

 muscle arises from the transverse process of the atlas, and is 

 inserted into the clavicle ; it was very properly described by Tyson 

 as the elevator of the clavicle. It has been found in Man as an 

 anomaly. Very human in its appearance was the disposition of 

 the phrenic nerve lying upon the scalenus anticus muscle, and 

 coming from the 3d and 4th cervicals. The muscle separated the 

 subclavian vein from the artery, and between it and the scalenus 

 medius the brachial plexus emerged. The whole cervical region 

 was strikingly human in its disposition, and with the exceptions 

 of the sterno-cleido mastoid muscle being divided into two, and in 

 the presence of an omo-cervicalis muscle, the neck of the Chim- 

 panzee would serve the surgical anatomist as material for a 

 demonstration quite as well as that of a human being. On raising 

 the clavicle the subclavius minor and coracoid ligament were 

 seen well developed; the pectoralis muscle, however, presented a 

 difference from that of Man, as it arose from the 2d and 3d ribs, 

 and was inserted into the head of the humerus. The axillary 

 region was very human in its appearance; the anterior and pos- 

 terior thoracic nerves and the intercosto-humeral were well de- 

 veloped. 



Upper Extremity. The brachial plexus surrounding the axillary 

 artery exhibited the outer, posterior, and inner cords, the outer 

 coming from the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervicals, the inner from 

 the eighth cervical and first dorsal ; the posterior cord from the 

 outer and inner ones. The plexus gave off, as in Man, the external 

 cutaneous, median, ulnar, internal cutaneous, and musculo-spiral. 

 I did not notice, however, the nerve of Wrisberg; the subscapular 

 and suprascapular nerves were found in their customaiy human 

 position. The disposition of the median, ulnar, and radial nerves 

 in the hand were the same as in Man. The latissimo-condyloideus 

 muscle was well developed, but I could see no difference in the 

 biceps, coraco-brachialis, brachialis anticus, and triceps as com- 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



pared with the same muscles in man. In the forearm the prona- 

 tor radii teres arose by two heads, the median nerve passing be- 

 tween them as in Man, whereas I found only one head in the 

 Gorilla. The palmaris longus was well developed: whereas it was 

 absent in the Gorilla I dissected. Flexor sublimis digitorum and 

 profundus were more split up than in Man, but as a whole there 

 was no marked difference between them and those of Man. The 

 flexor longus pollicis, joined to the perforator of the index, was 

 to a certain extent differentiated from the flexor profundus digi- 

 torum, its tendon passed between the two heads of the flexor 

 brevis pollicis. The other muscles of the thumb and those of the 

 little finger compared favorably with those of Man; the lumbri- 

 cales were large. The supinator longus arose from the humerus 

 much higher up than in Man. The extensor ossi metacarpi pol- 

 licis terminated in two tendons; the secundii internodii pollicis 

 was present, but there was no extensor primi-internodii. I found 

 this muscle, however, in the Gorilla. The extensor indicis and 

 extensor minimi digiti terminated in their respective digits singly, 

 whereas in the lower monkeys the middle finger is supplied by 

 a slip from the indicis, and the ring finger with one from the 

 minimi digiti in addition to the tendons of the extensor commu- 

 nis. According to some anatomists the extensor indicus in the 

 Chimpanzee supplies both index and middle fingers. The Chim- 

 panzee seems, from the above brief sketch of the muscular sys- 

 tem of the upper extremity, to be closer allied to Man than the 

 Gorilla, inasmuch as the pronator arises by two heads and in 

 having a palmaris longus and a flexor longus pollicis, but it differs 

 from the Gorilla and Man in that the extensor ossii metacarpi 

 divides into two tendons, and in there being no extensor primi in- 

 ternodii pollicis. 



Lower Extremity. Traill, 1 in his account of the Chimpanzee, 

 figures a muscle, which he called the scansorius, rising from the 

 ileum and inserted into the femur. This muscle appears to me to 

 be simply a part of the gluteus minimus. According to Vrolik 2 

 the tensor vaginae femoris had been confounded with the so-called 

 scansorius by Traill, but in my specimen the former muscle was 

 very well developed, and I should not have noticed any thing par- 

 ticular about the gluteus had not a portion of it been described 



' Traill, op. ciL, Plate I. Fig. 1. 

 2 Vrolik, op. cit., p. 21. 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



separately as the seansorius. The rotators of the thigh were 

 present. The adductors are five in number. The semimem- 

 branosus and semitendinosus, as in the Gorilla, hardly deserve 

 names characteristic of their homolognes in Man, as they are quite 

 muscular. The gracilis is very large. The sartorius, however, 

 rather slender. There was a well developed popliteus, but no plan- 

 taris muscle. The soleus arose by the fibular head only. As re- 

 gards the anterior aspect of the leg, the tibialis anticus splits into 

 two tendons, the extensor longus digitorum was present, but the 

 so-called peronens tertius was absent. The extensor longus hallucis 

 and extensor brevis digitorum were well developed, as also the 

 peroneus longus and brevis on the fibular side of the leg. The 

 flexor accessorius was absent. The flexor brevis digitorum supplied 

 the second and third toes only, the tendinous slips for the fourth 

 and fifth came from the flexor longus digitorum ; whereas in the 

 Gorilla the slip for the fifth came from the flexor longus hallucis. 

 In the Chimpanzee the slip for the fifth toe is vei-y delicate, and, like 

 that of the Gorilla, is not perforated. There is quite an intimate 

 union between the fibres of the flexor longus hallucis and digitorum. 

 The special muscles of the minimi digiti and hallux are well devel- 

 oped, and in addition to the ordinary flexor brevis hallucis I noticed 

 a delicate muscular slip arising from the calcaneum in common with 

 the flexor brevis, which was inserted into the phalanx of the hal- 

 lucis. Its action was to flex the hallux. This little slip was also 

 seen in the other foot. So far as I know it has not been described 

 before in the Chimpanzee. There was no transversus pedis. The 

 little slip, called by Prof. Huxley the abductor ossi metacarpi 

 quinti digiti, I noticed in the left foot. There was nothing re- 

 markable about the bloodvessels of the lower extremity, except 

 that the saphenous vein did not pass into the femoral through the 

 saphenous opening, which was well developed in the Gorilla, and 

 the anterior tibial artery was very small, its place being supplied 

 by a large vessel coming from the femoral at about the position of 

 the anastomotic^ magna in the human being. I ventured to call 

 this vessel in the Gorilla the "long saphenous artery," as it ac- 

 companied the artery and nerve of the same name to the foot in 

 that animal. The nerves did not differ essentially from those of 

 man. 



Alimentary Canal and Appendages. The tongue in the Chim- 

 panzee is thicker than in man. I found the circumvallate papillae 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



arranged in the form of a Y, as in man, and not a T, as has been 

 found to be the case in other specimens. The parotid gland 

 was large, the duct of Steno crossed the masseter. The submax- 

 illary was absolutely very large. The stomach was very human 

 in shape. The length of the small intestine was eight feet, that 

 of the large two and a half. The vermiform appendix measured 

 six and a half inches. The Peyer's patches in small intestine 

 were very striking. There are no valvulse conniventes. There 

 was nothing peculiar about the spleen or pancreas ; in reference 

 to the liver the quadrate lobe was not well differentiated, and the 

 caudate lobe was thick rather than caudate. 1 noticed an inter- 

 esting fact in reference to the peritoneum : When the great omen- 

 tum was raised the transverse colon was seen to be attached to its 

 under surface, as in Man ; whereas in other monkeys and the lower 

 mammals the transverse colon is quite separate from the great 

 omentum. This condition is also seen in the human foetus, but, as 

 development advances in it, the peritoneum covering the trans- 

 verse colon becomes adherent to the great omentum, and ultimately 

 in Man appears as one structure. In this respect the Chimpanzee 

 agrees with Man and differs from the monkeys. I do not know 

 whether this disposition has been observed before in the Chim- 

 panzee or the other anthropoids. I suspect the same' disposition 

 obtains in the Gorilla. 



Respiratory and Circulatory Systems. As is well known, in 

 the male Chimpanzee and the other anthropoids, the ventricles of 

 the larynx are enormously dilated, these pouches extending up 

 into the neck, even under the trapezius muscle and over the breast 

 into the axillse. Noticing during life that the voice of the female 

 Chimpanzee was so much weaker than her mate, I was prepared 

 to find these ventricular pouches very rudimentary, even if devel- 

 oped at all. According to some anatomists these pouches have no 

 influence upon the voice. 



The pouches, however, extended even in the female up to the 

 hyoid bone and base of the tongue. The crico-thyroid, thyroary- 

 tenoid crico-arytenoid, lateralis and posticus, and arytenoid raus: 

 cles were well developed. The inferior vocal cord, or more properly 

 vocal membrane, was of a triangular shape, and quite distinguish- 

 able from the remaining part of the mucous membrane. The right 

 lung was divided into three lobes, the left into two, as in Man. 

 I noticed that the left carotid and left subclavian arteries came 

 5 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



off from a common vessel, a short innominate, differing in this 

 respect from the Gorilla and VrolikV Chimpanzee, which in the 

 disposition of its great bloodvessels is like that of Man. 



Genito-urinary Organs. I3elieving that the transitory stages 

 through which a human being passes in utero are often perma- 

 nently retained through life in the lower animals, it appeared to 

 me that the best way of determining the question as to whether 

 the Chimpanzee had the external and internal labia of the human 

 female was to compare my specimen with a human female foetus. 

 The opportunity of examining two negro foetuses about five months 

 old, presenting itself at the same time that I was dissecting the 

 Chimpanzee, I compared the generative apparatus of all three, and 

 1 am satisfied that they are morphologically essentially the same, 

 for in the Chimpanzee there is a well-developed clitoris, with 

 frenum and prepuce; below the frenum the internal labia are 

 un distinguishable from the external, and these latter are un- 

 developed above the clitoris. The whole appearance of the 

 uterus, vagina, and ovaries in the Chimpanzee is also similar to 

 the internal organs of the human foetus. The bladder was large, 

 and the kidneys resembled those of man in their form, and dif- 

 fered from that of the Orang in having more than one papilla. 



The Brain. The brain of the Chimpanzee has been described 

 by several anatomists, and figured by Tyson, Tiedmann, 2 Vrolik, 

 Schroeder van der Kolk, 3 Gratiolet, 4 Rolleston, Marshall, Turner, 

 Bischoff, Broca, and others. As the existence of a " posterior lobe, 

 posterior cornu, and hippocampus minor" in the brain of the Chim- 

 panzee and other apes and monkeys gave rise to a memorable dis- 

 cussion some years ago, it was with great interest that I hastened, 

 as soon as possible after death (a few hours), to open the skull of 

 the Chimpanzee, and to examine the brain in situ. The brain 

 weighed 10 ounces 10 grains. I confess to my great surprise, I 

 found the cerebellum uncovered b}' the cerebrum to the extent 

 shown in the illustrations, Plate XI., Figs. 1 and 2, and XII., Figs. 

 1 and 2, and remembering Prof. Huxley's criticism that 5 "his error 

 must become patent even to himself if he try to replace the brain 



1 Vrolik, op. cit., Plate VI. Fig. 4. 



2 Philos. Transactions, 1836. 



3 Schroeder Van der Kolk and Vrolik, Amsterdam Verhandelingen, 1849. 



4 Plis cerebraux de 1' Homme, 1854. 



5 Man's Place in Nature, p. 97. 






1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



within the cranial chamber," I did so, and yet the cerebellum re- 

 mained uncovered. Is it possible that in my young female Chim- 

 panzee the posterior lobe had not attained its full growth, or that 

 in some Chimpanzees the posterior lobe covers the cerebellum, 

 and in others it does not ? According to Prof. Huxley, this is 

 the case among the Gibbons, for in referring to the Siamang, he 

 says: this 1 " is remarkable, for the short posterior lobes of the 

 cerebrum which in this anthropomorphous ape do not overlap 

 the cerebellum, as they do in all the others." On the other hand, 

 Prof. Bischoff observes in his Beitrage on the Hylobates, " Da- 

 gegen kann ich Flower unci Huxley darin nicht beistimmen das 

 ,die hinteren Lappen des grossen Gehirns eine sehr bemerkens- 

 werthe Reduction gegen die der Gehirne der anderen Anthro- 

 poiden darin zeigen, dass sie das kleine Gehirn nicht mehr vbllig 

 bedeckten. Bei meinem Hylobates ist das kleine Gehirn vollstand- 

 iug durch die Hinterlappen des grossen Gehirns bedeckt." 2 It 

 appears to me more likely that in some Gibbons the cerebellum 

 is covered, and in others not, than that such eminent anatomists 

 as Professors Huxley, Flower, and Bischoff should be opposed in 

 reference to a mere matter of observation, and so with regard to 

 the diversity of opinion as to the cerebellum being covered by 

 the posterior lobes of the cerebrum in the Chimpanzee. 



According to Huxley, Rolleston, Marshall, Gratiolet, etc., the 

 cerebellum is covered by the cerebrum in the Chimpanzee. 



In the figures of the Chimpanzee given by Tyson, Tiedemann, 

 Yrolik, Schroeder Van der Kolk and Vrolik, the cerebellum is un- 

 covered by the posterior lobes of the cerebrum. Tiedemann 

 says: " The hemispheres of the brain are relatively to the spinal 

 marrow, medulla, cerebellum, etc., smaller than in man." 3 Ac- 

 cording to Vrolik, the Chimpanzee brain is distinguished from 

 the human, "par un moindre developpement des hemispheres du 

 cerveau qui ne recouvrent tout le cervelet."* Gratiolet, in refer- 

 ring to the figures of the brain of the Chimpanzee, in Schroeder 

 Van der Kolk's and Vrolik's paper in the Amsterdam Verhandelin- 

 gen for 1849, speaks of the brain as being " profondement aflaise." 

 Now, while these eminent anatomists admit the justness of Grati- 



1 Anatomy of Vertebrates, p. 410. 



2 Beitrage, etc., Munich Aband, 1870, p. 272. 



3 Philos. Trans., p. 518. 

 i Recherches, p. 39. 




60 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [18T9. 



olet's criticism, j^et they observe in their " Note sur l'encephale 

 de l'Orang," in the Amsterdam Yerslagen for 1802, page 7, 

 " A vrai dire, ce lobe posterieur ou occipital ne se prulonge pas 

 autantque chez l'homme; il ne recouvre pas si bien lecervelet, du 

 moins il ne la cache pas completement surtout vers les cotes; mais 

 il n'y a rien la dedans, qui nous empeche de lui donner le nom 

 qui lui est du. Par rapport an developpement du cervelet, nous 

 ne croyons pas faire une chose inutile en rappelant que, d'apres 

 les mesures que nous avons publiees en 1849, le cervelet du Chim- 

 panse et de l'Orang est proportionnellement plus grand que celui 

 de l'homme. Cela doit avoir une certaine influence sur la maniere 

 dont il se trouve pour une partie a decouvert chez ces animaux 

 qui ont les lobes occipitaux moins e'tendus que ceux de l'homme." 

 Their plate, Fig. 1, giving the brain of the Orang, shows quite 

 plainly the cerebellum partially uncovered by the cerebrum. In my 

 Chimpanzee the cerebellum was extremely well developed, as ma}' 

 be seen from Plate XL, Fig. 2. Should future investigation show 

 that the posterior lobes of the cerebrum do not invariably over- 

 lap the cerebellum, as in the Chimpanzee dissections just referred 

 to, and in the Orang of Vrolik and Gibbon of Huxley, it will only 

 be another instance of the truth that the lower monkeys in some 

 respects are more nearly allied to man than the Anthropoids, for 

 I have found the cerebellum entirely covered by the cerebrum in 

 the genera Macacus, Cynocephalus, Semnojyithecus, Ateles, Gebus, 

 etc. Prof. Huxle}^ observes, " if a man cannot see a church, it is 

 preposterous to take his opinion about its altar-piece or its painted 

 windows any one who cannot see the posterior lobe in an ape's 

 brain is not likely to give a very valuable opinion respecting the 

 posterior cornu or the hippocampus minor." 1 Now it does not 

 follow because the cerebrum did not overlap the cerebellum in my 

 Chimpanzee that there was no posterior lobe. It is one thing to 

 state that the posterior lobe did not entirely conceal the cerebel- 

 lum, and another that the posterior lobe did not exist at all. 

 Further, when the proper section was made of the lobe the pos- 

 terior cornu of the ventricle was very evident, Plate XII., Fig. 3, 

 as also the hippocampus minor, and indeed there was the emi- 

 nentia collateralis as well. It seemed to me that it was not so 

 much that the posterior lobe with its contents was undeveloped in 



Man's Place in Nature, p. 99. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



the Chimpanzee as it was that the cerebellum was relatively to 

 the cerebrum very much developed, Plate XII., Fig. 1. 



Of late years the convolutions of the human brain have been 

 very carefully described, and compared with those of the lower 

 animals; among others, by Bischorf, Ecker, Gratiolet, Pansch, 

 and Ilusche. And through the development of the theory, based 

 upon pathological, experimental, and comparative anatomical 

 facts, that, ceeteris paribus, the grade of the intelligence is propor- 

 tional to the number and complexities of the gyri and sulci, the 

 comparison of the brain of an anthropoid with that of Man be- 

 comes very interesting. So far as I know, the first distinct state- 

 ment that the convolutions are most numerous in the brain of 

 Man, and that his superior intelligence is due to this, is to be found 

 in the works of Eristratus, as quoted by Galen. In 1664 Willis 

 called attention to the lower animals having convolutions, though 

 fewer than Man, and that certain animals, like monkeys, had more 

 of them than carnivorous ones,'etc. Vicq. D'Azyr, in 1789, noticed 

 the want of symmetry in the convolutions in the brain of Man. 

 In 1794 Malacarne called especial attention to the convolution 

 known as the gyrus fornicatus. Tiedemann, in 1816, treated of the 

 development of the convolutions. While undoubtedly the anato- 

 mists just referred to may be said to have begun the study of the 

 convolutions, nevertheless it appears to me that the credit of a 

 sj'stematic study of the folds and fissures in a group of animals, 

 the comparison of such with those of Man, and the extension of 

 such investigation to the mammalia generally, belongs to Prof. 

 Richard Owen, who in 1833 distinguished in the Felidaa the folds 

 by letters and the fissures by figures, and what is more, named 

 them. In 1842 his views were much extended in the lectures de- 

 livered at the Royal College of Surgeons, when the homologous 

 convolutions were brought out strikingly in the diagrams by col- 

 ors. Leaving this little historical digression, and returning to 

 the brain of the Chimpanzee, I think it may be stated that in 

 most of the specimens examined so far all of the convolutions and 

 fissures described in the human brain can be identified. There is 

 no difficulty in recognizing the four lobes the frontal, parietal, 

 occipital, and temporal, Plate XL, Fig. 1 ; Plate XII., Fig. 1. The 

 central lobe or island of Red, which is very slightly convoluted, 

 is entirely concealed in the Chimpanzee. The frontal lobe exhi- 




62 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



bits the upper, middle, and lower frontal convolutions, 1 separated 

 by the upper and lower frontal fissure, the latter passing into the 

 vertical frontal (precenti'al). The central fissure (Rolando) is 

 well marked, a little more forward in the Chimpanzee than in 

 Man, separating the anterior and posterior central convolutions. 

 The fissure of Sylvius is in such relation with the interparietal 

 and temporal fissures, that the supra-marginal and angular 

 convolutions are identical with those of Man. The "ascending: 

 branch" of the Sylvian fissure also passes in between the middle 

 frontal and precentral fissures as in Man. The first, second, and 

 third temporal convolutions, with the first and second temporal 

 fissures, are as distinct in the Chimpanzee as in Man, and the con- 

 tinuity of the occipital and temporal lobes through the lower 

 temporal convolutions (3d and 4th plis de passage of Gratiolet) 

 is as unbroken' in our ape as in the human being. Further, the 

 three convolutions of the occipital lobe, with its transverse occipi- 

 tal and inferior longitudinal fissures, do not present any very 

 marked differences from the homologous structure in Man. Up to 

 this point I believe I have made no statements in reference to the 

 fissures and convolutions of the brain of the Chimpanzee which 

 have not been substantially made before. There has, however, 

 been, and is still, a diversity of opinion in reference to the parts 

 of the occipital convolutions which bridge over the external per- 

 pendicular fissure, which seems to be a continuation of the internal 

 perpendicular or parieto-occipital fissure. The convolutions which 

 I have referred to above as the upper and middle occipital convo- 

 lutions pass in Man and Ateles so insensibly into the upper parietal 

 lobule and angular convolutions respectively that apparently no 

 external perpendicular fissure exists ; the parieto-occipital, how- 

 ever, being apparent enough. In the Chimpanzee that I dissected, 

 the external perpendicular fissure is quite apparent, but the two 

 occipital convolutions seem to me to be present, the upper one 

 serving to partially bridge over the inner part of the external per- 

 pendicular fissure connecting the upper occipital with the upper 

 parietal lobule, the middle occipital passing into the angular con- 

 volution and bridging over the outer part of the external perpen- 

 dicular fissure; the difference then in the brain of the Chimpan- 

 zee and Man in this respect being one essentially of degree, the 



1 I make use of the nomenclature of Ecker in " Cerebral Convolutions of 

 Man," English synonymes. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



upper occipital convolution in Man being more superficial than in 

 the ape. The upper occipital convolution, according to Huxley 

 and Gratiolet, is absent in the Chimpanzee, but has been found 

 at least on one side in the specimens described by Rolleston, 

 Marshall, Turner, and Broca. The upper and middle occipital 

 convolutions, so far as I have been able to compare them, seem to 

 correspond to the convolutions described under the names of 

 "Plis de passage," " Bridging," " Annectant gyri," and"Obere, 

 innere unci aussere Seheitelbogen-Windungen." The only other 

 peculiarity that I noticed in the Chimpanzee was in reference to 

 the parieto-occipital fissure of the right side, which did not reach 

 the calcarine, being separated by the "deuxieme plis du passage 

 interne" of Gratiolet, and that on both sides the calcarine lissure 

 passed into the hippocampal, so that the gyrus fornicatus did not 

 pass into the convolution of the hippocampus as in Man. In 

 this latter respect, however, Ateles Paniscus, one case of Hylo- 

 bates, and Turner's Chimpanzee agree with Man and disagree 

 with all the other monkeys. The mesial side or the base of the 

 brain did not present anything very different from Man, so far 

 as they were susceptible of examination. The nerves coming 

 from the base of the brain were, however, relatively very large. 

 With all deference to Prof. Bischoff, I cannot agree that the 

 " Klu ft zwischen der hohen Entwicklung der Grosshirnwindung 

 des Menschen und derjenigen des Oi'ang oder der Chimpanse liisst 

 sich nicht ausfullen durch Hinweisung auf die Kluft zwischen der 

 Entwicklung dieser Windungen zwischen dem Orang oder Chim- 

 panse und Lemur. Letztere ist ausgefiillt durch die zwischen 

 beiden liegenden Arten der Affen. Die Ausfullung der ersteren 

 muss noch gefunden werden." 1 On the contrary, it appears to me 

 that on the whole the gap between the brain of the Chimpanzee and 

 Man is less than that between the Chimpanzee and the lower 

 monkeys ; and, though it is not generally considered so, that the 

 brain of the Chimpanzee resembles that of Man quite as closely 

 as that of the Orang. 



Resume. In considering the Chimpanzee in the totality of its 

 organization, it appears to me to be as closely allied to Man as 

 the Gorilla, but it must be remembered that, like it, in the absence 

 of certain muscles, etc., the Chimpanzee and Gorilla are both less 

 like Man than the lower monkeys. 



1 Die Grosshirnwindungen, p. 492. Munich Aband. 1868. 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF TIIE ACADEMY OF [187 9. 



March 4. 

 Mr. Thos. Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Thirty-six persons present. 



March 11. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Forty persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" On the Nudibranehiate Gasteropod Mollusca of the North 

 Pacific Ocean," by Dr. R. Bergh. 



" On the Variability 7 of Sphseria Quercuum, Schw.," by J. B. 

 Ellis. 



The death of Dr. J. H. McQuillen, a member, was announced. 



Note on Opuntia prolifera. Eng. Mr. Thomas Meehan ex- 

 hibited specimens of proliferous fruit of this species, sent by 

 Mr. Jackson Lewis, of San Jose, California. The fruit of three 

 years ago were still fresh and green, and these produced other 

 fruit immediately succeeding the last year. Mr. Meehan remarked 

 that similar cases were on record in Masters' "Teratology," and 

 in connection with this species in Brewer and Watson's " Flora of 

 California." The latter authors state that the proliferous fruit are 

 always sterile; but in cutting open twenty from those exhibited, 

 one was found with a perfect seed. 



Mr. Meehan pointed out the value of these abnormal growths 

 in explaining structure and function. In the succulent Cactacere 

 we speak of the small green bodies which appear and early mature 

 on the young growth, as the "leaves;" but we know from morpho- 

 logical law that the whole fruit is formed of metamorphosed pri- 

 mordial leaves, and there is no reason why the whole body of the 

 cactus might not be formed in the same wa}', and we should then, 

 perhaps, have to regard the so-called " leaves" as mere appendages. 

 At any rate, here is a case of what should have been fruit enduring 

 but a few months, assuming a permanent stem-character, and per- 

 forming all the functions usually connected with stem. It seemed 

 scarcely to leave room for a doubt that not only the parts of the 

 inflorescence, but the whole stem-structure is but " modified leaf," 

 in text-book language. 



Again a lesson is afforded in relation to the essential difference 

 between growth and reproductive force. The one of course grew 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



out of the other, and is in a great degree co-relative; and yet they 

 are, in a great measure, antagonistic forces, and it is as useful to 

 recognize them as such, as to note the distinction between leaf 

 blade and petiole, or liber cells and wood cells. Assuming the 

 distinction between these two forces, we are able to express the 

 true character of tins abnormal formation. The reproductive 

 force after influencing structure towards its especial object, had 

 been again subjected by the growth, or, more properly, vegetative 

 force, and it was thus enabled, though in an imperfect manner, to 

 continue in the line of its especial function. Of course all of 

 these distinctive powers in plants come down ultimately to vary- 

 ing phases of nutrition, and in this direction we are to look for 

 the secret whereby nature is enabled to make up the innumerable 

 forms and conditions of living things. 



March 18. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-nine persons present. 



The deaths of the following members were announced: J. B. 

 Knight, E. Spencer Miller, Clement Biddle, Henry J. Williams. 



March 25. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Seventy-three persons present. 



A paper entitled "Notes on Amphiuma,"by Dr. H. C. Chapman, 

 was presented for publication. 



Edw. D. Cope was elected to fill a vacancy in the Council, 

 caused by the death of Dr. J. H. McQuillen. 



Win. L. Auchincloss and Joseph Mellors were elected members. 



Wm. H. Leggett of New York, John M. Coulter of Hanover, 

 Ind., and George Bentham, F.L.S., of London, were elected cor- 

 respondents. 



The following were ordered to be published : 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [18T9. 



ON THE VARIABILITY OF SPH.ERIA QUERCUTJM, Schw. 

 BY J. B. ELLIS. 



Among the Sphreriaceous fungi of Southern New Jersey, no 

 species perhaps is oftener met with than Spheeria Quercuum, 

 Schw. And perhaps, it might be added, no species is more diffi- 

 cult to define and classify. Fries includes it among the " Conflu- 

 entes," remarking (Elench. ii. p. 84) that many species of that 

 section approach very near to the Dothideas. Berkeley, in " Gre- 

 villea," places it in Melogramma, taking that genus doubtless as 

 defined in his Outlines of British Fungology, p. 391, and by Fries 

 in Sum. Yeg. Scan. p. 386. Tulasne, however, who had exam- 

 ined this species, did not include it his genus Melogramma (see 

 his Selecta Fungorum Carpologia, vol. ii. p. 81). 



On examining the two genera, Melogramma and Dothidea, it 

 will be seen that there are no salient and unmistakable characters 

 by which they maj- be distinguished. Tulasne, 1. c, says of his 

 genus Melogramma, " Perithecia globosa ex parietibus nunc e 

 parenchymate materno vix distinctis nee solubilibus, nunc contra 

 sine negotio sejungendis facta ;" a definition which will include 

 two different types of perithecia, viz., those with walls not sepa- 

 rable from the substance of the stroma, and others with walls 

 readily separable ; in the former case scarcely distinguishable 

 from Dothidea, in which genus the ascigerous nucleus is contained 

 in cavities in the stroma without any distinct perithecium. Per- 

 haps the most obvious character separating the two genera may 

 be found in the stroma which is more highly developed in 

 Dothidea; but even here species occur, Dothidea perisporioides^ 

 B. & C. for example, where the stroma is so imperfectly developed 

 as to leave the classification somewhat doubtful. Not less difficult 

 is it to refer to their proper place the various forms of Sphseria 

 Quercnum, Schw., occurring as it does now scattered and distinct, 

 and again, on the same branch, confluent and united in a stroma 

 more or less evident ; now with hardly a trace of an ostiolum, and 

 again with a distinct cjdindric beak equalling in length one-fourth 

 or one-third the height of the perithecium itself. The various 

 forms, however, all agree in having normally a subcuticular origin, 

 on the surface of the inner bark, just beneath the epidermis, which 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



is soon ruptured with many small openings where the perithecia 

 are scattered, or with much larger gaps where several perithecia 

 more or less distinctly confluent, are grouped together. On peel- 

 ing oft" the epidermis, the perithecia are generally left adhering to 

 the inner bark, though in some cases where the cuticle is thick and 

 tough, as in the cherry, they adhere to the inner surface of the 

 cuticle itself. 



The mycelium which spreads over and penetrates the matrix 

 consists of variously branched and anastomosing dark brown 

 septate threads which are more luxuriant in proportion as the 

 substance of the matrix is of a soft and spongy nature. This 

 mycelium assumes at length a darker shade, so that the substance 

 of the bark -and the subjacent surface of the wood becomes finally 

 almost black. The perithecia are always filled at first with a 

 white grumous mass which is closely attached to the inclosing 

 walls, and from which are slowly developed the organs of fructi- 

 fication. The mature perithecia at length become black within, 

 and the upper portion breaks away, leaving the cup-shaped base 

 attached to the matrix. Having now for several years studied 

 these various forms I am satisfied that Sphseria Quercuum, Schw. 

 includes all the following so-called species, viz., Sphseria mutila, 

 Fr.; 1 S. ambigua, Schw.; S. Melise, Schw.; S. entaxia, C. & E. in 

 Grevillea, vol. 6, p. 14 ; S. eriostega, Id. ; 8. viscosa, Id., vol. 5, p. 

 34 ; S. erratica, Id., vol. 6, p. 95 ; S. thyoidea, Id., vol. 6, p. 14 ; 

 S. jn/riospora, Ell. Bull. Torr. Bot. Club, v. p. 46 ; Botryosphse- 

 ria pustulata, Sacc. Fungi Yeneti, Ser. IV. p. 3 ; Dothidea vene- 

 nata, C. & E. in Grev., vol. 5, p. 95 ; D. Cerasi, Id., vol 5, p. 34 ; 

 Thumenia Wisterias, Rehm in Mycotheca Universalis, No. 971; 

 (Melogramma Wisterias, Cke., Grev. vol. 7, p. 51), and probably 

 Sphseria Hibisci, Schw,; S. Persimmons, Schw.; and S. Gratseg,i 

 Schw. Valsa mahaleb, C. & E. in Grev., vol. 6, p. 11, is also, ac- 

 cording to my specimens, only the young and imperfectly developed 

 state of the same thing. Melogramma Aceris, C. & E., Grev., vol. 

 7, p. 8, is also, without much doubt, to be included in the above 

 list, though this species and S. eriostega, C. & E., are unknown to 

 me except from the descriptions in Grevillea. Of all the others I 



1 At least as that species is represented in Rav. Fungi Caroliniani Exsic- 

 cati, Fasc. III. No. 62. See also remark in Grevillea, vol. 4, p. 97, uuder 

 Melogramma Quercuum, Schw. 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1819. 



have examined authentic specimens, most of them in all stages of 

 growth. 



In all these different forms the character of the fructification is 

 the same, or at most there is only a slight variation in the size of 

 the asci and sporidia, so that from a microscopical examination 

 of the fruit alone it would be impossible to say to which of the 

 above species any particular specimen should be referred. This 

 similarity will be readily seen on examining the figures in Gre- 

 villea illustrating the species cited. All have the same broad 

 clavate, obtuse, stipitate asci which are often subject to a kind of 

 deformit}', being bent almost double. The paraphyses are simple 

 or sparingly branched, of a gelatinous nature, and, like the asci, 

 soon dissolved. 



The sporidia are two-ranked, mostly broad navicular, without 

 septa, hyaline or filled with granular matter mixed with oil glo- 

 bules and become at length brown. Some of the sporidia are of a 

 regularly elliptical shape; these are generally shorter and broader 

 while the navicular sporidia are often much longer and narrower. 

 The average size of the sporidia is about .03 mm long by ,013 mm 

 broad. In all the different forms the ascigerous perithecia are 

 accompanied by others producing stylospores of the Diplodia or 

 Sphseropxis type. (Sphseropsis fibriseda, C. & E , Grew 5, p. 89. 

 Diplodia thyoidea, C. & E., Grev. 5, p. 32.) These stylospores 

 never assume the navicular form, but are always regularly ellip- 

 tical, smaller than the ascospores, sub-hyaline and granular at first, 

 soon becoming brown. Other perithecia are filled with minute 

 hyaline oblong or subglobose micrpstylospores (spermatia) of 

 which Phoma fibriseda, C. & E., Grev. 6, p. 2, is an example. The 

 stylosporous perithecia may generally be distinguished from the 

 others by their short cylindric ostiola, which in the ascigerous 

 perithecia are oftener nearly obsolete. 



By referring to the description of Sphseria eriostega in Grev. 

 6, p. 14, it will be seen that mention is there made of certain 

 brown biseptate free spores, supposed to be ascospores. These 

 brown biseptate spores are found in all the aforesaid forms ; spa- 

 ring^ indeed for the most part, but always present and easily 

 recognized among the generally hyaline sporidia. I have never 

 seen these peculiar spores contained in asci, though I have exam- 

 ined during the past four years probably some hundreds of speci- 

 mens. I consider them however to be true sporidia, and have 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



supposed that the formation of septa is only the first step in the 

 process of germination; though unfortunately I can only conjec- 

 ture this, as the sporidia which I have tried to cultivate on slides 

 of moistened glass have thus far refused to germinate. 



From an examination of the above notes it will he seen that, 

 disregarding the somewhat variable ostiola, the various forms 

 above noted differ from each other only in the fact that in some 

 the perithecia are confluent and united in a partial stroma, while 

 in others they are scattered and without any distinct stroma. The 

 only question then is whether this variation alone is sufficient to 

 constitute a specific difference? Were this variability in the vege- 

 tative character accompanied by a corresponding variation in the 

 fruit, there "could be but one answer; but as has been already 

 stated, and as maybe seen by referring to the figures published in 

 Grevillea, and as 1 hope to show by the publication of actual 

 specimens in the North American Fungi, the fructification in all 

 these different forms is essentially the same. With just as much 

 reason might a specific distinction be made between the cluster of 

 culms sprung from a single grain of wheat planted in a good soil 

 and the single culm from another grain growing in a poorer soil. 

 This same variation in an allied species, Sphaeria gyrosa, Schw., 

 was not considered by Fries as by any means sufficient to war- 

 rant a specific distinction. In his Elenchus Fungorum, vol. ii. p. 

 84, under S. gyrosa, he says: " Erumpunt hoec tuberculosa com- 

 posita e rimis corticis Quercus ; sed in ligno decorticato, eadem 

 adest omnino simplex, conferta, subconfluens, punctiformis abs- 

 que stromate distincto ; singularis morphosis sed in hac tribu non 

 vara." These remarks apply as accurately, at least to the form 

 on- Bhus venenata,, i. e., to Dothidea venenata, C. & E., as if made 

 Avith reference to that particular case. If then these different 

 forms are to be united, it only remains to decide whether they are 

 to be referred to the genus Spheeria or to Melogramma or Dothi- 

 dea; or whether it would be better to follow 7 the example of some 

 of the transatlantic mycologists and create a new genus for this 

 particular case. But as the number of new genera, many of them 

 with characters sufficiently obscure, is every day increasing, it 

 would seem better to avoid this latter alternative. Throwing aside 

 next, in this case, the generic name of Sphseria, from which genus 

 the fungus under consideration may perhaps with propriety be 

 excluded on account of the peculiar character of its perithecia, 




70 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



there remains either Dothidea or Melogramma to be adopted. As 

 remarked in Grevillea, vol. 5, p. 34, under Dothidea Gerasi, C. & 

 E., that species is scarcely a good Dothidea for " the cells often 

 approximate to perithecia; this remark applies equally well to 

 Dothidea venenata, C. & E., and to all the other species enume- 

 rated. 



There remains the genus Melogramma, with the characters of 

 which our fungus, at least in its confluent forms, agrees suffi- 

 ciently well; nor are the varieties in which the perithecia are 

 scattered and single properly to be excluded. The fact that with 

 age the upper portion of the perithecium falls away, leaving the 

 base attached, shows that in every case there is at least the rudi- 

 ments of a stroma to which the basal portion of the perithecium 

 is permanently attached. A careful microscopic examination re- 

 veals the presence of this rudimentary stroma, formed from the 

 condensed fibres of the mycelium at those points where the peri- 

 thecia originate. Nor yet is the form of the sporidia inconsistent 

 with the characters given by Tulasne to the sporidia of his genus 

 Melogramma, viz.: " Sporre ssepius distichre, lineari-lanceolatae 

 vel ovatae et utrinque obtusissimaa, curvse rectseve, pluriloculares 

 aut continuae, fucatse, vel pallidas." The sporidia in our fungus 

 are not ovate it is true, but the elliptical form approaches so near 

 to that shape that it hardly seems best to exclude the species on 

 that account. 



According to Tulasne, I. c, and Fries, Elench. ii. p. 85, Sphse- 

 ria Quercuum, Schw. is the same as Sphseria fuliginosa, Pers., at 

 least as that species is represented in the Exsiccata of Mougeot 

 and Nestler, though Fries (1. c.) does not consider it the same as 

 the Sphseria fuliginosa of Persoon's Synopsis. Without under- 

 taking to determine whether the Sphseria Quercuum, Schw., is 

 really identical with the original Sphseria fuliginosa, Pers., we 

 are warranted in assuming on the aforesaid authority that it is 

 at least the same as the Sphseria fuliginosa of the Exsiccata of 

 Mougeot and Nestler, so that it will be proper to adopt '''fuligi- 

 nosa'''' as the specific name for our variable species, especially as 

 the specific name Quercuum, given by Schweinitz, is only appli- 

 cable to a single form. The name fuliginosa also is peculiarly 

 appropriate on account of the sooty color of the old mycelium. 

 If, then, the foregoing conclusions are correct, all the above-men- 

 tioned species should be reduced to one which it is proposed to 

 designate as Melogramma fuliginosa. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



ON THE NUDIBRANCHIATE GASTEROPOD MOLLUSCA OF THE NORTH 

 PACIFIC OCEAN, WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO THOSE OF ALASKA. 



BY DR. R. BERGH, COPENHAGEN. 



PART I. 



The fauna of the North Pacific in general has been but little 

 explored. The number of the so-called Nudibranchiate Gaste- 

 ropod Mollusca found in this region up to this time is rather 

 small. But a few species have been mentioned or described, chiefly 

 by Tilesius, Eschscholtz, and Gould, and the number of forms is 

 much smaller than that which is known from the North Atlantic 

 in the same latitudes. There does not, however, seem to be any 

 reason for a smaller number in the Pacific than in the Atlantic. 



Mr. Dall has been engaged since 1865 in prosecuting researches 

 in regard to the marine invertebrates of the region lying between 

 America and Asia, from latitude 50 to latitude 70 N., including 

 the coasts of Alaska, formerly Russian America, the Aleutian 

 Islands, Bering Sea and Strait, and a part of the Arctic Ocean 

 north of the strait. 



Mr. Dall kindly invited me, who during a series of years have 

 been engaged with studies upon Nudibranchiates, to examine and 

 describe the collections relating to this group ; these were received 

 in the summer of 1876. It has been necessary to include, for 

 comparison, the results of the examination of some few Atlantic 

 species. Dall did not give particular attention to the Nudi- 

 branchs ; yet, while a comparatively small number of forms and 

 specimens have been obtained during his cruises, the number 

 is sufficient to give some idea of the character of this particular 

 fauna and to enrich our knowledge of the groups with several 

 new forms. This will be obvious from the following list: 



o 



NUDIBRANCHIATA OF THE NORTH PACIFIC. 



1. Aeolidia papillosa (L.). 4. Flabellina iodinea (Cooper). 



2. Aeolidia (tw&v.) pacijica, Bergli, 5. Rermissenda opalescens 



n. sp. ? (Cooper). 



3. Goryphella, sp. 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



6. Fiona marina Forsk., var. Pa- 17. Acanthodoris pilosa (O. F. Miil- 



cifica, Bergh. ler), var. purpurea, Bergh. 



7. Dendronotus purpureus, Bergh, 18. Acanthodoris coerulescens, 



n. sp. Bergh, n. sp. 



8. Dendronotus Dalli, Bergh, n. sp. 19. Lamellidoris bilamellata (L.), 



9. T'ritonia tetraquetra (Pallas). var. pacifica, Bergh. 



10. Archidoris Mo titer eyensis 20. Lamellidoris varians, Bergh, n. 



(Cooper). sp. 



11. Diaulula Sandiegensis (Cooper). 21. Lamellidoris hystricina, Bergh, 



12. CadAinarepandu (Aid. &Hanc). n. sp. 



13. Cadlina pacifica, Bergh, n. sp. 22. Adalaria pacifica, Bergh, n. sp. 



14. Chromodoris Dalli, Bergh, n. 23. Adalaria virescens, Bergh, n. sp. 



sp. 24. Adalaria <ilbopapillosa (Dall). 



15. Chromodoris calif omiensis, 25. Akiodorislutescens, Bergh, n. sp. 



Bergh, n. sp. 26. Triopa modesta, Bergh, n. sp. 



16. Acanthodoris pilosa (0. F. Mill- 27. Polycera pallida, Bergh, u. sp. 



ler), var. albescens, Bergh. 



An examination of the foregoing list 1 first shows a quite northern 

 character of the forms examined, excepting the two species of 

 Doridee (Chromodoris) which actuallj r come from and are usually 

 characteristic of a more southern region than the others. Se- 

 condly, the species examined agree vyith North Atlantic forms, 

 being either identical or mere varieties of them, or at least nearly 

 allied species. 2 



AEOLIDIID^J. 



The Aeolidiidse' have representatives in all the seas of the world, 

 but seem, as far as can be judged from the rather meagre accounts 



1 Besides Nudibranchs, there were included in the material sent also a 

 Marsenia, an Onchidiopsis, a O aster opter on, three or four species of Bul- 

 lidce, and a Pleurobranchus, which will be published later. 



2 According to R. E. C. Stearns a striking feature in the conchological 

 fauna of that part of the Pacific coast included in the Californian and Ore- 

 gonian zoological provinces, when compared with the molluscan fauna of 

 the Atlantic coast from the Arctic seas to Georgia, is the preponderance in 

 the former of those forms of molluscan life -which are embodied in the 

 Scutibranchiata; cf. Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., Oct. 1872, and Ann. Mag. Nat. 

 Hist., 4th ser., xii. pp. 185-186, 1873. 



3 The generic name (Aeolus Virgil) was established by Cuvier (in the 

 Tabl. Elem. p. 388, 1798), and originally written " Aeolide (Aeolidia) ;" 

 on the fifth plate of the illustrations of the Lee, d'anat. comp., vol. i., it is 

 written Folia; later, in the Regne Animal e, he changed the denomination 

 to Eolidia, since then the name has been written Eolis, Sofa's (Lam'k, Loven, 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



of them, to be less abundantly distributed through the warm and 

 tropical regions. This seems evident from the information given 

 by Van Hasselt, Kelaart, Alder and Hancock, Collingwood and 

 Pease, as well as by Semper. 1 Tan Hasselt has only three forms 

 of Aeolidiidse, Elliott (Alder and Hancock) four or five, Kelaart 

 nine. Collingwood was rather astonished at the small number of 

 species and individuals which were found on the coasts of China: 

 Formosa, Labuan, and Singapore, and which included no Aeoli- 

 diidse at all. The Pacific seems especially poor in Aeolidiidse, 

 particularly in its northern and eastern part. The exploration 

 of Alaska, under the direction of Mr. W. H. Dall, has only fur- 

 nished five or six forms of this group belonging to the genera 

 Aeolidia, Fiona, Coryphella, Flo.bellina, an d- Hermissenda. 



I. AEOLIDIA, Cuvier. 



Aeolidiana Quatrefages, Ann. Sci. Nat. Zool., Ser. i, t. iii. p. 134, 1844. 

 Aeolidia (Cuvier), R. Bergk, Anat. Bidr. til Kundsk. om Aeolidierne, 



Danske Vidsk. Selsk. Skr. 5 R. vii. 1864, p. 199. 

 Aeolidia, R. Bergh, Beitr. zur Kenntn. der Aeolidiaden, I. Verh. der R 



K. zool.-bot. Ges. in Wien, xxiii., 1873, pp. 618-620; ii. 1. c. xxiv. 1874, 



pp. 395-396. 



Corpus sat depressum, rhinophoria simplicia, papilla? 2 caducse, 

 compressae. Podarium antice angulatum mandibular applanatae, 

 processu masticatorio non denticulato. Radula dentibus uniseri- 

 atis, regulariter arcuatis, pectiniformibus instructa. 



This genus is easil}' distinguished by its depressed form, the 

 simple rhinophoria, the flattened papilla?, and the straight front 

 margin of the foot, with nearly rounded edges. The mandibles 

 are rather short, very much flattened, the cutting edges simple ; 



Mcnke), Eolida, Eolidia, and Aeolidia by different authors. It may be 

 best, as I have done for many years, to adhere to the original Cuvierian 

 way of writing it. Cf. my Unders. af Fiona atlantica, Natur. Hist. Foren. 

 Vdsk. Meddel. for 1857, p. 276, 1858. 



1 Cf. my Malacol. Untersuch. (Semper, Reisen ira Archipel. der Philip- 

 pines II. ii.) Heft 1, 1870, p. 1. 



2 I always use the term papilla instead of the more usual one of brancliw 

 or cirrhi, partly because it is the Linnean term, partly because the organs 

 do not exclusively serve for respiration, which is partaken of by the whole 

 surface of the skin, that over the papilla? as well as elsewhere, among all 

 the N udilranchiata. 



6 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



the teeth of the radula comb-shaped, not emarginated in the mid- 

 dle. The genus is unarmed. 



The spawn of the typical species is known, 1 and something of 

 the development. 



Only a few species of this genus are hitherto known, and very 

 likely the Pacific forms will not prove specifically distinct from 

 the typical species, which is found widely spread over the northern 

 part of the Atlantic, on the coasts of America as well as of 

 Europe. 



1. Aeolidia papillosa (L.). 



Gould, Inv. Mass., ed. Binney, p. 240, PL XVIII. f. 258, 1870. 

 Meyer and Mobius, Fauna der Kieler Bucht, I. p. 29, f. 9, 10, 1865. 



Hab. Oc. Atlant. septentr. 



2. Aeolidia serotina, Bergh. 



R. Bergh, Beitr. zur Kennt. der Aeolidiaden ; Verb, der K. K. Zool- 

 bot. Ges. in Wien, xxiii. 1873, p. 619. 



Hab. Oc. Atlant. septentr. 

 1. Aeolidia papillosa (L.). 



Hab. Oc. Pacificum (Sanborn Harbor, Nagai, Shumagin Islands, 

 Alaska Territory). 



Only one specimen of this species was taken by Ball in July, 

 1872, in Sanborn Harbor (Shumagin Isl.) at low water on rocky 

 bottom. 



According to Dall the color of the living animal was j'ellowish- 

 white ; the color of the animal preserved in spirits was also uni- 

 formly 3 r ello\vish-white. The length was about 15.0 mm., with a 

 breadth of body of 9.0 and a height of 5.0 mm., the breadth of 

 the foot 5.5, the length of the papilla? 4.5, the length of the rhino- 

 phoria and of the tentacles about 2.0 mm. 



The form of the (rather contracted) animal was nearly that of 

 the Ae. papillosa, in general and in most particulars ; the papillae 

 were set in very many oblique rows, closely crowded. 



The central nervous system showed the cerebro-visceral ganglia 

 rather elongated, the pedal ones of rounded form, more than half 

 as large as the former; the subcerebral, the pedal, and the visceral 

 commissures as usual, the latter with the N. genitalis. The buc- 

 cal ganglia elongate, of nearly semi-oval form, the commissure 



1 Alder and Hancock, Mon. Brit. Nud. Moll., Part VI., fam. 3, pi. 9, f. 6. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



between them short, equalling about one-sixth of the longitudinal 

 diameter of the ganglion; the gastro-cesophageal ganglia nearly 

 one-sixth of the buccal ones in size, with one very large and two 

 rather large cells, their stalk a little longer than the commissure 

 between the buccal ganglia. 



The eye has quite black pigment, and a yellowish lens. The 

 otocyst is situated some distance behind the eye, and is filled 

 with otoconia of the usual kind. 



The bulbus pharyngeus is of the usual size, about 5.0 mm. long, 

 3.0 mm. broad, 3.5 mm. high ; its form is as usual. The jaws ex- 

 actly as in the typical Ae. papillosa. The radula contained thir- 

 teen teeth, beside seven mature and two immature teeth in the 

 sheath, twenty-two altogether. The anterior plate was about 0.25 

 mm. broad, the posterior one about 0.75 mm.; yellowish horn 

 colored ; there were thirty-two denticles on the former and forty- 

 two on the latter. 

 2. Aeolidia papillosa, var. Pacifica, PI. I. f. 1-6. 



Colore e flavido albescens. 



Hab. Oc. Pacific septentr. (Chignik Ba}% Aliaska Pen.). 



Three specimens of this form were taken b} r Dall on mud flats 

 at low water in Chignik Bay, Aliaska, July, 1874. 



According to Dall the color of the living animal was pale yel- 

 lowish-white. 



The alcoholic specimens were all of nearly the same size, about 

 20.0 mm. long, 7-8.0 mm. broad, and 6-6.5 mm. high. The tenta- 

 cles and rhinophoria measured about 2.0 mm. in length, the papillae 

 of the back reached 3.0 mm. in length, and the breadth of the foot 

 5.0 mm. The color was yellowish-white, the papillae a little gray- 

 ish, and generally with white points. The viscera were not visible 

 through the side walls of the bod}-. 



The form of the animal was typical, somewhat depressed ; the 

 head rather large, the tentacles short and strong, stronger than 

 the rhinophoria, the eyes not visible through the wall of the back. 

 The foot was rather large, somewhat pointed behind, the anterior 

 margin straight, with a veiy distinct transverse groove. The sides 

 of the body rather elevated, with the genital papilla beneath the 

 eighth and tenth row of papilla:'. The back was naked in its 

 broadest part; in the much narrower side parts covered with 

 closely set oblique rows of papillae, which, on the hindmost parti 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



cover the back entirely. The number of rows was about twenty- 

 five to thirty-two, the foremost shorter, with about seven to nine 

 papillre;. the hindmost the shortest, with about three to four 

 papillae, the rest longer and much more oblique, with about twelve 

 to thirteen papillae. The papillae flattened, quite as in other true 

 Aeolidise. The anus is between the outer part of two rows behind 

 the middle of the back (at about the thirteenth or fifteenth row). 

 The intestines were seen very distinctly shining through the wall 

 of the back. 



The cerebro-visceral ganglia were somewhat elongated, reniform, 

 thinner and broader in the fore part, thicker in the hindest part; 

 the pedal ones rounded, triangular, as thick as the confining part 

 of the visceral ganglia. The buccal ganglia were about one- 

 quarter of the size of the pedal ones ; the gastro-oesophageal 

 ganglia rounded, about one-quarter of the size of the buccal ones, 

 with three large cells. 



The eye was furnished with black pigment and yellow lens. 

 The otocysts could not be found. 



The buccal tube short, rather wide, with strong longitudinal 

 folds on the inside. The bulbus pharyngeus rather short, some- 

 what compressed ; in length about 3.5 mm. by a height of 2.75, 

 and a breadth of about 2.0 mm. The form-relations for the rest 

 quite as in the Aeolidia serotina (cf. 1. c). The mandibles (fig. 1) 

 were very strong, flattened, yellowish, or brownish-yellow ; the 

 articulation strongly developed, on the anterior outer side some- 

 what twisted, slightly bilobed ; the keel on the inside (crista con- 

 nectiva) short, somewhat prominent (fig. la); the cutting blades 

 (processus masticatorius) rather prominent (fig. 16), the margin 

 with very fine longitudinal lines (fig. 2). The tongue rather 

 short and strong (on the under side, the end, and the upper side), 

 with 13 plates, under the narrow tectum radulse and further back- 

 ward in the sheath {vagina, pulpa radulse) seven developed and 

 two immature teeth ; the total number of teeth was twenty-two. 

 The plates similar in form (fig. 3, 4) to those of the two other 

 species ; light brown-yellowish ; on each side of the nearly imper- 

 ceptible median impression and prominence in the foremost 

 plates thirteen, in the hindmost as many as seventeen lancet- 

 formed denticles ; the breadth of the foremost teeth was about 

 0.3 mm.; of the hindmost nearly 0.68 mm. 



The salivary glands were as in the typical form. 




L879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. IT 



The oesophagus, the stomach, the biliary duets, and the intestine, 

 as in other species; the stomach on each side receiving a biliary 

 duct, and the posterior chief duct receiving from each side three 

 strong and one to two finer ducts; the length of the intestine was 

 about 9.0 mm., with fine longitudinal folds along the inside. The 

 liver papillae (in the dorsal papillae) rather nodose. The bursa 

 cnidojjhora in the largest papillae measured one-seventh to one- 

 eighth of the length of the papilla, containing a mass of cnidse, 

 elongate-pyriform or staff-shaped, reaching 0.026 mm. in length 

 (fig. 6). 



The heart and renal syrinx as usual. 



The hermaphroditic gland is large and yellowish, of the usual 

 structure ; in the centre of the zoospermic lobules were oogene 

 cells in peripheral nodosities. The anterior genital mass short 

 and clumsy, about 5 to 6.0 mm. long by 2.5 to 3.0 mm. broad, and 

 4 to 4.5 mm. high. The gl. mucosa and albwminifera white and 

 whitish. The vas deferens (fig. 5a) yellowish, very long, rolled 

 up in a tight coil on the fore end of the genital mass ; the penis 

 (retracted) short, bag-shaped, about 2 mm. long, nearly filled by 

 the conical glans (fig. 5), through the whole length of which the 

 continuation of the sperm duct could be traced. 



There was a peculiar aspect in the interior of this Aeolidia (as 

 well as in the Ae. serotina.) as far as observations on alcoholic 

 specimens go, which seemed to indicate a possible specific differ- 

 ence from the typical Ae. papUlosa, although the anatomical ex- 

 amination could not bring out any very reliable specific characters. 



II. CORYPHELLA, Gray. 



CorypJiella, Gray, Figures of Moll. Anim, iv. 1850, p. 109. Gray, Guide, i. 

 1857, p. 224. Alder and llanc. Monogr., Part VII. 1855, p. 49 ; Ap- 

 pendix, p. xxii. R. Bergh, Anat. Bidr. til Kundsk. orn Aeolid., 1. 

 c., 1804, p. 226. R. Bergh, Beitr. zur Kenntn. d. Aeolidiaden. iii., 

 1. c xxv. 1875, p. 633. 



Corpus elongatum, Rhinophoria simplicia. Podarium antice 

 angulatum vel angulis productis. 



Processus masticatorius mandibulse seriebus denticulorum prae- 

 ditus. Radula dentibus triseriatis ; dentes laterales margine 

 supero (interno) denticulati. Penis inermis. 



The genus contains Aeolidiidse. of an elongated form, with 

 simple rhinophoria and with the anterior margin of the foot 




73 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



angulated or with the angles rather produced. The edge of the 

 cutting-blades of the mandibles with several rows of knobs or 

 denticles. The lateral plates of the tongue have the superior 

 (interior) margin not smooth (as in the Galvinas) but denticu- 

 lated. The penis is unarmed. 



In my last memoir upon this genus, to which the reader is re- 

 ferred, 1 have given a list of nineteen species which seem to belong 

 to this genus. Four of them are from the Pacific ocean. 



1. C. Foidisi (Angas). 3. C. parvula (Angas). 



2. G. semidecora (Angas). 4. G. athadona, Bergh. 



1. Coryphella, sp. Pi. I f. 13-14; PI II. f. 7-8. 



Bab. M. Pacif. (Ins. Aleut.). 



Only the bulbus pharyngeus of this form has been found by 

 Pall in dredging at Adakh Island (Aleutians) in mud, at a 

 depth of 9-16 fathoms, in June, 1873. 



The lenp-th of the o reran was 5.0 mm., with a height of 4.0 and 



Oct D 



a breadth of 5.0 mm. ; the form short, much broader in the hind- 

 most part; the radula sheath a little prominent behind the buccal 

 ganglia. The labial disk of usual oval form ; l the greatest part of 

 the bulbus covered" by the mandibles; the m. transv. sup rather 

 large. The mandibles (fig. 7) large, nearly as long and as high 

 as the bulbus, of yellow horn-color; the articulation rather small 

 (Fig. 7) ; the edges of the cutting blades with 4 to 6 (fig. 8, 13) 

 rows of low knobs, which on the anterior margin, except in the 

 uppermost parts of the cutting blade, rise to denticles of the 

 height of 0.1 mm. The tongue rather short; on the upper side 

 nine rows of plates, further backwards seven rows of developed 

 and two of not quite developed teeth; the total number of rows was 

 eighteen. The teeth as usual of horn-yellow color, very strong ; 

 the breadth of the foremost medial ones about 0.16, of the hindmost 

 0.25 mm. The medial ones with five to seven denticles on each side 

 of the strong point (fig. 14) ; the lateral ones with a long point, 

 and five to six denticles on the inside at the base (tig. 14 aa). 



The cerebro-visceral ganglia short, reniform, somewhat broader 

 at the anterior end ; the pedal ganglia rounded, scarcely smaller 

 than the former. The buccal ganglia are of oval form, about one- 



1 In the mouth, half banging out, was found a fine Caprella, the body 

 having the length of 6 mm. 




18*79.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 19 



third the size of the pedal ones, the commissure between them 

 measuring about one-third the length of each ganglion. 



III. FLABELLINA, Cuvier. 



Fldbettina, Cuvier, Regne An. ed. ii a , 1830, iii. p 55. Alder and Hancock, 

 Mon., Part VII. p. xxi. 1855. Trinchese, Rendic. della Acad, della 

 Sci. di Bologna, 7, 1874. R. Bergh, Beitr. znr Kenntn. d. Aeolidi- 

 aden, hi., Verb. d. K. K. Zool.-bot. Ges. in Wien, xxv. p. 647, 1875. 



Corpus sat elongatum, subcompressum. Rhinophoria perfo- 

 liata. Papillae (dorsales) non caducse, pedamentis brachioformibus 

 insertse. Podarium angulis tentaculatim productis. 



Margo masticatorius mandibular seriebus denticulorum prse- 

 ditus. Radula triseriata, dentibus medianis denticulati, latera- 

 libus interno margine denticulatis. Penis stylo armatus. 



As for the history of the denomination of this genus the reader 

 must be referred to my above cited paper. The Flabellinse have 

 nearest relation to the CalmseJ but differ by the perfoliate rhino- 

 phoria and in the denticulation of the lateral teeth. They show 

 an elongate, somewhat compressed form of the body ; perfoliated 

 rhinophoria; dorsal papillae caducous, inserted upon arm-shaped 

 foot-stalks the foot with produced anterior angles. The cutting 

 edges of the jaws with rows of small denticles. The tongue with 

 three series of teeth ; the median denticulated in the usual way, 

 the lateral ones only on the inner edge. The penis with a stylus 

 (as in the Calmse). 



To this genus belong: 



1. F. affinis (Gin.), Bergh, 1. c. p. 649, Taf. XV. f. 6-19; Taf. XVI. 1. 



3-4. M. Medit. 



2. F.flabellina (Ver.), M. Medit. 



3. F ianthina, Angas, M. Pacificum. 



4. F. ornata, Angas, M. Pacificum. 



5. F. JSfewcombi, Angas, M. Pacificum. 



6. F. iodinea (Cooper), M. Pacific, orient. 



1. Flabellina iodinea (Cooper), Plate I. f. 15 to 17; Plate II. f. 16. 



Aeolis (Phidiana?) iodinea, Cooper, Proc. Calif. Acad. ii. 1862, p. 

 205 ; 2 iii. 1863, p. 60. 



1 Cf. my above cited paper, 1. c. p. 643. 



2 "Rich, violet purple, narrow, wedge-sbaped, high in front, tapering to 

 an acute point behind, slightly constricted in five parts of the body corre- 

 sponding to divisions of the brauchise. Foot very narrow, slightly expanded. 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



Pliidiana iodinea, Cooper, Bergh, Beitr. zur Kenntn. d. Aeolidiaden, 

 i., 1. c. xxiii. p. 015,' 1873. 



Color corporis e violaceo purpureus, rhinophoria aurantiaca, 

 papillae aurantiace-rubra (Cooper). 



Dentes mediani siout laterales, multidenticulati. 



Eab. Ocean, pacific, orient. (San Diego, Cal. to Pnget Sound.) 



A single specimen was collected by Capt. Hall alive, on alga?, 

 at low water in Puget Sound, Washington Territory, Aug. 1813. 

 According to Cooper (1. c. p. 205) the species is found " among 

 alga?, outside of San Diego Bay, rarely inside." According to 

 Cooper's description and a drawing kindly lent by Dall, the color 

 of the living animal is violet purple, the rhinophoria orange 

 colored, the papillae orange-red. 



The length of the individual (most badly) conserved in spirits 

 was about 15.0 mm., with a breadth of the body of 2.0, and a height 

 of 2.5 mm.; the length of the papilla? reaching to about 4.0 mm.; 

 the length of the tentacula about 1.5 of the rhinophoria, about 2.3 

 mm. The color rather dirty chocolate. 



The ybr?n is elongated, rather compressed, the tail rather short. 

 The head rather small, the tentacula elongate, also the apparently 

 closely perforated rhinophoria. The back rather narrow; the 

 groups of papilla? situated on the side parts of it, firmly affixed 

 on the edge of foot-stalks, whose form and number could not be 

 determined, owing to the state of the specimen ; their number 

 seemed to be much greater than referred to by Cooper. The foot 

 rather narrow, the angles of the foremost margin much produced, 

 longer than the tentacula, strong; the groove in the anterior mar- 

 gin continued along the angles. 



The eyes are rather large, with black pigment. 



The jaws more rounded at the posterior end than in the Fl. affinis 

 (1. c. PI. XV. f. 13), otherwise as in that species; the cutting edge 

 witli several rows of small rounded denticles (fig. 15). The state 



Head obtuse, with four tentacles, the upper longer and turned upwards, the 

 lower deflexed. Two club-shaped, orange-colored appendages a little be- 

 hind the upper tentacles. Branchiae short, in a double row, close together 

 near the median line, their color orange-red. Length two and a half inches, 

 breadth one-fifth of an inch." Cooper, 1. c. 



' The "descriptions" of Cooper are of the kind which have caused so 

 much confusion in science, so light and trifling that there properly should 

 no notice at all be taken of them. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



of the specimen examined 1 did not permit the determination of 

 the number of plates of the tongue and the posterior continuation 

 of the radnla. The median plates (PI. II. tig. 10a) with a greater 

 number of denticles, mostly with about 12-13; the lateral ones 

 with a rather produced outer limb (fig. 166, PI. I. figs. 16, 17), 

 the inner edge with a rather great number of (about 25-27) fine 

 denticles. 



As far as could be determined, a Penis-style existed, as it 

 seemed, of about the same form as in Fl. affinis (cf. 1. c. PI. XVI. 

 f. 3, 4). 



IV. HERMISSENDA, Bgh. 



Hermiwenda, Bgh., Beitr. zur Kenntn. den Aeolidiaden, vi. ; Verh. d. K. 

 K Zool.-bot. Ges. iu Wien. xxviii. 1878, p. 573. 



Corpus gracilins elongatum. Rhinophoria perfoliata, tentacula 

 elongata. Papillae dorsales in series obliquas et transversas con- 

 fertas areis prsesertim compluribus collatas dispositse. Poda- 

 rium antice angulis elongatis. 



Margo masticatorius mandibulse singula serie denticulorum 

 praeditus. Radula dentibus uniseriatis, denticulis elongatis prae- 

 ditis et cuspide infra serrulata. Penis inermis. 



In many respects this new genus seems to agree with the Phi- 

 dianse, as far as these are now known. 2 The general form of the 

 body, the rhinophoria and the tentacula are as in that genus, also 

 perhaps the disposition of the dorsal papillae. But the Hermis- 

 sendse differ in the rather produced angles of the front of the foot, 

 in the form of the teeth of the tongue, but especially in the want 

 of a hook on the penis. 



The body is rather elongated, slender The rhinophoria are 

 perfoliate, the tentacula long. The dorsal papillae seems to be 

 arranged in oblique and transverse rows, which form several more 

 or less separated groups. The angles of the front of the foot are 

 rather elongated. 



The cutting edge of the jaws has a single row of strong pointed 

 denticles. The teeth are in a single series ; each tooth with five 



1 The individual seemed to have been found dry in the glass and put in 

 new alcohol in such a state. Even the outer form could not be determined 

 before the specimen was softened. 



2 R. Bergh, Neue Beitr! zur Kenntniss der Aeolidiaden. I. Verh. d. K. 

 K. Zool.-bot. Ges. in Wien. xxiii. 1873, pp. 613-618. 




89 PRO0BKDINQ6 01 PHI A.0ADBM1 01 [18t9. 



denticulations on the under s i . 1 o of the trigonal point and long 

 denticles of the outting edge at the base of the point. The penis 

 is unarmed. 

 Only one species of the group is hitherto known. 



1. Hov.v.'.ssov. S "' Plftta 1 |g 9\ PI. II. f. 1-6. 



-. Coop* :. Proc ( . \ 

 60, IS 



- B _':>.. I. c 



Color corporis e caerulescente albescens, pellucidus; rhic 

 phoria opalina, nucha stria longitudinali aurantiaca; papilla? 

 lutescentes, apice purpurascenti. 



Uab. San Diego Bay, Cala. to Sitka, Alaska Territory. 



s sp es IVill found two living specimens S : ka. on 

 alga? at a depth of 6-10 fathoms, Aug. I8lh, l> 



Ch -.-w "this elegant - -'* numerous in the San Di< g 



Bay in the winter, living among s g ssand u dep - 



\ fixed object it meets with." 

 Recording to C 's des on and di _s kind' 



j Pall the living- animal is nearly transparent, bluish-w 

 rhinophoria of orange stripe 1 



them: the '; - .-. purple or bio 



ad. Pall a s the anims s, , as len- 



with the species gh 1 



re. rather different from 

 For these sk 3 1 r is 



ss>gn a, much paler under - . le rhiuoph 



- g through the papilla?. 



s 



ges 



. 3 



Lrosy - string shining 



Pr. C 



( & ^ 




18*79.]] NATURAL SniENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



on the lateral part of the back along the papillae yellow vessels 

 (hepatic ducts?) shining through the walls of the back. Accord- 

 ing to Cooper the length of the living animal reaches about one 

 and a half inch. Hall's specimens were only about seven lines in 

 length. 



The length of the individuals preserved in spirits was about 

 12. 5-1:5.0 mm. by :i breadl h of I -4.5, and a height <>(' :; 4.25 nun. ; 

 the length of the tentacula was about 2.5-3.0, of the rhinophoria 

 2.5 mm., that of the papillae reaching 4.0 mm.; the breadth of the 

 front part of the foot 4.0 mm.; the length of the produced angles 

 about 2 mm. The color was uniformly brownish-white ; the intes- 

 tines nowhere shining through the skin. 



The head is rather large, the tentacles long and strong, the oral 

 aperl lire as usual ; the rhinophoria are strong, the club with about 

 twenty to twenty-five leaves. The hack is rather broad; the pa- 

 pillae set in transverse or oblique rows, that were; crowded in 

 about four groups. The first group of papilla- is the largest of 

 all, compressed horse-shoe shaped, with about five to seven 

 oblique rows in the foremost, and four to live in the hindmost 

 limb; the number of papillae in the rows seemed not to surpass 

 ten or twelve. The second group had about six to seven oblique 

 rows; the number of papillae in the rows seemed not to exceed 

 eight or nine. The spaee between the first and second groups 

 was larger than that between the second and third, in the upper- 

 most, part of the latter space is the rather prominent, goblet- 

 formed or more applauafe anal papillae; more forward and down- 

 ward was the renal pore, which in one individual was rather 

 prominent. The Hard group on one (right) side composed of 

 several (five to seven), on the other of fewer (three to four) 

 rows, but never very distinct from the fourth group, which had 

 about ten to fourteen densely set rows, which by degrees decrease 

 in size backwards and cover the whole of the rest of I he side parts 

 of the back; sometimes the rows of this fourth group stand in 

 pairs; the innermost parts of the rows are separated by very nar- 

 row spaces. 1 The papillae conical, somewhat contracted in the 

 inferior parts. The sides not low; the genital papillae in the usual 



1 The state of conservation of the individuals did not permit, are to ascer- 

 tain the relations of the groups and the rows with full certainty, so much 

 the more as the greater part of the papilla- bad dropped off. 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [IS79. 



place (under the region between the two extremities of the first 

 group of papilhe), contracted. The foot is strong, broader than 

 the back, the muzzle rather broad and produced into angles ante- 

 riorly ; their length about one-third of the breadth of the foot; 

 the groove of the anterior margin is continued along the margin 

 of the angles, the tail measuring about a third of the whole length 

 of the foot. 



The cerebro- visceral ganglia are rather short, not much larger 

 than the short pyriform pedal ganglia. 



The buccal ganglia are rounded, connected by a commissure 

 which is a little longer than the diameter of the ganglia. The 

 gastro-cesophageal ganglia are not long-stalked and have about 

 0.18 of the size of the last mentioned, with one large and two 

 rather large cells. 



m 



The eye has black pigment and yellowish lens. Immediately 

 behind the eye is the otocyst, scarcely larger than the eye, with 

 thirty-five to forty-five otoconia of the usual form. The rhino- 

 phoria are as in related forms of AeoUdiidse. 



The bulbus pharyngeus is shaped as usual, and is from 2.75 

 mm. to 4.5 mm. in length. The jaws (fig. 9), as commonly 

 among the Phidianse are yellowish-horn colored. The articula- 

 tion (fig. 9a) is rather small; the cutting blades arched (fig. 96) 

 their edges with a series of about fifty strong, sharp pointed 

 denticles (fig. 10), the uppermost short (fig. 10a), by degrees in- 

 creasing in size to about the length of O.Ofi mm.; the hindmost 

 are serrulate (fig. 106) on the posterior margin. The accessory 

 buccal cavity behind the articulation of the jaw rather large, and 

 filled with indeterminate animal matter. 



The radula is rather long and keel-shaped, the edge nearly 

 covered with twelve to fifteen teeth; behind these are eight to 

 eleven developed and two not quite developed; the total number 

 about twenty-five. The color of the teeth horn}--yellow r ish or 

 more brownish ; the height of the oldest about 0.09, of the } T oung- 

 est 0.16 mm.; the length of the basal part reaching 0.3 mm.; the 

 form (fig. 11, one to four) nearly as in the Coryphellse, but the 

 denticles (four to six on each side) longer and more slender and 

 (what hitherto scarcely has been observed in any form of the 

 group of AeoUdiidse) the trigonal points of the teeth are finely 

 denticulated on the under margin (fig. 11, one to four). 



The oesophagus is short. The stomach has rather strong folds. 




1879] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



The intestines are rather short, with a strong longitudinal fold 

 through its first half, with many fine longitudinal folds in the 

 anal papilla?. In the digestive channel were stems of Hydroidse 

 and different forms of Biatomacea?. 



The liver papilla? have a rather smooth surface. The bursse 

 cnidophorse rather short, pyriform, with masses of small cnidse 

 (fig. 12), partly of oval form and generally measuring in length 

 about 0.013 mm., partly shorter, staff-shaped, and rarely surpass- 

 ing the length of about 0.01-0.07 mm. 



The hermaphroditic gland is very 'large, the lobes and lobules 

 as usual; in the centre of the last were zoosperms; in the peri- 

 pheric (fig. 5) acini (which in very different numbers cover the 

 central part) were oogene cells. The anterior genital mass was 

 large, 2.2 to 4 mm., with a breadth of 1.2 to 2.75, and a height of 

 1.2 to 3 mm. ; the whole, in great part formed by the gland, mucosa 

 et albuminosa. 



The Spermatotheca seemed rather peculiar; it was sac-shaped, 

 rather short, and short-stalked ; the free end of the vas deferens 

 was only two or three times as long as the penis, somewhat 

 thicker in the middle, strong, continued (fig. 6a) through the 

 whole length of the penis. The retracted glans penis in its sheath 

 (fig. 6bb) which had a length of about 3.5 mm., as also the glans, 

 which was strong, short, sausage-shaped, with a round opening at 

 the end (fig. 6c). A layer of rather short sacculate glands filled 

 the end of the penis around the orifice. One of the drawings re- 

 presents the spawn of Ae. opalescens as a rather long corkscrew- 

 shaped coil of reddish hue. 



V. FIONA, Hanc. et Embleton. 



Fiona, H. et E. Forbes and Hanley, Brit. Moll., iii. 1853, p. x. Aid. and 

 Hanc, Monogr. Brit, Nudibr. Moll., Part VII., 1855, pp. 52, 53, fam. 

 3, PI. 38. R. Bergh, anatora. Unders. af Fiona atlant. Vdsk. Med- 

 del. fra naturh. Foren, i Kjobenliavn for 1857, pp. 273-337 (279-283 !), 

 1858, Tab. II.-III. R. Bergh, Contrib. to a Monogr. of the Gen. 

 Fiona, H., 2 w. pi. Copenhagen, 1859. R. Bergh, Journ. d. Mus. 

 Godef. 2te Heft, 1873, pp. 80-88, Tab. XII. fig. 4, 5. R. Bergh, Beitr. 

 zur Kenutn. der Aeolidiaden, I ; Verb. d. K. K. Zool.-bot. Ges. in 

 Wien, xxiii. 1873, pp. 605-610. V, 1. c, xxvii. 1877, pp. 823-824. 



Hymenaeolis, F. Costa, Annuario del Mus. zool. di Napoli, iii., 1866, pp. 64, 

 80 j iv. 1867, p. 28. 



Rhinophoria et tentacula subsimilia, simplicia. Papilla? (dor- 

 sales) cuti firmius afflxa?, elongata?, ab membranam branchialem 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



quasi alatse, bursa cnulophora nulla. Anus dorsualis dextrorsum, 

 apertura genitalis gemina. Mandibulse cymbiolatse, processu mas- 

 ticatorio breviore subhamato, margine masticatorio sat grosse den- 

 ticulate Lingua elongata, compressa, serie dentium unica ; dentes 

 arcuati, cruribus augustis, acie cuspide proininulo et utrinque 

 denticalis compluribus. 



For the general characters of the genus the reader is referred 

 to my monograph (1857) and to the above cited publications 

 (1873). 



The animals are pelagic, but few species are yet known, which 

 besides are not well distinguished, and may perhaps prove to be- 

 long to one circumaequatorial and cosmopolitan form. 



They are: 



1. F. marina (Forsk.) M. Atlant. mediterr. 



2. F. pinnata (Eschsch. ) M. Pacific, sept. 



Bergh, 1. c. xxiii. p. 606, 1873. 



3. F. longicauda (Quoy and Gaim.) M. Pacificum. 



4. F. ? alba (Van Hasselt) M. Indicum. 



I. Fiona marina (Forsk.), var. parifica Bergh. Plate I. fig. 7-8. 

 Limax marina, Fiirskal. 

 Fiona nob His, Hancock and Embleton, 1. c. 

 Fiona atlantica, Bergh, 1. c. 

 Hymenaeolis elegantissima, A. Costa, 1. c. 



Color caerulescente-purpureus (Dall). 



Hab. Oc. Pacificum, Atlanticum, Mediterraneum. 



A single individual of this species was taken by Dall in 1873, 

 in the open sea five hundred miles west of San Francisco, Cali- 

 fornia, feeding on Yelellse. 



According to Dall the color of the living animal was blue pur- 

 ple {like Janthina communis ; D.). 



The individual, not too well preserved in spirits, was about 

 12.0 mm. long, 5.5 high, and 6.0 mm. wide in the broadest part. 

 The front of the foot was 3.75 mm. broad, the tentacles 1.0 mm. 

 long, the rhinophoria 1.25 mm., the papillae of the back 2.5 mm. 

 The color (in spirits) light yellowish-brown, the viscera indis- 

 tinctly perceptible through the walls of the body. 



The form of the body was rather stout; 1 the head flattened, 

 rather broad, broader than tentacles, 2 which are pointed and some- 



1 Cf. 1. c, 1858, Tab. I. f. 1. 2 cf. 1. c, 1858, Tab. I. f. 1-2. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



what flattened. The rhinophoria are smooth, scarcely longer than 

 the tentacles. The eyes are not visible externally. The back 

 throughout its whole length naked on the broader middle part; 

 laterally closely set with oblique rows of papillae, 1 about seven to 

 eight in each row, fewer in the fore and hindmost rows; the pa- 

 pillae conical, somewhat compressed, particularly in the inferior 

 parts, with the usual gill-membrane along the inner edge. 8 The 

 anus in the usual place. The sides of the body rather high, the geni- 

 tal openings quite contracted. The foot in the foremost part rather 

 broad, anteriorly rounded ; backwards gradually narrower, the 

 margins projecting a little from the sides; the tail rather short 

 (about 1.5 mm. long), merely projecting a little behind the body. 



The central nervous system is of the usual form, 3 rather flat- 

 tened ; the cerebro-visceral ganglia rounded, triangular, the pedal 

 ones a little larger, of oval form, the buccal and gastro-cesophageal 

 ganglia as usual. 



The eye is as usual, with black pigment, and with a rather large 

 lens. The otocysts could not be detected. 



The oral tube (retracted) about 1.5 mm. long, rather wide. The 

 oral glands 4 long as usual, opening in the oral tube ; whitish. The 

 bulbus pharyngeus 3.0 mm. long, with a breadth of about 1.8 mm., 

 as formerly described. 5 The mandibles also quite as in the typical 

 form. 6 The tongue long and narrow, as in the last ; 7 on the under 

 side twelve, on the end two, and on the upper side twelve teeth ; 

 also in the sheath of the radula eleven developed teeth and two 

 not fully developed plates ; the number of teeth was consequently 

 thirty-nine. 8 The form of the teeth (fig. 7, 8) was as usual ; on 



i Cf. 1. c, 1858, Tab. I. f. 1-3. 



2 Cf. 1. c, 1858, Tab. I. fig. 4-5. 3 Cf. 1. c, Tab. I. fig. 7. 



4 These glands, which have been formerly described by me as salivary, 

 cannot be so homologized, because their ducts do not pass over the com- 

 missures of the central nervous system. Glands of the same kind have 

 been found in other forms of Aeolidiidce, in the genus Aeolidiella, Bgh. 

 (Cf. my. Beitr. znr Kenntn. d. Mollusken des Sargassomeeres. Verb. d. k. 

 k. Zool.-bot. Ges. in Wien, xxi. 1871, Taf. XIII. fig. 20b, and Beitr. zur 

 Kenntn. d. Aeolidiaden, ii. 1. c. xxiv. 1874, p. 39<h, Taf. VIII. fig. Ubb). 



5 Cf. 1. c, Tab. I. fig. 8. 



6 Cf. 1. c, Tab. I. fig. 9-13. ' Cf. 1. c, Tab. I. fig. 16-18. 



8 Cf. 1. c, Tab. I. fig. 23-28. The author found in twenty-two specimens 

 of the F. atlantica thirty-eight to fifty teeth ; the number of denticles was 

 mostly six to eight, sometimes eleven to twelve, on each side ; later (Beitr. 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1819. 



the cutting eds;e were on each side seven to nine denticles : on the 

 foremost teeth often nine; the breadth of the foremost teeth wns 

 about 0.13, of the twelfth 0.18 mm., the width amounting to 0.37 

 mm. or less. 



True salivary glands do not exist. The oesophagus, the stomach, 

 the intestine and the hepatic system, as far as could be deter- 

 mined, were quite as in the typical form. 1 



The vascular system and the renal organ are as formerly de- 

 scribed by me. 2 



The hermaphroditic gland 3 is quite as in the typical form, also 

 the hermaphroditic duct with its ampulla, and the spermato-duct 

 with its two parts, one thicker and brownish, the other thinner 

 and whitish. So also is the long (about 7 mm.) whip-like penis, 

 which is drawn back and bent up and down in the thinner sheath- 

 like part. The latter showed rather strong, circular, muscular 

 belts, and had a M. retractoris attached near the neck; the con- 

 tinuation of the spermato-duct could be followed through the 

 whole length of the penis to its point. The sjiermatolheca forms 

 a short bag about 1.-3.0 mm. long, filled with sperma. The ante- 

 rior genital mass is rather compressed, and about 4.25 mm. in 

 length. 



DENDRONOTIDiE. 



The Dendronotidee form, like the ScyUseidse and Bornelhdse* 

 in certain respects a connecting link between the large group of 

 AeoJidiidse and the still larger group of Dorididse. In those 

 families the liver forms, as in the Dorididse, a large compact mass, 

 but branches are given off from the same, that penetrate (as very 

 much reduced hepatic lobules) the dorsal appendages, which in 

 this way become homologous with the papilla? of the Aeolidiidse. 

 In most other respects these groups agree with the Aeolidiidse, 

 especially in the nature of the bulbus with its strongly developed 

 mandibles, and in the presence of only one spermatotheca. 



zur Kenntn. d. Moll, des Sargassomeeres, 1. c. , 1871, p. 1287), he saw thirty- 

 seven to forty-two teeth (in two individuals) with six denticles. 

 1 Cf. 1. c, Tab. II. fig. 30. 2 Cf. 1. c , Tab. II. fig. 31-32. 



3 Cf. 1. c, Tab. II. fig. 34-35. 



4 These two families have been examined by the author in his Mai. Un- 

 tersnch., Heft vii. 1874, pp. 287-308 (Boniellidce), and Heft viii. 1875, pp. 

 315-343 (Scyllmdm). 




( 



1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



The Dendronotidae differ externally vei'y distinctly from the 

 Scyllseidae and Bomellidae, especially in the form of the dorsal 

 papillae ; in the anatomical relations of the form of the mandi- 

 bular and by the character of the gl. hermaphrodisiaca, which is 

 not (as in the Dorididse) separate from, but connected with the 

 liver. 



Only two generic forms of the family have hitherto been known. 



1. Dendronotus, A. and H. 



2. Campaspe, Bgh. Naturkist. Tidssk., 3 R. J., 1863, pp. 471-478, Tab. 

 XII. figs. 1-17. 



DENDRONOTTJS, A. and H. 



The true Dendronoti differ from the Campaspae hy the much 

 more composite form of the frontal appendices, of the appendices 

 of the margin of the sheath of rhinophoria, and of the dorsal 

 papillae. The lateral teeth of the tongue of the former especially 

 are longer than in the Campaspae. 



Only a few species of the genus are hitherto known. 



1. J), arborescens (O. F. Muller). M. Atlant. 



2. D. luteolus, Lafont, Act. Soc. Linn, de Bord. 28, 1872. M. Atlant. 



3. D. robustus, Verrill, Amer. Journ. of Sci. and Arts, n. s. L., 1870, p. 



405. M. Pacif. 



4. D. iris., Cooper, Proc. of the Cal. Acad, of Sciences, ii. 1862, p. 59, 1863. 



M. Pacif. 



5. D. purpureus, Bgh. n. sp. M. Pacif. 



1. Dendronotus purpureus, Bergh, n. sp. Plate I. fig. 18-20 ; Plate III. fig. 7-12. 



Color purpureus. 



Dentes medianse (linguales) minutissime serrulati altamen non 

 usque iid apicem. 



Hab. M. Beringianum (Port Moller, Aliaska Peninsula). 



Only one specimen of this species was taken by Dall at Port 

 Moller on the north shore of Aliaska Pen., in September, 1874, 

 at a depth of seventeen fathoms, sand. He notes only that the 

 animal when living had the " mantle purple." 



The color of the alcoholic specimen, which was not in the best 

 condition, was reddish-brown, the head and foot yellowish. The 

 length of the (partly mutilated) animal was aparently about 20.0 

 mm. when perfect, with a height of the body of about 6.5 and a 

 breadth of nearly 5.0 mm. The height of the dorsal papillae 

 reached 3.0 mm. the breadth of the foot 3.5 mm. 

 7 








90 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



The form resembled that of the typical species, the veil had two 

 median arbusculi, and on each side three lateral ones, the median 

 little larger than the laterals ; between the median a small, simple, 

 rather prominent papilla. A similar papilla seemed to exist be- 

 tween the two lateral arbusculi. Under the veil, on the upper lips 

 of the simple muzzle were a series of small, simple, truncate pa- 

 pillae; the most lateral one larger (representing the tentacle??). 1 

 The sheath of the rhinophoria high ; above this was the usual 

 larger branched appendage, divided at the top into five nearly 

 similar appendages ; the club not large, with about twenty rather 

 thin, and very broad leaves (on each side) mostly alternating in 

 breadth. 2 The body of the typical form had the arborescent pa- 

 pilla?, as in the typical species ; the two foremost pairs seemed 

 more branched and more divaricate, between them (in the region of 

 the heart) lower arborescent tufts. 3 Between the first and second 

 papillae of the right side was the large truncate anal prominence, 4 

 and at its root in front the very fine renal pore. The sides of the 

 bod} 7 were rather high ; the genital opening in the usual place in 

 front of the region of the first (dorsal) papilla, with two fine aper- 

 tures. The foot was rather narrow, scarcely divided from the 

 sides of the body ; the front end rounded, a groove between this 

 and the under part of the mantle. 



The cerebro-visceral ganglia were nearly as figured by Alder 

 and Hancock (1. c, lig. 9), the cerebral part a little larger than the 

 visceral ; the pedal ganglia more rounded, and the commissure 

 between them longer. The olfactory ganglia in the root of the 

 club of the rhinophoria were nearly spherical, rather large. The 

 buccal ganglia were of oval form, the commissure between them 



1 This is very likely the slight tentacular prolongation mentioned by 

 Alder and Hancock. Meyer and Moebius (Fauna der Kieler-Bucht. i., 

 1865, Taf. V. fig. ?>) neither mention nor represent any tentacles. 



2 Alder and Hancock mention in the D. arborescens "five or six large 

 plates and intermediate smaller ones." Meyer and Moebius (1. c, p. 43) 

 indicate twelve leaves. The number is still greater, reaching up to about 

 thirty. 



3 The animal examined had been mutilated by an enemy, the intestines 

 were all left intact, but the walls of the body failed from behind the second 

 papilla. 



4 Neither Alder and Hancock nor Mej r er and Moebius mention the situa- 

 tion of the anus. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



a little shorter than the longest diameter of the ganglia ; the gan- 

 glia gastro-cesophagalia in size were about one-eighth of the last, 

 rounded, with a very large cell and several smaller ones. The 

 commissures, as in the D. arborescens. 1 



The eye was as usual, the pigment black. 2 The otocyst of the 

 diameter of about 0.1 mm., crowded with otoconia of very (from 

 about 0.004-0.0255 mm.) varying size. The leaves of the club of 

 the rhinophoria without spicula, and also the skin of the body, 

 which is easily detached from the subcutaneous muscular layer; 

 on the dorsal papillae especially, were masses of small yellowish 

 sac-shaped glands containing fatty matter. The anal tube was 

 short and wide, with longitudinal folds; the bulbus pharyngeus 

 formed as in the t3 T pical species, 5.0 mm. long, 3.0 high, and 3.0 mm. 

 broad. The insertion of the oesophagus was before the middle of 

 the upper side. The labial disk or ring strong, radiately furrowed, 

 of deep brown color internally; this inner portion formed a narrow 

 prehensile collar, composed of rather irregular closely and ob- 

 liquely set erect (fig. 18-20) spines, somewhat like those of the 

 labial plates in so many Dorididde, of dirty light yellowish-brown 

 color, 3 and about 4. mm. in height. 



The mandibles were yellowish-horn color, except that the arti- 

 culation was very dark-brown ; the form was exactly as in the typi- 

 cal 4 and in the following species (cf. PI. III. fig. 2-3). 



The processus masticatorius was rather short (fig. ta), with a 

 single series of small denticles exactly as in the D. arborescens 

 (PI. II. fig. 13 ; PI. IY. fig. 1); the cavities behind the articulation 

 of the mandibles were rather large (PI. III. fig. 3). The tongue 

 exactly as in the typical and in the next species (cf. PI. II. fig. 9, 

 10); the tectum (fig. 9a) radulse much extended forwards, and 

 the superior (fig. 10a) part of the rasp therefore very short; the 



1 The visceral commissure has not hitherto been seen even by Ihering 

 (1. c, p. 176) ; it is the foremost of the commissures, rather thin, the iV. 

 genitalis very distinct. 



2 In the Dendron. arborescens the end of the n. opticus is sometimes black. 



3 A similar somewhat broader collar was found in the larger specimens of 

 B. arborescens, but whitish like the rest of the labial disk, the spines (PI. 

 IV. fig. 2) were in more numerous rows (they hardly exceeded twenty in 

 D. purjmreus), and were light yellowish and longer. In two smaller indi- 

 viduals no trace of the collar could be found. 



4 Cf. my above cited paper, Tab. XII. fig. 28-30. 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



rasp-sheath very obliquely descending between the muscular 

 masses of the tongue, and appearing on the lowest part of the 

 back side of the bulbus pharyngeus (fig. 10c). The rachis (fig. 

 96) with nineteen rows of teeth on the anterior 'margin, and with 

 one on the superior; besides three loose median teeth laying in 

 the pocket on the inferior end of the tongue ; in the sheath twenty- 

 two developed rows and two- undeveloped, the total number of 

 rows was thus forty-four. The color of the median teeth horn- 

 yellow, that of the lateral much brighter yellowish; the breadth of 

 the eldest median teeth about 0.16 mm., of the eighth about 0.18, 

 and of the latest developed 0.20 mm. The form of the teeth ex- 

 actly as in the D. arborescens (cf. PL II. fig. 14). The median 

 ones (fig. 8-10) with a very fine denticulation on the margin, much 

 finer than in the typical species, and not reaching so far (cf. PI. II. 

 fig. 14, and PI. III. fig. 10) out toward the point. The lateral plates 

 number also about fourteen, of typical form ; the first sometimes 

 with traces of a slight serrulation on the inside of the hook, the 

 following mostly with about five to six (sometimes even seven to 

 nine) sharp denticles on the outside (fig. 11); in the three to four 

 (rarely five) external plates the free hook disappearing more and 

 more together with the denticles ; the outermost, or the two outer- 

 most, were very thin 1 (PI. III. fig. 5). Variations in the form of the 

 lateral teeth, and coalescence of two teeth were often observed, 

 quite as in the typical species (cf. PI. III. fig. la). 



1 According to Alder and Hancock (1. c.) the number of rows of teeth in 

 the D. arborescens is about forty, with nine lateral teeth on each side. 

 Meyer and Moebius mention (1. c. p. 44) a " Radnla," with forty-four rows 

 (by which is probably meant the total number of rows on the rhachis and 

 in the sheath), and with ten lateral teeth, and the same number of lateral 

 teeth has been indicated by Loven. In my former examination (of two 

 individuals) I saw sixteen to twenty -two rows on the rhachis and twenty- 

 five to twenty-seven in the sheath, or a total number of forty-one to forty- 

 nine rows, with ten to thirteen lateral teeth. In my present examination 

 of five specimens of D. arborescens (like the former, all from the Greenland 

 coast at Jacobshavn, etc. ) I find the number of rows on the rhachis varying 

 in small individuals from thirteen to eighteen, and those in the sheath from 

 sixteen to twenty-three, the total number thus varying between twenty -nine 

 and forty-one ; in three large individuals, having a length of 35.0 mm., the 

 number was 13 + 20 (33), 16 + 20 (36), and 22 + 26 (48) ; the number of 

 lateral teeth being eleven in the former and thirteen in the latter. In all 

 specimens two or three median teeth were found loose at the under side of 

 the root of the tongue. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



The salivary glands were very long, accompanying the oeso- 

 phagus (cf. PI. III. fig. 12a) and extending further backwards; 

 the duct was also rather long (fig. 126). 



The oesophagus, stomach, and intestine were as in the typical 

 species. The liver, perhaps in consequence of occasional contrac- 

 tion of the animal, much thinner anteriorly, much thicker poste- 

 riorly, and of a more grayish color. 



The heart was as usual. The renal syrinx nearly equalled the 

 ventricle of the heart in size. The renal organ, as far as could be 

 determined, was as in the Aeolidiidse. The hermaphroditic gland 

 almost as in the typical species 1 covering the back of the liver 

 from the anterior end of this organ (or nearly reaching the ante- 

 rior genital mass) to a point between the last pair of branches for 

 the dorsal papillae. The gland forms a rather thick layer, which 

 is a little narrower than the liver, and fills the longitudinal median 

 groove in the upper side of it. It is of a slate gray color, owing 

 to the peculiar pigment of the single glands ; is composed of a 

 mass of rather large, rounded, isolated, but (from reciprocal pres- 

 sure) often subangulated glands (cf. PI. II. fig. 15). 



Neither developed zoosperms nor large oogene cells were found 

 in the glands of the individual examined. The anterior genital 

 mass was whitish and yellowish : and, as far as could be deter- 

 mined, quite as in the Dendr. arborescens ; a very large part of 

 the whole mass was formed by the long penis, which still seemed 

 somewhat shorter than it usually is 2 in the typical species (cf. PI. 

 IV. fig. 4). 



This form might, perhaps, prove to be identical with the form 

 of Dendronotus " with the tips of the branchial tufts white," 

 fished by Couthouy (U. S. Explor. Exped. Moll., 1852, p. 311), in 

 Puget Sound ; or even to agree with the D. iris of Cooper (1. a). 

 Under the circumstances, the form described above must very 

 likely be regarded as a new species, not even identical with the 

 nearl}' red Tritonia pulchella of A. and H. (Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist, 

 iv. 1842, p. 33), which, like all the forms of D. arboi*escens is still 

 dotted with yellow (cf. A. and H., Monogr., Part I., 1845, fam. 3, 



1 The representation by Alder and Hancock (1. c, PI. II. fig. 1?) is incor- 

 rect. 



2 The penis seems to vary a good deal in the Dendron. arborescens, or a 

 least to be very contractile. 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 1879. 



pi. 3). Besides the color the form clearly differs in the very weak 

 serrulation of the median teeth. 



Dendronotus Dalli, Bergh, n. sp. Plate I. f. 21 ; PI. II. f. 9-12 ; PI. III. fig. 2-6. 



Animal ? 



Dentes mediani margine laevigata. 



Hab. Fretum Beringianum. 



In dredging on rocky bottom at a depth of thirty-five fathoms 

 in the Arctic Ocean, Bering Strait, August, 1855, Dr. Win. 

 Stimpson obtained the bulbus pharyngeus of a mollusk, which 

 proves to be a Dendronotus. 



The size of the bulbus was uncommonly large, the length being 

 about 10.5, the breadth 7.0, and the height about 6.0 mm. Its 

 form and that of the mandibles (fig. 2-4) resembled that of the 

 same parts in D. arborescens and D. purpureas, but of somewhat 

 darker color, the edge of the cutting blade (fig. 2c, 3c, 4) differ- 

 ing a little from that of the other species, and the serrulation of 

 the denticles being more distinct than in them. The tongue (PI. 

 II. fig. 9, 10) as in the other species. There were on the rhaehis 

 twemVy-four rows of teeth, in the sheath twenty-five developed and 

 two not quite developed rows, the total number of rows amounting 

 to fifty-one. The median teeth were of very dark, nearly black- 

 brown color, reaching a breadth of 0.3 mm., without any trace 

 of serrulation of the margin (fig. 11, 126). The lateral teeth 

 (fig. 5) number fourteen, rarely fifteen, quite as in the other spe- 

 cies, the four to five outermost also without denticulations (fig. 

 21a, fig. 5a). 



The bulbus clearly belonged to a Dendronotus different from the 

 two former species. The Dendron. arborescens has the cutting 

 edge of the median teeth very distinctly serrulated, and to the 

 very point of the teetli ; this serrulation is much weaker in the D. 

 purpureus and shorter, but it disappears entirely in the D. Dalli, 

 which, moreover, is distinguished by a somewhat peculiar form of 

 the cutting edge of the mandibles. As the length of the bulbus 

 pharyngeus in specimens of D. arborescens, preserved in spirits, 

 commonly is about one-tenth of the length of the whole body (cf. 

 my former paper) the D. Dalli is likely to reach the very notable 

 length of about 100.0 mm. 



* 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 95 



TRITONIIDiE. 



The genus Tritonia was established by Cuvier as early as 1798, 

 but may have been at first 1 hardly separable from the forms subse- 

 quently named Dendronotus, A. and H. 



Cuvier gave no type of the genus. Lamarck soon afterward 

 (1801) adopted the name of Cuvier,' 2 but used as example the 

 Doris clavigera of Miiller, which has since become the type of the 

 genus Triopa. Thus the genus must really take date from the 

 later anatomical publication of Cuvier in 1802. 3 The genus is not 

 properly characterized here, and contains tlieD. clavigera ('= Tri- 

 opa), the D. cervina (=Dendronotus), the D.coronata (=Doto), the 

 D. arborescens (=Dendronotus), and the D. frondosa (='Tritonia 

 Hombergi), besides a form which Cuvier regarded as probably 

 new, the Tritonia Hombergi, which he seems to establish as the 

 type of the genus, especially in the first edition of the Rogue 

 Animale, 4 and this has since been regarded as the typical form by 

 all later authors. 



Except that some new species of the genus were described", 

 nearly nothing since Cuvier was known of these animals until 

 the anatomical examination of the Trit. tethydea, by Delle Chiaje, 

 1824, 5 and especially until the excellent publications of Alder and 

 Hancock in 1855. 6 



The genus has by different authors been classed with other genera 

 in different wa} r s ; as a family Tritoniacea (Menke, Philippi, Forbes, 

 andLoven); Tritoniae (Fer., Rang) ; Tritoniadee (Johnston) ; Tri- 

 tonidee (d'Orb.) ; but all the arrangements have been quite unna- 

 tural. Alder and Hancock first (1855) formed a natural group of 

 Triton iadiee, 7 only including the genus Tritonia, and this family 

 was soon after (1857) adopted by Gray. 8 



1 Tabl. Eltim. an vi. (1798), p. 387. " Le nombre des tentacules qui 

 entourcnt la bouche varie cle deux a knit." Cuvier, 1. c. 

 * 2 Lamarck, Syst. des animaux sans vert, an ix. (1801), p. 65. 



3 Cuvier, Mem. sur le genre Tritonia, Ann. du Museum, 1, 1802, pp. 480- 

 496, PI. XXXI.-XXXII. 



4 Cuvier, Regne Animale, ii. p. 391, 1817. 



5 Delle Chiaje, Mem. sulle storia degli an. s vert. iv. 1S29. Tav. lxii. ed. 

 2, V. p. 74. 



6 Alder and Hanc, Monogr. of the Brit. Nudibr. Moll., Part VII. 1855. 

 fam. 2, PI. I.-II. 



' Alder and Hanc, 1. c. Part VII. 1855, app. p. xx. 

 8 Gray's Guide, i. 1857, p. 218. 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



The characters of the family seem at present to be formidable 

 in the following way : 



Corpus subquadrilaterale, subelongatum. Velum frontale sat 

 magnum, integrum vel sub-bilobum, margine laciniis tentaculari- 

 bus fimbriatum. Rhinophoria vagina tubulosa, erecta, margine 

 revoluto retractilia ; petiolo cylindrico ; clavo culmine obtuso obli- 

 quo margine pennis bipinnatis instructo. Branchiae numerosae, 

 subpedicellatse, arbusculi-formes, insequales, margine palliali pro- 

 minulo serie simplici dispositse. Anus lateralis. 



Bulbus pharyngeus magnus. Mandibulse fortes, plus minusve 

 elongatse, sat applanatse. Radula lata, multiseriata. Series den- 

 tium multidentatae, dens medianus latns, depressi\s vel nonni- 

 hil elongatus, subpyramidalis ; utrinque dens lateralis mediano 

 subsimilis, sed magis elongatus ; dentes exteriores hamiformes, 

 margine Isevi vel denticulate 



Heparnon ramificatum. Sperraatotheca unica. Penis elongatus, 

 inermis. 



The body of the' Tr it 'oniidas is rather stout and strong, some- 

 what elongated, subquadrilateral. A large frontal veil covers the 

 head ; it is simple or more or less bilobed, the margin with more 

 or less numerous, rather short, digitations. The sheaths of the 

 rhinophoria erect, tubulous, with revoluted margin; their stalks 

 cjdindrical, the club oblique above, with bipinnate plumes on the 

 margin. The gills are rather numerous, unequal, subpetiolate 

 arborescent, inserted one behind the other upon the somewhat 

 prominent pallial margin. The anus is before the middle of the 

 right side, the bulbus j)haryngeus very large and strong. The 

 mandibles are very strong, elongated, the anterior extremity (arti- 

 culation) arched upwards. The interior cutting edge coarsely 

 serrated. The radula broad, with many series of plates, the series 

 with many plates. The rhachidian tooth broad or more elongate 

 subpyramidal ; with a somewhat similar, but more elongated, 

 lateral on each side. The remaining laterals (uncini) hook-shaped, 

 the hook with smooth or denticulated margin. The liver is as in 

 the Dorididae, quite without ramifications. As in the former 

 groups a single spermatotheca (the spermato-cysts 1 wanting). 

 The penis elongate, somewhat flagelliform, unarmed. 



The Tritoniidas form a connecting link between the large group 



1 I have used this name for the secondary spermatotheca of the Dorididm. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



of Nudibranchiata with a ramified liver, and those with a simple 

 liver embracing the Dorididse and the Porostomata 1 (Do?-iopsidse, 

 Phyllidiidse). 



As in the Dorididse there is only one spermatotheca ; but in the 

 general form of the body, and in the nature of the pharyngeal 

 bulbus they show more affinity to the Porostomata. 



The family seems to include but one genus, the proper Tritonise ; 

 two other established genera, the Candiella of Gray (Fig. Moll. 

 An. iv. 1850, p. 106), with Tr. plebeia as type, and the Nemo- 

 cephala of A. Costa (Atti della R. Acad, delle Sci. di Napoli, iii. 

 No. 19, 1869) with the new (?) species (N. marmorata, C.) as type 

 very likely merge in the typical genus, at least the characters 

 given by these authors do not raise these forms to new generic 

 rank. 



The animals belonging to this group are all slow, sluggish, and 

 voracious. The spawn of the northern European species has been 

 made known b\' Dalzell, Alder, and Hancock ; of the develop- 

 mental history nothing is hitherto known. 



This group seems not to belong to the tropical seas. A small 

 series of species has been published from the eastern part of the 

 Atlantic (while only one is yet known (?) from the western), from 

 the Mediterranean, the Red Sea, and the northern part of the 

 Pacific. 



1. Tritonia Hombergi, Cuv. N. Atlant. 



2. Tr. rubra, Leuck. Rupp. Atlas, 1828, p. 15,' t. 4, fig. 1. 



3. Tr. elegans, Sav. Egypte, xxii. PI. II. fig. 1, 1827. 



Tr. glaucce, Leuck. Rupp. Atl., p. 16, t. 4, fig. 2, 1828. Mare Ru- 

 brum. 



4. Tr. cyanobranchiata, Leuck, Rupp., 1. c, p. 16, t. 4, fig. 3 a, b, Mare 



Rubrum. 



5. Tr. decaphylla, Cantr. Bull, de l'Ac. des Sci. de Brux. 11, p. 384, 1835. 



Tr. quadrilatera Schultz, Phil. En. Moll. Soc, i. p. 103, t. xix. fig. 



2 ; ii. p. 76. 

 ? Tr. Blainvillea, Risso, Eur. Merid. iv. p. 35, 1826. Verany, Journ. 



de Conchyl. iv. p. 386, 1853 2 (unpublished). 

 ? (Juven.) Tr. gibbosa, Risso, 1. c. p. 35. Mare Mediteran. 



1 I have used this name for a group including the Doriopsidm and PTiyl- 

 lidiidm ; cf. my Mai. Unters. x. 1876. 



2 The species is named, but not described. The cited book of Verany 

 has never been published. Last year a young friend, M. Vayssiere, of 

 Marseilles got some specimens from the family and kindly sent me one. Cf. 

 my Mai. Unters., xiii. 1878, p. 530. 



Va> 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18T9. 



6. Tr. tethydea, Delle Chiaje, Mem. iv. 1829, t. 2, fig. 20, Ed. 2, v. p. 74. 



.Marc Mediterran. 



7. Tr. Costa, Verany, Catal. p. 23, t, ii. fig. 7, 8, 184G. Mare Mediterran. 



8. Tr. Meyeri, Verany, Zool. des Alpes Marit. p. 871, 1862. Mare Medi- 



terran. 



9. Tr. acuminata, 0. G. Costa, Statistica fis. ed econ. dell'isola di Capri, 



ii. 1, 1840, p. 1840, p. GO, Tav. V. fig. 1 a. b. 1 Mare Mediterran. 



10. Tr. tetraquetra (Pallas). Mare Pacificum. 



11. Tr. Palmeri, Cooper, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., ii. 18G3, p. 207. Mare 



Pacificum (Cal.). 



12. Tr. Hawaiensis, Pease, Proc. Zool. Soc, xviii. 18G0, p. 33. Mare 



Pacificum. 



13. Tr. pallida, Stimpson, Proc. Phil. Acad. Nat. Sci., vii. p. 388, 1856. 



Mare Capense. 



14. Tr. cucculata, Gould, Expl. Exp. Shells, 1852, p. 308. Mare Atlant. 



occid. (Brasilia). 



15. Tr. plebeia, Johnst. Mare Atlant. 



16. Tr. lineata, Alder and Hancock. Mare Atlant. 



17. Tr. (Duvancelia) gracilis, Risso, 1. c. p. 38. Mare Mediterran. 



18. Tr. manicata, Desk., Tr. de Conchyl. 1839-1853, expl. des pi. p. 59, 



pi. 93, fig. 2. 

 ? NemocepTiala marmorata, A. Costa, Illustr. di due generi di Moll. 

 Nudibr., Atti. della R. Ac. Sci. di Napoli, iii. No. 19, 18G9, Tav. 

 . fig. 6-8. Mare Mediterran. 



I. Tritonia tetraquetra (Pallas), PI. III. f. 13-16 ; PI. IV. fig. 5-12 ; PI. V. fig. 1-2. 

 Li max tetraquetra, Pallas, Nova Acta Petrop. ii. p. 237, 239, Tab. V. f. 22, 



1788. 

 Doris tetraquetra, Gmelin; S. N. ed. xiii. t. G, p. 3106, 1789. 



Color animalis cinerascens. 



Hab. M. Pacific, septentr. (Insulae Kurilse, Aleutian^). 



This species was detected by Pallas, and described (1. c.) among 

 his "marina varia nova et rariora;" and immediately afterwards 

 was inserted bj r Gmelin in his undigested genus Doris; it seems 

 not to have been mentioned since that time, nor recognized by 

 any of the different explorers of the Pacific. 2 



Pallas got the animal from the Kuril Islands, "where the inha- 

 bitants eat it, raw or cooked, and where it is known b3^ the name 

 of Tochni." He says nothing about the colors of the animal, only 



1 On account of the rarity of the work cited (kindly given to me by Prof. 

 A. Costa, of Naples, the son of the author) this species has only been men- 

 tioned by Gray, Guide, i. p. 218. 



2 Cuvier (1. c. p. 4) mentions the possibility of this species of Pallas 

 being a Tritonia. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



remarking that they are found larger than the figure he gives, 

 which has a length of seven to eight centimetres. 



Of this curious form only one specimen was found by Dall at 

 Unalashka, on a reef at low water (in April, 1872). The color of 

 the living animal is noted as having been " ashy gray." 



The color of the animal, preserved in spirits, was uniformly 

 light gray-yellowish; on the pinnae of the plumes of the rhino- 

 phoria, but especially on the envelope of the papillae of the club 

 of these, were remains of a silverish-white, which is also seen on 

 the lobes of the anus and the renal orifice. The length of the 

 bod} r was about 75.0 by a breadth of 37.5, and a height of 26.0 mm. 

 In general the form of the animal was somewhat as in the typical 

 Tritonia, rather stout ; the anterior part of the body hardly nar- 

 rower than the median, the posterior somewhat constricted. The 

 back was a little convex, sloping backwards, rather smooth or 

 very minutely granulated, feeling a little rough to the touch ; on 

 the edge finely tuberculated. 1 The edge projecting about 6 mm.; 

 thinner towards the border, which is finely and irregularly toothed, 

 but showed (PI. III. fig. 14) few traces of gills; 2 on the left side 

 the margin is continued to the (left) rhinophorium, on the right 

 it did not reach quite to the region of the genital openings; back- 

 wards it grew narrower and thinner, over the tail it was nearly 2 

 mm. broad. The rhinophoria are rather distant from each other, 

 almost entirely as in the Tr. Hombergi ; the apertures of the pro- 

 minent sheaths oval, with a diameter of about 6 mm., with the 

 border undulated, and involuted. The stalk of the club low ; the 

 club itself cylindrical, about 3.75-4.0 mm. high ; the central part of 

 the club much lower, oblique; in the periphery the club is divided 

 in several (about ten) larger, commonly bi- or tripinnate plumes, 

 which sometimes are again divided into a medial with a lateral 

 one on each side ; between these stand sometimes one or two 

 smaller and single plumes ; the foremost is the lowest ; the hind- 

 most of all the plumes is the largest, and the stem of this is 

 produced in a thick papilla projecting over all the plumes; from 



1 Pallas mentions the back as more unequal (" grandinoso-inrequalre"). 



2 Very likely the gills were rubbed off; on the other hand, Pallas, too, 

 does neither mention nor in his figure represent gills, he only says that 

 the back side has "anguli carunculato hiulci." (The animal when fresh 

 showed no traces of any gills to the casual observer, and had not been 

 subjected to rough handling. Dall.) 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



the base of this papilla three to five low septula diverge, divide 

 and go to the base of the plumes aud their broad rhachides. 1 The 

 veil entire (not bilobed) ; with the upper border (about 8 mm.) and 

 the corners (about 10 mm.) freely projecting (fig. 13); it is (36 

 mm.) broad and (16 mm.) high; on the front side regularly fur- 

 rowed by fine reticulated lines, which produce the appearance of 

 a serpent's skin (PI. IV. fig. 5); the upper edge of the veil is 

 smooth or showing only traces of dentition ; 2 there is no trace of 

 the grooved fold on each side at the base of the veil found in the 

 Tr. Hombergi; the end of the muzzle beneath the middle of the 

 veil is contracted. The sides of the body somewhat high and con- 

 vex, a little lower in the anterior part; decreasing in height from 

 the region of the anus backward. The upper genital opening was 

 entirely filled by the flagelliform penis (PI. III. f. 13d) which was 

 about 20.0 mm. long, with a diameter at the base of 3.0, and at 

 the tip of 0.5 mm. The larger mucous gland (fig. 13) was below 

 this opening. Behind the middle of the body is the crateriform 

 anal papilla projecting about 3 mm., in the orifice of which are 

 strongly projecting folds (PI. III. fig. 15a) before which is the 

 renal opening also provided with internal folds (fig. 156). The 

 foot is as long as the back, rounded in front, with a marginal 

 groove which extends beyond the region of the genital orifices ; 

 the foot projects laterally some 3-4.0 mm. from the body. The 

 tail is short, hardly 3.0 mm. long. 



The peritoneum is colorless, the viscera not in the best preser- 

 vation in the specimen examined. 



The central nervous system closely resembles that of the Tri- 

 tonia Hombergi, 3 the limits of the two compartments of the cerebro- 

 visceral ganglia are more pronounced than in the Tr. Hombergi; 



1 The representation of the rhinophoria of Frit. Hombergi, by Alder and 

 Hanc. (1. c. part vii. 1855, fam. 2, pi. 2, fig. 2) is too simple. 



2 Pallas mentions and represents the veil as "lacero-dentatura." 



3 The representation given by Alder and Hancock, as well as that of 

 Ihering (Vergl. Anat. der Nervens. und Phylog. d. Moll., p. 174, Taf. II. 

 f. 6) are nearly correct, at least in the essential characters ; the short com- 

 missure between the cerebro-visceral and the pedal ganglia is of course 

 double, as seen by Ihering, and perhaps also represented by Alder and 

 Hancock, on the left side ; in the hinder part of the left visceral and pedal 

 ganglion is a small ganglion communicating with the visceral one ; the 

 gastro-cesophageal ganglia are shorter-stalked than represented by A. 

 and H. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



the buccal ganglia (PI. IV. fig. 6) are rather large, of oval out- 

 line; the gastro-oesophageal rather short-stalked, ovoid, with three 

 large cells (fig. 6a). 



The eyes are as usual. 1 The otocysts about 0.2 mm. in dia- 

 meter contain about sixty round or oval otoconia, reaching from 

 0.025 mm. rarely to 0.04 mm. in diameter, many of them marked 

 with a few fine concentric lines. 2 The skin is almost free from 

 spiculae, they are almost entirely absent from the interstitial con- 

 nective tissue. 



The oral tube is rather short, about 6.0 mm. long, wide, with 

 the usual longitudinal folds. The bulbus pharyngeus is strong, 

 about 16.0 mm. long by 14.0 mm. broad and high. The form is 

 in general shorter and stouter than in the typical Tritonia. The 

 "muscle-plate" on the front side as in Tr. Hombergi. 3 



The jaws (PI. IY. fig. 7) shorter, broader, and higher than in 

 the Tr. Hombergi; the length of the united jaws was 12, the 



1 The eyes in Tr. Hombergi show black pigment and a yellow lens, they 

 are about 0.28 mm. in diameter.. The nervus opticus is about four times 

 as long as the cerebro-visceral ganglion, and issues from a small ganglion 

 situated near the pedal ganglion, giving out a nerve before reaching the 

 eye, and continued in a third nerve beyond the eye. Cf. Ihering, 1. c. 

 p. 174. 



2 Alder and Hancock did not discover the otocysts in Tr. Hombergi, nor 

 did I, but they were seen by Ihering. 



3 The bulbus pharyngeus of the Tritonise is, as also the tongue, very like 

 that of the Pleurophyllidim, but somewhat more flattened (cf. my Bidrag 

 til en Monographi af PleuropTiylliidieme, Naturh. Tidsskr. 3 R. iv. 1866, pp. 

 224-356). The lip disk at the bottom of the oral tube is as in those ; also 

 the thick muscular plate at the front of the jaws (cf. 1. c. p. 229), and with 

 the usual transverse groove. In two individuals of the Tr. Hombergi of 

 the length of 7.5 and 5.5 cm., the bulb. phar. had the length of 20 to 23 

 mm., a breadth of 12 to 15 mm., and a height of 11.5 to 15.0 mm., or the 

 length of the bulbus amounted to about one-third that of the body ; on the 

 surface of the bulbus were marked partitions nearly as in the Pleurophyl- 

 lidiidce; the sheath of the radula on the hinder and upper end of the bulbus 

 was distinct, but not prominent. The united jaws 23 to 24 mm. long, with 

 a breadth of 12 to 16, and a height of 6 to 7 mm. ; the breadth of the jaw 

 alone behind the articulation about 2.5, on the broadest part 6.75 to 7.0 

 mm. ; the free part of the proc. masticator. 1.5 to 2.0 mm. long ; the articu- 

 lation rather prominent in front ; nearly the posterior half of the cutting 

 edge is serrated, every denticle composed of several, more or less coalescent, 

 conical points, elevated about 0.16 mm, ; a deep furrow for muscular inser- 

 tion nearly parallel with the cutting edge. 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1819. 



breadth 13 ram., and the height 5 mm.; the jaw alone had behind 

 the articulation (fig. 7a) a breadth of 5.5 to 7.0 mm. in the hinder 

 part; 1 the length of the (free part of the) proc. masticatorius 

 (fig. *lb) 1.5 mm.; the articulation rather prominent in front; the 

 cutting edge in the posterior part slightly undulated, but plain, 

 under the microscope covered with many irregular series of 

 irregular prismatic bodies (fig. 1G) about 02 mm. high. The 

 tougue is large, broad, and high ; the radula narrower than in Tr. 

 ITombergi, brownish-yellow, with nineteen series of teeth. 2 On 

 the under side of the tongue, moreover, the marks of eight series 

 of teeth remain, the teetli themselves having been dropped. There 

 were under the tectum radulse and in the sheath twentj'-five fully 

 developed series, and six which were yet only partly colored. 

 The number of series in all fifty. The number of teeth was, in 

 one of the foremost series of the radula, about two hundred and 

 twenty-five (on each side), and the number seemed not to inci'ease 

 notably farther backwards. The median tooth is like a compressed 

 pyramid, somewhat narrower in the hinder part (PI. IV. fig. 8aa; 

 PI. V. figs, laa, 2a), with the upper part bent backwards (fig. 8); 

 the posterior margin more or less rounded, the anterior margin 

 (fig. laa) with a slight cleft, the continuation of which (fig. 2a) 

 forms a groove on the anterior side of the pyramid. The first 

 lateral tooth shaped nearly as the medial is, but (fig. Sbbcc, 166, 

 2) narrower and longer, the (fig. 8) upper part less prominent, 

 less crooked, and commonly more rounded at the top (fig. 8). 

 The second lateral tooth either nearly like the first (fig. 8a 7 ), or 

 with a distinct beginning of the form (fig. le, 2), that reigns 

 through the long series of external teeth (fig. 12) ; all these lateral 

 teeth are high (fig. 9), compressed, crooked ; the point rather 

 blunt; the basal part of the teeth is continued in an uncolored 



1 The form of the mandibular is rather similar to the figure of Pallas (1. 

 c. fig. 22a). 



2 In a very large individual of the Tr. Hombergi the (always large) 

 radula contained forty-three series of teeth, behind which were forty-seven 

 additional series, the total number of rows being ninety. In the forty- 

 second row or series, on each side, were about two hundred and eleven 

 teeth, in the fifty-second row two hundred and twenty -nine lateral teeth. 

 According to Alder and Hancock (1. c. part vii. pi. 46, suppl.) the number 

 of rows is eighty -four, and the number of lateral teeth two hundred and 

 twenty-one. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



(not thickened), flexible process (fig. 9). The one to two outer- 

 most teeth small and in form very variable (fig. 10a, llaa). The 

 teeth (in their thickened parts) of yellowish color, somewhat 

 darker and less clear than in the typical species. The length of 

 the rachidian teeth in the hinder part of the tongue 0.2 mm.; the 

 greatest height of the lateral teeth (in about the same region) 0.4 

 mm. Double plates (fig. 12) were present. 



The glandnlse salivales were clay-yellowish, about 25.0 mm. 

 long, rather flattened; about 10.0 mm. broad on the under side, 

 separated by the oesophagus ; on the upper side confluent in a 

 large convex plate about 25.0 mm. broad. The efferent ducts were 

 short. 



The oesophagus was about 38.0 mm. long, with a diameter of 

 11.0 mm., and rose from the foremost part of the bulbus pha- 

 ryngeus; in the posterior half were rather strong longitudinal 

 folds passing without distinct limits into the stomach. The latter 

 formed a moderately sized sac at the anterior part of the liver; 

 the under side was free, the upper decked by a flat lobe of the 

 liver. The stomach was somewhat compressed; in anteroposte- 

 rior direction about 9.0 mm. high; the cardia were wide with two 

 biliary orifices in the posterior part ; above, a rather narrow 

 pylorus with very strong folds ; the walls of the stomach are 

 rather smooth. The intestine issues from the uppermost part of 

 stomach, appearing on the surface of the liver at the left side of 

 the heart, following the left margin of the liver forwards, lodged 

 in a groove on the surface, but backward at the front and end of 

 the liver, following the right side of that organ, somewhat descend- 

 ing, then ascending again and terminating at the anus. The 

 anteriorly proceeding part of the intestine was about 25.0 mm. 

 long, the rest was about 50.0 mm. long, of which 15.0 mm. be- 

 longed to the part which ascends to the anus. The diameter of 

 the terminal portions of the intestine was about 3.0 mm., of the 

 middle portion nearly 7.0 mm. Through nearty the whole length 

 of the intestine, and nearly reaching to the knee of the last 

 ascending part, was a strong and thick fold of about 3 mm. in 

 height ; the last part of the same for a length of full 4 mm., free 

 and projecting wing-like. Fine longitudinal folds, often shining 

 through the walls of the intestine, were moreover seen through 

 the whole length of it, in the first part especially strong on the 

 under side ; in the last part finer, partly ending in the folds of 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1819. 



the anal opening (PI. III. fig. 65a). The contents of the intes- 

 tine, stomach, and oesophagus were indistinct animal matter. 



The liver of a clay-yellowish color, large ; the length about 4.7 

 mm., with a breadth of 30, and a height of about 26.0 mm.; the 

 hinder end rounded ; the foremost half of the lower lobe wanting, 

 its place occupied by the stomach; the front, therefore, very 

 oblique, sloping backwards and somewhat towards the right side 

 (Avith an impression for the large anterior genital mass). On 

 the surface of the liver rather superficial furrows in different 

 directions, especially transverse; through the middle part of the 

 upper side of the liver, beginning at the right side, a somewhat 

 deeper longitudinal furrow diverges towards the left side, con- 

 taining the renal chamber; at the junction of the first and the 

 second third of the upper side a very deep transverse groove for 

 the pyloric part of the intestine (which turns to the left) ; but the 

 part of the liver before the groove is a continuation of the whole 

 liver, and not only of the left part of it (as in the Tr. Hombergi). 

 The structure of the liver is as in the typical form. 



The atrium and ventricle of the heart are as usual, the ventricle 

 9.0 mm. long, and the renal syrinx about 3.0 mm. long, of the 

 usual structure; the renal chamber, as far as it could be deter- 

 mined, as in the Tr. Hombergi} 



The gland, hermaphrodisiaca not distinguishable in color from 

 the liver, covering the surface of that organ nearly as in the Tr. 

 Hombergi, and of similar structure. The follicles contained zo- 

 osperms and lai'ge oogene cells. 



The anterior genital mass very large, 30.0 mm. long, 18.0 mm. 

 in greatest breadth, and 23.0 mm. in greatest height. The ductus 

 hermaphrodisiacus issues from the upper part of the front of the 

 liver about in the middle line under the first reflection of the in- 

 testine. It is yellowish, not long, and about 1.0 mm. in diameter. 



It swells rather abruptly into the ampulla, which is very long 

 and strong, and forms a bunch of thick coils on the back of the 

 anterior genital mass. When straightened the ampulla was about 

 120.0 mm. long; diameter variable, but reaching 6.0 mm. It was 

 crammed with zoosperms. The spermato-duct (vas deferens) was 

 strong, not long ; furnished before entering the penis (in the speci- 

 men examined), with an ampulliform dilatation; then penetrating 



', Cf. A. Hancock on the structure and homologies of the renal organ in 

 the Nudibr. Moll. Trans. Linn. Soc, xxiv. p. 515, PL LIV. fig. 5-8, 1864. 




1819.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



the whole length of the everted penis, with several irregular dila- 

 tations and constrictions through the posterior part, and ending 

 on the blunted point of that organ with a small round orifice. 

 The spermato-duct is attached to the walls of the penis by 

 abundant connective tissue; its wall is very thick ; the inside in 

 the posterior part with some strong longitudinal folds, clothed 

 with a fine epithelium, which towards the end of the penis is about 

 0.07 mm. in thickness. The (PI. III. fig. 13(/) penis, as above 

 stated, flagelliform, about 20.0 mm. long, under the loop fur- 

 nished with a whitish covering, partly confluent, partly scattered; 

 in the skin through the whole length of the organ an infinity of 

 bottle-shaped, glistening glands about 0.035 to 0.04 mm. in length. 

 The spermatotheca pyriform, about 9 mm. long, passing without 

 precise limit into a short ductus, that is a little dilated in the 

 inferior part (vagina). The large mucous gland convex in front; 

 on the back rather flat toward the anterior part, in the posterior 

 excavated (for the reception of the ampulla of the hermaphroditic 

 duct); the duct short; the cavity of the organ narrow, empty. 1 



DORIDIDiE. 



This large group is easily distinguished through the (retractile 

 or not retractile) branchial rosette on the middle of the back. 

 This character is only found in a single other group of gastero- 

 poda, the Doriopsidse, which, in their exterior characters, closely 

 simulate the Doriduhe, and had been confounded with them, at 

 least so far that the}' were regarded as both belonging to a single 

 large group, until my examination of them'- showed their affinity 

 to the Ph yllidiidee* with which they were combined by me in a 

 larger group, the Porostomata, particularly characterized through 

 their poriform "outer mouth," and the conversion of the bulbus 

 pharyngeus into a quite unarmed sucking apparatus. On the 

 contrary the Dorididae all show a very well-developed bulbus, 

 with a more or less strong tongue; and often also a particular 

 armature of the lip-disk on the anterior end of the bulbus, and 



1 Pallas (1. c. p. 238, fig. 23*b) seems to have seen different parts of the 

 anterior genital mass. 



2 R. Bergh, neue Naektschnecken der Sudsee. Journ. der Mus. Godeffroy. 

 Heft viii. 1875, pp. 82-94, Taf. x. xi. 



3 R. Bergh* Beitr. til Kundsk. om Phyllidierne (Schiodte) Natur. Tidsskr., 

 3 R. v. 1869, pp. 357-543, tab. xiv.-xxiv. 



8 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



lip-plates of rather different kind and nature. With the Doriop- 

 sidee (Porostomata) the Dorididse agree in the presence of two 

 spermatothecse, and of a vascular gland connected with the cen- 

 tral nervous system. 



There have been detected but a small number of the generic 

 forms and species belonging to this large family during Dall's 

 expeditions. 



ARCHIDORIS, Bergh. 

 Doris anct. 



Archidoris, Bergh, Malac. Unters. (Semper, Pbilipp. ii. Heft xiv. p. 616, 

 1878). 



Corpus sat molle subdepression. Tentacula hum ilia, plicse-for- 

 mia intus altiora. Dorsum tuberculosum et granulosum. Bran- 

 chia (retractilis) e foliis tripinnatis formata. Podarium sat latum, 

 margine anteriore superficialiter sulcatum. 



Armatura labialis nulla. Radula rhachide nuda, pleuris multi- 

 dentates ; dentes hamati. Ventriculus liber. Penis biennis. 



When Linne, in the tenth edition of his Systema Naturae 

 (1758), founded the genus Doris, he referred but one species to it 

 (cf. my Mai. Unters. [in Semper, Reise Philipp. II. ii.], Heft x. 

 1876, p. 388), his D. verrucosa. This, which was founded only on 

 the figures of Seba and Rumphius, is probably indeterminable, 

 and the Doris of the tenth edition of the Syst. Nat. should, there- 

 fore, not have been retained. 



In the twelfth edition (1767) the genus embraces, beside D. ver- 

 rucosa, which still figures as first species, three other forms, the 

 D. bilamellata, D. Isevis, and D. argo. 



One of these should become the type of the restricted genus 

 Doris, but which ? It would be much better to quite do away 

 with the name Doris as a generic designation (especially as it was 

 also used in auother sense by Linne, for the animal of various 

 shell-bearing mollusks), and under this view the genus Archidoris 

 has been formed. 



This generic group, which is congeneric with the first of the sec- 

 tions established by Alder and Hancock (Monogr. part vii. 1855, 

 p. xvi.) in their systematic prospectus, is rather distinctly marked. 

 The animals are of a rather hard consistency, of a robust, and 

 not much depressed form. The tentacles are formed in folds 

 higher inwards. The openings of the rhinoj)horia are simple. The 

 back more or less granulous and tuberculous. The (retractile) 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 107 



gill composed of (a not large number of) tripinnate leaves. The 

 lip-disk clothed with a simple thick cuticula. The radula with 

 naked rhaehis, the pleurae with numerous hook-shaped uncini. 

 The ventricle is large, free. The penis unarmed. 



The group, so far as yet known, contains but few species. 



1. A. ttiberculata (Cuv.). 



2. A. flammea (A. et H.). 



3. A. montereyensis (Cooper). 



Archidoris Montereyensis (Cooper), Plate XVI. figs. 6, 7. 



Boris Montereyensis, Cooper, on new or rare Moll. inh. the coast of 



Cal.; Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., ii. p. 204, 1863 ; iii. 1868, p. 58.' 

 Archidoris Montereyensis. Bergh, 1. c. p. 624, Taf. LXVIII. fig. 24. 



Color luteus vel ochraceus, supra maculis nigris sparsis et seri- 

 atis notatus. 



Hab. .Mare Pacificum. (Monterey, Cala. to Sitka, Alaska.) 



Four specimens of this form were collected by Bischoff at low 

 water in Sitka Harbor. Two were small and two much larger, 

 but otherwise similar in every respect. No notes have been re- 

 ceived in regard to the living animal. The specimens were sent 

 me in a dried condition. They were of a yellowish or ochraceous 

 3 7 ellow color with a larger or smaller number of roundish black 

 spots on the back, here and there confluent in irregular large 

 patches on the middle of the back, which were nevertheless indis- 

 tinctly arranged in two series. The specimens measured 18.0- 

 40.0 mm. in length, 1 1-24.0 mm. in breadth, and 5-13.0 mm. high. 

 The width of the rhinophorial orifices in the largest specimen 4.U, 

 and of the branchial aperture 10.0 mm. The back was covered, 

 quite as in the typical species, with large and small rounded 

 tubercles, reaching 1.5 mm. in diameter in the largest individual. 

 The foot was large, exactly as in the typical species ; the tentacles, 

 as far as could be determined, of the usual kind. 



In two of the individuals the gill was expanded, and the num- 

 ber of the branchial leaves 80. 



Through the kindness of Mr. Call I have had the opportunity 



1 "Pale yellowish, with scattered black spots (or entirely brown?); 

 mantle rough, tubercnlate, or nearly smooth ; dorsal tentacles knob-shaped ; 

 branchial rays bipinnate, short, in eight divisions, forming a crown-shaped 

 expansion on the posterior third of the dorsum. Foot expanded into a 

 broad, thin margin as wide as the mantle. Length 3", breadth 1", height 

 |"; form elongated oval. 1 ' Cooper, 1. c. 




10S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



of examining a colored drawing of the animal marie by Cooper. 

 The color of the back was here ochre-yellow, with scattered small 

 and some larger black spots ; on the middle of the back especially 

 several larger elongate irregular patches ; the rhinophoria of 

 somewhat more reddish color. In the sill eight leaves. 



Through cautious emollition of one of the larger and one of the 

 smaller individuals the nature of the lip-disk and of the armature 

 of the tongue could be determined. The former was quite as in 

 the typical species. The tongue showed thirteen to fifteen rows of 

 plates ; the number of rows further backward could not be deter- 

 mined with certainty, there seemed to be about fourteen to fifteen 

 developed rows, and the total number of plates thus seemed 

 scarcely to exceed thirty-three to thirty-six. The series seemed 

 to contain about sixty to seventy plates. These plates (figs. 6, 7) 

 were very like those of the typical species, perhaps he hook was 

 a little slenderer; the height of the outermost plates (fig. 7) was 

 commonly about 0.1-0.15, and the height increased through the 

 series of plates to about 0.28 mm. 



Perhaps this form might prove to be merely a variet\ T of the D. 

 tuberculoid. 



CHROMODORIS, Alder and Hancock. 



Cliromodoris, A. and II. Mod. Brit. Nudibr. Moll., vii. p xviii. 1855. R. 

 Bergh, Neue Nacktschn. der Sudsee ii. in Journ. der Mus. Godeffroy, 

 Heft viii. pp 72-82, 1875, and iv. 1. c. Heft xiv. pp. 1-21, 1878. 



Goniobranchus, Pease, Am. Journ. Conch, ii. 1866, p. 204. 



Doriprismatica, A. d'Orbigny (pp.), Moll, des Isles Canaries, 1834, p. 40, 

 note. 



The Chromodorid.ee of Alder and Ilancock, the Goniobranehi of 

 Pease were some years ago (1875) revised by me after careful ex- 

 amination of fourteen species, three of which were then published, 

 the rest more recently (1878). 



Meanwhile I had shown' that the genera Glossodoris, Actino- 

 doris, and Pterodoris, established by Ehrenberg in 1831, should 

 be dropped, being founded on non-essential and inconstant cha- 

 racters of the branchial leaflets of different Ghromodorides. 

 Moreover a part of the genus Doripriamatica, established by 

 D'Orbigny (1834) belongs to this group. The name given by 

 Alder and Hancock must be conserved for this genus. 



1 R. Bergh, Krit. Unt. der Ehrenberg 'schen Doriden, Jahrb. d. D. Malak. 

 Ges. iv. 1877, pp. 52-58. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 109 



In the latest of my cited papers was moreover given a supple- 

 ment to the former list of described or denominated Dorides, that 

 could be referred vvitli more or less probability to this group. The 

 number of species amounted to about ninety. 



In external form the Chromodorides somewhat agree with the 

 Goniodorides, but have much more gay and handsome colors, 

 mostly forming longitudinal stripes. The tentacles are small, 

 conical; the (retractile) rhinophoria with densely perfoliatcd club. 

 The margin of the mantle on the anterior and posterior ends de- 

 veloped in a frontal and a caudal veil, which sometimes shows 

 peculiar knots. 1 The (retractile) gill is formed of simpl}- pinnate 

 plumes, sometimes divided at the top. The foot rather narrow. 

 The lip-disk, with an annular hard lamina, composed of densely 

 set small hooks, mostly bifurcated at the top. In the radula no 

 median plates, but often on the rhachis peculiar thickenings 

 (pseudo-plates). The lateral plates, of ordinary form, nearly 

 always serrulated or denticulated on the margin of the hook. 

 The penis unarmed. 



In the southern part of the Pacific the Chromodorides are repre- 

 sented by a whole series of species ; from the northern part 

 (China) only a few representatives are known ; among the speci- 

 mens sent by Ball only two species were detected, the hitherto 

 known most northern representatives of this group, of which no 

 form has }'et been found in the northern part of the Atlantic. 



Chromodoris Dalli, Bergh, n. sp., Plate XIII. f. 1-7 ; Plate XIV. f. 1-4. 



Hob. Oc. Pacific, sept. (Puget Sound, Washington Territory.) 



An individual of this species was obtained, during the progress 



of the U. S. Boundary Commission, by Dr. Kennerly, the lamented 



naturalist of the U. S. party, in Puget Sound. No notes have 



come to hand in regard to the living animal. 



The animal preserved in spirits was 11.5 mm. long, 5.5 broad, 

 and 4.2 mm. high. The height of the rhinophoria was 1.25 mm., 

 of the tentacula 0.75 mm., of- the branchial leaves 2.0 mm.; the 

 breadth of the mantle margin 1.2 mm., of the foot 2.5 mm., and 

 the length of the tail was 2.5 mm. The ground-color of the back 

 and sides isabelline-gray, everywhere covered with small, and 

 still smaller, coal-black, rounded points about 0.25 mm. in dia- 



' Such knots have been found (by me) in the Ghr. runcinata, picturata, 

 camcena, elegans, glauca, gonaiophora, and Californiemis. 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



meter, which were also visible on the under side of the mantle 

 edge and on the upper side of the foot. The sides were also 

 abundantly furnished with bright yellow points, appearing in 

 smaller number also on the back where they are, for the most part, 

 represented by yellow ocelli with darker yellow pupils. The man- 

 tle-edge had a yellow margin on the upper side ; there was also a 

 fine yellow line along the upper side of the edge of the foot. The 

 stalk of the rhinophoria was gray, the club (grayish) reddish. 

 The branchiae and tentacula grayish-white with a yellow colored 

 rhachis on the outer and posterior edge. 



The branchial leaves with a few scattered black points, the mar- 

 gin of the orifice for the rhinophoria and of the gill cavity embel- 

 lished with a yellow line. 



The form as usual; the mantle edge rather prominent, the 

 frontal and caudal veil not particularly developed (without traces 

 of larger nodules on the under side). The club of the rhinophoria 

 strong, with about thirty broad leaves; the tentacles conical (as 

 it seemed), retractile in a little cavity. The gill consisting of 

 fifteen (PI. XIII. fig. 1) simple plumes; increasing four times in 

 height from the posterior involute end gradually forward. The 

 angles of the anterior margins of the foot not very prominent. 



The intestines not shining through the walls of the body ; the 

 peritoneum colorless. 



The central nervous s}'stem .yellow. The cerebro-visceral ganglia 

 reniform, the two divisions of nearly equal size ; the rounded pedal 

 ganglia a little larger than each of them ; the great commissure 

 not short. The proximal olfactory ganglia of about the same size 

 as the distal (at the root of the club of the rhinophorium), larger 

 than the optic ganglion. The buccal ganglia (PI. XIV. fig. la) 

 larger than the olfactory, of oval form, connected by a rather short 

 commissure ; the gastro-cesojihageal (PI. XIV. fig. lb) rather short 

 stalked, developed on one side of the nerve, small about one- 

 eighth the size of the former, with one large and some smaller 

 cells. The nervi optici rather short. The eye with black pig- 

 ment and a yellow lens. The otoc3 r sts of about the same size as 

 the eyes, the number of otoconia not very large. The leaflets of 

 the rhinophoria and the tentacula without spicule, the skin of the 

 back and the interstitial tissue nearly so. 



The oral tube very large, about 2.0 mm. long by 2.2 mm. in 

 diameter, with strong, internal, longitudinal folds. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



The bulbus pharyngeui 2.5 mm. long by 2.0 mm. broad and 

 high. The radula reddish-gray, freely projecting about 2.5 mm. 

 The armature of the lip-disk broad, rather thick, fine horny-yellow, 

 consisting ( PI. XIII. fig. 2) of rather long (0.06 mm.) hooks, some- 

 what curved at their upper ends and slightly bifurcated at the 

 point (fig. 3). 



The tongue as usual, with about forty rows of teeth, behind 

 which were sixty-six rows of developed, and six rows of immature 

 teeth, the total number being one hundred and twelve. The teeth 

 of yellowish color, except the rhachidian and external uncini, 

 which were nearly colorless. The height of the second lateral 

 (PI. XIV. fig. 2) about 0.035 mm., of the most elevated teeth about 

 0.05 mm., of the outermost uncini 0.025 to 0.03 mm. On the 

 narrow rhaehis was a median pseudo-plate (rhachidian boss) 

 about 0.035 mm. long, pointed anteriorly (PI. XIII. fig. 4; PI. XIV. 

 fig. la) broader and rounded behind (PI. XIII. fig. 5) consisting of 

 a high anterior portion which falls abruptly toward the plain part, 

 slopes gradually towards the fore-end, and is divided by a longi- 

 tudinal groove into two halves (figs. 4, 5). On each side of the 

 median plate twenty-seven to twenty-nine laterals. The lateral 

 teeth of usual form, somewhat low; the (PI. XIV. fig. 2) first with 

 four to five denticulations on each side of the low hook; the rest 

 (figs. 6, 7, 8) with such only on the outer side, mostly with six to 

 seven, more rarely (especially on the inmost plates) with four to 

 five, or at the utmost with eight to nine denticles ; the six outer- 

 most of the usual aberrant form, without denticulations (PI. XIV. 

 fig. 3). 



The salivary glands long, ribband-shaped, whitish. The oeso- 

 phagus as usual ; the intestine filled with large pieces of a Cera- 

 tospongia, mixed with some fragments of the lip-plates and some 

 teeth from the radula. The liver about 6.0 mm. long by 3.0 mm. 

 broad and high, truncate at the fore-end, rounded behind; the 

 substance yellow. 



The renal layer rather thick. The sanguineous gland whitish. 



In the cavities of the hermaphroditic gland were zoosperms. 

 The anterior genital mass about 3.5 mm. long by a height of 3.0 

 and a breadth of 2.0 mm. The ampulla of the hermaphroditic 

 duct rather (about 2.5 mm.) long, yellow. The spermatoduct very 

 long; the first, darker, part forming a large flattened coil, the 

 second passing into the short penis. The spherical spermatotheca 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



(H. XIV fig. 4a) of a diameter of about 1 mm ; the longer sper- 



matocysta forming a long cul-de-sac (fig. 46). The mucous glatid 



whitish, in the neighborhood of the anterior end was a yolk-yellow 



part. 



2. Chromodoris Californiensis, Bergh, n. sp. PI XII. fig. 5 to 15. 



Color caeruleseens, dorso et lateribus punctus fnajoribus aureis 

 ornatus. 



Hab. Oc. Pacific, septentr. (coast of California, Santa Barbara 

 Islands). 



Of this very 'handsome species Uall obtained an individual on 

 alga? at low water in the harbor of Catalina Island, California, 

 January, 1874. (Specimens have also been seen from Monterey 

 and San Diego. W. H. D.) 



The color of the living animal, according to Dall, was " ma- 

 zarin-blue with golden spots" (changing to greenish-blue in the 

 alcohol, which it continues to color for a long time, and after 

 several changes for fresh spirit. W. H. P.). 



The rather contracted animal in spirits was 12.0 mm. long, and 

 6.0 mm. broad and high. The height of the retracted rhinophoria 

 was 1.3 mm., of the retracted branchial plumes 1.5 mm., the length 

 of the tail about 2.5 mm., and the breadth of the foot 2.0 mm. 



The color was uniformly greenish-blue (which it had also given 

 out to the alcohol). On the back were several yellowish-white, 

 round spots, a millimetre in diameter. On the anterior part they 

 were chiefly in the median line, on the rest in two longitudinal 

 series, outside of which on the back were scattered some similar 

 spots and on each side of the body was a line of four or five more 

 of the same kind. A brighter, fine line seemed to border the 

 margin of the mantle-edge and that of the foot. The rhinophoria 

 were green-blue, the gills dark green-blue ; the internal connecting 

 branchial " mesenterium " and the root of the branchial leaves 

 partly silver-white. 



The form as usual. The mantle-edge little prominent except 

 over the head and tail, the breadth on this last part being about 

 1.65 mm.; on the under side of the caudal veil thus formed were 

 six' semi-globular nodules (fig. 5) one full mm. in diameter. The 

 tentacles as usual; the club of the rhinophoria with about twenty 

 leaves. The gills formed of nine leaves of nearly equal size; the 

 anal papilla rather low; posteriorly completing the branchial ring. 

 The peritoneum with a light-bluish hue. The pericardium bluish. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



The central nervous S3^stera as usual, hut less depressed, and of 

 greenish color; the cerebro-visceral ganglia reniform, somewhat 

 broader in front; the distinction between the cerebral and the 

 visceral parts very pronounced, the latter a little smaller than the 

 former; the pedal ganglia rounded, a little larger than the visceral. 

 The buccal ganglia larger than the (proximal) olfactory, roundish, 

 connected by a rather short commissure; the gastro-oesophageal 

 roundish, having about one-tenth of the size of the former, rather 

 short-stalked, developed on one side of the nerve, with one very 

 large and a few smaller cells. The proximal olfactory ganglia 

 rather depressed bulhiform ; the distal ones much smaller, of oval 

 form. 



The lens of the eye was greenish-blue, the pigment brownish- 

 black; the retina bluish. The otocysts were as usual. There 

 were no spiculae in the skin, the leaves of the rhinophoria or the 

 interstitial tissue, which was always of a greenish-blue color. 

 The nodules of the caudal veil resembled those of other species 

 possessing them. 



The oral tube was about 2.5 mm. long, and 1.6 mm. in diameter 

 at the posterior end ; of greenish-blue color throughout. The 

 bulbus pharyngeus of the same or a darker shade, about 3.0 mm. 

 long, by a breadth of 2.5 mm , and a height of nearly 2.0 mm. 



The large sheath of the radnla prominent posteriorly is also 

 about 1.0 mm. in diameter. The lip-plates are of a grayish olive- 

 green color, separated at their upper (fig. 6) and more widely at 

 their lower ends. The plates are scarcely narrower above, the 

 nearly uniform breadth being 1.5 mm. The elements of the plates 

 reach the length of 0.045 mm., with thick, recurved, hooked points 

 (figs. 7-10), these last were seldom cleft (fig. 10). The elements 

 adjacent to the spaces between the plates were much smaller and 

 of irregular form (fig. 0). The tongue was of the usual form, the 

 radula shining like silver and grayish-green in color. In the 

 radula were thirty-five rows of plates, behind which were fifty-one 

 well-formed and six immature rows ; the total amounting to eighty- 

 two rows. In the posterior rows of the tongue were ninety-eight 

 teeth on each side of the narrow and naked rhachis. The teeth 

 had a very pronounced greenish hue ; rising to the height of about 

 0.1 mm., that of the outermost was about 0.04 to 0.06 mm. The 

 form as usual; the hook bifurcated at the point, the outer and 

 posterior branch shorter, denticulated (figs. 11-13), and the den- 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



ticulations continued downwards along the exterior margin of the 

 hook (fig. 13). The innermost teeth (fig. 11) lower and with 

 fewer denticles ; the largest number of teeth generally with about 

 six to eight denticles; the outermost plates (fig. 14) of the usual 

 modified form, sometimes rather irregular (fig. 13). 



The (about 7 mm.) long, ribband-formed salivary glands through 

 their white color contrasted with the green of the adjacent viscera; 

 in their foremost part broader, having a breadth of about 0.6 mm., 

 in the rest of their length thin. 



The liver grayish-green, about 5.5 mm. long, by a breadth of 4 

 and a height of 3 mm.; the substance more yellow. The heart 

 and especially the renal region, of greenish color. The sanguineous 

 glands greenish, much flattened; the anterior linguiform about 

 1.75 mm. long, with a breadth of about 0.6 mm.; the posterior of 

 about the same length, a little broader. The anterior genital mass 

 small, about 2.5 mm. long, b}*" a breadth and a height of 1 mm., 

 of blue-green color, as were the different component organs of the 

 mass. The spermatotheca as usual, spherical ; the spermatocysta 

 shorter than in the former species. The penis as in other species. 



CADLINA, Bergh. 



Corpus sat depressum ; dorsum granulatum, vix asperum ; 

 branchia retractilis, e foliis tripinnatis paucis formata; caput 

 parvum tentaculis brevibus, applanatis, triangularibus quasi; po- 

 darium sat latium, sulco marginali anteriore profundo. 



Armatura labialis lamelliformis, fere annuliformis, e haraulis 

 minutissimus formata. 



Radula rhachide dente denticulato armata, pleuris multiden- 

 tatis ; dentes laterales hamati, externo margine serrulati. 



Glans penis hamulis seriatis armata. 



This genus has been established for a group of Dorididae. with 

 the D. repanda (A. et H.) as type. The Cadlinse 1 have a some- 

 what depressed body with rather'broad mantle-edge ; the back is 

 rather finely granulated ; the gills retractile, consisting of few 

 tripinnate leaves; the opening orifices for the rhinophoria subcre- 

 nulate; the head small, fitting in a groove of the mantla; the 

 tentacles short, lobe-formed ; the foot rather broad, with a strong- 

 furrow in the anterior margin. The nearly annular lip-plate 



1 Laxdala Saga ; Hafuire, 1826, p. 123. 




1819.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



formed of densely set (bifid) hooks The rhachis of the tongue 

 with a depressed plate with a low denticulated hook; the pleurae 

 with a series of hook-shaped teeth, the inner denticulated on both 

 edges; the outer only on the exterior margin. The glans penis 

 armed with rows of small hooks. A spoon-shaped process at the 

 upper wall of the vestibulum. 



Alder and Hancock have given some notes on the nervous and 

 genital systems and on the structure of the radula of the typical 

 species, which has also been the subject of some observations by 

 Meyer and Mbbius. 



Up to the present time only three species of the genus are 

 known, two belonging to the northern part of the Atlantic, the 

 third to that of the Pacific ; nothing is known of their spawn or 

 their biology. 



1. Cadlina repanda (A. & H.). Oc. Atlant. sept. 



2. Cadlina glabra (Friele & Hansen). 



Doris glabra, Pr. & Hans., 1. c. p. 2. Oc. Atlant. sept. 



3. Cadlina Pacijica, Bergb, n. sp. Oc. Pacific, sept. 



1. Cadlina repanda (A. & H.). PI. V. fig. 15 ; PI VI. figs. 21, 22; PI. VII. figs. 

 9-18 ; PL VIII. figs. 3-6. 



Doris repanda, A. & H. Monogr., Part III., 1846, Fani. I. pi. 6 ; Part 



V., 1831, Fara. I. pi. 1, figs. 10, 11; pi. 2, fig. 14, Part VI., 1855, 



app. p. II. pi. 46, suppl. fig. 7. 



Hancock and Embleton, Anat. of Doris, Phil. Trans., 1852, II. p. 212, 



215, 219, 233,' PL XI. fig. 3 ; PI. XII. figs. 11-13 ; PL XIV. fig. 5 ; 



PL XV. fig. 5 ; PL XVI. fig. 10 ; PL XVII. fig. 9. 



Meyer and Moebius, Fauna der Kieler Bucht, II. 1872, p. 68, Taf. fig. 



1-7. 

 Doris Icevis, Fleming. Brit. Anhn., p. 282, 1828. 

 Doris obvelata, Loven, Ind. Moll. Scand., p. 4, 1846. Sars, Reise til 



Lofoten og Finmarken, p. 76, 1851. 



Color lacteus vel luteus, limbo palliali supra maculis luteis vel 

 lacteis distinctus. 



Branchiae e foliolis quinque composita. 



Hab. M. Atlant. sept. 



It is useless to discuss the question, if the D. Isems Linne 

 represents this species; if this in reality was the case, the name 

 of Linnaeus ought to be re-established, as it has been done by 

 Morch 1 (Acanthochila laevis, M.). It is scarcely worth while 



' Cf. Morch, Faunula Moll. Islandise, Naturh. Foren. vidensk. Meddel. 

 1868, p. 202. 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



to try to determine, if the D. laevis should happen to be the D. 

 obvelnta of 0. Pr. Midler, as supposed by Loven. ' In many 

 cases the authors of the present time are unable to determine 

 the species described by authors of late date; it is in most 

 cases still more impossible to determine the species described by 

 elder authors. Better to leave those names of the past to obliv- 

 ion. Science, after all. ought not to take notice of an}* Nudi- 

 branchiate, that was not anatomically examined; as without such 

 examination it is in many cases not possible even to determine 

 the genus, to which in reality the species belongs. The form 

 described and figured by Alder and Hancock as D. repanda is on 

 the contrary determinable, and this name ought to be preserved, 

 although perhaps identical with the elder denominations of Linne 

 and of Miiller. 



Of this species I have had five specimens for anatomical exami- 

 nation; two kindky sent me by Mr. Friele, of Bergen, and obtained 

 in that vicinity; two from Samso, Kattegat, and from the Island 

 of Zeeland (Denmark), and one from the neighborhood of Kiel, 

 for which I am indebted to the friendship, of Prof. Moebius ; the 

 individuals agreed in their internal and external structure. 



The color of alcoholic specimens was uniformly white or yel- 

 lowish-white. The Norwegian specimens were 11-19.0 mm. long, 

 6.5-8.0 mm. broad, and 3.5-0.0 mm. high. The breadth of the 

 foot was 2.0-4.5 mm., of the mantle-edge 1.5-2.5 mm.; the height 

 of the rhinophoria 1.2-2.0 mm., of the gill 1.5-2.5 mm ; the cor- 

 responding measurements of the Danish specimens were 20.0-23 0, 

 14.0-15.0, 8.-9.0, 4.-0.0, 3.5-3.75, and about 2.0 and 3.0 mm. The 

 length of the individual from Kiel was about 8.0 mm. 



The form was rather depressed, the outer part of the mantle- 

 edge not thick. The back was covered all over with small and 

 very small papillae, obtuse or more pointed, low and rounded. 2 



The rhinophorial orifices were not prominent, but were slightly 

 crenulated on the margin. The club showed fifteen to twenty 



1 Loven, Ind, p. 4: "Z>. obvelata, M. (non C. Fabr. non Johnston, non 

 Bouch. Chant.) B. repanda, A. & H. Morch, on the contrary (Faun. 

 Moll. Isl., p. 202) regards the D. obvelata, Moller (Ind. Moll. Gronl.) non 

 Miiller, as identical with the D. repanda of Alder and Hancock. 



2 Xo trace of the characteristic yellow spots was to be seen on the mantle- 

 edge. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



leaflets.' The opening of the branchial cavity rather small (dia- 

 meter 1.5-2 mm.) round, not prominent, with a reflexed and 

 scarcely crenulated margin. The gill consisted of five tripinnate 

 leaflets,'-' the anterior median hardly smaller than the others. The 

 two anterior laterals were often cleft so as to simulate two plumes. 

 The anal tube was short, truncate, situated between the two pos- 

 terior branchial plumes, the renal orifice at the right side. 



The head was small, consisting of the mouth and two small 

 flattened tentacles, with a furrow along their outer margin. The 

 flattened genital papilla furnished with a rather contracted orifice; 

 in its upper part always a more or less (1.0 mm.) projecting trian- 

 gular or spoon-shaped lobe (figs. 21, 22). The foot straight or a 

 little rounded in the forepart, strongly grooved in the margin ; the 

 upper lip slightly cleft in the median line. 3 The peritoneum color- 

 less. The five individuals were dissected. 



The central nervous system showed the cerebral ganglia of 

 rounded-triangular, form, sometimes somewhat elongated, larger 

 than the visceral ones, which are more rounded. In connection 

 with the hind part of the under side of the right cerebral ganglion 

 was a small rounded ganglion (of about 0.07 mm. diameter) pro- 

 minent between the hinder part of the cerebral ganglia, and giving 

 off a long nerve backwards. In connection with the anterior part 

 of the upper side of the cerebral ganglion was an optic ganglion, 

 a little smaller than the former; the n. opticas rather short. In 

 connection with the posterior part of the under side of the visceral 

 ganglion through a rather short nerve is an oblong ganglion geni- 

 tale,* giving off a long nerve to the anterior genital mass (penis?) ; 

 the ganglion containing cells of rather unequal size. The pedal 

 ganglia are situated perpendicularly or oblique to the former, and 

 a little compressed. The commissure rather broad and short, as 

 long as the largest diameter of the pedal ganglion; the proximal 

 olfactory ganglion bulbiform, very short stalked, a little smaller 

 than the buccal ones. No true distal was observed. The visceral 



1 According to A. and H. the number of leaflets is twelve to thirteen, ami 

 to Meyer and Moebius fourteen. 



2 Both A. and H. and Meyer and Moebius mention five plumes. 



3 The markings on the under side of the mantle-brim (cf. Alder and Han- 

 cock, 1. c. fig. 2) were not visible. 



4 This ganglion had already been seen by Hancock and Embleton (1. c. 

 PI. XVII. fig. 9). 




US PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



ganglia were of oval form, connected by a very short commissure ; 

 the gastroesophageal oblong, about one-eighth the size of the 

 last, short stalked, developed on the side of the nerve ; with a 

 sing-le la rare and several smnll cells. 



The eye. showed a yellow lens and deep black pigment. The 

 otocysts visible as chalk-white spots under the loop in the usual 

 position, with about one hundred otoconia of the ordinary kind. 

 There were sparingly scattered calcified spiculae, 0.25-0.30 mm. 

 long, in the broad and rather thick leaves of the rhinophoria, set 

 perpendicularly or obliquely on the free margin of the leaves. 

 The skin was profusely furnished with large and small rod-shaped 

 spiculae, mostly much calcified ; in the axes of the granules of the 

 back were bundles of perpendicular spiculae as usual. In the in- 

 terstitial connective tissue a very few large spicules. 



The oral tube was wide (1.0-2.5 mm. long). The bulbus pha- 

 ryngeus of the usual form, about 1.3-2.25 mm. long, 1.2-2.0 mm. 

 broad, and 1.0-1.75 high. The radula also projected 0.3-0.75 mm. 

 from the posterior part of the under side of the bulbus. The 

 true mouth of triangular form, the point upwards. The lip-plate 

 was deep horn-yellow, narrow at the upper end and broader down- 

 ward at the lowest square part about 0.66 mm. broad ; it is com- 

 posed of densely set hooks^ cleft at the point and rising to the 

 height of about 0.033 mm. (figs. 9, 10). The tongue broad and 

 flat; in the five individuals examined, furnished with twenty-six, 

 twenty-seven, thirty-six, thirty, and fifteen rows of teeth ; further 

 backwards thirty-three, thirty-four, twentj'-eight, tliirty-six, and 

 thirtj^-two rows developed, and four immature rows ; the total 

 number of rows sixty-three, sixty-five, sixty-eight, seventy, and 

 fifty-one. 1 The basal plate of the teeth rather broad (fig. 16), the 

 hook standing nearly perpendicular on it. The median tooth 

 (figs. 11a, 12a, 13) broader on the posterior margin ; the cutting 

 edge of the recurved hook with three to four denticles on each 

 side. The lateral plates 2 in two individuals number only twenty- 

 two to twenty three; in three others twenty-five to twenty-six on 

 the hind part of the tongue, and further backwards twenty-eight 

 to twenty-nine; the three to four foremost rows were always very 



1 According to Alder and Hancock the number of rows is sixty-eight. 

 I found the lowest number in the small individual from Kiel. 



2 The numher was according to Alder and Hancock tw 7 enty-two, and to 

 Meyer and Moebius eighteen. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 119 



incomplete. The first plate with seven to nine denticles at the 

 outer side of the hook, and with three to four on the inner side 

 (figs, llbb, I2bb). The second and third (fig. 14) with broad basal 

 plate, as (figs, 14, 3) also all the succeeding plates without denti- 

 culation of the inner margin ; on the outer edge (PI. V., fig. 15) 

 a certain number of denticles, increasing to twenty or twenty- 

 five. In the outermost part of the rows the number of denticles 

 decreased (fig. 15) ; the outermost plates were of very variable form 

 (figs. 15a, 4a). The height of the outermost plate sometimes only 

 0.007, generally 0.04-0.05 mm., the height of the next plate about 

 0.06, of the next 0.075 mm.; the height rising to about 0.1 mm.; 

 the height of the innermost lateral plate 0.04, of the fifth 0.06 mm. 

 The color of the plates was pale yellow, the outermost colorless. 



The salivary glands strong, whitish or yellowish, flattened, with 

 a breadth of 1.5 mm., forming two to three short coils at the sides 

 of the oesophagus; the duct very short. The oesophag us, as usual, 

 also the stomach. The intestine emerging from the liver (fig. 

 17a) behind the middle of its upper side; the first part proceeding 

 towards the fore end of the liver, in the largest individuals about 

 5.8 mm. long, somewhat wider in the pyloric part, the descending 

 part of the intestine nearly 13-17 mm. long, with a nearly con- 

 stant breadth of 0.75-1 mm. The liver (in the largest indivi- 

 duals) about 1.3-15.0 mm. long, b} r a breadth of 7-70, and a 

 height of 6-7.5 mm.; about half of the light anterior part strongly 

 flattened for the reception of the anterior genital mass, the pos- 

 terior end rounded ; the color of the surface yellowish-white, the 

 substance (when cut) yellow. The biliary sac whitish, very dis- 

 tinct (fig. 176) on the surface of the liver, about 2 mm. long, 

 laying at the anterior end of the pyloric part of the intestine, on 

 the right side. 



The heart and renal chamber as usual ; the last white, very 

 large, reaching to the fore-end of the liver. The sanguineous 

 gland whitish, very flattened, about 3.5-5.0 mm. in largest dia- 

 meter, covering the central nervous system. The yolk-yellow 

 hermaphroditic gland covering the upper and right side of the 

 liver (fig. 17cc) occasionally with groups of lobes scattered on the 

 under side, but never forming a nearly continuous layer over the 

 liver. The structure was as. usual, with large oogene cells and 

 zoosperms in the lobules. The anterior genital mass large, in 

 the largest specimens 8-8.5 mm. long, 3.5-4.0 mm. broad, and 




120 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



6-7.0 mm. high, ovoid, plano-convex, flattened on the left side. 

 The ampulla of the hermaphroditic duct usually crossed over the 

 left side, whitish, sausage-shaped, 6-7 mm. long, bj - 1.1-2.0 mm. 

 in diameter. The windings of the spermatoduct rested on the 

 anterior margin of the genital mass, the first part thicker but not 

 much longer than the rest, which was thinner and stronger (in 

 the largest individual 7-10.0 mm. long). A stricture unites the 

 two parts, the last passing without definite limits into the nearly 

 cylindrical or elongate-conical (retracted) penis, which was about 

 1.5-2.5 mm. long, the somewhat elongated glans being straight or 

 curved, 0.5-0.6 mm. in length, by 0.08-0.1 mm. in diameter (fig. 

 18). It was furnished with irregularly set (fig. 5) rows of pale- 

 yellowish hooks, which rose to a height of about 0.016 mm. They 

 were straight or curved, sometimes irregular or connate (figs. 5, 

 6), mostly solitaiy, yet sometimes arranged in small groups 

 (tig. 6); the sperm duct continued (fig. 18a) through the whole 

 length of the glans to the round orifice on the point of the 

 glans ; there was no continuation of the armature of the glans 

 backwards over a longer portion of the sperm duct. The sperma- 

 totheca spherical, about 2-3-0 mm. diameter; its own duct a little 

 longer than the leg, rather wide, then uniting with the thinner 

 and somewhat longer (and wider at the union) duct of the sper- 

 matoc<j*to, which was also round and of the diameter of 1-1.5 

 mm.; both organs resting upon the anterior margin of the mucus 

 gland; the vagina about as long as, and a little wider than, the 

 special duct of the spermatotheca. 1 The large mucous gland 

 j-ellowish-white or yellow; the opaque part on the upper part of 

 left side Vellow or brownish ; the cavity empty. 



2. Cadlina pacifica, Bergh, n. sp. Plate VII. figs. 19, 20; PI. VIII. figs. 7-18. 

 t 

 Color crerulescente albidus. 



Branchia e foliolis novem composita. 



Hob. Oc. Pacific, sept. (Captain's Ba} T , Unalashka, and Coal 

 Harbor, Shumagin Ids.). 



Pall obtained a living specimen of this species at Captain's 

 Bay, Unalashka, in May, 1872, at 1ow t water and on rocky bottom. 

 The color of the living animal he states to have been "bluish- 

 white." 



The alcoholic specimen was of a uniform yellowish color, with 



1 Hancock and Einbleton, 1. c. 1852, PI. XV., fig. 5. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



a slight tinge of olive. The rhinophoria and branchiae of deeper 

 yellow. It was about 28.0 mm. long, 13 mm. broad, and 7.0 

 mm. high; the foot 7.0 and the free mantle edge 3.0 mm. broad. 

 The rhinophoria 2.5 mm. and the branchial leaflets 3.5 mm. high. 

 It was of rather depressed elongate form ; the mantle margin 

 rather broad. The back covered all over with rather small com- 

 pressed or rounded densely set tubercles, which often coalesced, 

 forming short longitudinal folds. These nearly disappeared at 

 the margin of the mantle. The rhinophorial orifices situated 

 rather forward with several tubercles on their margins, the club 

 of the rhinophoria with twelve to fifteen large and very oblique 

 leaves. The opening of the branchial cavity (the branchial leaves 

 retracted) was a longitudinal slit of about 4 mm. in length, and 

 rather narrow; the margin of it with tubercles of the usual kind. 

 The" branchial leaves nine in number, four lateral pairs and one 

 anterior unpaired, tripinnate. The anal tube low, with two 

 (lateral) lips (fig. 19); the renal pore in front of and at its right 

 side. The outer mouth a small longitudinal slit; the tentacles 

 very small, with a furrow at the upper part of their outer margin. 

 The under side of the mantle edge even ; a small deep groove for 

 the head. The sides of the body rather low; the genital opening 

 round, with at least two openings in its depth. The foot rounded 

 at the fore end with traces of a fine furrow, the posterior end 

 somewhat pointed. 



The intestines where visible through the skin. The peritoneum 

 colorless, nearly without spicula. 



The central nervous system showed the cerebral and the vis- 

 ceral ganglia very distinct; the cerebral short, reniform, a little 

 broader in the anterior part, a little larger than the buccal, bulbi- 

 form, short-stalked; the optic ganglia scarcely equal to one-tenth 

 of the size of the latter; the optic nerve short. The visceral 

 ganglia short, pyriform ; on the under side of the right hand are 

 a short-stalked genital ganglion, intermediate in size between 

 the optic and olfactory ganglia. The pedal ganglia nearly per- 

 pendicular oh the under side of and a little smaller than the vis- 

 ceral. The commissures rather short, the visceral nearly free 

 from the broad subcerebro-pedal. 



The buccal ganglia rounded and connected by an extremely 

 short commissure. The gastro-oesophageal short stalked, ovoid, 

 9 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



about one-eighth the size of the former, developed on one side of 

 its nerve with one very large and several smaller cells. 



The eye provided with black pigment, and a yellow lens. The 

 otocysts in their usual place, filled with ordinary otoconia. The 

 broad leaves of the rhinophoria with a rather large quantity of 

 spicula, generally set obliquely or perpendicularly on the free 

 margin. The spicula mostly rod-shaped, long, and much calcified. 

 These also occur abundantly in the skin of the back, often asso- 

 ciated in small groups. The tubercles of the back were stiffened 

 in the ordinary way, but there were very few spicules of the larger 

 kind in the interstitial tissue. 



The oral tube was about 2.5 mm. long, 1.8 mm. wide at the 

 posterior end, internally as usual ; the retractor muscles very 

 strong. The bulbus pharyngeus strong, about 3.0 mm. long, 2.5 

 mm. broad, and 2.1 mm. high. The sheath of the radula project- 

 ing about 1 mm., bent upwards. The lip-disk rather broad ; the lip- 

 plate broad, broadest below, yellow; the lateral parts with several 

 transverse folds; the elements (fig. 7, 8) scarcely different from 

 those of the typical species, or perhaps a little less crooked, of a 

 height of about 0.05 mm.; the mouth, of triangular form, quite 

 as in the C. repanda. The tongue of usual form with about thirty- 

 three rows of plates ; further back forty-eight developed, and four 

 immature rows; the total number of them eighty-five; the first 

 ten rows of the tongue more or less incomplete. 1 The number of 

 lateral plates in the hinder row of the tongue thirty-three, the 

 number scarcely increasing in the sheath. The plates of yellowish 

 color; the breadth of the oldest plate (in the hinder part) 0.045 

 mm., the breadth of these plates increasing to 0.06 mm.; the 

 height of the outermost plates about 0.04, and the height of the 

 lateral plates increasing to about 0.12 mm. The plates of nearly 

 the same form as in the last species. The median plate a little 

 emarginated in the posterior margin; the short recurved hook 

 usually with 3-4 denticles on each side of the point (fig. 9, 10a), 

 sometimes this point was replaced by two single or bifid larger 

 denticles (fig. 9). The first lateral plate (fig. 1066) with 5-6 den- 

 ticles at the inside, and with 6-7 at the outside of the hook. 

 Through the 4-6 following plates (fig. 10) the size of the plates 



1 The progression was as follows, 611, 413, 617, 10112, 

 20118, 22119, etc. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



and the number of denticles did not much increase, after which 

 both gradually increased as usual (figs. 11-13). Still the number 

 of denticles in the individual examined hardly exceeded 18-22, 

 and was still smaller in the outer portion of the rows (fig. 15). 

 The three or four outer plates were of rather variable form (figs. 

 14-15) generally without denticles or only traces of them (figs. 

 14aa, 15a). 



The salivary glands were yellowish, flattened, riband-shaped, 

 10.0 mm. long, with a greatest breadth in the anterior part of 1.0 

 (fig. 20) ; the glands adhering to one another through more than 

 the posterior half; the ducts short (fig. 20a). The oesophagus 

 about 9.0 mm. long, rather thin, and somewhat broader in the 

 middle. The stomach narrow. The intestine appeared at the 

 surface of the liver behind the middle of that organ, was about 

 5.5 mm. long, reaching to the second fifth of that organ. The 

 reflected part was about 14.0 mm. long, and the alimentary cavity 

 was empty. 



The liver 14.0 mm. long, reaching G.O mm. in breadth and 5.3 

 mm. in height. The posterior end rounded, somewhat pointed, 

 more than half the right anterior portion flattened for the anterior 

 genital mass. The surface was gra} r ish-yellow, the substance 

 deeper yellow. The vesica fellea smaller than in the typical 

 species, appearing at the right side of the pyloric part of the in- 

 testine with a rounded upper end about 1.5 mm. in diameter. 



The heart as usual. The sanguineous gland whitish, flattened ; 

 about 6 mm. long, with a breadth in the posterior half of 3.5 mm. 

 in the anterior of scarcely 2.0 mm., its thickness about 0.5 mm., 

 covering the largest part of the central nervous system. The 

 urinary chamber large. 



The hermaphroditic gland yolk-yellow, spread over the fore- 

 part of the liver, over the anterior part of its upper side and over 

 the lateral parts of this organ ; in its lobules were large oogene- 

 cells. The anterior genital mass large, about 9.5 mm. long, nearly 

 6.5 mm. high, and 4.5 mm broad, oval plano-convex. The yellow- 

 ish hermaphroditic duct issued from about the middle of the 

 applanation on the forepart of the liver, rather strong, swelling 

 into the } r ellow ampulla that runs in short windings over the left 

 side of the anterior genital mass to its anterior end ; the length 

 of the unrolled ampulla was about 9.0 mm., its diameter only 0.1 

 mm. The spermato-duct with its windings resting on the ante- 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



rior margin of the genital mass; its first part about 15.0 mm. 

 long with a diameter of about 1.0 mm., yellowish, passing through 

 a slight stricture into the second, which has only half the length 

 and half the diameter and is of a paler color. The penis nearly 

 4.0 mm. long, and 1.5 mm. in diameter. The glans in the upper 

 end of the cavity having a length of nearlj- 1.0 mm. (fig. 17); 

 the cuticula clothing the inside of it seemed to present hooks 

 similar to those in the typical species, but fewer and thinner (fig. 

 18). The spermatotheca spherical, about 3.0 mm. in diameter; 

 its duet as usual. The spermato-cysts spherical, about 1.6 mm. 

 in diameter. The ducts as usual, the cavity filled with sperma. 

 The mucus gland large, whitish, and yellowish-white; on the an- 

 terior part of the left side was a 3-olk-yellow mass, the large 

 cavity empty. The spoon-shaped lobe in the vestibulum had a 

 length of nearly 2.0 mm. 



Since the above observations were made two other individuals 

 of the same species have come under my notice. They were 

 obtained by Dall in September, 1872, at Coal Harbor, Shumagin 

 Islands, Alaska, on a muddy beach at low water. The color of 

 the living animal was "bluish." 



The specimens in spirits were 8.0 and 14.0 mm. long, 6.0 and 

 10.0 mm. broad, 3.5 and 5.0 mm. high respectively, and of yellow- 

 ish color. The form as above. 



The opening of the retracted gill transversely oval, as above 

 mentioned, the gill with 8-9 leaves. The anal papilla as above. 

 Both specimens were dissected. 



The central nervous system, the eyes, the oto-cysts, and the skin 

 quite as above mentioned. The oral tube about 1.5 mm. long. 

 The bulbus pharyngeus in the largest individual about 1.75 mm. 

 long, and 1.5 mm. broad and high. The sheath of the radula rather 

 prominent, bent upwards. The mouth-slit triangular; the lip- 

 plates chocolate-brown in the larger, yellow in the smaller indi- 

 vidual ; the structure as usual. The hooks in general a little 

 thicker at the point. The tongue with twent\'-seven te thirty 

 rows of plates ; further backwards thirty-six to thirty-nine freshly 

 developed and four immature rows; the total number of rows 

 was sixtj'-seven to seventy-three rows. In the posterior rows of 

 the tongue twenty-seven to thirty plates. The plates as previ- 

 ously mentioned; the median tooth (lig. 9) merely broader in the 

 hind part of the basal plate 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 125 



The salivary glands, the oesophagus, the stomach, and the in- 

 testine as above. The liver was in length 8.5, in breadth 4.25, 

 and in height 4 mm.; the applanation on the right anterior part 

 shorter than above. The vesica fellea as above. The sanguine- 

 ous gland and the urinary chamber as above. 



The hermaphroditic gland with its yellow lobes clothing the 

 largest part of the fore-end and the upper side of the liver. The 

 anterior genital mass about 4.5 mm. long, 3.0 in height, and 2.0 mm. 

 broad. The ampulla of the hermaphroditic duct as above, also the 

 spermato-duct and the penis, which was about 2.0 mm. long. The 

 glans short, its opening and interior clothed with an armature ; 

 this last only extended over a total length of about 0.8 mm.; the 

 hooks (fig. 18) pale yellowish, as above, rising to a height of about 

 0.016 mm. The spermatotheca and spermatocysta as above, 

 and also the spoonshaped lobe in the vestibulum. 



Note. Should the reader find any errors of proof-reading in the preceding 

 paper, he will bear in mind that Dr. Bergh has not been able to correct the 

 proofs in person and make due allowances, though it is hardly necessary to 

 remark that the utmost pains have been taken to avoid any such errors. 

 W. H. D. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES. 



An asterisk denotes that-the drawing is by camera lucida, the 

 fraction denotes the magnification. 



Plate I. 



Aeolidia papulosa (L.) var. Pacifica. 



1. Mandible from the inside,* "; a, crista connectiva ; b, pro- 



cessus masticatorius. 



2. Part of the masticating edge,* -f 5 . 



3. Two teeth from the 'radula,* *. 



4. Another from the side,* 1 y 2 . 



5. Penis ; a, ductus ejaculatorius. 



6. Cnkhe,* ^p. 



Fiona marina (Forskal) var. Pacifica. 



7. Two teeth from the radula from above,* ^p. 



8. The hook of the same,* ^p. 








126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18T9. 



Hermissenda opalescens (Cooper). 



9. Mandible,* " ; a, c?*ista connectiva ; &, process, mastic. 



10. Part of the masticating edge ;* a, superior (anterior) part ; &, 



posterior part, 5 y fi . 



11. Inferior margin of the hook of a tooth,* ~. 



12. Cnida?,* *p. 



Coryphella s\y. 



13. Hind part of masticating edge from the inside;* a, posterior 



part, iM. 



14. Part of the radula ;* aa, lateral teeth, ^-p. 



Flabellina iodinea (Cooper). 



15. Anterior part of the posterior third of the masticating edge,* 



1 



16. A lateral tooth, from the side,* ^-p. 



IT. A lateral tooth,* *p. 



Dendronotus purpureus, Bergh. 



18. Elements of the prehensile collar,* ^p. 



19. Part of the middle of the collar,* *M. 



20. Elements of the posterior part of the collar,* ^p. 



Dendronotus Dalli, Bergh. 



21. Exterior part of a row of teeth ;* a, outer tooth, ^p. 



Plate II. 



Hermissenda opalescens (Cooper). 



1. Three plates of the radula, from one side,* ^~. 



2. Two ditto, a little oblique, from above,* ^-p. 



3. Two of the anterior teeth,* ^p. 



4. The hook of the hindmost developed plate,* -p. 



5. A lobe of the hermaphroditic gland,* ^p ; a, efferent duct. 



6. Penis; a, spermatoduct ; bb, prseputium ; e, glans with its 



orifice. 



Corypjhella sp. 



7. The right mandible from the outside,* "; a, the articulation; 



&, the cutting process. 



8. The hinder part of the cutting edge from the outside,* ^P ; a, 



posterior part. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



Dendronotus Dalli, Bergh. 



9. The tongue and its muscular mass (c) from the side; 6, radula ; 



c, tectum radulse. 

 10. The same from above; a, superior end of the radula; 66, 



muscular masses of the tongue; c, end of the descending 



sheath of the radula. 

 ] 1. Anterior rhachidian tooth, from above,* ^. 

 1*2. The same, from below,* ^. 



Dendronotus arborescens (0. F. Mull.). 



13. Hinder part of the cutting edge;* a, youngest part, ^p. 



14. Hook of a rhachidian tooth,* 3 p. 



15. A group of (5) follicles of the hermaphroditic gland, a, efferent 



duct,* iM. 



Flabellina iodinea (Cooper). 



1G. Part of three rows of plates, from above ;* a, rhachidian 

 6, lateral plates, 3 \. 



Plate III. 



Dendronotus arborescens (F.). 



1. Four lateral teeth ;* aa, doubled tooth, ^. 



Dendronotus Dalli, Bergh. 



2. The left mandible from the inside;* a, crista connectiva ; 6, 



superior process; c, processus masticatorius, ". 



3. The same with the same lettering,* ~. 



4. A part of the masticating edge,* ^f 2 . 



5. Thirteen outer plates of one of the posterior rows of the 



radula;* a, outermost plate, 3 ,. 

 G. A rhachidian tooth or plate from behind, ^p. 



Dendronotus purpureus, Bergh. 



7. The masticating process;* a, the point, ~. 



8. Median plate from the upper side,* ~-. 



9 Two median plates from the under side,* 3 p. 



10. The serrations of the right side of the median plate,* . 



11. Three lateral plates,* 4*. 



12. (a) Anterior part of the salivary gland ;* 6, duct, ~ 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



Tritonia tetraquetra (Pallas). 



13. aa, the foot; b, the corner of the frontal veil ; c, margin of the . 



genital opening; d, penis with the opening of the mucus 

 gland under its root. 



14. A branchial leaf or plume. 



15. a, the anal papilla; b, the renal pore. 



16. Part of the cutting edge of the processus masticator ius, ^. 



Plate IV. 



Dendronotus arborescens (0. F. Miiller). 



1. Masticating edge of the jaw, posterior end,* -. 



2. Elements of the prehensile collar,* ^|o. 



3. Point of the penis ; a, orifice,* ^. 



4. Penis;* d, vas deferens; b, point of the organ, ^. 



Tritonia tetraquetra (Pallas). 



5. Part of the cuticle of the frontal veil. 



6. The buccal ganglia, with b the right gastroesophageal 



ganglion,* ^. 



7. The mandibles from in front ;* a, articulation ; b, j^ocessus 



masticator iu s. 



8. 8. Teeth from the middle of the radula, parts of three rows, 



seen obliquely from above ;* aa, median teeth ; bbb, first 

 laterals from the left side ; cc, same of the right side ; dd, 

 second laterals of the left side, ^. 



9. Lateral teeth from the middle of a row,* ^p. 



10. Outer teeth (6-9) of two rows;* aa, the outermost; b, fold 



of the cuticula, ^p. 



11. Outer teeth (5-4) of two rows; a and b as above, ^. ' 



12, 12. Doubled (monstrous) teeth of two rows,* ~. 



Akiodoris hdescens, Bergh. 



13, 13. Spicula of the skin.* 



Plate V. 

 Tritonia tetraquetra (Pallas). 

 1. Pvhachis or median part of the radula, with part of three rows 

 of teeth ;* aa, rhachidian teeth ; bb, first lateral teeth ; cc, 

 second laterals, ^y 2 . 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



2. Middle part of a row;* a, rhachidian with 12 laterals; b, 



twelfth lateral, *fi. 



Diauhda Sandiegensis (Cooper). 



3. Papillae of the back. 



4. Outer part of two rows of teeth with 6-8 teeth ;* aa, outermost 



teeth, Sffi. 



5. Inner part of two rows ;* aa, first teeth, ^. 



Diaulula Sandiegensis (C.) var. 



6. Two innermost teeth,* ~ . 



7. 7. Outer part of two rows 'with 5 and 2 teeth;* aa, outermost, 



3 n 



8. a, first part of the spermato-duct ; 6, prostate ; c, spermato- 



duct ; d, penis ; e, vestibulum genitale. 



9. Penis opened with the glans and spermato-duct. 



Lamellidoris bilamellata (L.) var. Paoifica. 



10. Dorsal papilla},* 1 ;'. 



Akiodoris lutescens, Bergh. 



1 1 . Dorsal papilla,* if*. 



12. Spicula from the rhinophoria,* ~. 



13. Glans penis from the side. 



14. Glaus penis from the end. 



Cadlina repanda (A. & H.). 



15. Lateral tooth from behind,* 1 ~. 



Plate VI. 



Akiodoris lutescens, Bergh. 



1. Median part of a row of teeth ;* a, rhachidian ; bb, first lateral ; 



cc, second lateral; d, third lateral, 3 -~. 



2. The rest of the same row;* e, the fourth tooth; /, the thir- 



teenth, ^p. 



3. The rhachidian tooth, obliquely,* ^-. 



4. a, first, and 6, second lateral teeth from one side,* ~. 



5. First tooth, anterior margin, from above,* 3 ~. 



6. a, first, and 6, second tooth from behind,* 3 J-. 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



7, 8. Third and fourth teeth from beneath,* ^|. 



9, 10. Fourth and fifth teeth obliquely from the side,* *|". 



11. The fifth tooth from above,* ^. 



12, 13. The seventh and eighth teeth from below,* ^. 



Akiodoris luteseens, Bergh, var. 



14. Rhachidian tooth from below,* 3 \. 



15. First lateral tooth of two rows,* 3 \. 



16. The sixth tooth from one side,* ^-p. 



17. a, the ventricle; fr, the proceeding intestine; c, the biliary 



sac : c?, the liver. 



18. a, yellowish part of the spermato-duct; b, thinner continua- 



tion ; c, penis; d, duct of the sperraatotheca ; e, vagina of 

 vestibulum. 



19. a, spermatotheca; &, spermatoc} r sta; c, long duct of the mucus 



gland ; d, diict of the vagina, directly continuous with d of 

 fig. 18. 



20. Longitudinal section of the wall of the glans penis;* the hooks 



partly broken off and their sockets naked, if 9 . 



Cadlina repanda (A. and H.). 



21. Spoon-shaped process of the upper part of the vestibulum 



from below. 



22. The same from above. 



Plate YII. 



Akiodoris lutescens, Bergh. 



1. Upper part of the interior of the glans;* a, outer wall, ^. 



2. Part of the covering of the glans with its hooks,* ^f 2 . 



3. Covering, with hooks, from the anterior end of the inverted 



part of the glans;* a, posterior; 6, more anterior por- 

 tions, ^p. 



4. Similar hooks from the anterior part,* -\-. 



5. Anterior end of spermato-duct and posterior part of the in- 



verted penis;* aa, walls of the spermato-duct; 6, end of the 

 same ; e, most posterior part of the penis with its hooks, 1 ~. 



6. Covering of the vagina with its rod-like palisades ;* at a and 



other places they have been torn away, leaving only their 

 stiff axes, -p. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



7. Similar covering with well preserved " palisades,"* 4'". 



8. Elements of the same,* ~. 



Cadlina repanda (A. and H.). 



9. Elements of the buccal plate from above,* 1 j 9 . 



10. The same from the side,* ". 



11. The median part of the radula;* a, median tooth; 66, first 



laterals, ^f 2 . 



12. The same with four median teeth,* a and 6, as above, ^y 5 . 



13. A median tooth,* *. 



14. Third lateral tooth from the side,* ^p. 



15. Outer part of four rows, with one to three teeth;* a, outer- 



most tooth, ^n- 



16. Median part of the radula from below ;* a, median teeth, ^. 



17. a, pyloric part of the intestine; b, the vesica fellea; c, lobes 



of the hermaphroditic gland. 



18. Everted glans penis;* a, continuation of the armed cuticle of 



the anterior part; 6, interior of the spermato-duct, ~. 



Cadlina Pacijica, Bergh. 



19. The anal papilla. 



20. Anterior part of the salivary gland; a, duct. 



Plate VIII. 

 Akiodoris lutescens, Bergh. 



1. Part of the radula with three to six rows of teeth;* a, 



rhachidian tooth; 6, first lateral; c, second; d, third; <?, 

 fourth, &p. 



2. The remainder of these three rows of teeth ;* from a, the fifth, 



to the twelfth and outermost tooth, ^p. 



Cadlina repanda (A. and H.). 



3. The seventeenth to the twentieth teeth of two rows,* ~. 



4. The outermost teeth of seven rows,* -f 



5. Part of the glans penis,* 1 ^ A . 



6. Some of its isolated hooks,* . 



'50 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



Cad! in a Pacifica, Bergh. 



7. Elements of the lip-plate or buccal plate. 



8. The same in another part,* L ^. 



9. Three rhachidian teeth,* ^. 



10. Median part of the radula ;* a, median plates ; 66, first laterals ; 



c, fourth lateral, "A 



1 1. Side view of a lateral tooth from the outer side,* 1 ~^. 



12. The same from the inner side,* 7 J. 



13. Largest lateral tooth,* ^p. 



14 Outer plates (teeth) of four rows;* aa, the outermost, . 



15. Four outer plates of one row;* a, the outermost, ~. 



16. Part of the cuticle with its spicula,* -^p. 



17. Theglans penis,* ^. 



18. Part of the penis,* *f. 



Jorunna Johnstoni (A. and H.). 



19. Lateral tooth,* ^. 




1871' ] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



ON A NEW GENUS AND SPECIES OF SCOMBRIDiE. 

 BY W. N. LOCKINGTON. 



Since D. W. B. Ayres, between the years 1854 and 1863, de- 

 scribed nearly seventy species of fishes from the West Coast of 

 N. America, principally from the neighborhood of- San Francisco, 

 until my own scattered notes appeared in the Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci. 

 1876, very little has been done in ichthyology by naturalists resi- 

 dent on this coast. In 1863-1864, Dr. J. G. Cooper, at that time 

 attached to the Geological Survey of Cal., described eight species; 

 and about the same time Mr. A. Garret, during a visit to this coast, 

 described a Muraenoid fish in a paper principally devoted to the 

 fishes of the Sandwich Islands. All these papers were published 

 in vol. iii. of the Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci. 



Meanwhile the ichthyology of this coast has received careful 

 attention from Gill, Giinther, and Steindachner, the last of whom 

 visited us with the Hassler Expedition, resided here a short time^ 

 and took away with him numerous specimens. 



It has for some time been my endeavor to collect together and 

 identify such of the species described by the above authors, and 

 by Girard in vol. x. of the Pac. Kail. Reports, as occur in or near 

 the Bay of San Francisco, and to add to our knowledge of them 

 whatever information I can collect respecting their distribution, 

 life-colors, variations, etc. 



In so doing I have meet with the following new form. 



CHRIOMITRA, nov. gen. 



Body elongate, fusiform, cleft of mouth wide. First dorsal sepa- 

 rated from the second by an -interspace, seven or more spurious 

 fins behind dorsal and anal. No corselet or pectoral region, body 

 naked or covered with small scales. Teeth of moderate strength 

 in the jaws, none on the vomer or palatines. A longitudinal keel 

 on each side of tail. Seven branchiostegals. Dorsal spines 15. 

 Pectoral fins inserted at the level of the eye. This genus is dis- 

 tinguished from Scomber by the greater number of the finlets, 

 and by the want of a uniform covering of scales; from Orcynus 

 and Sarda by the absence of a corselet, and the presence of an 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



interval between the two dorsals; from Cybium by the latter 

 character; and from all these genera by the absence of teeth on 

 either vomer or palatines. From Auxin it differs in the absence 

 of a corslet, in the larger size of the teeth, and in the greater 

 number of dorsal spines. Etymology, xpsta want, ixtrpa. stomacher, 

 viz., corslet. 



Chriomitra concolor, sp. nov. 



D. 15 17, VII. A. 1 17, VIII. 



Teeth in a single row, triangular, compressed, those of lower 

 jaw largest, none near the symphysis, fceven or eight finlets be- 

 hind the dorsal, eight behind the anal; pectoral one-eighth of the 

 total length to the end of the central caudal rays, ventrals small, 

 in length less than |th of the pectorals. 



Description. Dorsal outline a regular gentle curve from snout 

 to tail, ventral outline similar to that of dorsal. 



Cleft of mouth slightly oblique, maxillary reaching to a vertical 

 from the hinder margin of the eye; its anterior part concealed 

 behind the preorbital when the mouth is closed. 



Jaws equal in front, teeth in a single row on the jaws, none on 

 the vomer or palatines. Teeth in lower jaw larger than those in 

 upper, compressed at base, gently curved inwards ; those in upper 

 jaw much smaller, compressed, triangular, straight. 



Length of head slightly exceeding the greatest depth, and con- 

 tained about five times in the total length. 



Eye slightly oval, its longitudinal diameter contained seven 

 times in the length of the head; snout a little more than one-third 

 of the same length, tapering regularly to the tip; and convex 

 above, as is also the whole upper surface of the head. 



Hinder margin of preoperculum with a long shallow sinus, its, 

 lower angle extending a little farther back than its upper extremity; 

 lower border almost straight, horizontal. Hinder margin of oper- 

 culum and suboperculum a regular curve. 



Distance from tip of snout to origin of first dorsal contained 

 about 4^ times in the length to end of central part of caudal ; its 

 length of base very slightly less than its distance from tip of 

 snout. Second, third, and fourth dorsal spines highest, thence 

 diminishing rapidly in height to the tenth, the remainder short 

 and apparently isolated. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



All the spines are exceedingly slender and fragile; the longest 

 are about equal to one-third the length of the head. 



Interspace between the two dorsals about one-fourth of the 

 length of the base of the first dorsal. 



Second dorsal commencing halfway between the tip of the snout 

 and the origin of the caudal, increasing rapidly in height to the 

 fourth, which is equal to the sixth, and slightly shorter than the 

 fifth, the fifth a little less than half the length of the head. The 

 rays diminish rapidly in height to the eleventh, which is about 

 half as long as the fifth ; the remaining rays decrease slowly to 

 the last, which simulates a finlet. 



Anal similar in form to second dorsal, but its rays somewhat 

 shorter than the corresponding dorsal ones. 



Pectoral pointed, the rays diminishing very rapidly from the 

 fourth to the eleventh from its upper margin; the 11th to 15th 

 rays nearly equal, remaining rays very rapidly shortening. Centre 

 of base of pectoral in a line with a line drawn from the tip of the 

 snout through the centre of the pupil. 



Ventrals very small, less than two-fifths as long as the pectorals. 

 Length of inner side of upper lobe of caudal a little less than 

 fth of the length of the fish (to end of middle caudal rays) ; lower 

 lobe slightly shorter. Lateral line diverging gradually from the 

 dorsal outline as far as the origin of the second dorsal, where it 

 lies slightly below the upper third of the height, thence curving 

 downwards rapidly to a vertical from the front of the first dorsal 

 finlet, thence in an undulating line along the centre of the depth 

 to the caudal keel. 



A low keel, convergent posteriorly, above and below the central 

 keel of the caudal peduncle. 



Long narrow scales on the region behind the eye, along each 

 side of the dorsal outline, and on the peduncle of the tail ; re- 

 mainder of body naked. 



Color of the upper portions dark steel blue, becoming silvery 

 below; no streaks. 



The specimen in the possession of the Cal. Acad, of Sciences 

 was obtained in San Francisco Market, and was probably taken, 

 as were previously examined specimens of this species, in Monte- 

 rey Bay. It is said to occasionally straggle as far north as San 

 Francisco, or even Tom ales Bay. 




136 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1879. 



Total length to cud of middle rays of caudal 



Length of head 



Greatest depth of body about 



Longitudinal diameter of eye 



Length of snout 



Width between orbits . 



From tip of snout to origin of first dorsal 



Length of base of ditto . 



From tip of snout to origin of second dorsal 



" " " anal 

 Length of pectoral 

 Length of upper lobe of caudal, along posterior margin 

 Length of ventrals 




I'.i// .'i A'.iyi/ iv .l/.i,r//.t 



ir,i,h/, r . // / 



3. 



















f 



j.. 



$ 



^ vl Wftt 1 Vln</i>"t 



( j3. 



-"I 



'.s-C~- ----- 





<* / 



^7- 



10. 



' 



m 







j8. 



\v 





21 . 



/ 'r,'//,//,f papUlosa / i>iir. pmtf'icii Jo 24- (hrj/p7it-7l<T Sp\ 



7 8. It. /tit ynarina ForsH lolj. IZabeltina iodatea Cooper . 



i) JU. //, r//i ',*.< r/f>/it i>/'if/i:iii//,r (Cooper). 28 20. Jtendron . purpztreuf .Ugh 



" "".v* 21 J). .PaV/z . j3</7i . 





',///.'< A'.iy/ in sl/.i.\/,-<i 



7- 



Nu.Ubr FIJI.. 



~7~ 





' 







4- 



6. 



y 



9 



J2 . 



-J, 



"V 



*^ 



j3 



*4 







j I- . (> //c/'iiis.v, //</, i iy>,i /.:y,<-/i.y (r>,>f>er). p 12. DcndrOTUttua J>ti7/{ . Ji</7> 



Mi Flo h iodine* C. . ., r r ,, s , n 





/),'//'.! A'.iy/. i .//,'.iA:r 



6". 



' 



Nu,h/,r . /'/ /// 



7 



*4 



\ 



/ 







{ 



I 







V 







16 



m5. 



* 1. 



i3. 











/' /-'r ';.,'/. 



/ /V//,//vj notti. i' arhorettoerut If.). ~ .Z?. ^. puj-piirrn.r , JB . 







7 



\. /,/,, /'/ //' 



J.2 . 



6. 



3. 



i3. 





/ 



s 



/ / 



\ 



\ \ 



S 







JL. 



X JteryA 



JL 4 DcndroTV nrlo7- ( T.) JJ2. Trit tetra<jn etr<t (?.) 



J.3. ^k*<><7- lxttjeen*r . JijjTts. 



. f rnni/ TIZwi 





xo. 



^% 



\.,./.<.r Pi I 



XL. 





6. 



"' 



3. 



r 



5. 



/ 



*4 



l3. 



J2 





S. 



x5. 



& 



i. 

 \ 



_ 2 .T r tvera*** (it-) 3-<> J*;> "!>'<< SM**e*is Cooj>*r 



>. Earn Mw/{ (7..) n-tj /*,<>./ tiit<-.rcrn.t . J>. 



'O . J.<im 





/>.,//'., /.'// III .//.i.r/.;i 



\,../,/.r /'/ // 



71 





j j 



c 





/ 





12 . 



i.V 





20. 



j:S. 







r 1 



M 





2 j . 





/ SO. . //rci/n.-r.y //,/,:v,;-/i.r , Ay '1 21-22. ilntf/rnr repcmda. I .' # 





'U&-.T Mtpl in ./A,.,,;-., 



/'/ /'/ 



. 



." 



IZ*^** * *.- <>-iS Gull r p ^ , t Jt > Js? -20.C r .,, ! ,U .. 



A' /irr-,fft 





^.'/. /./; r . 



I .<<>;, Pi 



A- /:.-,-.,A 



J. 2 - -Aiy. 7tctej-cn*r . Ji . 3 t> . <*z*U/ rep ( -A. et JT. 





PROC, A. N. S. PHILA,, 1879. 



PL IX. 



CHAPMAN ON THE CHIMPANZEE, 





PROC. A. N. S. PHI LA., 1879. 



PL. X. 



CHAPMAN ON FHE CHIMPANZEE. 





PROC, A, N, S. PHILA., 1879, 



PL. XL 



APMAN ' HE MIM'PANZEE 





PROC. A. N. S. PHIIA, 1879. 



PL XII. 



CHAPMAN ON THE CHIMPANZEE. 





1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



April 1. 

 The President, Dr. Rtjschenberger, in the chair. 

 Forty-two persons present. 

 The death of Geo. B. Wood, M.D., a member, was announced. 



On Hybrid Fuchsias. Mr. Thomas Meehan exhibited a seed- 

 ling fuchsia which had been obtained from F. syringsejlora, that 

 had been pollenised by a garden hybrid named "Inimitable." 

 Mr. M. detailed the precautions taken to avoid the use by the 

 flower of its own pollen. This one exhibited was the only one 

 that had foliage and habit exactly like its female parent, and the 

 flowers were also alike in every particular. The five remaining 

 had not yet flowered, but were more or less unlike the female pa- 

 rent, and unlike each other in appearance. The foliage of one 

 yet to flower was very much like the male parent; and one plant 

 which had been destroyed by an accident last summer was exactly 

 like the male parent. 



The chief point of interest was that the pollen from one single 

 flower, operating in one single pistil, and resulting in one single 

 berry, should produce such a dissimilar progeny. 



Note on the Adoption of an Ant-Queen. Mr. McCook reported 

 the following case of the adoption of a fertile queen of Cremato- 

 gaster lineolata, a small black ant, by a colony of the same spe- 

 cies. The queen was taken in Fairmount Park April 16th, and 

 on May 14th following was introduced to workers of a nest taken 

 the same day. The queen was alone within an artificial glass 

 formicary, and several workers were introduced. One of these 

 soon found the queen, exhibited much excitement, but no hostil- 

 ity, and immediately ran to her sister workers, all of whom were 

 presently clustered upon the queen. As other workers were 

 gradually introduced they joined their comrades until the body 

 of the queen (who is much larger than the workers) was nearly 

 covered with them. They appeared to be holding on by their 

 mandibles to the delicate hairs upon the female's body, and con- 

 tinually moved their antennae caressingly. This sort of attention 

 continued until the queen, escorted by workers, disappeared in 

 one of the galleries. She was entirely adopted, and thereafter 

 was often seen moving freely, or attended by guards, about the 

 nest, at times engaged in attending the la'rvse and nymphs which 

 had been introduced with the workers of the strange colon}'. 

 The workers were fresh from their own natural home, and the 

 queen had been in an artificial home for a month. As among 

 ants the workers of different nests aie usually hostile to each 



10 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1819. 



other, this adoption of an alien queen is an example of the strong 

 instinct which controls for preservation of the species. 



April 8. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-five persons present. 



April 15. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-three persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication: 



" Placenta of Macacus Cynomolgus." By H. C. Chapman, 

 M.D. 



"Description of a new species of Chirocephalus." By John A. 

 R3'der. 



The death of Isaac Hays, M.D-., a member, was announced. 



On Special Fecundity in Plants At the meeting of the Botani- 

 cal Section, Mr. Thomas Meehan exhibited specimens and re- 

 marked on the curious fact that special fecundity was not con- 

 fined to individuals of any one species of plants, but the species 

 themselves often exhibited peculiar fertility, as other species again 

 were characterized b}* an indisposition to produce seed. Occa- 

 sionally whole families or natural orders of plants exhibited these 

 peculiarities. In our green-houses the Begonia, which has male 

 and female flowers separately on the same plant, some species had 

 an unusual preponderance of fertile female flowers; others, as, for 

 instance, Begonia glaucophylla, had never borne a female flower 

 within his observation. The race of Primroses were famous for 

 an apparent abhorrence of their own pollen, rarely producing 

 any seeds unless the plant had the chance to receive pollen from 

 some other plant; but the Madeira Primrose Primula involu- 

 crata was a remarkable self-fertilizer, and every flower, appa- 

 rently under the most varied circumstances, produced an immense 

 quantity of seeds. As illustrations of the infertility of some 

 natural families, Asclepiadise and Apocynaceas were quoted. In 

 these we have the common Hoya or "Wax plant," the Oleander, 

 the common Silk-w r eeds, in which thousands of flow r ers are pro- 

 duced for every one that results in a seed vessel. In this part of 

 the world at least the "Trailing Arbutus" rarely, if ever, pro- 

 duces perfect seed. 




1819.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



April 22. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-seven persons present. 



Notice of a New Panropod. Mr. J. A. Ryder described a new 

 mj r riapod which he had recently discovered, and which turned 

 out to be nearly allied to the form described by Sir John Lubbock 

 under the name of Pauropus. The specimens which the speaker 

 had obtained were five in number, and had but six segments, fewer 

 than any other known member of the group, whilst the number of 

 pairs of legs was nine, the same as in Pauropus, which is very 

 strong evidence that the specimens are adults. The following 

 characterization of the genus and species was proposed: 



Eurypauropus spinosus, gen. et sp. nov. Body segments six 

 in number, sixth exceedingly rudimentary; antennae five-jointed; 

 legs in nine pairs, equidistant; tergal sclerites laterally expanded 

 so as to conceal the legs almost entirely when the animal is viewed 

 from above, and covered with fine tubercles which are joined to 

 each other by raised lines ; appressed curved spines are also scat- 

 tered over their surface in less number, and also fringe their mar- 

 gins, being disposed at regular intervals; the spines and lines 

 give the dorsal surface of the little creature *a slightly silky lustre 

 when viewed with reflected light. Color a delicate light brown. 

 Mouth-organs the same as in the first-described genus. No evi- 

 deuce of eyes could be detected. Length ^th of an inch ; width 

 about Jgth of an inch. Habitat in Fairinount Park, Philadel- 

 phia, east and west of Schuylkill, under decaying wood. 



The tergal sclerites are much thicker than in Pauropus, having 

 the characteristic brown color of chitin when viewed with trans- 

 mitted light. The antennas have the terminal globular hyaline 

 body with a long pedicle as in Pauropus pedunculatus. The tj-pe 

 is the most distinct form discovered since the detection of the 

 first known representatives in England in 1866, and also extends 

 the geographical range of the family, and does much towards fully 

 establishing the Pauropoda as a distinct order of myriapods. 



Bo Snakes Swallow their Young? Mr. Meehan remarked that 

 European zoologists 3'et seemed incredulous that young snakes 

 would enter their mothers' mouths for protection when frightened. 

 He had witnessed such an occurrence, but it had been suggested 

 that his eyes deceived him. Professor Brown Goode had collected ' 

 evidence sufficient, he thought, for American zoologists to believe 

 in. Similar facts came to us from Australia. He read a part of a 

 letter to himself from Baron Ferdinand Von Mueller, of Mel- 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1819. 



bourne, stating that two observers, whom Dr. M. believed perfectly 

 credible, had, independently of each other, witnessed similar pro- 

 tection in that country. 



Dr. Kenderdine said he had personally seen a case where a garter 

 snake so protected its young. 



Mode of Depositing Ant-eggs. Mr. McCook stated that a queen 

 of the black carpenter ant, Gamponotus Pennsylvanicus, whieh 

 had long been kept in an artificial nest, had once been seen in the 

 act of depositing an egg. The queen was at the time clinging to 

 the side of a hollow in the surface of the earth, almost in a verti- 

 cal position. The usual body-guard of workers quite surrounded 

 her, continually touching her with their antennae. The egg was a 

 white cylindrical object, about one-eighth of an inch in length. It 

 was about two minutes in escaping from the body, and as soon as 

 dropped was carried below within the galleries by a worker. The 

 queen was never left by her body-guard, who sought to control 

 her movements by pressing around her, blocking up the path 

 which she wished to take. Frequently more vigorous persuasions 

 were used, an antenna or leg being grasped by a worker, and the 

 queen thus pulled backward. She made no attacks upon her guard, 

 but often stubbornly held her own way; though commonly yield- 

 ing more or less graciously to her attendants. This colony had 

 been received from the Allegheny Mountains in December, within 

 their formicary in an oak bough, in which they were hibernating, 

 being quite stiff with cokl. They immediately revived in the 

 warmth, and were healthy and active during the following spring. 

 The queen survived until September following, and would doubt- 

 less have lived longer had she not been neglected during a pro- 

 longed absence in summer. She outlived all her subjects, and was 

 certainly more than a year old. 



April 29. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-eight persons present. 



Note on the Marriage-flights of Lasius flavus and Myrmica 

 Jobricornis. Rev. H. C. McCook remarked that the first named 

 ant is one of the most familiar objects in nature. Its small 

 dusk3' -yellow workers may be seen in every American lawn, walk, 

 field, and yard, throwing up its fragile moundlets of sand-pellets, 

 and swarming upon particles of fruit, crumbs, bones, dead insects, 

 and all manner of sweets. It is quite cosmopolitan in its distri- 

 bution, and is well known in Europe. The following observation 

 of the annual marriage-flight of the sexes was made September 5, 

 1878, in the vicinity of Philadelphia. The nests observed were 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



located directty in and on the grassy border of a trodden path in 

 a farmyard. At 4 P. M the males and females were seen coming 

 out and re-entering the gate, amid great excitement on the part of 

 the workers. The females particularly were followed by workers 

 who " teased" them occasionally by gentty nipping them with their 

 mandibles. The flight of the young queens was, with few excep- 

 tions, made from the top of stalks of grass, where they clung for 

 several minutes, poising themselves, spreading their wings, and 

 swaying up and down. Even to these elevations the workers fol- 

 lowed them, hastening their flight by occasional "nips." When 

 the queen rose in flight, there was no evidence of feebleness or 

 inexperience, except, in some cases, a slight tendency to a zig-zag 

 course for the first few yards. The flight was then, and in most 

 cases from the very first also, strong and in a straight course. The 

 insect first rose to a height of about 20 feet, which was soon in- 

 creased to 40, 50, and even 60 feet (estimated), and this latter 

 height was maintained until the form was lost to sight. lie was 

 able to follow the ants in several instances to a distance of more 

 than 300 feet, before they disappeared, at which time the} 7 gave 

 no sign of alighting. Some were seen to alight at the distance of 

 60 and 80 feet; others flew into a large buttonwood tree within 

 30 feet of the nest. 



The flight was in every case solitary, and was in all directions, 

 although generally in the direction of the breeze. The males 

 were in the mean time continually taking flight, urged thereto by 

 teasing workers, each separately, and wholly independent of other 

 males and of the females, as to the time and direction of flight. 

 This fact led Mr. McCook to infer that the pairing of the sexes 

 must have occurred within the nest before departure therefrom. 

 Except in the case of those individuals who lit upon the button- 

 wood tree, there appeared no opportunity for a meeting after 

 flight. There was nothing in all the facts to suggest the idea of 

 a future consort. The same feature of independent and solitary 

 flight of the sexes had been observed in the swarming of the Shin- 

 ing Slave-maker Polyergus lucidus. This is in marked contrast 

 with the habit of some other ants as illustrated in an observation 

 subsequently given. 



Before taking flight the L. flavus females spent some time in 

 combing and cleansing themselves. A female was placed among 

 the workers of another nest not more than a yard distant from her 

 own, in order to test the treatment of an alien. She was immedi- 

 ately attacked fiercely, and would no doubt have been soon killed 

 had she not been removed. In two formicaries from which the 

 above marriage-flight occurred, it was observed that the doors 

 were closed about 4i P. M. b} r bits of dry grass and pellets of soil. 

 They so remained during the night, -or at least were found closed 

 in the morning. Three days thereafter several males were found 

 nestled under a chip by the roadside. As soon as the chip was 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



turned up, two of these were seized by a couple of prowling ants 

 of the species Tetramorium caespitum and Formica Sehauffussi, 

 and carried off as prey, a suggestion of the common fate of emmet 

 masculines. 



His attention had been called to an article in a Hollidaysburg 

 (Pennsylvania) journal, which reported a remarkable swarm of ants 

 that had crossed that town on the 13th September, 1876. He im- 

 mediately wrote to Rev. D. H. Barron, a citizen of the place, and 

 a gentleman of intelligence and prudence, giving certain points 

 which it was desirable to ascertain. The ants in the course of 

 their flight had come in contact with the mechanics at work upon 

 the tower of the new court-house, whom it was reported they 

 had assaulted vigorously. Mr. Barron visited these men, and 

 after a careful interview communicated the following facts : The 

 flight actually occurred substantially as reported; the day was 

 clear, warm, and calm; the ants came between 10 and 11 A.M., 

 from the direction of the Chimney Rocks, a ridge of the mountain 

 on the southeast of the town. As to numbers, the answers of the 

 men were as follows: "so thick you could hardly see through 

 them;" "swarms;" "about 30,000!" The ants struck the build- 

 ing at the height of about 120 or 125 feet, and certainly assaulted 

 the men. Whether the attack was a bite or a sting they could not 

 tell, but it was something very uncomfortable, and they would not 

 like to have it repeated. The ants were of two sizes, some larger 

 some smaller. One of the men had saved some specimens which 

 were sent to Mr. McCook and proved to be the males and females 

 of Myrmica lobricornis, Nylander. These ants can inflict a pain- 

 ful sting, but probably attacked the workmen simply in self- 

 defence; that is, the men happened to obstruct their flight, and 

 naturally vigorously brushed off the insects who lit upon them, 

 who in turn becoming irate applied their stings. Such a vast horde 

 as this swarm contained must have been composed of the winged 

 inmates of many formicaries on the mountain side. This is quite 

 in contrast with the solitary flight of Lasius Jiavus as described 

 in a former note. The pairing of the sexes was probablj- in the 

 air, or after alighting, as in the case of the agricultural ant. 1 Mr. 

 McCook had taken ants of the same sub-family Myrmicidse, while 

 they were in the act of pairing in the air. 



In connection with the above notes on the queen-life of ants, 

 he presented an observation reported to him by Mr. Jos. Wilcox. 

 This gentleman had seen a colony of some species of Gampono- 

 tus occupying a large dead Cyprus tree standing in the midst of 

 a Cyprus swamp in Florida, at least 600 feet from the shore. The 

 tree was wholly isolated from the land and from all surrounding 

 vegetation except another fallen Cyprus tree which leaned up 

 against it. Evidently a fertilized queen had at some time flown 

 from the land to this tree, where she had established the colony. 



1 Agricultural Ant of Texas, p. 143. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 143 



The fact is interesting as indicating the origin of formicaries from 

 single queens, as myrmecologists have supposed to be frequently 

 if not commonly the case. Further, as showing the ability. of a 

 large number of ants (this nest was reported to consist of vast 

 numbers) to maintain active life under quite circumscribed environ- 

 ment. The insects sheltered in such numbers by old trees may 

 have furnished a large portion of the food supply. The speci- 

 mens brought by Mr. Wilcox were taken from a colony on the 

 land, which he supposed to be identical with the swamp-tree nest, 

 and were examples of Camponotus esuriens, Smith. 



Henry W. Stelwagon, M.D., Henry T. Coates, Wm. S. Magee, 

 James F. Magee, J. J. Kirkbride, M.D., and Robert Meade Smith, 

 M.D , were elected members. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1819. 



NOTES ON THE AMPHIUMA. 

 BY HENRY C. CHAPMAN, M.D. 



On looking over general works, like those of Owen, Huxlej 7 , 

 Milne Edwards, Gegenbaur, Stannins, etc., in reference to the 

 anatomy of the Perrenibranchiate Batrachia, I find that the Am- 

 phiuma is only referred to in a general way, and, with the excep- 

 tion of Cuvier's memoir, 1 I do not know of any special paper 

 having been published on the structure of that animal. Having 

 dissected the Amphiuma that recently died at the Zoological Gar- 

 den, I thought that it might not be uninteresting to notice the 

 disposition of its internal organs. The specimen was a male, and 

 measured twenty-nine inches. As regards the alimentary canal, 

 the only difference that I noticed in my specimen, as compared 

 with that described by Cuvier, was that the rectum did not ex- 

 hibit the constrictions seen in the figure of his specimen. In other 

 respects, such as the longitudinal folds of the stomach, the open- 

 ings into the cloaca, etc., they were alike. The liver and spleen 

 were large, and there was a distinct pancreas. The lungs were 

 well developed, and attained a length of thirteen inches, which 

 may serve to explain the fact of the animal being able to remain 

 under water such a length of time. The heart differs from that 

 of the siren in that the auricles are not fringed to the same ex- 

 tent. The ventricle is large and muscular, and is separated from 

 the bulbus arteriosus bj T a short and narrow constriction. The 

 bulbus bifurcates each branch at once, then subdivides into the 

 pulmonary artery and a branchial vessel. The latter winds around 

 the pharynx, and, meeting its fellow of the opposite side, the two 

 form the aorta. From the branchial vessel are given off cephalic 

 and hyoid branches. The blood is returned from the lung to the 

 heart by a pulmonary vein. As compared with Siredon, Meno- 

 branchus, Siren, Proteus, and even with the closely allied Meno- 

 poma, Amphiuma exhibits a very simple and concentrated type of 

 circulation. I did not notice anything peculiar about the branches 

 given off by the aorta, which I examined through its length; the 

 vessels supplying the Wolffian bodies were large. The bladder 



1 Cuvier Memoires du Musee. 2 op. cit., pi. 1, fig. 2, tome 14th. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



was long and narrow, measuring nine inches: it opened into the 

 cloaca. I can only account for the great length of the bladder in 

 the Arnphiuma and Siren on the supposition that it represents a 

 sort of rudimentary allantois. This view is strengthened by the 

 fact of the Arnphiuma having very simple limbs, and in this 

 respect also foreshadowing higher types of life. The urogenital 

 apparatus in its general arrangement resembles that of the newt 

 (Triton tceniatus). The testicle, however, was undivided, and 

 measured five and a half inches in length; it was situated in the 

 posterior third of the bod} - cavity. From the testicle six or seven 

 efferent ducts pass transversely outward to the remains of the 

 upper part of the Wolffian body, represented by a chain of dilata- 

 tions. From this embryonic remnant pass about twelve tubes into 

 a common uro-genital duct, which measures nine inches. This 

 duct runs in a wavy course until it reaches the lower part of the 

 Wolffian bod}', or the so-called kidney. Here the duct becomes 

 straight, and lies on the outside of the Wolffian body, from which 

 it collects, through small tubes, the urine. This common uro- 

 genital duct opens into the cloaca posteriorly to the bladder. I 

 was able by pressing upon the duct to squeeze a considerable 

 amount of semen through its opening into the cloaca, which gave 

 me the opportunity of examining the spermatozoa. These bodies 

 did not exhibit a very well defined head, but one end was obtuse 

 and the other tapered off tail-like. Just between the cloaca and 

 abdominal wall I found coiled up a nematoid worm, which may 

 be the Ascaris unguiculata. I found what seemed to be also the 

 same worm in an encysted condition in the intestine and in the 

 mesenterv. 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



PLACENTA OF MACACUS CYNOMOLOGUS. 

 BY HENRY C. CHAPMAN, M.D. 



Comparatively little is known concerning the fetal condition of 

 monkeys. In those of the New World (Platyrhina) the placenta 

 is single. As regards the Anthropoids the placentation in the 

 Gorilla and Ourang is unknown; in the Chimpanzee the organ is 

 single ; in the Hylobates it is double. In the remaining Old World 

 monkeys (Catarhina) the placenta is usually described as being 

 double. Thus Prof. Owen observes, "in the tailed Catarhina the 

 placenta is double, the two being distinct and apart." 1 According 

 to Prof. Milne Edwards, "chez les autres singes de l'ancien con- 

 tinent cet organe est divise en deux lobes bien distincts." 2 Prof. 

 Huxley states, "that the placenta is often bilobed." 3 In the genera 

 Nasalis, Semnopithecus, Cercopithecits, according to Breschet, 4 

 and in the Macacus nemestrinus, according to Prof. Rolleston, 5 

 the placenta is double. In the case of the Macacus nemeslrinus 

 I have confirmed Prof. Rolleston's observation in two instances- 

 Having recently made a post-mortem examination of a pregnant 

 Macacus cynomolgus, which died at the Philadelphia Zoological 

 Garden, of phthisis, I was surprised to find on opening the uterus 

 that the placenta was single, contrary to what might have been 

 expected. As the opportunity rarely presents itself of examining 

 in situ the foetus and membranes of a monkey, it appears to me 

 proper to communicate the results of my dissection. In opening 

 the uterus I found that it measured from side to side 7 inches, 

 and was |th inch thick. The placenta, single and discoid in form, 

 measured 3.V inches in its longest diameter, and 2^ inches in its 

 shortest. The umbilical cord was 7 inches in length and consisted 

 of the umbilical vein and the two hypogastric arteries. The um- 

 bilical vein passed into the liver of the foetus, and the hypogastric 

 arteries into the internal iliacs. The foetus measured, from crown 

 of head to tail, 6 inches, the tail itself measuring 7 inches. In 



' Comparative Anatomy, vol. iii., p. 748. 



2 Anatomie Comparee, Tome neuvieme, p. 554. 



* Anatomy of Vertebrates, p. 402. 



* Etudes sur l'ceuf. s Trans, of Zool. Society, 1865. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 14*7 



reference to the membranes, the amnion and chorion adhered 

 together and were in contact with the decidua. As the pregnancy 

 was far advanced, I cannot state whether there was a decidua re- 

 flexa, at least it was undistinguishable from the decidua vera. In 

 every respect the disposition of all the parts strikingly resembled 

 those of the human being under similar conditions. 




14S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF CHIROCEPHALUS. 

 BY JOHN A. RYDER. 



The genus Ghirocephalus does not seem to have been noticed 

 up to the present time in North America; 1 therefore take much 

 pleasure in announcing the discovery of a hitherto undescribed 

 species of the genus in the vicinity of Woodbury, New Jersej', 

 where it was found in abundance in the ditches by Mr. AY. P. Seal, 

 a resident of the place, and an indefatigable collector of the minute 

 life of his neighborhood. 



The genus, as characterized by Dr. Wm. Baird, 1 has been found 

 in Switzerland, France, England, Russia, and Siberia. The species 

 C. lacunae, most nearly like the one I am about to describe, is 

 figured and described by Guerin in his Iconog. Regne Animate, as 

 being found at Fontainebleau, France. The differences between 

 our species and Guerin's are, however, sufficiently striking and 

 constant to characterize a well-marked specific type, and I accord- 

 ingly propose the following specific characterization of the Ameri- 

 can form. 



Chirocephalus holmanii, nov. sp. 



Char, specif. Claspers moderately robust ; second joint forked, 

 longest branch longer than first joint, and curved inwards, its tip 

 crossing that of its fellow of the opposite side when in repose ; 

 shorter branch less curved, slightly swollen, and rough on the 

 inner surface of its tip, about half as long as the longer branch. 

 Two long fleshy proboscis-like prehensile organs arise from the 

 bases of the claspers and are coiled up between the latter; mus- 

 cular fibres pass throughout their length; near their origin and 

 for the first third they are expanded inferiorly into a thin margin 

 with about seven papilliform processes; they then gradually con- 

 tract, becoming cylindrical at their second third, where about 

 seven well-marked digitiform processes are found, the longest of 

 which are about as long as twice the diameter of the proboscis at 

 this point; the remaining third gradually contracts, and is thickly 

 studded with half rings of small papillae which seem to mark 



1 Monograph of the Family Branchipodidse, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 

 2d ser., vol. xiv., 1854, p. 216-229. 




1879.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



149 



indistinctly the segments of the organ. Total length of the pro- 

 boscis, when extended, about three times that of the claspers. 

 Total length 12-14 mm. Habitat, Woodbury, New Jersey. 



Y$r 



Head of male with proboscidiform organs uncoiled, from the side. Same, viewed from 

 before, with [iroboscidiform organs coiled up and retracted between the claspers. Head of 

 female from above. 



I name the above species in honor of Mr. D. S. Holman, Actu- 

 ary of the Franklin Institute, in recognition of the services he has 

 rendered in devising methods for studying living objects, both 

 large and small, under the microscope, and to whom I am also in- 

 debted for the specimens from which the above description has 

 been taken. 



The detection of a member of the genus in this country is very 

 interesting, but less so than the detection of Pauropus huxleyi 

 Lubbock, in the vicinity of Philadelphia, without any difference, as 

 far as Mr. Lubbock's excellent plates of English specimens would 

 enable one to judge, that would make it even a variety, although 

 removed by more than 3000 miles of ocean from its congeners. 

 It has been suggested, however, that, inasmuch as Philadelphia is 

 an old English settlement, Pau?-o])us may have been introduced, 

 but in the case of Chirocephalus such an explanation is less open 

 to acceptance. 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



May 6. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-one persons present. 



Pairing of Spiders, Linyphia marginata. Rev. H. C. McCook 

 remarked that on the afternoon of June 14, 1878, he witnessed 

 the pairing of a male and female of Linyphia marginata at Bell- 

 wood, Blair Co., Penna. The spiders were first observed at a 

 quarter before 4 o'clock P. M. They were hanging inverted in 

 the dome-shaped nest of the species, in line with each other, and 

 about three-quarters inch apart. Each hung within a smaller 

 dome, delicately but perceptibly defined, that rose within the 

 summit. These were perhaps formed by the outspread feet draw- 

 ing down the inner surface of the dome. 



The position of these individuals seeming to indicate the act 

 of copulation, he arranged himself before them as comfortabty as 

 possible for observation. The nest was hung from the lower sur- 

 face of an end of a plank that jutted over from a pile of lumber, 

 about two and a half feet from the ground, so that, seated before 

 the nest, his face was on a level with the spiders. The male 

 reached out one foot cautiously toward the female, pulling upon 

 the threads. He turned a moment to adjust the block on which 

 he sat, and, on again looking, the' two were in embrace. The 

 female was suspended in the same position as before, although 

 turned at right angles to the line on which she hung when first 

 seen. The head of the male was laid against the sternum of the 

 female, the abdomen inclined a little upward, the forelegs inter- 

 locked with or rather interlaid upon those of the female. Both 

 spiders were suspended by threads, in the normal way. This was 

 at 9 minutes before 4 P.M. After a moment's embrace the pair 

 separated ; the female made a circuit of the lower part of the 

 dome, moving in an excited, jerking manner, then returned to the 

 summit. The male approached, the female stretching out her 

 forelegs somewhat, as he laid his two forelegs within them, which 

 position was maintained, as was the relative position of the two 

 during the entire period of copulation. The female during the 

 act remained perfectly motionless except an occasional twitching 

 of the apex of the abdomen. 



The two terminal bulbs upon the male palp were laid upon the 

 epigynum of the female, and pressed downward. From one of 

 these issued the sac, a bean-shaped organ, of a bright amber color, 

 and translucent, which shone brilliantly in the sun that fell full 

 upon it from the west. It remained thus projected, held between 

 the finger-like tufted horn of the bulb, for a brief space, was then 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



gradually contracted and withdrawn within the black corneous 

 bulb, which was meanwhile pressed eagerly against the epigynum. 

 A small elbow or projection upon the upper part of the bulb 

 seemed to press within the spermatheca of the epigynum. The 

 two bulbs were laid simultaneously upon the tubes of the sperma- 

 thecse, but the inflated sac appeared in but one bulb at a time ; 

 the latter action alternated in the bulb. There was a prolonged 

 squeezing motion of the bulbs, as though pressing into the sper- 

 mathecae, and at times a corresponding motion in the abdomen 

 of the female, especially at the apex. With this exception the 

 female remained motionless during the whole period of copulation. 

 After application as above the male bulb was slowly, for the most 

 part, but sometimes rapidly, raised, bent upward, and apparently 

 clasped upon the falces or lower margin of the face, which parts 

 of course were upward. Three or four movements back and forth 

 in this clinched position followed, when the series of motions 

 above described was repeated. 



In the meanwhile the other bulb remained upon the other tube 

 until the first bulb began to descend, when it in turn was elevated, 

 and the same motion made. As the bulb descended the sac began 

 to inflate and issue. The above is the process as it was quite 

 regularly repeated. Sometimes, however, both bulbs were clinched 

 upon the falces at the same time; sometimes the movements of 

 the bulb were more rapid than at others. The bulbs had the 

 appearance of having been moistened by some secretion, present- 

 ing the peculiar gloss which a colorless liquid gives to a black 

 surface, but he could see no secretion otherwise, although he was 

 able at any time to use his pocket lens with the exercise of a little 

 care. 



At twenty minutes before 6 six o'clock he was compelled to 

 leave, at which time the pair had been in embrace one hour and 

 forty-nine minutes. At six o'clock twenty-eightminutes he returned, 

 and found the pair in precisel}' the same positions. He remained 

 five minutes, and then left an intelligent young man at the post, 

 with full instructions as to points of observation. He reported 

 that at thirteen and a half minutes to seven P. M. the pair parted 

 very suddenly. The male ran downward to a portion in the lower 

 margin of the dome pursued by the female, who stopped suddenly 

 just above and turned back to the central point in the summit of 

 the dome. Shortly after receiving this report Mr. McCook visited 

 the nest and found the female suspended motionless in this posi- 

 tion and the male at the point to which he had fled, feeding upon a 

 small fly. The next morning at seven o'clock the female was in the 

 same position, and the male had disappeared. He attempted to 

 capture the female, but she ran among the boards and escaped. 

 The pair had thus been in union two hours and fifty-five and a 

 half minutes. 



During this period they were separated a number of times. 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 







Nineteen of these interruptions were noted; one was caused by a 

 small fly striking the snare, which the male darted at in a fierce 

 manner, but failed to seize, as the fly broke loose before he reached 

 it. Others were caused by the observer touching the foundation 

 threads or other parts of the nest. Toward the close of his ob- 

 servations he aecidently broke the suspending lines nearest to 

 him and so caused one side of the dome to fall in. This made 

 only a momentary interruption. Many of these separations were, 

 however, apparently without any extraneous cause. Twice the 

 male ran to one side of the dome, made a web attachment to a 

 bit of leaf hanging in the snare, drew out a thread about two and 

 a half inches long, which he overlaid a couple of times, and then 

 made the following motion : First, the bod} r was placed erect, i.e., 

 back upward, and was moved back and forth along the line, rub- 

 bing the points or " nippers" of the palps at the same time ; then 

 the spider swung over until the body made an angle of about 45 

 with the line, and while holding on thus the palps were rubbed 

 back and forth alternately along the line as before. The process 

 was repeated during another of the intermissions, as described 

 above. It was conjectured that the purpose of this movement 

 might be the distribution of the seminal fluid into the palpal 

 bulbs. This is taken up by the sacs, by the inflation and contrac- 

 tion of whose membranous coats it is forced into the spermathecae 

 of the female. 



May 13. 

 Wm, S. Vaux, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Thirty-three persons present. 



The Lateral Sensory Ajiparatus of Fishes. Dr. Francis Der- 

 cum called the attention of the Academy to the so-called mucous 

 canals, or system of the lateral line in fishes. Up to the year 

 1850 these structures had been regarded as glandular, that is, as 

 secreting mucus for the purpose of lubricating the general surface 

 of the body. However, the following facts at once strike us as 

 being directly contradictory to this view. In the first place, their 

 size would render them wholly insufficient; secondly, these canals 

 are in most fishes practically closed ; and in some fishes actually 

 closed along their entire course. Again, in mollusks in which the 

 surface is equally well lubricated with those of fishes we find no 

 such structures. 



After referring to the discoveries of Franz Leydig in 1850, and 

 afterwards to the observations of F. E. Schnlze on young teliost 

 fishes, Dr. Dercum offered the following evidence in confirmation 

 of the view that these structures are sensory. Like Leydig he 

 described as occurring at regular intervals in the canals of the 

 head and lateral line certain discoidal bodies, termed by Leydig 




1879.'] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



nerve-buttons, and in which terminates a nerve fibre. He corrobo- 

 rated Leydig's statements regarding the existence of a little mass 

 of viscid mucous or jelly-like matter resting on each disk, and also 

 regarding the positions of the disks, i.e., as generally occurring 

 under small bridges of bone in the canals of the head, and as 

 occurring in every scale of the lateral line. However, the speci- 

 mens exhibited by him showed a result entirely different from that 

 of Leydig as regards the distribution of the nerves. Leydig 

 pictures the disk as composed of two distinct areas, a dark or 

 less translucent central portion, and a lighter peripheral portion. 

 This appearance is, indeed, simulated in the fresh preparation, as 

 the disk is somewhat transparent, and allows the insertion of the 

 nerve fibre to be seen directly through it. No such appearance, 

 however, is presented in specimens treated by osmic acid. A 

 dense, arborescent plexus of nerve-fibres comes into view, and the 

 distinction into two areas entirely disappears. 



The size of the entering nerve as compared with the size of the 

 disk is relatively very great, so that when the dense plexus of 

 nerves makes its appearance it strikes one as though the bulk of 

 the disk were nerve matter. Indeed, besides a large number of 

 capillaries it contains only a small amount of connective tissue. 



Owing to the want of the proper material, Dr. Dercum had not 

 been able to confirm the observations of F. E. Schulze on young 

 fishes. However, transverse sections of the disks macerated in 

 osmic acid and teased, yielded essentially the same results as re- 

 gards the structure of the epithelium. Tins appears to consist of 

 two kinds of cells, one long and cylindroid, the other small and 

 globose or pyriform, and having long outrunners penetrating the 

 subjacent connective tissue. These outrunners are probably 

 continuous with nerve-fibres, which they resemble. The drawings 

 representing the connections of the nerves with the cells, given by 

 F. E. Schulze for the " nerve-hills" of young fishes, are, therefore, 

 very probably correct, but the material at hand did not permit an 

 absolute decision of the point. The hairs of these perceptive cells 

 were readily distinguished, but were generally broken and muti- 

 lated, owing doubtless to the reagents and teasing. 



As is well knOwn, the canals of the head are generally provided 

 with bony supports, which form grooves, and which are at intervals 

 generally bridged over by bone. Thus certain membranous inter- 

 spaces of greater or less size are produced. In some fishes, as 

 Centropomus undecimalis, the bon}' bridges are more or less 

 wanting, so that a comparatively large expanse of membrane is 

 formed stretched between the two walls of the canal. These 

 membranes are, of course, composed of two elements. They 

 consist, first, of the delicate connective tissue and flattened epi- 

 thelium belonging to the canal, and, secondly, of the dense layer 

 of connective tissue and epithelium belonging to the skin. The 

 two layers can be readily separated by a careful dissection. Each 

 11 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



membrane, were it stretched tightly, would form functionally a 

 drum-head. It is, however, quite loose, and will fluctuate readily 

 on pressure. 



The function attributed to this apparatus by F. E. Schulze, that 

 these structures appreciate mass movements of the water, and 

 also waves having longer periods than those appreciated by the 

 ear, is no doubt the correct one. However, the canals cannot act 

 in the manner suggested by Schulze, i.e., by allowing the water 

 to flow freely through them, as such a free communication with 

 the surrounding medium as is implied, is not present. As al- 

 ready stated, in some fishes the canals are completely closed along 

 their entire course, and when openings are present, they are pro- 

 bably for the purpose of maintaining an equilibrium of pressure 

 within and without the apparatus. 



The true detailed action of these organs is probably as follows : 

 Let us suppose any disturbing cause to set up a wave of long 

 period in the w r ater. It impinges, first, on the membranous inter- 

 spaces or drum-heads before spoken of, and with the greatest in- 

 tensity, of course, on those which are most nearly placed at right 

 angles to its direction. The wave is thus communicated to the 

 liquid in the canals, which transmits it to the adjacent masses of 

 jelly-like mucus covering the disks. The quivering of these 

 little masses probably excites and intensifies vibrations of the 

 hairs of the perceptive cells. The fish probably judges of the 

 direction of the disturbing cause by the portion of the apparatus 

 most intensely excited. The membranous spaces or drum-heads, 

 when the apparatus is well developed, are so arranged as to favor 

 the perception of vibrations from almost all directions. 



Dr. Dercum suggested that it would be well, in view of the con- 

 fusion existing in the present names of the dermal structures of 

 fishes, to call these organs definitely the lateral sensory apparatus 

 of fishes. This would, of course, not include the sensory ampullae 

 of the sharks and rays, nor the Savian vesicles, which have al- 

 ready distinctive names. In view of the structural resemblance 

 of the sensory disks to the maculae acusticae, he proposed to call 

 them the maculse laterales, giving a specific signification to the 

 word macula. 



May 20. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty persons present. 



Note on Mound-making Ants. Mr. McCook said that he had 

 had an opportunit}' to spend a day (June 12) on the Allegheny 

 Mountains, above Birmingham, Huntingdon Co., Pa., observing 

 the habits of Formica exsecloides, our mountain mound-builder. 

 While standing near a yellow pine tree whose roots ran into a 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



large double mound, his attention was attracted by a continuous 

 and peculiar rasping sound. This was produced by ants who were 

 scattered over the surface of the trunk engaged in scooping out 

 with their mandibles the bark thereof. The gray outer hark had 

 been removed in many places, and the reddish-brown bark beneath 

 cut awaj r so as to give the tree a marked spotted appearance. 

 The excavated portions covered a surface at times of two or three 

 square inches, and were from one-sixteenth to one-eighth of an inch 

 in depth. The pellets were sometimes allowed to accumulate in 

 the mandibles, but were generally rejected as soon as cut off, 

 and dropped to the earth. In only two cases was there any appli- 

 cation of the tongue to the bark. No other tree was observed to 

 be thus marked. The purpose of this curious behavior could not 

 be conjectured. 



The directness with which the foragers take the home path was 

 thus illustrated. One worker was seen by his companion, Mr. 

 Kay, to seize a small green insect, with which she immediately 

 turned homeward. She was followed patiently with her burden 

 to the nest, a distance of 126 feet, and her path upon measure- 

 ment was found to be a direct line. She was twice attacked upon 

 the route, once by several workers of the same species ; she hid 

 from these assailants beneath a leaf and waited until they dis- 

 persed. The second time she was assaulted by two workers from 

 whom she escaped by running. Once she rested for one half a 

 minute. A number of times she met foragers apparently of her own 

 nest, for after antennal salutations she passed peacefully on. The 

 direct line was in no case interrupted. 



In turning up a number of stones in the neighborhood of various 

 mounds, liosts of white ants, Termes flavipes, were uncovered, who 

 were instantly attacked by the roving exsectoides, and carried 

 off in their jaws. These termites evidently are preyed upon by 

 the mound builders. .Nests of small true ants, exposed in a simi- 

 lar way, were similarly dealt with. 



A sjreat number of abandoned and moss-grown mounds- were 

 seen here. In some cases, one part of the hill was occupied and 

 the other abandoned. In the unoccupied parts when washed out 

 by the rains, the exposed walls of the galleries presented a pretty 

 columnar appearance, which was made more striking by the over- 



covering moss. 



As the evening advanced attention was directed to the gates to 

 note if any attempt would be made to close them. Previous stu- 

 dies, made later in the summer, had failed to detect any such 

 effort. Five doors not far removed from each other upon the side 

 of a large mound, were put under close observation. These were 

 watched until the night was too far advanced to allow further 

 notice, at which time, three doors were quite closed and two 

 nearly so. There appeared to beaconflict of behavior on the part 

 of the workers, some carrying the pellets of earth quite out of the 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



galleries as usual, while others dropped them near the mouth or 

 door. The evening was quite cool and Mr. McCook's impression 

 was that the ants who dropped the pellets within or just outside of 

 the doors were probably caused to do so by the sense of cold with 

 which they were met. Feeling the cold air as they approached 

 the gate, instead of pushing out, they stopped, dropped the pellet, 

 and turned back. Thus the grains accumulated, giving the ap- 

 pearance of an intentional closing. Through the doors which were 

 nearty closed an ant head and antennas could occasionally be seen 

 peeping forth. 



May 27. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirty-four persons present. 



Charles H. Pennypacker and Robert S. Davis were elected 

 members. 



June 3. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-one members present. 



June 10. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Fifteen persons present. 



The deaths of Wm. W. Longstreth and F. F. Maury, M.D., 

 members, were announced. 



Combats and Nidification of the Pavement Ant, Tetramorium 

 Csespitum. Mr. McCook. exhibited a large glass jar containing a 

 nest of this ant made by captives taken from a city garden. Dur- 

 ing the month of May immense numbers of this species have been 

 seen along our sidewalks, in yards and gardens, engaged in com- 

 bat. From one of these masses of struggling insects, three large 

 groups were taken and placed in separate jars. The transfer had 

 no visible effect in separating the combatants. Into one jar (No. 

 1) a pellet saturated in cologne was introduced. Instantly, as in 

 the case of experiments previously reported, 1 the combatants 

 separated, and buried themselves pell-mell in the earth. Not an 



1 Mode of Recognition among Ants, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 15, 

 1878. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 157 



ant remained above the surface. The pellet was removed, and 

 the jar thoroughly aired; whereupon the ants speedily began to 

 reappear. They seemed to be confused somewhat by the fumes 

 of the cologne, but soon began to dig galleries. Only two pairs 

 resumed the fight, and these shortly unclasped mandibles. There 

 was no resumption of hostilities thereafter, and the two parties 

 appeared to interblend and fraternize completely. 



In the second jar (No. 2), the one exhibited, the ants were left 

 undisturbed. The battle continued for two days. It was waged 

 over the entire surface of the earth within the jar. Ever} clod 

 and other elevation was the seat of one or more duels, for, as a 

 general rule, the fight was waged by twos, but also frequently by 

 threes. The duelists seized each other by the head, frequently 

 interclasping mandibles, and pulling backward or swaying back 

 and forth. Again, one would have her antagonist grasped by the 

 face above the mandibles, which placed the latter at a great dis- 

 advantage. In such cases, and in others also, both ants would be 

 reared upon the hind and middle legs, with abdomens turned un- 

 der, and stinging organs thrust out. When three ants were bat- 

 tling in one group, the third commonly held her opponent by a 

 leg, or had seized her by the abdomen or thorax. Occasionally 

 the exertions of the combatants caused them to roll upon the 

 ground. 



At the close of the first day, numbers had retired from the 

 conflict and perched upon the sides of the jar. On the third day 

 the battle had ceased, and the ants were engaged in excavating 

 galleries. Whether the survivors were all of one party could not 

 be determined, except inferentially by the following experiment. 



The jar which had been fumed with cologne (No. 1) was intro- 

 duced into jar No. 2, which was large enough to admit it. The 

 ants in No. 1, who had been hostile, were then working together 

 harmoniously. The}', in turn, soon interblended with those in 

 No. 2, all thus composing one apparently united formicary. It 

 thus appears, whatever may have been the cause of the combat, 

 that, first, the influence of the cologne fumes completely pacified 

 and united the contending parties; and, second, that the previous 

 hostility was no barrier to their forming one harmonious nest. 

 Subsequently the jar was placed uncovered in the open air and 

 was abandoned by all but a few of the ants within two days; 



There were many dead bodies, which were gathered in one large 

 heap, that each day was increased by the death of the (probably) 

 injured. This "graveyard" was subsequently changed to another 

 spot, but the dead were kept together as they now are. 



In at least one case noted the cause of the ant battle seemed 

 quite clear. The warring insects were spread thickly over a sur- 

 face of nearly a square foot of the sidewalk, quite near the curb- 

 stone. The centre of this struggling mass was a quantity of fatty 

 matter which had been thrown on and around the seams of the 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



bricks through which a large formicary had made its gates. From 

 the battle field a column of ants, three or four lines deep, stretched 

 along a depression caused by a shallow surface drain to a second 

 nest just under a gate that led through a wall into the house-yard. 

 Evidently the ants from the curb formicary had fallen upon the 

 unctuous treasures which had dropped by their doors, but had 

 been disturbed in their "feast of fat things'' by stragglers from 

 the gate nest. The stragglers were attacked ; others came, and in 

 time were attacked ; messengers ran to the gate nest for reinforce- 

 ments; fresh squadrons issued from the curb colony, and thus 

 the battle grew. When it was first seen a single line of ants was 

 stretched from battle ground to gate, and a double line from gate 

 to battle field. The ants in these columns were in the utmost 

 agitation. As they hurried along, fairly a-quiver with excitement. 

 they suggested strongly the outward mien and behavior of human 

 beings running to and from a fire, a riot, or a fight. Mr. McCook 

 was not able to watch the issue of this ant battle, but had no 

 doubt that the above is the true theory of its origin. It is pro- 

 bable that many similar conflicts originate in like rivalries for the 

 possession of food 



The system of galleries excavated by these insects is precisely 

 like that of most other mason ants. It is a network of galleries for 

 the most part from one-sixteenth to one-eighth inch wide, but with 

 frequent greatly widened portions. The "meshes" or solid inter- 

 spaces vary much in size. The galleries were made against the 

 inner surface of the jar, and thus are entirely visible. The ants 

 seemed to have no objection to working in the light. The princi- 

 pal galleries have a tendency more or less regular to the vertical 

 and horizontal, but the impression was made by the mode of ope- 

 rations that the workers were rather influenced by some accidental 

 feature or quality of the soil, than directed by any intelligent 

 plan, in laying out and driving the galleries. The behavior of 

 the ants gave to a human observer the impression of unconscious 

 action, not of forethought. On the contrary, a glance at the 

 series of galleries, as. thus far completed, shows an arrangement 

 admirably suited for the purposes of a nest. The cross-galleries 

 are all inclined at various degrees of inclination, leading into 

 each other and out of the surface-gates by grades which afford 

 easy passage. There is thus a mechanical advantage in the very 

 irregularity of the arrangement. It is not improbable, to say the 

 least, that the muscular system of the ant is so constructed that 

 she unconsciously takes the line of least action in her work, as do 

 human beings and lower animals when climbing the side of a hill, 

 or moving across irregular surfaces. The thorough interlacing of 

 the galleries affords easy intercommunication throughout the 

 nest. There is also an evident convergence of the cross galleries 

 at several points upon vertical galleries which are much widened 

 as though to provide for the convenient movements of increased 

 numbers. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 159 



The structure of a nest in natural site is obviously more diffi- 

 cult to stud}'. For the sake of comparison, one was taken which 

 was located on the edge of a brick walk. The walk was separated 

 from the grass-plat by a line of bricks set on edge. Several of 

 these and the adjoining flat bricks were removed, thus quite ex- 

 posing the fomicary to the depth in parts of four inches. The 

 side of the grass-plat against which the bricks had pressed was 

 pierced by many openings, one-quarter of an inch or more in diame- 

 ter, leading for the most part directly into ovoid chambers whose 

 longest diameters were from three-fourths of an inch to one inch 

 in length. One of the largest of these was close to the surface just 

 beneath the grass roots, and was filled with naked larvae of worker 

 ants, most of which were white, a few yellow. These chambers 

 had interior openings extending into the earth. They were united 

 together by galleries, where their boundaries did not interblend. 

 There was an opening directly upward into the grass, but the 

 main avenue for the carriage of excavated earth led downward to 

 the lower edge of the brick, then diagonally upward through the 

 earthen seam of that and the next brick, debouching at the surface 

 and upon the pavement. Openings downward communicated 

 with this avenue, as did also a broad (three-eighths inch) winding 

 track, which followed the under surface of the brick its entire 

 length, and beyond. These avenues presented the characteristics 

 of those in the artificial nest, but were larger and not so numerous. 

 The large larvae of several queens were found in the lower ave- 

 nues. 



The behavior of the ants placed in jar No. 3 was like that of 

 those in No. 2, i. e , the fighting soon ceased, and the work of 

 gallery digging began. Here, also, it could not be determined 

 whether the survivors were of one party or of both, but the latter 

 was inferred in view of the experiment which showed the inter- 

 blending of the harmonized hostiles of No. 1 with the survivors of 

 No. 2. The galleries here were not made against the surface of 

 the glass as in No. 2, but were confined apparently to the interior 

 of the earth, which they must have quite honey-combed, as shown 

 by the quantity of pellets brought up, and by the numerous open- 

 ings upon the surface. 



In this connection Mr. McCook referred to the economy in na- 

 ture of ants by contributing to the fertilization of the earth. A 

 comparison between the formicaries of various species shows that 

 all the mason ants substantially agree in (at least) subterraneous 

 nidification. The example presented of the underground work of 

 Tetramorium will give some idea of the manner in which the 

 earth may be excavated hy a single colon}'. In a portion of the 

 exposed surface, which presented less rather than more of the 

 average amount of excavation, the gallery surface was measured. 

 In a space of three square inches there were (approximately) one 

 and nine-sixteenths square inches of gallery surface, or about one- 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



half of the measured space. The galleries were in depth fully one- 

 eighth of an inch. This will give a rude notion of the extent to 

 which the underground space occupied by a single colony is exca- 

 vated. 



Another estimate was made of the quantit} 7 of earth thrown out 

 of a nest in the two days succeeding a heavy rain. The excava- 

 tions brought up from the seam of a brick that faced a grass plat, 

 and which were spread along a distance of eight inches, were 

 collected and measured. The result showed a solid contents of 

 six cubic inches. This was onty a part of the work of a formi- 

 cary in the time specified, during only a part of which the ants 

 were engaged in transporting pellets. 



The other factor in the calculation is the number of ants of 

 various species spread over any given surface of the earth. Ac- 

 curacy of count would be quite impossible; but if one will take 

 pains to observe the number of nests which may be seen in nearly 

 every open tract of country, he will be surprised at its vastness. 

 In some such rough observations, made in the open field, Mr. 

 McCook had concluded that it would be scarcelj' possible to dig 

 within an}' square foot of surface without uncovering the formi- 

 caiy of some, often of several, species of ants. There is of 

 course a difference in this respect between soils and sections; 

 but the fact is constant that innumerable myriads of ants are 

 everywhere located and operating as above described. As re- 

 sults of such labor, first, the ground is pulverized and brought in 

 great quantities to the surface, thus making good top soil for the 

 growth of vegetation. The nest by which these remarks were 

 illustrated shows that, insignificant in size as these insects are, 

 the labors of countless hosts through many years are by no means 

 insignificant in this shifting of the soil. Second, the aeration of 

 the soil, so needful for its productiveness, is thus largely pro- 

 moted. Third, the system of " pores," established by the gal- 

 leries which everywhere perforate the ground, affords, on the one 

 hand, free entrace for the rains into the earth, and, on the other 

 hand, a series of tubes through which, by capillar}' attraction, 

 the moisture may ascend to the roots of plants. In this geo- 

 graphical province (Philadelphia) perhaps the most numerous 

 species, and therefore the most effective toward the above results, 

 are T.csespitum and Lasius jlavus, both small species, the largest 

 workers being little more than one-eighth of an inch in length. 



The fate of the ants during the late heavy June rains had some- 

 what occupied Mr. McCook's attention. Where do the little 

 creatures find refuge? or do they find any sheltered spot within 

 their nest ? It would seem that the health and safety of the larvae 

 at least must require some protection from the water. But he 

 could not satisfy himself that Tetramorium has any such shelters. 

 The pellets of soil brought up after the rains were all damp, and 

 had evidently been reached b} r the water. The opened formicary 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1G1 



above referred to showed that it had been penetrated, as far as ex- 

 amined, by the water, as the soil was thoroughly soaked through. 

 The numerous galleries must give more ready access to the rains 

 within formicary bounds than elsewhere. The points are of 

 much interest, and are still under examination, but the following 

 suggestions were made : First, the peculiar arrangement of the 

 galleries and chambers indicates that the least exposed portion of 

 the nest is that near the surface, in the parts which do not com- 

 municate directly with the same. The main entrance and exit 

 being removed from this, and penetrating downward and heneath 

 it, would cause a drainage which, carrying oft" the first flood, would 

 leave the upper chambers comparatively safe until the water should 

 fill up the lower spaces and back up to the surface rooms. Second, 

 it is probable that the galleries which penetrate downwards may 

 serve the purpose of drainage downward. In heavy rains, how- 

 ever, neither of the above arrangements woidd seem to afford am- 

 ple protection. Third, it is therefore probable, and observation 

 and some experiments 1 appear to point in this direction, that the 

 ants themselves (if not the larva?) can endure a submersion more 

 or less prolonged with comparative safety. 



Honey Glands on Catalpa Leaves. Mr. J. A. Ryder stated at 

 the meeting of the Botanical Section that he had recently observed 

 the presence of a number of large nectar-secreting glands on the 

 under side of the leaves of the common Catalpa bignonioides. 

 These glands are situated in the axils of the veins of the leaf, i. e., 

 where the lateral veins join the midrib. Those nearest the inser- 

 tion of the petiole are largest, whilst toward the apex of the leaf 

 they are smaller. The glandular areas, extending over a consider- 

 able axillary space as well as to some extent over the sides of the 

 veins, are without hairs, the place of the latter being taken by 

 large biscuit-shaped, sub-circular glandular bodies attached to the 

 surface of the leaf much like a button to a piece of cloth, and 

 projecting above the circumjacent epidermis, though at the point 

 where the gland is attached the epidermis is depressed. The ap- 

 pearance is not much unlike that of the circumvallate papillae of 

 the base of the human tongue. The glands seemed to be modified 

 hairs, and in thin vertical sections are seen to be composed of 

 columnar cells arranged around a cavity. The nectar observed in 

 a few instances was perceptibly sweet to the taste, and thrown out 

 in sufficient quantity to be seen as small clear drops in the axils 

 of the veins. Ants of both red and black species were seen feed- 

 ing upon this sweet liquid with great avidity. 



1 See a brief paper on the Vital Power of Insects, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 of Phila., 1877, p. 134. 




162 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



June 17. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-eight persons present. 

 The death of Win, Adamson, a member, was announced. 



On Rhizopods occurring in Sphagnum. As an instance of the 

 abundance of Rhizopods frequently found together in Sphagnum, 

 Prof. Leidy stated that he had recently collected some from a cedar 

 swamp near Malaga, Gloucester County, N. J., and in the water 

 and sediment expressed from a small bunch, he had observed the 

 following forms: 



1. Difflugia pyriformis. Var. a. with shell of coarse sand ; 



var. b. with shell of chitinoid membrane with incorporated 

 diatomes and sand. Occasional. 



2. D. acuminata. Var. with shell of chitinoid membrane in- 



corporated with variable proportions of diatomes and 

 sand. Occasional. 



3. D. conslricta. Syn. D. cassis. Several varieties. Frequent. 



4. D. arcula. Shell hemispherical, of yellowish chitinoid 



membrane, with incorporated sand ; mouth trilobate. 

 Occasional. 



5. D. globulosa. Small forms. Frequent. 



6. D. spiralis. Rare. 



7. Nebela collaris. Syn. N.numata. Of many varieties, of 



different sizes and proportions. Some in the structure of 

 the shell related with Diffiugia. Abundant. 



8. N. flabellulum. Few. 



9. N. barbala. Occasional. 



10. N. ansata. Occasional. 



11. N. carinata. Rare. 



12. N. caudata. Rare. 



13. N. retorta, n. s. A single active living specimen. Shell 



retort form, nearly like that of Cyphoderia ampulla, but 

 laterally compressed, and having the structure as in N. 

 collaris. Length 0.144 mm., greater breadth 0.072 ; lesser 

 breadth 0.036 ; breadth of mouth 0.027 mm. 

 14 Arcella vulgaris. Few. 



15. A. discoides. Frequent. 



16. A. mitrata. Rare. 



17. Heleopera picta. Occasional. 



18. H. petricola. Less frequent than the former, but more so 



than previously observed. Shell incorporated with vari- 

 able proportions of sand. 



19. Quadrula symmetrica. Occasional. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



20. Centropyxis aculeata. Occasional. 



21. G. ecornis. Frequent. 



22. Hyalosphenia papilio. Not so abundant as usual. 



23. H. elegans. Not so abundant as usual. 



24. Euglypha ciliata. Frequent. Small ones and some of the 



larger ones hairless. 



25. E. cristata. Frequent. 



26. E. brachiata. Occasional. 



27. E. mucronata. Occasional. Several without the mucro. 



28. Assulina seminulum. Syn. Euglypha brunnea ; E.tincta. 



Frequent. 



29. Sphenoderia lenta. Sj T n. Euglypha globosa. Frequent. 



30. S. macrolepis, n. s. First observed. Small, compressed 



pyriform, with broad neck. Body on the broader sur- 

 faces with a single pair of wide hexagonal plates. Length 

 0.036 mm.; breadth 0.024 mm. Frequent. 



31. Cyphoderia ampulla. Syn. G. margaritacea. Rare. 



32. Trinema enchelys. Numerous and of much variety. Several 



of a brown color, as in Arcella. 



33. Placocista spinosa. Syn. Euglypha spinosa. Rare. 



34. Pseudodifflugia gracilis. Syn. Pleurophrys sphaerica. Oval 



form. Occasional. 



35. Clathrvlina elegans. Detached and dead, or in an encysted 



condition. Few. 



36. Hyalolampe fenestrata. Few 



37. Acanthocystis ? Colorless, and with simple, deli- 



cate un forked spines. Few. 



38. Amphizonella violacea? A single individual. 



39. Amoeba radiosa. Rare. 



40. Amoeba ? Young of A. proteus. Rare. 



With the foregoing there were associated many desmids, dia- 

 toms, rotifers, anguillulas, etc. 



June 24. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Seventeen members present. 



Note on Lonas inodora. Mr. Thomas Meehan exhibited speci- 

 mens of this Mediterranean plant, an escape from a garden, found 

 growing wild in a swamp in association with Iris versicolor, Ono- 

 clea sensibilis, and other moisture-loving plants. The}' had made 

 a growth of near two feet long, and the heads of flowers in all 

 cases had ray florets, with the ligulate portions an inch in length. 

 In garden culture the heads were nearty discoid, the ray petals 

 being almost obsolete, and in De Candolle's description the dis- 

 coid heads are inven as a generic character. 




1G4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1819. 



Mr. Median also referred to the well known relationship be- 

 tween Gomposilse and Umbelliferse, and noted the presence of 

 vittse in the akenes of this plant as a point of agreement between 

 the two orders, uncommon in those of the Composite family. 



The Larva of Eurypauropus spinosus. Mr. J. A. Ryder an- 

 nounced that, in a vial in which he had kept four living specimens 

 of this animal for two months past, he had found a single speci- 

 men of its very minute hexagonal larva about one-hundredth of 

 an inch long. It had three segments, and a very rudimentary 

 fourth one, and was of a pale reddish or lilac color; exceedingly 

 compressed, more so relatively than the adults, and with the 

 antennae bifurcate as in the latter. The specimen in life was 

 almost as wide as long. Remains of the shells of ova w r ere also 

 found in a crevice in the same piece of decayed wood upon which 

 the larva was found, and the adults were seen to get into the 

 same crevice and remain for a da} r at a time, so that it is fair to 

 infer that they are probably the parents of the larva in question. 

 The finding of this larva places the validity of the species beyond 

 question, and also renders it quite certain that six segments is the 

 normal number in the adult. The ease with which these animals 

 bear confinement for a protracted period gives promise that still 

 other specimens of larva? may be looked for in the same vial in 

 the course of the season. 



Wm. P. Foulke was elected a member. 



July 1. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty members present. 



A paper entitled " On the Genera of Felidoe and Canidae," by 

 Edw. D. Cope, was presented for publication. 



The death of Thomas S. Root, a member, was announced. 



July 8. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twentj'-five members present. 



Fossil Foot Tracks of the Anthracite Coal Measures. Prof. 

 Leidy read a letter from Mr. W. Lorenz, Chief Engineer of the 

 Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Co., referring to the fossil 

 specimen presented this evening by Mr. Wm. D. H. Mason, of 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



Williamstown, Pa. The specimen is a mass of coal shale, with 

 foot prints, and was discovered by the donor at the Ellangowan 

 Colliery, in strata between the Primrose and Mammoth veins, in 

 the Mahanoy coal field. Mr. Lorenz remarks that it is of especial 

 interest, as the first specimen of the kind found in the Anthracite 

 coal field. The Sauj-opus jyrimeevus of Lea, of which the original 

 specimen is preserved in our museum, was discovered in the um- 

 bral red shale, near Pottsville, belonging to the subcarboniferous 

 series. 



The specimen before us is an irregular slab, upwards of a foot 

 long and less than half the breadth. The upper surface is obscurely 

 ripple marked longitudinally, and is crossed in a slant by seven 

 tracks, which are in pairs, except one in advance on the right. Three 

 only are complete, the others being imperfect. The four tracks on 

 the right occupy a line of six inches, and are about an inch and a 

 half apart from those on the left. The tracks appear to be single, that 

 is to say, not produced by fore and hind feet together,and no distinc- 

 tion can be detected between impressions of these. The more per- 

 fect impressions exhibit four widely divergent 

 toes, successively increasing in length from 

 within outwardlj 7 , excepting that the fourth 

 toe is slightly shorter than the third. A feeble 

 rounded impression of a sole is visible behind 

 the toes. The expanse of the tracks is about 

 an inch. The accompanying outline will give 

 an idea of their form, though the sole compara- 

 tively with the toes is not so distinctlj r defined. The intervals of 

 the toes appear not to be webbed, or at most are only feebly so. 



The impressions are probably those of an amphibian, and per- 

 haps pertained to some salamandroid animal. 



As it is customary to refer to fossil foot tracks, as representing 

 the animals by which they were made, under distinct names, it 

 would be proper to designate the present specimen in the same 

 way. In accordance with its discovery in the Anthracite coal 

 field, and from the colliery in which the specimen was found, Mr. 

 Lorenz suggests that it should be called the Anthracopus ellan- 



G0WENSIS. 



On Sex in Castanea Americana. Mr. Thomas Meehan referred 

 to the flowers of the common chestnut, Castanea Americana, and 

 pointed out that the flowers were the products of axillary buds, 

 which, in young trees, would have borne branches. These spikes 

 of male flowers fell off by an articulation in the axils of the leaves 

 soon after the flowers were mature, and it was remarkable that in 

 young trees that had not arrived at bearing condition, the buds 

 also fell by an articulation before developing the axillary branch- 

 let. Sometimes the leaves would be considerably advanced before 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [18?9. 



the disarticulation occurred. Chestnut branches several years 

 old would be found full of these scars where the buds had been ; 

 but never would be found a perfect dormant bud, except at the 

 termination of a branch, after the branch was one year old. There 

 seemed to be whole classes of trees with distinct peculiarities in 

 this respect. Leguminosse would preserve dormant buds for an 

 indefinite number of years. In Gymnocladus, the Kentucky coffee 

 tree, the axillary bud of the one year branch could be found 

 twenty years afterwards just beneath the bark, in the position it 

 first occupied, having in all that time grown just enough as the 

 tree grew to keep just beneath the surface. The same is true of 

 magnolias. In some, 3 r oung branchlets came from the axillary 

 buds the spring following their formation, and continued an ex- 

 istence as weak branchlets for a few years until starved out by 

 the stronger ones, but when they reached a flowering condition 

 the whole axillary bud died out with the effort of producing 

 flowers. This was well illustrated by some maples. There was a 

 third class which produced flowers and also an axillary bud, and 

 these continued alwa3's through life twiggy branching trees, de- 

 pending also on ultimate starvation of the branchlets to keep the 

 supply of main branches within hounds. Birches are good exam- 

 ples of this class. The chestnut seems to be the only tree which 

 takes the matter in hand in time, and keeps down a superabund- 

 ance of branchlets by a disarticulation of the buds themselves, 

 though in arbor vitres, deciduous cypress, and some others, there 

 is a disarticulation of superabundant branches after they are a year 

 or so old, in this way keeping finally but a few main branches to 

 preserve the form and permit of the functions of the head of the 

 tree. 



In the growing branch of the flowering chestnut tree the first 

 four or five axillary buds, instead of a branch or futile buds for 

 next spring, produce at once spikes of male flowers. Often the 

 two upper axillary buds remain till next spring, to run the chance 

 of being thrown off as a bud, or perchance to make a weak branch- 

 let. After these buds have been formed, a subsidiary second 

 growth is formed, and from this renewed growth another crop of 

 male flowers, at the base of which, if at all, two or three clusters 

 of female flowers appear. The first crop of wholly male flowers 

 disappears without apparently being of any service whatever in re- 

 production. It is an enormous waste of energy if the fertilization 

 of flowers be the sole end of production. In each spike there were 

 about fifty clusters, and at least five flowers in each cluster, and 

 there were about five of these precocious spikes to each branch 

 that might in the end bear two or three female flowers, or, in round 

 numbers, over one thousand male flowers to one female, and when 

 we remember that half the branches produce only the precocious 

 male flowers, there would be two thousand males to one female, 

 even under the best circumstances; but, as already noted, the 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1G7 



whole mass of flowers which give so much charm to a chestnut 

 tree fall off without any influence whatever on the fruit production 

 of any trees in the vicinity, as the female flowers are not in bloom 

 till these showy early ones have fallen, and depend on the second 

 crop of male flowers for fertilization. 



For what purpose is this immense mass of bloom with its result- 

 ant pollen created ? Mr. Median believed that modern teleology 

 based on the selfish idea that acts of each individual are solely 

 for its own good, or the good of its immediate descendants, was 

 wrong. The animal world, in the shape of insects perhaps, or in 

 any other way, could be no more said to be created for the vege- 

 table, as fertilizers of flowers, than were plants for them. It is a 

 popular saying, that mouths were not created before something 

 was prepared to put into them ; and scientifically this might be 

 reduced to the proposition, that plants may be made to behave 

 and to produce, for ends having no relation whatever to their own 

 individual wants, but that all things might be made to work to- 

 gether in harmony for some universal good. 



Mr. Red field asked whether it might not be that chestnut woods 

 in more southern latitudes, and with female flowers more advanced, 

 could receive the pollen from the precocious flowers of these 

 northern trees ; and, in view of the accidents liable to such a dis- 

 tant transmission by the winds, nature provided this immense 

 superabundance to make the cross-fertilization more certain? 



Mr. Meehan replied that he could not say ; but if an answer to 

 his questions were to be met by any of the prevailing theories on 

 the necessities or utilities of cross-fertilization, he would like to 

 ask what was the use of odor in the event of Mr. Redfield's ques- 

 tion being answered affirmatively ? The male flowers of the sweet 

 chestnut were remarkably odoriferous. A fair sized bunch in a room 

 would give fragrance to a whole house. Where would be the use of 

 adding this powerful odor to flowers in mere arrangements for 

 cross-fertilization by the aid of winds ? 



The following paper was ordered to be printed : 




1G8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1819. 



ON THE GENERA OF FELIDiE AND CANIDJE. 

 BY E. D. COPE. 



FELID.E. 



The discovery of extinct species from time to time, renders it 

 necessary to re-examine the definitions of the families and genera 

 into which living forms naturally fall. We thus learn the charac- 

 ters of their primitive types, and the successive steps through which 

 they passed in attaining their present characteristics. The Felidae 

 are known as that family of Carnivora in which the feet and 

 teeth are most specialized for the functions of seizing and lace- 

 rating living prey. The number of living species enumerated by 

 Pr. Gray is sixty-four, which he throws into a number of genera. 

 The extinct species yet known are less numerous, but they present 

 a greater variety of structure than the former. Two types or 

 series may be recognized among the genera, namely those repre- 

 sented by the genera Felis and Mach&rodus respectively. All of 

 the latter are extinct. 



The greater number of the genera allied to Macochrodus are 

 distinguished by the great development of the superior canine 

 teeth, whose crowns are generally compressed and trenchant. 

 The corresponding part of the mandible is expanded downwards 

 so as to furnish a protection to the slender crown from fracture 

 by lateral blows when not in use, but in some of the genera, e. g. 

 Mmravus, this flange is not developed The only definition 

 which can be used to distinguish these sections of the family, is 

 found in the angular separation of the anterior and lateral planes 

 of the ramus of the mandible, and this character cannot be ex- 

 pected to remain unaffected by future discovery. Forms will 

 doubtless be found in which the angle is obsolete, and in which 

 the lateral and anterior faces pass gradually into each other. 

 Other characters which distinguish the extinct o-enera are found 

 in the numbers of molar teeth, and, what has been heretofore 

 neglected, the number of lobes of the molars themselves. 



As regards the existing genera, Dr. Gray 1 has brought out their 



1 Catalogue of Carnivorous, Pachydermatous, and Edentate Mammalia 

 in the British Museam. By John Edward Gray, F.R.S., V.P.Z.S., F.L.S., 

 etc. London, 1869. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



characters more fully than any other author. He points out the 

 fact that in some of the species the orbits are closed behind, 

 and in others open. He first examined into the manner of the 

 contraction and closing of the pupil in the presence of light, and 

 pointed out the fact that in the large cats it is always round and 

 approximates a point in closing, while in the smaller forms the 

 pupil closes as a vertical slit. He shows that the cats of the 

 former group have the smaller orbits of the cranium, and the lat- 

 ter the larger. Dr. Gray, however, uses other characteristics in 

 the discrimination of the genera, which are, in my estimation, 

 quite inadmissible; as the relative length of the muzzle and of 

 the premaxillary bones; also of the hair on different parts of the 

 body and tail. Such features of proportion are essential as 

 characters of species, but not of genera. In accordance with 

 these views, I have united several of Dr. Gray's divisions into 

 groups, which I call genera, and which repose on some definite 

 structural characters. Thus I combine his Uncia, Tigris, Leo and 

 Leopardus into a genus for which I employ his name Uncia, as the 

 least objectionable, 1 after having confirmed by autopsy the circu- 

 lar character of the pupil. This I was enabled to do through the 

 courtesy of my friend Arthur E. Brown, Superintendent of the 

 Philadelphia Zoological Garden, who aided me in examining the 

 eyes of these animals both by sunlight and the light of a bull's- 

 eye lantern.- The detailed characters of the genera will now be 

 given : 



I. The anterior and lateral faces of the mandible separated by 

 an angle. 



a. inferior sectorial with a heel ; no anterior lobe of supe- 

 rior sectorial ; no posterior lobes of the premolars. 

 * An inferior tubercular molar. 



Premolars . Dinictis. 



Premolars f. Nimraous. 



1 I assume that this name is derived from uncus, a hook, whicli is appro- 

 priate to the weapons of these animals. 



2 I add the following notes on some other Garnivora, which do not 

 come within the scope of this paper : 



Mymna crocuta. Pupils a vertical slit. 



Viverridce. Three species of Ichneumon and viverricula, a horizontal 

 oval. 



Nasua. A horizontal oval. 

 12 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



** No inferior tubercular molar. 



Premolars ; incisors . Hoplophoneus. 



Premolars T ; incisors ^. Eusmilus. 



oa. Inferior sectorial without heel ; an anterior lobe of the 

 superior sectorial, and posterior lobes of the premolars. 

 Premolars f, first inferior two rooted. Machserodus. 



Premolars ^n', first inferior one rooted. Smilodon. 



II. The anterior and lateral faces of the mandible continuous, 

 convex. (No inferior tubercular molar.) 

 a. Inferior sectorial tooth with a heel. 



Premolars f , no posterior lobes ; second superior with in- 

 ternal heel (plantigrade). Cryptoprocta. 

 Premolars with posterior lobes; no heel of second supe- 

 rior. Pseudselurus. 

 oa. Inferior sectorial without heel ; premolars with posterior 

 lobes; superior sectorial with anterior lobe. 

 ]3. Superior sectorial with internal heel. 

 y. Pupil round. 



Premolars f. Uncia. 



Premolars . Neofelis. 



yy. Pupil vertical. 



Orbit closed behind ; premolars f . Catolynx. 



Orbit open ; premolars . Felis. 



Orbit open ; premolars \. Lyncus. 



/3j3. Superior sectorial without internal heel. 



Pupil round, premolars ; orbit open posterioi'ly. 



Cynselurus. 



The following catalogue includes the species of the Felidse, the 

 names of the recent ones being derived from Gray's Catalogue, 

 and printed in Roman letters. These are probably too numerous 

 in the genera Felis and Lyncus, but I do not possess the means 

 of properly disposing of them. 



Dinictis, Leidy. Aelurogale, Filhol. ?Daptophilus, Cope. 



D. intermedia, Filhol. Phosphorites, France. 

 D. squalidens, Cope. White River, Colorado. 

 D.felina, Leidy. White River, Nebraska. 

 D. cyclops, Cope. White River, Oregon. 



Nimravus, Cope. 



N. brachyops, Cope. White River, Oregon. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 171 



Hoplophoneus, Cope. 



H. primasvus, Leidy. White Eiver, Nebraska. 

 H. occidentalism Leidy. White River, Nebraska. 



Eusmilus, Gervais. 



E. bidentatus, Filhol. Phosphorites, France. 



Maelieerodus, Kaup. Agnotherium, Kaup. Drepanodon, Nesti. 



M. palmidens, Blv. Falunian Sansan. 



31. ogygius, Kaup. Oeningian, Epplesheim. 



31. antiquus, Nesti. Pliocene, Italy, France. 



M. falconer i, Pomel. Upper Miocene, India. 



31. cultridens, Cuv. Pliocene, Europe. 



31. latidens, Ourn. Pliocene, England. 



31. aphanista, Kaup. Oeningian, Epplesheim. 



31. maritimus, Gerv. Pliocene, Montpellier. 



Smilodon, Lund. 



S. neogseus, Lund. Pliocene, Brazil. 

 S. necator, Gervais, Buenos Ayres. 



Cryptoprocta, Bennett. 



C. ferox, Bennett. Madagascar. 

 Pseudaelurus, Gervais. 



P. hyaenoides, Lartet. Falunian Sansan. 



P. intrepidus, Leidy. Loup River, Nebraska. 



P. edwardsi, Filhol. Phosphorites, France. 



P. ? intermedins, Filhol. Phosphorites, France. 



P. sivalensis, Lydekker. 



Catolyns, Gray. Viverriceps, Gray. 



C. marmoratus, Martin. India, Borneo. 



C. charltoni, Gray. Nepal, Darjeeling (Charlton). 



C. viverrina, Bennett. East Indies. 



C. planiceps, Yig. and Horsf. Malacca, Sumatra, Borneo. 



C. ellioti, Gray. Madras. 



C. rubiginosa, I. Geoff. India, Madras. 



Felis, Linn. Pardalina, Felis, and Chans, Gray. 



F. pardalis, L. America, tropical or subtropical. 



F. grisea, Gra}'-. Gautemala. 



F. melanura, Ball. America. 



F. picta, Gray. Central America. 



F. pardoides, Gray. Tropical America. 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



F. macroura, Pr. Max. de Wied. Brazil. 



F. mitis, F. Cuv. Mexico. ? Paraguay. ? 



F. tiffrina, Schreb. South America. 



F. geoffroyi, D'Orb. South America. 



F. colocolla, Molina, South America, Chili (Molina), Surinam 

 (H. Smith). 



F. jaguarondi, Lacep. South America. 



F. eyra, Desm. Tropical America. 



F. serval, Schreb. South and West Africa. 



F. rutila, Waterhouse, Sierra Leone. 



F. neglecta, Gray. Gambia. 



F. servalina, Ogilbj'. Sierra Leone. 



F. celidogaster, Temra. Guinea. 



F. senegalensis, Lesson. Senegal. 



F rninuta (pars.), Temm. Sumatra. 



F. javanensis, Horsf. Java. 



F. nepalensis, Vig. and Horsf. India (perhaps a hybrid or 

 domesticated). 



F. chinensis, Gray. China. 



F. pardinoides, Gray. India (Capt. Junes.) 



F. pardochroa, Hodgson. Nepal (Hodgson). Tenasserira 

 (Packman). 



F. tenasserimensis, Gray. India, Tenasserim (Packman). 



F. jerdoni, Blyth. Indian Peninsula, Madras. 



F. herscheli, Gray. India, " Zanzibar." ? 



F. wagati, Elliot. India. 



F. caligata, Temm. Africa, North, South, Central, and East. 



F. inconspicua, Gray. India (domesticated or perhaps a 

 variety). 



F. domestica, Brisson. Syria. ? Domesticated in most coun- 

 tries. 



F. manul, Pallas. Thibet. 



F. catus, L. Europe. 



F. megalotis, Muller. Timar. 



F. himalayanus, Gray. Himalaya (Cross, Warwick). 



F. jacquemonti, J. Geoffr. Africa and Asia. 



F. ornata, Gray. India (Capt. Boys). 



F. catolynx, Pallas. Nepal (Hodgson). 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 173 



Lyncus, Raf. Pajeros, Lynx et Caracal, Gray. 



L. pajeros, Desm. South America. The Pampas. 



L. borealis, Gray. Northern Europe, Sweden. 



L. canadensis, Geoffr. North America. 



L. pardinus, Temm. Southern Europe, Turkey. 



L. isabellinus, Blyth. Thibet. 



L. rufus, Giildenst. North America. 



L. maculatus, Vig. and Horsf. North America, Mexico, and 



California. 

 L. caracal, Schreb. Southern Asia and Africa, Persia and 



Arabia. 



Neofelis, Gray. 



N. macrocelis, Temm. Himalaya (Hodgson), Malacca. 



N. brachyurus (Temm), Siam. Svvinhoe, Formosa (Swinhoe). 



TJncia, Gray, Cope emend. Leo, Tigris et Leopardus, Gray. 



U. coneolor, L. North and South America. 



U. auratus, Temm. Himalaya, Sumatra, Borneo. 



TJ. onca, L. South America, Mexico, Texas. 



U. chinensis, Gray. Pekin, mountain forests of the west. 



TJ. japonensis, Gray. Japan. 



TJ. pardus, L. Southern Asia, North, South, and West Africa. 



TJ. tigris, L. Asia. 



TJ. leo, L. Africa, India. 



TJ. irbis. Thibet. 



Cynaelurus, Wagler. Gueparda, Gray. 



C. jubatus, L. Africa, Asia, Persia, Cape of Good Hope. 

 ? C.ferox, Leidy (Aelurodon). Loup River, Nebraska. 



The successive order of the modifications of structure Which 

 define the above genera is not difficult to perceive, and it is inter- 

 esting to discover that, as in other cases, it coincides with the 

 succession in geologic time. The typical genera Uncia, Felis, etc., 

 are characterized by great specialization, and it is they which now 

 exist. The oldest found Dimctis, Nimravus, etc., are the least 

 specialized in most respects, and they disappeared before the close 

 of Miocene time. 



Since one of the special characters of the Felidse is the reduc- 

 tion in the number of the molar teeth by subtraction from both 

 ends of the series, an increased number of these constitutes re- 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



semblance to other families. The genus Diniclis, above defined, 

 has been shown by Leidy to possess two more inferior molars 

 than Felis, or three more than Neofelis and Lynx, as in the 

 Mustelidse. The extinct Pseudselurus and the living Cryptoprocta 

 have but one less molar than Dinictis, lacking the posterior 

 tubercular. Nimravus has the same number of molars as Pseu- 

 dselurus, but lacks the first premolar instead of the last true 

 molar. In Hoplophoneus we first find the number of molars as in 

 the existing genera, viz., Pra. m. j. Other characters of this 

 genus are, however, of a generalized kind. 



I here recall the statement that the genera of Felidse fall into 

 two series, which are distinguished by the forms of the anterior 

 part of the mandibular rami, and generally by the large size of 

 the canine teeth to which the former are adapted. This distinc- 

 tion appeared early in Miocene, or Oligocene time, in fact in the 

 oldest of the cats of which we have any knowledge. The genera 

 with large canines or Maehserodontine line were then represented 

 by Dinictis, and the Feline line by Pseudselurus. It is interest- 

 ing to observe that these genera differed from their latest proto- 

 types in the same way, viz.: (1) in the presence of more numer- 

 ous inferior molars ; (2) in the presence of a heel of the inferior 

 sectorial ; (3) in the absence of an anterior cusp of the superior 

 sectorial. In the case of Dinictis one other character of primi- 

 tive carnivora may be noticed, viz.: the absence of the cutting 

 lobes on the posterior edges of the superior and inferior premolars, 

 so distinct in the existing cats. The same feature characterizes 

 the superior premolars of Pseudselurus, but the inferior premolars 

 have the lobes. In the existing Cryptoprocta, which Gervais has 

 shown to be nearly allied in dentition, to Pseudselurus, the lobes 

 are wanting from both jaws, but this genus adds to this primitive 

 character another of modern significance, viz., the presence of 

 the anterior cusp of the superior sectorial. Moreover Crypto- 

 procta has another peculiarity which recalls the genera of the 

 Eocene Creodonta, in the well-developed interior tubercle of the 

 third premolar, a character unknown in Miocene or existing Car- 

 nivora. That genus is evidently, like the Lemuridse, also of Mad- 

 agascar, a remnant of the Eocene Fauna, which once covered most 

 of the earth, and may be regarded as, on the whole, the most 

 primitive of the Felidse, recent and extinct. 



Following the two lines of Felidse already indicated, we attain 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



the same conclusion in both, by the same stages. The primitive 

 form of the Machaerodont line represented by Eoplophoneus has 

 its extreme in Eusmilus, where the second inferior premolar and 

 an incisor tooth are wanting, giving a formula of I. 2, C. I ; Pm. 

 1 ; M. 1. In Machserodus we have the modern characters of the 

 molars seen in Felis, viz., no heel of the inferior sectorial ; the 

 superior sectorial with an anterior lobe, and posterior lobes of the 

 premolars. The extreme of this line is reached in Smilodon, 

 where the second inferior premolar is one rooted or wanting. 

 This genus then stands- related to Machserodus, as Eusmilus to 

 Eopl()})honeus. In the Feline line proper, on reaching the exist- 

 ing genera, we have lost the heel of the inferior sectoiial and 

 gained the posterior lobes of the premolars and anterior lobe of 

 the superior sectorial at once. A further modification of the 

 dentition of the superior series of the recent forms, is seen in the 

 loss of the first superior premolar in Lynx and Neofelis. Still 

 another, which is one step beyond what is known in the Machaer- 

 odont line, is the loss of the interior tubercle of the superior 

 sectorial, which characterizes the genus Gynselurus. A superior 

 sectorial tooth having the character of that of this genus was 

 discovered by Dr. Hayden in the Loup River formation of 

 Nebraska, and was referred to a species by Dr. Leidy under the 

 name of Aelurodon ferox. It was much larger than the G.jubatus. 

 As already remarked, the genera of the Machaerodont line are 

 extinct, and this in spite of the fact that they presented the most 

 perfect weapons of destruction in their canine teeth, from the 

 earliest times. Their other modifications of structure advanced 

 pari passu with those of the Feline series, and, among others, 

 the feet presented in the latter forms at least (e. g., Smilodon 

 necator, Gew.),the most perfect prehensile power of the lions and 

 tigers of to-day. As nothing but the characters of the canine 

 teeth distinguished these from the typical felines, it is to these 

 that we must look for the cause of their failure to continue. Prof. 

 Flower's suggestion appears to be a good one, viz. : that the 

 length of these teeth became an inconvenience and a hindrance to 

 their possessors. I think there can be no doubt that the huge 

 canines in the Smilodons must have prevented the biting off of 

 flesh from large pieces, so as to greatly interfere with feeding, and 

 to keep the animals in poor condition. The size of the canines 

 is such as to prevent their use as cutting instruments, excepting 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



with the mouth closed, for the latter could not have been opened 

 sufficiently to allow any object to enter it from the front. Even 

 were it opened so far as to allow the mandible to pass behind the 

 apices of the canines, there would appear to be some risk of the 

 latter's becoming caught on the point of one or the other canine, 

 and forced to remain open, causing early starvation. Such may 

 have been the fate of the fine individual of the S. neogaeus, Lund, 

 whose skull was found in Brazil by Lund, and which is familiar 

 to us through the figures of Dr. Blainville, etc. 



Description of New Species. 

 Dinictis cyclops. 



The species of Dinictis differ in the proportions of their ante- 

 rior molar and canine teeth as follows: 



First inferior molar one rooted ; first superior molar two 

 rooted ; superior canine short, robust ; large. 



D. intermedia. 1 

 First inferior molar one rooted ; superior canine compressed ; 

 two inferior incisors. D. squalidens. 



First inferior molar two rooted ; first superior molar one 

 rooted; canine long, compressed. D. cyclops. 



First molar of both jaws two rooted ; canine long, com- 

 pressed. D.felina. 



In the D. cyclops the first superior molar is rudimental, and 

 will probably be found to be wanting in some specimens. The 

 second premolar has a distinct anterior tubercle on the inner side, 

 a character not seen in D.felina ; the anterior angle of the supe- 

 rior sectorial is more produced than in that species. The crown 

 of the superior tubercular looks partly inwards, is rather long, 

 and has three roots. The superior canine is quite long, and has 

 a regularly lenticular section, without facets. Its anterior and 

 posterior edges are denticulate. The external incisors are much 

 larger than the internal, and have subconic crowns. The crowns 

 of the others are subcuneiform. The inferior canines are consider- 

 ably larger than the incisors. The latter are regular, and do not 

 overlap each other. The second and third inferior premolars 

 have well-developed basal lobes anteriorly and posteriorly. The 



1 Aelurogale intermedia, Filhol. 




1879.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



177 



heel of the sectorial is well developed. The tubercular is very 

 small. 



The form of the skull is short and wide ; the zygomata are 

 much expanded, and the profile is very convex. The muzzle is 

 short, and the orbits are rather larsfe. The interorbital region is 

 wide and convex, and the postorbital processes are robust, acu- 

 minate, and directed downwards. The infra-orbital foramen is 

 very large. The apices of the premaxillary bones are elongate, 

 but do not reach the frontals. The nasals are rounded posteriorly. 

 The sagittal crest is prominent, and the inion elevated. The 

 posttympanic process is short, and the paroccipital is short and 

 is directed backwards. The cranium is constricted behind the 

 orbits. The mandibular ramus is low posteriorly, and the ante- 

 rior inferior flange is well-developed, but not large. 



Measurements. M. 



Length of skull on base 140 



Width of skull, measured below . . . . .111 



Length of palate 060 



Width of palate between posterior angles of sec- 

 torials 062 



Width of palate between canines .... .020 

 Length of skull to front of orbits (axial) . . .050 

 Vertical diameter of orbit ..... .031 



Intei-orbital width (least) 045 



Elevation of inion from foramen 032 



Length of inferior molar series 050 



Length of inferior sectorial 018 



Length of base of inferior first premolar . . .055 



Depth of ramus at sectorial 016 



Depth of ramus at first premolar .... .021 



Depth of ramus at flange 026 



From the Truckee beds of John Day River, Or* 



egon. 



CANID.E. 



The range of variation presented by the species of Canidse in- 

 cludes several generic divisions, recent and extinct. These genera 

 are, however, as closely intergraded as are those of the cats, and 

 their definite characters are subject to occasional failure from ab- 




1*78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



normal variations. These are, however, not so frequent as to 

 invalidate the classification to which they form the exceptions. 



The Canidee appeared in the Upper Eocene period, and the 

 genus Ganis was well represented by species in the lowest Mio- 

 cene in Europe and the United States, The other genera are 

 represented by fewer species, and many of them are extinct. The 

 foxes ( Vulpes) are the most numerous of them, and but few extinct 

 species of them are known. America presents us with the greatest 

 variety of genera, as Enhydrocyon, Temnocyon, and Palseocyon 

 extinct, and Icticyon, extinct aud recent. Speothus, extinct in 

 America, still exists in Asia. 



The most complete catalogue of the species Canidse is that of 

 Dr. Gra} r . In his work the author brings together observations 

 of various naturalists, and adds a number of his own. He admits 

 a large number of generic divisions, but many of these, like those 

 of his Felidse, are simply founded on specific characters. A few 

 good genera, however, exist, and a synopsis of their characters is 

 given below. The genus Megalotis is here excluded from the 

 Canidse on account of the unspecialized character of the superior 

 sectorial tooth, as is done by Dr. Gray : 



I. True molars . 



Premolars f ; inferior sectorial with internal tubercle. 



Amphicyon. 



II. True molars f. 



Premolars | ; inferior sectorial with internal tubercle. 



Thous. 



III. True molars . 

 a. Premolars f . 



/3. Inferior sectorial without internal tubercle. 



Heel of sectorial cutting. Palseocyon. 



/3j3. Inferior sectorial with internal tubercle, 

 y. Four toes in the manus ; 



A sagittal crest. Lycaon. 



77. Five toes in the manus. 

 8. Heel of sectorial simply cutting. 



A median sagittal crest (?toes). Temnocyon. 



58. Heel of sectorial concave, with raised borders. 



Pupil round; temporal fossa with simple superior border. 



Canis. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



Pupil erect ; temporal fossa with simple superior border. 



Vulpes. 

 Pupil erect ; temporal fossa bounded above by a rib-like 

 crest. Urocyon. 



aa. Premolars . 



Inferior sectorial with internal tubercle and cutting heel. 



Enhydrocyon. 

 Inferior sectorial with internal tubercle, and wide tubercu- 

 lar heel. Tomarctus. 

 IY. True molars . 

 a. Premolars %. 



Inferior sectorial with internal tubercle. Speothus. 



Inferior sectorial without internal tubercle (superior molar 

 sometimes one). Synagodus. 



aa. Premolars f . 



Inferior sectorial without internal tubercle (incisors caduc- 

 ous). Dysodus. 

 Y. True molars h- 



Premolars |; inferior sectorial with internal tubercle. 



Icticyon. 



It is discoverable that the series represented b} r the above genera 

 is a part of the greater line of the digitigrade Carnivora, embrac- 

 ing the greater part of it which is less specialized than, or infe- 

 rior to, the part covered by the Hysenidse and Felidse. Without 

 entering into the relations of the Canidee with the civets and 

 Jfustelidse, it may be remarked that the genera display a succes- 

 sive reduction in the number of premolars and molars from the 

 more ancient to modern geologic times. It is interesting to note 

 that the genera presenting the greatest reduction in all respects, 

 Synagodus and Dysodus, are now only known in a domesticated 

 condition. Another reduction is seen in the number of tubercles 

 of the inferior sectorial. 



Amphicyon, Lartet. 



This genus is better represented in Em-ope than in North Ame- 

 rica, but two species being certainly known from the latter. No 

 recent species. 



Thous, Gray, Dusicyon, Smith (nomen nudum). 



Existing species of South America only. 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



Palaeocyon, Lund. 



Extinct species of South America onty. 



Lycaon, Brooks. 



Existing species of Africa, only known as yet. 



Temnocyon, Cope, Proceedings Amer. Philosophical Society, 1878, p. 68. 



In this genus the heel of the inferior sectorial tooth rises into 

 a single more or less median crest; in Canis the corresponding 

 front is basin-shaped, with tubercles on each side. The superior 

 molars of the typical species, T. altigenis, are unknown, but those 

 of a new species, described below, do not differ from those of the 

 genus Cants. The Cynodictis crassirostris of Filhol, from the 

 French Phosphorites, approaches this genus. 



Temnocyon coryphaeus, sp. nov. 



This is the most abundant dog of the Truckee beds of the 

 John Day country. I have identified it heretofore as my Canis 

 haiishornianus, but I And on examination of the inferior sectorial 

 tooth that it is a species of Temnocyon. This genus was charac- 

 terized by me on evidence furnished by a mandible of a species 

 which I named T. altigenis, 1 which is of considerably larger size 

 than the present one, but which agrees with it in the presence of a 

 cutting edge instead of a basin on the heel of the inferior secto- 

 rial. The C. hartshornianus, known as yet from few fragments, 

 is intermediate in dimensions between these two. 



Several crania, and more or less of the skeleton of the T. cory- 

 phsens, are present in m} r collection. A nearly perfect skull dis- 

 plays the following characters : The orbits are entirely anterior 

 to the vertical line dividing the skull into halves, and the muz- 

 zle is proportionately shortened. It is also narrowed anteriorly, 

 and its median line above is shallowly grooved. The interor- 

 bital region is greatly convex to the supra-orbital region, and is 

 grooved medially. The postorbital processes are mere angles, 

 and are flattened from below. The cranium is much constricted 

 behind the orbits, where its diameter is not greater than the width 

 of the premaxillary incisive border. The sagittal crest is much 

 elevated, and forms a perfectly straight and gradually rising out- 

 line to its junction with the incisor. The borders of the latter 

 are very prominent, extending backwards considerably beyond 



1 Proceedings Amer. Philosopk. Soc, 1878, viii. p. 68. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



the brain case. The zygoma is rather slender, is elongate, and 

 but little expanded. The otic bullae are very large ; the paroccipi- 

 tal processes are directed backwards, at an angle of 45, and are 

 rather elongate and acute ; they cap the bullae posteriorly. The 

 lateral occipital crests bound a fossa of the occipital region near 

 the condyles. The occipital surface is directed horizontally back- 

 wards ahove the foramen magnum. This part of it, and its supe- 

 rior portion, are divided by a median keel. 



The basioccipital is keeled on the middle line below. The 

 sphenoid is not keeled, and is concave, its borders descending on 

 the inner side of the bullae. The ptei\ygoid fossa is rather narrow, 

 and the hamular process is short. The posterior border of the 

 palate does not extend anterior to the posterior edges of the last 

 tubercular molar, and its middle portion projects backwards in a 

 triangular process. The palatine fossa for the inferior sectorial 

 is shallow. The superior surface of the postorbital region is 

 roughened. 



The foramen infraorbitale exterius is rather large, and issues 

 above the anterior border of the sectorial tooth. The f. incixiva 

 are short, not extending posterior to the middle of the canines. 

 The /. palatina are opposite the posterior border of the sectorial. 

 The/, lachrymale is altogether within the orbital border. The/. 

 opticum is rather large. This species is peculiar in having the' 

 /. /. spheno-orbitale, rotundum, and alisph enoidale anterius united 

 into one large external orifice. The alisphenoid canal is larger in 

 Canis latrans, and its posterior foramen small. The /. ovale is 

 further removed from the/, alisphenoidale than in the coyote, and 

 is exterior to and a little behind the/, carotideum. 



The nasal bones extend to above the middles of the orbits, and 

 contract gradually to their apex. Their combined anterior border 

 is a regular concave, and the lateral angles at this point are pro- 

 duced outwards and forwards. The posterior apex of the pre- 

 maxillary bone is separated from the anterior apex of the frontal 

 by a short space. The maxillo-malar suture is deeply notched in 

 front below, and it extends upwards to above the infra-orbital 

 foramen. A very narrow surface of the lachrymal is exposed on 

 the external surface. The pterygoid bone is distinct, and is nearly 

 equally bounded by the sphenoid and palatine on the outer side. 

 The inferior suture of the orbito-sphenoid runs in a groove, which 

 is deepest anteriorly. 




182 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1879. 



The crowns of all the incisor teeth are narrow or compressed, 

 and, though slightly worn, present no indication of notch. As 

 usual, the external ones are much the largest in antero-posterior 

 diameter. The canines have robust fangs and rapidly tapering 

 crowns, which are but little compressed. The first superior pre- 

 molar is one-rooted, and the crown is simple. The crown of the 

 second is without posterior heel and tubercle, while the third pos- 

 sesses both. The sectorial is relatively short, less so than in C. 

 latrans. The blades are low and obtuse as compared with recent 

 species, and the notch separating them is quite open. The ante- 

 rior external heel is small, and there is no anterior external tuber- 

 cle. The first tubercular molar is large, and the crown is nar- 

 rower than that of C. latrans. It has an obtuse external cingulum. 

 two external conical cusps, a V-shaped median ridge, and a wide 

 internal cingulum. This crown differs from the corresponding one 

 of C. latrans in having conical instead of compressed external 

 cusps, and a simple Y-shaped crest within instead of two adjacent 

 cusps. The second tubercular is smaller than in C. latrans, and 

 its tubercles are less distinct. There are two outer tubercles, a 

 Y-shaped ridge, and an inner cingulum, all very obscure. The 

 enamel of all these teeth is smooth. 



Measurements of Cranium. 



Length along base of skull, including incisive bor- 

 der and occipital condyle 



Length of skull to palatal notch 



Length of skull to posterior border of pterj-goid 

 bone 



Length to front of orbit axially 



Width between zygomas (greatest) 



Width between oi'bits (least) . 



Width at postorbital constriction . 



Width between bases of canines 



Width between bases of second tuberculars 



Width between otic bullae 



Width between apices of paroccipitals . 



Width of foramen magnum 



Width of occiput above .... 



Six well-preserved crania of this species are e 



M. 



.160 

 .075 



.102 

 .046 

 .094 

 .036 

 .021 

 .017 

 .027 

 .009 

 .042 

 .017 

 .032 



nbraced in the 



collection, and the mandible remains attached to some of them. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 183 



One of these exhibits the following characters : there is a well- 

 developed marginal lobe of the posterior cutting edge of the third 

 and fourth premolars as well as a low posterior heel, and a rudi- 

 ment of an anterior one. The heel of the sectorial is shorter than 

 the remaining part of the tooth, and rises to a cutting edge a little 

 external to the middle line ; there is a small tubercle at its inte- 

 rior base. The anterior blade-cusp of the sectorial is much lower 

 than the median, which is conical ; the two diverge, diminishing 

 the shear-like character and action of the tooth. The internal 

 cusp is well developed. The first tubercular is of moderate size, 

 and is a longitudinal oval in outline. The crown supports two 

 low tubercles anterior to the middle, of which the external is the 

 larger. The last molar has a single compressed root, and the 

 ci'own is a longitudinal oval in outline. Its position is on the 

 ascending base of the coronoid ramus, so that the crown is slightly 

 oblique. The masseteric fossa is profound and well defined ; its 

 anterior termination is below the middle of the second tubercular 

 tooth. The horizontal ramus is not robust, but is compressed, 

 and rather deep. 



Measurements of Mandible. m. 



Length along bases of posterior five molars . . .049 

 Length of base of fourth premolar . . . .011 



Elevation of crown 008 



Length of base of sectorial 018 



Elevation of crown of " 012 



Length of base of first tubercular 0075 



Width " " " 0050 



Length of base of second tubercular . . . .0050 



While the characters of this dog do not separate it widely from 

 the genus Cants, many of them are quite different from those 

 presented by the recent species of the genus with which I am ac- 

 quainted. Thus the union of the foramina spheno-orbitale and 

 rotunda, the anterior position of the orbits, and the postorbital 

 constriction are not seen in the wolf, domestic dog, coyote, jackal, 

 or the North American and European foxes. The size of the 

 brain was evidently less than in those species, and the sectorial 

 teeth quite inferior in the efficiency of their blades. These cha- 

 racters may be considered in connection with the low geological 

 position of the beds in which the species occurs. 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



From the Truckee beds of the White River formation in Oregon. 



Canis, Linn. 



The names proposed by Smith, Gray, and others, and which 

 must be regarded as synon3 T ms of Canis, are Lupus, Dieba, Si- 

 menia, Chrysocyon, and Lycalopex. Man}' of the species, referred 

 to by European paleontologists under the name of Cynodictis, 

 Pomel, appear to me to be undistinguishable from Canis. Through 

 the great kindness of M. Filhol, I possess specimens of the jaws 

 of several of these species. A mandible with nearly complete 

 dentition of the Cynodon velaunum of Aymard, agrees very 

 nearly with the jaws of some of the smaller species from the Ame- 

 rican White River beds, which I have referred to Canis. Helocyon, 

 Aym. may be distinct, but may not belong to the Ganidce. 



The dentition of man}' of the recent species of Canis differs in 

 very slight characters. The following may be detected in an ex- 

 amination of the superior molars of the three larger species most 

 accessible in the United States. 



Last superior tubercular short, wide; inner cingulum and crest 

 nearly confounded. 



Inner crest of tub. m. I. composed of two low tubercles. 



C.familiaris. 

 Vars. molossus, terrarius, graius. 



Last superior tubercular narrower, transverse ; inner cingulum 

 very distinct. 



Inner crest of tub. M. I., a ridge higher anteriorty. C. lupus. 

 Inner crest of tub. M. I. with two sharp cusps. C. latrans. 



It is worthy of note that the wide oval form of the second supe- 

 rior molar of the Canis familiaris, exists equally in the extreme 

 races or species, the gra3diound and bulldog, as I observe by ex- 

 amination of several crania of each. This has also been shown by 

 De Blainville. It is also seen in the terrier, and in various other 

 races. But in some Saint Bernard crania in the Museum of the 

 Acadeni}' of Natural Sciences, this tooth is more elongate ; and in 

 some of the specimens of Canis lupus from Europe its form is 

 quite the same. So this character, as might have been anticipated, 

 is not of universal application. Another character is seen in the 

 crania of three specimens, which are supposed to belong to Canis 

 terrarius. The superior border of the foramen magnum is inter- 

 rupted by a deep vertical excavation. This is not seen in the St. 




18*79.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



Bernard, the bulldog, greyhound, and other races, nor in any of 

 the feral or extinct species of the genus examined. It appears to 

 be associated with an increased size of the brain, and to bean 

 adaptation to the vermis of the cerebellum. The expansion of 

 the brain is also indicated by the protuberance of the frontal re- 

 gion, and the wide separation of the temporal fossae by a smooth 

 space on each side of. the sagittal suture. This space does not 

 exist in the greyhound, but a narrow one is found in the bulldog. 

 These characters are important on various grounds, but are here 

 mentioned in reference to the species of Synagodus and Dysodus, 

 where they reappear. The absence of the second inferior tuber- 

 cular molar is also not uncommon in the " black and tan" terrier. 

 I do not see the propriety of retaining the generic name Nycte- 

 reutes, Terara. for the Canis procyoninus of Japan. The pecu- 

 liarity it presents in the form of the first superior tubercular 

 molar, the only one 1 on which the genus reposes, I would regard 

 as specific only. 



Vulpes. 



I would, with Gill, refer to this genus the species mentioned 

 by Gray and others under the generic names Pseudalopex, Fenn- 

 ecus, and Leucocyon. The form of the post frontal process cer- 

 tainly does not furnish generic characters. 



TJrocyon, Baird. 



The peculiar cranial ridges, in which this genus resembles one 

 of the extinct genera of Ilustelidse, appears to me to be the cha- 

 racter which warrants its separation from Vulpes. 



Enhydrocyon, Cope, Bulletin U. S. Geological Survey, Terrs, v, 56, 1879. 



Two species from the White River beds of Oregon are known. 



Tomarctus, Cope, Ann. Report U. S. Geol. Surv. Terrs. 1873 (74), p. 519. Paleon- 

 tologieal Bulletin, 1873, Aug. 20, 1873. 



One species known from the Loup Fork beds of Colorado. It 

 is uncertain whether this genus has two orthree premolars. Should 

 it have three it must be compared with the Brachycyon of Filhol. 

 But the inferior sectorial tooth of that genus is as yet unknown. 

 Speothus, Lund, 1843. Cuon, Hodgs. 



One extinct species of this genus was found by Lund in caves 

 in Brazil. Another species, Speothus primeevus, is now living in 



1 According to the figures of Temminck and Schlegel. 

 13 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



the Himalaya region. Several other recent species have been 

 named, but they are said by some authors to be varieties only of 

 the S. primeevus.' 



Synagodus, Cope, gen. nov. 



The characters of this genus have been pointed out in the ana- 

 lytical key. They are evident^ as important as those which 

 define the divisions which are regarded as genera by naturalists. 

 It is not unlikely that the typical species has been heretofore esti- 

 mated as a variety of Canis familiaris, but it exhibits two tren- 

 chant generic dental charaeters not found in Canis, and three 

 unique specific characters in the teeth, besides two characters of 

 the cranium found in but one or two of the subspecies of Canis 

 familiaris. 



The generic characters alluded to are: (1) the absence of the 

 second inferior tubercular molar, and (2) the absence of the in- 

 ternal tubercle of the inferior sectorial. The absence of the second 

 inferior tubercular is evidently not one of those abnormal cases 

 which occur in various species of Cam's from time to time; for the 

 first tubercular molar is smaller than in any known species of 

 Canis, and has but one root, a character which some persons 

 might regard as being the third of the generic category. The 

 premolars are 4 4, and of the usual form; the first in both jaws is 

 one-rooted. 



It is uncertain whether any species of this genus exists in the 

 wild state. Should such not be the case, we can only predicate 

 the former existence of such an one entirely different from the 

 Canis familiaris, and which has given origin to the existing one 

 below described. 

 Synagodus mansuetus, sp. nor. 



Two crania represent this species in the Museum of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences. They agree in all essential particulars. The 

 incisor and premolar teeth present no peculiarities (the latter are 

 without marginal lobes), and the superior sectorial is normal. The 

 first tubercular has less transverse extent than in the Canidse 

 generally, and its median crest and inner cingulum are con- 

 founded, a character which I have not found in any of the other 

 species accessible. Thus the crown of this tooth consists of an 

 external pair of tubercles, a basin, and a stout inner marginal 

 prominence. The second tuberculars are abnormally small in one 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



specimen, and in the other they are wanting. The III. and IV. in- 

 ferior premolars have marginal posterior lobes. The inferior sec- 

 torial, as already stated, has no inner tubercle. Its heel is peculiar 

 in the great elevation, and submedian position of one of its bor- 

 ders, approaching Temnocyon in this respect. The other edge is, 

 however, distinct, thus forming an unsymmetrical basin. The first 

 inferior tubercular is small, one-rooted, and the crown is subround, 

 and with a single median tubercle. In the other usual species of 

 Canis, Vulpes, and of many other genera of the family, this tooth 

 is elongate, two-rooted, and supports at least two tubercles. 



The general form of the crania resembles those of some of the 

 terriers. The brain-case is full and convex, the orbits are lateral, 

 and the muzzle is moderately elongate and narrowed. The osseous 

 surfaces are generally smooth, and there is no indication of the 

 ridge bounding the temporal fossa above. There is a deep sinus 

 of the superior border of the foramen magnum, a character above 

 noted as occurring in a subspecies included under Canis famili- 

 aris. 



I have been unable to ascertain whether the species now de- 

 scribed is one of the forms which have been referred to Canis 

 familiaris under a subspecific name. One of the specimens was 

 presented to the Academy many years ago by Dr. Paul Goddard, 

 under the name of lap-dog. The form of the head shows that it 

 is not one of the forms of Canis extrarius hispanicus (of Fitz- 

 inger's Work on Dogs), which are represented by the King Charles 

 Spaniel, and other lap-dogs. As I can find nothing concerning it 

 in the books I give it a provisional specific name. 



The origin of the characters of this genus is doubtless to be 

 traced to prehistoric time, if not to an early tertiary geologic age. 

 Perhaps some of the species' characters are of later origin ; such 

 as the obliteration of the superior border ridges of the temporal 

 fossae, and the large sinus of the foramen magnum. These cha- 

 racters, seen in a lesser degree in a domesticated true Canis, as 

 above mentioned, are evidently an adaptation to an enlarged brain ; 

 the one to the increased cerebral hemispheres, the other to the 

 protuberant vermis of the cerebellum. Whether these characters 

 are due to a prolonged domestication, and abnormal nutrition 

 within human habitations, remains to be ascertained. ' I remark 

 here that two crania of dogs found mummied in Egypt by Mr. 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1819. 



Gliddon, and now in the Museum of the Academy, present all the 

 normal details of structure of Cants familiaris. 



The reduction in the number of teeth has been carried further, 

 and is probably of more modern origin in the new genus to be 

 described below. 



Dysodus, gen. nov. 



The characters of this genus, already indicated in the analytical 

 table, are as follows: I. f ; C. \\ P. m. ; M. f ; inferior sectorial 

 without internal tubercle. The incisive formula might with pro- 

 priety read , since these teeth are shed at an early age ; and for 

 the same reason the tuberculars might be stated {, since the last 

 one of the upper jaw is equally evanescent. I, however, give the 

 genus the benefit of the possible future discovery of species in 

 which the teeth in question may not be so early caducous, and 

 rely on the restricted diagnosis. It is thus apparent that the 

 genus Dysodus is distinguished from Synagodus by the absence 

 of two premolars from each jaw. While the genera agree in other 

 respects, their typical species are very different. 



This genus probably diverged from that now represented by 

 Synagodus, at a comparatively late period. Although it exhibits 

 a degree of dental reduction greater than that form, I admit that 

 the possibility of its having come off from Canis rather than from 

 Synagodus is worth} 7 of consideration. This is suggested by the 

 fact that the remaining (first) tubercular molar of the inferior 

 series is, in D. pravus, more like that of the species of Canis in 

 all respects, among others, in having two roots. 



In D. pravus the superior third premolar is sometimes shed, 

 like the incisors, having the formula, I. ; C. } ; Pm. J; M. h. I 

 have excluded this character from the generic diagnosis, as in the 

 case of the incisor and superior tubercular teeth, because they are at 

 the present time unstable; that is, the parts in question are in pro- 

 cess of metamorphosis. When characters are thus variable, they 

 cannot be used as the bases of natural divisions, but when they 

 are stable, we are compelled to recognize them. The characters 

 which I have included in the diagnoses of Synagodus and Dysodus 

 I have thought to be of this character, and I am by no means sure 

 that the absence of the superior incisor teeth should not be placed 

 in the same cateo;orv. But none of these characters, whether 

 stable or unstable, can be regarded as monstrosities, such as mul- 

 tiplied digits, fissured palate, etc. They are, on the contraiy, in 




1870.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



the direct line of numerical succession of parts already repre- 

 sented by the genera of Ganidse, and of all digitigrade Carnivora. 

 This, as already stated, consists in the reduction in the number of 

 the teeth and their tubercles, forming a series which, commencing 

 with the generalized extinct type Amphicyon, approaches more 

 and more nearly to the Felidse. In the inferior sectorial, the 

 genus Bysodus approaches nearest of all Ganidse to some of the 

 earliest genera of cats, as Nojylophoneus (although easily distin- 

 guishable), while in the reduction of its premolars it approaches 

 the modern forms of that family. In the early shedding of the 

 incisors it reaches a condition not found in any carnivora, but one 

 which marks the extreme of development of the ungulate mammals 

 in various lines; e. g., Buminantia, Omnivora, and Amblypoda. 



Dysodus pravus, sp. nov. 



This species, which is known as the Japanese sleeve dog, is re- 

 presented in the Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences by a 

 complete skeleton, with the crania of two other individuals. These 

 all belong to adult animals of a single litter, which were born in 

 the United States. The parents of these clogs were procured in 

 Japan by Dr. W. S. TV. Ruschenberger, U. S. N., now President 

 of the Academy. Other specimens have been brought to the 

 United States by officers of the navy. Dr. J. E. Gray figures a 

 skull of the same dog in the Proceedings of the Zoological Society 

 of London for 1867. 



The crania in the Academy's collection are almost exactly alike, 

 and resemble the one figured by Dr. Gray so far as can be discov- 

 ered. But Dr. Gray's specimen was probably young, as the inci- 

 sor teeth and a premolar in each jaw have not yet been shed, and 

 there are some cranial fontanelles still remaining. 



The characters displayed by the skulls are as follows: The muz- 

 zle is excessively abbreviated, and the forehead very convex. The 

 brain-case is almost globular, and the zygomata proportionably 

 prominent. The superior marginal ridge of the temporal fossa is 

 prominent, and those of opposite sides are well separated as far 

 as the posterior parietal region. Here the}' approach each other 

 abruptly, forming a wide sagittal crest. The muscular insertions 

 and other osseous ridges of the supra, ex- and basi-occipital re- 

 gions are strongly marked. The postorbital process is prominent 

 and decurved. The vertical sinus of the superior border of the 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



foramen magnum is deeply excavated. The external surface of 

 the brain case and of the zygomata is minutety rugose. 



There are no lobes of the posterior border of the anterior supe- 

 rior premolars, while they are present on the two inferior premolars. 

 The superior sectoi'ial is normal, while the first superior tubercu- 

 lar is like that of Synagodus mansuetus, without distinct median 

 crest or tubercle. The heel of the inferior sectorial is also like 

 that of the species just mentioned; one border is much more ele- 

 vated than the other, and forms a cutting edge. The inferior 

 tubercular is small, is longitudinally oval, and supports two low 

 tubercles. This is one of the most important points of difference 

 between this species and the S. mansuetus. In none of the speci- 

 mens is there any trace of the second tubercular. 



The skeleton is that of a dog of the size of a rather small black- 

 and-tan terrier. 



Dr. Ruschenberger states that the incisor teeth of the dogs 

 were shed at an age of about six months. He also informs me 

 that they did not breed after coming to this country. Dr. Gray 

 states that these dogs are fed largely on vegetable food in Japan, 

 and have an artificial existence in various respects. They are, 

 according to Dr. Ruschenberger, uncommon and expensive in 

 Japan. 



I have been unable to discover that any name whether varietal 

 or specific has been given to this dog. 



Icticyon, Lund. 



One existing and one extinct species have been found in Brazil; 

 the latter in the caves. I describe a species from Oregon which I 

 cannot separate from them generically. 



Icticyon crassivultus, sp. nov. 



This dog is so far represented by a skull, which, while it lacks 

 the parietal and occipital regions, is otherwise nearly complete, 

 having both mandibular rami. The dental formula is, I. ; C. \; 

 Pm. | ; M. ^. The single superior tubercular molar is similar in 

 general to that of other Ganidce. The inferior sectorial has an 

 internal cusp, and posterior heel, the latter with a low cutting 

 edge on one side. Inferior tubercular well developed. 



The dental formula of this animal is that of Icticyon, Lund, of 

 which a species has been found in the cave deposit of Brazil, and 

 another still lives in that region. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF- PHILADELPHIA. 191 



Char, specif. The snout is short and robust, and the profile from 

 the parietal region is straight and descending. The premaxillary 

 border projects but little beyond the line of the extremity of the 

 nasal bones. The muzzle is slightly contracted in front of the 

 orbit and above the fundus of the canine alveoli. The latter cause a 

 swelling on the side. The infraorbital region is somewhat cracked, 

 but appears to have been nearly flat medially; laterally it de- 

 scends steeply to the supraorbital border. The orbit is not large, 

 and the zygomatic fossa is short. The nasal bones are narrowed 

 posteriorly, a little contracted medially, and expanded anteriorly, 

 their lateral portions being produced along the pre-maxillaries. 

 Their combined nasal border is concave, and is without the notches 

 of some forms. The foramen infraorbitale exterius is of medium 

 size, and issues above the interval between the sectorial tooth and 

 the one in advance of it. The mandibular ramus is quite robust, 

 and its inferior border is gently convex. The masseteric fossa is 

 bounded by elevated borders, especially inferiorly, and the angu- 

 lar hook is prominent and robust. The condyle is situated on the 

 horizontal line of the tubercular molar, or a little above the others, 

 and has a wide transverse extent, chiefly inwards. The coronoid 

 process is high and wide, and is turned backwards so as to verti- 

 cally overhang the condyle. Its anterior border is wide below, and 

 becomes horizontal above. 



The teeth partake of the robust character of the skull, with the 

 exception of the incisors. Of these the crowns of the external 

 are long and narrow, and the median small in the premaxillaries, 

 while those of the lower jaw are all small. The canines in both 

 jaws are quite robust, and those of the lower jaw are rather ab- 

 ruptly recurved. The first premolar is small, and has a simple 

 crown and single root. The crowns of the other premolars are wide 

 at the base, and form each a simple cone, with a short posterior 

 basal heel. The upper sectorial is relatively not long, but is robust, 

 and with thick blades. The internal heel is well developed, as in 

 Canis, while a cingulum represents an anterior lobe. The tuber- 

 cular molar is narrower in fore and aft diameter than in Temnocxjon 

 coryphaeus or Canis latrans, although it presents the same de- 

 tails. These are a wide obtuse external cingulum ; two external 

 tubercles; a median obtuse tubercle, and a wide internal cin- 

 gulum. The premolars of the lower jaw are similar to those of 

 the maxillary bone. The inferior sectorial is quite robust, and 




192 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1879. 



the internal cusp.is well developed. The heel is shorter than the 

 blades of the crown, and is wide and without tubercles in its some- 

 what worn condition. Its external border rises to an edge. The 

 tubercular is wider than the corresponding tooth in the cotempo- 

 rary species of Canidse, although not so wide as long. Its crown 

 rises in two low tubercles which stand transversely near the middle. 



Measurements. 

 Length of skull to orbit (axial) 

 Depth of skull to orbit (axial) 

 Interobital width .... 

 Width of nares 



Length of superior molar series 

 Length of bases of three premolars 

 Length of base of sectorial 

 Width of sectorial in front 

 Width of first tubercular anteroposterior 

 Width of first tubercular transverse 

 Length of mandible to angle . 

 Elevation at coronoid 

 Elevation at sectorial 

 Length of inferior molar series 

 Length of inferior sectorial 

 Length of heel of inferior sectorial 

 Length of inferior tubercular . 

 Width of inferior tubercular . 



M. 

 .049 

 .042 

 .040 

 .017 

 .038 

 .019 

 .013 

 .009 

 .006 

 .014 

 .093 

 .051 

 .020 

 .045 

 .014 

 .003 

 .006 

 .005 



Tan der Heaven has given 1 descriptions and figures of the 

 skull and dentition of the Icticyon venaticus of Lund, of Brazil. 

 From these it appears that the present species differs from the 

 latter in the greater development of the inner part of the tuber- 

 cular molar of the superior series; in I. venaticus this part is 

 much reduced. The tubercular molar of the lower jaw is also 

 much smaller in the living species, the angular and coronoid pro- 

 cesses less developed, and the condyle less extended transversely. 

 The cranium of the I. crassivultus is much more robust, but not 

 much longer than that of I. venaticus. 



Discovered by J. L. Wortman in the Truckee beds of the White 

 River, Tertiary of the John Day River region of Oregon. 



1 Over het Geslacht Icticyon ; wis. en natuurk. Verb, der Koninkl. 

 Akademie, Amsterdam, Deel. III. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 193 



General Observations. 



In both Canidse and Felidse the reduction of the dental series 

 is connected with a contraction of the facial part of the skull, 

 either posteriorly or anteriorly. Enhydrocyon is an example of 

 anterior abbreviation, and Icticyon of posterior contraction among 

 Canidse, while Smilodon and Lynx exhibit the anterior reduction 

 in Felidse. I have already pointed out that this reduction is ac- 

 companied by a corresponding increase in the size of the sectorial 

 teeth. But the reduction in the number of teeth in geologic time 

 has not been confined to the Carnivora, but belongs to the Ungu- 

 lates and Primates as well. The small number of teeth is gene- 

 rally associated with high specialization among Mammalia gene- 

 rally. The genera Synagodus and Dysodus are the most special- 

 ized of the Canidse. 



I may here refer to the frequently observed reduced dentition 

 of man. Darwin first pointed out the significance of the absence 

 of the third molars from the standpoint of evolution, citing Ame- 

 rican cases ; and I have observed the similar bearing of the ab- 

 sence of the external superior incisors. 1 These reductions are 

 very frequent in the United States, and probably elsewhere among 

 civilized nations, but statistics on this point are yet wanting. My 

 friend Dr. C. N. Pierce, an experienced and scientific dentist of 

 this city, informs me that he knows of twent} f -eight families in 

 which the external superior incisors are absent; to these, four 

 families may be added, which have fallen under my own observa- 

 tion : that the absence of one or both pairs of the third molars 

 is still more common, is confirmed by Dr. Pierce's experience. 



It is evident that we have characters which, if stable, would 

 indicate two or three genera of Hominidse additional to Homo. 

 They are unstable at present; that is, they are not yet invariably 

 found in any race or species of man, or, in other words, are not so 

 associated with other physical characters as to form a correlated 

 index of them. But experience in paleontology and zoology renders 

 it almost certain that these dental characters will at some future 

 time assume this degree of importance by becoming stable. This 

 is already indicated by the fact of their being constant in families 

 at the present time. As to what races will be thus distinguished 



1 Proceedings American Philosophical Society, 1871, p. 234. 




194 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP " [1879. 



genericalby, it is not easy to indicate, but all those with prognathous 

 crania may be safely excluded. It is improbable that Mongolian 

 races will earl} 7 participate in such a modification, as the}' have a 

 tendency to prognathism, and a generally strong dental develop- 

 ment. 



Since the reduction in the number of teeth is intimately connected 

 with orthognathism, it is easy to suppose that it is primarily due to 

 the diminished space allowed by the contracted maxillary arcade. 

 This contraction is doubtless due to a deficiency of building mate- 

 rial, consequent on a transfer of force to some other part of the 

 structure during the period of growth. This transfer may be to 

 the superior parts of the cranium, which is extended to contain an 

 enlarged brain. As the loss of a tooth from each side has so far 

 been sufficient to accommodate the dentition to the space which 

 it is to occupy, it is not likely that the absence of both I. 2, and 

 M. III. will become established. The reduction in the inferior 

 series is less, and I do not know of any examples of the absence 

 of the external incisors of the lower jaw. The loss of the third 

 inferior molars is, on the other hand, very common. It then may 

 be reasonably maintained that two genera of Hominidse will be at 

 some future day added to Homo; that the latter will include the 

 inferior races of men, and the future the superior; that, although 

 in specific characters there may be a want of greater constancy in 

 the species of the new genera as compared with each other than 

 as compared with the primitive and true Homo, they will pre- 

 sent cases of what is elsewhere known in zoology, that the 

 same or nearly the same specific characters may be found in dif- 

 ferent genera. Under such circumstances the form referred to a 

 new genus becomes at the same time distinct species. The genera 

 of Hominidae will then, if the characters become constant, be as 

 follows: 



I. |; C. |; Pm. ; M. ; Homo. 



I. ; C. {; Pm. ; M. ; Metanthropos. 



I. f ; C. i; Pm. ; M. ; Epanthropos. 




1879.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 195 



July 15. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Fourteen persons present. 

 The death of J. B. McCreary, a member, was announced. 



July 22. 

 Dr. Joseph Leidy in the chair. 

 Sixteen persons present. 



Explosion of a Diamond. Prof. Leidy exhibited a black agate 

 sleeve button, having mounted upon it, centrally in a raised gold 

 band, a rose diamond about 7 mm. broad. It had been submitted 

 to him by Mr. Ernst Kretzmar, jeweller, who informed him that 

 the person who wore it recently was leaning with his head upon 

 his hand, on a window ledge in the sun, when the diamond ex- 

 ploded audibly, and with sufficient force to drive a fragment into 

 his hand, and another into his forehead. On examining the dia- 

 mond, the fractured surface, following a cleavage plane, exhibits 

 apparently the remains of a thin cavity, such as is sometimes seen 

 in quartz crj'stals. The fracture also exposes a conspicuous par- 

 ticle of coal. Prof. Leid} T thought that the explosion had been 

 due to the sudden expansion of a volatile liquid contained in the 

 cavit} 7 , as frequently occurs in cavities in many minerals. 



Mr. Goldsmith thought that the liquid might be carbonic acid, 

 as he was impressed with the idea that diamonds originated from 

 this material in the liquid condition. 



July 29. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-four persons present. 



The deaths of Francis Garden Smyth, M.D., a member, and 

 Prof. Edouard Spach, a correspondent, were announced. 



Remarks on Orgyia Prof. Leidy remarked that Orgyialeucos- 

 tigma, which now seriously infested the shade trees of our city, 

 especially the horse-chestnuts and silver-maples, had recently 

 passed into the moth stage. The trunks of the trees, and the 

 surrounding railing of the square opposite to the Academy ex- 




19G PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1819. 



hibit a profusion of cocoons. In seeking for specimens of the 

 male moth, he had collected only three, in a walk along one side 

 of the square, from the railing, where hundreds of the wingless 

 females were to be obtained, as they rested with their foamy white 

 masses of eggs on their cocoons. From the fewness of the males 

 he was led to suspect that the females might, perhaps, in many 

 instances, deposit the eggs in an nnfecundated condition. To 

 ascertain if this were so, he collected several dozen cocoons with 

 pupae of females, distinguished by their comparatively robust 

 character, and placed them in a covered box in his study in the 

 third story of a back building, separated from the nearest place 

 where there were other cocoons by the front building and the 

 width of the street in front of his house. As the females came 

 out of the cocoons, distended with eggs, these, with the exception 

 of a few which appeared to be accidentally dropped in several in- 

 dividuals, were retained. After some days, as none of the females 

 laid their eggs, the box was uncovered, and on the second morning 

 subsequently, several individuals had deposited masses of eggs, 

 though no males were present in the box. However, on examin- 

 ing the vicinity, four male moths were detected on the outside of 

 the curtain of the window in which the box had been placed, from 

 which it was supposed that the females had been visited by males 

 attracted during the night from the neighborhood. 



The case related reminded him that some years ago a collector 

 of butterflies in the suburbs, informed him that he frequently ob- 

 tained male specimens of the Cecropiaand Luna moths by pinning 

 females to the side of the window, when, in the morning after, he 

 would almost certainly find males in conjunction with them. The 

 means by which the males thus find their mates at night and in 

 out-of-the-wajr places were not obvious, as the insects appear to 

 be incapable of producing sounds or scents that are appreciable 

 to our senses. 



J. M. Taylor was elected a member. 



Gustav Mayr, of Vienna, and C. Emery, of Palermo, were 

 elected correspondents. 



August 5. 

 The President, Dr. Rusciienberger, in the chair. 

 Sixteen persons present. 



August 12. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Eighteen persons present. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



August 19. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twentj'-three persons present. 



August 29. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair, 

 Fourteen persons present. 



September 2. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty persons present. 



September 5. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirty-eight persons present. 



A paper entitled "Description of a New Branchipod," by 

 John A. Ryder, was presented for publication. 



On Myrmecocystus Mexicanus, Wesm. Rev. H. C. McCook 

 exhibited several glass formicaries containing a large number of 

 living specimens of the honey ant, Myrmecocystus Mexicanus, 

 Wesmael. These embraced three worker castes, major, minor, and 

 dwarf, the honey-hearer, and the fertile queen. The artificial nests 

 had been brought from the Garden of the Gods, Colorado, where 

 the honey-ant had been discovered by Mr. McCook. They had 

 previously been supposed to be confined to a more southern lati- 

 tude. The nests are found on the tops or southern slopes of 

 ridges. In exterior architecture they are small gravel-covered 

 moundlets, truncated cones, pierced in the centre by a gate, or 

 perpendicular opening from three to six inches deep. The interior 

 architecture was illustrated by numerous specimens brought from 

 excavated nests. It consists of a series of underground galleries 

 and chambers, cut through the gravel and sandstone to the dis- 

 tance of nearly eight feet in length, two to four feet beneath the 

 surface, and about ten to twelve inches in width at the widest part. 

 The honey-bearers were found hanging in groups to the roofs of 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879- 



the honey chambers by their feet; their large globular abdomens 

 looking like bunches of small Delaware grapes. About eight to 

 ten chambers, containing each an average of about thirty honey- 

 bearers, were found. The workers cared for the honey-bearers 

 when the chambers were opened, and dragged them into the un- 

 opened parts. 



The ants proved to be nocturnal in their habits, remaining 

 within doors until after sunset, about 7.30 P. M., each evening, 

 when the workers issued forth in column, and dispersed among 

 the clumps of scrub oak, Quercus undulata. Here they sought 

 the galls made by a species of Cynips, which grows abundantly on 

 the bushes, and licked therefrom a sweet exudation which issued 

 in small transparent beads from the surface. From 11.30 P.M. 

 to about 3.30 A. M., when the first streakings of dawn began to 

 appear, the workers returned home laden with the honey. This 

 appears to be fed to the sedentary honey-bearers by disgorging it 

 in the usual way, and remains within the globular abdomens as a 

 store for future use. The economy of this habit appears to re- 

 semble that of the bee ; the exception being that the bee's honey 

 is stored within the inorganic substance of a waxen cell, while the 

 ant's is lodged within the organic tissue of the living insect. 



The above is a brief abstract of observations presented in detail, 

 together with others not here referred to, which will appear in full 

 in subsequent reports of the Academy's Proceedings. 



Notices of some Animals on the Coast of New Jersey. Prof. 

 Leidy exhibited a valve of the beach-clam, Mactra solidissima, 

 which he picked up among the numerous dead and bleaching shells 

 of Brigantine Beach, N. J. It attracted his attention from its 

 apparently having a fungus growing upon it. The fungus-like 

 excrescence presented a remarkable resemblance to a Polyporus 

 growing from the stem of a tree. It is an outgrowth from the lip 

 of the shell, evidently dependent on an abnormal condition of the 

 mantle of the living animal. 



Prof. Leidy also stated that he had picked up on the beach at 

 Atlantic City, N. J., another valve of the beach-clam, which had 

 been recently cast on shore. The inner surface of the shell was 

 covered with a multitude of the beautiful ciliated infusorian, Freia 

 ampulla. The little creatures were still alive, and their curved, 

 flask-like cases were of a deep green color. 



Prof. Leidy further remarked that while at Atlantic City, Mr. 

 Philips had directed his attention to two interesting animals, re- 

 cently collected. One of these he recognized as the Bicidium 

 parasiticum, a parasitic anemone or Actinia, found on the large 

 jelly fish, Cyanea arctica, so frequentl}* thrown on shore. The 

 other was a parasite of the shrimp, Palsemoneles vulgaris, which 

 he recognized as the curious Isopod, Bopyrus. Many of the 

 shrimps were infested with the parasite, the presence of which 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



produced a conspicuous hemispherical tumor on one side of the 

 carapace. 



September 16. 

 The president, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair, 

 Twenty-two persons present. 

 The following was ordered to be printed : 




200 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1879. 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW BRANCHIPOD. 



BY JOHN A. RYDER. 



Upon examining a pair of Branchipods which were kindly 

 handed me by Mr. D. S. Holman, and which had been collected 

 near Woodbury, N. J., I find them to be a form hitherto unde- 

 scribed. I accordingly propose a name for the species. 



Streptocephalus sealii, nov. sp. 



In form and size this species resembles S. lorvicoriiis, Waga, 

 but the third joint of the second antenna differs from that species 

 in the details of its structure, and the ovigerous sacs of the fe- 

 males are not blue as in Waga's animal. The inner branch of the 

 terminal joint of the male claspers is the shortest instead of the 

 longest, as in S. torvicornis ; at the interior anterior margin of. the 

 short branch, there are two unequal lobes, extending forwards 

 and lying flat against the laminar posterior border of the anterior 

 branch ; at the lower posterior angle of this lamina, or blade of the 

 forward branch, there is a well-marked, somewhat falcate process, 

 which fits between the lower lobular process of the posterior 

 branch and its scythe-shaped lower extremity. The anterior 

 branch then crosses the posterior at nearly right angles, and for 

 about a third of its length maintains a pretty uniform thickness, 



and is straight, when it suddenlj' swells 

 and bends forwards, and as suddenly con- 

 tracts, and tapers for its remaining two- 

 thirds, ending in a slender, slightly-curved, 

 pointed extremity. The first joint is long 

 and robust, and from its apex external^, 

 the cylindrical, curved, antenniform organ 

 arises, which is about as long as the fili- 

 form first antennas. The second joint is 

 very tortuous, and is strongly bent and 

 twisted upon itself. The third joint, which 

 bears the complex terminal appendages, is 

 wide; the appendages close against each 

 other like the blades of a scissors, whilst 

 the processes of their opposing margins interlock as has been 

 already described, and as can be fully understood bj r reference to 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 201 



the accompanying cut of the head of the male. The front of ihe 

 head is prolonged into a straight beak, which hangs down nearly 

 vertically between the first joints of the claspers, and is flattened 

 antero-posteriorly, and emarginate at its tip. The antenniform 

 appendage is much longer than in S. texanus, Packard, whilst the 

 terminal branches of the claspers are widely different from those 

 of that species in their shape and relative proportions. The male 

 organs are very feebly armed with a few short spines, and are 

 nearly straight. 



The cephalic horns of the female are twisted upon themselves, 

 slightly bent and flattened at their extremities, which are fringed 

 with short hairs. The large lateral, ovoid, pedunculate, apparently 

 glandular organs behind the eyes, are the same in size and shape 

 in both sexes. The ovigerous sacs are large, nearly half as long 

 as the abdomen, conical in form, and contain a great number of 

 ochraceous eo;2;s, more numerous and much smaller than those of 

 Chirocephalus holmanii from the same locality. The male is of a 

 beautiful green, deeper about the head, as though saturated with 

 acetate of copper; the female, on the other hand, is yellow with a 

 tinge of green, verging to brownish in parts, and is very nearly 

 of the same size as the male, if not a little larger. This similarity 

 in the size of the sexes, with a tendency in the females to be 

 largest, is observed only in S. torvicornis, as far as I am aware. 

 The two rather long, plumose, tapering branches of the tail are 

 red in both sexes, but of a much brighter red in the female ; more 

 slender in the male. Length 2*7 mm. 



I name the species for Mr. W. P. Seal, who collected the first 

 t} T pical specimens ; the same gentleman has since furnished me 

 with an additional supply of examples. 



The known species of this genus are accordingly as follows : 



Streptocephalus torvicornis, Waga, % 1 inch, 9 about 14 lin., 

 Warsaw, Poland. 



S. cafe?*, Loven, 15 mm. long, Cape of Good Hope. 



S. similis, Baird, % 8 lin., 9 6 lin. long, St. Domingo. 



S. texaiius, Packard, % .65 in., 9 .55 in. long, Texas. 



8. watsonii, Packard, 1G mm., 9 12-18 mm., Ellis, Kansas. 



S. sealii, Ryder, 27 mm. long, New Jerse}'. 



All of the species are found in fresh water. 



The distribution of the species of the foregoing genus, and the 

 resemblance existing in some features between the Polish and New 

 14 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



Jersey species is very remarkable. Why such a resemblance 

 should exist between two fresh-water crustaceans separated from 

 each other by a salt ocean 3000 miles wide, and nearly a thousand 

 miles of land besides, is a problem yet to be solved by chorologists 

 and biologists. Indeed, the distribution of both branchipods and 

 phyllopods in general, is not a little singular, and all those who 

 have the opportunity of acquiring any data in regard to the sub- 

 ject should be careful to put them on record. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



Sept. 23. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair, 

 Thirty-five persons present. 



Sept. 30. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirtj'-two persons present. 



The death of Edward Peace, M.D., a member, was announced. 



On Grifitatella Mae. Prof. Leidy remarked that a few days ago, 

 while rambling in the Park with his little daughter, she had called 

 his attention to what she supposed to be numerous caterpillars at 

 the bottom of a brook. On examination they proved to be an ex- 

 traordinary accumulation of Cristatella Mae. This species of poly- 

 zoon, or fresh-water ciliated polyp, he had discovered at Newport, 

 R. I., upwards of twenty years ago, and described in the Pro- 

 ceedings of this Academy (1858-59). He had repeatedly sought 

 for it in the vicinity of Philadelphia, but had never found it until 

 now. 



The development of the Cristatella in the locality indicated is 

 most remarkable and wonderful for its extent. Thousands of 

 vermicular groups spread over the bottom of the brook for about 

 twenty feet of length and a yard diminishing to a foot in breadth. 

 They invest all the submerged stones and plants, and are so closely 

 crowded as to intertwine with one another, leaving only narrow 

 intervals, without room for movement except by mutual displace- 

 ment. The groups are all attached to a common basal membrane, 

 from which, however, they are capable of separating themselves. 

 A large patch of the membrane covered with groups of the Cris- 

 tatella was raised and placed in a dish of water, and after a couple 

 of days most of the groups glided away from the membrane to 

 the bottom and sides of the dish. The basal membrane is amber 

 colored, homogeneous, and obscurely granular. A patch of it, 

 four inches long b}^ two and a half inches wide, closely covered 

 with groups of the polyp, preserved in alcohol, was presented as 

 a specimen for the museum. 



Jt would appear that in the development and growth of the 

 Cristatella groups, they from time to time break up into smaller 

 groups, and retain their connection only through the basal mem- 

 brane, which seems to be of an excrementitious character 



The basal membrane of the Cristatella was further interesting 

 from the circumstance that in the intervals of the groups of polyps 

 it harbored multitudes of Difflugia corona. 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



At this season the Cristatella groups are full of statoblasts or 

 winter eggs, in all stages of development. The mature stato- 

 blasts, including the annulus, but excluding the marginal anchor 

 spines, measure from 1.15 mm. to 1.225 mm. in breadth. Of fifteen 

 specimens, seven measured 1.2 mm. in breadth. The number of 

 anchor spines usually ranges from 60 to 70 ; but in a few speci- 

 mens as low as 53 and as high as 74 were counted. Both in size 

 and the number of spines they considerably exceed those of Cris- 

 tatella mucedo and C. ophidoidea. 



The individual polyps of Cristatella Idae when fully extended 

 are about 3 mm. in length, and their arms support about 80 

 tentacles. The stomach is chocolate brown; sometimes lighter 

 yellowish or greenish-brown. 



The same locality was further remarkable for its profusion of 

 other animals, especially for the abundance of flesh-colored Hydras, 

 and the groups of Vorticellas. Tufts of Anacharis were white 

 from the latter. 



Lieut. C. A. H. McAuley, U.S. A., was elected a correspondent. 



October 7. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty persons present. 



On Amoeba Blaltse Prof. Leidy remarked that while perusing 



the communication of Prof. Biitschli on "Flagellata and other 

 related Organisms" (Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Flagellaten und 

 einiger verwandten Organismen), in the Zeitschrift fur wissen- 

 schaftliche Zoologie, 1878, 205, his attention was especially at- 

 tracted by the description of a parasitic amoeboid living in the in- 

 testine of the cockroach, Blatta orientalis. It recalled to mind 

 that he had observed the same creature a number of years ago, 

 in association with the ciliated infusorian he had described as 

 Nyctotherus ovalis. At that time he had viewed it as a young 

 form of a Gregarina, and had intended giving it and other para- 

 sites of the cockroach more critical examination, but failed to do 

 so. The parasitic amoeboid, which Prof. Biitschli describes under 

 the name of Amoeba Blaltse is particularly interesting on account 

 of its habit and its somewhat peculiar character. Prof. L. had 

 recentty examined some cockroaches, and found abundance of the 

 amoeboid in association witli Nyctotherus ovalis, Lojihomonas blat- 

 tarum, Oxyurus gracilis, and 0. appendiculatus, and an algoid 

 plant. 



The amoeboid he thought was worthy of a generic distinction 

 from the true Amoeba holding a position between this and Prota- 

 moeba. Prom the former it differed in the absence of a contractile 

 vesicle and commonly also of vacuoles, and in the want of diner- 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



entiation of endosarc and ectosarc ; and from the latter in the 

 possession of a well-defined nucleus. He proposed for it the fol- 

 lowing name with distinctive characters : 



Endamceba. 



General character and habit of Amoeba ; composed of colorless, 

 homogeneous, granular protoplasm, in the ordinary normal active 

 condition without distinction of ectosarc and endosarc ; with a 

 distinct nucleated nucleus, but ordinarily with neither contractile 

 vesicle nor vacuoles. 



Endamceba blatt^e. 



Eine art Proteus. Seibokl : Beitr. z. Naturges, d. wirb. Thiere, 



1839, Jide Stein. 

 Ambbenform. Stein : Organismus d. Infusionstheire, 1867, II., 345. 

 Amoeba Blattce. Butschli: Zeits. f. wis. Zoologie, 1878, xxx. 273, 



Taf. xv., Fig. 26. 



Initial form globular passing into spheroidal, oval, or variously 

 lobate forms, mostly clavate and moving with the broader pole in 

 advance. Protoplasm finely granular, and when in motion more 

 or less distinctly striate. Nucleus spherical, granular, with a large 

 nucleolus. Distinct food particles commonly few or none. Size 

 of globular forms 0.054 mm. to 0.075 mm. in diameter; elongated 

 forms 0.075 mm. by 0.06 mm. to 0.15 mm. by 0.09 mm. Parasitic 

 in the large intestine of Blatta orientalis. 



The Endamceba blattee affords a good example of a primitive, 

 active nucleated organic corpuscle, or a so-called organic cell with- 

 out a cell wall. In the encysted condition it would be a complete 

 nucleated organic cell. Endamceba may be recommended as a 

 convenient illustration of a primitive form of the organic cell on 

 account of its comparatively ready access. 



October 14. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirty-two persons present. 



On the Supposed Sensitive Character of the Glands of the As- 

 clepiadaceee. Mr. E. Potts, referring to a communication made 

 a year ago to the Academy and published in its Proceedings for 

 1878, p. 283, with regard to the supposed discovery of a sensi- 

 tive contractile power analogous to that of Dionea, in the stig- 

 matic glands of the Asclepiadacere, said that during the past 

 summer he had given many hours to a careful examination of the 

 subject, resulting in an entire failure to confirm his former posi- 

 tion. This examination had embraced at least five species of the 

 typical genus Asclepias, and single species of each of the allied 

 genera, Araujia, Physianthus, Hoya, Gonolobus, and Stap)elia. 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18T9. 



The phenomena which, last year, were regarded as showing 

 great probability, if not convincing proof, of the contractile power 

 referred to, were: the grasping of a slender hair by said glands 

 with sufficient force to allow of the withdrawal of the pollen- 

 masses ; and a coincident change in the appearance of the jaws 

 or lips of the same glands. The facts are undoubtedly as stated; 

 but the circumstances attending; the change had been imperfectly 

 noted or their significance misinterpreted. The lips of the glands 

 in their primary, undisturbed position, which had been thought 

 to be separated by a sensible distance, allowing of the insertion 

 of the foot or proboscis of an insect were now seen to be thick- 

 ened and chamferred off along the upper edge, leaving a wedge- 

 shaped groove, but still touching one another at the lower surface. 

 No accidental or intended intrusion would therefore be successful 

 in reaching the inner surface of the cylindrical gland ; and by very 

 many experiments it was amply proven that no amount of touch- 

 ing or pressure upon the edges of this groove was followed by any 

 change of position. 



He then explained how the removal of these glands and their 

 associated pollinia was effected by insect agency, calling attention 

 to the narrow passage left between the rigid proximate edges of 

 the adjacent anthers; showing that it was widest at their lower 

 extremity, and quickly narrowing, led up into, and was continu- 

 ous or coincident with the before-named groove through the gland ; 

 so that the foot of fly or bee inserted below while the insect was 

 crawling over the flower, was almost necessarily drawn along it 

 until it reached and entered the gland. The very delicate attach- 

 ment of the latter to the stigma was then easily ruptured, and the 

 insect escaped, carrying glands and pollinia with it. Experiment 

 showed that it was only when the Hands were so far removed from 

 their proper position that the caudicles or arms connecting them 

 with the pollen masses were relieved from the restraint in which 

 they had been held on the curved surface of the stigma that their 

 lips complete^ closed upon the intended substance, giving them 

 the changed appearance formerly misunderstood. 



A comparatively high magnifying power and delicate manipu- 

 lation of the light further showed, just below the meeting edges 

 of the anthers, a series of fine spieula-like hairs inclined upwards, 

 having a tendency to guide into and restrain within the passage 

 any object which had once entered at the widened end. In some 

 species, noticeably in Araujia albens, the nectarial reservoir was 

 shown to be placed immediately below this opened passage, and 

 when the moths which frequent them thrust their proboscis down 

 into the tubular corolla in search of their honeyed food, they are 

 almost certain to be caught, not by the glands primarily, but by 

 these trapdike edges of the anthers. Here, according to many ob- 

 servers, they are held till they die; or, if successful in tearing them- 

 selves away, leave the entangled organ behind them in their flight. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 207 



In this particular species, alone, of those examined, the release of 

 the insect was not effected when it had successfully drawn foot or 

 tongue along the whole length of this anther trap, as the gland 

 which then receives it is firmly attached to the stigma by a broad 

 ligament at its upper end ; and all, excepting possibly the most 

 powerful insects, are still held, while from other species of the 

 family the} 7 Qy off hearing the pollen masses with them. These 

 in turn are caught in similar channels of other flowers, and lodged 

 against the under surface of the stigma, when their pollen tubes 

 are protruded and fertilization effected. 



This, if not necessarily cro.s.s fertilization is, at least, fertiliza- 

 tion by pollen from the same or other flowers placed by an extra- 

 neous force against the stigmatic surfaces; and that the singular 

 arrangement of parts just mentioned, apparently so wonderfully 

 calculated to facilitate it, is made use of, is very evident. In the 

 course of his observations upon a cultivated plant of Asclepias 

 curassavicnm during the season of insect visitation, it was rare 

 to find a mature flower which had not lost some of its glands and 

 pollen masses, and very frequently all were missing. In many of 

 these, the pollinia from other flowers were to be found in the situ- 

 ation before stated ; and it was a very noticeable fact that from 

 50 to 80 per cent, of the flowers in these groups were fertilized, 

 while those from which insects were excluded failed to produce a 

 single fertile follicle. A bee captured upon this plant carried upon 

 its legs and tongue thirty of the glands, representing sixty pollen 

 masses. By far the larger number of the latter had been torn 

 away from the glands since their removal, and possibly were the 

 agents in making fertile nearly the same number of flowers. 



A very singular fact on the opposite side of the account was 

 mentioned by Mr. Meehan in the Botanical Section : that Arau- 

 jio. albeyis rarely fruited when exposed to insects in the open air, 

 but in green-houses produced pods freely. 



On Amber containing Fossil Insects Mr. E. Goldsmith called 



attention to a specimen of amber collected by Mr. Win. L. Maetier 

 at Nantucket Island, Mass., in which were several well-preserved 

 fossil ants, a fly, and probably small species of coleoptera The 

 specimen also contains a dicotyledonous leaf, of a cinnamon brown 

 color, with the edges free, and the impression of another. This 

 was the first specimen of American amber examined by him in 

 which a trace of imbedded insects could be observed, although tins 

 may have been owing to the fact that the others were cretaceous, 

 and therefore, on account of their age, opaque*. 



The amber from Nantucket Island is probably tertiary, and is 

 of a fine pale claret color without being at all variegated. The 

 specimen examined was an irregular mass of about eleven centi- 

 metres in length, somewhat pointed at one end and thicker and 

 rounder at the other, with longitudinal furrows. It is a little 

 heavier than water. The lustre is resinous, but if freshly fractured 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



it is glassy. The form of the fracture is conchoidal and perfectly 

 smooth. Hardness between two and three. The specimen re- 

 sembles in its external aspect fossil copal so much that it may be 

 easily mistaken for that material. The fresh vitreous lustre of the 

 amber, however, remains after repeated rubbing and exposure, 

 while copal becomes dull under such treatment. The amber may 

 be worked with a file or an edge tool into even surfaces ; under 

 like treatment copal crumbles, and gives an uneven glistening 

 plane. When the finger is rubbed to and fro" on the amber it will 

 not powder or become mealy like copal. When a portion of the 

 specimen was gently heated in a glass tube closed on one end a 

 dense gas was obtained having the odor of burning fat. After 

 cooling minute radiating groups of crystals were noticed ; fossil 

 copal gives no such indications. The amber burns with a yellow 

 smoking flame, emitting an odor not so disagreeable as that given 

 off during distillation, and leaves some unconsumed carbon. The 

 powder is white, and, if brought in contact with oil of vitriol, it 

 will readily dissolve, forming a ruby red solution, which, when 

 poured into water, gives a nearly colorless precipitate partially in 

 a crystalline state. It is decomposed by nitric acid, forming at 

 first a soft yellow compound which afterwards dissolves. If the 

 excess of the nitric acid be evaporated and water added, thin plates 

 of a golden-yellow color form. These plates appear to be succinic 

 acid ; the} 7 easily dissolve in caustic ammonia, and the solution 

 affords, with a solution of sesquichloride of iron, the well-known 

 cinnamon-brown precipitate of succinate of iron. Both solutions 

 were perfectly neutral. From the solution of the succinate 

 ammonia the succinic acid can be separated on the addition of 

 nitric acid. This process for observing succinic acid in amber 

 is especially applicable when but a small quantity of the acid is 

 present, in which case the process by sublimation fails or becomes 

 uncertain. Chloroform is a good solvent for amber, but alcohol, 

 ether, and bisulphide of carbon dissolve it only sparingly. Copal 

 when kept in ether swells to a greater volume ; amber does not 

 increase in bulk. 



October 21. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirty-one members present. 



A paper entitled "On some New Eocene Fossils from the Clair- 

 borne Marine Formation of Alabama," by Angelo Heilprin, was 

 presented for publication. 



Ward's Natural Science. Establishment. Prof. Leidy stated 

 that the reputation of Prof. Henry A. Ward's "Natural Science 

 Establishment," at Rochester, N. Y., was such, that lately he had 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 209 



been induced to make it a visit. Though he had seen collections 

 of casts of fossils and skeletons in the museums of colleges and 

 other institutions, from Prof. Ward's establishment, he had not 

 been prepared to find it so extensively representing all depart- 

 ments of natural history as it proved to be, and even in Europe 

 he had seen no dealer's stock that was equal to it. For the variety 

 of its objects, and the excellence of preservation and preparation 

 of the specimens, he recommended it to the Academy and to others 

 as a source from whence to supply the wants and deficiencies of 

 their cabinets. The collection of skeletons is large, and is admi- 

 rable for the cleanness, whiteness, and perfect mounting of the 

 specimens. A few thousand dollars expended in this department 

 would be of much importance to the museum of the Academy. 

 A collection of glass models of invertebrate animals, made by 

 Leopold Blaschka, of Dresden, had especially attracted his atten- 

 tion. The models are remarkable for their accuracy and beauty, 

 and they supply a means of illustration which has long been felt. 

 They represent soft and delicate forms which cannot be satisfac- 

 torily preserved, and others too minute to be examined with the 

 naked eye. Moreover their price is so moderate, that it is to be 

 hoped that the Academy may make early provision to obtain a 

 series. Prof. L. exhibited specimens, such as the Red Coral, 

 Cor allium rubrum, of the natural size and magnified ; the hydroid 

 polyp, Hydr actinia echiiiata, which lives on the shell of the Hermit 

 Crab, etc. Prof. L. added that at the present time when society 

 was awakened to the importance of the study of natural history, 

 Prof. Ward was worthy of the highest commendation for the ability 

 and energy he had displayed in accumulating so ample a means 

 for its illustration. 



October 28. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Forty-nine persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication: 



" Revision of the Palreocrinoidea, Part I., the Families Ichthyo- 

 crinidse and Cyathocrinidae," by Charles Wachsmuth and Frank 

 Springer. 



" A Comparison of the Eocene Mollusca of the Southeastern 

 United States and Western Europe in relation to the determina- 

 tion of identical forms," by Angelo Heilprin. 



The death of William H. Gumbes, a member, was announced. 



Variations in Thuja and Retinospora. Mr. Thomas Meehan 

 referred to his observations reported to the Academy many years 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



ago, showing that the plant known in gardens as Thuja ericoides 

 \v:is but a form of arbor vitse that had carried its juvenescent con- 

 dition through life, instead of changing its character for the " adult" 

 condition after its first three months of existence, as arbor vitaes 

 generally do. Out of a large number of trees of this form that 

 had been growing on his grounds for fifteen years, one had as- 

 sumed the normal adult condition. Since he had first recorded 

 his observations, most of the leading botanists had come to regard 

 these plants as he did, and there seemed no need of further evi- 

 dence ; but this changed plant had now produced fruit for the first 

 time, specimens of which he exhibited. It w T as exactly Thuja oc- 

 cidentalis. These juvenescent forms after fifteen years' growth had 

 shown only this single disposition to assume the final or adult con- 

 dition or to flower. He also exhibited a similar juvenescent form 

 known as Betinospora squarrosa, one plant of which out of some 

 hundreds had developed to Betinospora obtusa. In the case of the 

 arbor vitse the change from the juvenescent to the adult form was 

 gradual ; in Betinospora it was by a single leap. Each condi- 

 tion had its separate color, and separate chemical principles, the 

 latter point having been called to Meehan's observation by Dr. 

 Sterry Hunt j but this was characteristic of all such morphologi- 

 cal changes. There was a difference in the rind of orange and in 

 its pulp, in the flesh of the peach and in its kernel, though all 

 were morphologically the same. It was, however, worth remem- 

 bering that with morphological changes there was often change 

 in cell structure, as well as in sensible properties. Mr. Meehan 

 further called attention to the almost identical characters of the 

 two juvenescent forms exhibited while in the adult they were so 

 widely divided for there were in all Coniferre probably no two 

 genera better marked in the characters derived from their fructifi- 

 cation than Betinospora and Thuja. 



Russell S. Hill was elected a member. 



November 4. 



The President, Dr. Rusohenberger, in the chair. 



Thirty-four persons present. 



A paper entitled "On. the Pacific Species of Caulolatilus," by 

 W. N. Lockington, was presented for publication. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



ON SOME NEW EOCENE FOSSILS FROM THE CLAIBORNE MARINE 

 FORMATION OF ALABAMA.. 



BY ANGELO HEILPRIN. 



The following species of fossils (with the exception of Ros'ellaria 

 Whitfieldi) were picked out from an accumulated mass of Clai- 

 borne sand and shell, deposited in the American Museum of Natural 

 History, New York City, and being of more than ordinary inter- 

 est, as in part pertaining to genera hitherto not recognized as 

 belonging to the formation, I have deemed them worthy of descrip- 

 tion. 



TEINOSTOMA, H. ,V A. Adams. 

 Teinostoma rotula, nob. PI. xiii., fig. 1. 



Shell orbicular, depressed ; polished ; whorls three, body-whorl 

 with an impressed line immediately beloAv the suture; umbilicus 

 small, surrounded by a broad callous area; aperture nearly cir- 

 cular ; inner lip expanded into a callus near the umbilical region. 



Diameter .2 inch. 



Claiborne, Alabama. 



This is the first species of Teinostoma described as such exist- 

 ing in the Eocene formations of the United States. Mr. Lea's 

 Rotella nana (Umbonium, Conrad), also from Claiborne, which I 

 have not had an opportunity to examine, may prove to be a 

 Teinostoma. 



DELPHINULA, Roissy. 

 Delphinula solaro'ides, nob. P. xiii., fig. 2. 



Shell turbinate, depressed, broadly umbilicate; whorls four, 

 channeled below the suture, and ornamented with obtuse ribs 

 radiating from about the centre of the upper surface ; umbilicus 

 with a central unrolling prominent crenulated line, and inter- 

 mediate finer lines ; margin crenulated ; peristome continuous, 

 trumpet shaped. Nacreous. 



Diameter \ inch. 



Claiborne, Ala. 



This species could readily be mistaken for a Solarium, from 

 all species of which, however, it is distinguished by its pearly 

 iridescence. 




212 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [18T9. 



SOLARIUM, Lamarck. 

 Solarium striato-granulatum, nob. PI. xiii., fig. 3. 



Shell conical, depressed ; whorls five, slightly convex, and 

 ornamented with four principal revolving lines of granules ; mar- 

 gin acute, crenulated, and carinated only on the inferior surface ; 

 base with three prominent crenulated lines surrounding the um- 

 bilicus, and with about three or four almost simple lines. 



Diameter f inch. 



Claiborne, Ala. 



NATICA, (Adans.) Lam. 

 Natica bi-sulcata, nob. PI. xiii., fig. 4. 



Shell subglobose ; spire but slightly elevated ; whorls four, 

 smooth, the bod3 T -whorl with radiating sulci on the summit ; 

 mouth semi-lunate, about f the length of shell ; columella slightly 

 thickened, the callus reflected above the middle ; umbilicus broad, 

 doubly grooved, the grooves transversely striated. 



Length .3 inch. 



Claiborne, Ala. 



This species differs mainly from the N. magno-umbilicata of 

 Lea in having the umbilicus doubly grooved. 



ODOSTOMIA, Fleming. 

 Odostomia laevigata, nob. PI. xiii., fig. 5. 



Only a fragment of this species has come to my observation, 

 but its characters are sufficiently defined to distinguish it from all 

 the other species of Odostomia existing in our tertiary formations. 

 It mainly differs from the Actseon (Odostomia) melanellus of Lea 

 in the subangulate form of the body-whorl, and in the columellar 

 plait, which in our species is transverse, and not oblique. 



Length ? . 



Claiborne, Ala. 



TORNATELLA, Lamarck. 

 Tornatella bicincta, nob. PI. xiii., fig. 6. 



Shell ovate, spire elevated ; whorls about six, the body-whorl 

 with numerous revolving lines closely beset with punctures, and 

 two broad smooth bands on the superior portion ; two or three of 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



the remaining whorls also with two smooth bands ; mouth narrow, 

 about | the length of shell. 



Length .4 inch. 



Claiborne, Ala. 



This species differs from the Actseon (Tornatella) lineatus of 

 Lea (A. idoneusf Conrad) in having two smooth bands on the 

 upper portion of the body-whorl instead of one. Mr. Lea men- 

 tions having in his cabinet a species from the Paris basin also 

 with two bands, but I fail to discover the same described in the 

 work of M. Deshayes. 



PISAN1A, Bivon. 

 Pisania bucciniformis, nob. PI. xiii., fig. 7. 



A fragment only of this, the first described species of true 

 'Pisania existing in the Eocene formations of the United States 

 has come to my notice. The body-whorl is about inch in length, 

 striated on the inferior portion, and with a slightly impressed 

 line beneath the suture ; mouth about f length of body-whorl; canal 

 almost obsolete ; columella arcuate, wrinkled at base; outer lip 

 striated within by about seven elevated ridges. 



Length ? . 



Claiborne, Ala. 



The Piaania Claibornensis of Whitfield (Am. Journ. Conchol., 

 vol. i., p. 259 1 ) appears from the description and figure to be more 

 nearly related to Triton. 



CONUS, L. 



Conus pulcherrimus, nob. PI. xiii., fig. 8. 



Shell conical ; spire elevated ; whorls about seven, slightly con- 

 cave above, granularly crenulated on the angle, and transversely 

 striated ; a prominent simple line below the angle, and one of 

 granulations beneath the suture. Aperture? 



Length about | inch. 



Claiborne, Ala. 



PLETJROTOMA, Lam. 

 Pleurotoma insignifica, nob. PI. xiii., fig. 9. 



Shell fusiform, with prominent revolving lines below the middle 

 of the whorl; spire elevated; whorls about five, angular; canal 

 short, obliquely curved ; mouth contracted. 



Length ^ inch. 



Claiborne, Ala. 






214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



The description and figure of Fusus nanus as given by Lea in 

 his "Contributions," agree in all essential respects with the above. 

 No mention is made of the sinuated lines of growth peculiar to 

 the rieurotomae, which in our specimens are very distinct. 

 Although I have not had an oppprtunity to examine Mr. Lea's 

 specimens, it appears to me, nevertheless, highly probable that 

 his Fusus will prove to be a Pleurotoma. 



Pleurotoma denticula, P.aterot. PI. xiii., fig. 10. 



This species, which is one of the most widely diffused of all 

 fossil Pleurotomse, has to my knowledge not been hitherto de- 

 scribed as occurring in any American formation. The P. nodo- 

 carinata, Gabb (unfortunately very poorly figured), in the collec- 

 tions of the Academy belongs to this species. Specimens are to 

 be found also in the Claiborne accumulation of the American 

 Museum of Natural History, New York. 



MELANIA, Lam. 

 Melania Claibornensis, nob. PI. xiii., fig. 11. 



Shell elongated, turreted ; whorls eight, of which the first three 

 are smooth, and the rest furnished with longitudinal folds, those 

 on the bod} r -whorl terminating at about the middle; folds cut by 

 numerous deeply impressed revolving lines, giving a somewhat 

 imbricated appearance; mouth elongated, oval contracted above, 

 and expanding at the base; columella broad, flattened. 



Length .3 inch. 



Claiborne, Ala. 



This species, to which I have provisionally applied the specific 

 name of Claibornensis, is doubly interesting as being the only 

 essentially fresh-water gasteropod found in the Claiborne marine 

 formation and of being at the same time most intimately related 

 to a species found in the Paris basin, Melania mixta, Deshayes. 

 It agrees essentially with all the characters as given by Deshayes, 

 and on comparison with his specimens will in all probability 

 prove to be identical. 



RISSOINA, D'Orbigny. 

 Rissoina plicato-varicosa, nob. PI. xiii., fig. 12. 



Shell sub-turreted ; whorls about seven, convex, ornamented 

 with numerous longitudinal folds (on the body-whorl from 10 to 

 12), and disfigured by several prominent varices; revolving lines 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



numerous, less prominent on the middle of the whorls; aperture 

 ovate, produced into a short canal. 



Length \ inch. 



Claiborne, Ala. 



This species closely resembles, but is less slender, than the 

 Hissoa inchoata. Desh., of the Paris basin. 



MESOSTOMA, Deshayes. 

 Mesostoma rugosa, nob. PI. xiii., fig. 13. 



Shell conico-turbinate ; whorls about seven, scalariform, the 

 first three smooth, the rest ornamented with oblique longitudinal 

 plications, which are crossed by five prominent and a number of 

 lesser revolving ridges, giving the whole a cancellate appearance ; 

 the folds on the body-whorl cease abruptly below the middle; 

 aperture sub-circular, dilated, and produced into a short oblique 

 canal ; outer lip somewhat crenulated by the terminations of the 

 revolvino- ridges. 



Length .4 inches. 



Claiborne, Ala. 



Four species in all are catalogued as belonging to this genus, 

 all from the Eocene of France. The above species differs from 

 the M. grata, Desh., of the Paris basin only in the number of its 

 revolving ridges. The Cerithioderma prima of Conrad, from the 

 American Eocene, is a Mesostoma. 



Note. There is some difficulty in determining the priority in 

 the institution of the genera Mesostoma and Cerithioderma. Tate 

 (Appendix to Woodward's "Manual," 1868) quotes the genus 

 Mesostoma from the year 1864, whereas that portion of Deshayes's 

 work, wherein the genus is described, bears the date of 1858. 

 This is the second year of the publication of the entire work, and 

 as the first volume (Lamellibranchiata) was not completely issued 

 until 1860, it is highly probable that the genus was not character- 

 ized prior to that 3*ear. Conrad published his genus Cerithioderma 

 in March, 1860 (J. A. N. S., vol. iv., 2d series), as founded upon a 

 single species C. prima, but as his characterization is vague and 

 veiy meagre, it appears more natural to accept the genus of Des- 

 hayes, which has already been accepted by most conchologists. 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



ROSTELLARIA, Lam. 

 Rostellaria Whitfieldi, nob. PI. xiii., fig. 14. 



Shell fusiform ; spire tapering, consisting of about nine flattened 

 volutions; bocty-whorl sub-angulate beneath ; columella flexuous, 

 with traces of an obtuse fold ; outer lip with a swollen prominence 

 in the apertural region ; wing ? 



Length 3-4 inches. 



Claiborne, Ala. 



Named in honor of R. P. Whitfield, Esq., the distinguished 

 American paleontologist and colaborer with Prof. James Hall in 

 the great work on the paleontology of the State of New York. 



Two specimens of this species, both unfortunately bereft of 

 their wings, are in possession of the American Museum of Natural 

 History of New York. Their characters are so decidedly at vari- 

 ance with those of any other American Eocene Bostellaria, that 

 we feel no hesitation in applying to them a specific name, although 

 the broken nature of our specimens necessitates an incomplete 

 description. Allied species occur in the London clay and in the 

 Paris basin. 




PROC. A. N. S, 1879 



ri_. 



ji.Jf. <ZeZ. 



HEILPRiN ON EOCENE FOSSILS. 





1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



A COMPARISON OF THE EOCENE MOLLUSCA OF THE SOUTHEASTERN 

 UNITED STATES AND WESTERN EUROPE IN RELATION TO THE DE- 

 TERMINATION OF IDENTICAL FORMS. 



BY ANGELO HEILPRIN. 



The study of the fauna, whether extinct or living, of any coun- 

 try resolves itself into two distinct methods of investigation, the 

 general and the comparative. In the general method we look upon 

 an assemblage or community of animal forms as constituting an 

 integral part of the country it characterizes, and we then consider 

 it only in relation to that country and to itself ( the animal forms 

 inter se). In the second or comparative method we no longer re- 

 gard this community as constituting a whole or unit, but merely 

 as a part of a more extensive community, and we now view it in 

 the relation of a part to a whole. This comparative system of 

 investigation, which, it will be manifest, involves a thorough gen- 

 eral acquaintance with all or most extraneous faunae as well as the 

 one under special consideration, is one of great difficulty, and one 

 that requires more than an ordinary amount of acumen in its pur- 

 suit, for in the broad facts of geographical distribution are con- 

 nected some of the profoundest biological and physical problems. 

 The study of comparative or geographical zoology constitutes one 

 of the essential factors of biological science, for without a true 

 understanding of the general affinities of scattered groups of 

 animals, our conception of the organic universe would be one of 

 disjointed parts instead of a continuous whole. We know, in fact, 

 little of a whole unless we comprehend its relation to its component 

 parts, and per contra, we know little of a part unless we under- 

 stand the relation it bears to the whole. 



The subject of geographical distribution in its bearings on 

 geology, whether considered in its broader sense as pertaining t^) 

 groups, or in the more limited sense as pertaining to the individuals 

 composing those groups, cannot be over-estimated. It is by the 

 recurrence over broad or scattered areas of certain related animal 

 types, and sometimes even over the most remote areas of identi- 

 cal specific forms, that the palaeontologist is enabled to arrange 

 and classify his strata. One single well-determined fossil will, in 

 the absence of further data, frequently determine approximately, 

 15 




213 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



and sometimes exactly, certain geological horizons, and although 

 we cannot in most instances, as Prof. Huxley has forcibly pointed 

 out, positively, or even approximately, correlate, as far as age is 

 concerned, distantly separated formations, we can to a very great 

 extent correlate the cosmical conditions under which the forma- 

 tions in question were deposited. The correct determination, 

 therefore, of all organic remains is one of the greatest import- 

 ance. 



Unfortunately for the development of the science, the doctrine 

 that identical specific forms cannot, or ought not, occur over 

 widely separated areas has taken root in the minds of a few of the 

 most eminent scientific investigators, the baneful effects of whose 

 authority in relation to this special line of research, will be en- 

 countered by the student at almost every step in his investigations. 

 The science of geographical palaeontology, at least as far as the 

 invertebrata are concerned, ma}' be said to be in this country still 

 in a state of infancy, a circumstance parti}' due to the limited 

 number of workers in the field, and partly to the influences just 

 stated. 



I have endeavored in the following pages to summarize as nearly 

 as possible the results obtained from a series of comparisons be- 

 tween the Eocene mollusca of Western Europe and that of the 

 Southeastern United States, undertaken with the view of deter- 

 mining with a certain amount of precision the number of identi- 

 cal and very nearly related species. My comparisons were in a 

 number of cases made between actual specimens, and those mainly 

 determined in the localities to which they belong ; where no speci- 

 mens could be obtained I was compelled to content myself with 

 the various analyses of the descriptions and figures afforded by the 

 works of the most competent authorities. The result shows a far 

 greater intimate relationship to exist between the two faunae than 

 one is led to suppose from an examination of the "Check List" 

 prepared by Mr. Conrad for the Smithsonian Institution for 1866, 

 where, in fact, only about five species are enumerated as common 

 to the Eocene deposits of both shores of the Atlantic, viz. : Ostrea 

 ( Gryphostrea) eversa, Deshayes ; Cardita planicosta, Lam. ; ? Pho- 

 rus (Onustus) extensas, Sow.; HipjJocrenes columbaria, Defr. ; 

 and (?) Voluta (Volutililhes) mutata, Desh. In addition to these 

 Conrad enumerated in 1833 ("Fossil shells of the Tertiary Forma- 

 tions," p. 34) the following: Solarium patulum, Lam.; S. canali- 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



culatum, Lam.; Bulimus (Niso) terebellatus, Lam.; Sigaretus 

 canaliculatus, Sow.; Calyptraea (Trochita) trochiformis,'Lam.; 

 Pyrula tricarinata, Lam.; Avicula trigona, Lam.; Cytherea ery- 

 cinoides, Lam.; C. sube?ycinoides, Desh.; Corbis lameuosa, Lam.; 

 and Fistulana elongata, Desh., most of which on examination 

 prove to be as well American as European forms. In the Ap- 

 pendix to Morton's Synopsis ("Synopsis of the Organic Remains 

 of the Cretaceous Group," 1834) only six European species are 

 recognized as occurring in the American formation : Solarium 

 canaliculatum, Lam.; S. patulum, Lam.; Bulimus terebellatus, 

 Lam.; Gardita planicosta, Lam.; Corbis lameliosa, Lam.; and 

 Fistulana elongata, Desh. In the list published by Conrad in 1846 

 (Airier. Journ. Science, 2d ser. vol. i. p. 219), of the preceding 

 enumerations only two species are retained as being " analogous" 

 to transatlantic forms, Cytherea Mortoni, Con ( Cytherea ery- 

 cinoides,Ija,m.; and C. suberycinoides, Desh.) and A vicula limula, 

 Con. (A. trigona, Lam.), but in addition we have five new ones 

 catalogued: Cardita Blandingi, Con. (C. acuticosta, Lam.) ; G. 

 rotunda, Lea. (C. asperula, Desh.) ; Cardium Nicolleti, Con. (C. 

 semigranosum [ granulatum'], Sow.) ; Turritella Mortoni, Con. 

 (=?) ; and RosteUama laqueata, Con. (R. Jissurella, Lam.). 

 Finally, all species considered identical prior to 1866 are rejected 

 as such with one exception (Cardita planicosta) in the Smithso- 

 nian List. The reasons for so doing, which, in the majorit}' of 

 cases, I believe, are not stated, appear to me incomprehensible. 



In the introduction to his " Contributions to Geology," 1833, p. 

 19, Mr. Lea states that he is "not perfectly satisfied that a single 

 species is strictly analogous to those from the Eocene Period of 

 Europe ", but in a note (pp. 207, 208) makes the fol- 

 lowing comparisons : Pasithea umbilicata, Lea, with Bulimus lere- 

 bellatus, Lam. ; Venericardia rotunda, Lea, with V. squamosa, 

 Lam.; Pectunculus obliqua(uus) , Lea, with P. nanus, Desh. ; Ostrea 

 divaricata, Lea, with 0. Jlabellula, Lam.; and Solen Blainoillii, 

 Lea, with Solen effusus, Lam. 



The list herewith appended, and which it is my intention to 

 complete at a future date, will, I trust, increase our knowledge on 

 the interesting questions of relationship and geographical distri- 

 bution. 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1819. 



Ostrea divaricata, Lea. " Contributions to Geology," p. 90, pi. 3, fig. 69. 

 0. selUvformis, Conrad, pars ? 



This oyster is referred without doubt both by Nyst (" Coquil- 

 les et Polypiers Fossiles," 1843, p. 323) and Giebel {Repertorium 

 to Goldfuss' u Petrefacta Germanise," 1866, p. 41) to the O.flabel- 

 lula of Lamarck, which is a very variable, and one of the most 

 widely diffused forms of fossil oyster. It is cited by D'Orbigny 

 (Prodr. de paleon.) as occurring at Claiborne, Ala., and by Des- 

 hayes (Animaux s. vert., bassin de Paris) also at Cutch in India 

 and Cairo in Egypt. 



Pecten Deshayesii, Lea. Contr. p. 87, pi. 3, fig. 66 

 (et P. Lyelli, ace. to Conrad l). 



This Pecten is referred with but little doubt by Nyst (Coqu. et 

 PoL, p. 288) to P.opercularis, Lamk., which species, however, be- 

 longs to a much more recent period than the Eocene of Alabama. 

 On the assurance of identity Nyst in 1836 founded upon a new 

 Belgian Pecten the specific name of Deshayesii, but his fossil must 

 be carefully distinguished from the American one in question. 

 Having seen but one example of Lea's species I am unable to 

 make the proper comparisons. 



Cardita rotunda, Lea. Contr. p. 70, pi. 2, fig. 48, as Venericardia. 



This species very closely resembles the Cardita imbricata of 

 Lamarck, to which, in the absence of specimens, it is with some 

 hesitation referred by Nyst (p. 209), and also by Bronn {Index 

 Palseontologicus, I. 226). The only difference that I could detect 

 between the two species, on an examination of numerous speci- 

 mens from Grignon, France, and Claiborne, Ala., was that in the 

 C. imbricata there was a tendency in the ribs of the posterior slope 

 to become crowded. As some specimens of both forms, however, 

 could not readily be distinguished from each other, I believe this 

 circumstance to be mainly accidental, and therefore consider the 

 G. rotunda as certainly nothing more than a mere variety of G. 

 imbricata. 



Cardita planicosta, Lamk. 



This species of Cardita, which is so extensively distributed over 

 the Eocene deposits of Europe, is certainly identical with the simi- 

 lar forms of Cardita found in the same formation of the United 

 States. Lea (Cont. p. 19) states that according to his observa- 

 tions the American species differs from the European in the num- 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



ber of its costae (about 29 instead of 34), but on an examination 

 of numerous French specimens I found the number to be frequently 

 only 29. 



Cardium Nicolleti, Conrad. J. A. N. S., viii. p. 190. 



This Cardium will, I believe, on close examination prove to be 

 the G. semigranulatum of Sowerby (Mineral Conchology, II. p. 

 99). It does not differ from a species of Cardium in the Academy 

 Museum marked "0. semistriatum, London Clay," but as the C. 

 semistriatum, Deshayes, differs in the arrangement of its granu- 

 lated striae from the specimen in question marked semistriatum, 

 and as the last agrees in characters with the description accorded 

 by Sowerby to C. semigranulatum, it is highly probable that the 

 names have been simply reversed. 



Corbis (Gafrarium) lirata, Con. A. J. Science, I., 2d ser. p. 401. 



This species was originally described by Conrad as the C. lamel- 

 losa, Lam., with the characters of which it was found to agree in all 

 essential respects. I have been unable to note any material differ- 

 ence between the two species in question, and do not hesitate, after 

 an examination of a number of specimens representing Lamarck's 

 type, to unite the two under the one specific name of lamellosa. 



Limopsis ellipsis, Lea. Contr. p. 78, pi. 3, fig. 56, as Pectuncnlus. 



This species closely resembles in general characters the L. 

 (Sfalagmium !) Nystii of Galeotti, from which it mainly differs in 

 the greater number of teeth both in the anterior and posterior 

 series, the number in each series rarely falling below twelve. 



Limopsis aviculoides, Con. Foss. Shells of Tert., p. 39, as Pectunculus. 

 (Pectunculus obliquus, Lea.) 



Bronn (Index Palaeont., ii., p. 936) allies this species with the 

 Limopsis nana of Deshayes, from which it differs very materially 

 in the greater elevation of the umbones and cardinal region. Nyst 

 considers it as closely related to Trigonocselia auritoides, Gal., 

 but the obliquity in form is much greater in the American species. 

 It differs from the Limopsis aurita of Sassi {Area aurita, Broc- 

 chi, " Conchiologia Fossile Sabapennina" ii., p. 485) in having a 

 crenulated margin. 



Corbula oniscus, Con. A. J. Science xxiii., p. 341. 

 C. Murchisonii, Lea. 



This species is referred by Bronn (Index Palaeont.) to the G. 

 rugosa of Lamarck, to the description of which, as given by Pes- 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP ^18*79. 



hayes ("Coquilles Fossiles," i., p. 51) it agrees in all essential 

 respects. As in the case of the French species it frequently re- 

 solves itself into two layers, the inner of which may at first sight 

 be readily mistaken for a new species (C.bicostata ? Nyst). The 

 C. gibba, Olivi, which, according to Nyst, is the equivalent of C. 

 Murchisonii, Lea, is a Miocene (?), Pliocene, and living species. 

 I have been unable to institute direct comparisons for want of 

 specimens. 



Cytherea Mortoni, Con. J. A. N. S., vii., p. 150. 



This species of Cytherea was originally confounded by Conrad 

 with the G. erycinoides, Lam. (Foss. Shells of Tert., 1832, p. 34), 

 but a close examination shows the latter to be comparatively more 

 elevated, and its ribs to be proportionately much more robust. 



Trochita trochiformis, Lea. Contr., p. 96, pi. 3, fig. 76. 



This species, described as new by Mr. Lea in 1833, is synony- 

 mous with T. (Calyptrxa) trochiformis of Lamarck (Trochus 

 apertus, Brand.). 



Cylichna galba, Con. Foss. Shells of Tert., p. 34, as Volvaria. 

 {Bulla St. Hillairii, Lea.) 



This species appears to me to be erroneously referred by Bronn 

 to Bulla constr'icta, Sow. (Miner. Conch., vol. v., p. 96), as 

 Sowerb} r 's species has no fold on the columella, at least no men- 

 tion is made of it in his description, nor does it appear in his 

 figure. Our species appears to be closely allied to if not identical 

 with Bulla Brocchii, Bronn, an Italian (Miocene?) species (Brocchi, 

 Conch. Foss. Subapenn., ii., p. 217, as Bulla ovulata? Lam.). 



Cypraedia fenestralis, Con. Proc. A. N. S , vii. p. 262. 



This appears to me to be identical with Cyprsea (Luponia, 

 Graj') elegans of Defrance, from which I cannot discover any dis- 

 tinguishing: characters. Conrad states that no mention is made 

 by Deshaj^es in his description of the fossil of the Paris basin of 

 " microscopical regular lines," but an examination of a specimen 

 in the Academy collection shows them to be present. 



Tornatella (Actseon) pomilia, Con. Foss. Shells of Tert.. p. 45. 

 Actceon punctatus, Lea. 

 Monoptygma elegans, Lea. 



= Tornatella inflata? Ferussac. 



I 



Tornatella (Tornatellaea) bella, Con. 



A comparison of this species with Sowerby's description and 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



figure of Actseon simulatus {Bulla simulata, Brander) leaves no 

 doubt that the two species are identical. Nor does a comparison 

 of actual specimens, from Alabama and Barton, England, show- 

 any varying characters. 

 Fusus (Bulbifusus) inauratus, Con. Foss. Shells of Tert., p. 29. 



This species is more closely allied to F. bulbiformis, Lara., than 

 to F. ficulneus, Lam., to which last it is doubtfully referred by 

 Bronn (p. 512). It differs from the former, however, in having 

 the canal more produced, in the whorls being strongly subangulate 

 above, and in the superior ones being crenulated on their basal 

 margins. 



Pyrula penita, Con. Foss. Shells of Tert., p 32. 



P. tricarinata, Con. 



P. cancellata, Lea. 



P. elegantissima, Lea. 

 I am disposed to consider the above as identical with Pyrula 

 nexilis, Lam. (and var. P. tricarinata, Lara.), which is a most 

 variable fossil. Both American and European forms appear in 

 the most diverse stages of convexity and angulation. Conrad, 

 although he subsequently sepai-ated the transatlantic forms 

 into two distinct species, states (Foss. Shells of Tert., 2d ed., p. 

 39), "that the variety is not distinct I am assured by comparison 

 of many specimens." I ara also inclined to unite with the above 

 the P. (Fusus) Mississippiensis, Con. 



Oliva bombylis, Con. Foss. Shells of Tert., 2d ed., p. 42. 

 (0. constricta, Lea.) 



Differs from the 0. mitreola, Lam., in having the plications at 

 base less numerous and somewhat less regular, and in wanting the 

 upper of the two impressed revolving lines on the body whorl. 

 In the absence of the line it agrees more closely with 0. nitidula, 

 which was separated by Deshayes from the 0. mitreola as a dis- 

 tinct species. The 0. Brocchii, Bronn (Voluta ispidula, L. var. 

 Brocchi u Conch. Foss. Subapenn.," ii., p. 315, pi. iii., fig. 16), which 

 is as well a Miocene, and perhaps even living species (Bronn, iii., 

 p. 481), appears to be very clearly related to our species. 

 Cancellaria tortiplica, Con. Am. Journ. of Conchol., vol. i., p. 211. 



On an examination of specimens of this species and C evalsa, 

 Brander (from Barton, England) I find the two to be most inti- 

 mately allied to each other, the main difference being that the C. 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



tortiplica is somewhat more slender and elevated. As this may 

 be only an accidental feature in the few examples which have come 

 under my notice, I feel but little hesitation in uniting the two as 

 one species. Bronn and Nyst (p. 477) refer with some doubt the 

 G. parva of Lea to Brander's type, but this diminutive Alabama 

 species has only two plaits on the columella, and is destitute of 

 varices. 



Niso umbilicata, Lea. Contr., p. 103, as Pasithea. 

 Niso terebellatus, Lamk. 



I have been unable to detect the slightest difference between 

 specimens obtained from both species. 



Sigaretus canaliculars, Sow. Min. Conch., iv., p. 115. 



This shell is mentioned by Conrad (Foss. Shells of Tert., 2d ed., 

 p. 34) as occurring at Claiborne, Ala. It is probably identical 

 with S. declivus and S. bilix, Con., which differ among themselves 

 about as much as they do from the European species. 



Solarium ornatum, Lea. Contr., p. 120. 



This species is placed without doubt by Bronn (ii., p. 1153) as 

 synonymous with S. canaliculatum, Lam. The description and 

 figures as given by Desires (Coqu. Foss., ii., p. 221) answer per- 

 fectly to the American species, and I feel no doubt but that an 

 examination of specimens of both species will prove their identity. 

 The S. canaliculatum is mentioned by Conrad (Foss. Shells of 

 Tert., 2d ed., p. 34) as occurring in the Alabama Eocene deposits. 



Pleurotoma denticula, Bast. Descrip. Geol. du Bass. Ter. Sud-ouest de la France, 

 1825, p. 63. 



On a comparison of specimens of the P. nodo-carinata, Gabb 

 (J. A. N. S., 2d series, vol. iv., p. 379), with the exhaustive analysis 

 of the above species as given by Mr. F. E. Edwards in his " Mono- 

 graph of the Eocene Mollusca" of England (Reports of the 

 Palasontographical Society), 1 feel no hesitation in including it 

 among the numerous varieties of Basterot's species. No mention 

 is made by Gabb of a division of the central crenulation into a 

 double series, but at least some of the specimens deposited in the 

 Academy Museum, and marked with his specific name, show this 

 feature distinctly. The P. denticula is a very widely distributed 

 species of Pleurotoma, its range in Europe extending from Eng- 

 land through Belgium ( Nyst, u Goqu. et Pol. Foss." p. 526) and 

 France (Basterot, sup.; Grateloup " Gonchyl. Foss. des Terr. Ter.," 




1819.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 225 



atlas, pi. 11 (20) fig. 8) to North Italy (Bellardi " Monog. Pleurot. 

 Foss. del Piem.," Memorie delict Reale Accademia di Torino, 2d 

 ser., vol. ix., p. 576). This species corresponds probably to some 

 extent with Sowerby's P. comma. Unquestionable specimens of 

 P. denticula from the Eocene of Alabama are to be found in the 

 American Museum of Natural History of New York. 



Mesostoma rugosa, nob. Proc A. N. S., Oct. 1879. 



This species might readily be mistaken for the M. grata, Desh., 

 of the Paris basin, from which it differs only in the greater num- 

 ber of its revolving ridges. 



Melania Claibornensis, nob. Proc. A. N. S., Oct. 1879. 



This diminutive Melania, which to my knowledge constitutes 

 the only essentially fresh-water gasteropod found to the present 

 time in the Claiborne marine formation, cannot in its characters 

 be readily distinguished from the M. mixta, Desh., of the Paris 

 basin (description and fig. in Desh. u Animaux s. vert."). Having 

 observed but one specimen, and not wishing to definitely deduce 

 its affinities from the characters drawn from a single example, I 

 have provisionally applied to the American shell the specific name 

 which it bears above. 



A close comparison of the Eocene mollusea of the east and west 

 Atlantic shores will, I am confident, reveal a larger number of 

 identical forms than those enumerated in the above list. The 

 Naticidse and Pectunculidse, two families requiring acute revision, 

 appear more especially to be intimately related in their specific 

 forms. 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



revision of the pal.2e0crin0idea. 

 by charles wachsmuth and frank springer. 



Introduction. 



According to Miller's catalogue of American paleozoic fossils, 

 there have been described, in this country alone, up to the summer 

 of 1877, about 800 species of Crinoids, not including Blastoids and 

 Cystideans. If we add to this number some 400 species from Europe 

 an estimate which is certainly not exaggerated when we remem- 

 ber that Schultze described from the Devonian of the Eifel alone 

 73 species ; DeKoninck and Le Hon from Belgium 45 ; and An- 

 gelin from the Silurian of Sweden 176 we have from both coun- 

 tries about 1250 species. Making due allowance for synonyms, 

 we have possibly 1000 good species, which are distributed among 

 from 150 to 175 genera. Many of the latter were established at 

 a time when our knowledge of the Crinoids was in its infancy. 

 They were frequently founded upon one or two species, often, in- 

 deed, on a single imperfect specimen ; which resulted in many de- 

 fective, insufficient, and not unfrequently incorrect descriptions, 

 producing endless perplexing complications afterwards 



There was a time when nearly every fossil Crinoid was IJncri- 

 nites. This was the case almost until 1821, when J. S. Miller de- 

 scribed his well-known genera Poteriocrinus, Actinocrinus, Pla- 

 tycrinus, Rhodocrinus, and Cyathoc?*inm, which have been uni- 

 versally adopted by the later paleontologists with the exception, 

 perhaps, of Cyathocrinus, which was badly defined by him. As 

 new species were discovered, the founding of additional genera 

 progressed, and generic distinctions came to be recognized be- 

 tween groups of forms, which substantially agreed in the arrange- 

 ment of the plates of the body, but differed in the anal plates, 

 the construction of the arms, and other characters to which but 

 little attention had before been paid. Through such separations 

 it resulted in many cases that the parental genus was divided up 

 into a number of genera, and it finalty became evident that some 

 of the features which had been considered of mere generic im- 

 portance, were family characters. The majority of the genera 

 thus established have been adopted by most of our leading pale- 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



ontologists, but b}' some entirely ignored. It is a singular fact 

 that European authors have commonly refused to accept our 

 genera of Actinocrinidse, while they sustained those of the Cya- 

 thocrinidae, which are certainly no better defined. This is doubt- 

 less due to the fact that in Europe the Actinocrinidae do not 

 abound in such wonderful variet}' as in this country. If our 

 European brethren had to deal with nearly 300 species, as we 

 have, they would perhaps be more ready to accept our divisions. 



As early as 1842 T. Austin and T. Austin, Jr. (Rec. & Foss. 

 Crinoidea), undertook to subdivide the Crinoidea into families, but 

 they were not vei'y successful, as they placed together types of 

 very distinct groups. Roemer (Letluea Geognostica, 1855, 3d 

 Ausgabe) made another attempt in the same direction. He was 

 the first author who pointed out correctly the relations of the 

 Blastoids and Cystideans with the true Crinoids ; and, if he was 

 not so fortunate in establishing his families, we must consider 

 how imperfectly Crinoids were known at that time. Some of 

 Roemer's family names are still in use, but scarcely two of our 

 present authors interpret them alike. 



The late Prof. Angelin 1 divided the Silurian Crinoids of Sweden 

 into four sections : Trimera, Tetramera, Pentamera, and Poly- 

 mera. A subdivision according to the number of basal plates 

 may facilitate elemeutary studies, but it is certainly not a natural 

 classification. Genera which are evidently intimate^' related 

 for instance, Platycrinus and Dichocrinus, Melocrinus and Rho- 

 docrinus are thereby widely separated, while very distinct types, 

 such as Phodocrinus and Poteriocrinus, are brought together. 

 Angelin arranged his 40 genera of Swedish Crinoids under 23 

 families ; but, as he gave no diagnoses of them, we are at a loss 

 to know upon what principle his families were established. 



In the second part of an article on the " Internal and External 

 Structure of Paleozoic Crinoids," by Chas. Wachsmuth, published 

 in the August and September numbers of the Amer. Journ. Sci., 

 1877, one of the writers gave a minute description of the summit 



1 In the Iconographia Crinoideorum in stratis Suecice Siluricis fossilium, 

 auctore N. P. Angelin, opus posthumum edendum curavit Regia Academia 

 Suecise, cum tabulis XXIX. This is one of the finest illustrated works on 

 Crinoids that has ever been published, and it must be regarded as a great 

 loss to science that the distinguished author died before the completion of 

 his work. 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



or ventral disk of the earlier Crinoids, and reached the conclusion 

 that the construction of the vault affords good characters for a 

 separation into families. He distinguished three principal plans 

 though he admitted the existence of a number of others upon 

 which the summit is constructed : 



1. The summit composed of a more or less pliable, sometimes 

 perhaps squamous, integument, yielding to motion in the body 

 and arms. 



2. The summit composed of solid plates with a porous ventral 

 sac, located posteriorly on the disc, and closed at the top. Anal 

 opening rarely observed, but probably lateral. 



3. The summit composed of heavy immovable plates, closely 

 joining and forming a dome arching the entire oral side. Anal 

 opening directly through the wall of the dome or at the extremi- 

 ty of a tube, the so-called proboscis. 



We have since given this subject our special attention, and find 

 that these diversities in the construction of the ventral portion of 

 the body bear a striking relation to the general arrangement of 

 the plates of the dorsal side ; that the parental genera to which 

 we have referred have each their own peculiar summit structure, 

 and that the genera into which they were subsequently subdivided 

 are characterized by mere differentiations of the original plan. 

 We find that Ichthyocrinus and its congeners, Taxocrinus, Mes- 

 pilocrinus, etc., which are embraced in almost the same generic 

 formula, possess summit structure No. 1 ; that in Cyathocriyius, 

 Poteriocrinns, Heterocrinus, and all genera with five basals, five 

 subradials, and five radials, the summit structure agrees with No. 

 2; and that the Actinocrinidae, Platycrinidse, and Rhodocrinidse, 

 with their numerous genera, are constructed like No. 3. We con- 

 sider that the last three groups are subdivisions of one great group, 

 and propose to introduce them hereafter as subfamilies. These 

 three, or, as we may say, five families thus indicated, include more 

 than one-half of all known paleozoic Crinoids. The others we 

 leave for future consideration. 



The absence of an external oral aperture is most remarkable in 

 the anatomy of the earlier Crinoids. The actinostome, or oral 

 centre, is situated beneath the vault, and forms the radial centre 

 of a peculiar skeleton of tubular passages which connect with the 

 arms. These passages beneath the vault are evidenth' homo- 

 logous with the food grooves and ambulacral canals at the peris- 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 229 



tome of recent Crinoids, the vault being thus a mere covering or 

 protection. That the mouth was internal in the majority, if not 

 all paleozoic Crinoids, as well as all the Cystideans and Blastoids, 

 is very significant, and impresses us most forcibly with the idea 

 that the earlier Crinoids form a distinct group, and that the solid 

 covering may have been essential under the conditions that pre- 

 vailed in paleozoic times. 



The genus Lichinocrinus, which Hall describes from the Lower 

 Silurian of Cincinnati, affords an instructive example in this 

 respect. In this interesting form, the oral or ventral side was 

 always attached to a shell, coral or other foreign substance ; the 

 dorsal side has a long stem, but whether this was attached to the 

 bottom or not, is not known. The oral side, when found detached, 

 which is of very rare occurrence, shows a large number of striae, 

 which converge to a very small opening in the centre. According 

 to our interpretation, this opening is the mouth, the stria? the food 

 passages, and the shell to which the ventral side is attached, takes 

 the place of the vault, which is as yet undeveloped. 



Another very characteristic distinction between ancient and 

 recent Crinoids is to be found in the comparative^ large size and 

 massive body plates in the fossil, contrasted with the diminutive 

 body and very long and highly developed arms of recent types ; 

 and the same is even more strikingly true as to Blastoids and 

 Cystideans. To illustrate, we might say that in the Pentacrinidse 

 they are fully developed ; that they are in progress of growth in 

 paleozoic Crinoids, and that they are only budding or sprouting 

 in Blastoids and Cystideans ; while in Lichinocrinus, which is 

 probably still lower in the scale of organization, the arms have 

 not yet made their appearance. 



Upon these distinctions, principally, Wachsmuth (Am. Journ. 

 Sci., Sept. 1877, p. 190) proposed to separate the paleozoic from 

 the recent Crinoids, under the name Pal^ocrinoidea, as a sub- 

 order of the Crinoids, of equal rank with the Blastoidea and 

 Cystidea. 



To facilitate a better understanding of the two groups, we now 

 direct attention to certain organs which have been known to exist 

 in Cystideans and Blastoids, and which we think existed in a 

 modified form in the Paleocrinoids. These organs, which were 

 called " hydrospires" by Billings (Am. Journ. Sci., July, 18G9, p. 

 75), occupy rather large spaces within the body in the first-named 






230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1819. 



groups, and this may perhaps explain in a measure the compara- 

 tively large size of the eatyx in the older Crinoids generally. The 

 hydrospires were located within the perivisceral cavity, connected 

 with the inner floor of the test, and communicated, so far as ascer : 

 tained, through the test witli the outside water. In the Cystideans 

 the hydrospires are of a rhomboidal shape each rhomb being 

 divided into two triangles by a suture between two of the plates 

 (PI. 17, Figs. 7, 8.). In Caryocrinus ornatus, each of the four sides 

 of the rhombs 4s bordered bj r a row of small tubercles (PI. 17, Fig. 

 6), some of which have a single pore in the apex, while others are 

 perforated by two to twenty or more. The pores penetrate through 

 the plates, but do not communicate directly with the visceral cavity 

 of the body. Internally, each hydrospire consists of a number of 

 flattened tubes, arranged parallel to each other, and each tube re- 

 ceives two of the pores, one at each end. In a large hydrospire, 

 there are about twenty or more tubes. Whatever may have been 

 the special function of these tubes, naturalists generally agree 

 that they belong to the respiratory sj'stem, and we infer from the 

 distribution of the pores in variable numbers at and about the 

 apices of the tubercles, that they very probably served as a madre- 

 poric apparatus, through which water for respiration was intro- 

 duced and expelled. In other genera of the Cystideans, we find 

 in the test one or more striated rhombs with fissures and pores, 

 somewhat resembling the madreporic body of other Echinoderms. 

 In the Blastoids, there are certain orifices arranged around the 

 actinal pole, which have been called ovarian apertures on account 

 of their supposed resemblance to similar openings in the Ophiu- 

 rans, but if they were connected with the reproductive organs, 

 which is by no means proved, they evidently had additional im- 

 portant functions. These openings appear in various forms. We 

 find in the earlier t} r pes fissures arranged on the upper portion of 

 the body ; at a later period slits along each side of the ambulacra, 

 and in the latest and higher types, five pairs of orifices which 

 surround the oral centre. None of these openings communicate 

 with the general cavity of the body, but they all connect with 

 peculiar organs closely resembling the internal tubes of Caryo- 

 crinus, and which are also called " hydrospires." The hydrospires 

 of the Blastoids, though actually arranged interradially, are 

 located beneath the ambulacra, and occupy the perivisceral cavity, 

 extending laterally for some distance beyond the sinus along the 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



inner side of the forked plate. In most genera, they are con- 

 structed upon the same general plan. There are ten sacs (com- 

 pare PI. 17, Fig. 5) which do not connect with each other, disposed 

 in pairs, one pair to each ambulacrum, and each pair separated by 

 the lancet piece. Toward the visceral cavity, they are folded into 

 a number of longitudinal plications, which show neither pores nor 

 passages. The inner and outer folds alternate with each other, 

 and are distended at their closed ends. On approaching the apex 

 of the body, they coalesce to form two separate sets of tubes. 

 The tubes from the inner folds are formed by the adhesion of the 

 walls of the outer, and, vice versa, so that the folds which open 

 toward the visceral cavity give rise to the outer set of tubes, while 

 those opening in the opposite direction become the inner tubes. 

 The former terminate within coridors leading to the so-called 

 ovarian orifices, those of each two adjoining hydrospires of two 

 different ambulacra terminating in one orifice; while, the latter 

 communicate with an annular organ located against the inner wall 

 of the test and surrounding the oral centre. The number of folds 

 varies from three to nine or more. The walls of the sacs, which 

 were evidently composed of fine membranous substance, must 

 have been strengthened by the secretion of calcareous particles, 

 or they would not be found so well preserved; and they were 

 flexible since we find the folds in various degrees of expansion. 

 In Codaster, one of the earliest and probably one of the lowest 

 type of the Blastoids, and in Codonites, its subcarboniferous repre- 

 sentative, there is in place of the folded sacs a large number of 

 tubes placed side by side, and arranged parallel with the external 

 fissures or grooves. This structure of the hydrospires so closely 

 resembles that of some of the Cystideans that Billings proposed 

 to remove Codaster from the Blastoids and place it among the 

 Cystideans. This we cannot endorse, but we do agree with him, 

 that whatever may have been the functions of the calycine pores, 

 pectinated rhombs, and internal tubes in the Cystideans, those of 

 the parallel tubes or folded sacs in the Blastoids must have been 

 very similar if not identical. 1 



1 We have given above the description of the hydrospires in Pentremites. 

 Those of Granatocrinu8 and Nucleocrinus vary in some of the details. 

 One of us, who devoted much time to the study of the Blastoids, made a 

 large number of sections of the hydrospires, in difi'erent genera, and finds 






232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



No such organs have ever been described in the true Crinoids 

 neither from the Palseocrinoidea nor the Pentacrinidae. 



We have given so minute a description of the hydrospires as 

 they occur in the C\ r stideans and Blastoids, partly because they 

 have been indifferently known, but also in order that we may bet- 

 ter compare with them certain organic structures, which we have 

 discovered in some Paleocrinoids, and which we think still further 

 distinguish the latter from recent Crinoids, while at the same 

 time indicating a closer relationship with the Blastoids and 

 Cystideans. 



Wachsmuth, in Am. Journ. Sci., Aug. 1871, p. 126, noted a 

 marked difference between the proboscis in the Actinocrinidse and 

 that in the Cyathocrinidae. He considered the former a mere 

 anal tube, or prolongation of the anal opening; but this organ in 

 the Cyathocrinidae he believed to be an essential part of the body, 

 in which the anal opening, here located laterally and low down, is 

 of but secondary importance, and therefore proposed to call it 

 " ventral sac" instead of proboscis. We have since had occasion 

 to examine the ventral sac in several most excellent specimens, 

 particularly with reference to the pores to which he called atten- 

 tion, and have become convinced that these are very probably the 

 homologues of the calycine pores in the Cj'stideans. The plates 

 of the ventral sac in the Gyathocrinidae are usually comparatively 

 large, rather thin, hexagonal pieces, longitudinally arranged, alter- 

 nating with those of the adjoining rows. The pores perforate the 

 plate at each angle. It is now very interesting to observe that in 

 some species for instance, Poteriocrinus 31issouriensis, Shum. 

 Pot. (Scaphiocrinus) unicus Hall, there are in place of the pores 

 slit-like fissures of considerable length. Four of these fissures 

 sometimes six connect with those of the plates of the adjacent 

 row, those of each half of a plate meeting corresponding slits in 

 two different plates, so that one half of the fissures point upward 

 and the other downward. We have filed several of the plates to 

 the very bottom, and have found that the fissures pass entirely 

 through them, and in many cases, where they have been observed, 

 they form longitudinal depressions along the ventral sac, caused 

 bj' the thinning of the plates toward the fissures. In some species, 



that they form excellent generic distinctions. It is really astonishing how 

 beautifully in some instances, these delicate organs have been preserved. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



the fissures occur not only at the lateral, but also at the upper 

 and lower sides of the plates, meeting here in like manner with 

 the slits of the adjoining plates. In species in which the plates 

 are provided with three slits to a side, the median one is larger 

 than the other two, thus forming with the corresponding slits of 

 the adjoining plate the figure of a quadrangle or rhomb, divided 

 into two triangles, exactly as Billings describes the parallel canals 

 which compose the hydrospires in Caiyocrinus. Indeed, the simi- 

 larity which seems to exist in this respect between the two groups, 

 is so striking, that we can scarcely doubt that both structures 

 were adapted to the performance of the same functions. It is 

 true that the hydrospires in Garyocrinus are located on the aboral, 

 and in the Gyathocrinidse on the oral side of the body, but it must 

 be remembered, as already shown (Am. Journ. Sci., Sept. 1877, p. 

 190) that the entire test of paleozoic Crinoids forms a part of the 

 abactinal system, and the position of the hydrospires in Cysti- 

 deans is by no means confined to the aboral side, nor to the oral 

 in Paleocrinoids. We find in the sen us Porocrinus, Billings, 

 which forms a kind of link between Cystideans and Paleocrinoids 

 (the arrangement of the plates of the calyx is exactly like that of 

 all Cyathocrinidse), that the lrydrospires are altogether confined 

 to the calyx. In the sutures between the plates, there exist a 

 number of striated, poriferous areas, resembling the pectinated 

 rhombs in their structure, and though their form and position are 

 somewhat different from those of any other known Crinoid or 

 Cystidean, there can be no doubt that they performed in the 

 animal the same office. Unfortunately we do not know whether 

 this genus had a poriferous ventral sac ; nor have we been able to 

 ascertain whether the longitudinal depressions on the ventral sac 

 which we have noticed above, were covered perhaps by perforated 

 plates, such as Billings observed upon the tubercles of Garyocri- 

 nus or only the pores and fissures, but we are inclined to think 

 the former was the case, since we found in some other specimens of 

 P. uriicus,r\o depressions, but at the same time no fissures nor pores. 

 In many of the Actinocri?iidse, Platycinidee, and Rhodocrinidse, 

 which are provided with a simple anal tube or an anal opening 

 directly through the vault, the respiratory organs were probably 

 located within the main body, at least there are many facts which 

 seem to indicate this. In an article on page 248 of the Proceed- 

 ings of the Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1878, we noted the existence 

 16 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18*79. 



of certain pores or openings located between the arm bases and 

 separated from the arm passages by a thin partition. Their num- 

 ber varies from ten to twenty or more. In Batocrinus, where 

 they are most conspicuous, there are twenty, no matter whether 

 the species has more or less than twenty arms. They are about 

 one-third the size of the arm passages, with which tliey are in 

 very near the same horizontal plane. There are two pores to 

 each interradial field, one to the left of one arm, and one to the 

 right of another. Ten other pores have a radial position, two 

 within each of the five axillary spaces which form the median 

 portion of the rays. In Strotocrinus, which has an enormous 

 body, each arm has a pore, and so in Steganocrinus, Eucladocri- 

 nas, and apparently in all genera in which the arms branch off 

 alternately. Other genera have only ten pores. In Ollacrinus 

 the pores are represented by two longitudinal passages through 

 the tubular extensions of the interradial series, or the false arms 

 as usually called. 



As these openings, especial^ in Batocrimis, are comparatively 

 large, it is somewhat surprising that they have never been men- 

 tioned by other paleontologists. Their position corresponds almost 

 exactly with that of the so-called ovarian apertures of the Blas- 

 toids though they are placed at a greater distance from the radial 

 centre. The openings in both groups are situated within the 

 brachial zone or at the extreme border of the summit. In the 

 Blastoids the ventral disc or summit is reduced to the minimum 

 in size, being composed only of the covering of the ventral open- 

 ing ; and this explains why the orifices are here found close to the 

 radial centre, while in the forms above named they are located 

 away from it. The pseudambulacral fields of the Blastoids repre- 

 sent the ventral groove of a recumbent arm, and the small pas- 

 sages which enter the body near the apex and beneath the central 

 covering are the homologues of the arm passages in the true 

 Crinoids. (Compare PI. 17, Fig. 4.) The so-called ovarian open- 

 ings are therefore located beside the arms, just as the pores in Bato- 

 crinus, and this strongly indicates a similarity in their functions. 



In addition to this the perivisceral cavity in the Actinocrinid.se 

 contains a number of chambers, and, from the brachial zone down 

 to the base, is separated from the visceral cavity by a peculiar 

 partition or network, pierced by innumerable pores and passages 

 leading toward the visceral cavity which contains the digestive 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 235 



apparatus. Whether the above described pores communicated 

 with these chambers cannot be determined from the fossil, but we 

 may perhaps infer this from their position, and also that the 

 chambers themselves were or contained organs similar to those 

 described as hydrospires in other groups of the Crinoidea. 



Folded sacs or parallel tubes, as in the Blastoids, have not 

 hitherto been noticed in the Pahieocrinoidea. That they existed 

 in some groups of the latter is almost certain. The so-called 

 "consolidating apparatus" of Cupressocrinus (PI. 17, Fig. 3) is 

 in our opinion a true set of hydrospires, arranged in pairs exactly 

 as in Blastoids, but spreading out horizontally instead of verti- 

 cally. Angelin (Iconogr. Crin., PI. VIII. Fig. 7, a, b) figures a 

 Crotalocrinus, in which the consolidating apparatus or hydro- 

 spires, as we believe is most excellently preserved. Even the 

 inner tubes can be traced, and, if there existed still a doubt 

 Avhether the closely related Cupressowinus had its ventral side 

 firmly closed, Angelin's figure, PI. VIII. Fig. 6, ought to remove 

 it. There seems to be in Crotalocrinus not only a solid integu- 

 ment covering the entire ventral disc and inclosing the hydro- 

 spires, but we judge from Fig. 7 of the preceding plate, that the 

 oral centre or median space between the hydrospires had even a 

 double covering. 



It seems to us that there can scarcely be a doubt but that the 

 consolidating plates of Cyathocrinus (PI. 17, Fig. 2) are homo- 

 logous with the oral plates of the Pentacrinoid larva (PI. 17, Fi<j\ 

 1), and ought to be designated as such; and further, that the 

 so-called consolidating plates of Cupressocrinus are the homo- 

 logues of the deltoid pieces of the Blastoids (PI. 17, Fig. 4). 

 It will be seen that all four occupy the same relative position in 

 the respective types. There are five interradial plates, which join 

 at their sides, extending inward, but so as to leave an opening at 

 the oral centre. The affinities, indeed, are so striking that we 

 think it not unreasonable to suppose that the ln'drospires are 

 metamorphosed oral plates. The construction of the deltoid 

 pieces is very complicated, only the median or deltoid portion 

 being visible externally. Thej' are extended laterally, in spade- 

 shaped appendages (PI. 17, Fig. 4), which pass under the am. 

 bulacral fields and are hidden by them. To these appendages the 

 folds of the hydrospires are attached, being suspended on each 

 side of the ambulacrum, or modified arm, and partly covered by 




2o6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



it. In the so-called consolidating plates of Cupressocrinus we 

 find precisely the same structure. Each plate has lateral exten- 

 sions, each of which supports a set of folds which incline in op- 

 posite directions. The number of folds varies in different species, 

 Cupressocrinus abbreviates having apparent! j r seven, and C. gra- 

 cilis but two or three, and so in the Blastoids, Pentremites pyri- 

 formis has seven folds and P. Godoni but five. As the folds of 

 two different plates are not connected laterally, a sort of depres- 

 sion or groove is formed in a radial direction, which evidently 

 contained the food passage, covering the sutures between the 

 plates as the pseudambulacral folds cover those of the deltoid 

 pieces in the Blastoids. The so-called consolidating plates with 

 their folds, of Cupressocrinus, and the deltoid pieces with their 

 appended hydrospires in Blastoids, being not only analogous 

 in position but also almost identical ih structure, it is very evi- 

 dent that they had .a similar office in the animal organism, and 

 that if these organs in Blastoids were respiratory, the hydrospires 

 in Cupressocrinus and Crotalocrinus had the same functions. 



This view r of the relations of the parts under consideration sug- 

 gests a possible analogy in the general structure of Blastoids and 

 Paleocrinoids, in which we may consider that the ambulacrum 

 is a recumbent arm ; the lower part of the forked plate up to the 

 ambulacrum is the first radial in Blastoidocrinus, the oldest 

 known Blastoid,the suture is visible that the two sides of the fork, 

 instead of being interradial, form together a second radial, and 

 the small summit plates are homologous with those which cover 

 the central opening between the oral plates in Cyathocrinus, or to 

 the entire vault in the Actinocrinidas, etc., in which the oral plates 

 do not exist at least not externally. The food groove and ambu- 

 lacral canal are located upon the pseudambulacral fold, which 

 represents the ventral groove in the arms of the Crinoids, and are 

 likewise covered by two rows of alternating plates. If these 

 homologies be correct, it is evident that there is a much closer 

 relation between Paleocrinoids and Blastoids in fundamental 

 structure than has been heretofore supposed, and as we find in the 

 former the representatives both of parallel tubes and folded sacs, 

 it is eyident that their hj'drospires are constructed upon a cysti- 

 dean and blastoidean plan combined. 



We have now noticed the principal forms in which these organs 

 have been observed; there are, however, a large number of forms 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



in which no trace of them has as yet been discovered. These in- 

 clude among others the Ichthyocrinidse, and a few genera of the 

 Ar/fnocrinidse and Cyathocrinidae. In the Ichthyocrinidse, respi- 

 ration may have been carried on through the pliant vault, aided 

 by the expansions and contractions which the flexible nature of 

 the skeleton could produce. In the Actinocrinidse, however, the 

 body, as in the Blastoids, is perfectly rigid, the plates heavy and 

 firmty cemented together. There are no other openings in the 

 body but the anal aperture, the arm passages, a passage through 

 the column and the pores between the arm bases which we have 

 described. In some genera, however, the last-named pores appa- 

 rently do not exist. The introduction of water through the anal 

 tube need not be considered for a moment, nor through the arms, 

 which in no group of the Echinoderms perform such an office. Let 

 us examine the column. 



The construction of the column varies in different genera. It 

 is perforated throughout the centre by a passage connecting with 

 the interior of the body, which in some cases is a simple, small, 

 round opening, while in others it is very large and marked by a 

 peculiarly complicated internal structure. In the latter, the tubu- 

 lar cavity extends to all the branches which spring off rather 

 numerously toward the root. It is mostly pentamerous, though 

 in some cases tri- or quadri-partite ; it is sometimes regularly pen- 

 tagonal, and sometimes divided into five petaloid chambers which 

 unite at the centre. The walls within appear as if built up of thin 

 lamina?, with spaces between, sometimes pectinated, and variously 

 sculptured, all producing a great multiplication of exposed sur- 

 faces. In some the articulating faces of the stem segments are 

 covered with striae, radiating from the centre, which resemble 

 minute pores penetrating the walls. We have found the very base 

 of one of these large columns just as it was attached to the rock 

 or other flat surface. It is very broad and deeply channelled on 

 the bottom, and there are numerous branches or unattached cyrrhi, 

 all of which are perforated, and through which there was ample 

 communication with the surrounding water. In addition to this, 

 there are large pores near the base of the column, leading from with- 

 out into the main cavity directly through the walls. 



Such an extraordinary structure was not necessary, if the column 

 was merely an attachment or anchor for the Crinoid. That it was 

 a means of communication between the water outside and the in- 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



ternal organs of the body for some purpose we entertain no doubt, 

 and the large amount of surface exposed by means of the complex 

 lamellar structure, is strongly suggestive of the principle which 

 prevails in the respiratory apparatus in the animal kingdom gener- 

 ally. We have said that some Actinocrinid&s probably do not 

 possess the pores in the body. It is very significant that it is in 

 these very forms thatwe find columns such as we have just described. 

 Indeed, in general, so far as we have been able to observe, we have 

 found it to be the rule, that those types which have a perforated 

 ventral sac are without pores in the calyx; that those with caly- 

 cine pores do not possess a perforated ventral sac, and that in 

 forms with a flexible vault, or with perforated ventral sac, or with 

 pores in the body walls, the column is generally destitute of any 

 such complex structure, and has only a small, simple aperture. 

 There may be exceptions to this ; in fact we know of some, but 

 these relate exclusively to veiy large species, in which the open- 

 ings in the main body, which we suppose to be respirator}' pas- 

 sages, are inadequate to supply the immense body. The most re- 

 markable examples of this kind are Megistocrinus and Barycrinus. 

 The former, which belongs to the Actinocrinidae, has species with 

 larger bodily capacity than has been discovered in any other genus. 

 It has generally only ten primary arms, and most probably only 

 ten respiratory pores in the body. Barycrinus attains by far the 

 greatest size of the Cyathocrinidee, and the column of this genus 

 like that of Megistocrinus is not only very strong, but its central 

 cavit} r is exceedingly large and complicated. We thus have in 

 these two genera apparently another mode of communication from 

 the outside, which may have been either a cause or an effect of 

 their extreme size. 



All these facts have led us to suppose that the column was in 

 some cases, and perhaps more or less in the Paleocrinoids gener- 

 ally, subservient to respiration. This supposition would not only 

 account for the complicated structure of the column where it ex- 

 its, but furnish a plausible explanation as to how the introduction 

 of water was effected in species in which apparently no other open- 

 ings are present. 



With these observations, which we hope will at least be sug- 

 gestive of some interesting points, and perhaps stimulate more 

 detailed observation, we pass to another matter of considerable 

 importance as bearing upon classification. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



Prof. P. Herbert Carpenter, in a valuable paper (Quarterly Journ. 

 Microscop. Sci., vol. xviii (new series), p. 351), on the "Oral and 

 Apical Systems of the Eehinoderms," undertakes to determine the 

 homologies between that system of plates in the calcareous skele- 

 ton of the Echini known as apical plates, and certain parts of the 

 calyx of Crinoids, both recent and fossil. He considers the basals 

 of recent Crinoids to be homologous to the genital plates, and the 

 radial s to the ocular plates of the Echini, and he traces the homo- 

 logy to the Paloeocrinoidea, in respect to which, however, he ad- 

 vances the opinion that the first ring of plates resting upon the 

 upper stem segment, which have heretofore been nominated 

 "basals" are in many types not basals at all. He regards the set 

 of plates which lie next below the radials as the true "basals," no 

 matter whether they rest directly upon the stem, as in Platycrin us, 

 or are separated from it by another ring of plates, as in Cyalho- 

 crinus; so that the "subradials" of most American authors, or 

 "parabasals" as they are generally termed in Europe, are "basals" 

 according to his view. The lowest or proximal ring of plates, in 

 types having "subradials," he calls "underbasals," and these he 

 believes to be unrepresented in the other types of Crinoids and all 

 other Eehinoderms. The central plate of the apical system, re- 

 presented by the central disk or subanal plate of the Echini, is 

 thought by Carpenter to be the homologue of the terminal joint 

 at the base of the stem in all pedunculated Crinoids, and in the 

 Pentacrinoid larva of Comatula, and of the central plate in Mar- 

 supite*. 



In several respects these views conflict with those of A. Agassiz 

 and Loven, who regard the subanal plate of the Echini as the 

 homologue of the centro-dorsal plate of Comatula; and both these 

 as representing the "basals" of the Crinoids, by which term they 

 designate the first ring of plates above the stem in all types. They 

 consider the single plate in the apical system of the Echini as the 

 equivalent of the basalia of the Crinoids metamorphosed into one. 

 Carpenter's reasoning in regard to the basal plates is, that, as 

 the genitals in the Echini, and the basals in most Paleocrinoids, 

 which are generally considered to be their homologues, are situated 

 interradially with regard to the general symmetry of the tyxly, 

 we must expect to find the genitals in Paleocrinoids in the same 

 relative position ; and that in forms like Cyathocrinus, which have 

 two rings of plates below the radials, the lower or proximal plates 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



are situated in line with the radials, and hence cannot be the true 

 basals. He holds that the same order of plates cannot be radial 

 in one genus and interradial in another. This argument is un- 

 questionably a very strong one, and we are enabled to confirm it 

 by a number of interesting observations. 



Let us consider the first ring of plates resting upon the upper 

 stem joint in Crinoids, where it consists of less than five, as a 

 metamorphosed representative of a set of five plates, in which two 

 or more have been united by anchylosis. It will be observed 

 that in nearly all types with but one ring of plates below the 

 radials, i.e., forms without "subradials," the proximal ring is so 

 placed that the angles alternate with those of the radials, so that 

 the whole set, whether five plates or not, may very appropriately 

 be considered as interradial with regard to the general structure 

 of the body. 



In forms like Platycrinux, Symbathocrinus, etc., in which the 

 radials rest directly upon a basal disc composed of three unequal 

 plates, if we bisect the two larger, we obtain five equal plates, 

 which occup}^ an interradial position. This is actually done in 

 Belemnocrinus, which in the apical system has the identical struc- 

 ture of Bhizocrinus, and most of the i*ecent Crinoids, viz., five 

 basals, interradially situated, supporting five radials. 



In 3Ielocrinas and Eucalyptocrinits, where the proximal ring 

 consists of four plates, we may divide the larger one and thus 

 obtain five plates, which, though not wholly regular in form, are 

 all interradial in position. 



In Actinocrinus which has three equal plates in the basal disc, 

 and Dichocrinus which has two, and allied genera, an apparent 

 difficulty is presented, for if we subdivide these plates we have 

 six basals instead of five. But here the structure is precisely the 

 same in principle as in the foregoing cases. The six plates are 

 interradial in position, and the presence of the anal plate in the 

 same range with the first radials necessitates an additional plate 

 in the basal ring for its support, so that the two plates which sup- 

 port it are equivalent to one. The anal plates are actually nothing 

 more than an interradial series with a special function, viz., the 

 support of the anal apparatus within the body, and of an opening 

 in the vault, which may be either directly through the test, or 

 prolonged into a tube. In some of the Ichthyocrinidee, the anal 

 is not distinguishable from any interradial series. The presence 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



of the anal series as an element in the structure of many Paleo- 

 crinoids, may be largely clue to the solid dome, which has to be 

 penetrated by a special aperture, requiring some modification of 

 the general structure below to accommodate it. It seems to have 

 no direct representative in the apical system of the recent Echino- 

 derms, but we may be justified in considering it as a specialized 

 interradial, and in that case the basals of the forms under con- 

 sideration are found to conform entirely to Carpenter's interpre- 

 tation, being interradially disposed. We find a most interesting 

 confirmation of this view in a specimen of Actinocrinus (Sfroto- 

 crinus) umbrosus, which has abnormally no first anal plate, the 

 first radials joining at their sides. The anal series in form and 

 proportions is very similar. to the other interradials, being chiefly 

 distinguished by having three plates in the second range instead 

 of two, as in the others. Accordingly, we find the basal disc in 

 this specimen reduced to three unequal plates, and if we bisect 

 the two larger, we obtain five equal plates, interradially situated, 

 just as in Platycrinus. Nature herself, in this isolated specimen, 

 has thus beautifully illustrated our argument. It is well to note 

 in this connection that in Platycrinus, and all genera with three 

 unequal plates in the proximal ring, the small plate is never, so far 

 as we have observed, on the anal side, and this is the case with 

 the abnormal specimen above described, the small plate being 

 situated below the suture of the left posterior and lateral rays. 

 Why this is so we are as yet unable to explain. 



In forms like Gyathocrinas, Rhodocrinus, etc., which have two 

 rings of five plates each, the proximal plates are radially situated, 

 and, therefore, according to Carpenter, cannot be basals or homo- 

 logous to the genitals, but the second ring of plates or "subradials," 

 being interradial in position, are the true basals and the homolo- 

 gues of the genitals. If, now, we examine those types with two 

 rings below the radials, in which the proximal ring consists of less 

 than five plates, we shall find his idea still further confirmed. 



In the Ichthyocrinidse (except Calpiocrinus?) which have in 

 the proximal ring three unequal plates, they are so proportioned 

 and so situated that if we divide them by two additional sutures 

 into five about equal plates, these fine will be radially situated, and 

 exactly equivalent to the corresponding set of plates in Gyatho- 

 crinus. In Gissocrinus, one of Angelin's Upper Silurian genera 

 from Gotland, which is in every other respect a true Cyathocri- 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



nus, there are but three unequal plates in the proximal ring, show- 

 ing here an actual metamorphosis of five plates into three. 



In Cupressocrinus, which has a single central plate below the 

 " subradials," pierced by the quadripartite perforation of the 

 column, it might at first seem difficult to subdivide the proximal 

 plate in this manner. But it will be noted that it is really radial 

 in position, since its five external angles alternate with those of 

 the "subradials," and furthermore, we find that nature has done 

 it for us in a precisely similar case. Myrlillocrinus, whose base is 

 perforated by a quadrangular foramen, has its proximal ring 

 divided into five small pieces, alternating with "subradials" and 

 hence radial in position, (loth New York Regents' Rep., p. 142.) 



It is worthy of note that in the form last discussed those with 

 two rings below the radials the proximal plates are almost in- 

 variably very small, and in many cases so minute as to be hidden 

 by the column, thus in their insignificance affording an argument 

 against comparing them with the genitals. They seem to be early 

 developed, for they are as large in the j'oung as in the adult, and 

 do not show much increase in proportions in later geological 

 epochs. I 



In some Gyalhocrinidse, the proximal ring sometimes attains con- 

 siderable proportionate size, and it seems to have developed in 

 geological time, for we find in the Lower Silurian genus Hetero- 

 crinus that this set of plates is represented in an extremely rudi- 

 mentary stage, being only faintly visible between the sutures of 

 the basals "subradials" and these plates seem to be minute in 

 most similar Silurian genera. Yet it must not be overlooked that 

 in many cases where the proximal plates are scarcely visible ex- 

 ternally, they are quite prominent internally, often larger than the 

 " subradials." This is especially the case in forms with a concave 

 base. 



In most genera with one ring of plates below the radials, the 

 proximal plates are large and prominent, contrasting in a marked 

 degree with the proximal plates in the two forms last considered. 



There are a few genera, anomalous in structure, which cannot, 

 with our present knowledge of them, be satisfactorily brought 

 within the above comparison such as Calceocrinus, Gatillocri- 

 nus, Pisocrinus, and perhaps others. 



The Blastoids, with their uniform arrangement of plates, agree 




18T9.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 243 



well with Carpenter's interpretation, the three basals being 

 divisible into five plates interradially arranged. 



All these facts seem to indicate that the "subradials," in genera 

 where the}' exist, are really the basals, and in such simple forms 

 as Cyathocrinus, it seems very reasonable to consider these plates 

 as the homolognes of the genitals, and the radials as the ocular 

 plates in the apical system of the Echini. In more complex forms, 

 such as the Actinocrinidse, Rhodocrinidx. Ichthyocrinidse, etc., 

 there would seem at first to be an objection to this interpretation, 

 arising from the fact that there are several other orders of plates, 

 both radial and interradial, within the body walls, and that in these 

 cases, as in Cyathocrinidee, we should find the homologues of the 

 apical plates of the Echini in the entire calyx, or the whole series 

 of plates of the aboral side up to the region of the arms, and not in 

 the two rings alone which Carpenter points out as such; in other 

 words, that the apical plates in the Echini cannot be homologized 

 with some few plates in the calyx of Paloeocrinoidea. 



In the younger stages of Paleocrinoids, the higher series of 

 radials are unconnected by interradial or axillary plates, as may 

 be seen most beautifully illustrated in the growth of Strotocrinus} 



It is also probable that at a still earlier period in the life of 

 these Crinoids, the second and third primary radials constituted 

 a free raj', as in the more simply constructed Gyathocrinus. In 

 Actinocrinus, etc., the basals, which according to Carpenter are 

 homologous to the "subradials" in other families, and the genitals 

 in Echini, develop very early in the young, and attain almost their 

 full size when even the first radials are comparatively much smaller. 

 We have in our possession a Cynthocrnnus, not more than half an 

 inch in length including the arms and a portion of the column, in 

 which, while the proximal plates are comparatively small, the so- 

 called " subradials" are developed to an extraordinary degree, far 

 more than the radials. The specimen in this stage looks remark- 

 ably like Billing's Lower Silurian genus Hybocrinus, in which the 

 first interradial ring of plates is enormously prominent and gib- 

 bous, while the proximal ring is apparently wanting, or if it exists, 

 is very minute. 



1 See our paper on " Transition forms in Crinoids," Proceed. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Philad., 1878, p. 233, and also pp. 229-235 for illustrations of develop- 

 ment in the parts in question in successive epochs. 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



It is now a very important fact that these two rings of plates . 

 the first radial s and the interradial set of plates next below them 

 are the only ones which are found in all Crinoids from the 

 earliest geological ages to the present time. It thus appears that 

 the evidence derived from the embryology of the Pentacrinoid, 

 and the observed mode and order of development in the Paleo- 

 crinoids during individual life, is fully and beautifully confirmed 

 by the geological history of Crinoids. 



All this evidence seems to us to be conclusive, and to prove 

 satisfactorily that the two rings of plates regarded by Carpenter 

 as genitals and oculars, are the fundamental parts in the aboral 

 side of the calcareous skeleton, and that the subsequent orders of 

 radials and interradials are to be considered as supplementary to 

 them, and as the products of growth in the individual and develop- 

 ment in geological time. 



Our conclusions being thus in harmony with Prof. Carpenter's 

 views, we think it both logical and expedient to adopt his terms, 

 and call the first ring of plates below the radials " basals" in all 

 cases, and the second ring below, or the proximal plates when 

 there are two rings, " underbasals," thus discontinuing the term 

 " subradials'' altogether. 



We cannot, however, agree with Carpenter in supposing, as he 

 does, p. 374, that the underbasals have no representative in the 

 apical S3'stem of other Crinoids or Echinoderms. We incline to 

 the opinion of Agassiz, Loven, and others, that the}- are homolo- 

 gous with the central disc or su banal plate of the Echini, and 

 with the centro-dorsal plate of Gomatula. In the paleozoic genus 

 Jgassizocrinus, which was evidently pedunculate in its earlier 

 stages, but became a freefloater when mature, we find in the proxi- 

 mal ring in young specimens five plates with a central perforation 

 in the disc, and a distinct articulating scar for the attachment of 

 the column. In the free stages, however, every trace of the cen- 

 tral foramen and of the columnar attachment has disappeared, and 

 in most of the specimens not even a vestige of the sutures 

 formerh/ existing between the plates can be detected. In some 

 they can still be faintly observed, but only near the edges upon 

 which the succeeding plates rest, and not in the median portion of 

 the disc. Another example of this is seen in Edriocrinus (New 

 York Geol. Rep., vol. iii. pp. 119-20) in which the bodies are 

 when young attached to each, other or to other solid bodies, and 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



in maturity become free, and a calcareous deposit is secreted around 

 the base, which covers and obliterates the sutures between the 

 plates. Here again we have an actual metamorphosis during the 

 life of the individual of five plates into one, and this seems to us 

 to be strongly confirmatory of the views of Agassiz and Loven. 

 We are inclined to think that the plate within the ring of under- 

 basals when it exists, as in Marsupites, represents the column 

 of Crinoids generally. 



Having thus discussed the relations and distinctions between 

 some groups of the Crinoids and the differences between the 

 Palseocrinoidea and the Stomatocrinoidea so we should like to 

 call all Crinoids which have an external mouth we think it pro- 

 per to indicate briefly the principles which we shall endeavor to 

 follow in our more detailed work. 



Classification. 



In attempting to make a sj^stematic classification of the Paleo- 

 crinoids into families and genera, we encounter the difficulties 

 which usually confront us when we undertake to ascertain and 

 define any divisions as they exist in nature. We can readily re- 

 cognize in groups of fossils certain broad characters by which it 

 seems natural and satisfactory to bring them together, and we 

 generally find in the characteristic types of the respective groups 

 an association of other characters, by which they appear sharply 

 marked ; and so long as we have to deal with typical forms in 

 isolated specimens or groups, the work is simple enough. But 

 when we begin to investigate large collections, and in a measure 

 to stud}' comparatively all the known material from specimens or 

 descriptions, we find the subject bristling with perplexing ques- 

 tions. Types are found to shade into one another, characters are 

 commingled through processes of transition, which sadly inter- 

 fere with the nice definitions we think we have worked out. How 

 to deal with such forms has always been a troublesome question 

 with naturalists, and the diverse methods of treating it have given 

 rise to much confusion. We have found it especially perplexing 

 in endeavoring to define the genera of the Crinoids. We find for 

 instance, two groups, each embracing a number of species, and we 

 discover general characters which nicel}* separate them. Further 

 researches presently reveal to us certain forms, including perhaps 




24G PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



several species, which, while agreeing with one group in most of 

 the characters, persistently differ from it in some one feature, and 

 perhaps in this feature the}' agree with the other group. The 

 question then arises, what is to be done in cases where there are 

 aberrant forms, departing from one type in the direction of another, 

 and blending the characters of the two? Are we to say that our 

 groupings are worthless, and the two must be thrown into one? 

 This produces confusion, and stands in the way of systematic 

 study; and besides we will then probably be no nearer the truth, 

 for we shall doubtless find a similar relation between the group 

 thus formed and some other, which will demand a similar consoli- 

 dation. On the other hand, shall we stand by the distinctions we 

 have discovered, and range our transitional or aberrant forms into 

 subgroups by themselves, and designate them by proper appella- 

 tions? We are clearly of the opinion that the latter, judiciously 

 pursued, is the true course, both with regard to convenience of 

 study, and to facilitate the discovery of a natural classification. 

 Without entering into any discussion of the value of these or any 

 other groups as expressions of actual divisions in nature, we pro- 

 pose to adopt this method of ti^eattnent, and to recognize sub- 

 genera or subgroups of whatever dignity, as the facts may seem 

 to warrant. In so doing we find it decidedly preferable to give 

 each group a name by itself, and consider it as standing alone in 

 its proper rank, and not to name it parenthetically as a mere 

 adjunct to the parent group. If we err on the side of too narrow 

 distinctions, this will only lead to renewed researches and ulti- 

 mately to the truth. 



By adopting this course we are also enabled to retain many 

 generic names founded upon good characters as revealed to the 

 authors by the material at their command, and thus give to many 

 investigators deserved credit for work which would otherwise have 

 to be wholly ignored. 



We have in some cases found it necessary to revise and recon- 

 struct the genus in order to bring, if possible, some order out of 

 the confusion into which its literature had fallen. In doing this 

 we have endeavored to give effect to the evident intention of the 

 founder of the genus, and to improve the diagnosis by the aid of 

 more extensive material than he had access to, as well as by the 

 aid of the labors of other investigators. 



It will be well in this connection to point out the structural dis- 




1879/] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



tinctions which we regard as important in the separation of families 

 and genera. On a former page we have alluded to the dome, which 

 we believe affords excellent characters for separation into families. 

 The general plan upon which it is constructed, whether rigid or 

 flexible, composed of movable or immovable plates; with large 

 oral plates, or covered with numerous small pieces; whether pro- 

 vided with a ventral sac; the location of the anus; all of these 

 in our opinion form good family distinctions. Next to the vault 

 must be considered the general construction of the calyx; the 

 elements of which it consists; whether it has a subbasal zone; the 

 presence or absence of interradials as a rule; whether the animal 

 was pedunculate or free floating; and last but not least, the struc- 

 ture and position of the respiratory organs. 



Among the best generic characters in these Crinoids, we find the 

 following: The general form of the body; the distribution and 

 arrangement of the different plates, both in the vault and in tlie 

 calyx, particularly the plates of the anal area and their propor- 

 tions ; the form and position of the apical dome plates, the posi- 

 tion of the anus and whether consisting of a proboscis or simple 

 opening ; the form of the column, the shape and proportional size 

 of its central passage; the construction of the arms and pinnulae. 



The arms and pinnulae of the Paheocrinoidea have not received 

 the attention which they deserve, at least not as to their generic 

 importance. A careful study of these organs, as they occur in 

 different genera, has convinced us, that not only the arms, but 

 also the pinnulae, in their variation, in their presence or absence, 

 afford generic characters. Only of late years has attention been 

 drawn to the ambulacral groove of the arm, when it was shown 

 from actual observation that in some genera the furrow is covered 

 by small plates alternately arranged. Meek and Worthen describe 

 the arms of Symbathocrinus as being covered by two rows of 

 single plates, arranged in alternation, and a similar structure has 

 been discovered to exist in the arms of Crotalocrinus and Enal- 

 locrinus. In Gupressocrinus, according to Schultze, the furrow 

 is braced over like a roof. In Cyathocrinus Iowensis, according 

 to Wachsmuth, and apparently in Gissocrinus, Angelin, the furrow 

 is covered by two rows of two successive plates, the plates of one 

 row alternating with those of the other. In Cyathocrinus longi- 

 manus, Angl. (Iconogr. Crin. PI. 2G, Figs. 4, 5), there are in place 

 of only two, a series of five successive plates from each side, 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



alternately arranged. The plates of each side taper toward the 

 end and infold over the furrow, covering it as perfectly, and in 

 the same manner as in the two former cases. Angelin gives no 

 description, but in his table of contents, he calls the successive 

 plates from each side " pinnulse." 



It is easily seen that the covering to which we refer in the above- 

 mentioned genera, is constructed upon exactly the same principle. 

 It makes but little difference whether there are two single plates 

 or two rows of plates alternating with each other, and it seems 

 evident to us that if in one case they represent pinnulse, we may 

 well consider them to be the same in the other. It is here im- 

 portant to note that in those genera in which the ambulacral groove 

 is thus covered, no regular pinnules have ever been observed, and 

 moreover the construction is such that no additional pinnulse could 

 have existed; while on the other hand no covering has ever been 

 discovered in forms with true pinnulse. From our observation 

 we are of opinion that the pinnulse generally in the Palaeocrinoidea 

 served partly as a cover or protection for the furrow. In a speci- 

 men of Graphiocrinus tortuos'ts, Hall, in our collection, the pin- 

 nulse cover the furrow so perfectly that we were for some time led 

 to consider them as a solid integument composed of regular spi- 

 niferous plates. With a good magnifier, however, we clearly de- 

 tected the joints of the pinnulse, which are here so placed that 

 the little spines with which their sides a;-e provided stand up erect. 

 In the Actwocrinidse and Platycrinidse the pinnulse are long, com- 

 paratively slender, and so closely arranged side b} r side that it 

 appears as if they were connected laterally, which we think is 

 realty the case in some groups. When the arms are closed, the 

 two series of pinnulse of one arm are laid upon each other so 

 neatly, that the arm furrow must have been thereby perfectly shut 

 off from the surrounding water. No additional covering has yet 

 been observed in these genera, and it was evidently unnecessaiy. 



All this seems to point to the conclusion that the pinnulse had 

 the same functions, partly at least, as the alternate plates in Gya- 

 thocrinus, etc., and as both have the same position, and evidently 

 could be opened and closed by the animal, we do not hesitate to 

 consider the latter as the homologue of the former, or in fact as 

 rudimentary pinnulse. 




1879.] natural sciences op philadelphia. 249 



Terminology, etc. 



There is considerable confusion in the literature of Crinoids 

 even among contemporaneous writers as to the terms emploj'ed 

 to designate the different parts of the animal. It is to be regret- 

 ted that there is not some means of establishing uniformity in this 

 respect, as this would no doubt promote better results in investi- 

 gation. We believe it to be especially desirable, and for the in- 

 terest of science, that there should be a better understanding on 

 this subject between Zoologists and Paleontologists, so that the 

 same terms ma} 7 be used, so far as possible, for similar parts in 

 both fossil and living forms. We will not assume to say how this 

 should be brought about, but would be glad to see it undertaken 

 by those of more experience and authority in both fields. 



To avoid misunderstanding of our work we give herewith a list 

 of the principal terms employed, with the definitions as under- 

 stood and used by us. We do not seek so much to introduce new 

 terms as to select the best in" our judgment of those already 

 known to our branch of science, and then to use them consistently. 



Explanation of Terms. 



Boot = extremity of column, where attached. 



Gyrrhi = radicular appendages, springing from the periphery of 

 column joints, or in Comatula from the centro-dorsal plate. 



Column or stem = jointed cylindrical structure below the body. 



Body = the frame of the animal, excluding column and arms. 



Test = the calcareous shell inclosing the internal organs. 



Calyx = the dorsal cup, or the test of the abactinal or dorsal side 

 up to the arms = aboral side. 



Vault, dome, summit = the test above the arms ; the plated cover- 

 ing on the ventral side = oral side = actinal side. 



Ventral sac = vertical extension of the vault in its posterior area, 

 closed at the extremity. 



Anal tube or proboscis = posterior vertical elongation of the vault, 

 with anal opening at its extremity. The term " proboscis" is 

 so generally used that we feel compelled to retain it, although 

 there is a serious objection to its use. The word implies that* 

 it is an oral organ used for feeding, which is, beyond the 

 slightest doubt, directly contrary to the fact. 

 17 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



Posterior side = the anal side of the body. 



Anterior side = the side opposite the anal area. 



Bight or left = viewed from the posterior side. 



Rays = the whole collective succession of plates from the first 

 radial up. 



Free rays = radial extensions of the body unconnected b} r inter- 

 radial plates. 



Arms = radial extensions or branches from the body with a fur- 

 rOw on the ventral side. 



Pinnules = small, jointed, solid appendages, alternately arranged 

 along the arms. 



Tentacles = soft prehensile organs along the ambulacral furrow 

 of the arms and pinnules. 



Ambulacral furrow = groove on the ventral side of the arms and 

 pinnules, containing ambulacral canal and food passages. 



Proximal plates = those next to the column. 



Underbasals = the second ring of plates below the radials, here- 

 tofore called " basals" = pelvis of European authors. 



Basals = the first ring of plates below the radials, interradially 

 disposed, equivalent to " subradials" and " parabasals," botli 

 of which terms are discontinued by us. 



Radials all the plates of the body above the basals, radially 

 situated. 



Primary radials = those in the rays below the first bifurcation. 



Secondary radials = those between the first and second bifurca- 

 tion. 



Tertiary radials = those between the second and third bifurcation 

 (and so on up to the arms). 



Brachials = free radial plates supporting the arms. In our former 

 descriptions we have used the term " brachials" for that series 

 of radial plates within the body walls which leads to an arm 

 opening following Hall and others. Finding, however, that 

 this term has been previously applied to the " free radials" by 

 Johannes Miiller, and has been adopted by Roemer, Schultze, 

 and the zoologists generally, we propose to discontinue it as 

 applied to the former plates, which hereafter will be desig- 

 nated simply as radials of their respective orders. 



Interradials = plates between the rays and forming a part of the 

 body. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



Axillary plates = plates between the divisions of the rays = in- 

 tersupravadials of Hall and other authors. 



Interbrachials = plates between the arm openings of each ray. 

 This term is not strictly correct, when taken in connection 

 with our definition of "brachials," but it has been long used 

 in this sense, and as no confusion is likely to arise, we think 

 it best to retain it. 



Anals = the series of interradial plates which support the anal 

 opening or tube. 



Apical dome plates = the system of plates in the vault which oc- 

 cupy a position analogous to that of the apical plates of the 

 calyx. They consist: 1, of a central plate at the apex of the 

 dome ; 2, of five large plates (there are generally four large 

 and two small ones, the two latter equivalent to one, being 

 separated by the anal area), arranged around the apex, inter- 

 radially disposed, and corresponding to the first radials; 3, 

 of five radial dome plates, alternating with the last, and corres- 

 ponding to the first radials. Wachsmuth, Ainer. J-ourn. Sci., 

 Sept. 1877, p. 187, called the first seven of these plates "api- 

 cal plates." This must be changed to avoid confusion, as the 

 genitals and oculars of Echini are designated by the same 

 term. We now apply the term " apical dome plates" to the 

 whole system of principal vault pieces. These plates, which 

 have no representation in the structure of the Stomatocrinoidea 

 nor Echini, exist in a greatly reduced form in the Blastoids, 

 but are specially characteristic of the Actinocrinidae, Platy- 

 criuidae, etc. The single plate at the apex we propose to call 

 the central dome plates ; the first ring of interradials surround- 

 ing it, the proximal dome plates, and the next ring radially 

 situated, the radial dome plates. 



Oral plates = large interradial plates, covering in form of a pyra- 

 mid the oral side of the Pentacrinoid larva (Wyville Thomson 

 and Carpenter) = consolidating plates in Cyathocrinus 

 (Wachsmuth) = deltoid pieces in Blastoidea. The term " con- 

 solidating plates" is discontinued. 



Hydrospires = certain organic structures in connection with the 

 inner walls of the test, composed of parallel tubes or folded 

 sacs, probably in connection with the water system. 



Respiratory pores or orifices = openings through the test, in 

 connection with the hydrospires, apparently for the introduc- 

 tion of water for respiratory purposes. 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



In the discussion of the different genera, we shall give with each 

 a full list of the species which belong to it, in our opinion, inde- 

 pendent of the opinion of others, and this will cause many changes 

 in the reference of species. It cannot be expected that these lists 

 will be free from mistakes, though we have studied each species 

 with great care, the majority of them from the specimens, and be- 

 sides our own extensive collections, one of us had occasion a few 

 years ago to examine the original collections of De Konnick and 

 Schultze, now in theMuseum of Comparative Zoology at Cambridge. 

 Nor can it be expected that iu a general work on Crinoids like this, 

 we shall give a full list of synonyms, and we have not attempted 

 to do so. This can only be thoroughly done by the collector who 

 has given his attention for years to the fossils of his own locality, 

 and is able to identify them from the least fragment. We shall 

 give the synonyms of the subcarboniferous Crinoids of the Mis- 

 sissippi Valley which we have made our special study, and we 

 hope that investigators will do the same for other localities and 

 formations. We shall feel under special obligations to any of our 

 scientific friends for any information they may be able to furnish 

 us, either in the way of specimens or observations which may con- 

 tribute to a more thorough understanding and truthful presenta- 

 tion of the subject. We particularly desire this, as we intend to 

 embody the results of all our investigations in this field in a future 

 work to be issued with ample illustrations. 



We take this opportunity to tender our thanks to Prof. A. 

 Agassiz, of Cambridge; Prof. A. H. Worthen, of Illinois; Prof. 

 S. H. Calvin, of Iowa City; Prof. A. Gr. Wetherb}^, of Cincinnati; 

 Dr. James Knapp, of Louisville; Dr. Harrod, of Canton; Dr. K. 

 Zittel, of Munich; Dr. F. Roemer, of Breslau; and to Prof. Traut- 

 schold, of Moscow, Russ., for valuable assistance courteously ex- 

 tended to us in the loan of books or specimens. 



Note. Species founded upon mere fragments of column are not 

 recognized by us, and their names are enumerated only in the 

 list of s3 r noii3^ms and doubtful species. 



All species marked in front with an * are referred to said genus 

 for the first time. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



PAL^EOCRINOIDEA. 



A SUBORDER OF THE CRINOIDEA. 



Body, as compared with recent Crinoids, larger; arms shorter; 

 test stronger. The latter is arranged on various plans, but is 

 alwa}-s composed of solid plates of which the interradials, in con- 

 trast to the Stomatocrinoidea, constitute important elements. 

 Plates of the aboral or dorsal side forming a cup, closed on the 

 ventral or oral side by a more or less solid integument, without 

 external food grooves or oral aperture. 



The food conve} r ed through openings at the base of the arms into 

 the body, and carried to the oral centre by means of internal or 

 subtegminal passages. Anus either in form of a plated tube or a 

 simple opening, subcentral or lateral. 



The introduction of water for respiratory purposes seems to 

 have been effected through small openings or pores which penetrate 

 the test. These openings, which in some groups were located in 

 the oral, in others in the aboral regions, seem to have been con- 

 nected with peculiar organs within the body, closely resembling 

 the so-called hydrospires of Cystideans and Blastoids. 



The Paleocrinoids, with but few exceptions, were pedunculate, 

 attached during lifetime. Flourishing abundantly in the Silurian 

 seas, they reach their climax in the Subcarboniferous, as well in 

 variety of form as in number of individuals, and they disappear 

 almost entirely during the Carboniferous, few forms, if any, sur- 

 viving as late as Mezozoic times. 



'o 



Family I. ICHTHYOCRINIDiE. 



(Diagram PI. 15, Fig. 1.) 



General form of the body including arms, globose to pyriform. 

 Column strong, perforation of medium size, generally pentangular. 



Underbasals three, of unequal size ; always small, often rudi- 

 mentary and not visible externally, being hidden by the column. 

 Basals five, moderately small, sometimes scarcely appearing be- 

 yond the column (in Calpiocrinus probably absent or imperfectly 

 developed). Primary radials, three to five by five, almost equal 

 in form and size. Radials of each order smaller by half than those 

 of the preceding, and of uniform size. Arms bifurcating, short, 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



strong, tapering upward, the tips infolding; composed of single 

 joints. Pinnulae unknown. In most of the genera, the arms lie 

 side by side touching laterally, so as to form with the calyx an 

 apparently compact wall. Radial and arm plates frequently have 

 undulating sutures or additional patelloid plates. The radials up 

 to the second or even the third order form a part of the body, 

 being connected laterally either by a sort of squamous integument, 

 composed of very minute, irregular plates, or by distinct inter- 

 radial and axillary plates, the former varying in number from one 

 to thirty or more, the anal area containing frequently a few addi- 

 tional plates. Anus unknown, except in Taxocrinus and Onycho- 

 crinus, which have a small lateral tube. Ventral disc rarely pre- 

 served; composed of a more or less soft or scaly integument, 

 yielding to motion in the bod\ r and arms. 



This family might very appropriately be called the Articulates 

 of the Paleozoic Crinoids, being especiall}' distinguished in most 

 of its species by a peculiarity of structure which prevails through- 

 out the rays and arms. The plates have rather shallow excava- 

 tions on their outer upper margins, corresponding to projections 

 on the lower edge of the succeeding plates, which sometimes take 

 the form of superficial patelloid plates, independently articulated, 

 and sometimes anchylosed with the margin of the plate above. 

 This feature produces what seems to be an articulate structure in 

 the whole skeleton, and indicates that the body as well as the arms 

 was somewhat flexible. The interradial areas are sometimes found 

 depressed and in other cases distended, showing that there had 

 been some expansion or contraction of the body walls due to the 

 mobility of the radial parts, and indicating likewise flexibility in 

 the vault. This feature, which is found so far as we know, in no 

 other family, together with the fact that in most of the genera a 

 ventral covering has never been found preserved, leads us to infer 

 that this portion of the body was more or less composed of rather 

 fragile perhaps scaly material, instead of solid plates. If these 

 Crinoids had been provided with a rigid dome, the little projections 

 along the radial and arm plates would have interfered with the 

 spreading of the arms, which is rather facilitated by the mobility 

 of the dorsal side, and the pliant nature of the vault. Such motions 

 would be likewise aided by the patelloid plates, which are gener- 

 ally found in large species, and in those in which the interradial 

 spaces are comparatively rigid. 




1870. j NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



In Onychocrinus, the genus which evidently possessed the 

 greatest expansive power, the radial areas being frequently found 

 spread out horizontally, there are toward the inner or ventral side 

 of the rays rather large plates, to which smaller ones are joined, 

 which connect with the interradial series. They decrease in size 

 and thickness inwardly, and connect with the dome plates. In a 

 specimen of Onychocrinus exsculptus, Lyon, and another of 0. 

 diversus, Hall, we found the median portion of the vault preserved, 

 the plates being irregularly arranged, rather large and thin. This 

 important observation goes far toward proving that the Ichthyo- 

 crinidse had no external oral aperture, for if any of the family 

 were likely to have it, it would be Onychocrinus. 



The Ichthyocrinidae are nearest related to the C yathocrinidse, 

 from which they differ in having several orders of radials included 

 within the body ; in the articulate structure of the radial portions; 

 in the presence of interradial plates within the regions of the 

 calyx, and in the pliant vault. 



The separation of the genera in this family has alwaj^s been 

 attended with difficulty, and it cannot be denied that several of 

 them shade into one another in a most perplexing manner. They 

 are very closely related, and yet there is a habitus, peculiar to 

 typical forms of each genus, which is not easity described, but 

 which is readily perceived when large collections are brought 

 together, and which Paleontologists discerned at an early day. It 

 is the gradations the transition forms which make trouble, and 

 have given rise to continual modifications of the generic formulae 

 in hope of reconciling them with new discoveries. While we can- 

 not expect that the divisions we have made are wholly free from 

 errors, yet we find when we arrange the different species according 

 to the generic characters herein given, that the groupings are 

 more nearly conformable to the recognized habitus of the fossils 

 than any we have been able to make heretofore, and we are en- 

 couraged to hope that we may have approximated more closely to 

 the natural divisions. 



The Ichthyocrinidse range from the Lower Silurian to the close 

 of the Subcarboniferous. 



We recognize the following genera : 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



1. ICHTHYOCRINUS Conrad. 



1836. Euryocrinus. Pliill. Geology of Yorksh., p. 205. 



1842. IcMliyocrinus, Conrad. Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philad., vol. 



viii. p. 279. 

 1851. IcMliyocrinus, d'Orbigny. Conrs. elem. Pal. ii. p. 144. 

 1851. IcMliyocrinus, Hall. Geol. Rep. N. York, vol. ii. p. 195. 

 1878. IcMliyocrinus, Angelin. Iconogr. Crinoid., p. 13. 

 1878. IcMliyocrinus, Wachs. & Springer. Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Philad., p. 252. 



A. Typical form. 



General form of body, including arms, ovoid to pyriform, 

 with almost equilateral pentamerous symmetry. Calyx bowl or 

 cup-shaped. Underbasals three, rudimentary, of unequal size, 

 sometimes seen only within the calyx. Basals five, very small, 

 their upper angles acute. Radial plates of adjacent rays alter- 

 nately arranged. Primary radials three to four by five, wide and 

 short, height about equal, but increasing in width rapidly upward, 

 the plates being wider at their upper margins than .at the lower. 

 Secondary and tertiary radials similar in form to the primaries, 

 quadrangular in general outline, though realty pentangular and 

 hexangular, those of the same order of equal height, and half the 

 width of those of the next order. Arms twenty to sixty or 

 more, accumbent, infolding at the tips, and forming with the calyx 

 an apparently solid structure. They are composed of single joints 

 which are heavy, wider than high, quadrangular, usually with wav- 

 ing sutures. Arm furrows shallow, tripartite. Pinnulre unknown. 

 Interradial and anal plates generally absent or undeveloped at 

 the outside, I. nobilis, Wachs. & Spr. alone, to our knowledge, 

 possessing both; the}^ are longitudinally arranged, but the anal 

 side cannot be distinguished. Vault unknown. Column com- 

 posed of very short joints near the top, increasing gradually in 

 length downwards. Central perforation of medium size, pen- 

 tagonal. 



The most striking feature of this genus, by which it is easily 

 recognized, is its symmetrical, equilateral figure, and this pervades 

 the whole body. 



Hall, in his diagram (Geol. Rep., N. York, vol. ii., pi. 45, fig. 2), 

 figures a small intercalated plate in line with the subradials, which 

 is evidently accidental. He does not mention it in his generic 

 description, nor can we find it in any of our specimens. Angelin 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



mentions a single anal plate, -which is not to be found in his 

 figure. The presence of anal, interradial, and even axillary plates 

 in I. nobilis which, as far as known, is the latest representative of 

 the genus, is very instructive, as it shows the approach to 

 Forbesiocrinus. In young specimens these plates are undeveloped 

 externally, but are plainly visible on the inner surface of the calyx. 



Phillips, in 1836 (Geology of Yorksh., p. 205), described the 

 genus Euryocrinus, which is possibly the same as Ichthyocrinus, 

 and might be entitled to priority, but his description and figures 

 are so unintelligible that this would be injustice to Conrad. 

 Phillips' generic description reads as follows: "Pelvis opening 

 pentagonal, arrangement of plates like Encrinus, internal cavity 

 very large." Not much better are his figures, since they induced 

 Bronn to consider Euryocrinus as a synonym of Actinocrinus. 



Geological and Geographical distribution. Ichthyocrinus is 

 found first in the Upper Silurian, where it is represented in Europe 

 by 3 species, in North America by 5. None have been observed 

 in rocks of Devonian age. In the Subcarboniferous 3 species 

 have been discovered in America, none in Europe (unless we 

 count Euryocrinus concavus Phillips). 



We regard the following species as belonging to this genus: 



1858. Ichthyocrinus Burlingtonensis Hall. Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i., pi. ii., p. 557. 



Lower Burling, liuiest. Burlington. 

 1852. Ichthyocrinus Clintonensis Hall. Geol. Rep. N. Y., vol. ii. p. 181, pi. 41, 



figs. 6 a, b, c. Niagara gr. New York State. 

 1865. Ichthyocrinus Corbis Winchell & Marcy. Memoirs Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 



vol. i. , No. 1, p. S9. Niagara gr. Chicago, 111. 



Regarded by Hall as syn. of Ichthyocr. subangularis. 



#1879. Ichthyocrinus Gotlandicus Waehs. & Spr. (Ichthyocr. laevis Angl. not 

 Conrad.) Iconogr. Crinoid., p. 13, pi. 9, figs. 87 a-c, and pi. 22, figs. 20, 

 21. Upper Silur. Gotland, Swed. 



The Swedish specimens, which by Angelin were identified as 

 I. laevis, Conr., are very distinct from the New York species 

 which Conrad described. The European form is pear-shaped in- 

 stead of ovoid, the plates ornamented, but without any surface 

 angularity, and with nearl 3' straight sutures; while the New York 

 specimens have plates with smooth but angular surface, and very 

 distinct waving sutures. We therefore suggest their separation, 

 and propose to call the Swedish form 2". Gotlandicus. 



1878. Ichthyocrinus intermedius Angelin. Iconogr. Crin., p. 13, pi. 17, fig. 7. 

 Upper Silur. Gotland, Swed. 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



1842. Ichthyocrinus lsevis Conrad (not Angl.) Type for the genus. Journ. Acad. 



Nat. Sci. Philad., vol. xiii. p. 279, pi. 15, fig. 16; also 1852, Hall, Pal. N. 



York, vol. ii. p. 195, pi. 43, fig. 2. Niagara gr. Lockport, N. Y. 

 1878. Ichthyocrinus nobilis Wach. & Spr. Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philad., p. 



254. Upper Burl, and Keokuk transition bed. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1839. Ichthyocrinus pyriformis Phillips. (Cyathocr. pyriformis.) Sil. System, 



p. 672, pi. 17, fig. 6; also Iconogr. Crin., p. 13, pi. 17, fig. 6; and pi. 22, 



fig. 22. Upper Silur. England and Sweden. 

 *1852. Ichthyocrinus simplex Hall. (Lecanocr. simplex.) Geol. Rep. N. York, 



vol. ii. p. 202. pi. 44, figs. 2 a, b, e. Niagara gr. Lockport, N. Y. 



Hall's figure evidently represents a young Ichthyocrinus, and 

 not a young Lecanocrinus as he supposed. 



1862. Ichthyocrinus subangularis Hall. Trans. Alban. Inst, Article xii., p. 7. 



Niagara gr. Waldron, Ind. 

 1850. Ichthyocrinus tiarseformis Troost. (Cyathocr. tiarseformis. Troost's Catal., 



and Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i., part ii., p. 558. Subcarbon. Tennessee. 



B. Subgenus HOMALOCRINUS Angelin. 

 1878. Iconogr. Crinoid., p. 11. 

 We consider Homalocrinus not sufficiently distinct from Ichthyo- 

 crinus to rank it as a full genus, but propose the name for a division 

 under Ichthyocrinus. The following is a translation of Angelin's 

 generic description : "Body including arms ovoid. Basals three, 

 small. Parabasals five, triangular, placed between the sides of 

 the primary radials. Primary radials transverse, and in the form 

 of a half moon. Interradials three, the lower one heptagonal and 

 laro-e, with two small ones above. Anals three, subequal. Rays 

 several times dichotomizing." Angelin described Ichlhyowinus 

 without interradials or anals, and it seems that upon this feature 

 mainly he separates Homalocrinus. We find, however, in the 

 only known species the anal area slightly different from the inter- 

 radial, and the primary radials, instead of increasing from the" 

 base upward, as is the case in all Ichllujocrini, decrease in the 

 same direction, the first radial being here the larger plate. The 

 latter feature has induced us to retain Homalocrinus subgenerically 

 and place it under Ichthyocrinus, with which it has the closest 

 affinities. 



1878. Homalocrinus parabasilis Angelin. Iconogr. Crin., p. 11, pi. 16, figs. 29, 

 30. Upper Silur. Gotland, Swed. 



2. CLEIOCRINTJS Billings. 



1856. Geol. Surv. Canada, p. 276. 

 1B59. lb. Decade i v., p. 52. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



The generic description was made from a single specimen, and 

 this was in several respects defective. Cleiocrinus has, according 

 to Billings, five basals alternating with the radials, and forming 

 with them a belt around the column. Such a structure has never 

 been found in any Crinoid. In the typical specimen, the com- 

 paratively large column conceals from view the lower part of the 

 calyx, a space large enough to accommodate one or two series of 

 plates, and analogy suggests that this may have been the case. 

 The five plates which Billings found alternating with the primary 

 radials, and which he called basals, are certainly interradials ; and 

 as the specimen in every visible character closely resembles 

 Ichthyocrinus and allied forms, we have good reason to suppose 

 that it, like those forms, possessed five small basals and three 

 underbasals, both hidden by the column. The latter were prob- 

 ably very minute and rudimentary, since the specimen is from the 

 Lower Silurian, where it is almost the only representative of the 

 family. This alone induces us to try to define generic characters 

 from a single imperfect specimen. Notwithstanding, therefore, 

 that some of the elements are problematic, we propose until some- 

 thing better is found, the following: 



Revised generic description. Cah-x obconical or pyriform, with 

 bilateral symmetry. Underbasals probably three, minute or rudi- 

 mentary. Basals probably five, very small and hidden by the 

 column. Primary radials three by five, increasing in width upwards, 

 supporting several superior orders of radials all dichotomizing 

 uniformly, and interlocking laterally with those of adjoining rays. 

 Interradials, so far as known, one. Anals four to five, longitudi- 

 nally arranged. G. regius has six orders of radials, the number of 

 plates doubling with each bifurcation, which gives in the sixth 

 order 64 brachials to each ray or 320 to the individual. Whether 

 the small appendages wmich are seen at the top of the specimen 

 were arms, cannot be determined from the figure. 



The only known species is: 



1856. Cleiocrinus regius Billings. Geol. Rep. Canada, p. 276 ; and 1859, Decade 

 iv., p. 53, pi. 5, figs. 1 a-g. Trenton lituest. Ottawa, Can. 



Billings refers to this genus two other species, C. grandis and 

 C. magnificus, which he described from mere fragments of the 

 column, but which we cannot recognize. The fragments may be- 

 long to C. regius, or to almost any other genus. 




200 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1819. 



3. ANISOCRINUS Angelin 

 1878. Iconogr. Crinoid., p. 13. 



General form of body, including arms, ellipsoid. Calyx bowl- 

 shaped ; figure bilateral. 



Underbasals three, hidden by the column. Basals of medium 

 size, dissimilar in form. Primary radials three to five, the first 

 widest, almost as large as second and third together; the second 

 smallest of all. Secondarjr radials two, gradually increasing in 

 size upward, the bifurcating plate almost as wide as the third 

 primary radial. Arms apparently free above the secondai-y radials, 

 accumbent as in Ichthyocrinus, and composed of transverse joints. 

 Interradials one (sometimes with a small triangular piece above), 

 very large, resting with the lower angle against the short upper 

 lateral sides of the first radials, forming with them a compact wall. 

 Anals two, very large, the upper one the largest plate in the body ; 

 the acute angle of the lower leaning against the basals, with the 

 lower lateral sides i-esting against the adjoining s u brad ials, and its 

 upper lateral sides against the large first radials. The second 

 anal plate rests upon the upper truncated side of the lower one, 

 being in line with the interradial plates, and reaches like them up 

 to the top of the secondaiy radials. 



The arrangement and size of the interradial and anal plates are 

 the characteristic features of this genus. Angelin's descriptions 

 are rather indistinct on this point, and in order to have it properly 

 understood, we give almost a specific description, which will prob- 

 ably have to be modified when more species are discovered. 



Only two species are known. 



1878. Anisocrinus interradiatus Angelin. Type for the genus. Iconogr. Crin., 



p. 13, pi. 22, figs. 18, 18 a. Upper Silur. Gotland. 

 *1852. Anisocrinus Angelini Wachs. & Spr. (Lecanoerinus macopetalus Angelin 



(not Hnll). Iconogr. Crin., p. 12, pi. 19, figs. 3, 4; and pi. 22, fig. 24. 



Upper Silur. Gotland, Swed. 



The Swedish form with its enormous interradial plate is not 

 onty specifically but even generically distinct from Lecanocr. 

 macropetalus, Hall. Of the two specimens figured by Angelin, 

 the one, pi. 19, fig. 3, agrees in every respect with Anisocrinus, 

 while the other, fig. 4, differs from it in having a small, evidently 

 abnormal plate, intercalated on the posterior side. We propose 

 for this species the name of Anisocrinus Angelini, in honor of the 

 late- Prof. Angelin, the author of the genus. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



4. CALPIOCRINUS Angelin. 



1878. Calpiocrinus Angl. Iconogr. Crinoid., p. 12. 

 1878. ClidocMrus Angl. (syn.). Iconogr. Crinoid., p. 12. 



General form of body, with the arms closed, ovoid or pyriform. 

 Calyx bowl-shaped, composed apparently of only one ring of plates 

 below the radials; figure bilateral. This ring consists of three 

 plates, one of them small, the two larger ones equal, forming together 

 a pentagonal disc. Primary radials three by five, three times wider 

 than high, differing in size and form; the first one lunate, the 

 second quadrangular, the third and largest pentagonal. Secondary 

 radials three to four, about equal in size, except those in the 

 posterior rays whose lateral margins retreat to give space for the 

 large anal plates. The upper secondary radials support the arms, 

 some of which bifurcate, while others remain free. Arms similar 

 to those of Ichthyocrinus, their sides closely abutting, forming a 

 wall continuous with that of the calyx. Arm joints transverse, 

 quadrangular. Interradials rarely more than one, which is small, 

 wedged in between the second and third radials of adjacent rays. 

 Anals three to five, longitudinally arranged, the lower and smallest 

 which is almost triangular resting upon the basal plates, the 

 upper one extending to the top of the secondary radials. Column 

 slender, round, composed of very thin segments ; central perfora- 

 tion small, stellate. 



This genus, as described by Angelin, differs from all the rest of 

 the family in having but one ring of plates below the radials, and 

 this consists of three plates, unequal but apparently so propor- 

 tioned as to be partly radial and partly interradial in position. 

 The various figures, however, disagree in the latter respect. Such 

 a structure would seem to warrant its separation into a distinct 

 family, but as Calpiocrinus agrees in all other characters witli the 

 Ichthyocrinidae, we feel satisfied that it naturally belongs here. 

 We are inclined to think that in this genus the lower ring of plates 

 is the analogue of the underbasals, and that the true basals, if not 

 absent, are exceedingly rudimentary. We take the small triangu- 

 lar plate which has been called the first anal plate, to be the basal 

 (subradial) on the posterior side which is larger in the whole 

 family, and that the plates on the four other sides are very minute 

 or only visible in the inside. 



The presence of but one ring of plates visible below the radials, 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



the bilateral symmetry of the calyx, and the longitudinal arrange- 

 ment of the anal plates, are the most prominent characters of the 

 genus. 



Angelin, on the same page, describes the genus Clidochirus 

 with a single species, which agrees with Calpiocrinus in every 

 respect, except that it has no interradial plates, and four instead 

 of three first radials variations which may be expected even in 

 the same species. 



Geological and Geographical Distribution. Found thus far 

 only in the Upper Silurian of Gotland, where the following species 

 have been discovered: 



1878. Calpiocrinus fimbriatus Angelin. Iconogr. Crinoid., p. 12, pi. 29, figs. 77 



a, b. Upper Silur. Gotland, Swed. 

 1878. Calpiocrinus heterodactylus Angelin. Iconogr. Crinoid., p. 12, pi. 3, fig. 



10 a; and pi. 26, fig. 8. Upper Silur. Gotland, Swed. 

 1878. Calpiocrinus humilis Angelin. Iconogr. Crinoid., p. 12, pi. 23, figs. 28 a-c, 



and pi. 26, fig. 17. Upper Silur. Gotland, Swed. 

 1878. Calpiocrinus ovatus Angelin. Iconogr. Crinoid., p. 12; pi. 16, figs. 17-19. 



Upper Silur. Gotland, Swed. 

 *1878. Calpiocrinus pyrum Angelin. (Clidochirus pyrum). Iconogr. Crinoid , 



p. 12, pi. 22. fig. 23. Upper Silur. Gotland, Swed. 



5 LECANOCRINUS Hall. 



1852. Lecanocrinus, Hall. Geol. Rep., N. Y., vol. ii. p. 199. 



1867. Lecanocrinus, Shultze. Monogr. Echinod. Eifl. Kalkes, p. 40. 



1678. Lecanocrinus, Angelin. Iconogr. Crinoid., p. 12. 



A. Typical firm. 



General form of body and arms suhglobose to pyriform. Calyx 

 bowl-shaped, unsymmetrical, plates heavy. 



Underbasals three, unequal in size, larger than generally found 

 in the family. Basals five, three pentagonal or hexagonal, the 

 two others having an additional side for the lateral insertion of a 

 small anal plate. Primary radials two or three by five, very short 

 and wide, the first one largest. Secondary radials one to three 

 or more, varying in number even in the individual. Arms pre- 

 cisely as in Ichlhyocrinus. Inter radials generally absent. Anal 

 plates two, the lower one lying obliquely toward the right 1 side of 



1 It is worthy of note that in all Paleocrinoids, so far as observed, in 

 which the anal arrangement is unsymmetrical, the odd plates are pushed 

 out toward the right, never to the left. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



the body between the two unequal basals, the adjoining radial, 

 and the other anal plate. The second or upper and larger anal 

 plate is interposed between the primary radials and the upper 

 truncated side of the posterior basal. Column round, composed 

 of rather large joints. 



Hall, Schultze, and Angelin mention no interradials in their 

 generic descriptions, but the latter figures a specimen from Got- 

 land, which he refers to L. macropetalus Hall. It has one exceed- 

 ingly large interradial to each area, which occupies a wide space 

 between the rays, opposite all the primary radials, and as high as 

 the top of the second or third secondary radial. No New York 

 specimen of this species has ever been found with such a plate 

 or even a trace of it, and as the two differ besides decidedly in the 

 size of the basals, in the form and proportions of the body, and 

 in other characters, we consider the Swedish form even generically 

 distinct. (See Anisocrinus Angelini, W. & Spr.). 



Geological and Geographical Distribution. This genus is rep- 

 resented in the Upper Silurian by 5 species, 4 from America, and 

 1 from Europe. From the Devonian but a single species is known, 

 and none from the Subcarboniferous. 



The following are the known species : 



1878. Lecanocrinus Billingsi Angelin. Iconogr. Crinoid., p. 12, pi. 22, fig. 25 a. 



Upper Silur. Gotland, SweJ. 

 1852 Lecanocrinus calyculus(?) Hull. Geol. Reps., N. Y., vol. ii. p. 203, pi. 



46, figs. 3 a, b. Niagara gr. Upper Silur. Lockport, N. Y. 

 1858. Lecanocrinus macropetalus Hall (not Angelin). (Anisocrinus Angelini, 



W. & Spr.). Type of the genus. Geol. Rep., N. Y. Vol. ii. p. 199, pi. 



45, figs. 1 a-h. Niagara gr. Lockport, N. Y. 

 1852. Lecanocrinus ornatus Hall. Geol. Rep., N. Y.. vol. ii. p. 201, pi. 44, figs. 



2 a-m. Niagara gr. Lockport, N. Y. 

 *1862. Lecanocrinus pusillus Hall. (Cyathocr. pusillus.) New Foss. of Niagara 



gr. p. 6, and 28th Rep., N. Y. State Cab. Nat. Hist , pi. 15, figs. 1-6. 



Niagara gr. Waldron, Ind. 



Winchell and Marcy, Memoirs Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., p. ; 0, de- 

 scribed a cast from the Niagara limestone of Chicago under the 

 species Lecanocr. pusillus, which is probably identical with Hall's 

 Cyathocrinus pusillus. The description is not sufficient to decide 

 it fully. 



1867. Lecanocrinus Rcemeri Schultze. Echinod. Eifl. Kalk, p. 41, pi. 3, figs. 8 a-g. 

 Devonian. Eifel, Germ. 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



B. Subgenus PYCNOSACCUS Angelin. 

 1878. Iconogr. Crinoid, p. 13. 



The distinction between Pycnosaccus and Lecanocrinus seems 

 to us scarcely sufficient to warrant a full generic separation. The 

 two agree in all essential features, except that the former, accord- 

 ing to description, has two primary radials instead of three, and 

 that the plates of the calyx are ornamented by radiating ridges, 

 such as are frequently found in Barycrinus. Even in that genus, 

 the ornamentation is not constant, and at the most is a ver}- un- 

 reliable character. In L. Rozmeri Schultze, which has entirely 

 smooth plates, we find in two rays only two primary radials as in 

 Pycnosaccus. It is very significant that if we consider the first 

 and second radials of Lecanocrinus as one plate, we obtain ex- 

 actly the proportions of the first radial in Pycnosaccus, which in 

 our opinion here replaces the first and second radials, while the 

 bifurcating second radial of Pycnosaccus actually represents the 

 third radial of Lecanocrinus. Form of body, arrangement of the 

 anal plates, and construction and folding of the arms precisely as 

 in Lecanocrinus, only that the arm plates are slightly higher. 



1878. Pycnosaccus (?) costatus Angelin. Iconogr. Crinoid, p. 14, pi. 15, fig. 13 

 Upper Silur. Gotland, Swed. 



(This species belongs probably to the Cyathocrinidse (?) ). 



1878. Pycnosaccus nodulosus Angelin. Iconogr. Crinoid., p. 14, pi. 15, figs. 12, 



14, and pi. 28, fig. 29. Upper Silur. Gotland, Swed. 

 1840. Pycnosaccus scrobiculatus Hisinger. (Cyathocrinites scrobiculatus(T)). 



Leth. Suec. Supplem. ii. p. 6, pi. 39, figs. 4 a-c ; also 1878, Angelin. 



Iconogr. Crinoid., p. 14, pi. 15, figs. 10, 11. Upper Silur. Gotland, Swed. 



6. MESPILOCRINUS De Koninck & Lehon. 



1853. Mespilocrinus, de Kon. & Lehon. Recher. s. les Crin. Carb. Belg.> 



p. 111. 

 1836. Young Poteriocrinus, Phillips. Geol. Yorksh., vol. ii. p. 205. 

 1866. Lecanocrinus, Schultze. Echinod. Eifl. Kalk., p. 40. 

 1859. Mespilocrinus, Hall. Supplem. Iowa Geol. Rep., p. 69. 



General form of body with arms, globular to pyriform, very 

 small. Calj'x bilateral, though apparently unsymmetrical on ac- 

 count of the dextrorse arrangement of the arms. 



Underbasals three, unequal; one quadrangular, the other two 

 larger and pentangular. Basals five; four of them equal, the fifth 

 larger and hexagonal, its upper face parallel with the lower. Ra- 

 dials three by five, the first forming part of the basal cup. Sec- 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



ond radials wedgeform, shorter, but as wide as the first. The 

 third radials support two arms which bifurcate once. The arms 

 are extremely short, composed of very few joints, tapering rapidly 

 upward, infolding, inclined obliquely from left to right, and when 

 closed they fit so neatly one into the other, that it appears as if 

 they formed together with the calyx a continuous body. Arm 

 joints single, slightly cuneate. Inter radials none. Anals one, sub- 

 quadrangular, resting upon the larger basal. Column round, com- 

 posed of thin joints near the body, increasing in length so rapidly 

 towards its base, that in four inches the joints attain a length of 

 half an inch. Central perforation of medium size. 



L. Schultze, in his Monograph der Echinod. Eifl. Kalk., p. 40, 

 pronounces Mespilocrinus a synoivyra of Lecanocrinus. In this 

 he is evidentby mistaken. Lecanocrinus has arms like Ichthyo- 

 crinus, while those of Mespilocrinus, in place of being straight, 

 are turned to the right, and the radial and arm plates are conse- 

 quently wedgeform instead of rectangular. Schultze's Lecano- 

 crinus Rcemeri, on which he based the above conclusion, is a most 

 interesting species to show the relations between the two genera. 

 It occurs in the Devonian and zoologically occupies an intermedi- 

 ate position between the Silurian form Lecanocrinus and Mespi- 

 locrinus of the Subcarboniferous. L. Bcemeri not only has very 

 short arms, but they fold up almost as in Mespilocrinus, yet they 

 have rectangular joints and are not deflected. The species has 

 also the unsymmetrieal arrangement of the anal area, but the odd 

 plate is here exceedingly small, and has, when combined with the 

 large one, exactly form and proportions of the single anal plate 

 in Mespilocrinus, thus approaching and foreshadowing the bilateral 

 form which succeeded in the Subcarboniferous. 



Mespilocrinus seems to be strictly a subcarboniferous genus, 

 and only four species are known : 



1853 Mespilocrinus Forbesianus De Koninck andLehon. Recherch . Crin. Belg. , 

 p. 112, pi. ii., figs. 1 a-c. Mountain liuiest. England and Belgium. 



1853. Mespilocrinus granifer De Koninck and Lehon. Recherch. Crinoid, Belg., 

 p. 114, pi. ii , figs. 6 a-c. Mountain limest. Vise, Belgium. 



1859. Mespilocrinus Konincki Hall. Supplem. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 69. Burlingt. 

 limest. Burlington, Iowa. 



1861. Mespilocrinus scitulus Hall. Prelim. Not. New Pal. Crinoids, p. 9. Bur- 

 lingt. limest. Burlington, Iowa. 



18 




2G6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



7. TAXOCRINTJS Phillips. 



1836. Poteriocrinus, Phillips (in part). Geol. Yorksh., toI. i. (not Miller). 



1841. Isocrinus, Phillips. Pal. Foss. Cornw. (not H. von Meyer 1837). 



1842. Cladocrinus, Austin. Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist., vol. x. (not Agassiz). 



1843. Taxoerinus, Phillips. Morris's Cat. Brit. Foss., p. 90. 



1851. Cyathocrinus, Roemer. Leth. Geognost. (3te Ausgabe), p. 233 



(not Miller). 

 1853. Forbesiocrinus, de Kon. & Leh. (in part). Recherch. Crinoid. Belg. 



p. 119. 

 1866. Taxoerinus, Schultze. Echinod. Eifl. Kalkes, p. 33. 

 1878. Taxoerinus, Angelin. Iconogr. Crinoid., p. 8. 

 1878. Taxoerinus., sub-genus of JchtJiyocrinus, Wachsm. & Spr. Proceed. 



Acad. Nat. Sci. Philad. p. 252. 



According to Phillips (Morris's Catal. Brit. Foss ), Taxoerinus 

 has " 5 basals ; 3 radial plates in 5 series ; arms dividing upon the 

 third radial and frequently dichotomizing above this point; arms 

 and branches of single series of joints, interbrachial and axillary 

 plates." 



This description embraces almost every genus of the Ichthyo- 

 crinidse, among them Fo7 % besiocrinus. 



Johannes Miiller, Monatsbericht der Berliner Akademie, March, 

 1858, was the first who mentioned the presence in Taxoerinus of 

 three small pieces within the parabasalia basals, similar to 

 those found by Hall in Ichthyocrinus, and in species which were 

 supposed to be Forbesiocrinus. Miiller's discovery was evidently 

 overlooked by Hall, who in 1858 described his Taxoerinus inter- 

 scapulars with five basals and no subradials; and in 1861, and 

 even later, he refers several species with three basals and five sub- 

 radials to Forbesiocrinus, which undoubtedly belong to Taxoeri- 

 nus. Schultze, in his description of Phillips genus (Monogr. p. 32) 

 calls the small plates " cryptobasalia," because they are always 

 hidden by the column, and sometimes only visible within the 

 calyx. 



The tripartite proximal ring, rudimentar}' in some instances, is 

 now admitted to belong to all the genera which we include among 

 the Ichthyocrinidse, and it therefore no longer forms a generic 

 distinction. 



The separation of Taxoerinus and Forbesiocrinus has always 

 been a stumbling block to Paleontologists. De Koninck and 

 Lehon gave as the principal distinction, that Taxoerinus had no 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 267 



anal nor interradial plates, while Forbesiocrinus had both, and 

 sometimes a large number of them. 



In 1866, both Meek & Worthen and Schultze wrote on this 

 subject, and arrived independently at the same conclusion. The 

 former, in an elaborate article in the Illinois Geological Report, 

 vol. ii. p. 270, show that the same species may have sometimes no 

 interradials, and again from one to three. They refer to Taxo- 

 crinus Hall's Foi^besiocrinus Thiemei, which was described as 

 having no interradials, but which has sometimes two, and which 

 we have even found with as many as five regular interradial plates. 

 The one, according to De Koninck, would be Taxocrinus, the 

 other Forbesiocrinus. To amend the generic formula so as to 

 admit species with one or two series of interradials, did not seem 

 to those authors expedient, since the species exhibit such a wide 

 range of variation in this character. Nor do they consider the 

 presence of axillaiy plates which occur in both groups, nor the 

 small patelliform supplementary pieces of some well-defined species 

 of Forbesiocrinus a means of distinction, inasmuch as they are not 

 always present in otherwise typical forms of that group ; while 

 well-marked species of Taxocrinus are described as showing the 

 patelloid plates between the arm joints. Meek and Worthen 

 therefore concluded, until more distinctive characters should be 

 discovered, to place Forbesiocrinus embracing species with many 

 interradial and anal plates as a mere section under Taxocrinus. 



Schultze found in his Devonian species almost every character 

 of Forbesiocrinus except the small patelloid plates, but whether 

 these were sufficient to distinguish it from Taxocrinus, he did not 

 wisli to decide, and so he placed the species from the Eifel, in 

 which these plates do not occur, .under Taxoci'inus. He, how- 

 ever, included with this genus species which evidently belong to 

 very distinct genera. 



Angelin, in the Iconographia Crinoideorum Suecias, pp. 8, 9, 

 gives generic descriptions both of Taxocrinus and Forbesiocrinus, 

 and ranges under the two genera several new species. His de- 

 scriptions only differ, so far as we understand them, in this : that 

 in Forbesiocrinus the number of primary radials is left an open 

 question, while in Taxocrinus the number is fixed at 3 X 5 ; that 

 the former had one large hexagonal anal plate (he evidently 

 meant, to judge from his figures, "and other smaller ones succeed- 

 ing"), and a considerable number of interradials, the lower one 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [18?9. 



much the largest; while Taxocrinus has two series of anals and 

 several interradials. The three underbasals are comparatively 

 large in both groups. Angelin's descriptions of both genera are 

 short, and give us but little additional information regarding their 

 relations; on the contrary they rather increase the difficulty, as 

 none of his species of Taxocrinus or Forbesiocrinus are true rep- 

 resentatives of either, thus raising the question whether the Swe- 

 dish species ought not to be considered as types of new genera, 

 or at least be separated subgenerically. We prefer the latter 

 course, and propose Gnorimocrinus for the former, and Lithocri- 

 nus for the latter. 



Phillips in proposing the genus Taxocrinus included in it the 

 following species, in the order in which we give them, viz., Poterio- 

 crinus Egertoni Phill. 2. Cyathocrinus tuberculatum Miller. 1 

 3. Cyathocrinus macrodactylus; and 4. Cyathocrinus nobili* 

 Phill. The first of these, a subcarboniferous species, with no or 

 but few interradials, must be considered, according to the most 

 generally accepted rules of naturalists, the type of the genus. The 

 second and third species have but one or two interradials, T. tuber- 

 culatus, according to Pictet's figure, one or two anals resting on 

 the upper truncated side of the large basal. The fourth species 

 was Koninck & Lehon's type of their genus Forbesiocrinus. 



Now comparing the anal arrangement of the latter or rather 

 of Forbesiocrinus Agassizi Hall, which undoubtedly belongs to the 

 same group, and in which these parts are better known we find 

 the large basal not truncated, and the anal series which rests di- 

 rectly upon it almost identical in construction with the interra- 

 dial series, except that it is slightly broader, and that it consists 

 of a few more plates. We also find in that species a considerable 

 number of axillary pieces, which extend up to the top of the ter- 

 tiary radials where the arms become free. 



Referring to Taxocrinus, or to species with but few interradials, 



1 Roemer, 'considering Miller's genus Cyatlwcrinus not distinct from 

 Poteriocrinus, proposed in 1851 (Foss. Fauna d. Devon. Gebirges a. Rliein, 

 p. 8), and again in 1855 (Lethtea Geognostica, Ausgabe III. p. 238), that 

 all species hitherto placed under Phillips' Taxocrinus, be arranged under 

 Cyatlwcrinus with C. tuberculatum Miller's second species as type, and 

 the generic formula amended accordingly. The genus Cyathocrinus, how- 

 ever, with Miller's first specios C. planus as type, has been accepted by 

 almost every other paleontologist. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 269 



we find the first anal either directly upon the truncated basal as in 

 Taxocrinus htberculatus, or sometimes, in species in which the 

 first radial s join laterally, the first anal is placed opposite the 

 second and third or even' between the third radials, as in Taxocri- 

 nus Thiemei, but in either case, with the exception of the Swedish 

 specimens, the anal plate has a truncated upper side, and is suc- 

 ceeded by from two to six similar, narrow, quadrangular plates, 

 longitudinally arranged. The plates diminish in size upwards, 

 and form the dorsal side of a short and slender lateral proboscis, 

 whose ventral parts, as well as the wall supporting them, have 

 never been found preserved, and evidently consisted of more fra- 

 gile material. 



Returning to the interradial series we find specimens with appa- 

 rently none to three or more interradial plates, with variation 

 even in the individual, and some with as many as nine interradi- 

 als, though in no instance extending up higher than to the top of 

 the third primary radials, above which the rays are almost always 

 free in the fossil. This, however, was not the case in the animal. 

 Schultze found in his T. juglandiformis, within the open spaces 

 between the rays, as well as between the first divisions of the rays, 

 a large number of very minute, uneven and twisted pieces, which 

 evidently took the place of the larger interradial plates in all 

 cases where those did not exist. Similar pieces were figured by 

 Angelin in the Swedish species, and they probably were present 

 in all Taxocrini. 



In some well-preserved specimens of Taxocr. (Forbesiocr.) 

 muUibrachiatus Lyon & Cass, from Crawfordsville, Indiana, and 

 in a Taxocrinus r-ainulosus, Hall, from Burlington, Iowa, we have 

 had an opportunity to examine this structure. Both species have 

 a comparatively large number of interradials, the former from 

 three to nine, arranged in from two to four series, the other six 

 to seven in three series. These plates are quite prominent and 

 differ but slightly in size. The little plates in question, or the 

 plated integument as we should rather call it the plates seem to 

 be imbricated is attached to the upper series of interradials, and 

 fills the rather large interradial space up to the top of the second- 

 ary radials, inclosing the axillary spaces between the series of the 

 latter up to the first arm-joints, and evidently covering the 

 entire oral side of the body. On looking at the anterior side of 

 these specimens, the construction seems almost identical with 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18*79. 



that of Forbesiocrinus, except that the upper part of the interra- 

 dial area is less substantial and compact ; but their posterior 

 aspect exhibits in Taxocrinus a small lateral proboscis, while in 

 Forbesiocrinus the space is filled with heavy plates, in the latter 

 an almost pentamerous symmetry, in Taxocrinus (except in the 

 Swedish species), a distinct bilateral one. This we consider the 

 best distinction between the two genera. (Compare Diagram, 

 PL 15, Fig. 2.) 



An examination of a very large series of well-preserved speci- 

 mens of the two genera has led us to this conclusion, and to a 

 modification, to this extent, of the opinion intimated by us here- 

 tofore (Proceed. Phila. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1878, p. 254), that there 

 is no distinction between these genera. We find that in practice 

 we can separate them quite satisfactorily by the characters herein 

 indicated, and, accordingly, we propose the following revised 

 generic diagnosis : 



A. Typical form. 



Body, including arms, rather short, depressed ; calyx cup- or 

 bowl-shaped, with bilateral symmetry. Underbasals three, some- 

 times very small, unequal in size, the two larger ones pentangular, 

 the smaller quadrangular. Basals five, four of them equal and 

 with acute upper angles, the fifth larger, generally with truncated 

 upper sides. Primary radials three rarely four by five, of nearly 

 equal size, wider than high, quadrangular in outline, except the 

 upper one which is pentangular. Secondary radials varying in 

 number from three to six the former most prevalent slightly 

 smaller than the primary radials, and resembling them in general 

 form. Tertiary radials like the preceding, only comparatively 

 smaller and supporting the arms. 



Arms dichotomizing once or twice, composed of single, short 

 joints, more or less rounded on the back ; sutures frequently 

 sinuate, and sometimes provided with supplementary patelloid 

 plates. Interradials none to three or more as many as nine have 

 been observed extending as high as the top of the second or 

 third primary radials, with very minute, irregular plates above, 

 which fill the entire space to the top of the secondary radials, the 

 axillary spaces, sometimes enclosing the first arm plates, and 

 probably covering the entire ventral side of the body. 



Some species have from one to three regular axillary plates, 

 with occasionally a single plate in the axil between the tertiary 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



radials. Anal plates resting upon the truncated upper side of the 

 larger basal, or sometimes placed independently in line with second 

 and third radials. They consist of a series of from two to five 

 narrow quadrangular plates, longitudinally arranged, the upper 

 ones forming the dorsal side of a small lateral proboscis. Column 

 comparatively large, rapidly tapering, composed near the body of 

 thin joints, which gradually increase in thickness as they diminish 

 in diameter. Central perforation of medium size, pentangular as 

 far as observed. 



Geological and Geographical Distribution. Taxocrinus, so far 

 as known, appears first in Europe, where it is represented in the 

 Upper Silurian by 2 species, in the Devonian by 3, and in the 

 Subcarboniferous by 2. In the United States and Canada (if we 

 exclude Lecanocr.(?) elegans, from the Trenton group), it is first 

 found in the Devonian, from which 4 species are known, and from 

 the Subcarboniferous 13 are described. 



We include in the typical form of the genus the following spe- 

 cies : 



1856. Taxocrinus affinis Miiller. Neue Echinod. d. Eifel, p. 244, pi. 1, figs 1, 2 ; 

 also Schultze, 1866, Echinod. Eifl. Kalk., p. 34, pi. 4, fig. 2. Devonian. 



Eifel, Germ. 

 1843. Taxocr. brevidactylus Aust. (Cladocrinus brevidactylus). Ann. and Mag. 



Nat. Hist., vol. ii , p. 198; also Rec and Foss. Crin., p. 89, pi. 11, fig. 4. 



Subcarbon, Ireland. 

 * 1863. Taxocr. communis Hall. (Forbesiocr. communis). 17th Regts. Report. N. 



Y. State Cab., p. 55 ; also 1877, Paleont. Rep. Ohio. Vol. ii. p. 169, pi. 



12. figs. 3-5. Waverly group. Richfield, 0. 

 1836. Taxocr. Egertoni Phillips (Poteriocr. Egertoni). Geol. Yorksh., ii. pi. 3, 



fig. 39. Subcarbon. Yorkshire, Eng. 

 *1858. Taxocrinus Giddingei Hall. (Forbesiocrinus Giddingei). Geol. Rep. 



Iowa, vol. i. pt. ii. p. 633, pi. 17, figs. 2, 4. Keokuk liinest. Illinois, 



Iowa. 

 1865. Taxocr. gracilis Meek and Worthen. Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 



142 | also Geol. Rep. Illinois, vol. iii. p. 421, pi. 13, fig. 3. Hamilton gr. 



Jackson Co., 111. (not Taxocr. gracilis Schultze = Rhopalocrinus gracilis, 



Wach?m. and Spr. 

 *1867. Taxocr. incurvus Trautschold. (Forbesiocr. incurvus.) Crin. des jiinge- 



ren Bergk. Moskau, p. 31 ; also Kalkbr. von Mjatschkowa, p. 126, pi. 14, 



fig. 11, and pi. 15, fig. 3. Subcarb., near Moscow, Russ. 

 1858. Taxocr. interscapularis Hall. Geol. Rep., Iowa, vol. i., pt. ii., p. 482, pi. 



1, fig. 3. Hamilton gr. New Buffalo, Iowa. 

 1867. Taxocrinus juglandiformis Schultze. Echinod. Eifl. Kalkes, p. 35, pi. 4, fig. 



4. Devonian. Eifel, Germ. 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



*1861. Taxocr. juvenis Hall. (Forbesocr. juvenis), Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., vol. 



vii. No. 2, p. .319. Lower Burl, limest., Burlington. 

 *1863. Taxocr. Kelloggi Hall. (Forbesciocr. Kelloggi), 17th Regts. Rep N. Y. 



State Cab., p. 50 ; also Geol. Rep., Ohio, Paleont, vol. ii. p. 171, pi. 12, fig. 



1. Waverly gr., Subcarb. Richfield, Ohio. 

 *1862. Taxocr. lobatus Hall. (Forbesiocr. lobatus), i5th Regts. Rep. N. Y. 



State Cab., p. 124. Hamilton gr. Ontario Co., N. Y. 

 *1863. Taxocr. lobatus var. tardus Hall. (Forbesiocr. lobatus var. tardus), 17th 



Regt's. Rep. N. Y. State Cab., p. 56; also Geol. Rep. Ohio Paleont, vol. 



ii. p. 171, pi. 12, fig. 1. Waverly gr. Richfield, Ohio. 

 1841. Taxocr. macrodactylus, Phillips. (Cyathor. macrodactylus). Paleoz. Foss. 



Corniv., p. 29, pi. 15, fig. 41. Subcarbon. England. 

 *1858. Taxocrinus Meeki Hall. (Forbesiocr. Meeki), Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i., 



pt. ii., p. 631, pi. 17, fig. 3. Meek and Worthen, 1866, Ouychocrinus 



Meeki, Geol. Rep. Illinois, vol. ii. p. 243. Keokuk limest. Keokuk, 



Iowa. 

 *1858. Taxocr. multibrachiatus Lyon and Cass,- (Forbesiocr. multibracbiatus), 



Amer. Journ. Sci , vol. xxiii. (Labelled in most American collections 



Forbesiocr. Meeki Hall.) Keokuk limest. Crawfordsville, Ind., and in 



Kentucky. 

 *1862. Taxocr. nuntius Hall. (Forbesiocr. nuntius), 15th Regt's Rep. N. Y. 



State Cab., p. 124. Hamilton gr. Erie Co., N. Y. 

 1855. Taxocr. Orbignii McCoy. Synops. Foss. Brit. Pal. Rocks, p. 53, pi. 1 D., 



fig 1. Upper Silur. Westmoreland, Eng. 

 *1860. Taxocr. ramulosus Hall. (Forbesiocr ramulosus). Supplement Iowa Geol. 



Rep., p. 67 (not Forbesiocr. ramulosus, Lyon and Cass. = Onychocrinus 



ramulosus). Upper Burlington limest. Burlington. Synon. forbesiocr. 



sumbramulosus Shumard, 1866 

 1851. Taxocr. Rhenanus F Roemer. (Cyatbocr. Rhenanus), Foss. Fauna d. 



Rhein. Gebirg. , p. 7, pi. 2, figs. 2 a-d. Devonian. Germany. 



1860. Taxocr. semiovatus Meek and Worthen. Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 



p. 389 | Geol. Rep. Illinois, vol. ii. p. 272, pi. 20, figs. 4 a-b. St. Louis 

 limest. Hardin Co., Ill 

 *1858. Taxocr. Shumardianus Hall. (Forbesiocr. Shumardianus), Geol. Rep. 

 Iowa, vol. i., pt. ii., p. 671, pi. 17, fig. 1. St. Louis limest. St. Louis, Mo. 



1861. Taxocr. Thiemei Hall. (Forbesiocr. Tbiomei), Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., vol. 



vii. No. 2, p. 317. Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 Synom. Forbesiocrinus spinifer Hall, 1861. Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., vol. vii. 

 No. 2, p. 318 

 1821. Taxocr. tuberculatus Miller. (Cyathocr. tuberculatus), Nat. History of 



Crinoidea, p. 88 ; also Goldfuss, 1S26, Petref. Germanise, pi. 63. figs. 6 A, B. 



Cladocrinus tuberculatus Austin, Journ. Zool., xi. p. 197. Upper Silur. 



Dudley, Eng. 

 *1858. Taxocrinus Wbitfieldi Hall. (Forbesiocr. Wbitfieldi.) Geol. Rep. Iowa, 



vol. i., pi. 2, p. 632. Meek & Worthen, 1866, Geol. Rep. Illinois, vol ii. 



p. 243. Keokuk limest. Warsaw, 111. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



B. Subgenus GNORIMOCRINUS Wachsm. & Spr. 

 (yvcepifx.i(, noble ; Kptvo*, a lily.) 



In form and general habitus closely resembling Taxocrinus. 

 Arms comparatively longer, figure irregular, lacking the bilateral 

 symmetry of that genus. The basal (subradial) on the posterior 

 side is exceedingly large, reaching almost up to the top of the ad- 

 joining first radials. The first anal plate, instead of resting upon the 

 truncated upper side of that basal, leans against the oblique right 

 side and the adjoining first radial. A second series of anals, gener- 

 ally composed of two plates, rests above the basal and first anal 

 plate. All succeeding pieces are small, frequently, but not always, 

 quadrangular, and form as in Taxocrinus a short and narrow- 

 lateral proboscis which, however, is here pushed over toward the 

 right side of the body, thereby destroying the symmetry which is 

 characteristic of that genus. Arms placed apart, outer face 

 rounded, bifurcating unequally by throwing off branches toward 

 the inner side of the ray, the outer side forming almost a straight 

 line. Column composed of long and short and wide and narrow 

 joints which alternate from the top, not exclusively short joints at 

 the top as in most Taxocrini. 



We place here the following species: 



*1878. Gnorimocrinus Austini Angelin. (Taxocr. Austini.) Iconogr. Crin., p. 9, 

 pi. 19, figs. 11 and 11a. Upper Silur. Gotland, Sweden. 



*1878. Gnorimocr. distensus Angelin. 1 (Taxocr. distensus.) Iconogr. Crinoid , p. 

 9, pi. 26, figs. 7, 7 a. Upper Silur. Gotland, Swed. 



*1866. Gnorimocr. excavatus Shultze. (Zeacr. excavatus.) Echinod. d. Efl. 

 Kalkes, p. 39, pi. 7, fig. 2. Devonian. Eifel, Germ. 



This species differs from the rest in having an excavated base. 



*1876. Gnorimocr. expansus Angelin. (Taxocr. expansus.) Iconogr. Crinoid., p. 



9, pi. 20, figs. 15, 16. Upper Silur. Gotland, Swed. 

 *1878. Gnorimocr. interbrachiatus Angel. (Taxocrinus interbrachiatus.) Jconog. 



Crinoid., p. S, pi. 29, figs. 9, 10. Upper Silur. Gotland, Swed. 

 *1879. Gnorimocr. Loveni Wachsm. & Spr (Cyathocr. interbracbiatus Angel.) 



Iconogr. Crinoid., p. 23, figs. 2, 2 a. Upper Silur. Gotland, Swed. 



This species differs from Cyalhacrinus both in the arrangement 

 of the anal plates and in the presence of interradials. Gnorimocr. 

 interbrachiatus being preoccupied, we have named it in honor of 

 Prof. Loven of Stockholm. 



1 In this species, as also Gnorimocr. punctatus, the irregular arrangement 

 of the anal area is not sufficiently shown iu the figures, and both may pos- 

 sibly belong to Taxocrinus. 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



*1878. Gnorimocrinus oblongatus Angelin. (Taxocr. oblongatus.) Iconogr. 



Crinoid., p. 8, pi. 20, fig. 17. Upper Silur. Gotland, Swed. 

 *1878. Gnorimocrinus ovalis Angelin. (Taxocr. ovalis.) Iconog. Crinoid, p. 8, 



pi. 20, figs. 13, 14, Upper Silur. Gotland, Swed. 

 *1878. Gnorimocr. punctatus Angelin. (Taxocr. punctatus.) Icongr. Crinoid., 



p. 9, pi. 23, figs. 4, 5 (fig. 27(?) ). Upper Silur. Gotland, Swed. 

 *1878. Gnorimocr. rigens Angelin. (Taxocr. rigens.) Iconogr. Crinoid., p. 9, 



pi. 11. figs. 7, 8. Upper Silur. Gotland, Swed. 

 *1878. Gnorimocr. Salteri Angl. (Taxocr. Salteri.) Iconogr. Crinoid., p. 9, pi. 



23, figs 1, la. Upper Silur. Gotland, Swed. 

 *1878. Gnorimocr. tubuliferus Angl. (Taxocri. tubuliferus.) Inconogr. Crinoid., 



p. 9, pi. 20, figs. 11, 12. Upper Silur. Gotland, Swed. 



8. FORBESIOCRINUS De Koninck &, Lehon. 

 (Diagr. PI. 15, Fig. 1.) 



1853. Foi-besiocr., De Kou. & Leli. Reckerches 8. 1. Crin. Belg., p. 18. 



1858. Forbesioer., Hall. Geol Rep. Iowa, vol. i. pi. 2, p. 628. 



1866. Taxocrinus, Meek & Worth. Geol. Rep. Illinois, vol. ii. p. 269. 



1878. Forbesiocrinus, Angl. Iconogr. Crinoid., p. 9. 



A. Typical form. 



Comparatively larger than any other genus of the Ichthyocrinidse. 

 Bod} - , including arms, broad, short, almost equilaterally penta- 

 merous. Calyx very large, plates heavy and nodose, radial por- 

 tions prominent. Underbasals three, small, hidden by the column, 

 two of them of equal size, the third smaller. Basals five, four 

 about equal, the one at the posterior side larger, rarely truncated. 

 Primary radials three to four by five, generally four, but varying 

 in number in the individual ; large, almost equal in size and form. 

 Secondary radials two, three, four, or more to the series, about 

 half as large as the primary radials, and of the same general form. 

 Tertiary radials smaller than those of the preceding order and 

 comparatively shorter, the rays becoming free at the second, third, 

 or fourth plate. Arms long, dichotomizing, infolding at the tips 

 so that their full length is seldom observed. They are composed 

 of single, short plates, slightly rounded at the back, with a deep 

 ventral furrow. Arm joints in corresponding subdivisions of the 

 same size, those in each succeeding order smaller by about one- 

 half. The sutures of the radial and arm plates strongly sinuate, 

 and partly occupied by additional patelloid plates. Interradial 

 area extending to the top of the tertiary radials, and composed of 

 a large number of plates, from ten to twenty or more, which de- 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 275 



crease in size gradually upward, the lower one being about half 

 the size of the primary radials. 



Axillary plates from ten to twenty and more, with occasionally 

 one to three within the axil of the tertiary radials. Anal area 

 without lateral proboscis or visible aperture, slightly wider than 

 the interradial areas and similarly arranged, with generally two 

 plates in the first series instead of one. Dome unknown, but 

 evidently to some extent flexile. Column large, tapering down- 

 ward, with very thin joints next the body ; central perforation of 

 medium size, pentagonal. 



The most important distinction between Forbesiocrinus and 

 Taxoorinus is to be found in the construction of the anal and 

 interradial areas. Unfortunately the type specimen of the former 

 genus is in these particular parts very imperfect. We therefore 

 propose, until better specimens of Forbesiocrinus nobilis De Kon. 

 & Leh. are discovered, to make Forbesiocrinus Agassizi Hall the 

 type of the genus. This large and beautiful species from the 

 Burlington limestone evidently belongs to the same group, and 

 has been found in excellent preservation. 



Geographical and Geological Distribution. Forbesiocrinus is 

 not distinguished for a great variety of form, nor for abundance 

 of individuals. In Europe, there has been found only one species 

 from the Mountain limestone of England In the United States, 

 it is represented by four species, all from the Subcarboniferous. 



We recognize the following species as belonging to this genus : 



1858. Forbesiocr. Agassizi Hall. (Proposed type). Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i., pt. 2, p- 



631; also Suppl. Iowa Geol. Rep., p. 65. Upper Burlgt. limest. Burling- 

 ton, Iowa. Syno7i. F. Agassizi var. giganteus, Meek & Worth. Geol. Rep. 

 Illinois, vol. iii. p. 495, p!. 18, fig. 3. 



1859. Forbesiocr. Cestriensis Hall. Suppl. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 68. Chester limest. 



Pope Co., 111. 

 1853. Forbosiocr. nobilis De Kon. & Leh. (original type). Recherches s. 1. Crin. 



Belg. p. 121, pi. 2, figs. 2 a, b. Poteriocr. nobilis Phill. is probably a 



synonym. Mountain limest. Yorkshire, Engl. 

 1858. Forbesiocr. Wortheni Hall. Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i., pt. 2, p. 632, pi. 17, 



fig. 5. Keokuk limest. Keokuk, Iowa, and Crawfordsville, Ind. 



B. Subgenus LITHOCRINUS Wachs. & Spr. 

 (m&o?, a stone ; *fiw, a lily.) 



Prof. Angelin, in the Iconogr. Crinoid. Suec, p. 9, has described 

 several Gotland species under Forbesiocrinus, which we propose 




27G PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



to separate subgenerically. They differ from all subcarboniferous 

 species of this group in having larger underbasals, fewer plates in 

 the interradial and anal areas ; in exhibiting a strong tendency to 

 a bilateral figure instead of a pentahedral; in having comparatively 

 much larger and higher first, and shorter second and third radials; 

 also in the exceedingly large first interradial and first anal plate. 

 Arms, so far as observed, free above the secondary radials, but 

 only toward the inner side of the ray; the outer side forming 

 almost a straight line. No pinnulse observed. Column round, 

 composed of alternately larger and smaller joints not tapering 

 in diameter downward. 



This division embraces the following species: 



*1878. Lithocrinus divaricatus Angelin. (Forbesiocr. divaricatus). Iconogr. 



Crinoid., p. 9, pi. 21, fig. 21, and pi. 28, fig. 3. Upper Silur. Gotland, 



Swed. 

 *1878 Lithocr. Milleri Angelin. (Forbesiocr. Milleri.) Iconogr. Crinoid, p. 9, 



pi. 21, fig. 16, and pi. 28, fig. 1. Upper Silur. Gotland, Swed. 

 *1878. Lithocrinus obesus Angelin. (Forbesiocr. obesus.) Iconogr. Crinoid., p. 



9, pi. 21, fig. 18, and pi. 28, fig. 2. Upper Silur. Gotland, Swed. 

 *1.878. Litbocr. robustus Angelin. (Forbesiocr. robustus.) Iconogr. Crinoid., 



p. 9, pi. 21, figs. 11, 12. Upper Silur. Gotland, Swed. 



9. ONYCHOCRINTJS Lyon & Casseday. 



1859. 0nyc7iocri?ius, L. & C. Am. Journ. Sci., vol. xxix. p. 77. 



1801. Onychocrinus, Meek & Worth. Geol. Rep. Illinois, vol. ii. p. 242. 



18G1. Forbesiocr inus, Hall. Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., vol. vii. p. 321. 



Body extended in five free rays, which are sometimes spread 

 out horizontally; arms resembling the talons of a fowl. Calyx 

 depressed saucer or low cup-shaped. 



Underbasals three, of unequal size, rarely seen beyond the 

 column. Basals five, four with obtuse angles, the fifth with a 

 truncated or slightly excavated upper side. Radials four to five 

 (rarely six to seven) by five; comparatively large, almost of equal 

 size. At the third, fourth, or fifth plate, the rays become free, 

 after which they divide once, each division giving off the true 

 arms. Arms vei-y short, brandling once or twice, disposed in 

 clusters at the extremities, and in some species along their sides 

 also; composed of single joints with waving sutures and deep 

 ventral furrow. In the anal area there is a series of from three to 

 five very narrow, quadrangular plates, which rests upon the trun- 

 cated or slightly excavated upper side of the basal, and forms a 

 small lateral proboscis as in Taxocrinus. Interradials three to 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 277 



twenty, perhaps more in some species; the first one large, resting 

 between the first and second radials; the succeeding ones smaller, 

 rapidly decreasing in size and thickness upward, and having an 

 inward curvature. They are followed by very minute, irregular 

 polygonal plates, which form the interradial portion of the vault. 

 The radial summit areas consist of two rows of somewhat larger 

 plates, alternately arranged, which extend to the ventral covering 

 of the free rays, and probably throughout their full length. In 

 the median portion of the vault, there are six rather thin but large 

 apical dome plates. The summit, when the rays are extended, is 

 not higher than the top of the second radials; general surface de- 

 pressed. Column heavy, composed of very thin joints, tapering 

 rapidly downward; central perforation above medium size, pen- 

 tagonal. 



Onychocrinus is most nearly related to Taonocrinus, with Avhich 

 it is almost identical in the construction of the anal portions. It 

 differs, however, materially in the free rays, the arm structure, and 

 its greater expansive power. 



Lyon and Casseday took the free rays to be arms, and the true 

 arms to be pinnulae. These authors did not extend the genus to 

 forms like their Forbesiocr. ramulosus, which has only four radials 

 instead of five, as stated in their generic formula, though that 

 species has all the other characters of the genus. 



Hall has never recognized Onychocrinus as a genus, but placed 

 0. asteriaeformis ^ a typical form, under Forbesiocrinus. Meek 

 and Worthen, evidently considering the small lateral proboscis 

 the principal distinction between Onychocrinus and Forbesiocri- 

 nus, and not knowing that all Taxocrini have it, placed all species 

 of this group in which they observed this appendage under Ony- 

 chocrinus. 



Geographical and Geological Distribution Onychocrinus has 



been found only in the Subcarboniferous of Ireland and the United 

 States ; it embraces the following species : 



1861. Onychocr. asteriseformis Hall. (Forbesiocr. asteriaeformis), Descr. New 

 Crin. Prelim. Not., p. 9; also Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., vol. vii No. 2, p. 

 320. Meek and Worth Onychocrinus asteriaeformis Geol. Rep., Illinois, 

 vol. ii. p. 243. Upper Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 



1866. Onychocr. diversus Meek and Worth. Proceed. Acad Nat. Sci Phila., p. 

 256 ; also Geol. Rep., Illinois, vol. iii. p. 492. Upper Burlington limest. 

 Burlington, Iowa. 




278 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



* 



1859. Onychocr. exsculptus Lyon and Casseday (Typical species). Am. Journ. 



Sci., vol. 29, p. 78. Keokuk limest. Hardin Co., Ky., and Montgomery 



Co., Ind. Synom. Onychocr. (Forbesiocr.) Norwoodi Meek and Worth. 



Geol. Rep., Illinois, vol. ii. p. 245, pi. 17, fig. 3. 

 1875. Onychocrinus magnus Wortben. Geol. Rep., Illinois, vol vi. p. 520, pi. 



31, fig. 5. St. Louis limest. Monroe Co., 111. 

 1861. Onychocrinus Monroensis Meek and Worth. (Forbesiocr. Monroensis). 



Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci Phila., p. 130. 1866, Onychocr. Monroensis, 111. 



Geol. Rep., vol. ii. p. 244, pi. 17, fig. 7. Keokuk limest. Monroe Co., 



Illinois. 

 *1846. Onychocr. polydactylus McCoy. (Taxocr. polydactylus.) Synops. Carb., 



Ireland, p. 178, pi. 24, fig. 7. Subcarbon. Ireland. 

 *1859. Onychocr, ramulosus Lyon and Cass. (Forbesiocr. ramulosus L. and C, 



not Hall), Am. Journ. Sci., vol. 28, p. 235 Keokuk limest. Montgomery 



Co., Ind. 



10. NIPTEROCRINUS Wachsmuth. 



1868. Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 341. 

 1873. Geol. Rep. Illinois, vol. v. p. 434. 



This genus was originally referred b} r its author to the Cyotho- 

 crinidx, with which, indeed, it agrees in some of its peculiarities, 

 but a full understanding of the true nature of its structure shows 

 that it must be classified with the Ichtliyocrinidae. The number 

 of plates which constitute the proximal ring was not then, nor is 

 now, ascertained with certainty, owing to the fact that they ex- 

 tend but slightly beyond the column, and, though we are inclined 

 to think there are but three, we cannot as yet assert it positively. 

 The first radials in some points resemble those of Cyathocrinus, 

 being exceptionally large for the Ichthyocrinidae. They have above 

 a deep rounded sinus for the reception of the second radials, on each 

 side of which, the upper margin of the plate is nearly straight and 

 not incurved. The latter peculiarity, which was noticed in the 

 original description, suggests the presence of an interradial struc- 

 ture, and the continuance of the body between the so-called free 

 radials, otherwise this part would have to be more inflected for 

 the support of the dome. That an interradial structure existed 

 in the genus, is plainly seen in a specimen of N. Wachsmuthi M. 

 and W., now before us, from which we infer that the intenadials 

 extend most probably even to the succeeding order. This struc- 

 ture alone would be sufficient to place Nipterocrinus among the 

 Ichthyocrinidae, but it has also the peculiar lunulate second ra- 

 dials, the waving sutures, and strongly marked sinuosities of the 

 arm plates, and apparently no proboscis, not even a vestige of 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



that organ having been discovered, though we had occasion to 

 examine on this point some remarkably perfect specimens. 



Revised Generic Diagnosis. Body, with arms included, short ; 

 the fivg nays equilateral ; arms divergent. Plates of calyx un- 

 usually thin, and, as far as the top of the first radials, forming a 

 basin or depressed cup composed of immovable plates. Succeed- 

 ing plates, though connected laterally, movable. 



Underbasals small, scarcely extending beyond the column. 

 Basals much smaller than the first radials, all pentangular and 

 of equal size. Radials three to four by five. First radials com- 

 paratively much larger than in any other genus of this family ; 

 articulating face concave, and occupying less than one-half the 

 width of the plate; the upper margins on both sides of the scar 

 nearly straight, almost horizontal, scarcely inflected, and support- 

 ing the interradial portions which are rarely preserved, leaving 

 in their place, in the fossil, a wide, open space between the rays. 

 Second and third radials short, often three or four times wider 

 than high, lunulate, resting in the concavity of the preceding 

 plate; the bifurcating plate almost triangular. Succeeding order 

 of plates constructed like those of the arm, only larger, all of 

 them much wider than high, rounded on the back, with distinct 

 waving sutures showing deep sinuosities when the arms are 

 closed, and indicating a great mobility in these parts. Arms 

 divergent, tapering gradually ; pinnulae unknown. No interra- 

 dials to the top of the first radials, but the succeeding radials, and 

 probably the first plate of the next order, connected by an inter- 

 radial integument, the true nature of which has not been fully 

 ascertained, being probably similar to that in Taxocrinus, but 

 composed of larger plates. Column round, thick, composed near 

 the calyx of narrow joints. 



Only two species are known, and both are from the Burlington 

 limestone : 



1873. Nipterocrinus arboreus Wortheh. Geol. Rep. Illinois, vol. v. p. 436, pi. 4, 

 fig. 8. Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 



1868. Nipterocrinus Wachsmuthi Meek and Worth. (Type of the genus.) Pro- 

 ceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p 34] ; also Geol. Rep. Illinois, vol. v. p. 435, 

 pi. 2, fig. 4. Upper Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



11 RHOPALOCRINUS nov. gen. 

 (poVaXov, a club, xpivov, a lily.) 



Schultze, in his Monogr. d. Echinod. d. Eifl. Kalkes, p. ^9, de- 

 scribes a form under the name of Taxocrinits gracilis, which is 

 very interesting, inasmuch as it combines, to some extent, the 

 characters of several families. There are only five arms, which 

 remain simple throughout their entire length, forming a straight 

 line with the radials a peculiarity found in no other genus of the 

 Ich.thyo'cri^idx. This attracted the attention of Schultze, who 

 suggested either a modification of the genus Taxocrinits, so as to 

 admit this species, or the recognition of a new genus. In the 

 former proposition we cannot concur, as it seems to us we must 

 admit such peculiarities as exist in this species to be generic dis- 

 tinctions, or throw all forms of the Ichthyocrinidse into a single 

 genus. As to this genus, we even entertain some doubts whether 

 it belongs to the same family. 



Our genus Rhopalocrinus, with R. ( Taxocr.) gracilis Schultze, 

 as type, agrees in general form rather with Cupressocrinus, Sym- 

 bathocrinus and Graphiocrinus representing as many distinct 

 families than with Taxocrinits; but it differs from all of them in 

 having a series of small plates inclosed between the rays. These 

 plates, whjch Schultze calls " interbrachials," fill up, according to 

 his description, "the intermediate spaces to the top of the second 

 radials," being thus included within the body. If we were sure 

 that this was the case, we should, notwithstanding the simple 

 arm structure, place Rhopalocrinus, without hesitation, under the 

 Ichthyocrinidse; but, as it is, the preservation of these parts is 

 not so satisfactory as to exclude another interpretation. The so- 

 called interbrachial plates are seen only in one interradial space, 

 and, as all successive plates from the radials to the tips of the arms 

 have the same form (with the exception of the first one, which is 

 three to four times shorter, but otherwise similar), and an almost 

 circular articulating surface, which has never been observed in 

 plates forming part of the body, it seems quite possible that all 

 branches were free, and that the small plates were deposited 

 accidentally, being either plates of the vault, or perhaps remains 

 of tiie pieces which once oovered the arm furrows. 1 This of 



1 The type specimen with Dr. L. Schultze's entire collection is now in 

 the Museum of Compar. Zoology at Cambridge. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 281 



course would remove Iihopalocrinus from the Ichthyocrinidse, 

 and bring it in close relation with such genera as Symbathocrinus 

 and Pisocrinus, with which it agrees in its arm structure and in 

 the narrow proboscis, which probablv extended in those genera to 

 the extremities of the arms. 



We propose the following generic diagnosis: General form of 

 bod}', including arms, subelavate, with bilateral S3nnmetry ; plates 

 heavy. Underbasals three, scarcely visible beyond the column. 

 Basals five, four of them equal, regular^ pentangular, the fifth 

 much higher, becoming narrower toward the top, truncated above 

 for the accommodation of the proboscis. Radials placed in a 

 direct line with the arms ; one ring only constituting a part of the 

 solid body, all succeeding ones be'ng more or less movable. First 

 radial large, heavy, the articulating face occupying almost the 

 entire width of the plate, circular, facing slightly outward, and 

 perforated with an opening which communicates with the inte- 

 rior body and with a passage toward the dorsal side of the arras. 

 Second radials, or first brachial plates, wide but short, evidently 

 movable, probably connected interradially (between the rays) by 

 small polygonal plates. Succeeding plates all of the same width 

 and form as those of the preceding ring; their height, however, 

 three or four times greater. Arms five, simple throughout, and 

 closely resembling those of Symbathocrinus ; length unknown, of 

 almost uniform size up to the sixth plate. Ambulacral furrow 

 covered by two rows of plates roofed together, with the median 

 line elevated. Anal area supporting a lateral proboscis similar 

 to that of Onychocriniis, but heavier, and probably extending up 

 to the top of the arms, as in Symbathocrinus. Interradial spaces 

 apparently filled b} r very small, uneven polygonal plates up to the 

 second brachial. Column large, almost cylindrical, and composed 

 of larger and smaller joints near the body. 



The only known species is 



*1866. Rhopalocrinus gracilis Schultze. (Taxocr. gracilis Schultze, not Taxocr. 

 gracilis Meek and Worth.) Monogr. Echinod. Eifl. Kalkes, p. 39, pi. 4, 

 figs 3, 3 a. Devonian. Eifel, Germ. 



19 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



Family II. CYATHOCRINIDiE. 



The C3 T athocrinidfe represent not only one of the largest but 

 also one of the earliest groups of the Palaeocrinoidea, and they 

 survived every other family of that sub-order. 



J. S. Miller, the author of Poteriocrinus and Cyathocrinus, the 

 two principal genera, placed the former among the Semiarticulata 

 and the latter under the Tnarticulata, which he understood to re- 

 present two distinct families. Poteriocrinus, accoi'ding to his 

 views, had the plates of the calyx articulating imperfectly with 

 each other, while the plates of Cyathocrinus were closely joined 

 by sutures lined with muscular integument. It is unnecessary to 

 examine Miller's divisions in detail, as they are based upon theory 

 and incorrect observation, as is further shown by the fact that un- 

 der the Inarticulata he united Cyathocrinus with Actinocrinus, 

 Rhodocrinus and Platycrinus, which are of course totally dis- 

 tinct. 



Thorn. Austin's classification (1843, Rec. and Foss. Crin.) is 

 equally unsatisfactory. He followed Miller in separating Cyatho- 

 crinus and Poteriocrinus into two distinct families, placing the 

 former among the Platycrinidae, and including therein Caryocri- 

 nus ; and Poteriocrinus with Symbathocrinus amoug the Poterio- 

 crinidae. The former group is based simply upon the presence of 

 but few plates in the calyx. In the Poteriocrinidae, according to 

 Austin, "the lower series of plates surrounding the body, rest on 

 and articulate on the superior columnar joint, which also articu- 

 lates by radiating striae to the concealed dorso-central (basal) 

 plate." By the " concealed dorso-central plate" Austin meant a 

 little tripartite plate, which he and Phillips supposed they had 

 discovered in Poteriocrinus within the ring of the underbasals, 

 but which has been seen by nobody else, and in fact does not 

 exist. The radiating striae, however, are found between the calyx 

 and column, and all along the latter between the joints in all pe- 

 dunculate Crinoids. His disposition of Cyathocrinus is no 

 better, as he arranges it in the same family with Caryocrinus, 

 which is a Cystidean. With our present knowledge it is evident 

 that Austin's divisions are wholly arbitrary, and not accoi'ding 

 to nature. 



The next attempt at classification was made by Prof. Roemer 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 283 



(1855, Lethsea Geognostica, Ausgabe III., Period I.), who went 

 to the opposite extreme by uniting Miller's typical species of 

 Cyathocrinus with Poteriocrinus, and placing the latter with 

 Woodocrinus, Homocrinus , Dendrocrinus, 31espilocrinus, and 

 Thysanocrinus under the Poteriocrinidae. It has been explained 

 elsewhere that Roemer adopted the generic name Cyathocrinus 

 with Miller's Cyathocrinus tuberculatus as type for another group 

 of Crinoids, which had been previously separated by Phillips 

 under Taxocrinus, and ranged these with Ichthyocrinus and a 

 number of other genera under the family name " Cyathocrinidse." 

 It will thus be understood that Roemer's Cyathocrinidae really 

 represent our Ichthyocrinidae, and his Poteriocrinidae our Cyatho- 

 crinidae. He united in the former an assemblage of very distinct 

 groups, and among his Poteriocrinidae are found Mespilocrinus, 

 which, as we believe, belongs to the Ichthyocrinidae, and Thysa- 

 nocrinus, which is distinct from any of these families. 



Angelin, in his systematic arrangement of the Gotland Crinoids 

 (Iconogr. Crin. Suec), very correctly places Sicyocrinus, Eus- 

 pirocrinus, Ophiocrinus, and Botryocrinus among the Cyathocri- 

 nidae ; but Gissocrinus, which closely agrees with Cyathocrinus, 

 except in having three underbasals instead of five, be classes (ap- 

 parently on account of this structure alone) with the Forbesio- 

 crinidae. We have already, in our introductory remarks, noted 

 the difficulty of classifying the genera according to the number 

 of proximal plates, and in Gissocrinus we have a good example 

 of this. 



A close and comparative stud}' of the genera Cyathocrinus and 

 Poteriocrinus has convinced us that, though the two are very dis- 

 tinct genericall}', they are, as between themselves and in connec- 

 tion with many other genera, united by very important structural 

 features, and by right ought to be regarded as of one family. 

 They all agree 



1. In having large oral plates supporting^the ambulacral grooves 

 and covering the ventral disc, but leaving an opening at the oral 

 centre, which is perfectly covered by the apical dome plates. 

 Food grooves along the vault closed by two rows of alternating 

 pieces. 



2. In the presence of a porous ventral sac, located posteriorly, 

 and closed at the top, in which the anal functions were subordi- 

 nate to other offices, probably in connection with respiration and 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1819. 



perhaps reproduction. Anal opening rarely observed, evidently- 

 lateral not posterior and low down. 



3. In having the calyx constructed of only three rings of plates 

 alternating with each other. Proximal or underbasal plates some- 

 times imperfectly developed or even wanting ; the plates of this 

 order rarely anchylosed. No interradials, but anal plates gener- 

 ally found within the calyx. 



These are the dominant characters upon which we propose to 

 establish the Cyathocrinidae as a family. 



An attempt to subdivide this family by means of differences in 

 the construction of the anal area and presence or absence of pin- 

 nulre into two groups, represented by Poteriocrinus and Cyatho- 

 crinas, proved unsuccessful. It is true the two typical genera 

 are well distinguished by these characters, and most genera from 

 {he Carboniferous might readily be separated in this wajr ; but it 

 would be very difficult with the Silurian genera, in which the 

 anal area is imperfectly developed. Such a division might pos- 

 sibly be established if we had before us the living types instead 

 of fossils, and it is very likely that the earlier forms, which include 

 HeAerocrinus, Iocrinus, Dendrocrinus, Carabocrinus, Hybocri- 

 nus, and Anomalvcrinus, in which the proximal plates or under- 

 basals are as 3'et very small and scarcely visible, might also be 

 arranged in a division by themselves. So, too, Woodocrinua, 

 Zeacrinus, Hydreionocrinus, and Coeliocrinus are well charac- 

 terized by their enormous balloon-shaped ventral sac; and in like 

 manner Ewpachycrinus, Erisocrimis, and Stemmatocrinus, b} T the 

 dwarfing of the same organ to its minimum size, represent a 

 transition in the direction of the Encrinidae. All these groups 

 apparently have some claim to be classed independently, but in 

 doing so we should rather increase than diminish the difficulties 

 before us, and gain nothing in the end. The genera are so closely 

 linked together, and shade so easily from one to another, and 

 from one group into another, that a satisfactory separation is 

 next to impossible. But, in order to facilitate the comparative 

 study of the genera, we have arranged them sj'stematically in 

 such a manner that allied types ai*e brought together in the order 

 in which they pass into one another, and we are confident that 

 this arrangement will materially assist in the recognition of the 



genera. 



The following is the list: 




1879.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



285 



CYATHOCRINIDiE. 



Earlier or embryonic types : 



1. Heterocrinus Hall. 



2. Iocrinus Hall. 



3. Anomalocrinus Meek & "Worth. 



Typical Cyathocrinidse: 



6. Gyathocrinus Miller. 



7. Leeythocrinus Zittel (J. Miiller). 



8. Gissocrinus Angelin. 



9. Arachnocrinits Meek & Worth. 

 10. Vasocrinus Lyon. 



Poteriocrinus type: 



14. Poteriocrinus Miller. 



Subgenus Scaphiocrinus Hall 



(modified by W. & Spr.). 

 Subgenus Parisocrinus W. &Spr. 

 Subgenus Pachylocrinus 



W. & Spr. 

 Subgenus Scytalocrinus W. & Spr. 



4. Hybocrinus Billings. 

 Subgenus Homocrinus Hall. 



5. Dendrocrinus Hall. 



11. Ophiocrinus Angelin. 



12. Botryocrimis Angelin. 

 Subgenus Sicyocrinus Angl. 



13. Barycrinus Wachsmuth. 



Subgenus Decadocrinus 



W. & Spr. 

 15. Graphioerimis de Kou.&Leh. 

 Subgenus Bursacrinus 



Meek & Worth. 

 Subgenus (?) Phialocrinus 



Trautschold. 



1 Since writing our classification, Prof. Zittel of Munich, with whom we 

 have exchanged notes informs us that he has separated the genera which 

 we have united under Cyathocrinidse into four families. (Handbuch der 

 Petrefactenkunde, 3te Lieferung, now in press.) 



without pinnulae, arms covered with plates. 



1. Hybocrinidse 



2. Cyathocrinidse 



3. Poteriocrinidse > with piunulfe . 



4. Heterocrinidse 5 



"We doubt whether this division can be maintained practically. Hetero- 

 crinus is certainly more closely related to Hybocrinus, which he disposes 

 under a separate family, than to Graphiocrinus, Philocrinus, Erisocrinus, 

 and Stemmatocrinus with which he groups it. The variety of Poteriocrinus, 

 which we have proposed to call Scytalocrinus, has such close affinities to 

 Graphioerimis that it might well be doubted whether it would be considered 

 as a subgenus of Poteriocrinus or Graphiocrinus. If a division of the Cya- 

 thocrinidse should prove desirable, it would seem to us more natural to bring 

 together Heterocrinus with Hybocrinus and Anomalocrinus, and to place 

 Graphiocrinus and allied genera under the Poteriocriuidaa ; but this would 

 interfere with the division according to pinnulse. The difficulties in the 

 way of a subdivision, which we have discussed at length in our general 

 remarks on the family, do not seem to us to be obviated by the proposed 

 arrangement of our distinguished colaborer. 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1819. 



Zeacrinus type : 



16. Woodocrinus de Koninck. 18. Hydreionocrinus de Koninck. 



17. Zeucrinus Troost. Subgenus(?) Cceliocrinus White. 



Transition forms toward Encrinus : 



19. Eupachycrinus Meek & Worth. 21. Stemmatocrinus Trautschold. 



20. Erisocrinus Meek & Worth. 



Genera insufficiently known : 



22. Euxpirocrinus Angelin. 25. Pacfiyocrinus Billings. 



23. Carabocrinus Billings. 26. Myelodactylus Hall. 



24. Cyriidocrinus Angelin. 



In some species of Heterocrinus, one of the oldest of known 

 genera, the underbasals or proximal plates are apparently want- 

 ing; in others they are so imperfectly developed that Meek did 

 not think proper to recognize them by the usual term, but called 

 them sub-basals. If it happens that these plates are absent, as 

 seems to be sometimes the case, in species which apparently belong 

 to the same genus, it would seem improper to separate Hetero- 

 crinus on that ground alone, and this consideration has induced 

 us also to place in this family, at least for the present, the allied 

 genera Hybocrinus and Anomalocrinus, in which as yet no trace 

 of these plates has been discovered, but which otherwise have all 

 the characters of the typical Cyathocrinida?. The family re- 

 lations as to these genera are not altogether clear, and it will re- 

 quire further study and better material before we can expect to 

 understand them fully. For the present we will content ourselves 

 with drawing attention to some peculiarities in the structure of 

 these early Crinoids in hope that it may lead eventually to in- 

 teresting results. 



We find that in Poteriocrinus, Zeacrinus, and in fact in all typi- 

 cal Cyathocrinidae in which columnar or radicular cyrrhi have 

 been observed, these appendages are radially situated. This is 

 best observed and traced in species with a pentagonal stem, 

 wherein the direction can be noted even in fragmentary pieces. 

 The cirrhi here occur always along the lateral faces, and in the 

 last-named genera, so far as observed, they are alwaj^s radial, 

 while the acute angles which are formed into elevated ridges along 

 the column are interradial. The A r ery opposite is the case in 

 Heterocrinus and Iocrinus, in which the cirrhi are interradial, and 

 the ridges of the column radial, exactly as in Belemnocrinus, and 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



apparently in the Actinocrinidoe and Platycrinidae. This might 

 have induced us to place Helerocrinus and Iocrinus in a separate 

 division along with Hybocrinus and Anomalocrinus, which latter 

 two evidently belong to the same group, if we had not discovered 

 that the same diversity of structure apparently exists in species 

 of another family. In all Pentacrini, recent or fossil, that have 

 come under our observation, the cirrhi are radial and the ridges 

 interradial, with the exception of Pentacrinus Johnsoni, in which 

 according to Austin's figure (Rec. and Foss. Crin., PI. 15, Fig. i.) 

 the cirrhi are situated interradially as in Iocrinus. Owing to 

 this interesting coincidence, and also to the fact that in Dendro- 

 crinus, which in many respects closely resembles Helerocrinus 

 and its above-named associates, this columnar structure is the 

 same as in all typical genera, we have retained these genera 

 for the present in this family. We also retain those genera in 

 which the five underbasals are metamorphosed into three, as in 

 Gissocrinus, contrary to Angelin and Zittel, or into a single plate, 

 as in Stemmatocrinus, provided they otherwise agree with the 

 family. 



In the Cyathocrinidse, the anal area, though constructed of com- 

 paratively few plates, affords most excellent generic distinctions in 

 their arrangement. We note two principal forms; the one, which 

 we may call the Poteriocrinus form as it is best illustrated in 

 that genus is generally composed of three plates in the calyx, 

 which are arranged unsyrnmetrically and always directed toward 

 the right side of the body; the other, or Oyathocrinus anal 

 arrangement, with a bilateral symmetry, consists of a single plate, 

 which rests upon the truncate posterior basal. The former occurs 

 in connection with regular pinnulse along the arms; in the latter 

 the arm furrows are covered by small alternate pieces and the 

 pinnulse are wanting. 



There is scarcely any difficulty in referring all Cyathocrinidae, 

 from the Upper Silurian to the close of the Carboniferous, to one 

 of those two groups, though the anal plates vary in form more or 

 less in every genus. In genera from the Lower Silurian this 

 is more difficult. Yet there appears to exist even among the 

 latter and in connection with all others, an easy gradation which 

 indicates that both forms had very probably the same origin, and 

 that the later ones were gradually developed from the earlier 

 Silurian types. 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



Looking first at the subgenus Iocrinus, one of the earliest 

 known forms of Crinoids, we find the body up to the top of the 

 radials perfectly equilateral, all basal and radial plates having the 

 same form ; but higher up this symmetry becomes disturbed by 

 irregularities in the disposition of the brachial plates. There are 

 four brachials in four of the rays, short and all quadrangular, 

 while the right posterior radial supports a peculiar bifurcating 

 plate of the same width as the other brachials and apparently 

 similarly articulated. Its right sloping side supports four bra- 

 chials, its left a number of large, heavy, almost quadrangular 

 plates, longitudinally arranged, rounded on the back, which have 

 the general appearance of arm plates, and such they have been 

 taken to be by most authors. They are, however, plates of a 

 rather strong ventral sac, and extend to its full length forming a 

 highly elevated ridge (PI. 16, Fig. 3). The plates are bordered on 

 each side bj' about double their number of rather delicate pieces, 

 altogether different and transversely arranged, which from their 

 peculiar elongate form and relative position resemble pinnulse be- 

 longing to an appendage that looks like an arm. Now the ques- 

 tion arises, what shall we call the bifurcating plate which gives 

 rise both to the right posterior ray and to the ventral tube? It 

 was certainly a movable plate, and as we mentioned before, its 

 mode of articulation was evidently the same as that of the bra- 

 chials. Shall it likewise be called a brachial? And again, was not 

 the ventral tube here, and in Crinoids generally, originally a 

 modified arm? This, if true, would at once explain why the anal 

 area leans always toward the right and never to the left side of 

 the bod}'. Is the plate, on the contrary, an anal plate? If so, the 

 arms in that ray would rest upon the base of the proboscis, which 

 is not very probable. That it is a brachial with interradial func- 

 tions, is illustrated in other genera. In D ndrocrinus, as may 

 be seen, PI. 16, Fig. 5, the case is substantially the same, but in 

 that genus a regular anal plate has already appeared within the 

 calyx, supporting the ventral sac. Here four of the radials are 

 equal instead of four brachials, and the fifth is a compound plate 

 consisting of two successive plates of about the form of the simple 

 ones, but slightly larger. Nobodj T can doubt that here both the 

 upper and lower sections of the compound plate, which are sepa- 

 rated by a horizontal suture, are strictly radial. Looking, however, 

 at Homocrinus, PL 16, Fig. 6, it will be found, although it diners 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



from Dendrocrinus only in having the suture between the sections 

 of the compound plate sloping instead of horizontal, that by this 

 in itself trifling alteration, which required no modification in the 

 form or construction of other plates, the lower portion of ^ie 

 original compound radial became transformed into an anal plate. 

 This was the first step towards a Poterocrinus anal arrangement, 

 and in fact to complete it required only the interposition of a 

 third small plate (PL 16, Fig. 7). In confirmation of this idea it is 

 very significant that Dendrocrinus is essentially a Lower Silurian 

 genus, that Homowinus is restricted to the Niagara group, and 

 Poteriocrinus is pre-eminently a subcarboniferous form. 



The step from Dendrocrinus to Cyathocrinus (PL 16, Fig. 8) 

 was equally simple, and required only the consolidation of the 

 compound plate into one, the simple anal plate being already 

 developed in the former. Sometimes, however, in genera wherein 

 otherwise the Cyathocrinus anal arrangement prevails, there is 

 found alongside of the single anal plate in some species occa- 

 sionally only in a few specimens, and in Barycrinus and Botryo- 

 crinus almost as a rule a supplementary anal piece obliquely in- 

 terposed toward the right side, standing as a witness to the com- 

 mon origin of this and all anal plates. That there has never been 

 observed a single instance in which the anal area was directed 

 toward the left not even an abnormal case is most significant, 

 and is strong evidence in favor of our opinion, that the ventral 

 sac originated iir the right posterior ray. It proves also that the 

 modifications which we have mentioned as taking place in the 

 family in geological succession, are occasionally found within the 

 limits of a genus. 



It is to be regretted that the ventral sac, owing to its position, 

 hidden between the arms, is so rarely observed. A better know- 

 ledge of this organ, we have no doubt, would enable us to base 

 upon it excellent generic distinctions, and it might perhaps assist 

 in establishing subdivisions in this family. Very little is known, 

 for instance, of the distribution and position of the pores and 

 fissures, of the anal opening, etc., and nothing as to its internal 

 organization. 



In the Lower Silurian the ventral sr,c attained large dimensions. 

 In the age of the Niagara group, Upper Silurian, it became re- 

 markable for its singular form, in some genera coiling upon itself, 

 or bending in all directions. In the Devonian and earlier Subcar- 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



boniferous it attained the maximum in length, and the cylindrical 

 form prevails, but this by degrees changed into the club-shaped 

 form, from which in the succeeding geological epochs, toward the 

 close of the Subcarboniferous, those monstrous balloon-shaped 

 sacs were developed, and with these, as if a culmination had been 

 reached, the family actually terminates. The few forms which 

 still survive can no longer be considered as true types of the 

 Cyathocrinidse. They are of a type prophetic of a new family 

 which is soon to appear, and of which Encrinus is the leading 

 genus. The resemblance of Stemmatocrinus to Encrinus is in- 

 deed so strong that one may well hesitate in which of the two 

 families Cyathocrinidoe or Encrinidai it should be classed. 

 We should probably have decided in favor of the latter, if we had 

 seen any possibility of separating Stemmatocrinus from Eupa- 

 chycrinns, and Eupachycrinus from Poteriocrinus, and so on. 

 The only real difference which we notice between the two is that 

 in Encrinus the three rings of plates which form the calyx, in the 

 Cyathocrinidae constitute an almost flat disc, or so shallow a cup 

 that there would be no space for a visceral cavity if covered by 

 solid plates, and, as no trace of a ventral covering has ever been 

 observed, it is very probable that Encrinus belongs to the Stoma- 

 tocrinoidea. 



The free floating Agassizocrinus (Astylocrinus Roemer) is an- 

 other form, in regard to which doubts might be entertained 

 whether it ought not to be ranked with the Cyathoerinidoe. Its 

 younger stage, wherein it was pedunculate, agrees well in general 

 structure with Eupachycrinus, and is very appropriately called 

 the Cyathocrinoid form. We think it better, however, to separate 

 the genus by itself, as in the case of Pentacrinus and Comatula, 

 and to place it under Aslytocrinidae. in a distinct group. 



General Family Diagnosis. Calyx composed of only three 

 rings of plates alternating with each other, each ring composed 

 of five plates; all succeeding plates free. The proximal ring or 

 underbasals not unfrequently hidden from view by the column, 

 perhaps in some cases wanting, rarely anchylosed so as to form 

 three plates or a single one. The plates of the second ring gener- 

 ally varying in form, the posterior one frequently truncate. Those 

 of the third ring or the radials, more or less pentagonal, the right 

 posterior one often smaller on account of interposed anal plates. 

 The succeeding order of plates which have been generally desig- 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



nated as "free radiaU," but for which we have adopted the term 

 " brachials," consists of one to two or more by five plates on which 

 the arms originate. 



Arras simple or branching, comparatively long; either provided 

 with rather strong pinnulse, alternately arranged, or, in the ab- 

 sence of these, the ambulacral groove is covered with two rows 

 of alternating pieces, more or less wedge-shaped, sometimes 

 strongly cuneiform, and interlocking. 



There are from one to four anal plates within the calyx. When 

 there is a single anal, the symmetry of the body is generally bila- 

 teral, but, in case of two or more, the form is irregular, because 

 the plates tend obliquely toward the right side of the body. The 

 anal plates support a ventral sac, which is cylindrical, convoluted, 

 club- or balloon-shaped, and which occasionally attains immense 

 proportions. The sac is bordered with rows of pores or fissures; 

 its upper extremity closed, so far as observed ; the anal opening 

 lateral. Interradial plates proper entirely wanting. 



Calyx surmounted by five large oral plates, with a central 

 opening between them, and forming at their sutures five shallow 

 ambulacral grooves converging toward the centre. Central open- 

 ing covered by the apical dome plates, and the five grooves arched 

 over by two rows of small immovable pieces, alternately arranged. 



Column round or pentagonal. 



The Cyathocrinidae differ from the Ichthyocrinidse in having a 

 solid inflexible vault, built up of oral plates; in possessing but a 

 single radial to each ray; and in the absence of interradial plates. 



1. HETEROCRINE Hall. 

 (Diagram PL 16, Fig. 2.) 



1843.'lall. Geol. Rep. New York, vol. i. p. 278. 

 1859. Billings. Geol. Surv. Canada, Decade IV. p. 48. 



1865. Meek and Worthen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 147. 



1866. Hall. 24th Rep. N. Y. State Cab. Nat. Hist,, p. 210. 

 1873. Meek. Geol. Surv. Ohio. Palreont., vol. i. p. 2. 



The genus Heterocrinus varies from the typical Cyathocrinidae 

 in several important particulars : first, in the apparent absence of 

 underbasals in some of the species ; second, in certain irregulari- 

 ties in the radial plates. In the former respect it agrees with 

 Hi/bocrinus and Anomalocrinus, in the latter with Dendrocrinus. 



The irregularities in the radial parts seem at first sight to be 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



totally at variance with the elemental 1 }* plan of structure in the 

 family, as the calyx here appears to be composed of more than five 

 radial plates, some of the rays having apparently two or even more. 

 Looking at Diagram PI. 16, Fig. 2, showing the arrangement of 

 plates in H. simplex Hall, it will be found that in the anterior 

 and right posterior rays, there are three plates in succession, 

 whereas there are four in each of the other rays. But it will be 

 also observed that the first radial plate in the former is about 

 equal in size to the first two plates combined in the three other 

 rays. It is, therefore, not unreasonable to suppose that the two 

 here represent a compound plate, and are homologous with the 

 single radial in other Cyathocrinidae. This interpretation fully* 

 restores the family* relations, the two succeeding plates being con- 

 sidered as true brachials. A similar construction exists in Den- 

 drocrinus, but there only the left posterior radial is compound. 



The absence of underbasals in some of the species is a good 

 illustration of our view that the underbasals do not constitute 

 principal elements in the structure of the Paloeocrinoidea, but 

 are merely the result of growth and development in geological 

 time. Even Meek, who calls the proximal plates in all other 

 genera of the Cyathocrinida? basals, substitutes for those of 

 Heterocrinus the name "subbasals." 



Generic Diagnosis. General form elongate and slender. Calyx 

 small, subcylindrical, tapering but slightly from the column 

 upward. 



Underbasals minute, in some species almost undeveloped, and 

 appearing externally as subtrigonal points at the lower ends of 

 the sutures between the basals; in some species apparently 

 w*anting entirely. Basals five, subequal, pentangular. Radials 

 irregular; some of the rays differing from those of other genera 

 in having compound instead of simple plates, which are divided 

 by horizontal sutures; upper articulating margin straight. The 

 radials are succeeded by two to four brachials, quadrangular, the 

 upper one a bifurcating plate and supporting the arms. 



Arms comparatively long, simple or branching, composed of 

 single joints with almost parallel suture. Pinnulae heavy, springing 

 alternately* from every second or third arm plate. 



Anals not supported by the basals, but resting upon the upper' 

 sloping margins of the adjoining radials. They consist of a single 

 row of plates, longitudinally arranged, the outer side rounded 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



and forming a prominent ridge, which gives the appearance of an 

 arm. 



The ventral sac in this genus is but imperfectly known, but it 

 is apparently not so robust as in Iocrinus. Column more or less 

 pentagonal. 



The genus Heterocrinus is known exclusively from the Lower 

 Silurian, and has been found only in America, unless Myelodacty- 

 lus (?) heterocrinus Angl., from the Upper Silurian, belongs to it. 



The following species have been discovered : 



1859. Heterocrinus articulosus Billings. Geol. Rep. Canada, Dec. iv. p. 51, pi. 



4, fig. 8. Trenton limest. Ottawa, Cannda. 

 1866. Heterocr. constrictus Hall. 24th Rep. N. Y. State Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 210; 



also Geol. Surv. Ohio, Palseont., vol. i. p. 3, pi. i. figs. 10 a, b. Hudson 



River Gr. Cincinnati, 0. 

 H. constrictus (var.) contractus Meek, 1S73. Geol. Surv. Ohio, vol. i. p. 



4, pi. i. fig. 11. Ibid. 



1866. Heterocr. exilis Hall. 24th Rep. N. Y State Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 213, pi. 5, 



fig. 16. Hudson River Gr. Cincinnati, 0. 

 H. exilis (var.) exiguus Meek, 1873. Geol. Surv. Ohio, Pal., vol. i. p. 5, 



pi. 1, fig. 12. Ibid. 

 1843. Heterocr. heterodactylus Hall. (Type of the genus.) Geol. Rep. N. Y., 



vol. i. pi. 76, fig. 11 a-o ; also Geol. Surv. Ohio, Pal., vol. i. p. 12, pi. i. 



figs. 1 a, b (2 a, b ? ). Hudson River Gr. Ohio and New York. 

 1859. Heterocr. inaequalis Billings, Geol. Rep. Canada, Dec. iv. p. 51, pi. 4, fig. 



7. Trenton limest. Ottawa, Canada. 

 1866. Heterocr. juvenis Hall. 24th Rep. N. Y. State Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 212, pi. 



5, figs. 9, 10 ; also Geol. Rep. Ohio, Pal., vol. i. pi. i. figs. 3 a-c. Hudson 

 River Gr. Cincinnati, O. 



1866. Heterocr. laxus Hall. 24th Rep. N. Y. State Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 211, pi. 5, 



fi^. 15 ; also Geol. Rep. Ohio, Pal., vol. i. p. 14, pi. i. figs. 8 a, b. Hudson 



River Gr. Cincinnati, O. 

 1843. Heterocr. simplex Hall. Geol. Rep. N. Y., vol i. p. 280, pi. 76, figs. 2 a-dj 



also Geol. Surv. Ohio, Pal., vol. i. p. 7, pi. i. figs. 4, 5 (6, 7?). Hudson 



River Gr. Cincinnati, O. 

 Syn. Heterocr. Canadensis Billings, 1859. Geol. Rep. Canada, Dec. iv. p. 



48, pi. 4, fig. 5. 

 1856. Heterocr. tenuis Billings, Geol Rep. Canada, p. 273; also Dec. iv. p. 50, 



pi. 4, figs. 6 a, b. Trenton limestone. Ottawa and Montreal, Canada. 



2 IOCRINUS Hall. 

 (Diagram PI. 16, Fig. 3.) 



1866. Desc. New Spec. Crin. by J. Hall, p. 5 ; reissued in 1872 in the 24th 

 Rep. N. Y. State Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 210. 



Prof. Hall, in re-describing Heterocrinus subcrassus Meek & 

 Worth, as Heterocr. (?) pohjxo, made use of the name Iocrinus 




294 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



for a subgenus. It seems that he was in doubt whether Iocrinus 

 should be placed with Helerocrinus or Poteriocrinus, as he sup- 

 posed these two genera to be closely related. In this Hall is cer- 

 tainly in error, since a close comparison proves them to be very 

 distinct. Neither can we conceive how such forms as Iocrinus 

 crassus can be referred to Heterocrinus. The two differ essen- 

 tially in the anal arrangement, and in the form and construction 

 of the radial plates, which are perfectly symmetrical and simple 

 in the former, but irregular and compound in the latter. Such 

 characters have heretofore always been considered of generic im- 

 portance, and we accordingly adopt Prof. Hall's name but in a full 

 generic sense, and propose for the genus Iocrinus the following: 



Generic Diagnosis. General appearance somewhat similar to 

 Pentacrinus; comparatively larger than Heterocrinus; arms 

 longer and more frequently bifurcating; calyx more broadly 

 spreading, and perfectby symmetrical up to the top of the radials, 

 giving the form of a short, inverted, pentagonal pyramid with 

 the five sides deeply concave. 



Underbasals undeveloped. Basals small, pentagonal. Radials 

 comparatively large, strong, all pentagonal, and of the same 

 height ; their upper margins truncated for nearly their entire 

 breadth for the junction of the succeeding pieces. Brachials 

 three to four in each ray, the upper one axillary, and supporting 

 the first free divisions of the arms. In the right posterior ray 

 there is interposed between the true brachials and radial plate a 

 pentagonal bifurcating piece, which is evidently free and mova- 

 ble like the brachials, and of the same width. This peculiar plate, 

 which is truly radial, supports on its right sloping side the usual 

 number of brachials, and on the left a row of*quadrangular plates, 

 vertically arranged, extending to the tips of the arms, and form- 

 ing the posterior wall of a large ventral tube. In external ap- 

 pearance these plates resemble the brachials and arm plates, only 

 they are somewhat higher and not quite as wide; they are gib- 

 bous, and form an elevated ridge, which causes this appendage to 

 resemble an arm or a branch of the ray, and so it was considered 

 by Hall in his description of Heterocr. polyxo. Both sides of the 

 mesial ridge are indented to accommodate other plates, of which 

 there are two to each median plate, one abutting against the mid- 

 dle part, and the other opposite the suture. These lateral plates 

 are delicate, three or four times wider than high, and, like the other, 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



longitudinally arranged. Each of them contains a rather deep 

 furrow, which in perfect specimens is arched over by a row of 

 wedge-shaped plates which stand out prominently and appear very 

 much like pinnulse. 1 



Arms bifurcating frequently, gradually tapering; arm pieces, 

 like the free radials, all projecting at the upper edge, thereby pro- 

 ducing a sort of imbrication. Pinnulse unknown. 



Column strong, distinctly pentagonal, the angles in line with 

 the radial plates of the body. 



Geological position. Lower Silurian. 



The following two species are the only examples of this genus: 



*1865. Iocrinus crassus Meek & Worthen. (Heterocr. crassus), Proc. Acad. 



Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 147; also Geol. Rep. 111., vol. iii. p. 325, pi. 4, figs. 



1 a-c ; also vol. v, pi. 23, fig. 1. Hudson River Gr Oswego, 111. 

 *1865. Iocr. subcrassus Meek & Worthen. (Heterocr. subcrassus), Proc. Acad. 



Nat. Sei. Phila., p. 148; also Oeol. Rep. 111., vol. iii. p. 325, pi. 4, figs. 



5 a-d ; also Meek, Heterocr. (Iocrinus) subcrassus, Geol. Surv. Ohio, Pal., 



vol. i. p. 15, pi. 1, figs. 9 a, b. Hudson River Gr. Cincinnati, Ohio. 

 Syn. Heterocr. (?) Iocrinus polyxo Hall, 1866. 24th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab. 



Nat. Hist., p. 210. 



3. ANOMALOCRINUS Meek and Worthen. 

 (Diagram PI. 16, Fig. 1.) 



1865. Heterocrinus (?) (Anomalocrinus) Meek & "Worth. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 148. 



1868. Hybocrinus? {Anomalocrinus) Meek & Worth. Geol. Rep. 111., 



vol. iii. p. 327. 



1869. Ataxocrinus Lyon. Am. Philos. Soc, vol. xiii. p. 464. 

 1873. Anomalocrinus Meek. Geol. Surv. Ohio, Pal., vol. i. p. 17. 



Generic Diagnosis. General form of the crinoid depressed, 

 cal} r x comparatively large, depressed subglobose ; its form ex- 

 tremely irregular, scarcely two plates being of the same shape. 



Underbasals unknown, and perhaps undeveloped. Basals five, 

 small, subequal, pentagonal, wider than high, partly hidden by the 

 column. Radials very large, of diverse forms, simple or compound, 

 the latter divided either horizontally or vertically. Of the com- 



1 It was to this peculiar structure that we alluded in our remarks on this 

 family, and the similarity in the appearance of the ventral sac and the arms 

 and pinnulo? is indeed most striking. If there is in nature any such thing 

 as a transmutation of one organ into another, it would seem that such was 

 the case here, and this may lead to a better understanding of the functions 

 of the ventral sac. 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



pound plates, those that are divided by horizontal sutures, occur 

 in similar rays as in Heterocrinus, being always found in the right 

 posterior and either in the left lateral, or in the anterior ray. The 

 radials of the remaining ra3 r s are either simple or bisected verti- 

 cally, the two halves taken together being similar in form to the 

 simple plates. The lower segment of the former compound plates 

 is subquadrangular, the upper one axillary and pentagonal, its 

 lower edge slightly concave to fit the convexity of the abutting 

 margin below. The ra} T s with simple radials have generally fewer 

 brachials than those with compound plates, and this gives to the 

 Crinoid that abnormal, irregular appearance which is the most 

 characteristic feature of the genus. 



Arms divergent at their origin ; long, slender, bifurcating irregu- 

 larly several times above, the divisions being often of unequal 

 size; rounded, and composed each of a single range of pieces. 

 Pinnulse strong. First anal plate resting transversely between 

 the upper sloping sides of the posterior radials ; succeeding plates 

 smaller and longitudinally arranged. 



Column stout, round, composed of very thin discs or segments, 

 and having near the base a large pentagonal opening. The seg- 

 ments have the appearance of being composed of numerous little 

 anchylosed spicula of irregular size and form (Meek). 



Anomalocrinus has its closest affinities with Heterocrinus, to 

 which it was referred in 1865 by Meek and Worthen as a subgenus. 

 Not so apparent are its relations to Hybocrinus, with which the 

 same authors afterwards similarly combined it. It certainly dif- 

 fers from them both very distinctly in the shallow and depressed 

 form of the body, in the form and arrangement of the radial 

 plates, and in the arms. 



Geological position. Lower Silurian, so far as known. 



Two species have been described : 



1869. Anomalocrinus caponiformis Lyon. (Ataxocrinus caponiformis), Trans. 



Am. Pbilos. Soc, vol. xiii. p. 464, pi. 27, figs. 0, 01, 02,03. Hudson River 



Gr. Cincinnati, Ohio, and Kentucky. 

 1865. Anomalocr. incurvus Meek & Worth. (Heterocrinus t (Anomalocr.) in- 



curvus), Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 148, 1868, Meek & Worth. 



Hybocrinus? (Anomalocr.) incurvus, Geol, Rep. 111., vol. iii. p. 327, pi 4, 



fig. 3 a, b. Hudson River Gr. Cincinnati, 0. The latter is probably a 



new species. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



4. HYBOCKINUS Billings. 

 (Diagram PI. 16, Fig. 4.) 



1856. Geol. Surv. Canada, p. 274, and Dec. IV. p. 23. 



('Apiocrinites Leuchtenberg, Haplocrinus Grewingh, Homocrinus, p.p. 

 Eicliw., Bcerocrinus Volborth, are synonymous. See Zittel's Handb. d. 

 Petrefactenkunde, p. 350.) 



Catyx globular or pj-riforni, one side protuberant ; composed 

 of 5 basals, 5 radials, and 2 anal plates. 



Underbasals not observed, and probably rudimentary. Basals 

 of equal size, pentagonal. The next ring of plates consists of a 

 large anal and four of the radials, all nearly equal in size, and 

 alternating regularly with the basals. The anal plate is hexa- 

 gonal, its two upper sides equal, the sloping right side supporting 

 a small radial, the left a second anal plate. Both of these plates 

 are wider than high, of about the same size,' which is about one- 

 third that of the plates below. They are separated by a vertical 

 suture, and rest by their outer edges against the upper portion of 

 the adjoining radials which are octagonal, while the other two are 

 heptagonal. 



Arms five, simple throughout, composed of rather heavy quad- 

 rangular joints, about as wide as high, decreasing in size slightly 

 upward. Pinnulse wanting. The ambulacral furrow is covered 

 by small alternating pieces, about five to each arm-joint. 



Column round, small. 



The unsymmetrical form of the calyx, produced by the protu- 

 berance of the posterior side ; the peculiar position and small size 

 of the right posterior radial, and the large anal plate in line with 

 the four larger radials, are the most remarkable features of this 

 genus, and those by which it is easily recognized. The small 

 radial evidently corresponds to the upper half of the compound 

 plate in Dendj'ocrinus, while the lower half, which is here appar- 

 ently absent, is perhaps represented in a portion of the large un- 

 divided anal plate. 



Geological position. Lower Silurian, and so far found only in 

 America. 



The following species have been discovered: 



1856. Hybocrinus conicus Billings (type of the genus), Geol. Surv. Canada, p. 274 ; 

 also Decade IV. p. 29, pi. 2, fig. 2 a, b. Trenton limestone. Ottawa, 

 Canada. 

 20 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



1856. Hybocr. lumidus Billings. Geol. Surv. Canada, p. 275; also Decade IV. p. 



28, pi. 2, figs. 1 a-e. Trenton limestone. Ottawa, Canada. 

 1859. Hybocr. pristinus Billings. Geol. Surv. Canada, Decade IV. p. 23, pi. 1, 



fie. 2 a. Chazy limestone. Montreal, Canada. 



5. DENDROCRINUS Hall. 



Diagram PI. 16, Fig. 5.) 



1852. Dendrocrinus Hall. Geol. Rep. N. Y., vol. ii. p. 193. 

 1859. Dendrocrinus Billings. Geol. Surv. Canada. Decade IV. p. 85. 

 1873. Dendrocrinus (subgenus of Poteriocrinus) Meek. Geol. Surv. Ohio, 

 Pal., vol. i. p. 20. 



A. Typical form. 



General form of the crinoid elongate and slender. Calyx ob- 

 conical, higher than wide, unsymmetrical. 



Underbasals five, similar in form, scarcely of medium size, but 

 extending beyond the column. Basals five, the largest plates in 

 the calyx; four of them equal, hexagonal, the fifth or posterior 

 one hep t agonal, truncate above for the support of a large anal 

 plate. Radials alternating with the basals all around, simple in 

 four of the rays, pentagonal and of about equal size. The right 

 posterior radial is compound, divided b}' a horizontal suture into 

 two halves, which, taken together, have about the form of the 

 simple plates, only slightly longer. Brachials two to five, some 

 long and narrow, and others short and wide. Anals one, sub- 

 quadrangular. 



Arms long, branching; ambulacral furrow deep. Pinnulse 

 "wanting. 



Dome unknown. Ventral sac strongly developed, composed of 

 numerous small, hexagonal, alternately interlocking plates of 

 equal size, strengthened by little transverse or slightly oblique 

 costfle, and so arranged as to present an ascending zigzag appear- 

 ance. 



Column pentagonal, or exceptionally round. 



The compound plate in the right posterior ray is one of the best 

 characters of Dendrocrinus, and distinguishes it readily from Gya- 

 thocrinus with which it is most likely to be confounded. The 

 lower h.ilf of the radial has nearly the same position and form as 

 the first oblique anal plate in Poteriocrinus, and both these plates 

 rest against the sloping side of the posterior basal, with an anal 

 plate on the left ; but while this plate in Dendrocrinus is succeeded 

 by the upper segment a radial plate separated by a horizontal 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 299 



suture (which becomes oblique in ITomocrinus), in Poteriocrinus 

 it supports a third anal plate, and by pushing the right radial to 

 one side assumes its oblique position which it maintains through- 

 out all genera of the Poteriocrinus group ; while in the Cyalho- 

 cr'inus group the compound radial becomes modified into a single 

 plate. 



Geological position. Lower Silurian with the exception of a 

 single species from the Niagara group. 



The following species are known : 



1856. Dendrocrinus acutidactylus Billings. Geol. Surv. Can., p. 266; also Dec. 



iv. p. 37, pi. 3, fig. 2 a, b. Trenton litnest. Montreal, Canada. 

 *1S43. Dendrocr. alternates Hall. (Poteriocr. alternatus.) Geol. Rep. N. Y., 



vol. i. p. 83, pi. 28, figs. 1 a-f. Trenton limest. Middleville, New York. 

 *1S70. Dendrocr. angustatus Meek & Worth. (Homocr. angustatus.) Proc. 



Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 30 ; also Geol. Rep. 111., vol. vi. p. 492, pi. 23, fig. 



8. Hudson River Gr. Illinois. 

 1866. Dendrocr. caduceus Hall. (Poteriocr. (Dendrocr.) caducous.) Descr. New 



sp. Crin. etc., p. 3; also 24th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab. Nat. Hist. 1872, p. 208, 



pi. 5, figs. 7, 8; also Geol. Surv. Ohio, Pal., vol. i. p. 26, pi. 3, figs. 1 a, b, c. 



Hudson River Gr. Lebanon, Ohio. 



1871. Dendrocr. Casei Meek. (Poteriocr. (Dendrocr.) Casei.) Am. Jour. Sci., 



vol. ii. (3d ser.) p. 295; also Geol. Rep. Ohio, Pal., vol. i. p. 28, pi. 3, figs. 

 2 a, b. c. Hudson River Gr. Richmond, Ind. 



1872. Dendrocr. Cincinnatiensis Meek. (Poteriocr. (Dendrocr.) Cincinnatien- 



sis.) Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 312; also Geol. Surv. Ohij, Pal., vol. i. 



p. 20, pi. 3, figs. 5 a, b. Hudson River Gr. Cincinnati, 0. 

 1856. Dendrocr. conjugans Billings. Geol. Surv. Can., p. 268; also Decade iv. p. 



41, pi. 4, figs. 1 a, b, and 2 a, b. Trenton limest. Ottawa, Canada. 

 1859. Dendrocr. cylindricus Billings. Geol. Surv. Can., Dec. iv. p. 44, pi. 3, figs. 



8 a, b. Trenton limest. Montreal, Canada. 

 1872. Dendrocr. Dyeri Meek. (Poteriocr. (Dendrocr.) Dyeri.) Proc. Acad. Nat. 



Sci. Phil., p. 314; Geol. Surv. Ohio, Pal., vol. i. p. 24, pi. 3, figs. 3 a, b. 



Hudson Riv. Gr. Cincinnati, 0. 

 1843. Dendrocr. gracilis Hall. (Poteriocr. gracilis Hall, not McCoy.) Geol. 



Rep. N. Y., vol. i. p. 84, pi. 28, figs. 2 a-d. Trenton limest. Middleville, 



N. Y. Syn. Poteriocr. subgracilis d'Orbigny. 

 1856. Dendrocr. gregarius Billings. Geol. Surv. Can., p. 265; also Dec. iv. p. 



36, pi. 3, figs. 1 a, b, c. Trenton limest. Ottawa, Canada. 

 1856. Dendrocr. Jewetti Billings. Geol. Surv. Can., Dec. iv. p. 43. Trenton 



limest. Bay of Quinte, Canada. 

 1856. Dendrocr. humilis Billings. Geol. Surv. Can., p. 270; Dec. iv. p. 39, pi. 3, 



fig. 4. Trenton limest. Ottawa, Can. 

 1856. Dendrocr. latibrachiatus Billings. Geol. Surv. Can., p. 270 ; also Dec. iv. 



p. 39, pi. 3, figs. 5 a, b, c. Hudson River Gr. Charleston Point, Anticosti. 

 1852. Dendrocr. longidactylus Hall (Type of the genus). Geol. Rep. N. Y., vol. 



ii. p. 193, pi. 43, figs. 1 a-k ; also pi. 42, figs. 7, a, b. Niagara Gr. Lock- 

 port, N. Y. 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



1868. (?) Dendrocr. Oswegoensis Meek & Worth. Geol. Rep. III., vol. iii. pi. 



4, fig. 4. (The specimen is too imperfect for identification ) Hudson River 



Gr. Oswego, 111. 

 *1867. Dendrocr. polydactylus Shumand. (Homocrinus polydactylus ) Trnns. 



Acad. Sci. St. Louis, vol. i. p. 78, pi. 1, fig. 6; also Geol Surv. Ohio Pal., 



vol. i. p. 22, pi. 3, fig. 9. Hudson River Gr. Richmond, Ind. 

 *1872. Dendrocr. posticus Hall (Poteriocr. posticus.) 24th Rep. N. Y. St. 



Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 209, pi. 5, figs. 5 and 6. Poteriocr. {Dendrocr.) posticus. 



Meek. Geol. Surv. Ohio, Pal., vol. i. p. 22, pi. 3, figs. 4 a, b, c. Hudson 



Riv. Gr. Cincinnati, 0. 

 1856. Dendrocr. probosciadiatus Billings Geol. Surv. Can., p. 267 ; also Dec. iv. 



p. 38, pi. 3, figs. 3 a-c. Trenton limest. Montreal, Can. 

 1856. Dendrocr. rusticus Billings. Geol. Surv. Can., p. 270 ; also Dec. iv. p. 41, 



pi. 3, figs. 7 a, b. Trenton limest. Ottawa, Can. 

 1856. Dendrocr. similis Billings. Geol. Surv. Can., p. 267; also Dec. iv. p. 40. 



Trenton limest. Ottawa, Canada. 

 1866. Dendrocr. tener Billings. Catalogue Foss. of Anticosti Hudson Riv. Gr. 



Anticosti. Miller's Cat. (We have no means of comparison.) 



B. Subgenus HOMOCRINUS Hall. 

 (Diagram PI. 15, Fig. 6.) 



1852. Geol. Rep. N. Y., vol. ii. p. 185. 



The following is Hall's generic description of Homocrinus: " Crin- 

 oidea having the calyces composed of three series of simple plates, 

 each series consisting of five plates, sometimes one or more irreg- 

 ular plates intercalated between the scapular or third series of 

 plates on one side ; arms proceeding from the summit of the third 

 series of plates, without tentacles." And he says further: "The 

 Crinoids constituting this genus have been referred to Poteriocri- 

 nus and Cyathocrinus, the structure of which genera are some- 

 what different. The two species given as Poteriocrinus in vol. i., 

 Palaeontology of New York, should be placed under this genus, 

 having the same simple structure and arrangement of plates, 

 arms, etc." 



The above description is so indefinite, that it includes almost 

 every genus of the Cyathocrinidae ; the only character mentioned 

 of generic value is the absence of pinnulae, in which it agrees, how- 

 ever, with Cyathocrinus and Dendrocrinus. The typical speci- 

 mens which Hall used for description were most unsatisfactory, 

 that of H. parvus being evidently a very young individual, Avhile 

 those of H. cylindricus are very imperfectly preserved. In Hall's 

 corrected list of the New York fossils he seems to have given up 

 both Dendrocrinus and Homocrinus, as he groups the species of 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 301 



both under Poteriocrinus. In 1861, however, he described two 

 new species under Homocrinus, from good specimens. They are 

 not Poteriocrinus, for they have no pinnuhe, nor Gyathocrinus, 

 for they have an extra intercalated plate above the basals ; nor 

 Dendrocrinus for that plate is not radial ; but their affinities are 

 the closest with the latter, with which they agree in all principal char- 

 acters. We therefore regard Homocrinus as a subgenus under 

 Dendrocrinus, and propose the following description, with Homo- 

 crinus scoparius Hall as type : 



General form and arrangement of plates like in the typical 

 Dendrocrinus, except at the posterior side where the lower por- 

 tion of the compound plate is pushed slightly to the rear, thereby 

 becoming a regular anal plate or support for the ventral sac. 

 Hence in Homocrinus only the upper portion of the compound 

 plate is a radial, and there are two anal plates, one subquad- 

 rangular, between the posterior radials, and supported on the 

 truncated basal; and a smaller one resting obliquely between two 

 basals, the right radial and the other anal plate. 



The underbasals are perhaps proportionally larger than in Den- 

 drocrinus. The arms have no pinnulae, and this, together with the 

 different arrangement of the anal plates forms the best distinction 

 from Poteriocrinus. The ventral sac is without mesial ridge or 

 lateral costse. Column, so far as observed, round. 



Geological position, etc. Upper Silurian in America. In 

 Europe it has been found in the Devonian. 



Six species are known : 



1852. ? Homocrinus cylindricus Hull. Geol. Rep. N. Y., vol. ii. p. 186, pi. 41, 

 figs. 2 a, b ; Hall, 1859, Poteriocr. cylindricus. Correct. List of N. Y. 

 Foss. Niagara Gr. Loekpnrt, N. Y. 



(The specimens are too imperfect for identification.) 



*1844. Homocr. fusiformis Roeuier. Rhein. Ueberganzsgeb., p. 61, pi. 3, fig. 2. 

 Schnur, Bactocrinitis fusiformis, Steininger's Geogr, Beschr. der Eifel, p. 

 38. Miiller, Poteriocrinus fusiformis, Neue Echin. d. Eifl. Kalk., p. 250, 

 pi. 2, fig. 2; also Schultze, Echinod. Eifl. Kalk., p. 45, pi. 5, fig. 1 a-g ; 

 Devonian. Eifel, Germany. 



*1868. Homocr. nanus Roemer. (Poteriocrinus nanus.) Paljeontographia, by 

 Wm. Dunker, p. 151, pi. 29, figs. 2, 3. Devonian. Bundenbach, Ger- 

 many. 



1852. Homocr. parvus Hall. Geol. Rep. N. Y., vol. ii. p. 185, pi. 41, figs. 1 a, b, c. 

 Poteriocrinus parvus Hall, 1859. Corr. List N. Y. Foss. Niagara limest. 

 Lockport, N. Y. 



(Probably a very young individual of some other species.) 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



1861 Homocr. proboscidialis Hall. Geol. Rep. N. Y., vol. iii. p. 38, pi. 82, figs. 



24, 25. Oriskany sandstone. Cumberland, Md. 

 1861. Homocr. scoparius Hall. (Type of the genus ) Geol. Rep. N. Y., vol. iii. 



p. 102, pi. i. figs. 1-9. Lower Helderberg. Litchfield, N. Y. 



6. CYATHOCRINUS Miller. 

 (Diagram PI. 1G, Fig. 8.) 



1821. Miller. A History of the Crinoidea, p. 85. 



1834. Agassiz. Mem. de la Soc. de Neuch., vol. i. 



1843. Austin. Monogr. Rec. and Foss. Crin., p. 59. 



1853. De Koninck and Lehon. Rech. s. les Crin. Carb. Belgique, p. 81. 



1858. Hall. Geol. Surv. Iowa, vol. i. pt. ii. p. 622. 



I860. Meek and Worthen. Geol. Rep. 111., vol. ii. p. 175. 



1873. Meek and Worthen. Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. p. 400. 



1877. Wachsmnth. Am. Journ. Sci. (August No.), p. 120. 



1878. Wachsm. and Springer. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 256. 



Syn. 1859. PalcBocrinus Billings. Geol. Rep. Can., Decade IV. p. 24. 

 Syn. SpJuerocrinus Roemer. 1851. Beitrage, z. foss. fauna a. 

 Rhein, p. 13. 



In the Thesaurus Devonico-Carboniferus, Dr. Bigsby calls Cya- 

 thocrinus very appropriately " a genus full of errors." This un- 

 fortunate condition is largely clue to the confusion existing among 

 Miller's typical species, which embrace an assemblage of very dis- 

 tinct types. It seems even doubtful whether an} 7 of his species 

 can be properly ranked within the genus, and this would naturally 

 suggest the question whether Cyathocrinus, as Roemer lias sug- 

 gested, ought not to be given up altogether. We are of opinion, 

 however, that the genus ought to stand, and that it can be so 

 amended as to include certain forms of Crinoids which have been 

 referred to it by later palaeontologists, and which cannot be in- 

 cluded in any other established genus. 



Miller describes the genus substantially as follows: "Column 

 round or pentangular; calyx composed of a saucer-shaped pelvis 

 consisting of five plates, on which are in successive series five costal 

 plates, five scapulse, and one intervening plate, with an arm pro- 

 ceeding from each scapula having two hands and several fingers." 

 A comparison will show that this description differs from Pote- 

 riocrinus in but a single point, viz., Cyathocrinus has but one 

 intervening or anal plate, Poteriocrinus two or more. 



Miller refers to Cyathocrinus the following four species : 1. C. 

 planus, which ought to be the type of the genus. 2. C. tubercu- 

 latus, which has since been referred to Taxocrinus. 3. C. rugosus 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



which Goldfuss made the tj'pe of Crotalocrinus. 4. C. quinquan- 

 gularis, which has been conceded to be a Poteriocrinus. As a 

 proof how indefinite was Miller's conception of the genus, it may 

 be noted that three of the four species are of distinct families, 

 while he himself places Poteriocrinus among the Semiarticulata, 

 and Gyathocrinus among the Inarticulata. 



G. planus is, therefore, the only species that need be considered 

 with reference to Gyathocrinus. The "pelvis" has the typical 

 saucer shape, with a subpentangular perforation. There are five 

 " costals," four of them hexagonal, the fifth with a truncated supe- 

 rior margin ; " scapulas" of similar form to those in Poteriocrinus., 

 having also a horseshoe-like impression, with a transverse perfo- 

 rated ridge for the reception of the first arm joint (brachial), and 

 which is succeeded by a cuneiform bifurcating plate. The arras 

 (or hands of Miller) bifurcate several times, and there are six 

 fingers to each division of the ray, which are all tentaculated on 

 alternate sides. Here again is mentioned a single (anal) plate 

 interposed between the radials or " scapulae," and this plate is 

 placed upon the truncate costal (basal). The description applies 

 well generically to a large number of species which have been re- 

 ferred to Cyathocrinus, differing, however, in the pinnulate (ten- 

 taculated) arms. Not one of those species has ever been found 

 with pinnulse, though we have examined with reference to this 

 point a large number of species, and some most perfect specimens, 

 in which the covering of the ambulacral furrow is beautifully ex- 

 posed all along the arm, and in which it seems certain that if they 

 had been provided with pinnulse, these organs would have been 

 preserved. A similar covering has been found, with slight modi- 

 fication, in three or four other genera of the Cyathocrinidae, but 

 never in species with pinnulse, and this suggests the idea that 

 they may not exist in those genera. We therefore consider the 

 presence or absence of pinnulse of generic importance, and do not 

 hesitate to say that if Miller's Cyathocrinus planus had pinnulse, 

 it cannot be classified with species in which these organs are 

 wanting; and we also feel assured, from analogy, that if this was 

 the case in G. jylaiius, it will be found to possess more than one 

 anal plate in the calyx, and prove to be a true Poteriocrinus. 



Miller figures three specimens of this species. Fig. 1 repre- 

 sents an entire specimen, with a piece of column and perfect 

 arms ; the arms branch off from the second brachial, and are 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



long, composed of wedge-form plates, which give off on alternate 

 sides a row of strong pinnulae, such as are found in Poteriocrinus. 

 The specimen shows one side and partly the anterior of the body, 

 for the ray at the extreme right has apparently more brachials 

 than the other four, which is a very common occurrence in Pote- 

 riocrinus. Anal plates are not visible in the specimen, being 

 probably imbedded in the rock. The second specimen, Fig. 28, 

 is not sufficiently intelligible. The posterior side is shown, but 

 the arrangement of the anal portion is so obscure that it gives no 

 information whatever. The form of the calyx is like Poteriocri- 

 nus, subcorneal, and resembling Fig. 1. 



The third specimen, Figs. 29 and 30, from the Ashmolean col- 

 lection of Oxford, gives only the calyx, but this is sufficient to 

 show that it is an entirely different form from that represented by 

 Figs. 1 and 28. The position of the plates, the form of the catyx 

 with strongly convex sides, the peculiar articulating facet of the 

 first radials, their proportions, and the arrangement of the anal 

 area, agree in every respect with Miller's generic diagram, 1 and 

 with those species which we have mentioned as having no pin- 

 nulae. On the other hand, the first two figures in the subconical 

 form of the calyx, in the disposition and form of the plates, in 

 having two additional brachials in the anterior ray, in the presence 

 of pinnula?, closely resemble Poteriocrinus. This has induced us 

 to consider the Ashmolean specimen alone 2 to be Cyathocrinus 

 'planus and the type of the genus, and we propose an amendment 

 of the generic formula so as to admit only those species that are 

 without pinnulae, making the latter one of the best distinctions 



1 Miller's diagram of the Ashmolean specimen, Fig. 30, appears at first 

 sight to be very different from the generic diagram of the preceding plate, 

 but it must be understood that the four small plates, arranged in the figure 

 in a half circle, are to represent the interradials (oral plates) in the dome, 

 and not the plates of the ventral sac, as might be expected. 



2 We were not aware, when the above was written, that Austin, who ex- 

 amined most of Miller's original specimens, came to almost the same con- 

 clusion in regard to C. plaints (Rec. & Foss. Crin., p. 2). He remarks that 

 Miller in some cases has taken " parts of different animals and jumbled them 

 together" to render his figures as perfect as possible, and on page 59 he 

 says: " Miller's principal figure of the C. planus cannot be depended on, 

 as he appears to have taken the rays of Toxocritius longidactylus and placed 

 them on the body of G. planus." In supposing these to be the arms of 

 Taxocrinus, Austin is certainly mistaken. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 305 



between this genus and Poleriocrinus. The truncated posterior 

 basal, the number and disposition of the anal plates, and the 

 regular alternate arrangement of basals and radials are also ex- 

 cellent characters by which the two genera may be easily distin- 

 guished ; but not the construction of the vault, nor the presence 

 or absence of a separate buccal aperture, as Austin and De Koninck 

 suggested; for both genera have a similar low vault with a single 

 aperture, and in both types the ventral sac is lateral, strong, and 

 upright, instead of extending from the entire summit like an 

 enormous proboscis, as it has been described by several authors. 

 De Koninck and Lehon give the number of anal plates at two to 

 six, but there is really but one plate that can be regarded as such, 

 all succeeding ones forming a part of the ventral sac. 



Hall, in order to admit into Gyathocrinus such types as were 

 afterwards separated under Barycrinus, mentions in the Iowa Re- 

 port that there sometimes occurs in the anal area a rather small 

 intercalated plate; but this, though having a similar position, 

 cannot be considered identical with the lower anal plate of Poterio- 

 crinus. Barycrinus has been very generally accepted as a genus, 

 and as the plate in question has only been observed in species of 

 that type, it need no longer be considered in this connection. 



Angelin, in the Iconographia Crinoideorum, p. 22, mentions the 

 presence in Gyathocrinus of small pinnulse. We have already 

 noticed this point in the introductory remarks, and think we have 

 proved that the two alternate rows of plates, there called pinnulse, 

 are merely plates which cover the ambulacral groove in the arms, 

 and though they are, in our opinion, the homologues of the pin- 

 nulse, they are too rudimentary to be ranked as such. The cover- 

 ing in Gyathocrinus longimanus Angl., from the Silurian, con- 

 sists of two rows of five successive plates each, one row being 

 given off from the right, the other from the left side of the furrow 

 and perfectly covering it. In Gyathocr. Iowensis 0. & Shum., from 

 the Subcarboniferous, there have been observed only two successive 

 plates arranged in the same manner. If it could be shown that 

 this structure were constant in all Silurian species of Gyatho- 

 crinus, we should feel disposed to separate them from their sub- 

 carboniferous representatives, at least subgenerically, since in the 

 former the arm-joints are comparatively shorter, the ventral tube 

 stronger, and there is besides a peculiar difference in the general 

 habitus of the two which is not easily expressed. 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1819. 



Sphserocrinus Roemer is founded upon Cyathocrinus geometri- 

 cus Goldfnss, and it has all the characters of Cyathocrinus, not 

 only in the construction of the calyx, but also of the vault, and 

 we find a contraction of the body in the arm regions in the major- 

 ity of its species. 



Palseocrinus Billings is not distinct from Cyathocrinus. The 

 construction of the calyx is identical, and the five calycinal grooves 

 radiating from the centre of the abdominal surface, which, accord- 

 ing to Billings, form the principal distinction, are identical with the 

 ambulacral grooves passing here as there over the sutures of the 

 oral plates. Cyathocrinus, especially in its Lower Silurian form, 

 and when deprived of the arms, bears the closest relation to some 

 forms of the Blastoids on one side, and the Pentacrinoid larva 

 on the other. We propose the following: 



Revised Generic Diagnosis: General form of the body with 

 arms, elongate ; calyx cyathiform, usually with convex sides, in- 

 curving toward the upper margin, and, therefore, subglobose in 

 general outline ; symmetry bilateral. 



Underbasals five, moderately large, of equal size, either spread 

 out horizontally or with a slight upward curvature. Basals large, 

 regularly alternating with the radials, with acute upper angles, ex- 

 cept the posterior one which is truncate for the support of a single 

 anal plate. Radials one by five, as large or larger than the basals, 

 incurving toward the vault. Articulating facet rarely occupying 

 more than one-half the width of the plate often less than one-third 

 and one fourth to one-third its height, It is on the exterior of the 

 plate, circular or elliptic in form, and provided either with a small 

 perforation, or more frequentlj" with a deep notch which connects 

 with the arm groove. The brachials are similar in construction 

 to the arm joints, and their number, as a rule, is very irregular, 

 varying sometimes from two to seven in the same specimen, and 

 even in arms of the same relative position, scarcely two rays 

 having an equal number. 



Arms long, branching, each branch bifurcating several times, 

 and as they gradually taper toward the tips they become very 

 slender above. The arm joints, as well as the brachials in Silu- 

 rian species, are shorter, and comparatively heavier than in spe- 

 cies from the Subcarboniferous. In the former they are about as 

 wide as high, in their later representatives generally three or four 

 times higher than wide. Both, however, agree in the absence of 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



the pinnulae and in the structure of the ambulacra! groove, which, 

 instead of those appendages, is provided with two rows of from 

 two to five successive movable plates, alternately arranged on 

 opposite sides, by means of which the furrow could be opened to 

 the surrounding element, or shut off from it. 



Anal plate one, resting upon the superior edge of the truncated 

 basal and between two radials. None of the succeeding plates in 

 the series are embraced in the calyx ; they are much smaller and 

 form a part of the ventral sac. 



The vault is composed of five large oral plates, joining later- 

 ally, which fit in between the inflected margins of the two radial 

 plates, leaving in the oral centre an open space, which in perfect 

 specimens is completely covered by the apical dome plates. The 

 food groove and ambulacral canal are also arched over solidly by 

 two rows of alternate plates which connect with the movable 

 covering of the arm furrow. The ventral sac extends to about 

 one-half the height of the arms, and is composed of a large num- 

 ber of small plates not so regularly arranged as in Poteriocrinus. 

 Its communication with the main body internally is maintained 

 by means of a passage pierced through the posterior oral plate. 

 The sac is stronger in the Silurian species, and in them only have 

 pores and slits been observed. 



Column round, with alternate larger and smaller joints in its 

 upper portion; central passage scarcely of medium size. 



Geological position, etc The genus existed in the Lower Silu- 

 rian, was well represented in the Upper Silurian, and attained its 

 greatest abundance in the Subcarboniferous. Beyond the age of 

 the Keokuk limestone no trace of it has been discovered, and to- 

 ward the close of that epoch the general aspect of the species un- 

 derwent a marked change, the later species being large, and the 

 arms, which before were delicate, became very robust at the bases. 

 (See Wachsm. & Spr., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1878, p. 257.) 

 According to Murchison and others, Cyathocrinus is represented 

 in the Permian, but nothing has been discovered upon which to 

 base this opinion beyond the fragments of columns, which afford 

 no reliable proof. So far as ascertained there are 4 species from 

 the Lower, 19 from the Upper Silurian; a single one from the 

 Devonian; 28 from the Subcarboniferous, making in all 53 species, 

 of which 27 have been found in Europe, and 26 in America. 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



1878. Cyathocrinus acinotubus Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 23, pi. 20, fig. 5. 



Upper Silur. Gotland, Sweden. 

 1856. Cyathocr. angulatus, Billings. (Palaeocrinus angulatUB.) Geol. Surv. 



Can., p. 269; also Dec. iv. pi. 3, figs. 6 a, b. Trenton limest. Ottawa, 



Canada. 

 1878. Cyathocr. alutaceus Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 23, pi. 4, fig. 6, and 



pi. 23, figs. 10, 11. Upper Silur. Gotland, Sweden. 

 1865. Cyathocr. arboreus, Meek & Worth. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 160; 



also Geol. Rep. III., vol. iii. p. 520. Keokuk limest. Subcarb. Crawfords- 



ville, Indiana. 

 *1861. Cyathocr. Barrisi Hall. (Poteriocr. Barrisi.) Desc. New Pal. Crin., p. 5 ; 



also Bost. Jouj. Nat. Hist., p. 303. Lower Burlington limest. Subcarb. 



Burlington, Iowa. 

 1878. Cyathocr. barydactylus Wachsmuth & Springer. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phil., p. 257, pi. 2, fig. 5. Upper Burlington Fishbed. Subcarb. Burling- 

 ton, Iowa. 

 1836. Cyathocr. bursa Phillips Geol. Yorksh., vol. ii. p. 206, pi. 3, fig. 29 ; 1843, 



Austin, Mon. Rec. & Foss. Crin., p. 63, pi. 7, fig. 7 a. Subcarboniferous. 



Bolland, England. 

 1836. Cyathocr. calcaratus Phillips. Geol. Yorksh., p. 206, pi. 3, fig. 35; also 



Austin, 1843, Rec. & Foss. Crin., p. 63, pi. 8, fig. 2 a-c. Subcarbon. Eng- 

 land. 

 1839. Cyathocr. capillaris Phillips. Murch. Silur. Syst., p. 671, pi. 17, fig. 2. 



Upper Silur. Dudley, England. 

 1836. Cyathocr. conicus Phillips. Geol. Yorksh , vol. ii. pt. ii. p. 206, pi. 3, fig. 



27; also Austin, 1843, Rec. & Foss. Crin., p. 64, pi. 8, figs, la, b. Subcarb. 



Bolland, England. 

 1868. Cyathocr. cora Hall. 18th Rep. N. Y St. Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 324, pi. 11, figs. 



13, 14. Niag. group, U. Silur. Racine, Wisconsin. 

 1836. Cyathocr. -distortus Gilbert. Phillips' Geol. Yorksh., vol. ii. p. 206, pi. 3, 



fig. 34. Subcarb. Bolland, England. 

 1878. Cyathocr. distensus Angl. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 23, pi. 3, figs. 6, 6 a. 



Upper Silur. Gotland, Sweden. 

 *1843. Cyathocr. Dudleyensis Austin. (Poteriocr. Dudleyensis.) Upper Silur. 



Dudley, England. 



1865. Cyathocr. enormis Meek & Worthen. (Poteriocr. (?) enormis.) Proc. 



Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 137; also Geol Rep. Ill , vol. iii. p. 481, pi. 16, 

 figs. 3 a, b. Lower Burl, limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 



1866. Cyathocr. Farleyi Meek & Worthen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 252; 



Geol. Rep. 111., vol. iii. pp. 5, 17, pi. 20, figs. 1 a, b. Keokuk limest. Sub- 

 carb Warsaw, Illinois. 

 1876. Cyathocr. fasciatus Hall. 28th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab. Nat. Hist., pi. 13, figs. 



5, 6. (No description.) Niag. limest. U. Sil. Waldron, Indiana. 

 1868. Cyathocr. fragilis Meek & Worthen. Proc. Acad. Nat, Sci. Phil., p. 237 ; 



Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v, p. 401, pi. 4, fig 5. Lower Burl, limest. Subcarb. 



Burlington, Iowa. 

 1826. Cyathocr. geometricus Goldfuss. Petref Germ., i. p. 189, pi. 58, fig. 5 ; 



Phillips, Pal. Foss., p. 135, pi. 60, fig. 41; Austin, Rec. & Foss. Crin., p. 



61, pi. 7, figs. 5 a-e. F. Roemer. Spcerocrimts geometricus, Verh. d. nat. 



Vereins f. Rheinl., viii. p. 366, pi. 8, fig. 1; Sandberger, Verst. Nassaus, 




1819.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



p. 390, pi. 25, fig. 14; Muller, Poteriocr. geometricns, Neue Echinod, d. 

 Eifl. Kalkes, p. 250, pi. 2, figs. 4-7, and pi. 4, figs. 1-3. Schultze, Mon. 

 Echinod, Eifl. Kalkes. p. 51, pi. 5, fig. 6 a to 1. Schultze recognizes the 

 following varieties: var., typus, pi, 5, fig. 6 a, b; var., reticularis, pi. 5, 

 fig. 6 f , i ; var., omata, fig. 6 1; var., oniata tuberculata, fig. 6 k ; var., 

 co>ice?itrica. Devonian. Eifel, Germany. 

 Syn. Poteriocrinus hemisphcericus, Muller. Monatsher. d. Berl Acad. d. 



Wissensch. 1856, p. 354. 

 Syn. Spharocr. stellalus, Schnur. Steininger's geognost. Beschr. d. Eifel. 

 p. 38. 



1878. Cyathocr. Gilesi Wachsmuth & Springer. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 

 259. Fishbed, Upper Burl, liuiest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 



1878. Cyathocr. glaber Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 23, pi. 23, figs. 12, 13. 

 Upper Silur. Gotland, Sweden. 



1839. Cyathocr. goniodactylus Phillips. Murch. Silur Syst., p. 671, pi. 17, fig. 1. 

 Upper Silur. Dudley, England. 



*1879. Cyathocr. Harrodi n. sp. (For description see note below.) 



1861. Cyathocr. incipiens Hall. Desc. New Pal. Crin., p. 5 ; Bost. Jour. Nat. 

 Hist. 1861, p. 296. Upper Burl, limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 



1878. Cyathocr. incurvatus Angl. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 23, pi. 24, fig. 1. 

 Upper Silur. Gotland. 



1850. Cyathocr. Iowensis Owen & Shumard. Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil. (2d 

 ser.) vol. ii. ; Geol. Surv. Wise. Iowa and Minn., p. 591, pi. 5 A, figs. 11 a, 

 b, c. Upper and Lower Burl, limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 

 Syn. C. divaricatus Hall, 1858. Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i. pt ii. p. 554, pi. 9, 



fig. 5. (Young specimen.) 

 Syn. C. malvaceus Hall, 1S58. Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i. pt. ii. p. 554, pi. 9, 



fig. 4 a, b. (Depressed specimen.) 

 Syn. C. viminalu Hall, 1861. Desc. New Pal. Crin., p. 5 ; Bost. Jour. Nat. 

 Hist., p. 299. (See Wachsin. & Spr., Proc. Acad. Nat. 9ci. Phil. 1877, p. 

 256.) 



1863. Cyathocr. lamellosus White. Bost. Journ. Ndt Hist., p. 504. Upper Burl, 

 limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 



1878. Cyathocr. lsevis Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 23, pi. 26, figs. 2, 3. Up- 

 per Silur. Gotland, Sweden. 



1878. Cyathocr. longimanus Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 22, pi. 20, figs. 4, 

 6, 7, pi. 26, figs. 4, 5. Upper Silur. Gotland, Sweden. 



1836 (?) Cyathocr. mammillaris Phillips. Geol. Yorksh., vol. ii. p. 206, pi. 3, fig. 

 28; Austin, 1843, Rec & Foss, Crin. p. 64, pi. 7, fig. 8 a, b; De Koninck 

 & Lehon, 1863, Recherches s. 1. Crin. Carb. Belg., p. 82, pi. 1, fig. 4. Sub- 

 carboniferous. Bolland, England, and Vise, Belgium. 



187S. Cyathocr. monilifer Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 23, pi. 21, figs. 15, 

 15 a. Upper Silur. Gotland, Sweden. 



1859. Cyathocr. multibrachiatus Lyon & Cassiday. Am. Jour. Sci., vol. 28. Keo- 

 kuk limest. Subcarb. Crawfordsville, Indiana. 



1878. Cyathocr. muticus Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 23, pi. 21, figs. 22, 23. 

 Upper Silur. Gotland, Sweden. 



1836. (?) Cyathocr. ornatus Phillips. Geol. Yorksh., pt. ii. p. 206, pi. 4, figs. 36, 

 37. Subcarboniferous. Bolland, England. 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



1861. Cyathocr. parvibrachiatus Hall. Desc. New. Pal. Crin., p. 6 ; Bost. Journ. 



Nat. Hist., p. 294. Keokuk limest. Subcarb. Keokuk, Iowa. 



1821. Cyathocr. planus Miller. A History of the Crinoidea, p. 85, figs. 29, 30 

 (not figs. 1 and 28); Austin, 1843; Rec. & Foss, Crin. p. 59, pi. 7, figs. 

 4 a-e. Subcarboniferous. Near Bristol, England. 



1863. (?) Cyathocr. polyxo Hall. New sp. foss. from Niagara Gr. p. 5; and figured 

 without description, 28th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab. Nat. Hist., pi. 15, figs. 10-17. 

 Niagara limest. Upper Silur. Waldron, Indiana. (This is evidently not 

 Cyathocrinus, but its generic relations cannot be ascertained from the ma- 

 terial which has been discovered.) 



1870. Cyathocr. poterium Meek & Worthen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 24; 

 Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. p. 489, pi. 12, fig. 4. Keokuk limest. Subcarb. 

 Crawfordsville, Indiana. 



*1859. Cyathocr. pulchellus Billings. (Palseocr. pulchellus.) Geol. Surv. Can., 

 Dec. iv. p. 46. Trenton limest. L. Silur. Ottawa, Can. 



1878. Cyathocr. ramosus Aigelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 22, pi. 20, figs. 1-3. 

 Upper Silur. Gotland, Sweden. 



1856. (?) Cyathocr. radiatus Eichwald. (Apiocrinus radiatus.) Bull. Soc. des 

 Nat. de Moscou, p. 115; Lethtea Rossica, p 592, pi. 31, figs. 50 a-f. Car- 

 boniferous. Near Moscow, Russia. (Perhaps Poteriocrinus the figures 

 not sufficiently intelligible.) 



*1S59. Cyathocr. rhombiferus Billirjgs. (Palseocrinus rhombiferus.) Geol. 

 Surv. Can., Dee. iv. p. 45. Trenton limest. L. Silur. Ottawa, Can. 



1862. Cyathocr. rigidus White. Proc. Bost Soc. Nat. Hist., p. 8. Lower Bur- 



lington limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa 

 1858. Cyathocr. rotundatus Hall. Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i. pt. ii. p. 555, pi. 9, 



figs. 7 a, b. U,,per Burlington limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1826. Cyathocr. rugosus Goldfuss. Subcarboniferous. Saxony. 

 I860. Cyathocr. saffordi Meek k Worthen. Proc. Acad. Nat Sci. Phil., p. 371; 



Geol. Rep. 111., vol. ii. p 236, pi. 17, figs. 5 a, b. Keokuk limest. Sub- 

 carb. Tennessee. 

 *1859. Cyathocr. striatus Billings. (Palseocr. striatus.) Geol. Surv. Can , Dec. 



iv. p. 25, pi. i. fig. 5 a, b Chazy limest. Montreal, Can. 

 1878. Cyathocr. striolatus Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 23, pi. 19, fig. 9. 



Upper Silur. Gotland, Sweden. 

 1868. Cyathocr. tenuidactylus Meek & Worthen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 



238; Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. p. 403, pi. 2, fig. 15. Lower Burlington limest. 



Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1868. Cyathocr. waukoma Hall. 17th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab. Nat. Hist, p. 324, pi. 



11, figs. 13, 14. Niagra Gr. Upper Silur. Racine, Wisconsin. 

 1878. Cyathocr. zonatus Angelin. Iconog. Crin. Suec, p. 22, pi. 6, fig. 5. Upper 



Silur. Gotland, Sweden. 



Note. Cyathocrinus Ilarrodi, n. sp. Form of calyx shallow, cup- 

 shaped, the lower portion truncate and slightly excavated. 



Undcrbasals very small, subquadrangular, spread out horizontally, and 

 forming a nve-rayed star. Basals large, a little wider than high, bending 

 abruptly toward the underbasals in such a manner that the lower half of 

 the plate stands on a level with the hitter. The radials are of the size of the 

 basals perhaps a trifle smaller once and a half as wide as high, subpentan- 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



gular, the two lower sides making about a right angle. Articulating scar 

 occupying about one-third the width of the plate, somewhat concave, and 

 facing obliquely outward. Brachials varying from two to four or more in 

 the rays, wider than high, rounded on the exterior, the upper one giving 

 rise to two main arms, each of which branches three times. 



Arms long, decreasing in width at each bifurcation, very delicate at the 

 tips, the arm-joints increasing in length upward. Ventral furrow covered 

 by two alternating rows of from two to three pieces. Anal plate small. 



Surface of plates ornamented by strong radiating ridges, two to each 

 radial, which connect with those of the two adjacent basals. They are 

 most prominent on the latter, where they converge toward the middle into 

 a node which points downward. These nodes, and their downward direc- 

 tion, give to the specimen an appearance very like Ollacrinus. Under- 

 basals smooth. 



Column small, round, composed of thin smooth joints, alternating in size ; 

 central perforation round. 



This species is most nearly related to G. lamellosus White, of the Upper 

 Burlington limestone, from which it differs in the number and form of the 

 arms, which in our species are rounded, instead of sharply ridged on the 

 back ; in the surface markings of the calyx, and in the smooth column 

 that of G. lamellosus being beautifully sculptured. 



The specific name is in honor of Dr. Harrod, of Canton, Ind., to whom 

 we are indebted for the discovery and use of specimens. 



Position and Locality. Keokuk limestone (Crawfordsville Division), 

 Canton, Indiana, Collections of C. Wachsmuth and Dr. Harrod. 



7. LECYTHOCRINUS Zittel (not Joh. Miiller). 



1858. Lecythocrinus Miiller. Monatsber. der Berl. Akad., p. 196 (based 



upon an anomalous specimen). 

 1866. Taxocrinus Schultze. Echinod. d. Eifl. Kalkes, p. 30. 

 1879. Lecyllwcrinus Zittel. Handb. d. Petrefactenkunde (uow in press). 



Under tliis generic name, Johannes Miiller described a species 

 which, according to Schultze, was an abnormal specimen of his 

 Taxocrinus briareus. In the original specimen, which is figured 

 by Schultze, Mon. Echinod. d. Eifl. Kalkes, pi. 4, figs. 1 a-e, there 

 are six radials and seven main arms, besides other irregularities 

 in the calyx, plainly indicating some disturbance in the natural 

 growth of the animal. 



In the Am. Journ. Sci., S,ept. 1877, one of us expressed a doubt 

 as to T. briareus being a Taxocrinus, and we have since become 

 convinced that its nearest affinities are with Cyathocrinus and 

 Gissocrinus, from both of which it differs in the construction of 

 the column, and in the small size of its underbasals. If the species 

 possesses five underbasals, as we believe, it ought to be placed 




312 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



subgenerically under Cyathocrinus; if it has but three, as Schultze 

 supposed (they have not been observed), it should be similarly 

 ranked under Gissocrinus, but at all events under the Cyathocri- 

 nidse. 



Generic Diagnosis. General form of the calyx cyathiform; 

 symmetry bilateral. 



TJnderbasals very small, entirely covered by the column, their 

 number not ascertained. Basals five, four of them equal, the fifth 

 or posterior one with the upper side truncate. Radials large, 

 alternating with the basals; articulating faces concave, occupying 

 one-half to two-thirds the width of the plate. Brachials two to 

 four or more, their number varying in the different nays, as well 

 as in different individuals. They are very short, the upper one 

 supporting on each sloping side two main arms, whieh divide on 

 the second or third plate, each division branching several times 

 again. 



Arms long, composed of simple joints, and provided with a dor- 

 sal canal 1 and a deep ambulacral furrow. No pinnulse. 



Anal plate one, constructed as in Cyathocrinus and resting 

 upon the truncate posterior basal. Ventral sac in form of a long 

 tube, constructed of numerous very regular hexagonal plates of 

 equal height, longitudinally arranged in alternately wider and 

 narrower rows. 



The column, which forms the best generic distinction, is obtusely 

 quadrangular, with slightly concave sides, and is composed of very 

 narrow joints of equal size, which are penetrated by a large central 

 and four smaller accessory canals, situated within the joints of the 

 four angles. 



The only known species is : 



*1866. Lecythocrinus briareus Schultze. Echinod. Eifl. Kalk., p. 36, pi. 4, fig. 1 

 (1858. Locythocr. Eifelianus Miiller.) ; 1879. Zittel. Lecythocrinus Eifel- 

 ianus, Mandbuch d. Petrefactenkunde. 3te Liefer. (Now in press.) Devonian, 

 Eifel, Germany. 



8. GISSOCRINUS Angelin. 



1878. Iconog. Crin. Suec, p. 10. 



General form of body including arms elongate, slightly veu- 



1 By " dorsal canal" we understand the longitudinal passage, which oc- 

 curs in some forms through the calcareous joints of the arms, next to the 

 dorsal side, and in connection with the nervous centre in the calyx. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



tricose above the arm bases. Calyx low, neatly ornamented by 

 radiating striae ; symmetry bilateral. 



Underbasals three instead of five, two of them equal and twice 

 as large as the third ; the smaller one placed anteriorly, the 

 sutures of the two larger directed to the rear. The plates are so 

 arranged that a bisection of the latter two produces five equal 

 pieces regularly alternating with the succeeding ring of basals. 

 Basals large, four of them pentagonal or hexagonal with sharp 

 upper angles, the fifth longer, hexagonal, truncate above. Radials 

 semi-lunate, larger than the basals, wider than long; articulating 

 facet concave and occupying about one-half the width of the plate. 

 The brachials consist either of a single bifurcating plate, which is 

 wider than long, pentangular; or in some species of two smaller 

 plates which combined have about the form and proportions of 

 the single one. 



Arms long, bifurcating, branches very numerous and of almost 

 uniform thickness throughout their length. The divisions take 

 place at regular intervals, but only toward the inner side of the 

 ray, the outer or main arms remaining straight; the inner arms 

 or branches remain simple or in some cases subdivide once or 

 twice. The first bifurcation of the main arms takes place upon 

 the first or second plate above the brachials, the next and all suc- 

 ceeding bifurcations from each first, second, or fourth plate, accord- 

 ing to species. Arm-joints distinctly rounded on the exterior, 

 with parallel sutures, rather higher than wide, the upper margin 

 generally projecting into a band inclosing the lower part of the 

 next plate. The axillary or bifurcating plates the largest, with a 

 sharp angular process at their sides toward the upper margin. No 

 pinnulse. Arm furrows covered by two rows of alternate plates 

 which stand out prominently forming an elevated arch. 



Anal plate one, which is large, resting upon the truncate basal 

 and supporting the ventral sac, which has the form of a tube. The 

 tube is long, sometimes extending beyond the tips of the arms, 

 rather strong; cylindrical except at its junction with the main 

 body, where it becomes much contracted toward one side ; the 

 inner passage elliptic, almost linear in its cross section. It is 

 composed of quadrangular plates longitudinally arranged, leaving 

 a deep furrow between the rows lined with fissures which penetrate 

 the test. 



The construction of the summit closely resembles that of Cya- 

 21 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



ihocrinus, except that the arms are recumbent upon the vault. There 

 are five oral plates, upon the sutures between which, and raised, 

 above the general level, the arm-joints are imbedded, being covered 

 by small alternating plates like the free arms. 



Column round, composed of joints of alternating thickness. 



Gissocrinus approaches nearest the Silurian form of Cyatho- 

 crinus ; indeed the form of the catyx and the general aspect are 

 strikingly similar. But they differ in the number of underbasals, 

 which in this genus are reduced to three. Angelin places Gisso- 

 crinus with Forbesiocrinus and both under the Taxocrinidre, which 

 is certainly not a natural group. The long slender proboscis, the 

 single ring of radials within the calyx, show clearly that this genus 

 belongs to the Cyathocrinidse. 



Geological position, etc. Upper Silurian of England and Sweden, 

 so far as known. 



The following species have beeu referred to it : 



1839. Gissocrinus arthriticus Phillips. (Actinocr. arthriticus), Murcbison. Silur. 



Syst., p. 674, pi. 17, fig. 8, and Morris, Cat. Brit. Foss., Ed. 2, 1854, p. 



70. Salter, 1859. Murch. Siluria, Ed. 3, p. 535, pi. 14, fig. 7, and ibid. 



Ed. 4; p. 512 ; Salter, 1873, Cyathocr. arthriticus, Cat. Cainb. and Silur. 



Foss. in Univ. of Cambridge, p. 124. Angelin. Gissocr. arthriticus, 



Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 10, pi. 3, figs. 1-3. Upper Silur. Gotland, Sweden, 



and Dudley, Eng. 

 1878. Gissocr. elegans Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 10, pi. 3, fig. 5. Upper 



Silur. Gotland, Sweden. 

 1878. (?) Gissocr. macrodactylus Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 10, pi. 18, fig. 



1. Upper Silur. Gotland, Sweden. 



This species differs from all others referred to this genus by 

 Angelin in the brachials, which are represented in a greater num- 

 ber and variable as in Cyathocrinus ; in the branching of the 

 arms, and in having a more elongate calyx. The underbasals are 

 said to be three, but this is not certain. 



1878. Gissocr. nudus Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 10, pi. 20, fig. 20. Upper 

 Silur. Gotland, Sweden. 



1878. Gissocr. punctuosus Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 10, pi. 27, figs. 1 a-g ; 

 pi. 29, figs. 73-76. Upper Silur. Gotland, Sweden. 



1878. Gissocr. tubulatus Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 10, pi. 3, fig. 4. Up- 

 per Silur. Gotland, Sweden. 



1878. Gissocr. umbilicatus Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 10, pi. 21, figs. 8-10 ; 

 pi. 29, figs. 75 a, b. Upper Silur. Gotland, Sweden. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 315 



s 9. ARACHNOCRINUS Meek & Worthen. 

 ' 1866. Geol. Rep. Illinois, -vol. ii. p. 177. 



The above name, with Cyathocrinus? bulbosus Hall as type, 

 was proposed by Meek and Worthen for a little group of Crinoids 

 which are distinguished by their spider like appearance. The 

 calyx in these species, as compared with the long and robust arms, 

 is extremely small, hemispherical, and forms a bulb-like protuber- 

 ance, from which the arms spread horizontally. These characters 

 distinguish this form readily from Cyathocrinus, with which it 

 otherwise agrees, and they are so remarkable that we feel con- 

 strained to consider Arachnocrinus a distinct genus, and not a 

 subgenus, as suggested by its authors. 



We had lately the pleasure of examining the splendid collections 

 of Dr. Knapp in Louisville, where we found two exceedingly in- 

 teresting specimens, representing different species of this genus, 

 both new. In one, the arms are almost closed, in the other spread 

 out horizontally, thus demonstrating clearly that this Crinoidwas 

 capable of folding up its arms, and bringing them to an erect posi- 

 tion, which has been doubted by Meek and Worthen, who could 

 not conceive how an animal with so small a visceral cavity could 

 have sufficient muscular power to move such ponderous arms. Dr. 

 Knapp kindly permits us to describe the two species, which will 

 be known as A. Knappi and A.extensus. Roemer's Poteriocrinus 

 pisiformis, which Meek and Worthen refer to this genus, is but 

 imperfect^ known, but we do not doubt that the reference is 

 correct. We also place in this genus Cyathocrinus granulatus 

 Angelin, though it differs from the other species in the brachials, 

 which are restricted to one to each ray. We propose the follow- 

 ing: 



Generic Diagnosis. Calyx very small, resembling Cyathocrinus 

 in the arrangement of the plates, but more depressed ; basal por- 

 tion rounded. Arms exceedingly robust, generally stretched out 

 horizontally, and arranged around the body, as the arms in ^4,s- 

 trophyton around the disc. 



Underbasals five, small, apparentl}' of equal size. Basals five, 

 the posterior one truncate. Radials wider than high, articulating 

 scar occupying almost the entire width of the plate, and more or 

 less concave. The number of brachials differs in the rays, as many 

 as fourteen having been observed - T they are cylindrical, wider than 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



high, and resemble in form and construction the joints of the heavy 



arms 



Arms long, ramifying several times towards the inner part of 

 the ray, the main arms and branches scarcely diminishing in size; 

 in fact the joints near the tips of the arms are almost as large as 

 the brachials. Both are generally short, quadrangular, except the 

 bifurcating plates, which are comparatively longer. Ambulacral 

 furrow deep. Pinnulae wanting. 



Anal plate one, small, resting upon the truncate basal, and sup- 

 porting a lateral tube which is in line with the arm bases. The 

 ventral tube was evidently small. In A. Knappi it apparently 

 rests directly upon the basal, or probably the anal plate forms a 

 part of the ventral sac. The vault is surmounted by five large 

 oral plates all other plates in the dome unknown. 



Column round, of alternately larger and smaller joints. 



Geological Position, etc. Confined to the Upper Silurian and 

 Devonian so far as known, and found both in Europe and America. 



The following species may be referred to this genus: 



I860. Arachnocrinus bulbosus Hall. (Cyatliocr. (?) bulbosus), 15th Rep. N. Y. St. 

 Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 123, pi. 1, figs. 19-22. Upper Helderberg, Devon. Liv- 

 ingston Co., Kentucky. 



*1879. Arachnocr. extensus Wachsm. and Spr. (See description below.') 



*1878. (?) Arachnocr. granulatus Angelin. (Cyatliocr. granulatus), Iconogr. 

 Crin. Suec, p. 23, pi. 16, figs. 1-3 Upper Silur. Gotland, Sweden. 



*1879. Arachnocr. Knappi Wachm. & Spr. (See description below.") 



1 Arachnocrinus extensus, n. sp. The body of the only known specimen 

 is not in a condition to exhibit satisfactorily the arrangement and propor- 

 tions of all the plates, but enough is visible to show that the calyx closely 

 resembles that of Arachnocr. bulbosus. Its plates are smooth, the under- 

 basals small, and projecting but little beyond the column. Arms massive, 

 bifurcating on the second brachial, except in the anterior ray which divides 

 on the 14th or 15th plate, and branches further up four times ; the two 

 lateral rays branch five, the two posterior rays six times. The arms are 

 long and stretched out horizontally to their full length. Arm joints almost 

 as large as the brachials and like them cylindrical, much wider than long 

 except the bifurcating plates which are always comparatively longer, with 

 a thickened rim both at their upper and lower margins. 



This species differs from A. bulbosus in the proportions of its arm joints, 

 from A. Knappi in the number of brachials, and from both in the bifurca- 

 tion of the arms, . Hamilton Gr. below Hydraulic Beds (Encrinal 



limestone, Hall). Devonian, Falls of the Ohio. 



2 Arachnocrinus Knappi, n. sp. Calyx oue and a half wider than high, 

 basal portion concave. Underbasals small, not extending beyond the col- 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



*1860. Arachnocr. pisiformis Roemer. (Posteriocr. piriformis), Sil. Fauna of 

 West Tenn., p. 54, pi. 4, figs. 7 a-d ; Meek & Worthen, Arachnocr. pisi- 

 formis. Geol. Rep. III., vol. ii. p. 177. Upper Silur. Tenn. 



The arms are unknown in this species. 



10. VASOCRINUS Lyon. 

 (Rectified by W. & Spr.) 

 1857. Geol. Surv. Kentucky, vol. 3, p. 485. 



Hall Advance Sheets Pal. New York, Vol. V., Part II., p. 6, 

 containing a list of the Devonian fossils occurring at the falls of 

 the Ohio placed both species of Lyon's Vasocrinus under Cya- 

 thocrinus, in which he was apparently justified ; for Lyon in de- 

 scribing the genus failed to point out any characters by which it 

 might be distinguished from Cyathocrinus, except perhaps the 

 peculiar form of the body. In his generic description Lyon men- 

 tions the presence of only a single anal plate, but at the same time 

 describes his second species with two anals. On examining the 

 original specimens, both of V. valens and V. sculptus, in the col- 

 lection of Dr. Knapp, we arrived at the conclusion that Lyon was 

 correct in separating these species from Cyathocrinus, and further- 

 more, that they are intimately related to certain other species 



umn. Basals large, larger tban the radials, and partly included within the 

 concavity. Radials of unequal size the posterior ones smaller semilunu- 

 late ; articulating facet strongly excavated, facing outward and almost cir- 

 cular in outline. Brachials very heavy, their number varying in the rays. 

 In the original specimen the left posterior ray has fourteen brachials ; the 

 right posterior evidently recuperated and hence perhaps not showing its 

 normal condition has eight ; the lateral rays twelve to fourteen, and the 

 anterior ray fourteen. The first and only bifurcation visible in the speci- 

 men takes place on the second, third, or fourth plate. Arms erect, being 

 otherwise built upon the same plan as in A. extensus. Arm joints as heavy 

 as the brachials, cylindrical, much wider than high, with parallel sutures, 

 and without pinnulte. All these plates appear as if constricted in the mid- 

 dle, on account of the thickening of the plates toward the sutures. Anal 

 arrangement not clearly disclosed in the specimen, but there appears to be 

 a rather large lateral opening directly above the posterior basal and be- 

 tween two adjoining radials. We can observe no special aual plate, and if 

 it were present it was evidently small, and perhaps formed a part of the ven- 

 tral tube, which toward the dome is supported by an elongate lozenge- 

 shaped oral plate. Four additional oral plates of a similar form cover the 

 ventral side. Apical dome plates, and the covering of the ambulacral 

 furrow, not preserved. Hamilton Group. Devonian. Near Charleston, 

 Indiana. 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



which have been referred to various genera, and always with diffi- 

 culty. 



In reconstructing the genus, we prefer to make Vasocrinus Ly- 

 oni (Cyathocrinus Lyoni Hall), from Crawfordsville, the type, 

 because it is found more perfectly preserved in the arm portion ; 

 but we scarcely doubt, to judge from the brachials, as far as they 

 are preserved, that the arms in the Devonian species were con- 

 structed in a like manner. 



Revised Generic Diagnosis. Calyx shaped like a low vase ; 

 plates thin. Underbasals five, rather small, forming a regular 

 pentagon. Basals large, almost as high as wide, general^ de- 

 pressed toward their angles, four pentagonal or hexagonal, the 

 fifth with an additional side. Radial s always wider than high, 

 the upper portion strongly inflected toward the dome. Articulat- 

 ing facet, concave occupying about one-third of the plates, almost 

 circular, deeply notched for the ambulacral groove. Brachials 

 resembling the arm plates, but slightly wider. In Vasocr. Lyoni, 

 the only species in which their number is perfectly known, there 

 are two by five ( V. valens had at least as many), with two arms 

 to the ray. 



Arms long, moderately heavy, tapering gradually to the tips. 

 They are simple throughout, so far as observed, but in place of 

 branching they throw off armlets alternately from each side, and 

 these branch once or twice, as in Botryocrinus and Barycrinas, 

 though they are less robust. 



Anal area wide; anal plates generally two, rarely one, arranged 

 as in Barycrinus. There is one large plate situated between two 

 radials, and a smaller one placed obliquely toward the right side 

 of the specimen, and between two basals, the right posterior radial 

 and the larger anal. The ventral sac, as observed in V. Lyoni, 

 extends to more than half the length of the arms. It is rather 

 heav}', with a series of large quandrangular plates at the base, 1 

 the lower ones as wide, but much higher than the radials. All 

 the other plates of the sac are much smaller, decreasing in size 

 upward. Construction of the vault unknown. 



1 These plates, which are much heavier and larger than any other plates 

 of the tube, in their longitudinal arrangement and rounded exterior, 

 strongly resemble an arm, and were taken by Lyon and Casseday, who de- 

 scribed this species as Cyathocr. hexadactylus, for arm plates of a sixth 

 ray, and the large anal plate upon which they rest, for a radial. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 319 



Column round, undivided longitudinally (except in V. dilata- 

 tus)', central perforation scarcely of medium size. 



This genus occupies a position S3 r stematically between Cyatho- 

 crinus on the one side and Botryocrinus and Barycrinus on the 

 other. It differs from Barycrinus in the delicacy of its body plates, 

 in having two brachials instead of one, in the less robust arms, 

 and in having a round column with a comparatively small and 

 simply constructed passage, in contrast to the pentagonal, divided 

 column, and wide and complicated central canal of that genus. 

 From Botryocrinus it differs in the form of the ventral sac and 

 the construction of the arms. 



Geological Position, etc. Devonian and Subcarboniferous ; only 

 found in America, save one doubtful species from the Eifel. 



The following species are considered as belonging here : 



#1866. C?)Vasocrinus dilatatus Schultze. (Potericr. dilatatus, not Hall = Coe- 

 liocr. dilatatus.) Mon. Echinod. Eifl. Kalk., p. 49, pi. 5, figs. 3, 3 a. De- 

 vonian. Eifel, Germany. 



This species has the column divided longitudinally, and therein 

 approaches Barycrinus, from which it differs in having thin body 

 plates, and a form exactly as in Lyon's typical species V. valens. 



*1861. Vasocr. Lyoni Hall. (Cyathocrinus Lyoni.) Type of the genus. Desc. 

 New. Pal. Crin., p. 5; Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 298. 1868. Meek & 

 Worthen. Barycrinus Lyoni. Proc Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 340. 

 Keokuk limest. Subearb. Crawfordsville, Indiana. 

 Syn. Cyathocrinus hexadactylus, Lyon & Casseday. 1859. Amer. Journ. 

 Sci., p. 74. 



Lyon's name has precedence, but being specifically as well as 

 generically incorrect (see note above), we adopt Prof. Hall's later 

 name. 



#1861. Vasocr. macropleurus Hall. (Cyathocr. macropleurus.) Desc. New. Pal. 

 Crin., p. 5; Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., p.. 295. Meek & Worthen, Scaphiocr. 

 macropleurus. Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. p. 412. Lower Burl, limest. Subearb. 

 Burlington, Iowa. 



1857. Vasocr. sculptus Lyon. Geol. Rep. Ky., vol. iii. p. 486, pi. 4, figs. 3 b-e. ; 

 Hall, 1877. Cyathocr. sculptus. Pal. N. Y., vol. v. (advance sheet No. 2) 

 p. 6. Hamilton Gr., Devonian, above Hydraulic Bed. Jefferson Co., Ky. 



1857. Vasocr. valens Lyon. Geol. Rep. Ky., vol. iii. p. 485, pi. 4, figs. 3, 3 a. 

 Hall, 1877. Cyathocr . valens. Pal. N. Y., vol. v. (advance sheet No. 2) 

 p. 6. Hamilton Gr. Devonian, above the Hydraulic Bed. Near Green- 

 ville, Ky. 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



11. OPHIOCRINUS Angelin. 

 1878. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 24. 



Ill the form and structure of the calyx this type resembles 

 Cyathocrinus, but in the position of the arms it is like Arachno- 

 crinus, from which it is perhaps only subgenerically distinct. 



Underbasals five, four of medium size, equal, thin, upper edges 

 meeting at right angles, except the fifth is truncated above. Radials 

 five, lunulate ; articulating surface deeply concave, and occupying 

 almost the entire width of the plate. Brachials spreading out 

 horizontally, varying in number from one to four in the different 

 rays ; very short but heavy. Only one anal plate. 



Arms directed downward; composed of joints similar to the 

 brachials, being, however, slightly narrower and longer. Total 

 length of arms unknown. 0. crotalurus had apparently only ten 

 arms ; in the original specimen some eight or nine arm joints are 

 preserved without any signs of bifurcation. The arm grooves are 

 rather narrow, covered by two rows of plates ; with short lateral 

 grooves given off from each side of the main furrow, within the 

 arm joints, similarly covered, and which are evidently recumbent 

 pinnulae. 



The condition of the ventral sac is the most remarkable feature 

 of the genus. Instead of going straight upward, it bends close 

 to the base, and coils upon itself spiral^ twice, decreasing in 

 thickness toward the upper end. It is composed of regular rows 

 of hexagonal plates alternately arranged, with a rather deep 

 lonoitudinal ridsje bordered with fissures on each side. 



Column round, of alternate larger and smaller joints ; central 

 perforation of medium size. 



This genus resembles Cyathocrinus, but is easily distinguished 

 by its peculiar pendent arms, recumbent pinnulae, and remarkable 

 proboscis. 



Geological position, etc. Upper Silurian. Sweden. 



The ox\\y known species is 



1878. Ophioerinus crotalurus Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 24, pi. 4, figs. 8 

 a-c. Upper Silur. Gotland, Sweden. 



12. BOTRYOCRINUS Angelin. 

 1878. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 24. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



A. Typical form. 



The crinoids of this type resemble in general form a tree with 

 many branches and branchlets. Calyx small, cyathiform, un- 

 sj-mmetrical. 



Underbasals five, slightly protuberant. Basals five, three of 

 them equal, the other two of somewhat different form, due to their 

 abutting against the anal plates. Radials large, articulating sur- 

 face concave, occupying more than three-fourths of the width of 

 the plate. Brachials less than one-half the size of the radials, 

 wider than high, their number varying in the rays from two to 

 five. 



Each ray is composed of two main arms from which, through? 

 out their entire length, spring two rows of branches, given off on 

 alternate sides from every second or third joint, and which ex- 

 tend to the very top of the specimen. The secondary arms branch 

 again, throwing off branchlets right and left, which themselves 

 ramify, thus producing branches of a third and fourth order. The 

 main arms are heavy, almost as wide at the base as the brachials, 

 and decreasing in size very gradually toward the tips. The sec- 

 ondary branches are about two-thirds the size of the former, and 

 those of the succeeding orders are slender, short, not reaching to 

 the top of the specimen. The plates of arms and branches of cor- 

 responding position, throughout the specimen, are of equal width 

 and height, those of the branches being relatively shorter. Ar- 

 ticulating face of arm joints and brachials circular. 



Anal plates two, arranged as in Homocrinus ; the lower one 

 rhomboidal, situated between two basals, the right posterior radial 

 and the second anal. The latter is larger, similar in form to the 

 radials, almost as large, and in line with them. Ventral sac of 

 medium width, composed of very regular hexagonal plates, alter- 

 nately arranged in rows. It is in form of a tube, and ascends 

 almost vertically to about one-fourth the length of the arm, where 

 it bends abruptly towards the posterior side and coils upon itself 

 like a snail. Anal aperture apparently located anteriorly at the 

 very base of the tube. 



Vault composed of a large number of small plates the exact ar- 

 rangement of which has not been ascertained. 



Column round, composed of thin joints. 



Botryocrinus agrees closest with Barycrinus, to the description 

 of which we refer for comparison. 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879" 



Geological position, etc. Known only in the Upper Silurian of 

 Sweden, where it is represented by the two following species: 



1878. Botryocrinus ramosissimus Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec , p. 24, pi. 20, 

 fig. 8 and PI. 23, fig. 14. Upper Silur. Gotland, Sweden. 



1878. Botryocr. corallum. Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 24, pi. 15, fig. 9, and 

 pi. 23, figs. 15, 16, and pi. 24, fig. 4. Upper Silur. Gotland, Sweden. 



B. Subgenus SICYOCRINUS Angelin. 

 1878. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 23. 



Sicyocrinus cucurbitaceus Angelin, the only known species of 

 this type, is so closely related to Botryocrinus that we think it 

 should be placed thereunder as a subgenus. The calyx, in form 

 and arrangement of plates, is alike in both, and even the arms and 

 ventral sac are constructed upon the same plan, but which is dif- 

 ferently executed. 



In Sicyocrinus there are five single arms, in place of five pairs, 

 which give off branches from one side only, and not alternately 

 from both sides as in the typical form. The branches, which are 

 represented up to the fourth order, diverge from the arm at a less 

 angle, and those of the third and fourth orders are comparatively 

 longer. The brachials, as well as the arm joints throughout the 

 branches, are from two to three and even four times longer than 

 wide, and have a deep ambulacral furrow. The ventral sac, as in 

 Botryocrinus, first ascends, then turns abruptly toward the pos- 

 terior side, and bends until its extremity points downwards. It 

 is now very remarkable that the portion of the tube which is bent 

 over is not only firmty attached exteriorly to the lower part by a 

 growth of plates, but it appears that its inner passage followed 

 the curvature of the tube, for on each lateral surface there are two 

 rows of fissures which follow exactly the line of deflection. Col- 

 umn obscurely pentagonal. 



1878. Sicyocrinus cucurbitaceus Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 24, pi. 4, fig. 

 9, and pi. 16, fig 5. Upper Silur. Gotland, Sweden. 



13 BARYCRINUS Wacbsmuth. 

 (Diagram PI. 1, Fig. 3.) 



1868. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil,, p. 338. 



This genus was founded upon a group of Crinoids which had 

 formerly been referred by Hall and Meek & Worthen to Gyatho- 

 crinics, differing, however, from it in several strongly marked fea- 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



tnres. In the first place the species are more robust, having 

 thicker and more ponderous plates which form a more shallow 

 cup. They also differ in having generally an extra quadrangular 

 anal piece, which is inserted toward the right lower margin of the 

 other anal, and although it is often very small, and in some rare 

 cases entirely wanting, it is characteristic as a rule, while such a 

 plate never occurs in Cyathocrinus. A more constant difference 

 is observable in the brachials, which are proportionally shorter 

 and wider, particularly the first one, which often presents an almost 

 linear appearance. In Cyathocrinus the number of brachials is 

 very irregular, but in Barycrinus, without exception, it is fixed at 

 two. The best means of distiifction, however, is afforded by the 

 arms, which in Barycrinus are composed of rather short, heavy, 

 rounded pieces, with very narrow ambulacral grooves, while Cya- 

 thocrinus has rather slender arms and wide, deep furrows. The 

 arms also instead of regularly dichotomizing, so as to form equal 

 divisions, are simple in Barycrinus and give off armlets at regular 

 intervals. The* column in this genus is almost unique in its con- 

 struction, and very distinct from that of Cyathocrinus. It is not 

 only stouter and subpentagonal, but is divided longitudinally into 

 five sections, and has a large, highly organized central canal. 



Barycrinus has its closest affinities with Botryocrinus Angl., 

 with which it agrees in the general construction of the arms and 

 in the anal arrangement, but from which it is easily distinguished 

 by its massive body plates, the number and proportion of its bra- 

 chials, and by the column. 



Generic Diagnosis. General form of the calyx basin or low 

 cup-shaped ; often attaining a gigantic size ; plates massive, more 

 or less gibbous or protuberant. Surface coarsely corrugated, 

 granulated, or striated, with frequently a depression at each angle 

 between the plates. 



Underbasals five, of less than medium size, fully one-half extend- 

 ing beyond the column, their points in form of little triangles bent 

 upward. 



Basals large, three of them sometimes four hexagonal, the 

 other two heptagonal. Radials five, very unequal in size, the 

 right posterior and often the anterior one much the lowest, all of 

 them wider than high, pentagonal in outline ; articulating scar 

 facing outward, concave, occupying from one-half to fully two- 

 thirds the width of the plate. Brachials, two to each ray, wide 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



and short, articulating face circular ; the first one extremely short 

 in the middle, one fourth as high as wide, and becoming still thin- 

 ner or wedge-shaped at each side ; the second is a little longer in 

 proportion and presents a subtrigonal outline, supporting on its 

 sloping upper sides two arms. 



Arms moderately long, robust, scarcely decreasing in size, and 

 generally simple throughout, though sometimes they branch once 

 on the third or fourth plate in some of the rays but never in 

 the anterior one and only in one arm to a ray, the other arm 

 always remaining simple. In one species, probably B. tumidus 

 Hall, from the Keokuk limestone, the antero-lateral raj's are en- 

 tirely simple, the arm plates and brachials forming a continuous 

 series. All the main arms, instead of bifurcating, give off at 

 regular intervals, alternately on opposite sides, and from the inner 

 margins of the plates, short, rounded, simple armlets, which in 

 most species throw off secondary branches as in Botryocrinus, and 

 these armlets, here as there, probably performed the office of pin- 

 nulse. The arm joints are simple, round, mostly shorter than 

 wide, with a narrow, almost linear ambulacral furrow. 



Anal plates generally two, never more. The lower plate which 

 is often very small is wanting in some few species, and in very 

 young specimens is frequently undeveloped, but when present, it 

 is located against the posterior basal and beneath the right radial ; 

 the larger, which stands in line with the radial, is generally of 

 about their height and half their width, quadrangular in outline. 

 Ventral sac and vault unknown, but both were evidently of a 

 delicate structure, as we have never seen a trace of them in an}^ of 

 our specimens. 



Column short, obtusely pentagonal, divided longitudinally into 

 five sections, which are in a radial position. The sutures are in- 

 terradial, the opposite of Heterocrinus in which the} r are radial; 

 they are bordered by little pores which apparently communicated 

 with the lai'ge pentangular central canal at its five angles. These 

 sutures extend throughout the entire length of the stem and partly 

 to the radicular cyrrhi, which are strong, ramifying, and radially 

 situated. The genus had evidently no cyrrhi along the column, 

 for we have examined with reference to this point a number of 

 specimens showing several feet of stem from near the body to, and 

 including the root, without discovering any trace of them. The 

 radicular cirrhi, which are long and strong, are given off radially. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



The inner canal is large throughout and increases in size toward 

 the root. 



Geological position, etc. The genus has a very limited range. 

 It occurs so far as known only in the Subcarboniferous, and in 

 America, where it first appeal's in the Lower Burlington lime- 

 stone. It is found in the greatest profusion and size in the Keo- 

 kuk, and has only two representatives in the Warsaw, where it 

 becomes extinct. 



We recognize 23 species, 2 of them being doubtful. 



I860. Barycrinus angulatus Meek & Worthen. (Cyathocr. angulatus.) Proc. 



Acad. Nat. Sei. Phil., p. 3 ( J1 ; Geol. Rep. 111., vol. ii. p. 234, pi. 17, fig. 4; 



Barycr. angulatus, 1868, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 340. Burlington 



and Keokuk transition bed. Subcarb. Nauvoo, Illinois (probably syn. of 



B. sculptilis Hall). 

 1858. Barycr. bullatus Hall. (Cyathocr. bullatus.) Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i. pt. 



ii. p. 624, pi. 18, fig. 1. Barycr. bullatus M. & W. 1868. Proc. Acad. Nat. 



Sci. Phil., p. 340. Keokuk limest. Subcarb. Keokuk, Iowa. 

 Sy?i-. Cyathocr. protuberans Hall. Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i. pt. ii. p. 626, pi. 



18, fig. 9. 

 1850. Barycr. cornutus Owen & Shumard. (Cyathocr. comutus.) Jour. Acad. 



Nat. Sci. Phil. (2d ser.), vol. ii. ; U. S. Geol. Surv. Wise , Iowa, and 



Minn., p. 561, pi. 5, fig. 8 a, b ; Barycr. comutus, 1868. Proc. Acad. 



Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 340. Lower Burl, limest. Subcarb. Burlington, 



Iowa. 



1860. Barycr. crassibrachiatus Hall. (Cyathocr. crassibracMatus.) Supp. Geol. 



Rep. Iowa, p. 60; Barycr. crassibrachiatus, 186S. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phil., p. 340. Keokuk limest. Subcarb. Warsaw, III. 

 1873. (?) Barycr. geometricus Meek & Worthen. (Cyathocr. 1 undetermined.) 

 Geol. Rep. 111., vol. iii. pi. 20, fig. 5 a-c ; vol. v. pi. 12, fig. 3. Keokuk 

 limest. Subcarb. Warsaw, 111. 



The original specimen is very imperfect, possibly Niptero- 

 crinus. 



*1868. Barycr. herculeus Meek & Worthen. (B. Hoveyi var. herculeus.) 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 341; Geol Rep. 111., vol. v. p. 485, pi. 13, 

 fi<r. 2. Keokuk limest. Subcarb. Crawfordsville, Ind. 



This is a good species, and not a variety. 



1861. Barycr. Hoveyi Hall. (Cyathocr. Hoveyi.) Desc. New. Pal. Crin., p. 5; 



Bost. Jour. Nat. Hist., p. 293 ; Meek & Worthen, 1873. B Hoveyi, 



Geol. Rep. 111. vol. v. p. 486, pi. 13, fig. 1. Keokuk limest. Subcarb. 



Crawfordsville, Ind. 

 *1862. Barycr. Kelloggi White. (Cyathocr. Kelloggi.) Proc. Bost. Soo. Nat. 



Hist., p. 8. Keokuk limest Subcarb. Biggsville, III. 

 1858 Barycr. magister Hall. (Cyathocr. magister.) Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i. 



pt. ii. pi. 18, figs. 2, 3 ; B. ?nagister, 1868, Proc Acad. Nat. Soi. Phil., 



p. 340. Keokuk limest. Subcarb. Keokuk, Iowa. 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18 19 



1868. Barycr. magnificus Meek & Worthen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 



340. Geol Rep. Ill , vol. v. p. 483, pi. 12, fig. 2. Keokuk liraest. Sub. 



carb. Biggsville, 111. 

 1873. Barycr. mammatus' Worthen. Geol. Rep. 111., vol v p. 486, pi. 15, fig. 



4. Keokuk limest. Subcarb. Otter Creek, 111. 

 1873. Barycr. pentagonus Worthen. Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. p 487, pi. 15, fig 3. 



Keokuk liinest. Subcarb. Jersey Co., III. 

 *1850. Barycr. rhombiferus Owen & Shumard. (Poteriocr. rhombiferus.) Jour. 



Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., new ser., vol. ii. U S. Geol. Saw. of Wise, Iowa, 



and Min., p 595, pi. 5 B, figs. 2 a, b, c. Lower Burl, limest. Subcarb. 



Burlington, Iowa. 

 1860 Barycr. sculptilis Hall. (Cyathocr. sculptilis.) Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, 



p. 59; B. sculptilis, 1868. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 340. Upper 



Burl, limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 

 Sy)i. Cyathocr. latus Hall, 1861. Desc. New. Pal. Foss.,p. 5; and Bost. 



Jour., p. 292. 

 Syti. Cyathocr. scitulus Meek & Worlhen, 1863. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phil., p. 393. 

 1861. Barycr. solidus Hall. (Cyathocr. solidus.) Desc. New Pal. Crin., p. 5. 



Bost. Jour. Nat. Hist., p. 293 ; B. solidus, 1S68. Proc. Acad. Nat, Sci. 



Phil., p. 340. Upper Burl, limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1869. Barycr. spectabilis Meek & Worthen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil. ; Geol. 



Rep. 111., vol. v. p. 530, pi. 20, fig. 8. Warsaw limest. Subcarb. Jersey 



Co., 111. " 

 1858. Barycr. spurius Hall. (Cyathocr. spurius.) Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i. pt. 



ii. p. 625, pi. 18, figs. 7, 8 ; B. spurius, 1868. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil , 



p. 340. Keokuk limest. Subcarb. Keokuk, Iowa. 

 *1858. Barycr. stellatus Hall. (Cyathocr. stellatus.) Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i. 



pt. ii. p. 623, pi. 16, figs. 3, 8. Keokuk limest. Subcarb. Keokuk, 



Iowa. 

 Syu. Cyathocr. quinquelobus Meek & Worthen, 1865. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phil., p. 150. Geol. Rep. 111., vol. iii. p. 519, pi. 20, figs. 6 a, b. 

 1875. (?) Barycr. striatus Worthen. Geol. Rep. 111., vol. vi. p. 515, pi. 29, fig. 5. 



Keokuk limest. Subcarb. Jersey Co., 111. 



This is certainly not Barycrinus. The Hues of the sutures in 

 the figure are drawn incorrectly, as, according to it, the basals 

 are radial in position. It is most probably a Dichocrinus. 



1865. Barycr. subtumidus Meek & Worthen. (Cyathocr. subtumidus.) Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 151, Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. p. 487, pi. 13, fig. 3; 

 B. subtumidus, 1868. Proc. Acad. Phil. p. 340. Keokuk limest. Sub- 

 carb. Greene Co., 111. 



1860. Barycr. Thomae Hall. (Cyathocr. Thomae.) Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 61 ; 

 B. Thomce, 1868. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 340. Warsaw limest. 

 Subcarb. Warsaw, 111. 



1 We are well aware that a number of these Keokuk species of Bary- 

 crinus are mere variations of earlier types, but as our material is too limited 

 for comparison, we give them as they were described. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



1858. Barycr. tumidus Hall. (Cyathocr. tumidus.) Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i. 



pt. ii. p. 624, pi. 18, figs. 1 b, c. B. tumidus, 1868. Proc. Acad. Nat. 



Sci. Phil., p. 340. Keokuk lhnest. Subcarb. Keokuk, Iowa. 

 1861. Barycr. Wachsmuthi Meek & Worthen. (Cyathocr. Wachsmuthi.) Proc. 



Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 136, Geol. Rep. 111., vol. iii. p 482, pi. 16, fig 5 ; 



B. Wachsmuthi, 1868. Proc. Acad. Phil., p. 340. Lower Burl, limest. 



Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 



14. POTERIOCRINUS, Miller. 



1821. Poteriocrinites Miller. A History of the Crinoidea, p. 65. 



1835. Poteriocrinus Agassiz. Mem. de la Soc. de Neuch., vol. i. 



1836. Poteriocrinus Phillips. Geology of Yorkshire, p. 205. 

 1843. Poteriocrinus Austin. Rec. and Foss. Crin., p. 68. 



1853. Poteriocrinus de Koninck & Lehon. Recher. s. 1. Crin. Belg., p. 84. 

 1849. Cupressocrinus McCoy. Ann. & Mag. Nat, Hist., ser. ii. vol. ii. (not 



Goldf.). 

 1858. Scaphiocrinus Hall. (Subgenus of Poteriocr.) Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 



550. (Not Oraphiocrinus de Koninck & Lehon.) 

 1866. Poteriocrinites Meek & Worthen. Geol. Rep. Ill, vol. ii. p. 179. 

 1866. Scaphiocrinus Meek & "Worthen. (Subgenus of Poteriocr.) Ibid. 



vol. ii. p. 237. 



1866. Poteriocrinus Schultze. Mon. Echinod. Eifl. Kalk. p. 42. 



1867. Hydriocrinus Trautschold. Bull, de la Soc. Imp. des Naturalists de 



Moscou, p. 16. 



(Diagram PI. 2, No. 7.) 



In no other genus of the Crinoids is there found so much con- 

 fusion as in the one now under consideration. This is partly due 

 to* the imperfect preservation of the specimens from which the 

 earlier descriptions were made, and also, no doubt, to the species 

 themselves upon which Miller founded the genus. Neither of his 

 two species of Poteriocrinus can be considered characteristic types 

 of the genus, and unfortunately among his four species of Cya- 

 thocrinus the genus with which Poteriocrinus was afterwards 

 so often confounded only one can be properly claimed for that 

 genus, two of them having been later referred to very distinct 

 groups, and the fourth is a Poteriocrinus. 



According to Miller, the pelvis of Poteriocrinus is composed 

 of five pentagonal plate-like joints, supporting five hexagonal in- 

 tercostal plate-like joints, and five plate-like scapulas with an 

 intercostal and an interscapulary plate interposed ; an arm pro- 

 ceeds from each scapula; column round, composed of narrow 

 joints with a central perforation. This embraces everything in 

 Miller's description which might be deemed of generic importance, 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



but it is fully sufficient for identification, as it affords the means 

 of separating this form from the only other genus of this family 

 then known. It gives us unquestionable evidence of the existence 

 of at least two anal plates within the calyx, which are plainly 

 shown in the diagrams ; while in Miller's typical species of Gya 

 thocrinus only a single anal plate is mentioned or figured, which 

 is wedged in between the scapulae or first radial plates. 



In the description of P. crassus, which is Miller's first species, 

 and ought to be the t3 7 pe of the genus, he gives additional infor- 

 mation regarding the scapulae or radials. They are described as 

 thin plates, obliquely truncated at the upper margins, excavated 

 with a horseshoe-like impression occupying scarcely more than 

 one-third the width of the plates. Miller's second species agrees 

 well with the preceding. It has only one brachial, which is a 

 bifurcating plate, narrow, four to five times longer than wide, 

 supporting an arm on each side. Only one arm is preserved 

 which has the same dimensions as the brachial, and a deep ainlm- 

 lacral furrow. Miller also found minute plates indicating that 

 the abdominal cavity and perhaps also the excavated sulci in the 

 arms were protected by a plated integument. 



It thus appears that the calyx of Poteriocrinus, acccording to 

 Miller, is composed of three rings of plates, 5 underbasals, 5 basals, 

 and 5 radials ; that there are not less than two anal plates, one alter- 

 nating with the basals (intercostals) and another between the ra- 

 dials ; that the radials in the two then known species are excavated 

 for the attachment of the brachials, the articulating scar occup3 7 ing 

 only one-third the width of the plate; that in P. tenuis, the only 

 species in which any part above the calyx was known, there is only 

 a single brachial which is a very long, slender plate, and that the 

 arm joints, so far as known, were found to be long and propor- 

 tioned like the brachials. The calyx of both species is subcorneal, 

 and both came from the Subcarboniferous of England. Miller 

 describes the basals as being hexagonal, which is not quite cor- 

 rect. It was shown by de Koninck and Lehon that three of the 

 subradials (basals) are hexagonal or heptagonal and of a similar 

 form, while the other two those in contact with the anal plates 

 have one or two additional sides, and are slightly larger. The 

 same authors also point out the fact, that four of the radials are 

 of equal size, pentagonal, regularly alternating with the basals, 

 but that the right posterior one, which is rather smaller and 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 329 



elevated above the line of the others, is less regular in form and 

 rests upon the truncated upper side of the basal and against 

 the two anal pieces, differing therein from Cyathocrinus, in which 

 basals and radials alternate all around. They consider the latter 

 a very important distinction between the two genera, but they 

 further assert that the best character for separation is to be found 

 in the presence of a single aperture in the dome of Poteriocrinus, 

 and of a separate oral and anal opening in Gyathocrinus. This 

 unfortunate and altogether incorrect statement on the part of de 

 Koninck has caused the utmost confusion, and when it was shown 

 by Meek & Worthen that the supposed oral aperture is closed in 

 perfect specimens in the one as well as in the other, some of the 

 leading authorities in Europe, who had previously expressed their 

 doubts as to the genus Cyathocrinus, wished to abandon it alto- 

 gether. We, for our part, cannot endorse this proposition, for we 

 think that the two genera are nicely defined by good generic char- 

 acters; and that has been the opinion of the American Paleon- 

 tologists generally, which has probabty arisen from the fact that 

 this country has produced far better specimens. 



But while American authors agree thus far, they differ in regard 

 to the proper limits of the genera. When in the course of recent 

 years a great variety of forms of Poteriocrinus were discovered , 

 Hall undertook to divide them subgenerieally, but in this he was 

 not very successful. In establishing his subgenus Scaphiocrinus T 

 he selected Scaphiocr. (?) simplex as type, a species which in its 

 anal arrangement and arm structure, though clearly distinct 

 from Poteriocrinus, agrees exactly with Graphiocrinus de Koninck 

 & Lehon. The majority of species, however, which were described 

 under Scaphiocrinus, agree substantially, both in the arms and 

 anal area, with Poteriocrinus, and we see no possibility of separat- 

 ing them. This may appear strange, for, on looking over a large 

 collection of Poteriocrinus, it seems to embrace a number of very 

 different groups; but an attempt to separate them will invariably 

 result in finding but few species agreeing in the same points. 



Hall defines Scaphiocrinus as follows: radials 2x5, botli pen- 

 tagonal, the first with the upper side straight or obliquely concave 

 the second with the lower side straight, often much elongated 

 and the plates contracted or concave on each side; anals four or 

 more; arms double from their origin, or rarely simple in the 

 anterior ray; arm plates simple, often wedge-shaped, with pinnulse 

 22 




330 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



originating on the longer side of the plate; the line of articulation 

 between first and second radials more or less gaping exteriorly, 

 and the edge of the plate rounded. Among the species referred 

 to Scaphiocrinns there are some with two brachials (three radials, 

 Hall), others with but one; some with long slender brachials, 

 others with short ones; some in which the brachials occupy the 

 entire width of the upper margin of the radials, others scarcely 

 one-third, and with a horseshoe-like articulating scar; some with 

 a shallow almost concave calyx, others with a nearly cylindrical 

 one; in some species the arms are simple, with short joints, in others 

 branching, with long joints, or vice versa; in some the pinnulae 

 are strong, and the arms zigzag, in others thin and short, and the 

 arms straight; but all agree, with the exception of the few species 

 which we refer to Graphiocrinus (and among the latter Hall's 

 Scaphiocr. simplex), in the construction of the anal area, which is 

 exactly as described in Poteriocrinus, and in having a strong 

 cylindrical or slightly club-shaped ventral sac. 



Our own attempt to subdivide Poteriocrinxis subgenerically met 

 with but little better success, though we had the advantage of 

 subsequent discoveries. A division based upon the number of 

 free radials or brachials as they are now called cannot be carried 

 out practically. Species with two brachials are not otherwise 

 distinct from those with but one, and Hall himself, who founded 

 Scaphiocrinus upon the presence of a single brachial, and likewise, 

 Meek and Worthen, included therein several species with an addi- 

 tional brachial. In this they were evidently justified, for the 

 additional plate, according to our views, is only a supplementary 

 piece, which facilitates the motion of the arms, but has no effect 

 upon the general structure of the animal. The two brachials 

 combined have the form and size of the single one in fact it is a 

 compound plate, and this term properly expresses its relations. 



Nor can the gaping sutures be regarded as of generic import- 

 ance. We look upon this structure merely as another mode of 

 articulation taking place upon a straight hinge line instead of a 

 sloping semicircular scar and the gradations from one form to 

 another are so close, that it is impossible to separate groups thereby. 

 Nevertheless, to facilitate the identification of species, w r hich is 

 alwa3 r s difficult when there is a large number in a single group, 

 we have separated Poteriocrinus, as well as could be ascertained 

 from the descriptions and figures, with the aid of our own exten- 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



sive collections, into six divisions, for which we propose distinct 

 names. In doing so, however, we wish to have it understood that 

 we scarcely deem the characters upon which they are based suffi- 

 ciently important even for subgeneric separation. Still better dis- 

 tinctions may be discovered hereafter, and in the mean time this 

 arrangement will prove very convenient for comparative stud}'. 



The genus Poteriocrinus, of which there are now over a hundred 

 species known and described, was thought by Miller to be repre- 

 sented altogether by two, and of these the material at his com- 

 mand was very limited and imperfect, so that probably in order 

 to make the most of what he had to render his descriptions as 

 perfect as possible and to prove some of his theories more effectu- 

 ally he in some cases reconstructed the specimens from frag- 

 mentary pieces, which he supposed to be parts of the same species, 

 but which, as we now know, belonged, at least in some instances, 

 to different genera. The fact that Miller's figures cannot be re- 

 lied upon, and that his best original specimens can nowhere be 

 found (Austin), has produced continual trouble. Some of his 

 species have been badly defined by subsequent writers. This is 

 evidently the case with his typical species P. crassus. It is true 

 Miller's figures are not so intelligible as might be wished, yet 

 they prove plainly that the plates of the calyx in that species are 

 thin, with elevations radiating from a point near the centre of the 

 plates and meeting at the sutures those from adjoining plates. 

 Such costse as these elevations have often been called are found 

 very prominent in several species of Poteriocrinus from the Bur- 

 lington limestone, and in these they are not mere external mark- 

 ings, but are produced by a flexure of the plate itself. That the 

 structure was similar in P. crassus is plainly indicated by Fig. 7 Gr, 

 which represents folds on the inner surface of a radial not inter- 

 costal, as Miller makes it. In the figures of de Koninck's so-called 

 P. crassus, the plates, on the contrary, are massive, without plica- 

 tions, the surface simply granulose, and the articulating scar, 

 which in Miller's specimens scarcely fills one-third the width of 

 the radials, extends almost the entire breadth of the plate. Strange 

 as it may appear, it seems as if de Koninck took the plications 

 which in Miller's principal figures somewhat indistinctly resemble 

 the parasitic excrescences of one of his own specimens to be the 

 work of parasites ; and in no other way can we account for his 

 supposing such distinct forms to belong to the same species. The 




.332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



same difficulty exists in regard to Austin's figures, who has repre- 

 sented under P. crassus two or more distinct species. 



The identification of P. tenuis, Miller's second species, is equally 

 doubtful, and in our opinion altogether unreliable. The arms as 

 there figured certainly do not belong to that calyx nor that column, 

 and we are confident that the two latter pertain to Poteriocrinus 

 and the former to Cyathocrinus. We may here remark that while 

 we have experienced scarcel} 7 any difficulty in referring the known 

 species to Poteriocrinus and Cyathocrinus respectively, we find 

 in all of Miller's species, in one way or another, characters alto- 

 gether at variance with the rules we have laid down for distinguish- 

 ing the two genera. Under these circumstances the question arises 

 whether it is not in the interest of science to adopt a new or at 

 least an additional type for the genus. This may somewhat con- 

 flict with the rules and practices of naturalists, but in this case we 

 consider it the only adequate remedy. We accordingly propose 

 for this purpose Poteriocrinus notabilis Meek & Worthen, from 

 the Burlington limestone, the original of which, formerly in the 

 collection of C. W. and now in the Museum of Comp. Zool. of 

 Cambridge, Mass., is figured in the Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v., pi. 1, 

 fig. 9. We have selected this species because it is found in very 

 perfect preservation, and because it agrees most closely with Mil- 

 ler's typical species, and certainly belongs to the same division. 



Making this the typical form, we further propose as sections 

 under it Scaphiocrinus Hall, with S. dichotomies Hall's second 

 species (the first being referred to Graphiocrinus) for type; 

 Parisocrinus W. & Spr., with Poteriocr. perplexus M. & W.; 

 Pachylocrinus W. & Spr., with Poteriocr. subsequalis W. & Spr. 

 (Hall's Poteriocr. sequalis)', Scylalocrinus W. & Spr., with Poteri- 

 ocr. robustus Hall, Decadocrinus, with Scaphiocr. scalaris M. & 

 W., respectively as types; and as we regard these sections rather 

 as variations of the genus, which hardly rise to the dignity of 

 subgenera, we shall for the present write the names with that of 

 the parent genus prefixed. There are some other species, only 

 knowm from the calyx which could not be satisfactorily arranged 

 under the above groups, and these will be found in a list by them- 

 selves. 



Generic Diagnosis. General form of body with arms, elongate, 

 subcylindrical, expanding uniformly upward. Calyx very variable 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



in shape, subcorneal or subturbinate, sometimes bell, cup, or almost 

 saucer-shaped; arrangement of plates unsymmetrieal. 



Underbasals five, equal in form and size, forming a more or less 

 depressed pentagonal cup. Basals five, three of them hexagonal 

 or heptagonal, and of the same size, the two others those adjacent 

 to the anals slightly larger, and with one or two additional sides. 

 Radials wider than high, four of a similar pentagonal form, and 

 alternating regularly with the basals; the fifth slightly smaller, 

 elevated above the level of the others, less regular in form, resting 

 upon the truncated upper side of one basal and against two anal 

 pieces. Articulating surface very variable, the scar for the attach- 

 ment of the brachials occupying in the typical species scarcely 

 one-third of the upper edge, but in some species it extends across 

 the entire margin of the radials with a hinge-like apparatus for 

 articulation. Brachials one to two or more, their number the 

 same in four of the rays, the anterior having often a few additional 

 plates. In species with only one brachial it is generally long and 

 laterally constricted; in those with two brachials, the first is 

 quadrangular and short, and both combined are equivalent in form 

 and size to the single plate of the other type. 



Arms simple or branching; the anterior ray, frequently less 

 developed than the others, is sometimes simple throughout ; com- 

 posed of single joints, generally at least as high as wide, often 

 much higher, more or less wedge-shaped, and throwing off pinnulse 

 alternately. In species whose pinnules have a decidedly zigzag 

 arrangement the}' are remarkably strong. 



Anals three (rarely four) within the calyx, in two rows alter- 

 nately arranged; the lower one pentagonal, resting against the 

 sloping upper side of the posterior basal and the radial to the 

 right; the second supported by the upper truncated side of the 

 posterior basal, having on the left a radial, on the right the first 

 and third anal plates, the third being sometimes partly above the 

 level of the calyx. Succeeding plates hexagonal, decreasing in 

 size upwards, forming a part of the ventral sac. Ventral sac up- 

 right, strong, cylindrical, sometimes club-shaped, either extending 

 up to the top of the arms or more than half wa} T , frequently 

 crowned with a set of long spines. Plates of the sac hexagonal, 

 and pierced at the sutures with pores or fissures, which penetrate 

 the lateral margins of the plates. Anal opening rarely observed, 




334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



but in all cases, so far as known, low down and situated laterally, 

 not posteriorly. 



Dome constructed like that of Cyathocrinus. Apical dome 

 plates frequently pushed toward the front by the large ventral sac. 



Column round or pentagonal, composed of thin joints with a 

 small central aperture. 



Geological position, etc Poteriocrinus has not been found in 

 the Silurian, neither in this country nor in Europe; the few species 

 which were recorded from that age having since been referred to 

 Dendrocrinus, Homocrinus, etc. It nourished to some extent in 

 the Devonian, but reached its climax both in variety of form and 

 number of individuals in the Subcarboniferous. There are known 

 IT species from the Devonian and 99 from the Subcarboniferous, 

 of which 21 are from Europe and 89 from America. The species 

 are arranged under the respective sections as follows: 



A. Typical form. 



Cal}'x obconical, plates delicate, with elevated wrinkles or radi- 

 ating plications. Kadials with a semicircular scar facing outward, 

 and deeply notched, not filling the full width of the plate. Bra- 

 chials one by five, long, laterall}- constricted in the middle. 

 Sutures somewhat gaping. Arms long and brandling. Ventral 

 sac very long and hea\ r 3 r . Column round. 



1866. Poteriocrinus angulosus SchuHze. Echinod. Eifl. Kalk., p. 50, pi. 5, figs. 



3, 3 a. Devonian. Eifel, Germany. 

 1821. Poteriocr. crassus Miller. (Miller's type of the genus.) Nat. Hist. Crin., 



p. 68, with figures; Schlottlein, 1822. Nachtr. Petrefactenkunde, vol. i. 



p. 82; Id., vol. ii. p. 93, pi. 25, fig. 2; Blainville, 1834. Mon. de Actin., 



p. 260, pi. 29, fig. 1 ; L. Agassiz, 1835. Mem. de la Soc. de Neuch., vol. i. 



p. 197; Milne Edwards, 1836. Lamarck's Anim. s. vert., 2d ed., vol. ii. p. 



664; DeKoninck, 1842. Desc. des Anim. Foss. du Terr. Carb., p. 46, pi. F. 



fig. 4; Austin, 1843. Rec. and Foss. Crin., p. 69, pi. 8, figs. 3 a-k, and pi. 



9, fig. 1 ; De Koninck and Lehon, 1853. Recherch. s. les Crin. Belg., p. 97, pi. 



1, fig. 10 a-d. Subcarb. Yorkshire, England, and Vise, Belgium. 



It is very doubtful whether specimens figured by these various 

 authors represent the same species. De Koninck refers Austin's 

 figures, pi. 8, fig. a-f and pi. 9, fig. 1, to Pot. spissus, while he 

 himself figures a specimen which very probably belongs to Bary- 

 crinus. See our remarks on the genus. 



*1861. Poteriocr. doris Hall. (ScapMocr. doris.) Desc. New. Pal. Crin., p. 7, 

 Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 310. Upper Burl, limest. Subcarb. Burling- 

 ton, Iowa. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



*1869. Poteriocr. notabilis Meek and Worthen. (Scaphiocr. notabilis.) Pro- 

 posed type of the genus. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 148. Geol. Rep. 

 111., vol. v. p. 410, pi. 1, fig. 9. Lower Burl, liuiest. Subcarb. Burlington, 

 Iowa. 



1862. Poteriocr. obuncus White. Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., p. 11. Lower Burl. 

 limest. Subcarb. Burliagton, Iowa. 



1842. Poteriocr. plicatus Austin. Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. (ser. 1), vol. x. p. 

 108; Id., vol. xi. p. 196. Mon. Rec. and Foss. Crin., p. 79, pi. 9, figs. 4 

 a-f ; DeKoninck and Lehon, Recherch. Crin. Belg., p. 100, pi. 1, fig. 11. 

 Subcarb. Bristol, England, and Tournay, Belgium. 



1854. Poteriocr. spissus DeKon. and Lehon. Recherd. s. les Crin. Belg., p. 100, 

 pi. i. figs. 9 a, b. Subcarb. Avon, England. 



1866. Poteriocr. stellaris Schultze. Mon. Echinod. Eifl. Kalk., p. 49, pi. 5, fig. 2. 



Devonian. Eifel, Germany. 

 *1861. Poteriocr. Whitei Hall. (Scaphiocr. Wbitei.) Desc. New. Pal. Crin., p. 

 7, Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 306. Lower Burl, limest. Subcarb. Bur- 

 lington, Iowa. 



B. SCAPHIOCRINUS Hall (modified by W. & Spr.). 



1858. ScapMocrinus Hall (subgenus of Poteriocr.). Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. 

 i. pi. ii. p. 550. 



1867. Hydriocrinus Traatschold, Bull. de. Moscou, p. 16. 



Calyx obconical to semiovoid. Radials truncate above ; bra- 

 chials simple or compound, and similar in form to the radials, but 

 truncate below; line of articulation straight, occupying the full 

 width of the plate ; sutures gaping. Column round, obscurely 

 pentagonal, or even pentalobate. 



a. Species with a Simple Brachial. 



*1859. Pot. (ScapMocrinus) aequalis Hall (not Scaphiocr. aequalis Hall, 1861, 

 Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 316 = Pot. (Pack //locri)U(s) irregularis, W. & 

 Spr.). Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 63. Lower Burl, limest. Subcarb. Bur- 

 lington, Iowa. 

 Syn. Scaphiocr. solidus M. & W. 1861. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 60. 

 Syn. Scaphiocr. tenuidactylus M. & W. 1865. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 p. 156. Geol. Rep. III., vol. iii. pi. 18, fig. 10. 



#1864. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) corycea Hall. (Pot. corycea) 17th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab., 

 p. 57. Geol. Sur. Ohio, Pa*., vol. ii. p. 173, pi. 12, fig. 9. Waverly Gr. 

 Subcarb. Richfield, Ohio. 



1869. Pot. iScaphiocr.) coreyi Meek & Worthen (not Pot. coreyi, Worthen. Geol. 

 Rep. III., vol. vi. p. 514 = Pot. Scytaloerinus grandis, W. & Sp.). Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 148. Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. pi. 15, fig. 1. Keo- 

 kuk limest. Subcarb. Crawfordsville, Ind. 



1864. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) crineus Hall. 17th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab., p. 56. Geol. 

 Surv. Ohio, Pal., vol. ii. p. 172 pi. 12, figs. 6, 7. Waverly Gr. Subcarb. 

 Richfield, Ohio. 



1858. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) dactyliformis Hall. Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i. pt. ii. p. 670, 

 pi. 17, fig. 6. St. Louis limest. Subcarb. St. Louis, Mo. 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



1869. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) delicatus Meek & Worthen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sei. Phila., 

 p. 144; Geol. Rep. HI., vol. v. p. 407, pi. 1, fig. 10. Upper Burl, limest. 

 Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 



1860. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) divaricatus Hall. Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 65. War- 

 saw limest. Subcarb. Illinois and Indiana. 



1858. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) dichotomus Hall. (Type of Scaphiocrinus, as proposed 

 by us.) Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i. pt. ii. p. 553. Upper Burl, limest. Sub- 

 carb. Burlington, Iowa. 



1873. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) Huntsvillae Worthen. Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. p. 534, pi. 

 20, fig. 1. St. Louis limest. Subcarb. Huntsville, Ala. 



*1860. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) Keokuk Hall. (Poteriocr. Keokuk.) Supp Geol. Rep. 

 Iowa, p. 64. Keokuk limest. Subcarb. Keokuk Iowa. 



1858. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) internodius Hall. Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i. pt. ii. p. 679, 

 pi. 25, fig. 2. Chester limest. Subcarb. Chester, 111. 



*1843. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) isacobus Austin. (Poteriocr. isacobus.) Ann.andMng. 

 Nat. Hist., vol. ii. p 195. Mon. Rec. and Foss. Crin. , p. 74, pi. 8, fig. 4 

 a, b. Subcarb. England and Ireland. 



1869. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) nanus Meek & Worthen (not Poteriocr. nanus, Ad. Roe- 

 mer, 1868 = Homocrtuus nanus). Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 141; 

 Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. p. 423, pi. 1, fig. 8. Lower Burl, limest. Subcarb. 

 Burlington, Iowa. 



1869. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) penicillus Meek & Worth. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 p. 142. Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. p. 414, pi. 2, fig. 7. Upper Burl, limest. 

 Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 



*1S67. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) pusillus Trautschold (Hydriocrinus pusillus). Bull.de 

 la Soc. Imp. des Naturalists de Moscou, p. 16, pi. ii. fig. 9; Quenstedt. 

 Petrefact. Deutschlands, iv. p. 527, pi. 108, fig. 47. Trautschold, 1879. 

 Kalkbriiche von Mjatschkowa, p. 116, pi. 14, fig. 4, and pi. 15, fig. 2. Up- 

 per Subcarb. Near Moscow, Russia. 



1861. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) ramulosus Hall. Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 307. Upper 

 Burl, limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 



1873. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) Randolphensis Worthen. Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. p. 551, 

 pi. 21, fig. 14. Chester limest. Subcarb. Chester, III. 



1863. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) rusticellus White. Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 505. Up- 



per Burl, limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1858. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) scoparius Hall. Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i. pt. ii. p. 680, pi. 



25, fig. 3. Chester limest. Subcarb. Chester, III. 

 *1852. (?)Pot. (Scaphiocr.) spinosus Owen & Shumard (Poteriocr. spinosus). U. 



S. Geol. Surv. Wis., Iowa, and Min., p. 596, pi. v B, fig. 4. Chester limest. 



Subcarb. Grayson Co., Ky. 



It is possible that this species belougs to Hydreionocrinus the 

 figure is very imperfect. 



1864. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) subcarinatus Hall. 17th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab., p. 58; 



Geol. Surv. Ohio, Pal., vol. ii. p. 176, pi. 12, figs. 13, 14. Waverly Gr. 

 Subcarb. Richfield, Ohio. 

 *1861. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) subimpressus Meek & Worthen (Poteriocr. subimpres- 

 sus). Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 138. Geol. Rep. 111., vol. iii. p. 

 485 pi. 18, fig. 1 a, b. Lower Burl, limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 337 



1869. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) thetys Meek & Worthen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 



p. 143. Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. p. 419, pi. 2, fig. 13. Upper Burl, limest. 



Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1861. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) unicus Hall. Desc. New Pal. Crin., p. 8. Bost. Journ. 



Nat. Hist., p. 313. Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. pi. 15, fig. 5. Keokuk limest. 



Subcarb. Crawfordsville, Ind. 

 1861. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) verticellus Hall. 15th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab., p. 122. 



Hamilton Gr. Devonian. Ontario Co., N. Y. 



b. Species ivith Compound Brachials. 



*1861. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) carinatus Hall (not Poteriocr. carinatus M. & W. = 



Pot. (Pachylocr.) liliiformis M. & W.). Desc. New Pal. Crin., p. 8, Bost. 



Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 310. Upper and Lower Burl, limest. Subcarb. Bur- 

 lington, Iowa. 

 1869. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) clio Meek & AVorthen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pbila., p. 



144. Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. pi. 1, fig. 10. Upper Burl, limest. Subcarb. 



Burlington, Iowa. 

 *1860 Pot. (Scaphiocr.) cultidactylus Hall (Poteriocr. cultidactylus). Supp. 



Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 62. Lower Burl, limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 

 *1843. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) longidactylus Austin (Poteriocr. londactylus) (not 



Shumard, 1855, nor McChesney, 1859). Mon. Rec. and Foss. Crin., p. 88; 



pi. 11. fig. 3 a. Subcarb. England. 

 1878. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) Gibsoni White. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 31. 



Keokuk limest. Crawfordsville, Ind. 

 1878. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) Gurleyi White. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 32. 



Keokuk limest. Crawfordsville, Ind. 

 *1857. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) missouriensis Shumard. First described as Poteriocr. 



longidactylus (Shumard, not Austin). Geol. Rep. Missouri, p. 188, pi. B, 



figs. a-c. St. Louis limest. Subcarb. St. Louis, Mo. 



It differs from all other species in this group in having a single 

 arm to each ray, the first bifurcation taking place at the tenth or 

 twelfth plate. 



*1867. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) multiplex Trautschold (Poteriocr. multiplex). Bull. 



de Moscou, No. 3, p. 6, pi. 2, figs. 1-8 ; also F. Roemer, Lethsea Geognost., 



pi. 40, fig. 11. Trautschold, 1879, Steinbriiche von Mjatsohkowa, p. 112, 



pi. 14, fig. 2, and pi. 15, fig. 1. Upper Subcarb. Near Moscow, Russia. 

 1865. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) Norwoodi Meek & Worthen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 



p. 158. St. Louis limest. Subcarb. Hancock Co., 111. 

 *1875. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) proboscidlalis Worthen (Poteriocr. proboscidialis) 



Geol. Rep. 111., vol. vi. p. 518, pi. 31, fig. 1. St. Louis limest. Subcarb. 



St. Louis, Mo. 

 *1860. Pot. (Scaphiocr.) Swallovi Meek & Worthen (Poteriocr. Swallovi). Proc 



Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 394. Geol. Rep. 111., vol. ii. pi. 16, figs. 4 a, b. 



Upper Burl, limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



C. PARISOCRINUS W. & Spr. 

 (7raf>3-o? resembling, *j>7vo* a lily.) 



Calyx obconical. Differs from the last group in having two or 

 more brachials, which are short and rest within a small semicir- 

 cular scar. Mode of articulation and brandling of arms almost 

 as in Cyathocrinus. Column round, rarely pentangular. 



1858. Poteriocrinus (Parisocrinus) curtus Muller. Verb. d. nat. Verein f. Rheinl., 

 xii. p. 80, pi. 10, figs. 2, 3. Neue. Echin. Eifl. Kalk., p. 230, pi. 2, fig. 3 ; 

 Schultze, 1866, Echin. Eifl. Kalk. p. 46, pi. 5, fig. 5. Devonian. Eifel, 

 Germany. 



*185S. Pot. (Parisocr.) intermedius Hall (Cyathocr. intermedius). Geol. Rep. 

 Iowa, vol. i. pt. ii. p. 627, pi. 18, fig. 10. Keokuk litnest. Subcarb. War- 

 saw, 111. 



1861. Pot. (Parisocr.) nereus Hall. 15th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab., p. 121. Hamilton Gr. 



Devonian. Ontario Co., New York. 



1869. Pot. (Parisocr.) perplexus Meek & Worthen. Type of this group (Pote- 

 riocr.tj) perplexus). Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci Phila., p. 138. Geol. Rep. 111., 

 vol. v. p. 405, pi. 2, fig. 12. Lower Burl, limest. Subcarb. Burlington, 

 Iowa. 



1821. Pot. (Par.isocr.(l)) quinquangularis Miller (Cyathocr. quinquangularis). 

 A History of the Crinoidea, p. 92, with figures. Poteriucriniis Austin, 1843 

 Ann. and Mag. Nat Hist., vol. 10, p. 108, and vol. 11, p. 196. Rec. and 

 Foss. Crin., pi. 10, figs. 2 a-e. Subcarb. England and Ireland. 



1843. Pot. (Parisocr.) radiatus Austin. Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., vol. 10, p. 

 108, and vol. 11, p. 196. Rec. and Foss. Crin., p. 79, pi. 10, figs. 1 a, b. 

 Subcarb. Ireland, England, and Belgium. 



1862. Pot. (Parisocr,) salignoideus White. Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., p. 10. 



Upper Burl, limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1861. Pot. (Parisocr.) tenuibrachiatus Meek <fc Worthen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Hist. 

 Phila., p. 138. Geol. Rep. 111., vol. iii. p. 485, pi. 16, fig. 1. Upper Burl, 

 limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 



D. PACHYLOCRINUS W. & Spr. 

 {nra)(y\h thick, clumsy, xpTvova lily.) 



Name given to designate the comparatively short (for Poterio- 

 crinns), unusually stout aspect of the body. Calyx depressed ; 

 underbasals forming a concavity, and not extending beyond it ; 

 radials and brachials as in Scaphiocrinus, with straight hinge 

 lines and gaping sutures ; brachials generally compound. Arms 

 short, and placed closely side by side, as in Zeacrinus, also dicho- 

 tomizing in a very similar manner, but the arm joints are more 

 cuneiform and angular on the exterior. Column round or ob- 

 tusely pentagonal. Pachylocrinus is a kind of transition form 

 toward Zeacrinus and Coeliocrinas, with which it agrees in the 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



short and infolding arms and in the concavity of its basal portions; 

 but it differs from both in the construction of the ventral sac, 

 which in this group is almost cylindrical, with a tendency toward 

 a balloon shape. 



*1873. Poteriocrinus (Pachylocrinus) arboreus Worthen (Zeacrinus arboreus). 

 Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. p. 534, pi. 20, fig. 5. St. Louis limest. Subcarb. 

 Huntsville, Ala. 



*1869. Pot. (Pachylocr.) asper Meek & Worthen. (Zeacr. asper). Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 150 ; Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. p. 430, pi. 1, fig. 7. Burl, 

 limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 



1870. Pot. (Pachylocr.) concinnus Meek & Worthen. (Pot. (Zeacr.) concinnus.) 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 26; Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. p. 490, pi. 14, 

 fig. 3. Keokuk limest. Subcarb. Crawfordsville, Ind. 



1843. (?) Pot. (Pachylocr.) latifrons Austin. Rec. and Foss. Crin., p. 82, pi. 10, 

 fig. 4. Subcarb. England (closely resembling Zeacrinus). 



1869. Pot. (Pachylocr.) liliiformis Meek & Worthen. Described June, 1861, un- 

 der Pot. carinatus M. & W. (not Scaphiocr. carinatus Hull, February, 

 1861), Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 139; Scaphiocr. carinatus M. & W., 



1868, Geol. Rep. 111., vol. iii. p 486, pi. 17, fig. 1; Scaphiocr. liliiformis, 



1869, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 138. Upper Burl, limest. Subcarb. 

 Burlington, Iowa. 



*1864. Pot. (Pachylocr.) merope Hall. (Zeacr. merope.) 17th Rep. N. Y. St. 



Cab., p. 60; Geol. Rep. Ohio, Pal , vol. ii. p. 178, pi. 12, fig. 18. Waverly 



Gr. Subcarb. Richfield, Ohio. 

 *1864. Pot. (Pachylocr.) paternus Hall. (Zeacr. paternus.) 17th Rep. N. T. 



St. Cab., p. 59 ; Geol. Rep. Ohio, Pal., vol. ii. p. 177, pi. 12, fig. 17. Waverly 



Gr. Subcarb. Richfield, Ohio. 

 *1862. Pot. (Pachylocr.) perangulatus White. (Zeacr. perangulatus.) Proc. 



Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. ix. p. 11. Upper Burl, limest. Subcarb. Bur- 

 lington, Iowa. 

 *1860. Pot. (Pachylocr.) planobrachiatus Meek & Worthen. (Zeacr. planobra- 



chiatus.) Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 391; Geol. Rep. 111., vol. ii. p. 



240, pi. 18, fig. 5. Keokuk limest. Subcarb. Monroe Co., 111. 

 *1879. Pot. (Pachylocr.) subaequalis Wachsm. & Springer Type of the group. 

 Described by Hall, 1861, as Scaphiocr. aqualis (not Pot. (Scaphiocr.) aqualis 



Hall, 1859). Desc. New'Pal. Crin., p. 8 ; Bost. Jour. Nat. Hist., p. 316 ; 



Meek & Worthen, 1873, Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. pi. 15, fig. 6. Keokuk limest. 



Subcarb. Crawfordsville, Ind. 



E. SCYTALOCRINUS W. <!k Spr. 

 (eKvraXy a staff or club ; xpivov a lily.) 



General form of body, including arms, very slender and almost 

 cylindrical. Calyx obconical or bell shaped. Underbasals well 

 developed and bent upward; radials and brachials of nearly the 

 same form, with straight hinge line occupying the entire width of 

 the plates; brachials either single or compound, and supporting 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



on each side an arm which remains simple throughout; the an- 

 terior ray sometimes has but one arm. Arms long, composed of 

 quadrangular or slightly cuneiform joints ; pinnulse of moderate 

 size. Column round or obtusely pentagonal. 



a. Species with a Single Brachial. 



*1875. Poteriocrinus (Scytalocrinus) abnormis Worthen. (Scaphiocr. abnormis.) 



Geol. Rep. 111., vol. vi. p. 519, pi. 31, fig. 6. St. Louis limest- Subcarb. 



Monroe Co., 111. 

 1873. Pot. (Scytalocr.) Bisselli Worthen. Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. p. 546, pi. 21, 



fig. 4. Chester limest. Subcarb. Chester, 111. 

 1843. Pot. (Scytalocr.) dactyloides Austin. Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., vol. x., 



p. 108; vol. xi. p. 197; Rec. and Foss. Crin., p. 86, pi. 10, fig. 7, and pi. 



11, figs. 1 a, b. Subcarb. Ireland. 

 *1860. Pot. (Scytalocr.) dactylus Hall. (Graphiocr. dactylus.) Supp. Geol. 



Rep. Iowa, p. 80. St. Louis limest. Subcarb. Missouri and Illinois. 

 I860. Pot. (Scytalocr.) decadactylus Meek & Worthen. (Not Cyathocrinus. 



= Poteriocr. decadactylus Lyon & Cass. = Scaphiocr. Coreyi Worthen. 



= Pot. (Scytalocr.) grandis Wachsm. & Spr ) Trans. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 



p. 394; Geol. Rep. 111., vol. ii. p. 338, pi. 17, fig. 6. Keokuk limest. Sub- 

 carb. Illinois. 

 1858. Pot. (Scytalocr.) decabrachiatus Hall. Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i. pi. 2, p. 



679, p. 25, fig. 1. Chester limest. Subcarb. Kaskaskia, 111. 

 Syn. Scaphiocr. longidactyhis McChesney, Dec. 1S59, New Pal. Foss., p. 7; 



Trans. Chicago Acad. Sci., 1867, vol. i. pt. i. p. 4, pi. 4, fig. 4. 

 1865. Pot. (Scytalocr.) Indianensis Meek & Worthen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phil., p. 155; Geol. Rep. 111., vol. iii. p. 515, pi. 20, fig. 4. Keokuk 



limest. Subcarb. Crawfordsville, Ind. 



This species, if not based upon an abnormal specimen of P. ro- 

 bustus Hall, differs from all the others in this section in having 

 two brachials, and in having an additional arm in the posterior 

 rays. 



*1869. Pot. (Scytalocr.) macrodactylus Meek & Worthen. (Scaphiocr. macro- 

 dactylus.) Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci Phil., p. 140; Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. 

 p. 415, pi. 2, fig. 9. Upper and Lower Burl, limest. Subcarb. Burlington, 

 Iowa. 



*1858. Pot. (Scytalocr.) maniformis Hall. (Zeacrinus maniformis.) Geol. Rep. 

 Iowa, vol. i. pt. ii. p. 682, pi 25, fig. 8. Chester limest. Subcarb. Illi- 

 nois. Kentucky and Tennessee. 



This species shades into several genera, and cannot be satis- 

 factorily brought under any of them. It agrees with Graphiocri- 

 nus, except in the anal area; the arm joints are like those of 

 Zeacrinus, but the arms are simple instead of bifurcating ; it 

 agrees with Eupachycrinus in the form of the calyx and in the 

 anal area. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



1861. Pot- (Scytalocr. ) robustus Hall. Descr. New Pal. Crin., p. 7. Bost. Jour. 



Nat. Hist., p. 315. Keokuk liuiest. Subcarb. Crawfordsville, Ind. 

 Sy?i. Poteriocr. Horeyi\Yorthen. Geol. Rep. III., vol. vi. p. 516, pi. 29, fig. fi. 



1843. Pot. (Scytalocr.) rostratus Austin. Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 



vol. x. p. 108; vol. xi. p. 196; Rec. and Foss. Crin., p. 75, pi. 9, figs. 2 a-f. 



Mountain limest. Subcarb. England, Ireland. 

 1879. Pot. (Scytalocr.) Wetherbeyi Miller. Cincinnati Soc. Nat. Hist. (April 



number), p. 6, pi. 8, figs. 1, 1 a, b. Chester limest. Subcarb. Kentucky. 



b. Species with a Compound Brachial. 



1867. Pot. (Scytalocr.) bijugus Trautschold. Bull. Soc. Natur. de Moscou, p. 



14, pi. 4, fig. 1-3. 1879. Kalkbriiche von Mjatschkowa, p. 114, pi. 14, fig. 



3. Upper Subcarb. Moscow, Russia. 

 *1879. Pot. (Scytalocr.) grandis Wachsm. & Spr. Described as Poteriocr. Coreyi 



Worthen, 1875. Geol. Rep. 111., vol. vi. p. 516, pi. 29, figs. 2, 3 (not 



Pot. (Scapkiocr.) Coreyi M. & W. 1869). Keokuk limest. Subcarb. 



Crawfordsville, Ind. 

 *1867. (?)Pot. (Scytalocr.) originarius Trautschold. Bull. Soc. Nat. de Moscou, 



p. 2, pi. 1, fig. 1. Kalkbriiche bei Mjatschkowa, p. 110, pi. 14, fig. 1. 



Upper Subcarb. Near Moscow, Russia. 



We cannot believe that this species possesses only six arms as 

 described by its author, as this would be too great a departure 

 from the arm structure of Crinoids generally. It may possibly 

 have had nine arms, with a single one in the anterior ray, but 

 more probably ten. Thus far but a single specimen has been dis- 

 covered, and in this only the right posterior ray is perfectly 

 visible, which had two arms; the two adjoining rays are partly 

 hidden from view, while the remaining two are entirely imbedded 

 in the matrix. There are traces of but five arms in the slab. We 

 judge from the photograph, PI. 14, fig. 1, that the arrangement of 

 the plates in the calyx has been somewhat disturbed, and this 

 explains the fact that in the diagram, p. 110, the basals (subradials 

 of Trautschold) and radials are incorrectly represented. It may, 

 however, be possible that the original, like a specimen of P. bijugus 

 in our possession, for which we are indebted to the kindness of 

 Prof. Trautschold, is abnormal, and that some of the basals (sub- 

 radials) are anchylosed with the adjoining radials, as in our 

 specimen. Until better material is found we must consider P. 

 originarius as a large and abnormal example of P. bijugus. 



*1879. Pot. (Scytalocr.) urna Trautschold. (Phialocr. urna). Steinbriiche von 

 Mjatschkowa, p. 123, pi. 15, fig. 5. Upper Subcarb. Near Moscow, Russia. 

 (Compare with our remarks on Phialocr hius.) 



1875. Pot. (Scytalocr.) Van Hornei Worthen. Geol. Rep. 111., vol. vi. p. 517, 

 pi. 31, figs. 2, 3. St. Louis limest. Subcarb. St. Louis, Mo. 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



F. DECADOCRINUS W. & Spr. 

 (Jixac number of ten ; xp~vov a lily.) 



Arms always ten in number. Calyx depressed. Shallow bowl 

 or saucer-shaped. Underbasals small, frequently hidden from 

 view in the concave base. Form of radials and brachials as in the 

 preceding group, the latter plates simple or compound. Arms 

 composed of arigular wedge-form joints, zigzag, with the longer 

 sides alternating and projecting so as to support short rounded 

 pinnule, which have the appearance of armlets. Column more or 

 less pentangular. 



a. Species with a Single Brachial. 



*1865. Poteriocrinus (Decadocrinus) Bayensis Meek & Worthen. (Scaphiocr. 



Bayensis.) Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 157; Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. p. 



550, pi, 20, fig. 2. Chester liraest. Subcarb. Illinois. 

 *1S70. Pot. (Decadocr.) depressus Meek & Worthen. (Scaphiocr. depressus.) 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 27 ; Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. pi. 14, fig. 8. 



Keokuk limest. Subcarb Crawfordsville, Ind. 

 *1869. Pot. (Decadocr.) fiscellus Meek & Worthen. (Scaphiocr. fiscellus.) 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sei. Phil., p. 141; Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. p. 423, pi. 1, 



fig. 3. Lower Burl, limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 

 *1861. Pot. (Decadocr.) Halli Hull. (Scaphiocr. Halli.) Desc. New Pal. Crin., 



p. 7; Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 308. Upper Burl, limest. Subcarb. Bur- 

 lington, Iowa. 

 *1864. Pot. (Decadocr.) lyriope Hall. (Scaphiocr. lyriope.) 17th Rep. N. Y. 



St. Cab., p. 58; Geol. Surv. Ohio, Pal., vol. ii. p. 175, pi. 12, fig. 10. Wa- 



verly Gr. Subcarb. Richfield, Ohio. 

 1864. Pot. (Decadocr.) pleias Hall. 17th Rep. N. Y. St. Col., p. 141; Geol. Surv. 



Ohio, Pal., vol. ii. p. 173. Waverly Gr. Subcarb. Richfield, Ohio. 

 *1869. Por. (Decadocr.) Stimpsoni Lyon. (Zeacr. Stimpsoni.) Trans. Am. 



Philos. Soc, Phil., p. 465, pi. 27, fig. m, m 1. Subcarb. Kentucky. 



b. Species with More than one Brachial. 



*1864. Pot. (Decadocr.) aegina Hall. (Saphiocr. eegina.) 17th Rep. N/ Y. St. 



Cab., p. 57; Geol. Rep. Ohio, Pal., ii. p. 174, pi. 12, figs. 11, 12. Waverly 



Gr. Subcarb. Richfield, Ohio. 

 1861. Pot. (Decadocr.) diffusus Hall. 15th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab., p. 121. Hamil- 

 ton Gr. Devonian. Ontario Co., New York. 

 *1S63. Pot. (Decadocr.) gracilior F. Roemer. (Cyathocr. gracilior.) Dunker's 



Palaeontologr., vol. ix. p. 149, pi. 29, fig. 1 ; pi. 25, figs. 8, 10. Dachschiefer. 



Grauwacke. Bundenbach, Germany. 

 *1869. Pot. (Decadocr.) juvenis Meek & Worthen. (Scaphiocr. juvenis.) Proc. 



Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 146 ; Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v., p. 417, pi. 2, fig. 8. 



Lower Burl, limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1861. Pot. (Decadocr.) nycteus Hall. 15th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab., p. 120. Hamilton 



Gr. Devonian. Ontario Co., N. Y. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 343 



*1861. Pot. (Decadocr.) scalaris Meek & Worthen. Type of this group (Scaphiocr. 



scalaris). Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 145. Geol. Rep. III., vol. v. p. 



421, pi. 2, fig. 10. Upper Burl, limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 

 *1864. Pot. (Decadoc.) subtortuosus Hall. (Scaphiocr. subtortuosus.) 17th Rep. 



N. Y. St. Cab., p. 59. Geol. Surv. Ohio, Pal., vol. ii. p. 177, pi. 12, figs. 



15, 16. Waverly Gr. Subcarb. Richfield, Ohio. 



G. Species of Poteriocrinus, imperfectly known. 

 1858. Poteriocr. calyculus Hall. Geol. .Rep. Iowa, vol. i. pL 2, p. 553, pi. 9, figs. 



6 a, (5 b. Lower Burl, limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1836. Poteriocr. conicus Phillips. Geol. Yorksh., ii. pi. 4, fig. 3. Portlock's Geol. 



Rep., pi. 16, fig. 12. De Koninck, 1842, Animaux Foss., p. 47, pi. F, fig. 3; 



Milne Edwards ap. Lamark, p. 664; Austin, 1843, Rec. and Foss. Crin., 



p. 82, pi. 10, figs. 3 a, b, c. Subcarb. England, Ireland, and Belgium. 

 1853. Poteriocr. conoideus De Koninck & Lehon. Recherch. Crin. Belg., p. 93, pi. 



1, figs. 8 a, b. Subcarb. Vise, Belgium. 

 1869. (?)Poteriocr. cylindricus Lyon. (Not Hall=Homocr. cylindricus). Trans. 



Am. Philos. Soc, Philad., vol. xiii. p. 458, pi. 27, fig. 1. Encrinal limest. 



Subcarb. Falls of the Ohio. (Imperfect specimen.) 

 1842. Poteriocr. gracilis McCoy. (Not Pot. gracilis Hal! = Dendocr. gracilis.) 



Carb. Foss. Ireland, p. 178, pi. 25, figs. 11-14. Subcarb. Ireland. 

 1873. Poteriocr. Hardinensis Worthen. Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. p. 533, pi. 20, fig. 



10. St. Louis limest. Subcarb. Hardin Co. , 111. 

 1836. Poteriocr. impressus Phillips. Geol. Yorksh., ii. p. 205, pi. iv. fig. 1 ; Austin, 



1843, Rec. and Foss. Crin., pi. 10, fig. 6. (Not Pot. impressus Richter & 



Unger. Geognost. Rossica, 1860, pi. 31, fig. 46.) Subcarb. England. 

 1861. Poteriocr. indentus Hall. 15th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab., p. 122. Hamilton Gr. 



Devonian. Ontario Co., N. Y. 

 *1861. Poteriocr. laeviculus Lyon. (Cyathocr. laeviculus.) Proc. Acad. Nat. 



Sci. Phil., p. 409. Encrinal limest. Subcarb. Jefferson Co., Ky. 

 1875. Poteriocr. Lasallensis Worthen. Geol. Rep. 111., vol. vi. p. 526, pi. 32, fig. 



3. Upper Coal Measures. Lasalle, III. 

 1861. Poteriocr. lepidus Hall. Desc. New Pal. Crin., p. 6 ; Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist. 



p. 304. Lower Burl, limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1873. Poteriocr. macoupiensis Worthen. Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. p. 561, pi. 24, fig. 



3. Coal Measures, 111. 

 1850. Poteriocr. minutus F. A. Roemer. Beitr. zur Kenntn. d. Harzgeb. , p. 47, 



pi. 8, figs. 1 a-d. Posidonien Schiefer. Devonian. Lauthenthal. Germany. 

 1872. Poteriocr. montanaensis Meek. Hayden's Rep. U. S. Geol. Surv. Terr. 



Lower Carbon. Montana Territory. 

 1861. Poteriocr. nassa Hall. 15th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab., p. 120. Hamilton Gr. 



Devonian. Canandaigua, N. Y. 

 1861. Poteriocr. nereus Hall. 15th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab., p. 121. Hamilton Gr. 



Devonian. Ontario Co., N. Y. 

 1861. Poteriocr. nodobrachiatus Hall. Desc. New Pal. Crin., p. 8; Bost. Journ. 



Nat. Hist., p. 614. Keokuk limest. Subcarb. Crawfordsville, Ind. 

 1858. (?)Poteriocr. pachydactylus Miiller. Monatsber. Berl. Acad., p. 192. De- 

 vonian. Germany. (No means of comparison.) 

 1858. (?)Poteriocr. patulus Miiller. Monatsber. Berl. Acad. Devonian. Ger- 

 many. (No means of comparison.) 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



1843. Poteriocr. pentagonus Austin. (Cladocr. pentagonus.) Ann. & Mag. Nat. 



Hist., vol. ii. p. 198 ; Rec. and Foss. Crin., p. 86, pi. 11. figs. 2 a-f. Sub- 



carb. England. 

 1858. Poteriocr. rugosus Shumard. Trans. St. Louis Acad. Sci. Coal Measures. 



(No means of comparison. ) 

 1869. Poteriocr. simplex Lyon. (Not Pot. (Scaphiocr.) simplex Hall =Graphiocr. 



simplex.) Trans. Am. Philos. Soc. Phil., p. 458, pi. 26, fig. f. Upper 



Helderberg, Devonian. Falls of the Ohio. 

 1821. Poteriocr. tenuis Miller. Hist. Crin., p. 71; Sehlotheim, 1822; Nachtr. 



Petrefactenk., vol. ii. pi. 25, fig. 2; Austin, 1843, Rec. and Foss. Crin., p. 



83, pi. 10, figs. 5 a, b. Mountain limest. Subcarb. England and Ireland. 

 *1861. Poteriocr. Wortheni Lyon. (Cyathor. Wortheni.) Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phil., p. 410. Encrinal limest. Devon. Jefferson Co., Ky. 



15. GRAPHIOCRINUS De Koninck & Lehon. 



1853. Graphiocrinus De Kon. & Leh. Crin. Carb. Belg., p. 115. 



1858. Scaphiocrinus (in part) Hall. Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i. pt. 2, p. 549. 



1879. Phialocrinus(?) Trautschold. Kalkbrucke Mjatch., p. 122. 



A. Typical form. 



In general aspect Graphiocrinus closeh' agrees with a form of 

 Poteriocrinus for which we have proposed the name Scytalocrinus, 

 from which, however, it differs clearly in the anal area, which in 

 Graphiocrinus has but a single plate, while in the other it has 

 three. De Koninck, in his generic description, mentions only two 

 orders of plates as constituting the calyx, in which he is evidently 

 mistaken. We have before us several species from the Burlington 

 limestone, which have heretofore been referred by their authors to 

 Scaphiocrinus, but which agree in the clearest manner with the 

 typical Graphiocrinus encrinoides. They all, like the typical spe- 

 cies, have ten arms except an undescribed species, which we 

 think belongs to this type, and which has only five constructed 

 of simple joints with parallel sutures; they have one large bra- 

 chial and a single anal plate, extending beyond the general limit 

 of the calyx; and whenever the column is attached there is no 

 trace of underbasals, yet these plates are found in every one of 

 those species when seen with the column removed. We can no 

 longer doubt, from the evidence of our specimens, that the under- 

 basals, as suggested by Hall and Meek & Worthen, are also 

 present in the Belgian species, but hidden from view by the 

 column, and that all the above-mentioned species belong to the 

 same genus. We therefore propose a revision of the generic 

 formula, protesting, however, against the assertion of the authors 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



last named, that the entire genus Scaphiocrinus as formulated by 

 Hall, is identical with Graphiocrinus. Scaphiocrinus simplex, 

 and a few other species like it with a single anal plate, are un- 

 doubtedly so, but all others, and by far the majority of species 

 described under Scaphiocrinus, are generically distinct from 

 Graphiocrinus, and must be classed with Poteriocrinus. 



Closely related to Graphiocrinus are Bursacrinus, Meek & 

 Worthen, and Phialocrinus, Trautschold. We can perceive slight 

 structural differences by which the two might be distinguished 

 from the first, but it can only be a subgeneric division, and it is 

 somewhat questionable whether even this can be maintained as to 

 Phialocrinus. 



Revised Generic Diagnosis General form elongate, almost 



cylindrical. Calyx small, rather shallow, with bilateral symmetry. 

 Underbasals five, minute, rarely extending beyond the column. 

 Basals small; four at least, frequently all five of them, equal. 

 The former is the case in all species in which the anal plate is 

 disconnected from the basals, the latter when it rests directly upon 

 one of them, in which case the posterior basal is considerably 

 higher and truncate above. Radials large, their upper articulating 

 margins straight. Brachials one by five, as large or larger than 

 the radials, aud of a similar form, but with the lower margin 

 straight ; sutures gaping, articulating facet occupjing the entire 

 width of the plate. 



There are generally two arms to each brachial, or ten to the 

 individual, which remain simple throughout; but in the above men- 

 tioned species the upper side of the brachials is truncate, and the 

 Crinoid has only five arms. The arms are long and heavy, com- 

 posed of short joints with almost parallel sutures. Pinnulae long. 



A single rather small anal plate is placed half-way between the 

 radials and brachials, either resting on the posterior basal or 

 separated from it, but in either case extending above the plane of 

 the radials. Yentral sac, so far as observed, strong, composed 

 of elongate hexagonal plates. Column round or obtusely pen- 

 tagonal. 



Geological position, etc. Found so far only in the Subcarboni- 

 ferous both of Europe and America. We recognize the following 

 species: 



23 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



*1861. ? Graphiocrinus carbonarius Meek & Worthen. (Scaphiocr. carbonarius.) 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 140; Geo!. Rep. 111., vol. v. p. 562, pi. 24, 

 fig. 2. Coal Measures. Springfield, 111. 



1853. Graphiocr. encrinoides De Koninck & Lehon. Type of the genus. Recherch. 

 Crin. Belg., p. 117, pi. 4, fig. 15, 15 a, b. Mountain limest. Subcarb. Tour- 

 nay, Belg., and Bristol, Eng. 



*1873. Graphiocr. McAdamsi Worthen. (Scaphiocr. McAdamsi.) Geol. Rep. 111., 

 vol. v. p. 495, pi. 15, fig. 2. Keokuk limest. Subcarb. Jersey Co., 111. 



*1869. Graphiocr. rudis Meek & Worthen. (Scaphiocr. rudis.) Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phil., p. 139; Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. p. 412, pi. 1, fig. 1. Upper Bur- 

 lington limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 



*1858- Graphiocr. simplex Hall. (Scaphiocr. simplex.) Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. 

 i. pt. ii. p. 551, pi. 9, Fig. 10. Burlington limest. Subcarb. Burlington, 

 Iowa. 



*1861. Graphiocr. spinobrachiatus Hall. (Scaphiocr. spinobrachiatus.) New 

 Pal. Crin., p. 8; Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 306. Lower Burlington limest. 

 Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 



*1869. Graphiocr. striatus Meek & Worthen. (Scaphiocr. striatus.) Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 142; Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. pi. 2, fig. 11. Lower Bur- 

 lington limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 



*1861. Graphiocr. tortuosus Hall. (Scaphiocr. tortuosus.) Desc. New Pal. Crin., 

 p. 7; Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 309. Upper and Lower Burlington limest. 

 Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 



*1861. Graphiocr. Wachsmuthi Meek & Worthen. (Scaphiocr. Wachsmuthi.) 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 141 ; Geol. Rep. 111., vol. iii., p. 488, pi. 16, 

 fig. 7, a, b. Lower Burl, limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 



B. Subgenus BURSACRINUS Meek & Worthen. 



1861. Bursacrinus M. & W. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 136. 



1862. Bursacrinus White. Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. ix. p. 11. 

 1868. Bursacrinus M. & W. Geol. Rep. 111., vol. iii. p. 478. 



Body rapidly spreading to the top of the first division of the 

 arms. Calyx, in the known species, small and turbinate, closely 

 agreeing with Graphiocrinus in its general construction, but the 

 basals comparatively larger, the posterior one much higher and 

 truncated. Radials and brachials smaller, and the single anal 

 plate, which here also reaches beyond the plane of the radials, ex- 

 tends at least in the typical species as far as to the lower portion 

 of the first arm plates. The best distinction, however, and that 

 by which Bursacrinus is easily recognized, is found in the arms, 

 which are branching instead of simple, broad, flat, and in contact 

 laterally. Between the first bifurcation of the rays on the brachial 

 pieces and the next division above, the arms are very wide, flat, 

 and composed of from six to eight short wedge-form pieces which 

 are squarely truncated on each side. In the division above, the 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



arm pieces are less than half the width of the last, and like all 

 others composed of a single series of joints. 



In the extraordinary width of the lower portion of the arms, 

 the flatness of the arm pieces, and the fact that these lie side by 

 side, abutting laterally, Bursacrinus somewhat resembles Ichthyo- 

 crinus, but tlie arms are comparatively longer and the general 

 construction of the hody otherwise is very distinct. 



Only two species are known ; both are from the Subcarboniferous. 



1861. Bursacrinus Wachsmuthi Meek & Worthen. Type of the subgenus. Proo. 



Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 137; Oeol. Rep. 111., vol. iii. p. 479, pi. 17, fig. 6. 

 Upper Burlington limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 



1862. Bursacrinus confirmatus White. Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. ix. p. 11. 



Lower Burlington limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 



C. Subgenus (?) PHIALOCRINUS Trautschold. 1 (Not Eichwald ) 

 1879. Monogr. Kalkbrucke von Mjatsckkowa, p. 122. 



Prof. Trautschold proposed the above name in a full generic 

 sense for two species of Crinoids from the Upper Subcarboniferous 

 of Russia. The resemblance to Graphiocrinus, as already men- 

 tioned, is so close that we doubt whether the group can be 

 upheld even subgenerically. So far as known, Phialocrinus patens 

 differs from Graphiocrinus, as now revised, only in having two 

 brachial pieces instead of one, and in the underbasals, which here 

 project slightly beyond the column. The latter is unimportant, 

 and a comparison will show that the two brachials combined have 

 exactly the form of the single plate in Graphiocrinus; their 

 division involves no structural change, but merely facilitates arti- 

 culation. Trautschold's first species only can be placed here: 

 his P. urna is certainly a Poteriocrinus, as indicated by its ob- 

 conical form, the large underbasals, and especially by the arrange- 

 ment of its anal plates. 



1879. Graphiocr. (Phialocrinus) patens Trautschold. Monogr. d. Kalkbriiche 

 von Mjatsch. , p. 123, pi 15, fig. 4. Upper Subcarb. Near Moscow, Russia. 



16. WOODOCRINITS De Koninck. 

 1854. Recherch. Crin. Belgique. Supplement, p. 4. 



General form including arms short and robust; calyx depressed, 

 arrangement of the plates in the anal area unsymmetrical. 



Underbasals five ; small, quadrangular, forming a pentagon 



1 Eichwald's genus Phialocrinus (Lethaea Rossica, i. p. 578, pi. 31, fig. 

 27) was not defined, being founded on fragmentary pieces of column. 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



with nearly straight sides, slightly concave in the middle. Basals 

 about of equal size, hexagonal, wider than high. Radials. penta- 

 gonal, wide, and short, broadly truncate above. Brachials one 

 by five, similar in form to the radials, but truncate below instead 

 of above; they support on each upper sloping side an arm which 

 bifurcates on the fourth to the eighth plate above, the branches 

 remaining simple throughout, thus giving four arms to each ray 

 uniformly. 



The ax*ms are rather divergent, heavy, rounded on the outside, 

 gently tapering to the tips and terminating in a sharp point. 

 Arm pieces extremely short, their sutures parallel. Pinnulae long 

 and numerous, directed inward, composed of ten to twelve small 

 joints. 



The anal area is remarkable for its great number of pieces, 

 being composed longitudinally of several rows of plates, alter- 

 nately arranged. The lower and largest plate rests between two 

 basals, one of the upper sides against the right posterior ra- 

 dial, the other against the first anal of the adjoining row. The 

 second anal plate rests upon a basal, and abuts laterally against 

 the left posterior radial. The third anal is placed upon the first, 

 toward the right side of the second, and rests partly against the 

 right posterior radial. The anal area is elliptic in outline, com- 

 posed of twelve or more plates, only three of which are on a level 

 with the radials. The form of the ventral sac is unknown, but 

 from all appearances it is somewhat balloon-shaped, and does not 

 extend to the top of the arms. 



Column rather slender, composed of alternate wider and nar- 

 rower joints, their diameter increasing from the root up, being 

 largest next to the calyx ; central perforation round. 



The genus is from the Subcarboniferous, and the only known 

 species is : 



1854. Woodocrinus macro dactylus De Koninck. Recherch. Crin. Belg. Supple- 

 ment, p. 6, pi. 8, figs. 1 a-d. Upper part of Subcarb. Richmond, England. 



17. ZEACRINUS Troost. 



1850. Zeacrinus Troost. Subgenus of Poteriocrinus. Cat. Crin. Tenn., p. 



62 (without description.) 

 1858. Zeacrinus Hall. Subgenus of Poteriocrinus. Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. 



i. pi. 2, p. 544. 




J 879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 349 



1860. Zeacrinus Meek & Worthen. Subgenus of Poteriocrinus. Geol. Rep. 

 111., vol. ii. p. 186. (Not Zeacrinus Schultze. Monog. Ecbin. 

 Eifel Kalk., p. 38.) 



General form of body with arms closed, terete or subcylindrical, 

 often contracted near the arm bases and spreading above ; Calyx 

 more or less depressed, low cup or basin-shaped, rarely turbinate, 

 with the basal portion sunken in and forming a deep concavity. 

 Arrangement of plates slightly unsymmetrical. 



Underbasals five (abnormally six), small, generally hidden in 

 the central concavity, and covered by the column. Basals five, 

 sometimes nearly equal, but more frequently showing a tendency 

 to irregularity on the posterior side. Radials five, pentagonal, 

 the upper side truncate, with a single brachial plate in each of the 

 four lateral ra} r s; the anterior ray, however, as a rule has one, 

 two, to six or more additional quadrangular brachials, and a bifur- 

 cating plate above, resembling in outline the single brachial of the 

 other rays. The latter plate is wide, rather short, and of the form 

 of the radials, but truncate below, and joining the entire upper 

 margin of the radial. 



Arms comparatively short, bifurcating, scarcely rounded on the 

 exterior, rarely angular; the bifurcating plates comparatively 

 larger and sometimes nodose. Ramifications only occur on the 

 two outer arms of the rays, and these arms have straight outer 

 margins throughout their length. The branches are given off at 

 regular intervals toward the inner side of the ray, and remain 

 single throughout. The arms are all of uniform thickness, and 

 their sides are sharply defined, and when closed they join so 

 neatly with each other that it appears as if they formed a solid 

 bod} r . Arm-joints much wider than long, with nearly parallel 

 sutures. Pinnulas short and slende.r, composed of six or more 

 angular joints directed to the interior of the crinoid, not given off 

 laterally. Arm furrows apparently covered by the infolding of 

 the pinnulse, not by alternating plates. 



There are from five to seven anal plates, alternately arranged in 

 two rows, the lower plate resting with one side against the sloping 

 right side of the posterior basal, the other against the right pos- 

 terior radial, in some species almost touching the underbasals. 

 The arrangement of the succeeding plates is very similar to that 

 of Woodocrinus, except that the portion of the anal area above 

 the line of the radials has a sharp triangular outline instead of 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



elliptic as in that genus. The whole protrudes and is almost even 

 with the surface of the adjoining arms, which curve around it or 

 rest upon its flanks. The ventral sac is broadly balloon-shaped, 

 and extends, so far as observed, to about one-half the height of the 

 arm. It is composed of a great number of small plates, is sub- 

 pyramidal, sharply pointed at its upper end. It consists of five 

 diverging spheromeres, the radial portions deeply depressed, the 

 interradial extending outward in sharp edges, the edge at the 

 posterior side connecting with the anal area, those of the other 

 sides abruptly turned near the top of the calyx toward the poste- 

 rior of the specimen, where the sac evidently connects with the 

 main bod}', thus resembling a balloon. The sharp edges are 

 wedged in for a short distance between the outer arms of two dif- 

 ferent rays, and the arms themselves with their pinnube rest 

 within the radial excavations almost as in E ucalyptocrinus. The 

 radial spaces are subdivided near their base by a short ridge, 

 underneath which, and apparently independent of the sac, there is 

 seen in every ray a little short tube representing the ambulacra] 

 passages. There is no sign of an anal opening, but we have ob- 

 served two rows of respiratory pores along the median line of the 

 radial depressions. 



Column round, sometimes bordered by irregular lateral cirrhi; 

 its diameter small, the central canal minute and apparently round. 



The genus Zeacrinus is evidently closely related to Woodocri- 

 nus, and as we are inclined to believe that the ventral sac, which 

 has not 3*et been discovered in the latter, is most probabty simi- 

 larly constructed, we have felt almost like placing Zeacrinus 

 (which was defined as late as 1858 by Hall), under De Koninck's 

 genus as a subgenus. We have noticed, however, a difference in 

 the construction and habitus of the arms by which we think the 

 two may be satisfactorily distinguished. Those of Woodocrinus, 

 as observed in a large number of specimens, show a strong inclina- 

 tion to separate by being more or less irregularly bent to one side, 

 particularly near the top; while in Zeacrinus they are closely 

 folded up, very much as in Ichthyocrinus, and perfectly straight, 

 with quite a different mode of bifurcation. In the former they 

 are round, very robust, terminating in a sharp point; in the latter 

 almost flat, veiy delicate, and of nearly uniform size throughout. 



The identification of Zeacrinus lias always been attended witli 

 difficult}-, owing to the fact that it had not been sufficiently well 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 351 



defined. The ventral sac, which really presents the best generic 

 characters, and by which it is easily recognized, was altogether 

 unknown, and the difficulty was increased when several species 

 were admitted which belong to other groups, and which were evi 

 dently not intended to be included by the authors of the genus. 

 We have been obliged to throw out all species with long, angular, 

 zigzag arm-joints ; these have also a tubular ventral sac, and we 

 have placed them under some of the varieties of Poteriocrinns, 

 where they really belong. 



Zeacrinus has by most authors been placed under Poteriocrinus 

 as a subgenus, but in this we cannot concur. We look upon it 

 rather as the type of an independent little group of Crinoids, in- 

 cluding several genera, which culminates in Hydreionocrinus and 

 Cceliocrinus, some of the last survivors of the Cyathocrinidae. 



Zeacrinus excavatus Schultze is evidently a Taxocrinus. 



Geological position, etc. The genus is confined to the Subcar- 

 boniferous, ranging through all the divisions of that epoch; and 

 has only been discovered in America. 



We recognize the following species : 



1869. Zeacrinus asper Meek and Worthen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila,, p. 150. 



Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. p. 430, pi. 1, fig. 7. Lower Burlington limest. (not 



Upper Burlington 1. as stated by M. and W.). Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1859. Zeacr. bifurcatus McChesney. New Pal. Foss., p. 10. Trans. Chicago 



Acad., 1867, vol. i. p. 71, pi. 4, fig. 3. Chester limest. Subcarb. Chester, 111. 

 *1862. Zeacr. bursaeformis White. (Poteriocr. bursaeformis.) Proc. Bost. Soc. 



Nat. Hist. , p. 10. Lower Burlington limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1873. Zeacr. compactilis Worthen. Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. p. 536, pi. 21, fig. 5. 



Subcnrb. Cumberland Co., Ky. 

 1858. Zeacr. elegans Hall. Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i. pt. ii. p. 547, pi. 9, figs. 1 and 



2. Upper Burlington limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1847. (1) Zeacr. fiorealis Yandell and Shumard. (Cyathocr. florealis.) Cont. 



Geol. Kentucky, p. 24, pi. 1, fig. 1. Shumard, 1855. Poteriocr. florealis, 



Second Rep. Geol. Missouri, pi. ii. p. 217. Shumard, 1866. Zeacr. florealis. 



Cat. Pal. Foss., pt. i., Echinodermnta, p. 399. Chester limest. Subcarb. 



Grayson Co., Ky. 



We are not certain that this species belongs here, as we have 

 never seen the description. 



1858. Zeacr. intermedius Hall. Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i. pt. ii. p. 681, pi. 25, fig. 

 4. Chester limest. Subcarb. Chester, III. 



1846. Zeacr. magnoliaeformis Owen and Norwood. Type of the genus. (Cya- 

 thocr. magnoliaeformis.) Research Pot. Carb. Rocks, Kentucky. Troost, 

 1850. Zeacr. magnoliceformis. Cat. Crin. Tenn. Hull, 1858, Geol. Rep. 

 Iowa, vol. i. pt. ii. p. 543 and 684, pi. 25, fig. 4. Chester limest. Subcarb. 

 Grayson Co., Ky. 




352 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



1859. Zeacr. ovalis Lyon and Casseday. Am. Jour. Sci. (n. 8.) vol. 29, p. 71. Ches- 



ter limest. Subcarb. Ky. 



1858. Zeacr. ramosus Hall. Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i, pt. ii. p. 548, pi. 9, fig. 3. 

 Upper Burl, limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 



1869. Zeacr. scobina Meek and Worthen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 149; 

 Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. p. 426, pi. 1, fig. 2. Upper Burlington limest. Sub- 

 carb. Burlington, Iowa. 



1869. Zeacr. serratus Meek and Worthen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 151 ; 

 Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. p. 428, pi. 1, fig. 6. Upper Burlington limest. Sub- 

 carb. Burlington, Iowa. 



1860. (Sept.) Zeacr. Troostanus Meek and Worthen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 



p. 390; Geol. Rep. 111., vol. ii. p. 186, pi. 16, fig. 2. Upper and Lower 



Burlington limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 

 (Sy>i.) Zeacr. scoparius Hall (Feb. 1861). Descr. New. Pal. Crin., p. 8; 



Bost. Jour. Nat. Hist., p. 305. 

 (Syn.) Zeacr. sacculus White (1862). Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., p. 12. 

 1858. Zeacr. wortheni Hall. Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i. pt. ii. p. 683. Chester limest. 



Subcarb. Chester, 111. 



(Compare with Z. magnolieeformis.) 



18. HYDREIONOCRINUS De Koninck. 

 1858. Bull. Acad. Royale Belgique, vol. viii. pt. ii. p. 13. 



A. Typical form. 



General form subcylindrical, short, slightly spreading toward 

 the tips of the arras ; with an enormous ventral sac extending be- 

 yond the limits of the arms, and covering them like a roof. 

 Calyx short, rounded below, basal portion sometimes deeply 

 concave. 



Underbasals small, and, according to De Koninck, forming a 

 five-rayed star or shallow cup. In all known American species 

 the underbasals rest within a deep concavit} r , and are scarcely 

 visible beyond the column; but they appear to be considerably 

 larger on the interior of the calyx, sometimes almost exceeding 

 the basals in size. Basals five, three of them of equal size, and 

 hexagonal ; the two in contact witli the anal plates frequently 

 larger. Radials five, large, much wider than high, four of them 

 pentangular, that on the left posterior side quadrangular; the 

 former resting each between two adjacent basals, and the latter 

 abutting upon 011I3' one. Brachials one to the ray, or two in the 

 anterior ray, pentangular, as large or larger than the radials, often 

 produced into long spines ; in species where the anterior ray has 

 an additional brachial, the first is quadrangular, the second is 

 pentangular and bears the spine. The brachials meet laterall}', and 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



support on their upper sloping sides two arms, which subdivide 

 once, or oftener. 



The arms ramify in the same manner as in Zeacrinus, by throw- 

 ing off branches toward the inner side of the ray ; they touch, 

 laterally, and are so arranged that the sutures between the rays, 

 from the basals up, form straight lines, except on the posterior 

 side where the arras curve slightly, following the margin of the 

 anal area. The arms, before they become simple, are composed of 

 short, strongly wedge-shaped joints alternately arranged, which in 

 most species are by degrees turned into a double series of inter- 

 locking plates. Pinnulse very small and short. 



The arrangement of the anal plates is exactly as in Zeacrinus 

 and Woodoci'inus, but the anal area is less protuberant. The ven- 

 tral sac, which is the most remarkable part of this Crinoid, and 

 the best character for distinction, has the form of a mushroom? 

 upright, cylindrical below, abruptly spreading beyond the tips of 

 the arms and forming a rim composed of a row of 6, 11, 15 or 

 more large, spiniferous or nodose plates, spread out horizonally 

 and tending slightly downward. The upper part or roof is low 

 hemispherical, and is formed either by the spiniferous plates them- 

 selves, which are in that case unusually large, or more frequently 

 by a number of irregular plates within the centre. The tube, or 

 cylindrical portion of the sac, is composed of small plates, hori- 

 zontally arranged, and provided at the sutures with one or two 

 rows of respiratory pores. No other aperture has as yet been ob- 

 served, nor has the connection of the tube with the main body 

 been ascertained. 



Column small. 



De Koninck, in his generic description, took the upper portion 

 of the ventral sac to be a regular vault, and thereby distinguished 

 this genus from Poteriocrinus with a large proboscis, while this 

 organ, as he supposed, was absent in Eydreionocrinus. Some of 

 the European species which De Koninck refers to his genus must 

 be considered doubtful until better proof is given that the}' belong 

 here. His H. globularis is, in our opinion, an Eupachycrinus. 



Eydreionocrinus has the closest relations with Zeacrinus, with 

 which it agrees in the construction of the calyx, and in the mode 

 of bifurcation of the arms ; but the enormous size of the ventral 

 sac, its peculiar form and construction, seem to warrant a full 

 generic separation. 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



Geological position, etc. The genus is known only from the 

 uppermost part of the Subcarboniferous and from the Coal meas- 

 ures, and occurs both in Europe and America. 



We recognize the following species: 



*1S70. Hydreionocrinus acanthophorus Meek and Worthen. (Zeacr. Hydreion- 



ocr. acanthophorus.) Proc. Aend. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 28; Geol. Surv. 111., 



vol. v. p. 563, pi. 24, fig. 11. Upper Coal Measures. Illinois and Iowa. 

 *1870. Hydreionocr. armiger Meek and Worthen. (Zeacr. (?) armiger.) Proc. 



Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 27 ; Geol. Rep. III., p. 547, pi. 21, fig. 3. Chester 



limest. Subcarb. Pope Co., 111. 

 *1850. Hydreionocr. depressus Troost. (Zeacr. depressus.) Cat. Pal. Foss. 



Tenn. ; Hall, 1858, Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i. pt. ii. p. 546. Chester limest. 



Subcarb. Kentucky and Alabama. 

 *1860. Hydreionocr. discus Meek and Worthen. (Zeacr. discus.) Proc. Acad. 



Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 390 ; Geol. Rep. 111., vol. II. p. 312, pi. 26, figs. 3 a, b. 



Upper Coal Measures. Illinois. 



(Compare with Hydreionocr. acanthophorus.) 



*1859. Hydreionocr. mucrospinus McChesney. (Zeacr. mucrospinus.) Desc. 



New Pal. Foss. p. 10 ; Trans. Chic. Acad. Sci., 1867, vol. i. p. 7, pi. 4, fig. 7. 



Coal Measures. Illinois. 

 1853. Hydreionocr. woodianus De Koninck. Type of the genus. Bull. Acad. Royale 



Belgique, pt. ii. p. 17, pi. 2, figs. 5, 5 a. Subcarboniferous. Richmond, 



Yorkshire, England. 



Doubtful Species, placed under the genus by De Koninck. Bull. Acad. 

 Royale, Belg., vol. iii. pt. ii. p. 13. 



1853. (?) Hydreionocr. calyx De Koninck and Lehon. (Zeacr. calyx.) Recherch. 

 Crin. Carb. Belg., p. 90, pi. 1, fig. 6 a-d. Lower Carboniferous. England 

 and Belgium. 



1836. (?) Hydreionocr. granulosus Phillips. (Poteriocr. granulosus.) Geol. 

 Yorksh., p. 205, pi. 4, fig. 2; Austin, 1843, Mon. Rec. and Foss. Crin., p. 

 77, pi. 9, figs. 3 a-f. Subcarboniferous. Bolland, England. 



1853. (?) Hydreionocr. McCoyanus De Koninck and Lehon. (Poteriocr. McCoy- 

 anus.) Rech. Crin. Carb. Belg., p. 91, pi. 1, fig. 7. Lower Carboniferous. 

 Vi.e, Belgium. 



1853. (?) Hydreionocr. Phillipsianus De Koninck and Lehon. (Poteriocr. Phil- 

 lipsianus.) Rech. Crin. Terr. Carb. Belg., p. 91, pi. 1, fig. 7. Lower Car- 

 boniferous. Vise, Belgium. 



1858. (?) Hydreionocr. scoticus De Koninck. Bull. Acad. Royale Belg., vol. iii. pt. 

 ii. p. 19, pi. 2, figs. 6, 7. Carboniferous. Glasgow, Scotland. 



B. Subgenus CCELIOCRINUS White. 



18G1. Poteriocrinus Hall (in part;. Bost. Jour. Nat. Hist., p. 300. 

 1863. Ccdiocrinus White. Bost. Jour. Nat. Hist., p. 497. 

 18G9. Cceliocrinus, subgenus of Poteriocrinus, Meek and Worthen. Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 138. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 355 



When Dr. White proposed the genus Cceliocrinus, he had evi- 

 dently overlooked De Koninck's genus Hydreionocrinus, with 

 which it agrees in all essential points except in the form of the 

 ventral sac, which is balloon-shaped in Cceliocrinus, instead of 

 like a mushroom, and except also that in Hydreionocrinus the 

 calyx is comparatively larger and the arms shorter. Whether these 

 differences are of sufficient importance to justify even a suhgeneric 

 division, is to us somewhat doubtful. The two forms are certainly 

 not generically distinct, for they shade into one another so closely 

 that in some species it becomes difficult even to separate them on 

 the above characters. We, for our part, are inclined to recognize 

 in Cceliocrinus, which occurs in the lower Subcarboniferous, the 

 earlier stage of Hydreionocrinus; the latter, which nourished 

 during the later periods of the Carboniferous, both in Europe and 

 America, representing the culmination of the form in maturity 

 and extravagance, as developed in the course of time. Such ex- 

 traordinary development in certain parts of the animal as here 

 in the ventral sac frequently occurs when a genus is about to 

 become extinct, and Hydreionocrinus is, in fact, one of the last 

 survivors of this family. Bearing this in mind, it is of little 

 consequence whether we place the species of this gi-oup under 

 Hydreionocrinus, or subgenerically under Cceliocrinus. 



The relations of this form with Zeacrinus are also very close 

 and interesting, and the question may well be asked whether all 

 three forms ought not to be placed under Woodocrinus, provided 

 this genus possesses an inflated sac, which we consider the most 

 characteristic feature of this little group; especially as they 

 further agree in the shortness of the arms and their peculiar mode 

 of bifurcation. Such a classification would certainly be more 

 natural than to place them under Poteriocrinus, as was done by 

 Hall, and subgenerically by Meek and Worthen. All Poterio- 

 crini have long arms, and the ventral sac is prolonged into a 

 slender tube. The arms in all species of Cceliocrinus are com- 

 posed of strongly wedge-shaped plates, which almost interlock, as 

 they do completely in most species of Hydreionocrinus, while the 

 corresponding joints in Zeacrinus and Woodocrinus are regularly 

 quadrangular, with parallel sutures. 



Geological position, etc. Found only in the lower part of the 

 Subcarboniferous of America. 




356 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [18? 9- 



The following species may be arranged here, though we rather 

 prefer their consolidation with Hydreionocrinus. 



1861. Coeliocrinus dilatatus Hall. (Poteriocr. dilatatus), Descr. New Pal. Crin., 

 p. 6; Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 300. White, 1863, Caliocr. dilatatus, 

 Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 501. Lower Burlington limest. Subcarb. Bur- 

 lington, Iowa. 



1873. Coeliocr. cariniferus Worthen. (Zeacr. cariniferus), Geol. Rep. Illinois, 

 vol. v. p. 535, pi. 20, fig. 4. (?) St. Louis limest. Near Huntsville, Ala. 



* 1869. Coeliocr. lyra Meek and. Worthen. (Zeacr. lyra), Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., p. 152; Geol. Rep. Illinois, vol. v. p. 432, pi. 1, fig. 11. Upper 

 Burlington limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 



1863. Cosliocr. subspinosus White. Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 501. Upper Bur- 

 lington limest. Subcarb. Burlington, Iowa. 



1861. Cosliocr. ventricosus Hall. (Poteriocr. ventricosus), Descr. New Pal. 

 Crin., p. 6; Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 301. White, 1863, Caliocr. ventri- 

 cosus, Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 501. Lower Burlington limest. Subcarb. 

 Burlington, Iowa. 



19. EUPACHYCRINUS Meek and Worthen. 



1855. Eupachycrinus, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 159. 



1866. Geol. Rep. 111., vol. ii., p. 177. 



1867. Cromyocrinus Trautschold. Crin. jiing. Bergkalkes bei Moskau, p. 



19. 

 1879. Cromyocrinus, Monogr. Kalkbriiche von Mjatsclikowa, p. 117. 



Meek and Worthen proposed the name Eupachycrinus, without 

 generic description, for a small group of American Crinoids, which, 

 by their massive, tumid plates, the double series of interlocking 

 plates generally composing the arms, and their general phj-siog- 

 nomy, are well distinguished from all other known genera. The}'- 

 made Lyon's Graphiocrinus quatuor decimbrachialis the type of 

 the genus, including in it Hall's two species Cyathocrinus (?) 

 pentalobus and Scaphiocrinus orbicularis, and have since described 

 several new species. 



In 1867 Prof. Trautschold, not knowing that such a genus had 

 been established, proposed the name Cromyocrinus for two 

 species from the Upper Subcarboniferous of Russia, 1 which in 

 many respects, if not altogether, agree with those upon which 

 Eupachycrinus was founded. The species of both agree in the 

 bowl-shaped, sometimes nearly globular form of the calyx, its 

 comparatively very large size, its large and heavy plates, the 



1 We are under obligations to Dr. Trautschold for some excellent Cri- 

 noids from the Russian beds, and to Prof. Wetherby, of Cincinnati, for the 

 loan of some rare and well-preserved specimens of Eupachycrinus. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



massive and simple arms, and the exceedingly slender column. 

 A comparison, however, of all the species that have been referred 

 to the two genera discloses the peculiar fact, that some of them 

 disagree in certain other characters which we have heretofore, in 

 connection with other groups, and apparently with good reason, 

 considered to be of generic value. Among these we may mention 

 the variation in the size of the proximal or underbasal plates, in 

 the number and arrangement of the anal pieces, and in the form 

 and arrangement of the arm plates ; but to separate them thereby, 

 either under Cromyocrinus or otherwise, has so far proved utterly 

 impossible. It is true that the underbasals in all Russian species 

 referred to Cromyocrinus are exceptionally large, but only so in 

 the adult stage. In the young specimens, as shown by Traut- 

 schold himself, they are so minute as not to extend beyond the 

 column, so that in making the size of these plates a generic char- 

 acter we should be obliged to separate the young and adult. 



There are, moreover, several American species which in all other 

 respects agree with the typical forms of Cromyocrinus, but in 

 which these plates, even in the adult, are exceedingly small. The 

 same difficulty is met with in regard to the anal area. In two 

 species Eupachycrinus Craigii Meek and Worthen, and E. 

 Fayettensis Worthen the anal area is composed of a single plate, 

 instead of three, and this even extends partly beyond the line of 

 the radials. That this is not an abnormity, but a constant 

 character in the species, is proved by a number of specimens. In 

 every other group we should not hesitate to establish a new 

 genus on this character alone ; but in this case we are convinced 

 that it is only of specific importance, since those species agree in 

 all other respects with Meek and Worthen's typical Eupachy- 

 crinus. In one specimen of another species, in our collection, 

 only the larger, lower anal plate is absent, but this may be con- 

 sidered as abnormal, for the adjacent basal and radial plates show 

 a very irregular form. 



Examining the arms, we find them in two of the Russian species 

 of CromyocVinus composed of narrow, transverse, quadrangular 

 plates; in G. ornatus, however, they are of cuneiform pieces which 

 by degrees become interlocking plates-. The same diversity in 

 the structure of the arm plates is found among American species, 

 some interlocking almost from the base of the arm, others only 

 at the tips, while still others are constructed of a single series of 




358 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



transverse plates, with parallel sutures, as in the two species of 

 Gromyocrinus from Russia. We have an example in a specimen 

 from Kentucky, which we owe to the kindness of Prof. Wetherhy, 

 evidently Eupachycrinus formosus (Zeacrinus formosus Worth.), 

 which in every other respect is so closely allied to Eupachycrinus 

 spartarius S. A. Miller (which has two rows of alternating arm- 

 pieces), that the two cannot be separated unless the arms are 

 preserved; while, on the other hand, it is almost identical with 

 Trautschold's Cromyocrinus geminatus. This is sufficient to 

 show the impracticability of subdividing Eupachyocrinus, and we 

 are forced to consider Gromyocrinus as a synonym. 



It is certainly pertinent to inquire how it is possible that the 

 same differences in the structure of these Crinoids are in some 

 cases of generic, and in others only of specific importance. We 

 think the question can be answered without much speculating. 

 In a paper, "Transition Forms in Crinoids," Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., 1878, p. '224, we have endeavored to prove that ex- 

 travagant forms ai*e of short duration ; that many genera, before 

 they become extinct, attain extreme proportions or become extra- 

 ordinarily developed in certain parts of the body. Such was the 

 case with Hydreionocrinus with regard to the ventral sac, which 

 was developed to its farthest extreme iu size and proportions. In 

 Eupachycrinus the opposite extreme is reached, the same organ 

 being reduced to almost nothing, making it almost doubtful 

 whether the genus ought to be placed with the Gyathocrinidce at 

 all; although we cannot, with our present knowledge, separate it 

 from this family. This form was one of its very latest repre- 

 sentatives, which evidently struggled through under great diffi- 

 culties, and which by degrees accommodated itself to the great 

 changes which took place about the close of the Carboniferous 

 Age. All the peculiarities which are expressed in the genus, the 

 differentiations which distinguish the species, point toward and 

 foreshadow Encrinus. We observe this in the form and con- 

 struction of the calyx; in the number, size, and arrangement of 

 the arms; in the mode of articulation, and in the general aspect. 

 The two mainly differ in the absence of anal plates in Encrinus; 

 but here again we find in. the species of Eupachycrinus, to which 

 we alluded above and which are restricted to the Coal Measures, 

 the forerunners of Erisocrinus and Stemmatocrinus of the same 

 horizon, which are the prophetic types, if not congenera, of the 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



Encrinidoe. All this tends to explain the extraordinary modifica- 

 tion of characters that took place within the limits of genera at 

 the close of the Carboniferous Era. 



Generic Diagnosis. Calyx large, saucer or bowl-shaped to sub- 

 globose. Plates heavy, convex to tumid, sometimes ornamented, 

 their arrangement unsymmetrical ; sutures strongly defined. 



Underbasals five, of equal size; generally small and forming a 

 eoncavity; in European species comparatively larger and slightly 

 convex. Basals large, fully as high as wide, bent upwards so that 

 the lower half of the plates stands almost at right angles to the 

 vertical axis, and forms a part of the basal plane, oris involved in 

 the concavity. Three of the basals are equal, pentagonal in out- 

 line; the other two modified to accommodate the anal pieces. 

 Radial s scarcely as large as the basals, much wider than high, all 

 pentagonal, the right posterior plate being, however, generally 

 smaller and of a more irregular form. The upper articulating 

 margin of the plate forms a straight line, perfectly filled by the 

 brachials. Brachials one bj r five, always large, at least twice as 

 wide as high, and frequently extended into a large spine, project- 

 ing laterally. Their outer form is almost quadrangular, although 

 they are usually bifurcating plates. They abut laterally, closing 

 the interradial spaces (except at the anal side) by which they 

 appear as if a part of the cal}'x. 



There are generally two arms to each ray or ten to the in- 

 dividual; sometimes only five, as in E upachycrinus simplex 

 Trautschold. They are strong, scarcely diminishing in size to 

 the extremities, and rounded on the outside. They are variously 

 constructed, either of a single or double series of plates, the 

 former being either short, transverse with straight lines, or cunei- 

 form, becoming by degrees alternately arranged and interlocking. 

 Ainbulacral groove wide and deep; Pinnules short and heavy. 



Anal plates generally three, rarely one; succeeding plates form- 

 ing part of the small ventral tube. The lower anal plate is 

 largest, and sometimes attains, for a plate of this kind, unusual 

 dimensions; it is quadrangular in outline, and rests obliquely 

 between the posterior basal and right radial. The second plate, 

 which is next in size and also large, is placed between the first 

 anal and left radial, and above the basal. The third anal is much 

 swollen, and only the lower half of it is included in the calyx. 

 All succeeding plates, which are alternately arranged, decrease in 




360 PROCEEDINGS OP TITE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



size upward, and form so far as known a small ventral tube, which 

 has been traced to the height of the fourth or fifth arm plate, 

 where it is composed of small, very delicate, hexagonal plates. 

 The anal plates and lower portion of the tube are slightly pro- 

 tuberant, and give to the calyx a somewhat unsymmetrical aspect. 

 In species with a single anal plate in the calyx, which, so far as 

 observed, are altogether confined to the upper Coal measures, the 

 plate is comparatively small, and rests upon the posterior basal 

 and between the adjoining radials. There can be no doubt that 

 this plate is the homologue of the second anal of other species, 

 with which it closely agrees in form and position ; and that the first 

 anai plate is here absent, while the third is included in the ven- 

 tral tube. 



Column round and small. 



The upper margin of the radials is provided with a rather 

 prominent, narrow, articulating process, occupying the full width 

 of the plate, corresponding to a similar process opposite on the 

 succeeding brachial. A slit-like opening occupies the middle of 

 it to nearly one-third of its length, which penetrates the plates and 

 evidently contained the muscular apparatus. A similar structure 

 is observed between the brachial and the first arm plates. Such 

 linear processes were well adapted to facilitate the opening and 

 closing of the arms. We may further state that in all species the 

 lower portions of the brachials are pushed inward and the plates 

 incline outward, owing to the position of the hinge lines which 

 are close to the inner edge of the margin of the radial, and at the 

 outer edge of the brachial ; the outer edge of the margin of the 

 radial is bevelled. By this structure, which gives to the Crinoids 

 of this genus their peculiar subglobose form, the ponderous arms 

 obtained an important support; for when open, the tumid or spin- 

 iferous brachials rested firmly upon the protuberant radials, and 

 this explains fully the office of the brachial spines in this and 

 all similar genera. A similar articulation exists between the 

 brachials and arm plates, and also here the sutures are widely 

 gaping. 



Geological position, etc. The genus is known only from the 

 uppermost part of the Subcarboniferous and the Coal measures, 

 reaching its culmination in the latter. It is found both in Europe 

 and America, from Utali to Central Russia. 






1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



We recognize the following species: 



1875. Eupachycrinus Bassetti Worthen. Geo]. Rep. 111., vol. vi. p. 528, pi. 32, fig. 

 2. Coal measures. Illinois. 



1870. Eupachycr. Boydii Meek & Worthen. Proe. Acad. Nat, Sci. Phila., p. 30. 

 Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. p. 554, pi. 21, fig. 6. Chester litnest. Subcarb. Ches- 

 ter, III. 



1875. Eupachycr. Craigii Worthen. Geol. Rep. 111., vol. vi. p. 527, pi. 32, fig. 1. 



Upper Coal measures. Illinois and Iowa. 

 Syn. Poteriocr. hemisphariais, Shumard. 1858. Trans. St. Louis Acad. Sci., 



vol. i. p. 221 ; also Scaphiorr. (?) hcmi'sphericus Meek, 1872. Final Rep. on 



Nebraska, p. 147, pi. 5, fig. I. Geol. Rep. HI., p. 561, pi. 24, fig. 5. 

 *1S70. Eupachycr. crassus Meek & Worthen (Cyathocr. f?)crassus). Proe. Acad. 



Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 392. Zeacr. {?)crassus, lS6f. Geol. Rep. III., vol. ii. pi. 



26, figs. 2 a, b. Lower Coal measures. Fulton Co., III. 

 1873. Eupachycr. Fayettensis Worthen. Geol. Rep. III., vol. v. p. 565, pi. 24, 



fig. 10. Upper Coal measures. Illinois. 

 *1873. Eupachycr. formosus Worthen (Zeacr. formosus). Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. 



p. 549, pi. 21, fig. 2. Chester limest, Subcarb. Chester, 111. 

 *1867. Eupachycr. geminatus Trautschold (Cromyocr. geminatus). Crin. jiing. 



Bergkalkes, p. 25, pi. 4, fig. 6 (not 7 and 8) ; 1879, Kalkbruche von Mjatsch- 



kowa, p. 120, pi. 14, figs. 5, 6. Upper Subcarboniferous. Near Moscow, 



Russia. 

 *1858. Eupachycr. globularis De Koninck (Hydeionocr. C?)globularis). Bull. 



Acad. Royale Belg., pt. ii. p. 21, pi. 2, figs. 1-4. Carboniferous. Near 



Glasgow, Scotland. 

 *1S61. (l)Eupachycr. orbicularis Hall (Scaphiocr. orbicularis). Bost. Journ. 



Nat. Hist., p. 311. Keokuk limest. Subcarb. Keokuk, Iowa. 

 #1879. Eupachycr. ornatus Trautschold (Cromyocr. ornatus). Kalkbriiche von 



Mjatschkowa, p. 121, pi. 14, figs. 9, 10. Upper Subcarb. Near Moscow, 



Russia. 



Figured in "Crin. jiing. Bergkalk., pi. 4, figs. 7 and 8," under 

 C. geminatus. 



1876. C?) Eupachycr. platybasalis White. Geol. Unita Mount., p. 108. Lower 



Aubrey Gr. Utah. 



This species is imperfectly known, and very likely belongs to 

 Hydreionoerinus. 



1857. Eupachycr. quatuor decimbrachialis Lyon. Type of this genus. (Graphi- 

 ocr. quatuor decimbrachialis) Geol. Rep. Kentucky, vol. iii. p. 477, pi. 1, 

 figs. 2 a, b. Coal measures. Crittenden Co., Kentucky. 

 Syn. Cyathocri.mts (?)pentalobus, Hall, 1858. Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i. pt. ii. p. 

 687, pi. 25, figs. 5 a, b. 



*1861. Eupachycr. Sangamonensis Meek & Worthen. (Cyathocr. (h Sangamo- 

 nensis) Proe. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 392. Geol. Rep. III., vol. ii. p. 310, 

 pl. 26, fig. 1 a, b. Upper Coal measures. Sangamon Co., III. 



This species agrees very well with Eup. globularis, and with 

 Trautsehold's Russian species in the higher and more globose form 

 24 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



of the calyx, as in the large size of the underbasals, which are the 

 only characters upon which a separation under Cromyocrinus 

 might be based ; but in that case what shall be done with Evp. 

 crassus, which has the same form and very small underbasals ? 



*1867. Eupachycr. simplex Trautsohold. (Cromyocr. simplex) Crin. jiing. Berg- 

 kalk, p. 19, pi. 3, figs. 1-4; also 1879. Kalkbriiche von Mjatschkowa, p. 117, 

 pi. 14, figs. 6-8. Citpressocr. nuciformis Golcffuss. Oryctographia b. 

 Fisher, p. 151, pi. 41, figs. 5, 6 ; Fisher, Poteriocr. nuciformis Lethaea 

 Rossica i., p. 588 ; also Quenstadt. Petref. Deutschland, iv. p. 543, pi. 109, 

 fig. 6. Upper Subcarb. Near Moscow, Russia. 



The small specimens which Trautschold has figured, and consid- 

 ered to be the young of Cromyocr. simplex, represent a very dis- 

 tinct species. In a specimen which we recently obtained from 

 Prof. Zittel, the brachials in two raj's are preserved, and show 

 plainly that they are bifurcating plates, while Gr. simplex has 

 but five arms. The specimen was labelled Zeacrinus new sp. We 

 agree with Prof. Zittel that the calyx resembles that genus closely, 

 but we doubt if it has more than ten arms. The length of the 

 brachials and their form point rather to Poteriocrinus (Scytalo- 

 crinus), from which it differs in the shortness of the calyx. It 

 evidently must be arranged with Pot. (Scylalocrinus)? manifor- 

 mis, or as a transition form of Eupachycrinus. 



*1867. Eupachycr. subtumidus Worthen. (Zeacr. suhtumidus). Geol. Rep. 111., 



vol. v. p. 548, pi. 21, fig. 1. Chester limest. Subcarb. Pope Co., 111. 

 1865. Eupachycr. tuberculatus Meek & Worthen. (Erisocr. tuherculatus) Proc. 



Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 150. Geol. Rep. 111., vol. ii. p. 319. Upper Coal 



measures. Illinois and Iowa. 

 *1867. Eupachycr. verrucosus White. (Hydreionocr. (?)verrucosus). Trans. 



Chic. Acad. Sci., p. 117. Upper Coal measures. Western Iowa. 



20. ERISOCRINUS Meek & Worthen. 



18G4. A Crinoid near Encrinus moniliformis. Marcon. Bull. Geol. Soc, 



France. 

 1865, March. Erisocrinus M. & W. Am. Journ. Sci., 2d ser. vol. xxix. 



p. 174. 

 1865, May. Philocrinus M. & W. Ibid, (not De Koninck, 1863). 

 1865, August. Erisocrinus M. & W. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 149. 



A. Typical form. 



Comparing the Crinoidal fauna of our Western States and 

 territories, as we find it toward the close of the Carboniferous, 

 with that of the same geological age in Central Russia, it is sur- 

 prising to find the same generic forms surviving in both countries. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 363 



This has been already seen as to Poteriocrinus and Eupachy- 

 crinus, and will be still further proved in Stemmatocrinus, 

 which we consider to be the Russian representative of the 

 American genus Erisocrinus, although we are obliged to separate 

 them subgenerically. Trautschold describes his genus Stemmato- 

 crinus with a single subbasal plate, while in Erisocrinus the 

 pelvis is distinct^ divided into five pieces. We also observe a 

 difference in the construction of the arms, which in the former 

 are composed of a double series of interlocking plates, while in 

 the two species of Erisocrinus, in which the arms have been 

 found, they are composed of single transverse plates. Both spe- 

 cies, however, are from the Burlington limestone, and are very 

 small, and it is extremely probable, from analogy with contempo- 

 raries, that the arms in the species from the Coal measures, where 

 the genus flourished more abundantly, were, as in Stemmatocri- 

 nus, composed of interlocking pieces, and that the Burlington 

 species represent the young form. This would make the differ- 

 ence in the underbasals the only visible distinction. 



Meek & Worthen, after publishing the description of Erisocri- 

 nus, were led by its similarity to a genus described by De Koninek 

 under the name Philocrinus, from the Subcarboniferous rocks of 

 India, to believe it identical therewith, and ranged their species 

 under it accordingly. Later comparisons, however, led them to 

 reconsider this. They assert that if Philocrinus has no subradial 

 plates, then the two genera are clearly distinct; but, if small 

 plates should be discovered within the plates now called basals, 

 they are probably identical. We have never seen specimens, nor 

 even De Koninck's description of Philocrinus, and are unable to 

 express any opinion in the matter. 



Generic Diagnosis. Calyx saucer- to cup-shaped ; symmetry 

 strictly erpiilateral. General aspect similar to that of the two 

 preceding genera. 



Underbasals very small, forming a pentagonal, flattened, or con- 

 cave disc or low cup. Basals large, uniformly hexagonal. Radials 

 considerably larger than the basals, pentagonal, much wider than 

 high, upper sides straight. There being no anals, the plates of 

 each order or of each successive ring are of equal size and like 

 form, and alternate regularly with those of successive rows. Bra- 

 chials one by five, similar in form to the radials, but the lower 

 margins are straight and the upper obtusely angular for the sup- 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



port of the arms. The brachials abut laterally, leaving no space 

 for interradial or anal plates ; the hinge line constructed as in 

 Eupachycrinus. 



Arras two to each ray, strong, and, so far as j^et observed, com- 

 posed of a single series of transversely oblong pieces. 



Column round or obscurely pentagonal. 



Geological position, etc. The typical form of this genus has 

 been found only in America, where it is restricted to the Burling- 

 ton limestone and Coal measui'es. The two Burlington species 

 are among the rarest Crinoids of that locality, and in the Coal 

 measures perfect calyces are rare, though fragmentary pieces have 

 been found in some localities in great abundance. 



The following species are known : 



1869. Erisocrinus antiquus Meek and Worthen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 



71 ; Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. p. 447, pi. 2, fig. 3. Lower Burlington limestone. 



Subcarb. Burlington, Iow:i. 

 1865. Erisocr. conoideus Meek and Worthen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 150 ; 



Geol. Rep. 111., vol. ii. p. 318. Upper Coal Measures. Springfield, 111. 

 1865. Erisocr. typus Meek and Worthen. Type of the genus. Am. Jour. Sci., 2d 



ser. vol. xxix p. 174; Geol. Rep. 111., vol. ii. p. 319 ; ibid. vol. v. pi. 24, 



fig. 6. Upper Coal Measures. Springfield, 111. 

 Sy?i. Philocrinus pelvis M. and W. Am. Jour. Sci., 1866, p. 350. 

 Si/n. Erisocrinus Nebrascensis M. and W. Am. Jour. Sci. 1865, p. 174. 

 1869. Erisocr. Whitei Meek and Worthen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., p. 72; 



Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v. p. 448, pi. 2, fig. 2. Upper Burlington limestone. 



Burlington, Iowa. 



B. Subgenus STEMMATOCRINUS Trautschold. 



18G7. Crin. d. jungeren Bergkalkes b. Moskau, p. 28. 

 1879. Kalkbriiche von Mjatschkowa, p. 125. 



Calyx low cup-shaped, truncate below; symmetry equilateral ; 

 all the plates of the catyx regularly alternating. 



Underbasals represented by a flat disc, which is undivided, 

 regularly pentagonal, and extending considerably beyond the pe- 

 riphery of the column. Basals pentagonal, abruptly bending 

 upward, the lower portion included in the truncate surface, the 

 upper almost vertical. Radials pentangular, twice as wide as 

 high, articulating lines straight and extending the full width of 

 the plate. Brachials one by five, pentagonal, of similar form with 

 the radials; the upper margin obtusely angular, its sloping sides 

 excavated to receive the arms. 



First arm plate simple, comparatively large, lower face rounded. 




18*79.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



It is succeeded by two rows of regular interlocking plates. The 

 arms are very heavy, rounded on the outside, continuing of the 

 same size to near the top, where they taper to a sharp point. The 

 articulation between the radial and brachial plates is on the same 

 principle as in Eupachycrinus. There is a narrow single line 

 across the entire width of the plate, and the outer edges of both 

 plates adjoining it are so strongly bevelled in the typical species, 

 that if the arms were open, nearly one-half of the brachials would 

 rest upon, and be supported by the sloping face of the radials. 

 Column round. 



The total absence of anal plates in this and the preceding sec- 

 tion of the genus, distinguishes it readily from any other of this 

 family, but at the same time raises a reasonable doubt whether 

 Erisocrinus and Stemmatocrinus possessed a solid ventral append- 

 age, and, therefore, whether they belong to the Cyathocrinidse, or 

 even to the Palasocrinoidea. We have, so far, no knowledge what- 

 ever of the construction of the actinal or oral side of the body; 

 whether it had an open mouth or was firmly closed by plates or 

 scaly integument; and if it had not been for their marked resem- 

 blance to Eupachycrinus in which a ventral' tube has been ob- 

 served, and that both were representatives of the same geological 

 age, living under the very same conditions, we should have felt 

 strongly disposed to place the whole genus with Encrinus, with 

 which it has, indeed, both in body and arms, the closest affinities. 

 That Erisocrinus and Stemmatocrinus have only one brachial, 

 and Encrinus two, is not material, and is, at the most, only of 

 generic importance; but in Encrinus the aboral side of the body, 

 or the plates which in all Cyathocrinidae constitute the calyx, form 

 almost a flat disc at least do not extend beyond the basal plane 

 and this is the only important distinction which can be dis- 

 covered between the two forms in the fossil state. This, how- 

 ever, may involve important structural modification in the internal 

 anatomy of the animal, and probably shut out Encrinus entirely 

 from the Palaeocrinoidea. 



Geological Position, etc. Stemmatocrinus is onty known from 

 the limestone beds of Mjatschkowa, where Prof. Trautschold dis- 

 covered the only species. 



1867. Stemmatocrinus cernuus Tniut.=ch. Bulletin d. I. Soc. d. Nat. de Moscou, 

 1867; also Monogr. d. Kalkbr. v. Mjatschkowa, 1879, p. 125, pi. 14, fig. 12. 

 Upper part of Subcarbon., near Moscow, Russia. 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



21. (?) EUSPIROCRINUS Angelin. 

 1878. Iconogr. Crinoid., Suec. p. 24. 



General form, including arras, short subcylindrical. Calyx 

 cyathiform, unsymmetrical. 



Underbasals five, subequal. Basals five, four of them with 

 acute upper angles; the fifth heptagonal, the upper angle being 

 truncate to meet the second anal, its left upper side resting against 

 the adjoining first radial, the oblique right side against the first 

 anal plate. Radials large, sublunular. Brachials two, wide, very 

 short. 



Arras dichotomizing, and on becoming free coiled up spirally 

 inward. 



Anal area wide, plates large, alternately arranged as in Poterio- 

 crinus. Ventral tube rather slender, and composed of but few 

 exceedingly large plates. 



Vault constructed of five large oral plates; the ambulacral 

 furrows, which divide within the disc for the two main divisions 

 of each ray, covered by alternating pieces ; the median part of 

 the dome closed b3''. rather large apical dome plates. 



Column short, composed of alternately larger and smaller 

 joints; central canal moderately large. 



We place the genus E usp>irocrinus by itself, as it differs from 

 all other Cyathocrinid?e in its peculiar arm structure, in which it 

 somewhat resembles Edriocrinus Hall, and the recent genus Holo- 

 pus D'Orb. It also differs in the construction of the ventral sac, 

 which appears like the proboscis of the Actinocrinidas, except that 

 in Euspiocrinus the inner cavity is large. Pores have not been 

 observed. 



The only known species is, 



1878. Euspirocrinus spiralis Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 24, pi. 4, fig. 7a-e. 

 Upper Siluria. Gotland, Sweden. 



22. CARABOCRINUS Billings. 



1856. Geol. Surv. Canada, p. 275. 

 1859. Ibid., Decade iv. p. 30. 



Carabocrinus and the three following genera are imperfectly 

 known, and placed here with some doubt; better specimens must 

 be discovered before it can be decided whether they are good 

 genera. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 367 



Carabocrinus, in our opinion, is founded upon a malformed or 

 recuperated Gyathocrinus. A comparison of the two genera will 

 show that on the anterior side they are perfectly identical; they 

 also agree most remarkably in the form of the calyx, the construc- 

 tion of the oral side, the delicacy of the arms, and their mode of 

 branching. The only difference is said to be in the construction 

 of the anal area, which, according to Billings, is composed of 

 three plates, the lower one resting upon the underbasals, which is 

 in itself an anomaly such as is found in no other genus. But, 

 further, if Billings's interpretation of the plates in question be 

 correct, the anal area in Garabocrinus would be directed toward 

 the left side of the specimen, which would be the only exception 

 among the Palseocrinoidea, and there exists in no other group of 

 them a basal (subradial of Billings) which is neither radial nor 

 inter radial, and which is disconnected from the radials, as would 

 be the case in this genus. (See Billings's Diagram, Dec. iv. p. 30, 

 and pi. 2, fig. 3 c.) In this specimen, which is the only example 

 in which the anal area has been observed, the small and abnormal 

 so-called subradial and the two anal plates of Billings combined, 

 have almost the form of one of the other basals (subradials) and 

 are but slight^ larger, and we think that in the specimen they 

 originally formed a single plate, which was accidentally broken 

 during the life of the animal and afterwards recuperated, leaving 

 marks of fracture which Billings took to be sutures between the 

 plates. Similar cases are frequently met with among fossil cri- 

 noids, plates being sometimes broken into a dozen or more pieces, 

 which afterwards reunite, each piece retaining the appearance of 

 a true plate. 



Geological position, etc. Billings recognizes the following 



species : 



I 



1856. Carabocrinus radiatus Billings. Type of the genus, and the only species 

 and specimen in which the anal area has been seen. Geo], Surv. Canada, 

 p. 276 j Decade iv. p. 31, pi. 2, fig. 3 a-c. Trenton Limestone, Lower Sil. 

 Ottawa, Canada. 



1859. Carabocr. (?) tuberculatus Billings. Geol. Surv. Can., Dec. iv. p. 33, pi. 10, 

 figs. 2 a-c. Hudson River Gr. Lower Sil. Anticosti. 



1859. Carabocr. van cortlandti Billings. Geol. Surv. Can., Dec. iv. p. 32, pi. 2, 

 fig. 4. Trenton Limestone, Lower Sil. Township of McNab, Canada. 




368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



23. (?) CYRTIDOCRINUS Angelin. 

 1878. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 20. 



This genus is not only very imperfectly known a single calyx 

 only having been thus far discovered but it also deviates so 

 materially from all other Cyathocrinidae, that we doubt whether 

 it can be properly classed with that family. According to Angelin 

 it has four underbasals, which are small and unequal in size. 

 Basals five, pentagonal or hexagonal. A single anal plate is inter- 

 calated between two basals and two radials. Radial s five-sided, 

 oblique, clypeiform. 



1878. Cyrtidocrinus facietatus Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 20, pi. 21, figs. 

 13, 14, 14 a. Upper Silur. Gotland, Sweden. 



24. (?) PACHYOCRINUS Billings. 

 1859. Geol. Surv. Canada, Dec. iv. p. 22. (Not Pachycrinus Eichwald.) 



In the single specimen to which Billings applied the above name, 

 there are five pentagonal plates concealed within the cavity for 

 the attachment of the column, and above and alternating wdth 

 them five very large, thick plates, which may be either basals or 

 radials. The lower portions of these plates are bent under the 

 body, so as to constitute a broad, rounded, or concave bottom to 

 the cup, wdiieh has a width of nine lines at a height of two. At 

 this level the cup is broken off in the specimen. 



Billings refers to this genus: 



1859. Pachyocrinus crassibrachialis Billings. Geol. Surv. Can., Dec. iv. p. 22, pi. 

 1, figs. 1 a, b. Chazy Limest. Montreal, Canada. 



25. (?) MYELODACTYLUS Hall. 



1851. Geol. Eep. New York, Pal., vol. ii. p. 191. 

 1878. Angelin, Iconogr. Crin. Suec. p. 11. 



(Herpelocrinus Salter, 1873, Cab. Mas. Camb., p. 118 is synony- 

 mous with Myelodactylus, according to Angelin. ) 



Hall proposed the above generic name to characterize some 

 most remarkable fragments, apparently arm pieces of Crinoids, in 

 which, according to his description, " the foramen or medullury 

 canal penetrates the column of joints." No other portion of the 

 animal was known to him. 



Angelin, for reasons unknown to us, referred to this genus 

 three species, and gave the following generic descriptions, " Gene- 

 ral form of the body narrow, elongate ; calyx cup-shaped. Basals 




1873.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 369 



three ; parabasals five, polygonal. Primary raclials one, forming 

 a single zone; secondary raclials in two series, the upper ones 

 triangular and arm bearing. Interradials (probabty anals) two. 

 Arms long, threadlike, dichotomizing several times, composed of 

 single joints. Ventral tube distinct, articulated. Column strong, 

 convoluted, composed of thin joints with numerous articulated 

 cirrhi." He places this genus under his division "Trimera" 

 (along with Taxocrinus and Gissocrinus), among the Taxocrinidae. 



Comparing Angelin's figures, we find that only his M. hete.ro- 

 crinus agrees with the description. His M. gracilis lias five 

 primary raclials, or, as we should sa_y, four brachials ; his M. (?) 

 inter radial is three to four, and, contrary .to the rule in all Cyatho- 

 crinidse, a number of interradial plates. None of the species, 

 however, exhibit the peculiar arm structure upon which Hall 

 founded the genus; but, on the contrary, the two first-named 

 species at least seem to be devoid of pinnulse. Angelin figures pi. 

 10, fig. 25 an isolated convoluted column with numerous cirrhi, 

 which is said to belong to M. gracilis, and it seems that the super- 

 ficial resemblance of this column to the so-called arms of Myelo- 

 dactylus induced Angelin to adopt Hall's name for his species. 

 We cannot see any propriety in founding genera or species upon 

 mere fragments of arms or column, especially in a case like this, 

 where we are by no means satisfied that Hall's figure represents 

 the column, but rather believe, with him, that they are most prob- 

 ably portions of arms. We have here placed Myelodactylus pro- 

 visionally under the Cyathocrinidae, because Anuelin's first two 

 species undoubtedly belong to that family, though prohably to 

 different genera. His M. (?) inter radialis, however, is a repre- 

 sentative of an altogether different family. They all differ from 

 the Ichthyocrinidse in the large underbasals, in the free plates 

 above the first raclials, the threadlike arms, and the general physi- 

 ognomy. So far as we know, the species agree with no established 

 genus, but the figures without descriptions are not sufficient for 

 us to found new genera upon. 



Hall places here the following species : 



1851. Myelodactylus brachiatus Hall. Geol. Surv. N. Y., Pal., vol. ii. p. 232, pi. 



45, fig. 7. Niagara Gr. Upper Sil. Near Lockport, N. Y. 

 1851. Myelodactylus convolutus . Geol. Surv., N. Y., Pal., vol. ii. p. 19], 



pi. 42, figs. 5 a, b, and 6 a-h. Niagara Gr. Upper Sil. Lockport, N. Y. 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



Angelin's species are the following: 



187S. Myelodactylus gracilis Angl. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 11, pi. 10. figs. 28. 



Upper Silur. Gotland, Sweden. 

 1878. Myelodactylus heterocrinus, Angl. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 11, pi. 10, figs. 



24, 25. Upper Silur. Gotland, Sweden. 

 1878. Myelodactylus (?) interradialis Angl. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 11, pi. 10, 



figs. 26, 27. Upper Silur. Gotland, Sweden. 



LIST OF SYNONYMS, CORRECTIONS, AND IMPERFECTLY 



DEFINED SPECIES. 



Actinocrinus Miller. 



A. arthriticus, Phill., see Gissocr. arthriticus. 



Adelocrinus Phillips, founded upon fragments of column. 



A. hystrix Phill., founded upon fragments of column. 



Ataxocrinus Lyon, syn. of Anomalocr. M. & W. 

 Bactocrinites fusiformis Schnur. , s-ee Homocrin. fusiformis. 

 Baerocrinus Volborth, syn. of HyLocrin-us (Zittel). 



Barycrinus Waehsmuth. 



B. Lyoni (Hall's sp.), see Vasocr. Lyoiii. 



Cladocrinus Austin (not Agassiz), see Taxocrinns. 



C. brevidartyhis Aust. see Taxocr. breridactylus. 

 C. pentagonns Aust., see Puteriocr. peutagouus. 



Cleiocrinus Billings 



C. grandis Bill , founded on fragments of column. 

 C. magnificus Bill., founded on fragments of column. 



Clidochirus Angl., var. of Calpiocrinus Angl. 

 Cromyocrinus Trautschold, syn. of Eupachycrinus M. & W. 



C. gem.inatus Trautsch., see Eupachycr. geminatus. 



C. ornatus Trautsch., see Eupachycr. ornatits. 



C. simplex Trautsch., see Eupachycr. simp/ex. 



Cupulocrinus d'Orbigny, syn. of Taxocrinns. 



Cupressocrinus, Goldf. 



C. nuciformis Goldf., see Eupachycr. simplex. 



Cyathocrinus Miller. 



C. abbreviates Miller, insufficiently defined. 

 C. angttlatus M. & W., see Barycr. angulatiis. 

 C. arthritiens Phill., see Gissocr. arthriticus. 

 C. bulhosits Hall, see Araclmocr. bulbosus. 

 C. bullatus Hall, see Barycr. bulla tus. 

 C. con globatus Troost. Catalogue name. 




1879.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



371 



C. cornnttis 0. k Shum., see Barycr. comutus. 



C. corrugatits (?) Troost. Catalogue name. 



C. crassibrachiatus Hall, see Bm-yer. crassibrachiatus. 



C. erassns M. & W., see Eupachycr. crassus. 



C. crateriformis ? Catalogue name. 



C. deeadactylus Lyon & C, Pot. (Seytaloer.) grandis. 



C. decaphyllus Ad. Roemer, founded on fragments of column. 



C. depressus Troost. Catalogue name. 



C. distorts Phill., founded on fragments of column. 



C. divaricatus Hall, see Cyathocr. Toiveiisis. 



C. dubius Mdnster, not distinctly defined. 



C ellipticits Phill., founded on fragments of column. 



C. exilis Eichw., founded on fragments of column. 



C. florealis 0. & Shum., see Zeacr. Jlorealis. 



C. foueolatiis, Eichw., founded on fragments of column. 



C. globosus Troost. Catalogue name. 



C. Goscb Ad. Roemer, imperfect specimen. 



C. gracilis Troost. Catalogue name. 



C. gracilior F. Roemer, Poterioer. gracilior. 



C. granulatus Angl., see Arachnocr. granulatus. 



C. granuliferus Shum. 1852. We have not seen the description. 



C. hexadactylus Lyon, see Vasocr. Lyoni, 



C. Hoveyi Hall, see Barycr. Hoveyi. 



C. inequidactylus McCoy, see Poterioer. inequidactylus. 



C. inflatus Troost. Catalogue name. 



C. interbraehiatus Angl., see Gnorimocr. Love?ii~W. & Spr. 



C. intermedins Hall, see Pot. (Parisocr.) intermedins. 



C. Kelloggi AVhite. see Barycr. Kelloggi. 



C. lavicnlus Lyon, see Poterioer. lasviculus. 



C. latits Hall, see Barycr. sculpt His. 



C. Lyoni Hall, see Vasocr. Lyoni. 



C. macrocheirus McCoy, see Poterioer. macrocheims. 



C. maerodactylns Phill., see Taxocr. inacrodactylus. 



C. maeroplenrits Hall, see Vasocr. macruplenrus. 



C. magister Hall, see Barycr. magister. 



C. ma gnolimformis Norw. & Ow., see Zeacr. magnoliceformis. 



C. malvaceus Hall, see Cyathocr. Iowensis. 



C. megastyhis Phill. Fragments of column. 



C. nodulosvs Phill. Fragments of column. 



C. ornatns Phill., perhaps Platyerinus? 



C. penniger De Vern. Not seen description. 



C. pentalobus Hall, see Eti]>achycr. qvatuordecimbrachiatus. 



C. pinnatns Goldf. Cluster of arms of some other genus. 



C. pinnatns Bronn. Not seen description. 



C. protnberans Hall, see Barycr. biitlntus. 



C. pusillus Hall, see Lecanocr. pusillus. 



C. piriformis Phill., see Ichthyorr. pyriformis. 



C. quinquangnlaris Miller, see Pot. (Parisocr.) qvinquangularis. 



C quinquelobus M. & W., see Barycr. stelhitus. 



C. rarus Lyon. Too imperfect for identification. 




372 TROCEEDINQS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



C. Rhenanus F. Roemer, see Taxocr. Rhenanus. 



C. robustui Troost. Catalogue name. 



C. Roemeri Troost. Catalogue name. 



C. rugosus Miller (not Goldf.), is Crotalocr. rugosus. 



C. Sangamouensis M. & W., see Eupaehyer. Sangamonensis. 



C. scitulus M. & W., see Baryer. sculptilis. 



C. sculptilis Hall, see Baryer. sculptilis. 



C. sculptus Troost. Catalogue name. 



C. sculptus Lyon, see Vasocr. sculptus. 



C. soli/lus Hall see Baryer. solidus. 



C. spurius Hall, see Baryer. spurius. 



C. stellatus Hall, see Baryer. stellatus. 



C. subtumidus M. & W., see Baryer. subtumidus. 



C. Tennesseeus Troost. Catalogue name. 



C. tenuiradiatus Lyon. Insufficiently defined. 



C. tessnacontadactylus Salter, Pionocr. tesseracontadaetylus. 



C. thovia Hall, see Baryer. thomce. 



C. tricariuatus Ad. Roemer. Fragments of column. 



C tuberculatiis Miller, see Taxocr. tuberculatus. 



C. tumidus Hall, see Baryer. tumidus. 



C. valens Lyon, see Vasocr. valens. 



C. variabilis Phil]. Fragments of column. 



C. viminalis Hall, syn. of Cyathoer. Iowensis. 



C. Wachsmuthi M. & W., see Baryer. Wacksmuthi. 



C. Wortheni Lyon, see Poteriocr. Wortheni. 



E isociinus Meek & Worthen. 



E. titbercalatus M. & W., see Eupaeliycr. tuberculatus. 



Euryalecrinus Austin, syn. of Taxocrinus. 

 Euryocrinus Phill., see Iehthyocrinus. 

 Forbesiociinus De Kon. & Leh. 



F. astericeformis Hall, see Ouychoer. astenaformis. 

 F. divaricatus Angl., see Litkocr. divaricatus. 



F. Giddingei Hall, see Taxocr. Giddingei. 



F. gracilis Schultze, see Rhopalocr. gracilis. 



F. jucenis Hall, see Taxocr . juveuis. 



F. Kelloggi Hall, see Taxocr. Kelloggi. 



F. Jobatus Hall, see Taxocr. lobatns. 



F. lobatns (var. ) tardus see Taxocr. lobatus (var.) tardus. 



F. Meeki Hall, see Taxocr. Meeki. 



F Miller i Angl., see Lithocr. Milleri. 



F. Mouroeyisis M. & W , see Onychocr. Monroensis. 



F. mnhibrachiiitus Lyon & C, see Taxocr. multibrachiatus. 



F. Norwoodii M. & W., syn. of Onychocr. exsculptvs, L. & C. 



F. unntius Hall, see Taxocr. nuntius. 



F. obesus Angl., see Lithocr. obrsus. 



F. ramulosus Lyon & C. (not Hall), see Onychocr. ramulosns. 



F. ramulosus Hall (not L. & C), see Taxocr. ramulosus. 



F. robustus Angl., see Lithocr. robust us. 



F. spini/er Hall, syn. for Taxocr. Thiemei. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 313 



F. Shnmardianus Hall, see Taxocr. Shumardianus. 

 F. T/tiemei Hall, see Taxocr. Thiemei. 



F. Whitfieldi Hall, see Taxocr. Whitfieldi. 



Grammocrinus Eichwald. Founded on fragments of column. 



G. lineatus Eichw. Columns. 

 G. clatkratus Eichw. Columns. 



Graphiocrhius DeKon. & Leh. 



G. dactylus Hall, see Pot. (Scytalocr.) dactylus. 



G. quatuordecimbrachiatus Lyon, see Eupachycr. quatuordecimbrachiatus. 



Herpetocrinus Salter, see Myelodactylus. 



Heterocrinus Hall. 



H. canadensis Bill., syn. of Heterocr. simplex Hall. 



H. crassus M. & W., locr. crassus. 



H. gracilis Hall. Pieces of column. 



H. incuri-us M. & W ., see Anomalocr. incurvus. 



H. polyxo Hail, syn. of locr. subcrassus. 



H. subcrassus M. & W., see Jocr. subcrassus. 



Homocrinus Hall. 



H. angvstatus M. <fc W., see Dendrocr. angustatus. 

 H. polydactylus Shum. Dendrocr. jwlydactylus. 



Hybocrinus Billings. 



H. incurvus M. & W., see Anomalocr. incurvus. 



Hydreionocrinus De Koninck. 



H. globularis De Kon., see Eupachycr. globnlaris. 

 H. verrucosus White, see Eupachycr. verrucosus. 



Hydriocrinus Trautschold, syn. of Scaphiocrinus. 

 H. j)iisilli(s, see Scaphiocr. pusillus. 



Ichthyocrinus Conrad. 



I. Icevis Angl. (not Conr. ), see Ichthyocr. Gollandicus. 



I. tesseraconUidactylus D'Orb., see Pionocr. tesseracontadactylus. 



Isocrinus Phill. (not Von Meyer), see Taxocrinus. 

 Lecanocrinus Hall. 



L. elegans Bill. Perhaps Taxocrinus ? 



L. lavis Bill. Too imperfect for identification. 



L. macropetalus Angl. (not Hall), see Auisocr. Angelini. 



L. simplex Hall, see Ichthyocr. simplex. 



Lecythocrinus Joh. Muller, see Lecythocrinns Zittel. 

 L. eifelensis Mull., see Lecythocr. briarens Schultze. 



Pachycrinus Eichwald. Fragments of column. 

 P. )iotatits Eichw. Fragments of column. 



Palaeocrinus Billings, syn. for Cyathocrinus. 



P. angulatus Bill., see Cyathocr. angulatiis. 




374 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



P. pulchellvs Bill., see Cyatkocr. pnlchellus. 

 P. rhombiferua Bill., see Cyatkocr. rhombiferus. 

 P. striatus Bill., see Cyatkocr. striatus. 



Phialocrinus Eichw. (not Trautsch.). Fragments of column. 



P. impressus Eichw. Fragments of column. 

 Phialocrinus Trautsch. (not Eichw.), subgenus of Graphioerinus. 



P. urna Trautsch., see Poteriocr. (Scytalocr.) urna. 



Philocrinus De Kon. 



P. pelvis M. & W., see Erisocr. typ/is, M. & W. 



Poteriocrinus Miller. 



P. ahbreviatus Aust., see Taxocr. brevidurtylns. 



P. attfi uatus Hall, see Dendrocr. alternates. 



P. Barrisi Hall, see Cyatkocr. Barrisi. 



P. bursaforrnis White., see Zeaer. bursaforntis. 



P. caduceus Hall, see Dendrocr. caduceus. 



P. calyx De Kon. & Leh., see Hydreionocr. calyx. 



P. carinatus M. & W., see Poteriocr. (Pachy/ocr.) l.iliiformis. 



P. casei Meek, see Dendrocr. casei. 



P. Cincinuatiensis Meek, see Dendrocr. Cincinuatiensis. 



P. concinnus M. & W., see Poteriocr. (Pachylocr.) concinnus. 



P. Coreyi Worthen, see Poteriocr. (Scytalocr.) grand is. 



P. corycia Hall, see Poteriocr. (Scaphiocr.) corycia. 



P. crassimanus Eichw. Fragments of column. 



P. crateriformis Troost. Catalogue name. 



P. cultidactylus Hall, see Poteriocr. (Scapkiocr.) eztltidactylus. 



P. cyliiidricus Hall, see Homocr. cyliudricus. 



P. dilatatus Hall (not Schultze), see Caliocr. dilatatns. 



P. dilatatus Schultze (not Hall), see Vasocr. dilatatus. 



P. Dndleyensis Aust., see Cyatliocr. Dndleyensis. 



P. Dyeri Meek, s#e Dendrocr. Dyeri. 



P. Egertoni Phill., see Taxocr. Egertoni. 



P. enormis M. & W., see Cyatkocr. enormia. 



P.florealis Shum., see Zeacr. florealis. 



P. fu si for mis Hall (not Schultze), syn. of Poteriocr. (Scytalocr.) macrodacti/l as. 



P. f u si for mis Schultze (not Hall), see Homocr. fusiformis. 



P geometricus Goldf. , see Cyatliocr. geometricus. 



P. gracilis Hull (no McCoy), see Dendrocr. gracilis, 



P. granulosus Phill., see Hydreionocr. granulosus? 



P. hemispliericus Muller (not Shum.), syn. of Cyatkocr. geometricus. 



P. hemispliericus Shum. (not Muller), see Eupachycr. Craigii. 



P. Hoveyi Worthen, syn. of Poteriocr. (Scytalocr ) robust us 



P. impressus Richt. & Ung. (not Phill.) Imperfectly defined. 



P. tsacobus Aust., see Poteriocr. (Scaphiocr.) isacobus. 



P. Keokuk Hall, see Poteriocr. (Scaphiocr.) Keokuk. 



P. longidactylus Aust., 1843, Poteriocr. (Scaphiocr.) longidactylus. 



P. longidactylus Shum. 1855, Poteiiocr (Scaphiocr ) Missouriensis. 



P. longidactylus McChesn., 1859, syn. Poteriocr. (Scytalocr.) decabrachiatus. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 375 



P. McCoyanvs De Kon. & Leli., see Ilydreiouocr. McCoy anus (?) 



P. mespiliformis Richt. & Ung. Not sufficiently known. 



P. Meekianus Shura., see Cyathocr. Meekianus. 



P. multiplex Trautsch., see Potcriocr (Scaphioer ) multiplex. 



P. municipalis Troost. Catalogue name. 



P. nanus Roemer, see Homocr. nanus 



P. nurif or mis Fischer (Goldf. ), see Eupachycr. simplex. 



P. oeciilentalis 0. & Shum., see Agassizucr. occide/italis. 



P. parvus Hall, see Homocr. parvus. 



P Phillipsianus De Kon. & Leh., see Hydreionocr. Phillipsianus. 



P pisiformis Roemer, see Arachnocr. pisiformis. 



P. posticus Hall, see Dendrocr. posticus. 



P. proboscidialis Worthen, see Poteriocr. (Scaphioer.) proboscidialis. 



P. Rkenanus Wirtg. & Zeiler, see Taxocr. Rheuanus. 



P. rhombiferus 0. & Shum., see Barycr. rhombiferus. 



P. solidus M. & W., syn. of Poteriocr. {Scaphioer ) cequalis. 



P. spinosus 0. & Shum., see Poteriocr. (Scaph.) spinosus. 



P. subgracilis D'Orb., see Dendrocr. gracilis. ' 



P. subimpressus M. & W., see Poteriocr. (Scaphioer.') subimpressus. 



P. Sicalloci M. & W., see Poteriocr. (Scaphioer.) swallovi. 



P. tenuidactylus M. <t W., syn. of Poteriocr. (Scaphioer.) tenuidactylus. 



P. tenuissimus Eichw. Fragments of column. 



P. tumidus 0. & Shum., see Agassi zocr. tumidus. 



P. various Eichw. Fragments of column. 



P. ventricosus Hall, see Caliocr. venlricosus. 



P. zeaforrnis Schultze. Not defined. 



Scaphiocrinus Hall. A variety of Poteriocrinus. 



S. abiiormis Worthen, see Poteriocr. (Scytalocr.) abnormis. 



S. cegina Hall, see Poteriocr. (Decadocr.) aegiua. 



S. cequalis Hall, 1861 (not 1859), see Poteriocr. (Pachylocr.) subaequalis. 



S. Bayensis M. & W. , see Poteriocr. (Decadocr.) Bnye/isis. 



S. carinatns M & W. (not Hall), see Poteriocr. (Pachylocr.) liliiformis. 



S. carbotiarius M. & W., see Graphiocr. carbonarius. 



S. decadactylus Worthen, see Poteriocr. (Scytalocr.) grandis W. & Spr. 



iS. depressns M. & W., see Poteriocr. (Decadocr.) depressus. 



S. fiscellus M. & W., see Poteriocr. (Decadocr.) fiscell us. 



S. Haiti Hall, see Poteriocr. (Decadocr.) Halli. 



S. hemispkericus Shum. (Meek), see Eupachycr. Craigii. 



S. j uveitis M. & W., see Poteriocr. (Decadocr.) juvenis. 



S. longidactylus McChesn., see Poteriocr. (Scytalocr .) decabrachiatus. 



S. lyriope Hall, see Poteriocr. (Decadocr.) lyriope. 



S. macrodaclylus M. & W., see Poteriocr. (Scytalocr.) macrodactylns. 



S. macrop/eurus Hall, see Vasocr. maeroplenn/s. 



S. McAdamsi Worthen, see Graphiocr. Mc Adam si. 



S. notabilis M. & W., see Poteriocr. notabilis. 



S. orbicularis Hall, TZapachyer. orbicularis. 



S. rudis M. & W., see Graphiocr. rudis. 



S. scalaris M. & W., see Poteriocr. (Decadocr.) scalaris. 



S. simplex Hall, see Graphiocr. simplex. 




376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1819. 



S. spinobrachiatus Hall, see Graph iocr. spinobraehiatus. 



S. striatus M. & W., see Grapkiocr. striates. 



S. subtortuosus Hall, see Potertocr. (Decadocr.) subtortuosus. 



S. tortnosns Hall, Graphiocr. tortvosus. 



S. Wachsmuthi M. & W., see Graphiocr. Wachsmuthi. 



S. Whitei Hal!, see Poteriocr. Whitei. 



Sphserocrinus Roetner. A variety of Cyathocrinus. 

 Taxocrinus Phillips. 



J". Austini Angl., see Gnorimocr. Austini. 



T. briafeus Schultze, see Cyathocr. briareus. 



T. distensus Angl., see Gnorimocr. disteusus. 



T. excavatus Angl., see Gnorimocr. excavatus. 



T. expansus Angl., see Gnorimocr. expansus. 



T. interbrachiatus Angl., see Gnorimocr. interbrachiatus. 



T. oblongns Angl., see Gnorimocr. oblongus. 



T. oralis Angl , see Gnorimocr. ocalis. 



T. piDictutns Angl.,, see Gnorimocr. punctatus. 



T. polydactylus McCoy, see Onychocr. polydactylus. 



T. rigens Angl., see Gnorimocr. rigens. 



T. Salteri. Angl., see Gnorimocr. Salteri. 



T. simplex Salter, see Pionocr. simplex. 



T. tesseracontadactyhis d'Orb., see Pionocr. tesseracontadactylus. 



T. tubidiferus Angl., see Gnorimocr. tubuliferus. 



Zeacrinus Troost. 



Z. arboreus Wortben, see Poteriocr. (Pachylocr.) arboreus. 



Z. armigrr M. & W., see Hydreionorr. armiger. 



Z. asper M. & W., see Poteriocr. (Pachylocr.) asper. 



Z. concinnns M. & AV., see Poteriocr. (Pachylocr.) concinnus. 



Z. depressus Troost., see Hydreionocr. depressus. 



Z. discus M. & W., see Hydreionocr. discus. 



Z. excavatus Schultze, see Gnorimocr. excavatus. 



Z. formosus Worthen, see Eupachycr. formosus. 



Z. lyra M. & W., see Caliocr. lyra. 



Z. nianiformis Hall, see Poteriocr. (Scytalocr.) maniformis. 



Z. merope Hall, see Poteriocr. (Pachylocr.) merope. 



Z. mucrospinus McChes., see Hydreionocr. mucrospinus. 



Z. pater tins Hall, see Poteriocr. (Pachylocr.) paternus. 



Z. perang-ulatns White., see Poteriocr. (Pachylocr.) perangulatus. 



Z. planohrachiatus M. & W., see Poteriocr. (Pachylocr.) planobrachiatus. 



Z. sacculus White., syn. of Zeacr. Troostanus. 



Z. scoparius Hall, see Zeacr. Troostanus. 



Z. Stimpsoni Lyon, see Poteriocr. (Decadocr.) Stimpsoni. 



Z. subtumidus Worthen, see Eupachycr. stiblumidus. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 15. 



Letters referring to all figures on this plate : u = underbasals ; b = ba- 

 sals ; ? = radials; r} = primary radials ; r 2 = secondary radials ; r 3 = ter- 

 tiary radials; > = patelloid plates; a = arm plates; ' = interradials ; d = 

 axillary plates ; an = anal plates ; br == brachial plates ; A = anterior side ; 

 P = posterior side. 



Fig. 1. Diagram of Forbesiocrinus, showing the fundamental arrangement 

 of plates in the Ichthyocrinidge. 



Fig. 2. Diagram of Taxocrinus, showing, in connection with Fig. 1, the 

 distinction in the anal side between this genus and Forbesiocrinus. 



Fig. 3. Diagram of Barycrinus, showing the fundamental arrangement of 

 plates in the Cyathocrinidse. 



Fig. 4. Apical plates in Actinocrinus. 



Fig. 5. Apical plates in Platycrinus. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 16. 



Fig. 1. Diagram of Anomalociinus. 



Fig. 2. Diagram of Heterocrinus. 



Fig. 3. Diagram of Iocrinus. 



This and the following figures on this plate are given to show the 

 development of the anal plates from one genus to another. 



Fig. 4. Diagram of Hybocrinus. 



Fig. 5. Diagram of Dendrocrinus. 



Fig. 6. Diagram of Homocrinus. 



Fig. 7. Diagram of Poter iocrinus. 



Fig. 8. Diagram of Cyathocrinus. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 17. 



Fig. 1. Pentacrinoid larva of Antedon rosacea. (After Airman.) s = stem; 

 cd = centrodorsal plate ; b = basals ; r = radials ; or = oral plates. 



Fig. 2. Ventral side of Cyathocrinus, showing the oral plates, the apical 

 and radial dome plates being removed. 

 d 



or 



= oral plates equivalent to d in Fig. 4. 



Fig. 3. Ventral side of Cupressocrinus, showing the hydrospires; h = con- 

 solidating apparatus of European authors; g = openings which, from 

 25 




378 PROCEEDINGS OF TE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



their relative position, we suppose may be equivalents of the passage 

 in the inner lancet pieces in Pentremites, designated as I in Fig. 5. 



Fig. 4. Summit of Pentremites, showing the deltoid pieces and their appen- 

 dages hidden from view by the test in perfect specimens ; a = anal 

 opening ; h = hydrospires ; o = inner Avail or floor of the passage (so- 

 called ovarian openings) leading to the hydrospires ; the outer wall, 

 which is a part of the pseudambulacrum, having been removed from the 

 specimen ; d = the outer or visible portion of the deltoid pieces equiva- 

 lent to d in Fig. 2 ; I = plates lying directly below the lancet piece, 

 with tubular passage running lengthwise through them (see I in Fig. 

 5) ; b = passage formed by the edges of two deltoid pieces and the in- 

 ner lancet piece, externally covered by the pseudambulacrum equiva- 

 lent to the opening at the base of the arms in Paleocrinoids. 



This figure is a representative of the structure of this portion of the 

 Blastoid, as ascertained by examination of a number of specimens, 

 some in which parts of the test have been removed, others in form of 

 polished sections. It is based upon observation, not imagination, and 

 this figure, in connection with No. 5, will, we hope, enable the reader 

 to understand a construction alwa} 7 s difficult to explain, and which is 

 now, for the first time, correctly figured, as we believe. We have not 

 attempted to illustrate the details upon which our figure is based, be- 

 cause our object at present is only to point out certain affinities between 

 some forms of Palseocrinoidea and the Blastoidea. 



Fig. 5. Cross section of Pentremites pyriformis Say (at one-half the height 

 of the ambulacrum, one ray of the latter being removed). 



f= the halves of the forked plate ; L = lancet pieces ; 1= inner lan- 

 cet pieces; p = pore pieces ; m = ambulacral groove and food passage 

 covered in perfect specimens ; e= pores on the ambulacral field. 



Figs. 6, 7, 8. Hydrospires of Caryocrinus ornatus. 6. Surface view, show- 

 ing the openings through the test. 7. Representing the course of the 

 flat internal tubes. 8. Transverse section. 



(Note. The figures on this plate are more or less enlarged.) 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



November 11. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-two persons present. 



The death of J. Aitken Meigs, M.D., a member, was announced. 



The following papers were presented for publication: 



"Reply to Dr. M. C. Cook's criticism of paper on Variability 

 of Sphreria Quercuum, Sz." By J. B. Ellis. 



"On a collection of Crustacea from Virginia, North Carolina, 

 and Florida, with a revision of the genera of Crangonidae and 

 Pahemonidae." By J. S. Kingsley. 



Correction to paper on Hyraceum. Dr. A. J. Parker called at- 

 tention to the fact that in the paper entitled " Note on Hyraceum," 

 Proc. A. N. S. Philad. 1879, p. 12, sulphydric acid should be sub- 

 stituted for sulphuric acid in fifth line from the bottom of the page. 



November 18. 



Mr. Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Twenty-three persons present. 



A paper entitled "On the Stratigraphical Evidence afforded by 

 the Tertiary Fossils of the Peninsula of Maryland." By Angelo 

 Heilprin, was presented for publication. 



On the Genus Garberia. At the meeting of the Botanical Sec- 

 tion, held on 10th inst., Mr. Redfield presented the following com- 

 munication from Dr. Asa Gray: 



" I wish to secure an opportunity which occurs to dedicate a 

 genus of plants peculiar to Florida to Dr. A. P. Garber, of Penn- 

 sylvania, who has done such good botanical service in his recent 

 faithful exploration of the southern portion of Florida. Among 

 the rest, he has rediscovered the interesting plant which will now 

 commemorate his name and services. This plant is the Liatris 

 fruticosa, of Nuttall, before collected only by Mr. Ware in scanty 

 specimens. In the Transactions of the American Philosophical 

 Society (N. Ser., vii. 285), Nuttall formed for it a subgenus, Lepto- 

 elinium. In the Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts 

 and Sciences, xv. 48, issued only a. month ago, I raised this to 

 generic rank, in view of characters which need not here be reca- 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



pitulated. But I carelessly overlooked the patent fact that the 

 late George Gardner had published, in 184G, a Liatris (Leplo- 

 clinium) Braxiliensis, which he supposed to be a relative of Nut- 

 tail's Liatris (Leptoclinium) fruticow, :ind that Bentham, in the 

 Genera Plantarum, in view of the pentangular achenium of the 

 Brazilian plant and other characters, founded a genus upon it, and 

 unhappily gave it the name of Leptoclinium. All this I unac- 

 countably overlooked. Now, although the name Leptoclinium 

 ought properly to belong to the North American plant, a sub- 

 generic name has no rights as against a published generic name. 

 So a new name must be provided for the Florida plant. I had 

 thought at the first of dedicating it to Dr. Garber, but I deferred 

 to the subgeneric name given already by Nuttall; and I now do 

 with alacrity what I ought to have done in the first place. The 

 name and synonymy will stand thus: 



Garberia fruticosa. Liatris fruticosa, Nntt., in Am. Journ. Sci. v. 

 299, and Trans. Am. Phil. Soc. 1. c. (subgen. Leptoclinium). Leptoclinium 

 fruticosum, Gray, Proc. Am. Acad. xv. 48, S. Florida, Ware, Garber." 



November 25. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-eight persons present. 



A paper entitled " Carcinological Notes, No. I.," by J. S. 

 Kingsley, was presented for publication. 



Authority was granted the Mineralogical Section to change the 

 name to the " Mineralogical and Geological Section of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia." 



The following were elected members: Benjamin Sharp, H. Rus- 

 sell Bassler, John C. Dawson, John Wilson, Otto Luthy, and Mrs. 

 Marine' J. Chase. 



Theodore Kjerulf, of Christiania, and J. W. Pike, of Vineland, 

 N. J., were elected correspondents. 



The following papers were ordered to be printed: 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



EEPLY TO DR. M. C. COOKE'S CRITICISM OF PAPER ON "VARIABILITY 

 OF SPH.2ERIA QUERCUUM, SZ." 



BY. J. B. ELLIS. 



In the last number of Grevillia the editor of that Journal makes 

 some statements with regard to my paper on Sphaeria Quercuum, 

 published in the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia last March, which need correction. He says " It 

 matters not that the sporidia vary in size and form, that in some 

 (of the species) they should be obtuse, in others rather acute at 

 the extremities, in some hyaline, in others deep brown." Dr. 

 Cooke, who has examined the specimens, must have known that 

 these various forms of sporidia instead of being characteristic of 

 different species are all to be found in the same perithecium, the 

 narrow and acute forms being in fact only young or imperfect. As 

 to the sporidia being "hyaline in some and in others deep brown," 

 the record in Grevillea contradicts that statement, so far at least 

 as the species of C. and E. are concerned, Melogramma Aceris alone 

 excepted; and even in this species my specimens have the sporidia 

 hyaline. S. eriostiga is also said to have the sporidia brown and 

 biseptate; but it is added that these were free spores, the sporidia 

 actually observed in the asci being hyaline. In my previous paper 

 I stated, and subsequent observation has confirmed the statement, 

 that brown biseptate spores are found in all the different forms 

 but as j'et not in asci. They occur but sparingly it is true, but a 

 careful and patient search is sure to reveal their presence. I wish 

 here to amend my original statement so far as the color of the 

 sporidia is concerned. In all fresh specimens examined, the spo- 

 ridia are hyaline. Some specimens on Quercus alba and on Vac- 

 cinium Pennsylvanicum, both of which had been poisoned, have 

 brown sporidia, but as the color may be due to the action of the 

 poison, it will be safer to assume that the sporidia are hyaline till 

 the examination of fresh and living specimens shall show them to 

 be brown. 



It is asked why twenty other species having similar sporidia 

 were excluded from the list? Simply because I had not actually 

 examined specimens of these species, and it was not intended to 

 give mere opinion, but to state facts actually observed. As to 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



''ignoring sill variations of internal structure" and u discarding 

 all external features," I am willing to let the specimens speak for 

 themselves. 1 



1 I intended to add to the original paper a foot note, designating all the 

 forms with perithecia not united in a stroma as var. simplex, but as no 

 additions could be made after the article was in type, I was obliged to con- 

 tent myself with adding this note with pen and ink to the copies sent me 

 for distribution. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 383 



ON A COLLECTION OF CRUSTACEA FROM VIRGINIA, NORTH CAROLINA, 

 AND FLORIDA, WITH A REVISION OF THE GENERA OF CRANGONIDJE 

 AND PAL-EMONIDJE. 



BY J. S. KINGSLEY. 



The specimens enumerated below were collected, with a few 

 exceptions, by Prof. H. E. Webster, of Union College, at North- 

 ampton County, Virginia (eastern shore, Atlantic side), beach of 

 Chesapeake Bay, opposite Fort Monroe, Ta., in the vicinity of 

 Beaufort, N. C, and Marcou Pass, Florida Bay, Harbor Key, 

 Plantation Ke} r , and Key West, Southern Florida, and Oyster 

 Bay, Charlotte Harbor, Sarasota Bay and Little Sarasota Bay, 

 on the west coast of Florida. I have endeavored to indicate to 

 a certain extent the geographical distribution of the species by 

 giving, in most instances, a list of localities from which specimens 

 have been reported, with the authority for the statement. In cases 

 where I have personally examined specimens, I have placed an 

 exclamation mark (!) after the locality followed by the name of 

 the collector. The arrangement followed in the Maioidea is that 

 of Miers (Jour. Linn. Soc'y, xiv. pp. 634-673, 1879). In the re- 

 maining gi'oups of the Brachyura, mainly that of Dana, the Ano- 

 mura, according to Stimpson (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 

 1858, pp. 225-238), while the order of the Macrura is essentially 

 that of Dana. A short notice of some of the new forms will be 

 found in the American Naturalist, vol. xiii. p. 584, September, 

 1879. 



Order DECAPODA. 



Sub-Order MAIOIDEA vel OXYRHYNCHA. 



Family INACHIDiE Miers. 



Sub-Family Leptopodiinae Miers. 



Genus LEPTOPODIA Leach. 



Leptopodia sagittaria Leach. 



Cancel' Sagittarius Fabr., Ent. Syst., ii. p. 442. 

 lnachus Sagittarius Fabr., Suppl. Ent. Syst., p. 359. 

 Macropus Sagittarius Latreille, Hist. Crust, et Insects, ii p. 112. 

 Leptopodia sagittaria Leach, Zool. Misc., ii. pi. lxvii. 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1819. 



Leptopodia ornata Guilding, Trans. Linn. Soc'y London, xiv. p. 335 



(1823). 

 Leptopodia lanceolata Brulle in Webb and Berthelot's Hist. Canaries, 



pi. i. (1836-1814). 



Five specimens were collected at Sarasota Bay, Fla. This 

 species has quite an extended range in the tropics. Stimpson 

 reports it from the Florida Reefs and Madeira Is.; von Martens 

 from Cuba; Guadeloupe (Latr., Martens, and Desbonne), Gulf of 

 Mexico and Antilles (Edw. and Gibbes), Canary Is. (Brulle), 

 Cayenne and Bahia, Brazil (A. M. Edw.). Alphonse Milne Ed- 

 wards maintains the identity of Leptopodia debilis Smith 1 with 

 this species. If it prove identical, the following localities on the 

 west coast of America will have to be added to the list: Valpa- 

 raiso (Bell, Edw., and Lucas), Panama (Smith), Realijo, west 

 coast of Nicaragua! (McNiel). 



I find among the Guerin collection in the Museum of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, a specimen labelled " Lep- 

 topodia vittata Guer., Senegal." I have not been able to find any 

 description of this species under that name, and possibly it was a 

 MS. one. However I am unable to separate it from Floridan forms. 



Genus METOPORHAPIS Stm. 

 Metoporhapis calcarata Stm. 



Leptopodia calcarata Say, Journ. Acad. Phila., i. p. 445. Edw., Hist. 



Crust., i. p. 276. 

 Metoporhapis calcarata Stm., Ann. Lye, vii. p. 198. 



Nine specimens of this rare species were collected at Sarasota 

 Bay and one, 3 r oung, at Charlotte Harbor. The other localities 

 are Beaufort, N. C. (Stm.); Charleston, S. C. (Say, Edwards, 

 Gibbes). 



Sub-Family Achaeinae. 

 Genus CORYRHYNCHUS Kingsley. {Podonema Stm., praaoc.) 

 Coryrhynchus riisei Kingsley. 



Podochela riisei Stm., Ann. Lye, vii. p. 196, pi. ii. f. 1. 

 Podonema' riisei Stm., B. M. C. Z., ii. p. 126. 

 Coryrhynclms riisei Kingsley, Am. Naturalist, xiii. p. 585. 



1 Leptopodia sagittaria Bell ; Edw. et Lucas in D'Orbigny, Voyage dans 

 1'Amerique Meridionale, p. 3, pi. iv. f. 3. 



Leptopodia debitis Smith, Second and Third Report, Peabody Acad. 

 Sci., p. 87. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 385 



Specimens were collected at Sarasota Bay. Stimpson had it 

 from St. Thomas and Tortugas. I have seen specimens from Key 

 West (A. S. Packard, Jr.). 



Sub-Family Inachinee Miers. 



Genus CHORINUS Leach. 

 Chorinus heros Leach. 



Cancer heros Herbst, Krabben und Krebse, pi. 42, f. 1. 

 Chorinus heros Leach MS., M. Edw., Crust., i. p. 315. Von Martens, 

 Arch, fur Naturgesch., xxxviii. p. 80, pi. iv. f. 2. 



Specimens in the Museum of the Peabody Academy (Florida, 

 C. J. Maynard) afford the following measurements: 



It has been reported from ~Key West (Gibbes), Cuba (Martens, 

 A. M. Edw.), Antilles (M. Edw.), Martinique and Barbadoes (A. 

 M. Edw.), Guadeloupe (Desbonne). 



Sub-Family Acanthonychinae Miers. 



Genus EPIALTTJS Edw 



Epialtus longirostris Stm. 



Epialtus longirostris Stm., Ann. Lye, vii. p. 199. A. M. Edw., Crust. 

 Mex. et Ant. Cent., p. 141, pi. xxvii, f. 5. 



Two specimens of this species were collected at Sarasota Bay. 



Epialtus minimus Lockington (Proc. California Acad., 1 8*77, p. 

 77) is a closely allied species, and possibly both should be sepa- 

 rated from the species with a shorter rostrum. 



Key West (Stm.), St. Thomas (Stm., A. M. Edw.). 



Family MAIID^I. 



Sub-Family Maiinae. 



Genus PELIA Bell. 

 Pelia mutica Stm. 



Pisa mutica Gibbes, Proc. Am. Assoc, iii. p. 171. 

 Pelia mutica Stm., Ann. Lye, vii. p. 177. A. M. Edw., Crust. Mex. 

 et Am. Cent., p. 73, pi. xvi. f. 2. 



Specimens were collected at Northampton Co., Va., Beaufort, 

 N. C, and Florida Bay, Fla. Prof. Gibbes' types were from 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



Charleston, S. C. Stimpson found it at Martha's Vineyard, Mass. 

 Dr. Packard collected specimens at Key West, Fla. ! 



Family PERICERIDiB Miers. 



Sub-Family Pericerinee Miers. 



Genus LIBINIA Leach. 

 Libinia dubia M. Edw. 



Libinia dubia M. Edw., Hist. Crust., i. p. 300, pi. xiv bis, f. 2. Streets, 

 Proc. Pbila. Acad., 1870, p. 104. A. M. Edw., Crust. Mex. et Am. 

 Cent., p. 129, pi. xviii, f. 5. 



Libinia distincta, Guerin in de Sagra's Cuba, p. 12. 



Northampton Co., Ta., Morehead Depot and Beaufort, N. C, 

 Little Sarasota Bay, Fla. Two males from the latter locality have 

 the following dimensions : 



Length of Carapax. Breadth. Ratio. Length of 2d feet. 



73 mm. 65 mm. 100 : 89 143 mm. 



64 mm. 50 mm. 100:78 104 mm. 



Other localities are Cape Cod to Florida (Smith); Nantucket, 

 Mass.! (Packard), Long Island (Streets), Charleston, S. C. (Gib- 

 bes), Key West! (Packard). 



Libinia emarginata Leach. 



Libinia emarginata Leach, Zoological Miscellany, iii. p. 130, pi. 108 



(1815). 

 Libinia canaliculata Say, Jour. Pbila. Acad., i. p. 77, pi. iv. f. 1. 



M. Edw., Hist. Crust., i. p. 300. Dekay, N. Y. Fauna, Crustacea, 



p. 2, pi. iv. f. 4. 

 Libinia affinis Randall, Jour. Pbila. Acad., viii. p. 107 (1839). 



Randall's types show no characters of specific importance 

 separating them from L. emarginata, and hence his name will 

 have to pass into synonymy. 



Prof. Webster's localities are North Hampton Co., Ya. ! Sara- 

 sota Bay! and Marcou Pass, Fla.! Other stations are Casco and 

 Cape Cod Bays (Smith), Massachusetts Bay! Nantucket, Mass.! 

 (Packard), Key West, west coast of Fla., and Nassau, N. P. 

 (Smith), W. C. North America! (Nuttall). 



Genus MICROPHRYS M. Edw. (= Milnia Stm.) 



Microphrys bicornuta. 



Pisa bicornuta Latr., Encyc. Method, t. x. p. 141. 

 Pericera bicoma M. Edw., Hist. Crust., i. p. 337. 




1870.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



Pisa bicorna Gibbes, Proc. Am. Assoc, Hi. p. 170. 



Pericera bicomata Gnerin in Raman de Sagra, p. 12. Von Martens, 



Arch, fur Naturgesch., xxxviii. p. 85, pi. iv. f. 4. 

 Pericera bicornis Sauss., Crust. Mex. et Antilles, p. 12, pt. i. f. 3. 

 Milnia bicornuta Stm., Ann. Lye, vii. p. 180. 

 MicropJirys bicornuta A. M. Edw., Mission Sci. Mex. et Am. Cent. 



Crust., p. 61, pi. xiv. f. 2-4. 

 Pisa galbica et Pisa purpurea Desbonne and Schramm, Crust. Guad., 



p. 18. 

 Omalacantha Mrmta Streets, Proc. Phila. Acad., 1871, p. 238. 



Specimens were collected at Plantation Keys, Florida Bay, Key 

 West. Specimens from Plantation Keys gave the following- 

 measurements : 



An examination of the single specimen which formed Streets' 

 type of Omalacantha Mrsuta, which is preserved (in a dry state) 

 in the Museum of the Philadelphia Academy, convinces me that 

 Alphonse Milne Edwards was correct in supposing it a variety 

 of 31. bicornutus. It stands midway between the typical form 

 (fig. 3, of A. Edw.) and that described by Desbonne as Pisa galbica 

 (fig. 4, of A. Edw ). It, however, differs from both in a much 

 smaller chiliped. 



Tortugas (Stm.), Key West! (Packard), Antilles (Edwards, 

 Saussure), Bermudas (Smith), Guadeloupe (Desbonne), Mexico 

 (A. M. Edw.), Aspinwall! (McNiel), Desterro, Brazil (A. Edw.), 

 Abrolhos, Brazil (Smith). 



Genus MACR0C0LCEMA Miers. 



Macrocoeloma trispinosa Miers. 



Pisa trispinosa Latreille, Encyc. Method, x. p. 142. 

 Pericera trispinosa M. Edw., Hist. Crust., i. p. 336. Von Martens, 

 1. c, xxxviii. p. 84, pi. iv. f. 4. Schramm, Rev. et Mag. de Zool. 

 III., ii. p. 342. 

 Pericera nodipes Desbonne and Schramm, op. cit., p. 15, pi. v. f. 13. 

 Macrocceloma trispinosa Miers, Jour. Linn. Soc'y, xiv. p. 665. 



A single male was collected at Key West. Key West (Gibbes, 

 Stim.), Tortugas (Stm.), Cuba (Martins), Guadeloupe (Desbonne). 




388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



Sub-Family Othoniinee. 



Genus OTHONIA, 1 Bell. 

 Othonia aculeata Stm. 



Upas aculeatus Gibbes, Proc. Am. Assoc, iii. p. 171. 



Othonia aculeata Stm., Ann. Lye, vii. p. 49. A. M. Edw., Crust. 



Mex. et Am. Cent., p. 115, pi. xxiv. f. 4. 

 Othonia Iherminieri Desbonne and Schramm, op. cit., p. 20. A. M. 



Edw., op. cit., p. 116, pi. xxiv. f. 5. 

 Othonia anisodon von Martens, 1. c, xxxviii. p. 83, pi. iv. f. 2. 



Professor Webster collected specimens of this species at Sara- 

 sota Bay and Harbor Key, Fla. I have examined others in the 

 Museum of the Peabody Academy from Florida (C. J. Maynard) 

 and Key West (A. S. Packard). I can see no constant differences 

 to separate the forms described as Iherminieri and anisodon from 

 typical forms. The teeth of the antero-lateral margin are variable, 

 and differ frequently on the two sides of the same specimen. A 

 3 r oung specimen from Sarasota Bay had but four teeth on the 

 anterolateral margin besides the angle of the orbit, but I could 

 find no other differences. In ten specimens the ratio of the length 

 to the breadth ranged from 100 : 81 to 100 : 94, with an average 

 of 100 : 86. Other localities are Key West (Gibbes, Stm.), Tor- 

 tugas (Stm., A. M. Edw.), Cuba (Martens), Guadeloupe (Des- 

 bonne), St. Thomas (A. M. Edw.). 



Sub-Family Mithracinee. 



Genus MITHRACULUS White. 

 Mithraculus coronatus White. 



Cancer coronatus Herbst, pi. xi. f. 63. 



Mithraculus coronatus White (pars), List Brit. Mus. Crust., p. 7. A. 

 M. Edw., Crust. Mex. et Am. Cent., p. 105, pi. xx. f. 1. 



Five specimens were collected at Key West, from which place 

 I have examined others collected by Dr. A. S. Packard, Jr. 



Ratio. 

 100 : 123 

 100 : 138 

 100 : 121 



1 The generic name Othonia was used by Johnston (London's Magazine 

 of Natural History, viii. p. 181, 1835) for a genus of worms, but since he 

 has been followed by no other author, with the exception of Gosse, and as 

 his single species has been assigned to the genus Amphicora, I refrain from 

 proposing a new name for Bell's genus. 




9 



1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 389 



Other localities are Tortugas and Aspinwall, Abrolhos, Brazil 

 (Smith), St. Thomas and Guadeloupe (A. M. Edw.). 



Mithraculus sculptus Stm. 



Maia sculpta Lamarck, An. sans Vertebres, v. p. 242. 



Mithrax sculptus Edw., Mag. de Zool., 1832, pi. v.; Hist. Crust, i. 



p. 322. 

 Mithraculus sculptus Stm., Am. Jour. II., xxix. p. 132. A. M. Edw., 



Crust. Mex. et Am. Cent,, p. 105, pi. xx. f. 2. 



Specimens were collected at Key West. I have seen others 

 from the same locality collected by Dr. Packard, and from Tor- 

 tugas (Lieut. Jacques). It has been reported from Antilles (Edw.), 

 Cuba, Surinam, and Venezuela (Martens), Guadeloupe, St. Thomas, 

 Martinique, Woman Key, Fla., and Cumana (A. Edw.). 



Mithraculus cinctimanuS Stm. 



Mithraculus cinctimanus Stm., Am. Jour. Sci. and Arts. II., xxix. 

 p. 132 (sine descr.); Ann. Lye, vii. p. 186. A. M. Edw., Crust. 

 Mex. et Am. Cent., p. 112, pi. xxiii. f. 3 % 



The twelve specimens of this species that I have examined agree 

 well with Stimpson's description, except in the coloration of the 

 hands. In these specimens (alcoholic), the hands are white with 

 the basal two-thirds darker; there is also a band of darker on the 

 fingers. Prof. Webster collected specimens at Plantation and 

 Harbor Keys. In the Peabody Academy are specimens from 

 Key West (Packard). Other localities are Tortugas (Stm.), St. 

 Thomas (Stm., A. Edw.), Guadeloupe (A. M. Edw.). 



Mithraculus hirsutipes Kiugsley. PI. xiv. f. 1. 



Mithraculus hirsutipes Kingsley, Proc. Bost. Soc'y, xx. 147. 

 Two males were collected at Sarasota Bay, which agree well 

 with my types, except in the comparatively narrower carapax. 



Length of Carapax. Breadth. Ratio. 



11mm. 11.8 mm. 100:107 



9 mm. 9.6 mm. 100 : 107 



There were two young specimens collected at Sarasota Bay, 

 which maj' be the 3 T oung of either of the last two species. They 

 differ, however, from cinctimanus in the absence of the large tooth 

 at the base of the dactyli of the cheliped, and in having the ridge 

 running backward from the palatal region broken; from hirsutipes 

 in the smoother carapax, more prominent frontal horns, and in 

 having the antennal spines as in cinctimanus, etc. 




390 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



Genus MITHRAX Leach. 



Mithrax spinosissimus Edw. 



Maia spinosissima Lamarck, An. sans Vert., v. p. 241. 

 Mithrax spinosissimus Edw., Mag. de Zool., ii. pis. ii. and in.; Hist. 

 Crust., i. p. 321. 



Two young specimens from Key West. Other localities are Mar- 

 tinique, Antilles (M. Edw.), Key West (Gibbes), Florida Keys 

 (Stm.), Cuba (Martens), Santa Cruz! (Charles Lawrence), Gua- 

 deloupe (Desbonne). 



Mithrax hispidus Edw. 



Cancer hispidus Herbst, op. cit, pi. xviii. f. 100. 



Maia spinicincta Lamarck, op. cit., v. p. 241. 



Mithrax spinicincta Desmarest, op. cit., p. 150, pi. xxiii. f. 1, 2. 



Mithrax hispidus Edw., Mag. de Zool., ii.; Hist. Crust, i. p. 322. A. 



M. Edw., Crust. Mex. et Am. Cent., p. 93, pi. xxi. f. 1. 

 Mithrax sp. Desbonne and Schr., op. cit. , p. 8, pi. ii. f. 4 and 5. 



Prof. Webster collected a single specimen of this well-known 

 species at Key West. It has been reported from S. Carolina 

 (Gibbes), Key Biscayne (Stm.), Kej r West! (Packard), Tortugas! 

 (Lieut. Jacques), Antilles (Edw.), Cuba (Martens), Guadeloupe 

 (A. M. Edw., Desbonne, Saussure), Martinique (A. M. Edw.), 

 Abrolhos, Brazil (Smith). 



Mithrax pleuracanthus Stm. 



Mithrax pleuracanthus Stm., B. M. C. Z., ii. p. 116. A. M. Edw., 

 Crust. Mex. et Am. Cent., p. 93, pi. xx. f. 3. 



Specimens were collected at Sarasota Bay. Stimpson's types 

 were from Key West and St. Thomas; Alphonse Milne Edwards 

 had specimens from Martinique and Guadeloupe. 



Family PARTHENOPIDiE. 



Sub-Family Parthenopinae. 



Genus PLATYLAMBRUS Stm. 

 Platylambrus serratus A. M. Edw. 



Lambrus serratus Edw., Hist. Crust., i. p. 357 (teste A. M. Edw.). 

 Lambrus crenulatus Saussure, 1. c, p. 13, pi. i. f. 4. 

 Platylambrus crenulatus Stm., B. M. C. Z., ii. p. 129. 

 Platylambrus serratus A. M. Edw., op. cit., p. 15G, pi. xxx. f. 1. 



A female was collected at Charlotte Harbor. (?) Indian Ocean 

 (Edw.), Antilles (Saussure), Loggerhead Key and Tortugas (Stm.), 




1819.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



Cuba (von Martens), Vera Cruz (A. M. Edw.), Guadeloupe (Des- 

 bonne and A. M. Edw.). 



M. Alphonse Milne Edwards considers this the same as the 

 Lambrus serratm described by H. Milne Edwards, and the de- 

 scription applies well to the specimen now before me. Milne 

 Edwards, Sr., gives the Indian Ocean as the habitat of L. serratus, 

 and Adams and White (Voyage of the Samarang, Crustacea, p. 

 30, 1841) report it from the Philippine Islands. 



Sub-Family Cryptopodiinae. 



Genus HETEROCRYPTA Stm. 

 Heterocrypta granulata Stm. 



Cryptopodia granulata Gibbes, Proc. Am. Assoc, iii. p. 173 ; Proc. 



Elliot Soc'y, i. p. 36 (fig.). 

 Heterocrypta granulata Stm., Ann. Lye, x. p. 102. A. M. Edw., Crust. 



Mex. et Am. Cent., p. 186, pi. xxix. f. 4. 



Specimens were collected at Northampton Co., Va. ; near Piver's 

 Island, Beaufort, N. C, Florida Bay, and Sarasota Bay. Fort 

 Macon! (Packard), Charleston, S. C. (Gibbes), St. Thomas (Stm., 

 A. M. Edw.). 



CANCROIDEA. 



Family CANCRID^S. 

 Sub-Family Cancrinae. 



Genus CANCER Leach (restr). 

 Cancer irroratus Say. 



Cancer irroratus Say, 1. c, i. p. 59 (pars), pi. iv. f. 2. 

 Platycarcinus irroratus Edw., Hist. Crust., i. p. 414. 

 Cancer sayi Gould, Invert. Mass., p. 323. 

 Platycarcinus sayi Dekay, N. Y. Fauna Crust., p. 7. 

 Platycarcinus irroratus Dekay, op. cit. , pi. ii. f. 2. 

 Cancer borealis Packard, Memoirs Bost. Soc'y, i. p. 303. 



A young specimen was taken at Northampton Co., Va. It was 

 rather more advanced than the form described by Prof. Smith 

 (Fish Coram., p. 533); the length was 5 mm., breadth 6 mm.; the 

 front is more produced, and the teeth of the anterolateral margin 

 are more irregular than in the adult, but not to such an extent as 

 in the younger form. I have not thought it worth while to enume- 

 rate all the reported localities for this species. I have examined 

 specimens from Labrador (Packard), Eastport, Me. (Hyatt), 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1819. 



Casco Bay (Cooke), Is. of Shoals (R. H. Wheatland), Salem, 

 Mass., Nantucket (Packard), Narragansett Bay, R. I., So. Shore, 

 Long Island. Dr. Coues reports it from Fort Macon, Prof. Gibbes 

 from Charleston Harbor, S. C, and Mr. Faxon writes me that 

 there are specimens in the Museum of Comparative Zoology, at 

 Cambridge, Mass., from Florida and Hayti (Dr. Weinland). In 

 the Museum of the Peabody Academy of Science, Salem, Mass., 

 is a fossil carapax of this species from the Post Pleiocene deposits 

 of Gardiner, Maine. 



Sub-Family Xanthinae. 



Genus ACTJEA De Haan. 

 Actaea spinifera, sp. nov. 



Closely resembles A. hirmtissima, of the eastern seas, as figured 

 and described by Riippell 1 and Dana. 2 Carapax everywhere above 

 areolate, more prominently so in front. Each areolet with small 

 prominent rounded tubercles, which are covered with numerous 

 stiff hairs, the spaces between the tubercles and between the areo- 

 lets are smooth and naked; front with two depressed and pro- 

 duced lobes, the margins of which are armed with tuberculiform 

 teeth ; orbits with traces of two fissures above, spined above and 

 below. Antero-lateral margins with five subequal teeth separated 

 by rather deep grooves, the first three of which are continued on 

 the under surface of the cnrapax; the teeth themselves have their 

 margins armed with small spines. The postero lateral margin is 

 strongly concave, as much so as in A. hirsutissima. Cheliped 

 stout, of moderate length, inner surface of the joints smooth and 

 naked, meros compressed, upper edge acute and haired, outer 

 surface naked, upper and outer surfaces of carpus and hand with 

 spiniform tubercles and stiff hairs, on the hand these tubercles 

 tend to arrange themselves in rows; fingers short, stout, gaping, 

 acute, black, their tips being white. Meral joints of the ambula- 

 tory feet compressed, upper margin acute, and terminating in an 

 acute spine, sides smooth, remaining joints and posterior surface 

 of the meros of the last pair with spines and hairs similar to those 

 on the chelipeds; dactyli terminating in a small acute claw. 



1 Bescbreibung unci Abbildung von 24 Arten Kurzschwanzigen Krabben 

 * * * des rotben Meeres, Frankfurt, 1830, p. 26, pi. v. f. 6. 



2 U. S. Expl. Exped., p. 164, pi. viii. f. 3. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 393 



Abdomen and sternum granulate, the granulations being more 

 prominent on the basal joints of the abdomen. 



A single male was collected at Plantation Key, from which I 

 derive the following measurements: Length, 14.2 mm.; breadth, 

 21 mm.; ratio, 100 : 148. This species is readily separated from 

 all other North American species by the spines on the anterolateral 

 teeth. 



Actaea nodosa Stm. 



Actcea nodosa Stm., Ann. Lye. vii. p. 203. A. M. Edw., Nouv. Arch, 

 du Mus , i. p. 266, pi. xvii. f. 6. 



A specimen from Plantation Key affords the following measure- 

 ments: Length, It. 5 mm.; breadth, 23.7 mm.; ratio, 100 : 135. 

 Tortugas (Stm.), Guadeloupe (Desbonne). 



Genus MENIPPE De Haan. 

 Menippe mercenaria Stm. 



Cancel' mercenaria Say, 1. c, i. p. 448. 



Cancer (Xantho) mercenaria Edw., Hist. Crust., i. p. 399. 



Pseudocarcinus ocellatus Edw., Hist. Crust., i. p. 409 (?). 



Pseudocarcinus mercenaria Gibbes, Proc. Am. Assoc, iii. p. 176. 



Menippe mercenaria Stm., Ann. Lye, vii. p. 53. 



Menippe ocellata Von Martens, 1. c, xxxviii. p. 87. 



Prof. Webster collected specimens of this well-known but 

 synonymically abused species at Beaufort, N. C, Florida Bay, 

 Plantation Key, Charlotte Harbor, Oyster Bay, Little Sarasota 

 and Sarasota Bays. 



Other localities are Fort Macon! (Coues, Packard), Charleston, 

 S. C. (Gibbes), Key West! (Packard), Isthmus of Panama (Streets), 

 Cuba (Martens). Mr. Faxon tells me there are specimens in the 

 Museum of Conip. Zoology from Cuba (Poey), and Galveston. 

 Texas (Boll). 



Genus PANOPEUS M. Edw. 

 Panopeus herbstii Edw. 



Cancer panope Say, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, i. p. 58, pi. iv. 



f. 5 (nee Herbst). 

 Panopeus Tierbstii Edw., Hist. Crust., i. p. 403. Dekay, op. cit., p. 5, 

 pi. ix. f. 26. Smith, Proc. Bost. Soc'y, xii. p. 276. 



Occurs in this collection from Northampton Co., Va., Beaufort, 

 N. C, Sarasota, Little Sarasota, Florida, and Oyster Bays, and 

 Charlotte Harbor, Florida. Other localities are Fort Macon, N. 

 26 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1819. 



C.l (Packard), BlufTton, S. C! (Dr. Mellichamp), Key West! 

 (Packard), Aspinwall I (McNiel), Long Island Sound and Baha- 

 mas (Smith), Cuba (Martens), Rio Janeiro (Heller). According 

 to Mr. Faxon there are specimens in the Museum of Comparative 

 Zoology from Boston (Gould?, 1853) and Providence River, R. I. 



Panopeus packardii Kingsley. 



Panopeus packardii Kingsley, Proc. Bost. Soc'y, xx. p. 152. 



Specimens occur from Sarasota Bay, Harbor Key, and Charlotte 

 Harbor, Fla. The majority of these specimens have the sinus 

 between the angle of the orbit and the second normal tooth more 

 shallow than did my types, which were from Key West (Packard). 



Panopeus texanus Stimpson. 



Panopeus texanus Stm., Ann. Lye., vii. p. 55. 

 Panopeus sayi Smith, Proc. Bost. Soc'y, xii. p. 284. 



Specimens occur in the Union College collection from North- 

 ampton Co., Ya., Beaufort, N. C, and Sarasota Bay, Fla. I have 

 also seen specimens from Eastham, Mass. (W. C. Fish), Wood's 

 Holl, Mass. (Packard, Verrill), New Haven, Conn. (Yale College). 

 A careful examination of a lai'ge series has led me to unite these 

 two forms, as I cannot find constant differences to separate them. 

 There is all variation in the subhepatic tubercle, from one as 

 prominent as typical specimens of P. herbstii to complete absence; 

 the form of the anterolateral teeth varies, while the terminal seg- 

 ment of the male abdomen is the same in each form; in some the 

 fingers of both hands were slender, some had them pointed on one 

 hand and excavate on the other, while others had the fingers of 

 both hands excavate. I am the more ready to unite them since 

 Prof. Smith suggests their possible identity. 



Panopeus depressus Smith. 



Panopeus depressus Smith, Proc. Bost. Soc'y, xii. p. 283; Fi9h Com., 

 p. 547, pi. i. f. 3. 



Specimens occur from Northampton County, Va., Beaufort, N. 

 C, and Charlotte Harbor, Fla. Other localities are Province- 

 town, Mass. (Smith), New Haven! (Yale College), Maryland! (C. 

 Cooke), West Florida! (Col. Jewett). 



Genus EURYTIUM Stm. 

 Eurytium limosum Stm. 



Cancer limosus Say, 1. c, i. p. 446. 



Panopeus limosus Edw., Hist. Crust., i. p. 404. 



Eurytium limosum Stm., Ann. Lye, vii. p. 56. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



Prof. Webster collected specimens at Sarasota and Little Sara- 

 sota Bay, Fla. Other localities, New York (Dekay), So. Carolina 

 (Gibbes, Stm.), Key West, Fla. 1 (Packard), Smyrna, Fla. (Gibbes), 

 Key Biscaj-ne, Fla. (Stm.). Mr. Faxon tells me that there are 

 specimens in the Museum of Comparative Zoology from Hayti 

 (Dr. Weinland) and Brazil (Thayer Expedition). 



Genus CHLORODIUS Leach. 



Chlorodius floridanus Gibbes. 



Chlorodius floridanus Gibbes, 1. c, iii. p. 175. 



Leptodius floridanus A. M. Edw., Hist. Crust. Fossiles, i. p. 228. 



But a single specimen of this common species was collected by 

 Prof. Webster, at Plantation Key, Fla. I have examined others 

 from Key West! (Packard), Aspinwall! (McXiel), and Abrolhos, 

 Brazil ! (Hartt). 



Chlorodius longimanus M. Edw. 



Chlorodius longimanus M. Edw., Hist. Crust., i. p. 401. 



A single specimen was collected at Key West, by Prof. Webster. 



I have seen others from the same locality collected by Dr. A. 

 S. Packard, which differ from Edwards's description in having the 

 meros of the chelipeds armed with five distant tuberculiform 

 teeth. Edwards's specimens were from Porto Rico. 



Chlorodius dispar Stm 



Chlorodius dispar Stm., B. M. C. Z., ii. p. 140. 



Eighteen specimens were collected at Key West, and as they 

 show a considerable range of variation, I give a description of a 

 specimen varying most widely from Stimpson's t3 T pe. 



Carapax transversely oval, very broad, smooth, naked ; antero- 

 lateral margin almost entire, the three last teeth alone showing, 

 and they but very slightly. Front sinuate, four lobed, resembling 

 that of Panopeas herbstii, a straight fringe of hairs above the 

 margin. Orbits entire above and below, the inner inferior angle 

 prominent. Chelipeds long, about equal in length, but differing 

 greatly in diameter, the right being usually the larger. Fingers 

 of the larger about half the length of the palm, short, stout, 

 gaping, with the extremities acute, not at all excavate. Smaller 

 cheliped, with the carpus and propodus polished and deeply punc- 

 tate. Hand long, no stouter than the preceding joint, subcjdin- 

 drical, fingers about half as long as the palm, closing completely, 




396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



and spoon excavate. Smaller specimens agree perfectly with 

 Stimpson's description, while the smallest specimen has all the 

 anterolateral teeth obsolete. 



Sex. 

 I 

 % 



Stimpson's types, two in number, were from Cruz del Padre, 

 Cuba. 



Family ERIPHID-Si Dana. 



Sub-Family Oziinae Dana. 



Genus HETERACT^IA. Lockington. 1 



In the two species which I have examined the following charac- 

 ters may be noted. Form similar to that of Pilumnus, which it 

 closely resembles in the antennae and external maxillipeds. It, 

 however, differs in the absence of a palatal ridge and in the curious 

 naked crests on the meral joints of the ambulatory feet. The 

 orbits have the external hiatus more or less distinct, and below 

 have two lobes. It forms one of these synthetic forms, which 

 like XanthodiitSi Eurytium, Eurycarcinus, Pilumnopeus, Micro- 

 panope, etc., combine the characters of both Cancroid and Eriphioid 

 Crustacea. The type is Heteractsea lunata. 2 



Heteractaea ceratopus Kingsley. 



Pilumnus ceratopus Stm., Ann. Lye, vii. p. 215. 



Pilumnus sp. Desbonne et Scbramm., op. cit. , p. 33, pi. iii. f. 9-10. 



A male was collected at Key West, Fla. Key Biscayne, Fla. 

 (Stimpson), Guadeloupe (Desbonne). 



Genus PILUMNUS Leach. 

 Pilumnus aculeatus M. Edw. 



Cancer aculeatus Say, 1. c, i. p. 449. 



Pilumnus aculeatus Guerin, Iconog. Regne Animal, Crust., pi. iii. f. 2. 

 Edw. Hist. Nat. Crust., i. p. 420. Gray, in Griffith's Cuvier, vol. 13, 

 pi. iv. f. 2, 1833. Martens, 1. c, xxxviii. p. 91, pi. iv. f. 6. 



1 Proceedings of the California Academy of Sciences, vol. vii. p. 97, 1876. 

 a Heteractsea lunata Kingsley. 



Pilumnus lunatus Edwards et Lucas in D'Orbigny's Voyage dans 



l'Amerique Meridionale, Crustaces, p. 20, pi. ix. f. 2. 

 Heteractcea pilosa Lockington, Proc. Cal. Acad., vii. p. 97. 

 Gulf of California! (Fisher), C. St. Lucas and Central America (Stimp- 

 son), Chili (Edw. et Lucas, Nicollet). 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 397 



Specimens were collected at Sarasota Bay and Marcou Pass. 



Pilumnus dasypodus Kingsley. 



Pilumnus dasypodus Kingsley, Proc. Bost. Soc'y, xx. p. 155. 



Harbor Key and Sarasota Bay, Fla. My types were from Key 



West. 



Pilumnus gemmatus Stin. 



Pilumnus gemmatus Stm., Ann. Lye, vii. p. 214. 

 Specimens were collected at Plantation and Harbor Keys, 

 Charlotte Harbor, and Florida Bay. I have seen others from 

 Key West (Packard). Stimpson's t}^pes were from St. Thomas. 



Genus ETJPILUMNUS (nov.). 



Carapax depressed. Basal joints of antennae as in Pilumnus. 

 External maxillipeds with the raeral joint short and narrow, it 

 being only about two-thirds as wide as ischial joint, which is short 

 and broad. 



Eupilumnus websteri, sp. n., plate xiv. f. 3. 



Carapax depressed, nearly flat, regions not indicated, above with 

 a short, sparse pubescence, front slightly arcuate, the margin with 

 fine spiniform teeth. Orbits above smooth, not toothed. External 

 angle spiniform, below with spines near the inner angle. Antero- 

 lateral margin with three prominent spiniform teeth, with smaller 

 ones between them, several small spines on the hepatic region, 

 and one on the branchial behind the lateral teeth. Anterior 

 margin of palate spined. The chelipeds are lacking in the single 

 specimen. Ambulatory feet compressed, spined above, dactyli 

 short, curved, spined below. 



Key West, Fla. Length, 6 mm.; breadth, 8.1; ratio, 100 : 135. 



Sub-Family Eriphiinae Dana. 



Genus ERIPHIA Latreille. 

 Eriphia gonagra M. Edw. 



Cancer gonagra Fabr., Suppl. Ent. Syst., p. 337. 



Eriphia gonagra Edw., Hist. Crust., i. p. 426, pi. xvi. f. 16, 17. 



Specimens were collected at Plantation Key, Fla. Other locali- 

 ties are Key West! (Packard), Tortugas (Stm.), Florida Keys, 

 Bahamas (Smith), Aspinwall! (McNiel), Abrolhos, Brazil! (Hartt), 

 Rio Janeiro (Dana, Heller), Cuba (von Martens), Jamaica et 

 Carolina (Bosc). 




398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



Family PORTUNID^3. 

 Sub-Family Lupinae. 

 Genus ACHELOTJS De Haan, Stm. 

 Achelous spinimanus De Haan. 



Portunus spinimanus Latr., Encyc. Methodique, x. p. 189. 



Lupa spinimana Desmarest, op. cit., p. 98. Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust, 



i. p. 452. 

 Achelous spinimanus De Haan, Fauna Japonica Crust., p. 8. A. M. 

 Edw., Archives du Museum, x. p. 341, pi. xxxii. f. 1. 



Little Sarasota Bay. 



Achelous gibbesii Stm. 



Lupa gibbesii Stm., Ann. Lye., vii. p. 57. 

 Achelous gibbesii Stm., Ann. Lye., vii. p. 222. 



Neptunus gibbesii, A. M. Edw., Nouv. Archives du Museum, x. p. 

 326, pi. xxxi. f. 1. 



Beaufort, N. C; Oyster Bay and Sarasota Ba} r , Fla. The range 

 of this species so far as known is included within the limits of the 



above localities. 



Genus CALLINECTES Stm. 

 Callinectes hastatus Ordway. 



Lupa hastata Say, 1. c, i. p. 65. 



Lupa diacantha Dekay, op. cit., p. 10, pi. iii. f. 3. 



Callinectes hastatus Ordway, Jour. Bost. Soc'y, vii. p. 568. 



Three sterile females were collected at Beaufort, 1ST. C. 



Genus NEPTUNUS De Haan. 

 Neptunus sayi Stm. 



Portunus pelagicus, Bosc, Hist. Nat. Crust., edit. i. t. i. p. 220, pi. v. f. 



3 (teste A. Edw.), edit. ii. t. i. p. 235, pi. v. f. 3 (non Linne). 

 Lupa pelagica Say, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., i. p. 97. Dekay, op. cit., 



p. 11, pi. vi. f. 8. 

 Lupa sayi Gibbes, 1. c, iii. p. 178. Dana, op. cit., p. 273, pi. xvi. f. 8. 

 Neptunus sayi Stm., Ann. Lye, vii. p. 92. A. M. Edw., Arch, du 

 Mus. x. p. 317, pi. xxix. f. 2. 



Plantation Key, Fla. 



Family PLATYONICHIDiE. 



Genus CARCINUS Leach. 

 Carcinus moenas Leach. 



Cancel' mamas Linne, Syst. Nat., edit. xii. p. 1043. Herbst, pi. vii. f. 46. 

 Portunus mcenas Leach, Edinburg, Encyclopedia, vii. p. 390 (teste 

 Bell). 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



Carcinus mcenas Leach, op. cit., vii. p. 429 (teste Auct.); Maliicos. 



Podophth. Brit., pi. v. f. 1-4. D.ekay, op. cit., p. 8, pi. v. f. 5-6. 



Alph. M. Edw., Arch, du Mus., x. p. 391. 

 Cancer granulatus Say, 1. c, i. 61. 

 Carcinus granulatus Smith, Fish Comm., p. 547. 



A single male from Northamptom Co., Va. This is the farthest 

 south on the Atlantic coast of the United States from which this 

 species has been reported. 



Genus PLATYONICHUS Latreille. 

 Platyonichus ocellatus (Herbst sp.) Latreille. 

 Portunus pictus Say. 

 Beach of Chesapeake Ba}^, opposite Fort Monroe. Mr. James 

 Hector (Trans. New Zealand Inst., ix. p. 473, pi. xxviii. f. 1, 1877) 

 reports this species from Wellington, New Zealand. 



OCYPODOIDEA. 



Family CARCINOPLACIDiE. 



Genus EURYPLAX. 

 Euryplax nitida Stm. 



Euryplax nitida Stm., Ann. Lye, vii. p. 60; B. M. C. Z., ii. p. 150. 

 Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., ii. p. 162. 



Specimens collected by Prof. Webster, at Sarasota Bay, Fla., 

 have the front slightly arcuate with a slight sinus at the middle, 

 but not emarginate. The carpi of the chelipeds are not flattened: 

 Otherwise the specimens agree perfectly with the descriptions 

 quoted above. Proportions of a male: length, 14.7 mm.; breadth, 

 23.5 mm.; ratio, 100 : 160. There is a single specimen in the Museum 

 of the Peabody Academy of Science, which came with Platyoni- 

 chus ocellatus, Squilla empusa, and two or three other species 

 with the label New Orleans. Other localities are Florida Keys 

 and St. Thomas (Stm.), Egmont Key, Fla. (Smith). 



Family OCYPODIDiE. 



Genus GELASIMUS Latr. 

 Gelasimus minax Le Conte. 



Northampton Co., Ya. 



Gelasimus pugillator (Bosc sp.) Latreille. 



Beaufort, N. C, and Sarasota Bay, Fla. 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



Gelasimns vocator (Herbst) Martens. 



Northampton Co., Virginia; Fort Macon, N. C, and Sarasota 

 Bay, Fla. 



Genus OCYPODA. 

 Ocypoda arenaria Say. 



Beach of Chesapeake Bay, opposite Fortress Monroe, and Sara- 

 sota Bay, Florida. 



Family GRAPSIDiB. 



Sub-Family Grapsinee. 



Genus GONIOPSIS De Haan, Edw. 



Goniopsis cruentatus Be Haan. 



Cancer ruricola De Geer, Menioires pour servir a l'Histoire des Insectes, 



vii. p. 417, pi. xxv. (non Linne). 

 Grapsus cruentatus Latreille, Hist. Crust, et Insects, vi. p. 70. Edw., 



Hist. Crust., ii. p. 85. 

 Grapsus longipes Randall, 1. c, vii. p. 125. 

 Goniopsis cruentatus De Haan, Fauna Japonica, p. 33. Edw., Am. 



Sci. Nat. III., xx. p. 164, pi. vii. f. 2. 

 Goniopsis ruricola White, List Crust. Brit. Museum, p. 40. Saussure, 



op. cit., p. 30, pi. ii. f. 18. 

 Goniograpsus cruentatus Dana, U. S. Expl. Exped. Crust., p. 342, 



pi. xxi. f. 7. 

 Grapsus (Goniopsis) cruentatus von Martens, 1. c, xxxviii. p. 105. 



A male was collected at Sarasota Bay. Other localities are 

 Florida Keys (Smith), Cuba (Saussure, Martens), Antilles, Brazil 

 (M. Edw.), Guadeloupe (Desbonne), Surinam (Randall), Venezuela, 

 Liberia (Martens), Abrolhos, Brazil (Smith), Rio Janeiro (Dana, 

 Heller), ? Gulf of Fonseca, west coast of Nicaragua (Smith). 



Genus PACHYGRAPSUS Randall. 

 Pachygrapsus transversus Gibbes. 



Grapsus transversus Gibbes, 1. c, iii. p. 181. 



Pachygrapsus transversus Gibbes, 1. c, p. 182. Kingsley, Proc. Bost. 



Soc'y, xx. p. 158. 

 Metopograpsus dubius Saussure, op. cit., p. 29, pi. ii. f. 16. 

 Metopograpsus miniatus Saussure, op cit., p. 28, pi. ii. f. 17. 

 Grapsus (Leptograpsus) rugulosus Martens, 1. c, xxxviii. p. 108. 

 Grapsus (Leptograpsus) miniatus Martens, 1. c, xxxviii. p. 109. 



Sarasota Bay. Other localities are Florida Keys and Texas 

 (Stm.), Key West! (Packard, Gibbes), St. Thomas (Saussure), 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



Cuba (Martens), Gulf of Fonseca, west coast Nicaragua! (Mc- 

 Niel), Panama (Smith). 



Genus GRAPSUS Lamarck. 

 Grapsus maculatus Edw. 



Pagnrus maculatus Catesby, Natural History of the Carolmas, ii. pi. 



xxxvi. f. 1. 2d edit., 1. c. 

 Cancer grapsus Fabr., Suppl., p. 342. 



Grapsus pictus Latr., Hist. Crust, et Ins., vi. p 69, pi. 47, f. 2. 

 Qoniopsis pictus De Haan, Fauna Japonica, Crustacea, p. 33 (1833). 

 Grapsus maculatus M. Edw., Am. Sei. Nat. III., xx. p. 167, pi. vi. f. 6. 

 Grapsus altifrons Stm., Ann. Lye., vii. p. 230. 



Specimens were collected at Plantation Key, Fla. According 

 to Martens, the Cancer tenuieristata of Herbst, on examination of 

 his types, proves to be Grapsus rudis, Edw., from the East Indies. 



Santa Cruz! (Charles, Lawrence), Cuba (Saussure, Martens), 

 Guadeloupe (Desbonne), Tortugas (Stm.), Madiera, Cape Verdes, 

 Peru, Paumotu Is., Sandwich Is. (Dana), C. St. Lucas (Stm.), 

 Mazatlan (Saussure), Gallapagos Is. (Miers), Chili (Nicolet), 

 Tahiti ! (A. Garrett). 



Genus PLAGTJSIA Latreille, Miers. 



The species of this genus have been recently revised by Mr. 

 Miers (Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., Feb. 1878, pp. 147-154). 



Plagusia depressa Say. 



t Cancer depressus Fabr.; ? Cancer squamosns Herbst; Plagusia sayi 

 Dekay ; Plagusia squamosa Latr. ; Plagusia gracilis Sauss. 



A single specimen (length 42.2, breadth 45.2 mm.) was found at 

 Plantation Key. 



Sub-Family Sesarminae. 



Genus SESARMA Say. 

 Sesarma cinerea Sny. 



Grapsus cinereus Bosc, op. cit., edit. 1, p. 204, pi. v. f. 1 (teste auct.). 

 Sesarma cinerea, Say, 1. c., i. p. 442 (non Grapsus cinereus, p. 99), 

 Edw., Hist. Crust., ii. p. 75. 



Northampton Co., Va., Beaufort, N. C, Sarasota and Little 

 Sarasota Bays, Florida. 



Sesarma reticulata Say. 



Sesarma reticulata Say, 1. c., i. pp. 73, 76, 442, pi. iv. f. 6 ; Edw., Ann. 



Sci. Nat., III. xx. 182. 

 Sesarma cinerea Dekay, op. cit., p. 15. 



Northampton Co., Va., and Little Sarasota Bay, Fla. 



I 




402 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1819. 



Genus ARATUS. 

 Aratus pisonii M. Edw. 



Sesarma pisonii M. Edw., Hist. Crust., ii. p. 76, pi. xix. f. 4-6. 

 Aratus pisonii M. Edw., Ann. Sci. Nat., II. xx. p. 187; Stm., Ann. 



Lye, vii. p. 232. 

 Sesarma (Aratus) pisonis von Martens, Wieg. Arch., xxxv. p. 12, pi. 



1, f. 4 (1869) ; id., xxxviii. p. 111. 



Specimens were collected at Sarasota Bay, Florida. It ranges 

 south to Rio Janeiro (Heller). I am unable to separate speci- 

 mens from the west coast of Nicaragua (McNeil) from the east 

 coast forms. 



Family PINNOTHERIDiE. 



Genus PINNOTHERES. 



Pinnotheres ostreum Say. 



Pinnotheres ostreum Say, 1. c, i. p. 67, pi. iv. f. 5. 

 Beaufort, N. C. 

 Pinnotheres maculatus. 



Pinnotheres maculatus Say, 1. c, i. p. 450. 

 Pinnotheres ostreum Smith, Fish Commisson, pi. i. f. 2. 



Beaufort and Morehead Depot, N. C. 



Genus PINNIXA White. 

 Pinnixa cylindrica White. 



Pinnotheres cylindrica Say, 1. c, i. p. 452. 



Pinnixa cylindrica White, List Crust. Brit. Mus., p. 33 ; Ann. and 

 Mag. Nat. Hist., xviii. p. 177 ; Smith, Fish Comm., p. 546, pi. 1, f. i. 

 Pinnixa laevigata Stm., Ann. Lye, vii. p. 68. 



Specimens were collected at Florida and Sarasota Bays, Fla. 

 It has previous^ been known from Vineyard Sound (Smith) to 

 South Carolina (Stimp.). 



Pinnixa chaetopterana Stm. 



Pinnixa cylindrica Stm., Ann. Lye, vii. p. 68 (non Say). 

 Pinnixa chwtopterana Stm., Ann. Lye, vii. p. 235. 



Eastern shore Virginia, Beaufort, N. C, and Florida Bay, Fla. 



LEUCOSOIDEA. 



Family CALAPPIDiE. 



Genus CALAPPA Fabr. 

 Calappa marmorata Fabr. 



Calappa marmorata Fabr., Suppl. Ent. Syst. p. 346 ; M. Edw., Hist. 

 Crust, ii. p. 104. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



Prof. Webster collected specimens at Beaufort, N. C, Key West, 

 and Sarasota Bay, Fla. Other localities are Antilles (Auct.), 

 Pensacola, Tortugas, and Key West (Stm.), Charleston, S. C. 

 (Gibbes), Cuba (Martens), Bermudas (Goode), Guadeloupe (Des- 

 borne). Mr. Faxon tells me he has taken specimens at Newport, 

 R.I. 



Family MATUTIDiE. 



Genus HEPATUS Latreille. 

 Hepatus decorus Gibbes. 



Cancer decorus Harbst, op. cit., p. 154, pi. xxxvii. f. 6. 

 Hepatus decorus Gibbes, Proc. Am. Assoc, iii. p. 183. 

 Hepatus vanbenedeni Herklots, Bidjr. tot de Dierkunde, I. p. 35, pi. 

 1, f. 1 (1852). 



Specimens were collected at Beaufort, N. C, Charlotte Harbor, 

 Marcou Pass, and Sarasota Bay, Fla. Dr. Stimpson suggests a 

 comparison of the young of this species with H. tuberculatum 

 Saussure, but, on examination, the difference is as great as in the 

 adult. 



Family LEUCOSIDiE. 



Sub-Family Iliinae. 



Genus PERSEPHONE. 

 Persephone punctata Stm. 



Cancer punctata Brown, Natural History of Jamaica, pi. 42, f. 3. 

 Persephone latreillei et P. la mar ck ii L each, Zool. Mis., iii. p. 22. 

 Ouaia punctata Edw., Hist. Crust., ii. p. 127. 

 Persephone guaia Bell, Trans. Linn. Soc'y* xx. p. 292. 

 Persephone punctata Stm., Ann. N. Y. Lye, vii. p. 70. 



Beaufort, N. C, Sarasota and Florida Bays, Fla. 



Sub-Family Ebaliinae. 



Genus LITHADIA. 

 Lithadia cariosa Stm. 



Lithadia cariosa Stm., Ann. Lye, vii. p. 238. 

 Beaufort, N. C, Harbor Key, Fla., and Sarasota Ba}', Florida. 

 The Floridan forms have a less irregular carapax, but otherwise 

 I can detect no difference. 



Lithadia lacunosa, sp. n. 



Carapax convex, with small circular depressions, similar in 

 form and appearance to those on a lady's thimble. Closely re- 




404 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



sembling L. cariosa in form. Inner portions of branchial and car- 

 diac regions moderately protuberant. Hepatic region but slightly 

 excavate, the ridge crossing it being broad, low, and rounded, 

 otherwise as in L. cariosa. Front elevated, and connected with 

 cardiac region by a broad rounded ridge (in cariosa this ridge is 

 narrow and more abrupt) ; a small tooth on the postero-lateral 

 margin. The sulcus separating the cardiac from the branchial re- 

 gion is well marked, but not so much as in cariosa. Chelipeds 

 with small tubercles. Abdomen of the male with a strong tooth 

 directed backward, arising from the proximal margin of the penult 

 joint. 



A male from Sarasota Bay gives the following measurements: 

 Length of carapax 9.7 mm., breadth 11.1 mm., ratio 100 : 135. 



This species differs from cariosa in the broader carapax, the 

 ornamentation, and more even surface ; from pontifera in lacking 

 the " bridged" fossse between the cardiac and brachial regions ; 

 from cadaverosa in more even carapax and ornamentation, and in 

 having but one tooth on the antero-lateral margin ; from cubensia 

 in having the meros of the chelipeds subcylindrical, and not ex- 

 panded behind. 



DROMIOIDEA. 



Family DROMIID.S3. 



Genus DROMIDIA Stm. 

 Dromidia antillensis Stm. 



Dromidia antillensis Stm., Proc. Phila. Acad., 1858, p. 225 ; Ann. 

 Lye. vii. p. 71. 



A single specimen from Key West. Other localities are Tor- 

 tugas and Key Biscayne (Stm.), St. Thomas, and Abrolhos, Bra- 

 zil (Smith). 



Genus HYPOCONCHA Guerin. 

 Hypoconcha arcuata Stm. 



Hypoconcha arcuata Stm., Proc. Phila. Acad., 1858, p. 226 ; Ann. Lye, 

 vii. p. 72. 



Professor Webster collected specimens at Florida and Sarasota 

 Bays. I have seen others from Key West (A. S. Packard, Jr.). 

 Stimpson had specimens from South Carolina and St. Thomas. 

 It seems to me that both Guerin and Stimpson are right in ex- 

 plaining the manner in which this crab holds the protecting shell, 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 405 



that the two posterior pairs of feet and the projecting abdomen 

 each do their part. 



PORCELLANOIDEA. 



Family POCELLANIDiE. 

 Genus PETROLISTHES Stm. 1 

 Petrolisthes sexpinosus Stm. 



Porcellana galathina Say, 1. c, i. p. 458 ? (non Bosc). 

 Porcellana sexspinosa Gibbes, Proc. Am. Assoc, iii. p. 190. 

 Petrolisthes sexpinosus Stm., Proc. Phila. Acad., 1858, p. 227. 



Professor Webster collected specimens at Key West, Harbor 

 Key, Florida Bay, and Sarasota Bay. 



I am inclined to follow Stimpson in supposing that this is not 

 the Porcellana galathina of Bosc, as it differs considerably from 

 his figure, which represents a species with smaller hands, shorter 

 fingers, the ridges of the carapax different, while the carapax itself 

 is nothing like that of this species. This species has been re- 

 ported from Georgia and Florida (Say), South Carolina and Key 

 West (Gibbes) and Florida Keys (Stm.). 



Petrolisthes jugosus Streets. 



Petrolisthes jugosus Streets, 1. c, 1872, p. 134. 

 I refer, with a doubt, a single specimen collected at Key West 

 to this species, as it presents the following points of difference 

 from Dr. Streets' description : The lobes of the front are indis- 

 tinct. (The right hand is missing.) The posterior border of the 

 hand is not pubescent, and there is no trace of a furrow on the 

 upper portion of the hand ; the anterior margin of the carpus 

 has four teeth. In every other respect it agrees perfectly. Dr. 

 Streets' specimens came from the Island of St. Martins, W. I. 



1 I would here straighten the synonymy of two species of this genus 

 Petrolisthes dance- 



Porcellana bosii Dana, U. S. Expl. Exped. Crust., p. 421, pi. xxvi. f. 2 



(non Savigny). 

 Porcellana dance Gibbes, Proc. Elliot Soc'y, i. p. 11. 

 Petrolisthes braziliensis Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., ii. p. 38. 

 Rio Janeiro (Dana). 



Petrolisthes Helleri. 



Porcellana dance Heller, Reise der Osterreich Fregatte Novara, Crus- 

 taceen, p. 74 (non Gibbes). 

 Nicobars (Heller). 




40G PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



Petrolisthes armatus Stm. 



Porccllana armata Gibbes, Proc. Am. Assoc, iii. p. 90; Proc. Elliot 



Soc'y, i. f. 11, pi. i. f. 4 ; Martens' Wieg. Arch., xxxviii. p. 121, pi. 



v. f. 11. 

 Petrolisthes armatus Stm., Proc. Phila. Acad., 1858, p. 227,' vii. p. 73. 



Specimens were collected at Sarasota, Charlotte, and Florida 

 Bays. Other localities are Key West! (Packard), Florida (Gibbes), 

 Aspinwall, St. Thomas, and Panama (Stm.), Cuba (Martens), 

 Fonseca, west coast Nicaragua! (McNiel), Gulf of California 

 (Lockington). 



Dr. von Martens quotes P. galathina Bosc as a synonym of this 

 species, which is surely erroneous. 



Genus PISOSOMA Stm. 

 Pisosoma glabra, sp. n. Plate xiv. fig. 2. 



Carapax convex, a little broader than long, polished, microsco- 

 pically punctate. Front advanced, broad, three lobed, the median 

 lobe being slightly more advanced than the lateral ones. Anten- 

 nae about twice as long as the carapax, the basal joints similar to 

 those of Petrolisthes. Chelipeds short, stout; rneros subcubical, 

 its anterior margin distally armed with an acute tooth directed 

 toward the carpus ; carpus stout, broader than long, its anterior 

 margin expanded, with a strong tooth on the proximal portion, 

 the remainder with rounded teeth, the posterior portion of the 

 upper surface is roughened, and the posterior margin distally 

 armed with minute rounded teeth. Hand twice as long as broad, 

 microscopically granulate, a shallow sulcus on the posterior por- 

 tion of the palm producing a cristate appearance of the posterior 

 margin ; fingers not so long as palm, completely closing, the dac- 

 tylus with a shallow groove above. Beneath, the chelipeds are 

 smooth and polished. Ambulatory feet sub-cylindrical, hairy 

 above. This species differs from Stimpson's description of his 

 imperfect specimen of P. riisei in the simple, not bimarginate 

 character of the front, etc. 



Five specimens were collected at Key West. 



Length of carapax 4.1 mm., breadth 4.5 mm., ratio 100 : 110. 



Genus PORCELLANA Lamarck, Stimpson. 

 Porcellana pilosa Edw. 



Porcellana pilosa Edw., Hist. Crust., ii. p. 255. 

 Carapax longitudinally convex, surface even, and covered with 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 407 



short stiff hairs arranged in transverse rows. Front advanced, 

 three-lobed, median lobe projecting beyond the others. Chelipeds 

 short, stout, unequal, and clothed above with a short pubescence, 

 interspersed in which are stiff hairs, similar to those of the cara- 

 pax. Carpus short, length and breadth about equal, the inner 

 margin expanded, and armed with four or five acute teeth. Hands 

 short and broad, almost sub-clielate, the thumb being very short, 

 and the dact}dus strongly curved. Ambulatory feet with pubes- 

 cence and hairs similar to those on the carapax. 



Specimens were collected at Sarasota Bay and Key West. 



Edwards's specimens were from Charleston, S. C. 



Porcellana sayana. 



Pisidia sayana Leach, Diet. Sci. Nat., xviii. p. 54. 

 Porcellana ocellata Gibbes, Proc. Am. Assoc., iii. p. 190. Ibid., Proc. 

 Elliot Soc, i. p. 12, pi. i. f. 2. 



Quite a number appear in this collection from Sarasota Bay. 

 Gibbes' types came from South Carolina; Stimpson reports it 

 from Fort Macon, N. C, Florida Ke} 7 s, and St. Thomas. 



At my request Mr. Edward J. Miers very kindly examined 

 Leach's type in the British Museum, which was sent by Say un- 

 der the name Porcellana galathina. He says : " Leach's speci- 

 mens of Porcellana (Pisidia) sagana are certainly not referable 

 to P. sexspinosa, as described by Gibbes, but appear to belong to 

 P. ocellata of the same author. They agree well with Gibbes' de- 

 scription and with specimens of P. ocellata received by the British 

 Museum from the Smithsonian Institution, differing only in be- 

 ing of smaller size and in no longer presenting any traces of the 

 pink reticulations." 



Porcellana sociata Say. 



Porcellana soriata Say, Journ. Phila. Acad., i. p. 456. 

 Pisidia soda Leach, Diet. Sci. Nat., xviii. p. 54. 



Porcellana sociata Gibbes, Proc. A. A. A. S., iii. p. 190. Ibid., Proc. 

 Elliot Soc, i. p. 12, pi. i. f. 6. 



Professor Webster collected specimens at Florida Bay and 

 Harbor Key. Other localities are Fort Macon (Stra.), South 

 Carolina, and Key West (Gibbes), Georgia, and Florida (Say, 

 Leach). 




408 PROCEEDTNGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



Genus POLYONYX Stm. 

 Polyonyx macrocheles Stm. 



Porcellana macrodheles Gibbes, Proc. Am. Assoc, iii. p. 191. Ibid., 



Proc. Elliot Soc, i. p. 6, pi. i. f. 5. 

 Polyonyx macrocheles Stm., Proc. Phila. Acad., 1858, p. 229. Faxon, 

 B. M. C. Z., v. 256, pis. II. and III. (Development). 



In this species the males are smaller, with a narrower carapax 

 and with the chelipeds proportionately longer than in the female, 

 as will be seen by the following measurements : 



According to Prof. "Webster's labels, this species was found at 

 Beaufort, N. C, and Shark Shoal, N. C, in tubes of Chsetopterns, 

 as was noticed by Stimpson. Stimpson and Gibbes had speci- 

 mens from South Carolina. Newport, R. I. (Faxon). 



Genus EUCERAMUS Stm. 

 Euceramus prselongus Stm. Plate xiv. fig. 4. 



Euceramus prmlongus Stm., Am. Journ. Sci. and Arts, II. xxix. p. 445. 



Professor Webster obtained specimens of this curious crusta- 

 cean at Beaufort, N. C. (7 faths.), and Florida and Sarasota Bays, 

 Fla., from which the following description is drawn : 



Carapax nearly cylindrical, the sides but slightly arcuate ; sur- 

 face even, with minute transverse strife, which curve forward on 

 the sides. Front, between the eyes, about one-third the width of 

 carapax, three toothed, median tooth longer and projecting further 

 than the laterals. There is a slight excavation of the anterior 

 margin over the eyes and antennas. A minute acute spine at the 

 antero-lateral angle, and a little posterior to this is a slight emar- 

 gination of the lateral margin. Eyes minute, but little prominent. 



Antennal flagella about three-fourths the length of the carapax. 

 Feet stout ; chelipeds stout ; hands slightly roughened, fingers 

 about as long as the palm, not gaping; second pair shorter than 

 the third and fourth ; fifth pair small, and curved in the same 

 manner as in the other Porcellanidee. Terminal segment of ab- 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 409 



domen and its appendages resembling those of the allied genera, 

 but narrower. Length of carapax 12 mm., breadth 6 mm., ratio 

 100:50. 



Genus HIPP A Fabr., Edw. 

 Hippa emerita Fabr. 



? Cancer emerita Linue, Syst. Nat. Ed., xii. p. 1055. 



Cancer testudinarius Herbst, pi. xxii. f. 3. 



Hippa emerita [>s] Fabr., Suppl. Ent. Syst., p. 370. Desmarest 



Consul., p. 174, pi. xxix. f. 2. Edw. Hist. Crust., ii. p. 209. Dana, 



U. S. Ex. Ex. Crust., p. 409, pi. xxv. f. 9. Miers, Journ. Linn. 



Soc, xiv. p. 313, pi. v. f. 9. 

 Hippa talpoida Say, 1. c, i. p. 1G0. Dekay, op. cit., p. 18, pi. vii. f. 



17. Smith, U. S. Fish Comra., p. 548, pi. ii. f. 5. Ibid., Trans. 



Conn. Acad., iii. p. 311. 



In the Union College collection appear specimens from the 

 beach of Chesapeake Bay opposite Fort Monroe, Beaufort, N. C, 

 Sarasota Bay, Fla. Specimens from the first locality measure 

 26 mm. in length of carapax. Mr. Miers has made a mistake in 

 quoting Prof. Gibbes, as this species does not occur at Boston 

 except in collections. 



Cape Cod to Florida (Smith), Venezuela (Miers), Cuba and 

 Mexico (Guerin), Rio Janerio (Dura, Heller, Miers), Corinto, 

 West Coast Nicaragua! (McXiel). These specimens are certainly 

 H. emerita, and not H. analoga, Stra. 



Family ALBTJNEIDiE. 



Genus ALBUNEA Fabr., Stni. 

 Albunea paretii Guerin. 



Albunea paretii Guerin, Revue et Magazin de Zoologie, II. v. p. 48, pi. 



i. f. 10. 

 Albunea oxi/ophthalma Leach (MS.), White, List Crust. Brit. Museum, 

 p. 57 (sine descr., teste Miers). Miers, Journ. Linn. Soc, xiv. p. 329, 

 pi. v. f. 14-15. 



A single specimen from Sarasota Bay agrees with Mr. Miers's 

 description and figures, except that the median emargination is 

 less deep and the lateral portion of the front more advanced and 

 more curved, the eyes also appear to be rather more slender. It 

 agrees well with Guerin's short description, and, as his was the 

 first published description, his name will of course hold. Miers 

 gives as localities 1* t. Christophers, Cayenne, and Brazil. Guerin 

 was not certain of the locality of his specimens, they were either 

 27 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



from Genoa or America. His types do not exist in the collec- 

 tion of the Philadelphia Academ}\ 



Genus LEPIDOPS Stm. 

 Lepidops venusta Stm. 



Lepidops venusta Stm., Proc. Phila. Acad., 1858, p. 230. Ibid., Ann. 

 Lj'c, vii. p. 79. Miers, Journ. Linn. Soc , xiv. p. 332. 



A single specimen, which I refer without a doubt to this species, 

 was dug up on the beach near Fort Macon, N. C. It agrees well 

 with Stimpson's description, and certainly is not L. scutellata, 

 from which it differs in the shape of the eyes, the form of the 

 front, the dactyli of the second pair of feet, etc. Stimpson's 

 type was from St. Thomas. 



PAGURIOIDEA. 



Professor Webster collected a large number of specimens be- 

 longing to this sub-order, but I am unable to report on them. 



THALASSINOIDEA. 



Family GEBIDJQ. 



Genus GEBIA. 



Gebia affinis Say 



Gebia affinis Say, 1. c, i. p. 241. Smith, Fish Comm., p. 549, pi. ii. f. 7. 

 Specimens w r ere collected at Beaufort, N. C, and Sarasota Bay, 

 Fla. Long Island Sound to South Carolina (Smith), Charleston, 

 S. C. (Gibbes). 



Family CALLIANASSIDiE. 



Genus CALLIANASSA. 

 Callianassa stimpsoni Smith. 



Callianassa stimpsoni Smith, Fish Comm., 1871-2, p. 549, pi. ii. f. 8. 

 Professor Webster collected specimens at Beaufort, N. C, and 

 Northampton Count}-, Va., Atlantic side. Southern States to 

 Long Island Sound (Smith). 



ASTACOIDEA. 



Family PALINURIDiE. 



Genus PANULIRUS Gray. 

 Panulirus americanus Streets. 



Palinibrus americanus Lamarck, Ms. ; Edw., Hist. Crust., ii. p. 298. 

 Panulirus americanus Streets, 1. c, 1871, p. 242. 




1819.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



A single specimen was collected at Plantation Key, Fla., An- 

 tilles (Edw.), Key West (Gibbes), Isthmus of Panama (Streets). 



I give below a revision of the genera of Caridea belonging to 

 the families Crangonidse, Atyidse, and Palsemonidse. It is founded 

 on the arrangement of Dana. The genera of which I have seen 

 specimens I have designated by the letter " o." As I have recently 

 published a synonymieal list of the North American Shrimps (Bul- 

 letin Essex Institute, x. pp. 53-71, 1878), I have refrained in most 

 cases from giving the synonymy of the species collected by Prof. 

 Webster. 



CARIDEA. 



Body generally laterally compressed, the carapax not united to 

 the epistome, usually a broad lamelliform appendage (antennal 

 scale) on the basal joint of the antennae, sometimes, however, it 

 is wanting; antennulae bi- or tri-fiagellate ; mandibles varying in 

 form, sometimes with, sometimes without a palpus ; external max- 

 illipeds generally pediform ; feet generally long and slender ; gills 

 composed of lamellae, five to eight pairs ; abdomen long, the # sides 

 produced downwards. 



Family CRANGONIDiE. 



Mandibles slender, incurved, cutting edge narrow, not dilate or 

 bifid, without a palpus, first and second pairs of feet unequal. 



Sub-Family Crangoninae. 



First pair of feet stouter than the second. Hand sub-chelate, 

 the dactylus closing on the margin of the palm, the pollex being 

 spiniform. External maxillipeds pediform. 



Genus Crangon Fabr. 1 Rostrum very short, eyes free, anten- 

 nulae biflagellate, first pair of pereiopoda stout, but little longer 

 than the second, second pair slender, elongate, chelate, remaining 

 pairs acuminate. Branchiae five on each side. Type Crangon 

 vulgaris Fabr. 



Crangon vulgaris Fabr. Several specimens were collected at 

 Northampton Co., Ya. 



1 Including Steiracrangon Kinahan, Proc. Royal Irish Acad., viii. p. 08 

 (1862). 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



o Genus Pontophilus Leach, Sars. 1 Rostrum short, eyes free; 

 antennulse' biflagellate; first pair of pereiopoda stout, second pair 

 very short, slender, chelate. Branchiae seven, including a rudi- 

 mentary one on the second maxillipeds. T} r pe Pontophilus sjn- 

 nosus Leach. 



o Genus Sabinea Owen. 2 Rostrum very short, eyes free, stout ; 

 second pair of pereiopoda very short, not chelate, dactylus minute. 

 Branchioe as in Pontophilus. 



o Genus Nectocrangon Brandt. 3 Rostrum wanting ; eyes nearty 

 hidden by the carapax ; second pair of pereiopoda chelate; dac- 

 tyli of fourth and fifth pairs dilated, natatorial. Branchiae five 

 on each side, none on the second maxilliped. Type Nectocrangon 

 lar (Owen sp.). 



o Genus Paracrangon Dana. 4 Rostrum elongate, eyes free; 

 second pair of pereiopoda obsolete, fourth and fifth pairs acuminate 

 gressorial. Type Paracrangon echinatus Dana. 



Sub-Family Lysmatinae. 



First pair of pereiopoda stouter than the second, both pairs 

 chelate, fingers subequal, carpus of the second pair annulate. 

 External maxillipeds pediform. 



o Genus Nika Risso. 5 Rostrum short, antennulse biflagellate 

 Hands of first pair of pereiopoda dissimilar, one being chelate, 

 the other not; carpus of second pair elongate, multiarticulate ; 

 hand minutely chelate. Type Nika edulis Risso. 



o Genus Lysmata Risso. 6 Rostrum elongate, sub-ensiform, 

 dentate; antennulse triflagellate ; first pair of pereiopoda stout, 

 of medium length, chelate; second pair elongate, carpus multi- 

 articulate; hand rudimentary. Type Lysmata seticauda Risso. 



Genus Hippolysmata Stm. 7 Rostrum elongate, antennulse 

 biflagellate. External maxilliped elongate, furnished with exog- 



1 Forkandlingar i Vedenskabs Selskabet i Christiania, 1861, f. 183. In- 

 cluding ^Egeon Risso. 



' l Appendix to the voyage of Captain Ross, p. 82 (1835). 



3 Argis Kroyer Naturhistorisk Tidsskrift. iv. p. 267 (1842-3) (nom. 

 prseoc.). Nectocrangon Brandt, in Middendorff's Reise in den Ausserten 

 Norden und Osten Siberiens, Band II. Zoologie, Theil 1. p. 114 (1851). 



4 U. S. Exploring Expedition, Crustacea, p. 537. 



6 Processa Leach. 6 Melicerta Risso. 



Proc. Phila. Acad., 1860, p. 26. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 413 



nath ; first four pairs of feet with exopodite ; first pair rather 

 stout, chelate, second filiform chelate, carpus multiarticulate. 

 Type Hippolysmata vittata Stm. 



Hippolysmata ivurdemanni (Gibbes, sp.) Stm. Professor Web- 

 ster collected a large number of this species at Sarasota and 

 Florida Bays, Fla. There also occur in the collection some young 

 specimens from Bird Shoal, Beaufort, N. C, which I doubtfully 

 refer to this species. I have seen specimens from Fort Jefferson 

 (Lieut Jacques), and Key West (Packard). 



o Genus Tozeuma Stm. 1 Body greatly elongate, slender, com- 

 pressed ; rostrum slender, very long, sometimes scarcely shorter 

 than the body ; antennulre short, biflagellate ; external maxilli- 

 peds very short, without exognath or flagellum, pereiopoda with- 

 out palpi ; first pair very short, stout, chelate, second filiform, 

 chelate ; carpus triarticulate, telson elongate, lanceolate. Type 

 Tozeuma lanceolatum Stm. 



Tozeuma carolinensis Kingsley (Plate xiv. fig. 8), was collected 

 at Charlotte Harbor, Fla., and Beaufort, N. C. ; at the latter place 

 in a surface net. 



Genus Latreutes Stm. 2 Carapax with a dorsal median spine. 

 Rostrum elongate, lamellate, antennulae biflagellate, basal scale 

 short, orbiculate, hidden under the eyes ; antennal scale acute ; 

 external maxillipeds short, with exognath ; first four pairs of pe- 

 reiopoda with palpi, first two pairs chelate, second with the carpus 

 triarticulate. Type Latreutes ensiferus (Edw., sp ). 



Genus Rhynchocyclus Stm. :i Rostrum large, lamellate, obicu- 

 late, antennulae biflagellate, peduncle short; external maxillipeds 

 short, with exognath; first four pairs of pereiopoda palpigerous ; 

 first two chelate, second with the carpus triarticulate. Type 

 Rhynchocyclus planirostris (De Haan, sp.). 



o Genus Concordia, 4 nov. Dorsum of carapax strongly protu- 

 berant ; rostrum very short, eyes free ; antennuloe with two very 

 short flagella ; antennal scale very small ; flagellum moderate ; 

 external maxillipeds short, stout; first pair of pereiopoda shorter 



1 Proc. Phila. Acad., 1860, p. 26. Angasia White, Sp. Bate Proc. Zool. 

 Soc. London, 1863, p. 498. 



2 Proc. Phila. Acad., 1860, p. 27. 



3 Cyclorhynchus De Haan, Fauna Japonica, Crustacea, p. 174 (nom. 

 prseoc.) Rhynchocyclus Stm., Proc. Phila. Acad., 1860, p. 27. 



4 Named in honor of Union College, to which the specimens helong. 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



and stouter than the second pair, which in turn are shorter than 

 the remaining pairs; the carpus two articulate. Type Concordia 

 gibberosus, sp. n. 



Concordia gibberosus, sp. n. (Plate xiv. fig. 5). Carapax with 

 the dorsum strongly elevated, and armed with five spiniform teeth; 

 the first of which is on the rostrum, the last at about the middle 

 of the carapax; carapax between the teeth ecarinate; rostrum 

 very short, not exceeding the short and stout eyes; antennula? 

 with two very short flagella, the outer swollen and ciliate ; an- 

 tennal scale extending slightly beyond the peduncle of the anteu- 

 nula?; flagella short, small, regularly tapering, about twice the 

 length of the carapax. First pair of pereiopoda short, stout; 

 fingers about as long as the palm, second pair longer and more 

 slender; carpus two-jointed, first joint longer than the meros, and 

 about twice as long as the second, remaining feet slender, elon- 

 gate, the propodal joints with a few spines on the posterior mar- 

 gin ; daetyli short, curved, with spines on the concave margin ; 

 abdomen strongly bent at the middle ; telson narrow, tapering, 

 sides straight, extremity acute. 



A female with eggs from Fort Macon was about 8 mm. long. 



Sub-Family Gnathophyllinae. 



Second pair of pereiopoda larger than the first pair, external 

 maxilliped broad, operculiform. 



o Genus Gnathophylluai, Latr. Rostrum short, compressed, 

 antennulse with two very short flagella, carpus of the second pair 

 of pereiopoda not annulate. 



Family ATYIDiE. 



Mandibles stout, not palpigerous, crown broad, dilated, slightly 

 divided. Second pair of maxillipeds short and broad; first two 

 pairs of pereiopoda nearly equal, the carpus of the second not 

 annulated. 



Sub-Family Atyinae. 



Pereiopoda without exopodite. 



o Genus Atya Leach Rostrum short, depressed ; antennula? 

 biflagellata; external maxillipeds small, slender; first two pairs of 

 pereiopoda similar, carpus lunate, bearding the propodus on the 




1870.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 415 



lower portion, fingers with long pencils of hairs; third, fourth, and 

 fifth pairs much larger and stouter. T} T pe Atya scabra Leach. 



o Genus Evatya Smith. 1 Kostrum prominent, carinate, with 

 spines above, anterior portion of carapax with scattered spines 

 and spiny carinations. Third pair of pereiopoda very stout and 

 tuberculate, basis and coxa anchylosed, ischium and meros firmly 

 united, propodus much shorter than carpus, dactylus very short, 

 unguiform. Type Evatya crasm Smith. 



o Genus Atyoida Randall. 2 Rostrum, antenna?, antennulae, and 

 the two anterior pairs of pereiopoda as in Atya; third pair of 

 pereiopoda elongate, scarcely stronger than the two anterior pairs. 



Known species : 



Type A. bisulcata Randall. 1. c. p. 140. Sandwich Islands. 



A. tahitensis Stm. Proc. Phila. Acad., 1860, p. 28. Society Islands. 

 A. mexieana Stm. Am. Journ. Sci. and Arts, II., xxvii. p. 446. 



Caradina mexieana Saussure, op. cit., p. 45, pi. iv. f. 26, Mexico. 

 A poeyi Guerin, in Raman de Sagra Hist. Cuba, Cuba. 

 A. glabra Kingsley. Proc. Phila. Acad., 1878, p. 93, West Coast 



Nicaragua. 



Genus Caradina M. Edw. Rostrum moderate, antennulae bi- 

 flagellate ; second pair of pereiopoda longer than first, fingers of 

 both pairs with pencils of hairs, carpus of first pair very short, 

 excavate in front, of second pair oblong, subcylindrical. Type 

 Caradina typus M. Edw. 



Genus Atyephyra Brito Capello. 3 Kostrum many toothed, 

 carapax with supraorbital and antennal spines; hands hairy, and 

 resembling those of Atya; eyes well developed. 1 Type A. rosiana. 



Genus Troglocaris Dormitzer. 4 Rostrum thin, with fine teeth 

 on the borders; supraorbital and antennal spines present; eyes 

 rudimentary, pereiopoda much as in Caradina. Type Troglocaris 

 schmidlii Dorm. 



1 Second and third Reports Peabody Academy of Science, p. 95 (1871). 



2 Journ. Phila. Acad., viii. p. 140 (1839). According to E. von Martens 

 (Archiv fur Naturgeschichte, xxxiv. pi. i. p. 47, 1868), this is not a valid 

 genus, as the young of Atya have the third pair of pereiopoda as in Atyoida. 



3 Discr. esp. now de Crustaceos de Portugal, p. 5, 1866. 

 * Lotos, III. p. 83 (1853). 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



Sub-Family Ephyrinee. 



Pereiopoda with an exopoclite. 



Genus Miersia Kingsley. 1 Rostrum toothed, antennuhe biflagel- 

 latc, two anterior pairs of pereiopoda, chelate small ; the carpus 

 of the second pair not annulate ; the three posterior pairs slender. 

 Type Miersia pelagica (Risso sp.). 



The known species are : 



pelagica (Risso sp.)- Mediterranean. 

 punctulata (Risso sp. ). Mediterranean. 

 compressa (De Haan sp.). Japan. 



Family PALiEMONIDiE. 



Mandibles stout, incurved, deepl}" bipartite, apical process nar- 

 row, oblong. 



Sub-Family Alpheinae. 



First pair of feet the larger, chelate ; second slender, filiform, 

 generally chelate, carpus frequently annulate. 



Section I. Mandibles with a Palpus. 



o Genus Alpheus Fahr. 2 Rostrum very short or wanting, an- 

 tennulae biflagellate, eyes hidden under the carapax ; mandibles 

 with a two-jointed palpus; external maxillipeds slender, moderate; 

 first pair of pereiopoda generally greatly differing in size; carpus 

 of second pair annulate. Type Alpheus rapax Fabrieius. 



Alpheus minus Say. Numerous specimens were collected. The 

 localities are Beaufort, N. C, Key West, Harbor Key, Sarasota, and 

 Florida Bays, and Marcou Pass. Three specimens from Harbor 

 Key were the largest that i have ever seen, measuring respectively 

 40.3 mm., 40.8 mm , and 42.3 mm. in length. Among those collected 

 at Key West were several of the form described lyy Gibbes as A. 

 formosus, and two which approached A. Jloridanus in size, form 

 of front, and hand. 



Alpheus websteri, sp. n. Carapax slender, compressed, rostrum 

 acute, separated from the orbital hoods by deep sulci. Orbital 

 hoods acute, but not spinose. Penult joint of antennular peduncle 



1 Epliyra Roux, Edwards, De Haan, Dana, Heller (nom. praeoc). 



2 Including Betieus Dana. Vide Kingsley, Bulletin U. S. Geol. and Geog. 

 Survey, iv. p. 189, 1878. 




1870.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 417 



about twice as long as the last joint. Antennal scale narrow, regu- 

 larly tapering, lamellar portion not extending to the spine terminat- 

 ing the external margin. External maxillipeds elongate, extending 

 beyond the antennal peduncle, the last joint with a long pencil of 

 hairs. Larger hand inflated, the upper outer proximal portion cir- 

 cumscribed by an impressed line, a slight constriction of the mar- 

 gins near the articulation of the dactylus ; thumb short, with a 

 shallow groove on the outer surface, which extends a short distance 

 on the palmar portion. Dactylus contorted, extending beyond the 

 thumb, extremity rounded. The dactylus and distal portions of 

 the propodus punctate and setose, especially on the inner surface. 

 Smaller hand subcylindrical, fingers about as long as palm, gaping, 

 tips acute, margins fringed. Carpus of second pair five-jointed, first 

 joint three times, and second twice as long as the third or fourth, 

 which are subequal and slightly shorter than the fifth. The telson 

 regularly tapering, the extremity sinuate-trnncate. The exopodite 

 of the sixth pair of pleopoda (abdominal feet) bears on the ex- 

 ternal distal angle of the penultimate joint, an articulated conical 

 black spine, the color persisting in alcohol, and which will readily 

 separate this from any species with which I am acquainted. Its 

 affinities are with A. sulcatus of Panama and Peru. 



Three specimens from Key West, the largest 25 mm. in length. 



Alpheus heterochelis Say. Specimens were collected at Sara- 

 sota Ba}', Charlotte Harbor, Marcou Pass, Harbor Kej*, and at 

 Northampton County, Virginia, Eastern Shore, Atlantic side ; this 

 last being the farthest north from which the species lias been 

 reported. 



Alpheus paekardii, sp. n. Front, antennulae and antennre as in 

 A. heterochelis except that the sulci between the base of the rostrum, 

 and the ocular hoods are deeper, and last joint of antennular pedun- 

 cle longer than in that species. External maxillipeds short, not 

 reaching to the tip of antennal scale. Chelipeds unequal, meros 

 with an acute tooth on the upper distal angle ; larger hand strongly 

 compressed, with a sharp tooth above near the articulation of the 

 dactylus, beyond this the hand becomes narrower by means of a 

 sharp bend of the inferior margin, dactylus contorted, and working 

 at an angle of about 30 with the plane of the hand. Smaller hand 

 more slender, but similarly ornamented and armed, the dactylus, 

 however, being spatulate, working vertically, and with its margins 

 and those of the opposing thumb densely fringed with hairs. Car- 




418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1819. 



pus of the second pair with the first two joints equal, and each as 

 long as the third and fourth together, which, in turn, are subequal, 

 and each slightly shorter than the fifth joint. This species, in a 

 systematic arrangement of the North American forms, would stand 

 between A. heterochelis and A. transversodactylus, but more nearly 

 to the former. The differences from that species are not easy to 

 describe, but are well marked in the specimens. 



1 have dedicated this species to my friend and former instructor, 

 Dr. Aipheus S. Packard, Jr., not only as a token of esteem, but 

 also from a recognition of the appropriateness of the name. Three 

 males from Key West. Length, 22 mm. 



Aipheus candei Guerin in de Sagra's Historia de Cuba Crustaces 

 (p. L. pi. ii. f. 9). Aipheus transversoda.ctylus Kingsle}'. Two spe- 

 cimens were taken at Key West. 



Bes des these species of Aipheus there is a single specimen ap- 

 proaching A. candei most nearly in form, but differing from that 

 species in form of front, and in having a large swollen pyriform 

 hand without grooves, etc., which I hesitate to describe as new. 



o Genus Alope White. 1 Rostrum short, toothed above, and 

 placed in a groove formed by two spines which arise at the ante- 

 rior portion of the carapax, and extend nearly as far as the ros- 

 trum. Eyes but little salient, antennulre biflagellate ; external 

 maxilliped very long ; hands of first pair of pereiopoda equal; 

 carpus of second pair annulate. Type Alope palpalis White. 



Genus Arete Stimpson.' 2 Rostrum short, rounded above; ej'es 

 free, antennuhe biflagellate; antennal scales larger. External 

 maxillipeds slender, moderate; hands of first pair of pereiopoda 

 large, equal, inversely depressed ; dactyli external; second pair 

 short; carpus 4-articulate. Type Arete dorsalis Stm. 



o Genus Athanas Leach. Rostrum short ; antennulse triflagel- 

 late ; eyes but little salient ; external maxillipeds short, slender. 

 Frst pair of pereiopoda long, stout, unequal; second filiform ; car- 

 pus 5 articulate. 



Genus Hippolyte Leach. 3 Rostrum moderate, more or less 



1 Annals and Magazine of Natural History, second series, vol. i. p. 225, 

 1848. 



2 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 1860, p. 32. 



3 Bellidia Gosse. Annals and Magazine of Natural History, 4th series, 

 vol. xx. p. 313 (1877). I have not seen Costa's description of Peridemenes 

 (Annal. del Accad. degli Aspiraz. Natur di Napoli II. p. 285, 1844). Erichson 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA . 419 



ensiform, not articulated to the carapax ; antennulse biflagellate; 

 external maxillipeds slender; first pair of feet short, equal ; second 

 pair slender; carpus multiarticulate. Type Hippolyte spinus 

 (Sowerby sp.). 



Genus Caridion Goes. 1 Rostrum elongate, cult rate ; mandibles 

 with a three-jointed palpus : antennuhe biflagellate ; first two pairs 

 pereiopoda nearly equal, chelate, carpus of the first pair very short; 

 of the second elongate, obsoletely Inarticulate. Type Caridion 

 gordoni (Spence Bate sp.). 



Genus Bythocaris G. 0. Sars. 2 Rostrum very small, simple, 

 unarmed ; antennuhe biflagellate; antennal scale large and broad ; 

 external maxilliped with the last joint dilated, obliquely truncate, 

 and armed with teeth, a minute exognath present. First pair of 

 feet as in Hippolyte; second pair slender, weak; carpus multiar- 

 ticulate. Type Bythocaris simplicirostris G. 0. Sars. 



Genus Cryptocheles G. O. Sars. 3 Rostrum small, narrow, 

 toothed above; antennulse biflagellate; antennal scale large, ex- 

 ternally dentate; last joint of external maxillipeds with the apex 

 somewhat bipartite, a small exognath present. First pair of 

 pereiopoda very short; hand very elongate and attenuate, digits 

 very short, and with difficulty visible ; second pair slender; car- 

 pus 7-jointed. Type Cryptocheles pygmsea G. 0. Sars. 



o Genus Rhynchocinetes M. Edw. Resembling Hippolyte. Ros- 

 trum ensiform, movable, articulated to the carapax; antennulse 

 biflagellate; carpus of second pair of pereiopoda not jointed. 

 Type Rhynchocinetes typus M. Edw. 



Genus Ogyris Stm. 4 Carapax not rostrate, or with rostrum 

 very small, as in the genus Alpheus. Eyes very long; antennuhe 



in the Arcbiv fur Naturgeschichte, 1846, pt. 2, p. 310-811, says that there 

 are no points mentioned by Costa which would not apply to Hippolyte. On 

 the other hand Heller (Crustaceen des siidlichen Europa, p. 2o6, 1863) re- 

 gards one of Da Costa's species (P. elegant) as belonging to the genus An- 

 ehistia of Dana For remarks on the synonymy of Hippolyte and that of 

 Virbius, attention is called to Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad. v. pp. 62 and 63, 

 1879. 



1 (Efversigt af K. Vetensk. Akad. Forhandl. 1863, p. 170. Doryphorus 

 Norman, Ann. et Mag. Nat. Hist. 3d series, viii. p. 276, 1861 mom. prseoc). 



2 G. O. Sars, Saerskiltaftryktaf Vidensk. Selsk. Forhandlinger, p. 5, 1869. 



3 Vidensk. Selsk. Forhandlingar, p. 150, 1868. 



4 Stimpson, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 1860, p. 36. 




420 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



biflagellate, the peduncle with a spine externally on the basal 

 joint; antennal scale shorter than antennal peduncle; mandible 

 with a two-jointed palpus; external maxilliped long, with a slen- 

 der cxognath ; pereiopoda without epipodites ; carpus of the 

 second pair triarticulate. Type Ogyris orientalis Stm. 



Ogyris alphaerostris, sp. n. (Plate xiv. fig. 7.) Carapax smooth, 

 without dorsal carina; rostrum very small, triangular, remind- 

 ing one of that of Alpheus. Eyes resembling those of Hippa, 

 elongate, slender, half as long as the carapax, and extending 

 slightly beyond the antennal peduncles, the cornea but slightly 

 larger than the ocular peduncle. Antennula? with a spine on the 

 outer surface of the basal joint; biflagellate, flagella equal, and 

 about as long as the peduncle. Antennae with the basal scale 

 narrow, lanceolate, reaching nearly to the tip of the penult joint of 

 the peduncle; flagella three times as long as the peduncle, or one 

 and one-half times the length of the carapax. External mallipeds 

 long, stout, the distal joint being very small, and furnished with 

 long hairs, exopodite slender. First pair of pereiopoda slender, 

 chelate; meros, carpus, and hand nearly equal, fingers slightly 

 longer than the palm. Second pair very long, slender, chelate ; 

 carpus triarticulate, hand similar to that of first pair. Third and 

 fourth pairs subequal, slender; the dactyli slender and narrow, 

 being not over one-third the width of the preceding joints. Fifth 

 pair very slender, more so than any of the preceding with the 

 ischium longer than the meros, which in turn is about as long as 

 the three last joints; carpus, propodus, and dactylus subequal. 

 The three last pairs of pereiopoda have long hairs on the distal 

 joints. Abdomen smooth, rounded above; telson short, with the 

 sides arcuate, and the tip rounded. 



Union College, No. 407, Northampton Co., Va., Eastern shore, 

 Atlantic side. H. E. Webster. 



Length 19.5 mm. 



Having but a single specimen, and that in poor condition, I 

 have not been able to study it as thoroughly as I could wish. It 

 agrees, as far as I have been able to examine it, with Stimpson's 

 diagnosis of the genus except in the following particulars. The 

 carapax is not cristate, and has a minute rostrum; the antennal 

 flagella are much longer than in the type species ; the mandibles, 

 as the specimen is unique, I have not been able to examine. It is 

 the second species of the genus known, and is interesting on ac- 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 421 



count of its habitat; the other species, 0. orientalis Stm., coming 

 from China and Japan. 



Genus Pterocaris Heller. 1 Carapax and abdominal segments 

 broadly expanded at the sides. These expansions lamellate and 

 three-lobed, corresponding one to the antennal segments, one to 

 the mandibular, and the third to the abdominal segments. Eyes 

 small, just visible in front of carapax; antennulse biflagcllate ; 

 antennae with basal scale; external maxillipeds with exopodite 

 and rudimentary epipodite. Type P. typica Heller. 



Section II. Mandibles without a Palpus. 



Genus Autonomea Risso. 2 Rostrum short, eyes prominent, 

 antennulie biflagcllate, antennal scale wanting. First pair of pere- 

 iopoda stout, chelate ; second not chelate ; carpus not annulate. 

 Type Autonomea olivii. 



o Genus Virbius Stimpson 3 Dorsum of carapax and rostrum 

 ecarinate ; antennulae biflagellate; antennal scale present. Ex- 

 ternal maxillipeds short, with exopodite. Pereiopoda without 

 epipodites. Carpus of first pair of pereiopoda excavate in front; 

 carpus of the second pair triarticulate. T3'pe Virbius acuminatus 

 (Dana sp.). 



Sub-genus Thor Kingsley.* Rostrum short ; antennulae, an- 

 tenna?, and external mallipeds as in Virbius. Carpus of first pair 

 of pereiopoda not excavate ; carpus of second pair 5-articulate. 

 Type Thor floridanus Kingsley. 



Thor floridanus Kingsle} r . (PI. xiv. fig. 6.) Specimens were 

 collected by Professor H. E. Webster at Harbor Key and Sarasota 

 Ba}', Florida. 



1 Sitzungsberichte der k. Akad. Wissenschaft. Wien. XLV. pt. i. p. 395, 

 pi. i. f. 7-18 (1862). 



2 I take the fact that the mandible of Autonomea is without a palpus from 

 Heller (Crust. Siidlichen Europa, p. 223), though in his generic diagnosis on 

 p. 2-49 he makes no mention of the mandible, but takes his description from 

 Desmarest. Heller had never seen specimens of this genus. Risso (Crust. 

 Nice, pp. 1(56-169, 1816) does not mention the mandibles. 



3 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 1860, p. 35. For remarks on this 

 genus, vid. Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad. v. p. 62, 1879. Garadina tenuvroa- 

 tris Spence Bate, Proc. Zool. Soc'y, London, 1863, p. 501, pi. xl. f. 4, from 

 Australia, belongs to this genus. 



4 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 1878, p. 94. 




422 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



Sub-Family Pandalinse. 



Antennulse biflagellate, mandibles with a palpus, anterior pere- 

 iopoda very slender, not chelate ; second filiform chelate ; carpus 

 multiarticulate. 



o Genus Pandalus Leach. 1 Type Pandalus montagui Leach. 



Sub Family Palaemoninae. 



Two anterior pairs of pereiopoda chelate ; carpus of none annu- 

 late ; second pair larger than the first, pereiopoda without palpi. 



Section I. Mandibles without a palpus. 



A. Antennulse biflagellate. 



Genus Typton Costa.' 2 Rostrum small, eyes free, antennal scale 

 absent, external maxillipeds pediform, with exognath. Type 

 Typton spongioid Costa. 



o Genus Pontonia Latreille. Rostrum short, ej'es prominent, 

 antennulse with the outer flagellum bifid at the extremity; anten- 

 nal scale moderate. External maxillipeds suboperculiform with 

 exognath; second joint broad, longer than remaining joints to- 

 gether, these last cylindrical. Type Pontonia custos (Forskal sp.). 

 Guerin. Pontonia tyrrhena (Risso sp.) Latreille. 



Pontonia unidens, sp. n. (PI. xiv. f. 9.) Carapax pubescent, 

 depressed ; rostrum short, acute, slightly depressed, not extend- 

 ing as far forward as the eyes ; orbital spine present though small ; 

 cervical suture well marked; eyes stout, reaching the last joint 

 of the antennular peduncle. Antennulse with the joints of the 

 peduncle sub-equal ; the flagella very short, not as long as the 

 peduncle. Antennal scale about twice as long as broad, ex- 

 tremity rounded and reaching to the last joint of antennular pe- 



1 Pontophilus Risso, Hist. Nat. Europe Merid. t. v. p. 63, 1826 ; Brandt 

 in MiddendorfFs Reise in den Ausseisten Nordeii uud Osten Siberiens, 

 Bd. ii. Theil i. p. 122, 1851. 



2 Annali dell' Acad. Segli Aspir. Natur di Napoli ii. 1844 (Teste Heller). 

 Pontonella Heller, Verbandlungen des Zool. Bot. Verein in Wein, 1836, 

 p. 624. Rev. A. M. Norman (Aim. and Mag. Nat. Hist. IV. ii. p. 176, 

 1868) compares this genus with AlpJieus. It is far more nearly related to 

 Pontonia. Its resemblance to Antonomea, in the absence of the antennal 

 scale, was noticed by Heller. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 423 



d uncle. First pair of pereiopoda slender, longer than the cara- 

 pax ; meros, carpus, and hand nearly equal, the fingers half as 

 long as the palm. Second pair of feet unequal ; larger hand 

 inflated, longer than the carapax, pubescent; fingers one third 

 the length of the palm, incurved and slightly depressed ; the dac- 

 tylus with a large obtuse tooth near the base, which fits into a cor- 

 responding cavit}' in the pollex (as in many species of Alpheus); 

 pollex without teeth. Smaller hand three-fourths as long as the 

 larger, cylindrical straight fingers one-third as long as the palm. 

 Remaining pereiopoda moderate, minutely unguiculate. Telson 

 about twice as long as broad, sides strongly arcenate. 



Key West, Fla., A. S. Packard, Jr. 



Length 10 mm. 



This species differs from P. domestica Gibbes in the pubescence 

 of the carapax and hands, and in having but one tooth on the 

 dactylus of the larger hand of the second pair and none on the 

 thumb, etc. etc. It may prove to be the Pontonia mexicana of 

 Guerin-Meneville in Ramen de la Sagra's Historia fisica, politica 

 y natural de la Isla de Cuba, 1856. The types are in the Museum 

 of the Peabody Academy of Science at Salem, Mass. None were 

 collected by Prof. Webster. 



Genus Coralliocaris Stm. 1 Rostrum small; eyes large and 

 prominent; antennal scale very broad ; external maxillipeds oper- 

 culiform ; all the joints of nearly equal width; second pair of 

 pereiopoda large, long, subequal ; dactyli of posterior pairs with 

 a protuberance on the under side near the base. Type Corallio- 

 caris superbus Dana, sp. 



Genus Harpilius Dana. 2 Closety allied to Pontonia, but differ- 

 ing in having the distal joints of the external maxillipeds together 

 longer than the second "joint ; second pair of pereiopoda long, 

 slender, equal. T} r pe Harpilius lutescens Dana. 



Genus Anchistia Dana. 3 Rostrum long, slender, frequently 

 ensiform ; eyes prominent; antennulae with one flagellum partly 

 bifid ; extenal maxillipeds slender, pediform ; second pair of pe- 



1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 1860, p. 38. (Edipus Dana, U. S. 

 Ex. Ex. Crust., p. 572, 1851 (nom. prseoc). 



2 Op. cit., p. 574, 1851. 



3 Op. cit., p. 577 (1851), Pelias Roux, Memoire sur le Salicoques, p. 25 

 (1831). Heller, Sitzungsber. der K. Akad. Wiss. Wien, xlv. pt. 1, p. 406 

 (1862), non Merrian (1820). 




424 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



reiopoda slender, long, equal ; dactyli of posterior pairs long, 

 slender, nearly straight. Type Anchistia gracilis Dana. 



B. Antennulae triflao-ellate. 



Genus EuRYHYNCHUsMiers. 1 " Rostrum triangular, broad at base, 

 acute, very short, barely reaching the extremity of the eyes ; 

 anterior margin of carapax with a small spine between the eyes 

 and the rostrum and another below the point of insertion of the 

 peduncle of the antennae; antennae with a small basal scale; an- 

 tennuhe triflagellate ; outer maxillipeds slender, second pair of 

 legs nearly as in Anchistia; tarsi of last three pairs of legs nearly 

 straight, acute." Type E. wrzesnowski Miers. 



I am uncertain as to the exact position of this genus, as the 

 author says nothing concerning the mandibles. There also exist 

 several discrepancies between the description and figures (Plate 

 lxvii. f. 2-2 a). The spine on the anterior margin being repre- 

 sented as external to the eyes, and the first pair of feet being the 

 larger, winch, if true, would remove it to the Alpheinse, from all 

 genera of which, however, it is separated bj r the triflagellate an- 

 tennuhe. Miers compares it with Anchistia and Harpilius, and 

 in that locality I allow it to remain. 



Genus Paljemonetes Heller. 2 Antennae, antennulae, and pere- 

 iopoda as in Palsemon ; carapax with antennal and branchioste- 

 gal spines, hepatic spine wanting ; rostrum long, lamellate. Type 

 Palsemonetes varians (Leach, sp.). 



Paleemonetes carolinus Stm. Specimens were collected by Prof. 

 Webster at Beaufort, N. C, and Marcou Pass, Fla. 



Palsemonetes vulgaris (Say, sp.), Stm. Beaufort, N. C., North- 

 ampton Co., Va., and Charlotte Harbor, Fla. 



o Genus Urocaris Stm. 3 Body slender, compressed; rostrum 

 cristate and toothed above, beneath straight, and edentulous; ocu- 

 lar peduncles long ; abdomen slender, elongate, the sixth segment 

 very much so. Type Urocaris longieaudata Stm. 



Urocaris longieaudata Stm. (1. c, p. 39.). As Stimpson's de- 

 scription is very short, and as this species has not been noticed by 

 subsequent writers, I append a short description, based upon speci- 



1 Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London, 1877, p. 662. 



2 Zeitschrift ftir Wissenschaftliche Zoologie, xix. p. 157. 



3 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 1860, p. 39. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 425 



mens collected by Prof. Webster at Beaufort, N. C, Marcou Pass, 

 and Charlotte Harbor, Fla. Only four specimens were obtained, 

 two male and two female. 



Rostrum compressed, not reaching the extremit}^ of the anten- 

 nular peduncles; above arcuate, with seven or eight teeth, the 

 second of which is directly above the insertion of the eyes; an- 

 tennal scale large, extending be}'ond the antennular peduncle, 

 the sides parallel, the extremity obliquely rounded, truncate; 

 first pair of pereiopoda reaching the tip of the antennal scale, 

 the second longer, the fingers of each about as long as the palm, 

 remaining feet bi-unguiculate, all very slender and almost filiform; 

 abdomen between four and five times the length of the carapax ; 

 third segment (and sometimes the fourth also) of the abdomen 

 swollen, fifth short, sixth about the length of the carapax; telson 

 slender, elongate, sides straight, regularly tapering to the acute 

 tip. The female appears to be rather stouter than the male. 

 Length 15.5-20 mm. 



&' 



Section II. Mandibles with a Palpus. 



A. Antennulae biflagellate. 



Genus Pal^emonella Dana. 1 Body not depressed ; rostrum 

 moderate; eyes of medium size; mandibular palpus two-jointed, 

 very short; antennulae biflagellate, one flagellum with the apex 

 bifid ; external maxillipeds slender, pediform. Type Palemonella 

 tenuipes Dana. 



o Genus Hymenocera Latreille. Antennulae biflagellate, one 

 flagellum membranous, dilated, and foliaceous ; first pair of pe- 

 reiopoda very slender, hand minute, second stouter, very broad, 

 hand and dactylus membranous. 



B. Antennulae triflagellate. 



Genus Pal^emon Fabr. 2 Rostrum lamellate, dentate; eves 

 free; mandibles with a three-jointed palpus; external maxilli- 

 peds slender. Type Paleemon squilla (Linne, sp.). 



1 U. S. Expl. Exped. Crust., p. 582. 



2 Leander, Desmarest, Annales Socicte Entomologique de France, vii. p. 

 87, 1849. Bithynis, Philippi, Arcliiv fur Naturgeschiehte, xxvi. pt. 1, pp. 

 161-164 (1860). Macrobrachium, Spence Bate, Proc. Zool. Soc'y London, 

 1868, p. 363. 



28 




420 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



Genus Crypiiiops Dana. 1 Rostrum of medium size ; eyes wholly 

 hidden under the earapax, as in Alpheus ; external maxillipeds 

 slender. Type Gryphiops spinulosimanus Dana. 



Sub-Family Oplophorinae. 



First pair of pereiopoda either didactyle or vergiform, second 

 stouter, chelate; antennulae biflagellate. 



Genus Oplophorus M. Edw. Rostrum long, dentate, pereio- 

 poda all palpigerous ; four anterior chelate ; antennal scale with 

 the external margin spined ; abdomen armed above with one or 

 more long spiniform ])rocesses. Type Oplophorus typus M. Edw. 



Genus Caulurus Stm. 2 Rostrum long or short ; basal scale of 

 antennulae wanting : basal scale of antennae externally unarmed ; 

 external maxillipeds pediform, with exognath ;' pereiopoda fur- 

 nished with exopodite, the first two pairs chelate, the second pair 

 slender and long ; dorsum of abdomen unarmed ; sixth abdominal 

 segment long and slender. Type Caulurus pelagicus Stm. 



As there is nothing except the length of the rostrum to sepa- 

 rate Xi])hoca?'is from Caulurus, I have thought best to unite 

 them. Xiphocaris has but a single species, Hippolyte elonyata 

 Guerin = Oplophorus Americanus Saussure. 



Genus Thalassiocaris Stm. 3 Rostrum and antennulaa as in 

 Oplophorus. Feet not palpigerus, anterior pair not chelate ; se- 

 cond pair stout, chelate ; mandibular palpus triarticulate ; third 

 segment of abdomen prolonged into a long spine above. Type 

 Thalassiocaris lucidus (Dana, sp.). 



Family PEN^JIDiE. 



Genus Sicyonia Edw., Stm. 



Sicyonia laevigata Stm. A single specimen of this species 

 was collected at Sarasota Bay, Fla. 

 Sicyonia carinata M. Edw. 



Palcemon carinatus Olivier, Encyclopedic Methodique, viii. p. 667 (teste 

 Edw.). 



' Op. cit., p. 594. 



2 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 1860, p. 42. Xiphocaris, E. von 

 Martens, Archiv fur Naturgeschichte, xxxviii. Bd. i. p. 139 (1872). 



3 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 1860, p. 42. Regulus, Dana, op. 

 cit., p. 597 (nomen prseoccupatum). 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 427 



Sicyonia carinata M. Edw., Hist. Nat. Crust., ii. p. 410. Dana, U. S. 

 Ex. Ex. Crust., p. 602. Smith, Trans. Conn. Acad., ii. p. 40. Von 

 Martens, Archiv fur Naturgesch. xxxviii. p. 142. 



Of this species, which is reported from Rio Janeiro by Edwards 

 and Dana, and from Cuba by von Martens, two specimens were 

 collected by Prof. Webster, one at Sarasota Bay and the other at 

 Charlotte Harbor. 



Genus Peneus Fabr. 



Peneus constrictus Stm. A single specimen was collected at 

 Marcou Pass. 



Peneus braziliensis Latreille. From Beaufort, N. C, Marcou 

 Pass, Charlotte Harbor, and Sarasota Bay, Fla. I would here 

 say that the specimens described by me as Peneus brevirostris 

 (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 1878), from the west coast of 

 Nicaragua, prove to be P. braziliensis, thus adding another to 

 the list of species common to both coasts. 



In my " List of Decapod Crustacea of the Atlantic Coast, 

 whose range embraces Fort Macon" (Proceedings Philadelphia 

 Academy, 1878, pp. 316-330), I enumerated sixty-five species, of 

 which fiftj'-three had at that time been reported from Fort Macon. 

 In this paper six more of these species are reported from there, 

 while Poly onyx macrocheles, Lepidops venusta, Hippolysmata 

 wurdemanni, and Concordia gibberosa, which were not enumerated 

 in my list, were found there by Prof. Webster, and Ogyris alphx- 

 rosh'is, from its near locality, may reasonably be expected there. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE. 



Fig. 1. Mithraculus hirsutipes ; la. Antennal region. 



Fig 2. Pisosoma glabra. 



Fig. 3. Eupilumnus websteri ; 3a. External maxilliped. 



Fig. 4. Euceramus pr Belong us ; 4a. External maxilliped. 46. 

 Telson. 



Fig. 5. Concordia gibberosa. 



Fig. 6. Thor floridanus ; 6a. Antennula. 66. Mandible. 



Fig. 7. Ogyris alphserostris. 



Fig. 8. Tozeuma carolinensis. 



Fig. 9. Pontonia unidens ; larger hand outside; 9a. Ditto in- 

 side. 




428 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



December 2. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-six persons present. 



December 9. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Fifty persons present. 



A paper entitled "Description of a Foetal Walrus," by Harri- 

 son Allen, M.D., was presented for publication. 



Complete Connection of the Fissura Centralis (Fiss. of Ro- 

 lando) with the Fossa Sylvii. Dr. A. J. Parker stated that Dr. 

 Chas. K. Mills had lately observed, while examining the brain of 

 a white person, that the central fissure ran complete^ into the 

 fossa Sylvii without any bridging convolution being found present. 

 The fissura centralis, as it exists in the higher primates, begins at 

 the upper border of the hemisphere, and extends obliquely down- 

 wards and forwards, terminating above the Sylvian, so that we 

 find an arched convolution surrounding its lower end and com- 

 pletely separating it from the Sylvian fissure. In 18(56, however, 

 Turner reported a case (Edinburgh Medical Journal, 1866) in which 

 he found this fissure joining the Sylvian. This appears to be, up 

 to that time, the only recorded case. Ecker, in speaking of this 

 observation (Cerebral Convolutions of Man, trans, by R. T. Edes, 

 M.D., 18*73), says : "I have not yet seen a complete opening of 

 the central furrow into the fissura Sylvii of which Turner speaks;" 

 and Bischoff goes so far as to affirm (Die Grrosshirnwindungen des 

 Menschen, etc., Abhand. der k. bair. Akad. der Wissenschaften 

 Miinchen, 1868), that the central fissure bends with its upper end 

 gradually backwards, but it remains closed at its upper and lower 

 end, and never opens into the fossa Sylvii. In the Proc. of Acad- 

 emy of Nat. Sciences Phila., 1878, Dr. Parker has reported a case 

 similar to those observed by Prof. Turner and Dr. Mills, a photo- 

 graph of which was exhibited ; so that we have now at least three 

 well-authenticated cases in which this relation of the two fissures 

 referred to above existed. Bischoff objects to the observation of 

 Turner on account of its disagreement with certain views in re- 

 gard to the morphology of the cerebral convolutions which he ad- 

 vances in the paper referred to above. He considers that "a large 

 number of the convolutions of the great hemisphere are arranged 

 around the ends of the primary furrows in more or less simple or 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 429 



complicated arches." The primary fissures, according to him, are 

 the anterior and posterior branches of the fossa Sylvii ; the fissura 

 centralis or fissure of Rolando, fissura perpendicularis interna or 

 parietooccipital fissure, fissura parallela or superior temporal 

 fissure, and the fissura hippocampi. This latter fissure of Bischoff 

 corresponds to Gratiolet's fissure des hippocampes. and includes 

 both the fissura hippocampi and the fissura calcarina of other 

 writers. The type is expressed, according to Bischoff, by these 

 fissures, and the development of the convolutions consists merely 

 of arched windings surrounding the ends of these primary fur- 

 rows, and the further development of the convolutions arises in 

 fact through the stronger development, bending backwards and 

 forwards, rising and sinking of the lobules around the above-named 

 furrows. Through this process there arise secondary folds and 

 fissures, side convolutions and connections and separations of in- 

 dividual convolutions. The same, says Bischoff, may be different 

 on the two sides of the same brain and in different individuals, 

 the ground forms being, therefore, more or less hidden, but we 

 can recognize them easily in all brains. He hopes, however, that 

 it will soon be possible to explain and make intelligible these in- 

 dividual modifications. There are, however, convolutions which, 

 as Bischoff remarks, do not appear to be in unison with this type, 

 such as the first and second frontal and the convolutions of the 

 occipital and temporal lobes. For these Bischoff says that he can 

 find no particular plan on which they may be based. They arise 

 one after the other, and become more and more complex, as it 

 appears, from purely mechanical necessities of the surface increas- 

 ing in a definite space. In tnis manner arise the first and second 

 frontal fissures, the second temporal, fissura collateralis, etc., and 

 their bordering convolutions. Thus, in the frontal lobe, Bischoff 

 points out two upper frontal convolutions, and a third or inferior 

 arching around the ascending branch of the fossa Sylvii. In the 

 frontal lobe an anterior and a posterior central winding arching 

 around the upper and lower extremities of the fissura centralis. 

 Posterior to these, at the upper border of the hemisphere and ex- 

 tending; over on to the mesial surface, a superior internal parietal 

 group of convolutions (obere innere Scheitelgruppe) correspond- 

 ing to the lobulus parietalis superior and precuneus. Besides 

 these, Bischoff points out five so-called arched parietal convolu- 

 tions. A first or anterior parietal arched convolution (erste oder 

 vordere Scheitelbogenwindung) surrounding the upper extremity 

 of the horizontal branch of the fossa Sylvii. A second or middle 

 (zweite oder mittlere Scheitelbogenwindung) surrounding the up- 

 per extremity of the superior temporal fissure. Posterior to these 

 a third smaller arched convolution which curves around the upper 

 end of the fissura temporalis media, the dritte Scheitelbogenwin- 

 dung. He admits, indeed, that the arrangement of these arched 

 convolutions is very variable and manifold, and therefore the 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



appearance of these arches is not always easily discerned. He also 

 distinguishes a superior internal (obere innere oder vierte Scheitel- 

 bogenwindung) surrounding the upper extremity of the fissura per- 

 pendicularis interna. This corresponds with the pli de passage 

 superieur externe, Gratiolet, gyrus occipitalis primus, Ecker ; 

 oberer Zug der^iintern Central windung (in part), Huschke ; erste 

 obere Hinterlappenwindung, Wagner, first external annectent gy- 

 rus, Huxley; first bridging annectent or connecting g\~rus, Turner. 

 An inferior internal (untere innere oder fiinfte, Scheitelbogenwin- 

 dung) surrounding the lower extremity of the fissura perpendicu- 

 laris interna. This corresponds with the pli de passage interne 

 inferieur of Gratiolet; gyrus cunei of Ecker. The existence of a 

 pli de passage interne superieur is not admitted by Bischoff, who 

 considers that this convolution is homologous with the pli de pas- 

 sage superieur externe. Ecker dissents from this vievv of the 

 case, and the speaker had attempted to show in a previous com- 

 munication (Plis de passage in the Primates, Proc Acad. Nat. 

 Sciences, Philadelphia, 1878) that at least in certain cases Bischoff 

 is correct. In the occipital lobe Bischoff distinguishes three con- 

 volution groups, an outer upper, the so-called ounus, and two 

 lower, an internal superior (lobulus lingualis), and an external in- 

 ferior (lobulus fusiformis). In the temporal lobe Bischoff" does 

 not differ in his divisions from previous writers. 



The observations referred to at the beo-inninor of this communi- 

 cation in reference to the union of the central and Sylvian fissures 

 is not in accordance with the views of Bischoff, at least in the ab- 

 solute manner in which he proposes them ; and that he considers 

 the presence of these arching convolutions around the ends of the 

 primary furrows as absolutely essential, is shown by his criticism 

 of Turner's observation referred to above, and also of Dr. Rol- 

 leston's observations on the premier pli de passage. In seven 

 human brains examined by Dr. Rolleston in reference to the de- 

 velopment and character of this convolution, he found it in one 

 case entirely wanting on one side. Bischoff regards this as an 

 error, stating that this is a very typical and characteristic convo- 

 lution, which, according to his view can never and will never be 

 found wanting where deep and extensive anomalies in brain de- 

 velopment have not taken place. 



In conclusion, he could but repeat the opinion of Ecker, "what 

 Bischoff says is also perfectly correct, that a large number of the 

 convolutions of the cerebral hemisphere are arranged around the 

 ends of the primary furrows in more or less simple or compli- 

 cated arches; and it cannot be otherwise, for the ranges of moun- 

 tains inclosing a valley must necessarily pass into each other 

 where the valley ends, but no special explanation seems to be 

 thereby disclosed." 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 431 



December 16. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Fifty-seven persons present. 



December 23. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Seventy-two persons present. 



December 30. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 One hundred and ninety persons present. 



The following reports were read and referred to the Publication 

 Committee : 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



REPORT OF THE PRESIDENT FOR THE YEAR 

 ENDING NOVEMBER 30, 1879. 



The history of the Academy for the year ending Nov. 30, 1879, 

 is not very remarkable. It may be briefly stated. 



The Academy offered, Feb. 1879, to receive on deposit the col- 

 lections made by the second geological survey of the State of 

 Pennsylvania; and asked the Legislature to appropriate money 

 towards enlargement of the building for the purpose of affording 

 ample space for the display of a distinct collection of specimens 

 illustrative of all departments of the natural history of Pennsyl- 

 vania, including those of the geological surveys. It is believed 

 that a separate museum of the kind proposed would be attractive 

 and interesting to visitors generally, as well as instructive. It 

 would ultimately become an objective representation of all the 

 natural resources of the State, and possibly suggestive of new 

 applications of them in the industrial arts, and at the same time 

 tend to enhance in public estimation the value of the study of the 

 natural sciences. 



All the members of the Legislature were invited to visit the 

 institution in the evening of April 25th. Several of those who 

 were present at this reception expressed opinions favorable to 

 granting the petition of the Academy; but the Legislature finally 

 adjourned without acting upon it. 



A proposition to amend the by-laws, made May 6th, was unani- 

 mously rejected Oct. 28th. 



Experience has demonstrated that the ordinary income of the 

 Society is very much less than the amount of its necessary ex- 

 penses. After due consideration of the subject by the council it 

 was proposed to ask contributions from members and others 

 towards the creation of a maintenance or working fund of sufficient 

 amount to supply at least current deficiencies. 



A committee of forty members was appointed, Sept. 16th, by 

 the President, under authority of the Academy, to solicit contri- 

 butions. The committee met, organized, and issued a circular in 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 433 



which reasons for the appeal ore stated. Several subscriptions 

 have been received and promised, making an aggregate of about 

 $3000, or about one-twentieth of the amount considered to be 

 necessary. 



The financial condition of the Academy is fully stated in the 

 report of the Treasurer. 



Two young men have been recipients of the benefits of the 

 Jessup Fund, one during the entire year, and the other for nine 

 months. The application of this fund has been so beneficent in 

 the past as to suggest that additional scholarships or fellowships 

 of the same kind would contribute largely to the general progress 

 of the natural sciences in this community. 



The extent of increase of the museum and of the library, and 

 their condition, are stated in the annual reports of the curators 

 and the librarian. 



The annual reports of the several sections of the Academ}' in- 

 dicate that they are active and prosperous. 



The Biological and Microscopical section gave a public reception 

 on the first Monday of April, and a second on the first Monday 

 of November. The Entomological section participated in the last. 

 It is estimated that more than two thousand ladies and gentle- 

 men were present at each reception, and all seemed pleased. 

 Receptions of the kind are believed to be advantageous to the 

 general interests of the Societ % y. 



The average attendance at the meetings has been 32; the most 

 numerous, Feb. 4, 109, and the least, July 15 and August 26, 14. 



Although well known to the few old members still living, it 

 may be well on this occasion to recall part of the old story of the 

 foundation of the Academy. 



All the founders and early members were not at the time 

 masters, or even advanced students, in any department of natural 

 history. They were, generally speaking, young men whose liveli- 

 hood depended upon the profits of their daily avocations men 

 who, though possibly not qualified to be professors, were learned 

 enough to discern that they might lessen their own ignorance of 

 natural things by employing their leisure together, in a joint way 

 to learn what others already knew, and possibly add something 

 to the common stock of knowledge. 



The first formal meeting for organization, January 25, 1812, is 

 recorded as a " meeting of gentlemen, friends of science and of 




434 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



rational disposal of leisure moments." At a subsequent meeting 

 the association is described as "a society of generous, ffood-willim> 

 emulation for the acquirement, increase, simplification and diffu- 

 sion of natural knowledge." 



During the earliest 3'ears of the Society the members were often 

 entertained at the meetings by some one, previously appointed, 

 reading about some natural history subject, selected from a pub- 

 lished book or essay, which was discussed after the reading. Such 

 proceedings imply that mutual improvement was one of the objects 

 of the association. 



For the reason that the founders and first members regarded 

 themselves to be learners they called their Society an Academy, 

 meaning a school, the word being derived according to lexico- 

 graphers from AxaSj^oj, the name of an Athenian citizen whose 

 house was converted into a school in which Plato taught. 



The general policy of the organization included the idea of 

 securing "the greatest good to the greatest number," and that all 

 should cheerfully and sincerely co-operate to promote the welfare 

 of the Society according to the ascertained views of the majority. 

 March 21, 1812, the Society consisted of the six founders. In 

 the minutes of the meeting of that day they say, "unless we be 

 faithful and honorable to each other, and zealous for the interests 

 of science, such an establishment as we desire may never take 

 place." 



The qualifications for membership were friendliness to science 

 and good moral reputation and nothing more. To this day can- 

 didates are not required to possess an}' other qualifications. 

 Membership of this Academy does not, nor was it ever intended 

 to, imply any kind or degree of scientific attainment, any more 

 than membership of a building association implies mechanical 

 skill in any department of construction t>r house building. 



There are societies whose certificate of membership is, in public 

 estimation, at the same time a certificate of scientific attainments. 

 The Academy cannot be properly classed with such societies, nor 

 is there any conclusive reason why it should aspire to be, or to 

 compete with institutions established on different principles or 

 for different purposes. 



The co-operative principle seems to have been recognized by the 

 founders. They began at once to collect materials for a museum, 

 and books for a library, to the use of which all the members were 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 435 



equally entitled, subject only to such restrictions as were con- 

 sidered necessary for their preservation. 



From the formation of the society to the present time, its policy 

 has been based on such principles, and to those principles it owes 

 much of its substantial prosperity and present condition. 



Original research was not the sole object of the societ}^, nor was 

 it ever designed that the society should be composed exclusively 

 of masters in science, specialists, or experts. Members worthy to 

 be so entitled are most desired and honored, most beneficial to the 

 Soeiet}', and most deserving to be aided in all reasonable ways, 

 in the use of its accumulated means and facilities of study, not in 

 conflict with the rights which are alike and equally common 

 to all members, learned and unlearned. No part of the museum 

 or library can be held in reserve for the exclusive use of any class 

 of specialists. 



The purposes of the Academy are, and always have been : 



1st. To aid and encourage those who may labor to increase 

 knowledge of natural objects, and of the laws under which they 

 exist. 



2d. To encourage and aid novitiates in natural science. 



3d. To diffuse knowledge resulting from original researches, 

 among the votaries of natural science everywhere. 



4th. To render knowledge of the natural sciences generally 

 attractive and interesting to the public. 



The purpose first named, to encourage original investigations, 

 is manifest in the free access to the museum and library, given to 

 specialists who may desire to use those sources of information in 

 their studies, and in the publication of the results of their labors 

 when desired. This sort of encouragement is not restricted to 

 members of the society. Publishing discoveries made elsewhere, 

 or by others than members of the Society, is no discredit to the 

 liberality of the Academy, and is surely not calculated to impede 

 original research. 



The purpose placed second, to encourage and aid novitiates, is 

 realized by instructing them individually, and pointing out to 

 them approved methods of study in order that they may become 

 qualified to engage profitably in original investigations. The 

 many beneficiaries of the Jessup Fund bear witness to the benefi- 

 cent influences of the Academy under this head. They compensate 

 the institution for the benefits it confers by the work they do for 




436 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



it under the direction of the curators, and by becoming under its 

 auspices practical, working naturalists. 



The importance of this purpose lies in the fact that initiatory 

 training and elementary instruction are indispensable to the 

 attainment of the highest grades of learning. 



The third named purpose, to diffuse knowledge, is carried out 

 by publishing a Journal, and the Proceedings of the Academy. 

 The Journal now consists of eight octavo and seven quarto vol- 

 umes : the fourth part of the eighth volume is in preparation. 

 The " Proceedings of the Academy" numbers thirty-one 8vo vol- 

 umes. During the year 385 pages have been printed. 



The entomological section of the Academy has published during 

 the year, more than two hundred pages of original matter, result- 

 ing from the researches of members of the section and others. 

 Their printing has been done by members of the section in the 

 hall of the Academy. 



It is proper to mention in this connection, "The Natural His- 

 toiy of the Agricultural Ant of Texas," a monograph of the 

 habits and architecture of Pogononrvrmex barbatus, by Henry 

 Christopher McCook, a member of the society, which has been 

 issued with the imprint and under the auspices of the Academy. 

 It is an octavo volume of 310 pages, illustrated by 24 plates. 



Also the " Manual of Conchology, Structural and Systematic, 

 with illustrations of the species," by George W. Try on, Jr., con- 

 servator of the conchological section of the Academy, published 

 by the author, and issued from the Academy. The first volume 

 has appeared during the year. It is an octavo volume of 316 

 pages, illustrated by 112 plates, embracing 671 figures skilfully 

 drawn by Dr. Edward J. Nolan, who is the Librarian and Record- 

 ing Secretary of the Society. 



Mr. Herman Strecker, of Reading, Pa., a member of the 

 Academy, has published an octavo volume of 284 pages on the 

 " Butterflies and Moths of North America," in the composition of 

 which, he found valuable facilities in the library of the Academy. 

 In the preface of his work he says : " I shall never forget, when 

 a little boy, how my heart bounded, when one day Professor 

 Joseph Leidy took me into the basement of the Philadelphia 

 Academy of Natural Sciences, and pointing to the books on en- 

 tomology, told me I had permission to examine their contents." 



The " Chronological History of Plants," a posthumous work 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 437 



by Dr. Charles Pickering, was published at Boston, in May, 1879. 

 It is a quarto volume of 1222 pages. The work is conspicuous on 

 account of the immense erudition and industry displayed by the 

 author. It will ever stand an enduring monument significant of 

 the respect due to his memory. 



This volume is mentioned here because Dr. Pickering was a 

 diligent student in the Academy, and served it efficient^ and very 

 constantly during eleven years, from the early part of 1827 till 

 the middle of 1838. His studies in this Academy contributed 

 largely to qualify him to deserve the very high position he at- 

 tained in the scientific world. 



Gratuitous labor has produced all the matter published by the 

 Academy and its entomological section ; and probably the authors 

 of the volumes named have little hope of pecuniary profit from 

 their work. 



The fourth named purpose : to render knowledge of the natural 

 sciences attractive and interesting. 



During many years the students of all medical colleges in the 

 city have been freely admitted to the museum on exhibiting their 

 matriculating tickets to the janitor. Annual complimentary tick- 

 ets have been issued to the teachers of the public schools, who are 

 authorized to bring with them at each visit, a limited number of 

 their pupils. The museum is accessible to all persons every day 

 except Sunday, on the payment of an admission fee of ten cents. 

 The amount received on this account indicates that the museum 

 has been visited by 3540 persons besides members and those in- 

 troduced by them. 



Summaries of the proceedings of the Academy are published in 

 the newspapers. They are supposed to be generally interesting. 



In the ways indicated the several purposes of the institution 

 are carried out, it is believed, with considerable success. 



The sections afford opportunity to those having like pursuits 

 and congenial tastes to work together, and are useful in their in- 

 fluence on the general interests of the society. It is not perceived 

 that they are in any way detrimental to scientific progress. 



The by-law of May, 1876, which authorizes the appointment of 

 professors is inoperative, because the endowments for their sup- 

 port, which were hoped for at the time, have not been made, and 

 because candidates have not applied for the positions. 



In spite of the lack of professors, the Academy is reasonably 




4,38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



prosperous. It is free from debt. It has a substantial home and 

 land enough upon which to extend it. It has a large and excel- 

 lent library adapted to its purposes, and large collections of natu- 

 ral objects, many of which have not been studied. It is conjec- 

 tured that the library and museum cannot be duplicated at this 

 time by the expenditure of half a million of dollars. 



Among its members are some who are conspicuous for attain- 

 ments, and for the discoveries they have made ; many who ai*e 

 skilful specialists, and very many more who are availing them- 

 selves so diligently of the facilities which the Academy affords 

 that there is ground to hope that when those who are now held in 

 the highest estimation shall have passed away, their places will 

 be filled by men as great or even greater than they are now be- 

 lieved to be. 



Notwithstanding the general character of its membership, and 

 the unpretentious methods and policy which it has followed in the 

 past, there are associated with the Academy some among those 

 who have died, whose names are widely known and respected on 

 account of the positions they attained in science. We may name 

 for examples, Charles L. Bonaparte, John Cassin, Edward Hal- 

 lowell, Wm. M. Gabb, Richard Harlan, Charles A. Leseur, James 

 Aitken Meigs, Samuel George Morton, Thomas Nuttall, George 

 Ord, Charles Pickering, Thomas Say, and Gerard Troost ; and 

 others might be added who in their.day were worthy and respected 

 on account of their attainments, and their contributions to scien- 

 tific progress. 



There is no substantial reason to mourn now on account of the 

 present condition or the future prospects of the Academy. 



The whole is submitted, 



W. S. W. R.USCHENBERGER. 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



The Recording Secretary respectfully reports that during the 

 .year ending Nov. 30, 1879, twenty-three members and eight cor- 

 respondents have been elected. 



The resignations of the following members have been received: 

 Wm. Thompson, R. H. Day, C. P. Nancrede, J. S. Alexander, 

 Frank Woodbury, Jos. Neumann, Thos. Stewardson, S. W. Penny- 

 packer, and S. H. Guildford. 




< 



1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 439 



The names of nineteen members and three correspondents who 

 have died during the year, have been recorded in the Proceedings 

 under the date of announcement. 



Twenty-two papers have been presented for publication, as fol- 

 lows : John A. Ryder, 4 ; H. C. Chapman, 3 : Angelo Ileilprin, 3; 

 J. B. Ellis, 2 ; J. S. Kingsley, 2 ; Andrew Garrett, 2 ; W. N. Lock- 

 ington, 2; Win, G. Binney, 1 ; Dr. H. Bergh, of Copenhagen, 1; 

 Edw. D. Cope, 1 ; Chas. Wachsmuth, and Frank Springer, 1. The 

 Publication Committee has reported in favor of the publication 

 of all these in the Proceedings. 



One hundred and ninety-four pages of the Proceedings for 1878 

 and one hundred and ninety-one pages of the volume for 1879 have 

 been printed during the year. The current volume will be illus- 

 trated by seventeen plates. 



Verbal communications have been made by Messrs. Leidj r , 

 Meehan, Ford, Ryder, Koenig, Kelly, Ashburner, Potts, Horn, 

 Evarts, Chapman, McCook, Kenderdine, A. J. Parker, Goldsmith, 

 Hunt, Martindale, Canbj-, Rothrock, Warder, Porter, Foote, Cope, 

 Pierce, Willcox, Dercum, Redfield, Barbeck, Brinton. 



At the meeting held March 25th, Prof. Edw. D. Cope was elected 



to fill a vacancy in the Council caused by the death of Dr. J. H. 



McQuillen. 



Edw. J. Nolan, 



Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



The Corresponding Secretary presents herewith the report of 

 matters pertaining to his office during the year ending Nov. 30. 



There have been eight Correspondents elected by the Academj', 

 all of whom have been notified. 



The correspondence received during the year has been, for the 

 most part, that transmitting the publications of corresponding 

 societies or other organizations, and from Correspondents acknowl- 

 edging their election. Those letters requiring an answer have re- 

 ceived proper attention. 



The letters written have been in great part acknowledgments 

 of donations to the Museum. These letters, numbering 177, cover 

 a much greater number of donations. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Geo. II. Horn, M.D., 



Corresponding Secretary. 




440 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1879. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



During the twelve months from Dec. 1, 1878, to Nov. 30, 1879, 

 2778 additions have been made to the library. These haveincluded 

 513 volumes, 2250 pamphlets, and 15 maps; 2099 were octavos, 

 557 quartos, 57 duodecimos, and 50 folios. 



They were derived from the following sources: 



Trustees of New York State 

 Museum and Library ... 3 



Geological Survey of Canada . 3 



Hydrographic Office .... 2 



Government of New South 

 Wales 2 



Geological Survey of Portugal 



British Government .... 



Surgeon-General, U. S. A. . . 



British Museum 



Navy Department .... 



Argentine Centennial Commis- 

 sion 



Dr. Win, H. Jones .... 



W. K. Brooks 



Alexander Agassiz .... 



Mrs. Charles Pickering . . . 



John Jay Knox 



Henry Vendryes 



Mariano Barcena 



Alfred Gray 



Charles F. Parker 



H. W. JJowgate 



John Collett 



In addition to these, 19 volumes were received in exchange for 

 duplicate books. They were distributed to the different depart- 

 ments of the library as follows: 



Journals 1997 



Geology 197 



General Natural History . . 92 



Botany 84 



Conchology 74 



Anatomy and Physiology . . 55 



Entomology 43 



Voyages and Travels ... 37 



History and Biography ... 34 



Ornithology 24 



Agriculture 23 



Helminthology 21 



Physical Science 18 



Anthropology 16 



Bibliography 16 



Mineralogy 



Mammalogy 



Chemistry 



Encyclopedias 



Literature 



Medicine 



Herpetology 



Mathematics 



Ichthyology 



13 



7 



7 



6 



4 



3 



3 



2 

 o 



During the year the card catalogue of the department of anat- 

 omy and physiology has been completed, the titles of 669 pamph- 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



lets having been added to the entries made last year. The cata- 

 logues of the hooks on helminthology, ichthyology, and herpetology 

 have also been finished, leaving onty those on anthropology and 

 mineralogy to be yet entered. In addition to the books catalogued, 

 there are in the library a large Dumber of literary, artistic, and 

 historical works to which I have before called attention for the 

 purpose of recommending that they be sold, and the funds applied 

 to the purchase of books more specially useful to the society. In 

 the hope that this disposition may be made of these works, it is 

 not the intention at present to extend the card entries to these 

 departments, so that the catalogue will probably he completed 

 early next year. 



Constant effort has been made to complete, as far as possible, 

 the sets of periodicals in the library, and to add those not yet in 

 the possession of the Academy. This work will be materially 

 forwarded by the issue of Mr. Scudder's invaluable Catalogue of 

 Scientific Serials, which furnishes a means not before at hand of 

 determining our deficiencies. 



For the amounts expended on the purchase of books reference 

 is made to the report of the Treasurer. The accompanying list 

 of additions made during the year indicates, as heretofore, that 

 for the most valuable items, apart from our exchanges, we are 

 dependent upon the I. V. Williamson Fund. 



All of which is respectful^ submitted, 



Edw. J. Nolan, 



Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The Curators report that during the year all the various col- 

 lections of the Museum have been carefully inspected and cared 

 for, and that they are all in good condition. A violent storm, 

 which caused considerable destruction of glass and flooding of 

 rain, wetted some parts of the collections, but the objects were 

 speedil\ r dried, so that little serious damage resulted, except the 

 loss of several specimens of echinoderms. Mr. J. A. Ryder has 

 been continuously engaged in identifying, arranging, and label- 

 ing the collection of fishes. There have been identified upwards 

 of 700 species of 325 genera. The Bonaparte collection of fishes, 

 considering the time it has been preserved, is in excellent condition. 

 29 




442 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



Mr. Spencer Trotter has also been engaged in the arrangement 

 of the birds. 



The collection of vertebrate fossils from the New Jersey cretace- 

 ous and tertiary marls, which are very liable to decomposition from 

 exposure to the air, have been treated so as to preserve them, and 

 the} r have been arranged and labeled. 



Most of the specimens received during the year have been 

 placed in their proper positions in the various collections. 



The most important addition to the Museum during the year, 

 consists of the Archaeological collection belonging: to the Aineri- 

 can Philosophical Society, deposited with the Academy by reso- 

 lution of Nov. 16, 18*17. The collection mainly consists of the 

 Poinsett collection of Mexican antiquities and many Peruvian 

 and other American antiquities. The Academy is indebted to 

 Mr. William S. Vaux, for defraying the expense of adapting one 

 of the entresol rooms to the proper exhibition of the collection. 



The contributions in the various departments during the year, 

 excepting those reported on by some of the special sections, are 

 as follow : 



Mammals. Five skeletons: Tapirus indicus, Auchenia\ Dico- 

 tyles, Sus, and Phascolomys, presented by Dr. H. C. Chapman. Seal 

 caught off Marcus Hook, Levi Cromwell. Skeleton of a native 

 of the Chatham Islands, W. H. Ran. Young Chimpanzee, Phila. 

 Zool. Society. Red Fox, Harford Co., Md., I. C. Martindale. 

 Monstrous new-born Sheep, W. H. FaulUener. 



Birds. Twenty -five species birds' nests with eggs, presented 

 b} r John Pearsall. Ardea herodias, Florida, J. W. Millner and Jos. 

 TVillcox. Tachypetes aquilus, Jos. Willcox. Skeleton of Fla- 

 mingo, Dr. H. C. Chapman. Nest and eggs of Junco hy emails, 

 mountains of North Carolina, W. N. Canlrv. Perdix saxatilis 

 and Ardea eornnta, Syria, Prof. Janowsk}'. Ostrich egg, Dr. Geo. 

 H. Horn. Gallus domesticus, Jos. 0. Schimmel. Dacelo gigantea, 

 Turtur bitorquatus, Psittacus erythraeus, Ghrysotis ocrocephala, 

 Platycercus hsematonotus, P. eximeus, P. pennanti, P. semitor- 

 quatus, Munia undulata, Amadina bicolor, Donacola caslaneotho- 

 rax, Phila. Zool. Society. 



Reptiles, Amphibians, and Fishes. A collection of lizards and 

 snakes, presented by Dr. H. C. Chapman. Phrynosoma regale, 

 California, Dr. Jos. K. Corson. Twin Testudo clausa, S S Halde- 

 man. Amphiuma means, Gymnotus electricus, Phila. Zool. So- 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 443 



ciety. Orthagoriscus mola, Atlantic City, N. J., J. L. Howard. 

 Lophivs amerioanus, Atlantic City, N. J., S. D. Button. Embryo 

 of Kay, Dr. H. C. Evarts. 



Articulates Artemia fertilis, Limnadia compleximanus, 



Streptocephalus watsoni, and Branch inectes color aden sis, pre- 

 sented by Dr. A. S. Packard. Streptocephalus sealii, Woodbury, 

 N. J., W. P. Seal. Chirocephalus holmani, Woodbury, N. J., 

 Messrs. Seal and Holman. Palinurus vulgaris, Medt., John Ford. 

 Eubranchipus vernalis, Long Island, F. Gissler. Two crusta- 

 cean parasites and two worms, from Orthagoriscus, J. L. Howard. 

 Polyxenes fasciculatus, Fairmount, J. A. Ryder. Mygale hentzii, 

 Buthus, Mantis, Gryptoglossa verrucosa, Eleodes armata, Sco- 

 lopendra, Ft. Yuma, Cal., Dr. Joseph K. Corson, U. S. A. Lu- 

 canus elephas, Swedesboro, N. J., Richard French. Platylepas 

 decorata, Hernando Co., Fla., Jos. Willcox. ^Nests of the Honey 

 Ant, Myrmecocystis, Colorado, Rev. H. C. McCook. Three in- 

 sects mounted in soluble glass, and cocoons and raw silk of the 

 silk-worm, Dr. S. Chamberlain. 



Badiates and Protozoans. A small collection from Mt. Desert, 

 Me., presented by Dr. H. C. Chapman. Sertularia argentea, 

 Boring-sponge in the shell of the oyster ; Pterogorgia setosa, W. I., 

 and Doricidaris jjapillata, Medt., John Ford. Penella pilosa, 

 with attached Gonchoderma, J. L. Howard. Spongilla lacustris 

 and Pectinatella magnifica, Woodbury, N. J., W. P. Seal. Gris- 

 tatella idae, Fairmount, Dr. Jos. Leidy. 



Fossils. Fossil fishes, and bones of Uintatherium, Palxosyops, 

 and Crocodile, Green R., Wyoming, presented by Dr. H. C. Chap- 

 man. Fragments of jaws with molars of Bangifer caribou, from 

 the loess of Muscatine, Iowa, Prof. F. M. Witter. Foot-prints of 

 Anthracopus ellangoioensis, Ellangowan Colliery, Mahanoy, Pa., 

 W. D. H. Mason, through W. Lorenz. Bones of Gavial, miocene, 

 N. J., and two coal fossils, Lepidostrobus, Carbondale, Pa., Dr. 

 Jos. Leidy. Tooth of Garcharodon megalodon, picked up on the 

 shore of Atlantic City, N. J., E. Lippincott. Fragment of bone, 

 Yincenttown marl, N. J., Col. T. M. Bryan. Trilobite, T. A. Con- 

 rad. Maclurea, carboniferous limestone, Upton, Franklin Co., 

 Pa., Annie Ryder. Casts of skull and jaw of Acotherulum saturn- 

 inum, Phosphate beds of Jersey, Prof. Paul Gervais. Ramus of 

 lower jaw and portion of tibia of Mastodon andium, S. A., de- 

 posited by Dr. I. C. Coates. Tooth of Mosasaurus, Chalk of 




444 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



Meudon, France, Leucociscus papyraceous, Protomyia macroce- 

 phala, and Micropsalis papyracea, miocene of Rott, near Bonn, 

 purchased. 



Ethnological and Miscellaneous. Necklace with ornament, two 

 carved gourd vessels, bows and arrows, blow-gun, spears, from 

 Costa Rica and California, collected by the late Win. M. Gabb, 

 together with a portrait of the latter, presented by Mrs. C. G. 

 Gabb. Fire-stick of Digger Indians, Sacramento R., Cal., W. C. 

 Desmond. Indian stone-pipe, Bedford Co., Pa., E. Draper. Cloth 

 made from Yucca fibre, Mexico, Dr. C. C. Parry. Fragments of 

 steatite vessels from an ancient steatite quarry, Rock Creek, near 

 Washington, D.C., W. J. Rhees. Stone mortar, East Tennessee, 

 A. D. Trimble. Stone implement, Hernando Co., Fla., Jos. Will- 

 cox. Copper bracelet, Thebes, C.F.Parker. Stone carving, Cave 

 Temple of Elephanta, and sandals of the Arabs of Muscat, Dr. 

 Rusehenberger. Five stone axes, Pa.; three ditto, N. J.; one 

 ditto, with terra-cotta pot and bowl from a mound, New Madrid, 

 Mo. ; stone scrapers and chips, Wyoming Ty., in exchange, from 

 Dr. Leidy. 



Respectfully submitted by the Curators, 



Joseph Leidy, Chairman. 



REPORT OF BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL 



SECTION. 



During the past year there were held seventeen meetings with 

 an average attendance of 60 persons. 



There were two exhibitions given to the public, at the first of 

 which there were exhibited 137 instruments, and at the second 179. 



Lectures were delivered by members at each meeting, and a 

 special course by Dr. J. Gibbons Hunt continued through the en- 

 tire year. 



The officers elected for 1880 are 



Director .... Dr. Carl Seiler, 



Yne-Director . . . Dr. C. Newlin Pierce. 



Corresponding Secretary . Dr. Charles Shaffer, 



Treasurer .... Dr. Isaac Norris, 



Recorder .... Dr. Robert Hess, 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 445 



Auditors .... Dr. George Dixon, 



Charles P. Perot, 

 S. Fisher Corlies, 



Committee of Curators . Dr. J. Gibbons Hunt, 



Charles Zentmayer, 

 Jacob Binder, 



Committee on Business . Charles P. Perot, 



Charles Zentmayer, 

 Dr. Charles Turnbull. 



Robt. J. Hess, 



Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE COXCHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Recorder of the Conchological Section respectfully reports 

 that during 1879 papers have been accepted and published in the 

 Academy's Proceedings aggregating 90 pages, by authors as fol- 

 lows: 



W. G. Binney, 1 page. Angelo Heilprin, 6 pages. 



Andrew Garrett, 14 pages. R. E. C. Stearns, 7 pages. 



Dr. R. Bergh, 62 pages. 



On the 6th of last January the Section met with a severe loss 

 in the death of the Rev. E. R. Beadle. 



From its formation to the time of his death Dr. Beadle was the 

 secretary of the Conchological Section, and his ability and ex- 

 tended acquaintance among scientists both at home and abroad 

 went far towards making it a success. His loss will be deeply 

 felt by many who, in common with ourselves, have been richly 

 benefited by his acquaintance and influence. 



The Conservator, Mr. George W. Tryon, Jr., reports that, dur- 

 ing the year ending December 1,2750 trays, containing 11,895 

 specimens of shells and mollusks, have been determined, labelled, 

 mounted, and placed in the collection. The most of these belong 

 to the Swift Collection, the arrangement of which, after three 

 years' labor, is now completed. The Swift Cabinet was given to 

 the Academy upon condition that it should not be incorporated 

 with the general collection, and this condition is complied with by 

 placing the specimens in drawers protected by glass tops, and 




441) 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1879. 



placed under the corresponding genera contained in the table 

 cases. It is proposed tt> appropriately letter the fronts of these 

 drawers, and then unlock them so that they may be opened by the 

 public. The Swift Collection is rich in West Indian shells, and 

 particularly so in terrestrial species: it comprises 7058 trays, con- 

 taining 30,384 specimens. Mr. W. G. Binuey has frequently 

 favored us with specimens of rare American terrestrial mollusks 

 during the year, so as to nearly complete our series of these shells. 

 Dr. W. D. Hartman, of Westchester, who is preparing for publi- 

 cation a revision of the Partulidae, has carefully examined our 

 collection of these perplexing shells, and added a number of spe- 

 cies. We are indebted to Dr. J. J. Brown for a good collection 

 of marine shells from the Bahama Islands, and to Mr. Henry 

 Yendiyes for a fine series of Jamaica Miocene shells. A typical 

 suite of the land shells collected by the late Wm. M. Gabb in, 

 Costa Rica is among the important additions to our Museum dur-? 

 ing the year. A detailed list of donations is annexed to this 

 report. 



The Section is again greatly indebted to Mr. Charles F. Parker 

 for valuable assistance in preparing specimens for exhibition, the 

 whole of the additions to the cabinet during the year having been 

 mounted on tablets, and placed on appropriate paper trays by 

 him. We are also much indebted to Mr. John Ford for preparing 

 sections of shells for the purpose of showing their internal form. 

 It is proposed to exhibit a section of a characteristic form in each 

 genus, and Mr. Ford has kindly undertaken to prepare them 

 for us. 



The officers of the Section for 1880 are 



Director . . . W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M.D. 



Vice-Director . . John Ford. 



Recorder . . . S. Raymond Roberts. 



Secretary . . . John H. Redfield. 



Treasurer . . Win. L. Mactier. 



Conservator . . George W. Try on, Jr. 



Respectfully submitted, 



S. Raymond Roberts, 



liecorder. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



The following are the additions to the Conchological Cabinet 



received during 1879: 



Binney, Win. G. Byfhinia fentaculata, from Champlain Canal, 

 W. Troy, New York; Unio heterodon, Mixville, Conn.; 

 Sphserium rhomboideum, Helix Rugeli, and H. Andrewsi, 

 Roan Mt., X. C; H. globulus, H. vernicosa, and //. rari- 

 plicata, Cape Town, S. Africa; H oppilata and H. Buffo- 

 niana, Mexico; 20 species N. Am. Helices, new to the col- 

 lection; Bulimus Natalen sis, Cape Town; Urocyclus and 

 Veronicella, from Mozambique; Simpulopsis corrugatus 

 and jaws and tongues of Ampullaria urceus, Trinidad; Vi- 

 trina latissima, Onchidella Garpenteri. 



Bland, Thomas. 3 species of land shells from Curacoa; 7 species 

 marine shells from the tertiaiy of Jamaica. 



Brown, Dr. J. J. 60 species marine shells, mostly collected by 

 him at the Bahama Islands. 



Calkins, W. W. Gylindrella Guigonana, Haiti. 



De Tarr and Beecher. Planorbis costatus, types. 



Fisher, Dr. Jas. L. (Nagasaki). Soletellina Bttddinghausii, Japan. 



Ford, John. Beautifully prepared sections of Nautilus Pompilius, 



and of 32 prosobranchiate Gasteropod shells ; Helix triden- 



tata, H. alternata, and H. albolabris, from Three Sisters' 



Islands, Niagara Falls; Grepidula fornicala, G. iingui- 



formis, Anomia ephippium, Sandy Hook, N. J. 



Gabb, Wm. M. 43 species (numerous specimens) terrestrial and 

 fluviatile shells, principally types of species recently de- 

 scribed by Messrs. G. F. Angas and W. G. Binney. Col- 

 lected by Mr. Gabb in Costa Rica. 



Hartman, Dr. W. D. Partula recta and bicolor ; 16 species (49 

 specimens) of Partula; Unio from Japan, and Cardium, 

 nov. sp. from Viti Isles. 



Jones, Dr. W. H. Mollusks dredged by him at Havre, France, etc. 



Lea, Dr. Isaac. Unio Incinensi* and U. differtus, Lea. 



Lewis, Dr. James. Bythinia fentaculata, Oswego, New York. 



Leidy, Dr. Joseph. Mactra solidisxima, abnormal growth, Brigan- 

 tine Beach, N. J. 



Mactier, W. L. Lacuna divaricata, Nantucket. 



Mickleborough, John. A collection of Silurian fossil shells from 

 the Cincinnati Group, Cincinnati, Ohio. 



Munroe, Trof. C. E. 5 species of Eocene shells, from Maryland. 




443 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



Peale, Titian R. Limax maximus, New York Cit}\ 



Pike, Prof. J. W. Silurian shells, from Richmond, Ind. 



Shaffer, Miss M. Loliyo Pealei, from a black fish caught in Dela- 

 ware Bay. 



Stearns, R. E. C. 12 species land and marine shells, from Cali- 

 fornia and Japan. 



Stein, Frederick. Goniobasis papillosa, from Florida. 



Try on, Geo. W., Jr. 137 species of terrestrial mollusks (of which 

 70 are new to the collection), collected by Andrew Garrett 

 in the islands of Central Polynesia 



Vendryes, Henry. Kingston, Jamaica. A typical collection of 

 88 species of Miocene shells, from the island of Jamaica. 



Webb, H. W. 18 specimens (55 species) of terrestrial mollusks, 

 from Balsas, Valley of Marafion, Peru. 



REPORT OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Section reports that its meetings have been regularly held 

 during the past year on the second Friday evening of each month 

 excepting in July and August. In December the meeting takes 

 place immediately after that of the American Entomological 

 Society on the second Wednesday evening. 



The membership is now thirty, having been increased during 

 the year by the admission of Geo. B. Cresson. 



The average attendance at the meetings has been six. 



At all of the meetings scientific communications have been 

 made by the members, either in the form of verbal remarks or 

 written papers, the authors in the latter case presenting verbally, 

 in brief, the more important points of their papers. 



Among the more interesting communications may be mentioned 

 those presented by Rev. Dr. McCook, on the Honey Ant of our 

 western country, the habits being now very fully made known 

 through his untiring industry under unfavorable surroundings. 



Written communications have been presented as follows : " De- 

 scriptions of new species of North American Hymenoptera," "Cat- 

 alogue of North American Apidse," both by E. T. Cresson; " On 

 the Chrysides of North America," by Edw. Norton; " Catalogue 

 of the Mutillidae of North America, with description of new spe- 

 cies," by Chas. A. Blake ; " Synopsis of the Monotomidae of the 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 449 



United States," " Synopsis of the Nitidulidse of the United 

 States," " Notes on the Mycteridse and other Heteromera of the 

 United States," by George H. Horn, M.D. 



The foregoing have been published as part of the Transactions 

 of the American Entomological Society, and together with papers 

 published during December of last year, amount to one hundred 

 and seventy-three pages with one plate. 



In addition to the above the following papers have been ac- 

 cepted for publication, and will form part of Volume VIII. of the 

 Transactions: "Descriptions of new species of North American 

 Hy-menoptera," " Catalogue of North American Tenthridinida? 

 and Uroceridae," by E. T. Cresson ; " Notes on the Asaphes of 

 Boreal America," " Revision of the Dascyllidse of the United 

 States," " Contributions to the Coleopterology of the United 

 States," by George H. Horn, M.D. ; "Short Studies on North 

 American Coleoptera," by J. L. LeConte, M.D. 



With the beginning of the year the Section has published the 

 " Proceedings of the monthly meetings of the Entomological Sec- 

 tion of the Academy of Natural Sciences," in which are contained 

 a record of the doings of the Section with the shorter papers and 

 verbal communications from the members, and a list of all publi- 

 cations received in exchange, by purchase or from the authors. 



The total publications excluding Index are 

 Transactions of the American Entomological Society . 1*73 pp. 

 Proceedings of the Section ...... 34 pp. 



Giving a total of 207 pp. 



By the invitation of the Biological and Microscopical Section, 

 the Entomological Section joined with them on the occasion of 

 their last reception in the endeavor to make the resources of the 

 Academy more widely known, and the exhibition more varied 

 and entertaining to those who favored us with a visit. The 

 crowded rooms and the interest shown by our visitors spoke 

 well not only for the grand microscopical display, but also for our 

 more modest exhibit. 



During the 3-ear the collections have been carefully examined 

 several times thoroughly by the Conservator and b}- the members 

 while using them. They are reported in good order. Very few 

 additions have been made. 




450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



At the annual meeting in December, the following officers were 

 elected to serve during 1880: 



Director ..... John L. Leconte, M.D. 



Vice-Director .... Geo. H. Horn, M.D. 



Recorder Jas. H Ridings. 



Treasurer E. T. Cresson. 



Conservator .... Geo. B. Cresson. 



Publication Committee . . Geo. H. Horn, M.D., 



Samuel Lewis, M.D. 



All of which is respectfully submitted, 



Geo. H. Horn, M.D. ; Vice-Director, 



for the Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION. 



The Vice-Director of the Botanical Section has much pleasure in 

 reporting to the Academy the satisfactory progress it has made 

 during the past year. The Section now consists of thirty-five 

 members, and the meetings held every month, except August and 

 September, have been well attended. At these meetings many 

 new and valuable facts in relation to our local flora, as well as to 

 the science of Botany in general, have been contributed by many 

 of the members. Of the papers read before the meetings one by 

 Mr. Ellis, of Newfield, New Jersey, and one by Professor Asa 

 Gray, have been of such general importance as to receive the re- 

 commendation of the Section to the Academy for publication in 

 its proceedings. 



In regard to the valuable Herbarium it is pleasant to report 

 that the additions of the past and previous year together are far 

 be3-ond those of any period for many years past. 



That so many distinguished men should have aided the Academy 

 in this handsome manner shows their high appreciation of its 

 work Und usefulness. In the arrangement of the Herbarium a 

 place has been reserved for every genus, and it is gratifying to 

 note that the hiati are now mostly of genera from regions rarely 

 explored, and that even these are gradually being filled, so that 

 the floras of even the most distant parts of the world are fairly 

 represented on our shelves. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 451 



The work of revising the various families so as to bring the 

 nomenclature in accord with modern views, and which in former 

 reports it was believed could scarcely be accomplished without 

 the employment of experts to be especially engaged for the pur- 

 pose, still remains to be done but the voluntary labors of several 

 distinguished botanists have aided us the past year to a good be- 

 ginning for even this herculean task, and we may hope that it 

 will not be very long before the whole is treated in the same way. 



It is no derogation to the assistance we have received from 

 many members and friends to say that much of the excellent pro- 

 gress made is due to the energy of our Conservator Mr. John H. 

 Red field, whose report in detail has been adopted by the Section 

 as part of this report. 



Thomas Meehan, 



Vice- Director. 



The Conservator reports that the work of the past year has 

 been mainly directed to the improvement of the condition of the 

 Academy's valuable Herbarium, and this labor has been interrupted 

 only by the necessary care and attention bestowed upon the con- 

 stant new accessions to its stores. 



The order-tablets and genus lists for the North American Herba- 

 rium have been completed. 



Mr. Isaac C. Martindale has carefully elaborated and catalogued 

 the species of Clematis, Anemone, and one or two other allied 

 genera, both in the general and in the North American depart- 

 ments, a tedious and difficult labor which has revealed both the 

 extent and the weaknesses of our collection. Mi. Charles F. Par- 

 ker has also neatly mounted these species, and the work of these 

 two gentlemen, while onby the beginning of a gigantic task, is a 

 model for future workers. 



Dr. Asa Gray, of Cambridge, has during the year revised for us 

 some of the most perplexing of the genera of the North American 

 Compositre, such as Yernonia, Solidago, Chrysopsis, etc., and Mr. 

 Parker is securing to us the result of this labor, by mounting the 

 plants (with Dr. Gray's notes affixed) as fast as elaborated. 



Mr. Bebb, who, in 1878, worked out for us the willows of our 

 North American Herbarium, has this year performed a similar 

 service upon those of the general Herbarium, with infinite addition 

 to their scientific value. 




452 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1879. 



Mr. F. L. Scribner has continued his careful and scrutinizing 

 work upon our grasses, mounting them as he progresses, and we 

 may expect an early completion of so much of the work as relates 

 to the North American Herbarium. 



The Conservator has mounted and ticketed that portion of the 

 North American Herbarium which extends from the Order Good- 

 eniacea? to Order Gentianaceaj inclusive, and hopes to continue 

 the work. 



The accessions to our collection have been constant, extensive, 

 and valuable. The number of species received during the year 

 has been 2181, of which a good proportion were new to our shelves. 

 All these have been carefully poisoned, labeled, mounted, and 

 distributed in the proper orders. Mr. C. F. Parker has been of 

 most essential service in this work, giving us many hours of labor 

 over and above his engagements with the Academy. 



Among the valuable additions of the year may be specially 

 mentioned G23 species of Florida plants, embracing many new 

 and rare species, collected by Dr. A. P. Garber, of Columbia, Pa., 

 and by him generously presented to the Academy ; and many 

 hundreds of rare plants from Northern and Central Asia, North- 

 ern, Southern, and Central Africa, Borneo, Kerguelen Land, 

 Polynesia, California, Oregon, etc., presented by Dr. Asa Graj', 

 of Cambridge, Mass. 



A complete list of the donations during the year is appended 

 to the report now respectfully submitted. 



John H. Redfield, 



Conservator. 



Additions to Botanical Museum and Herbarium, 18*79. 



January. Dr. Asa Gray; 174 species of plants from Northern 

 and Central Asia, Borneo, Polynesia, and Africa, and 37 

 species mostly from California, Nevada, and Washington 

 Territory. 



February. Dr. James Hamer, Collegeville, Montgomery Co., Pa.; 

 specimen of Phallus, in spirits. 



March. Win. M. Canby, Wilmington, Del.; Callisia, collected in 

 Florida, by Miss Mary C. Reynolds. 



April. Dr. George E. Post, of American Protestant College, 

 Beirut, Syria; 189 species of Syrian plants, being a third 

 instalment sent in exchange for Colorado and Utah plants. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 453 



t 



Dr. Asa Gray; 60 species plants, collected by Hooker and 

 Ball in Marocco in 1 SY 1 ; 22 species from Southern Europe; 

 55 species of Carices from Sweden and Lapland, and 3 spe- 

 cies North American plants. 



Dr. A. P. Garber, Columbia, Pa.; 555 species of plants col- 

 lected by him mostly near Manatee, Florida. 



John H. Redfield; 102 species European plants, inostty from 

 Buda-Pesth, Hungary; also Asplenium mucronalum, from 

 Tijuca, Brazil. 



Thomas Meehan ; Viola Beckwithii, collected in Washington 

 Territory, b}^ Mrs. F. E. Putuam. 



Dr. J. A. Warder, Cincinnati, 0. ; sections of wood of Catalpa 

 bignonioides, variety speciosa. 

 May. Dr. Asa Gray; 49 species plants, collected in Kergnelan 

 Land, by J. H. Kidder, of British Transit Expedition, and 

 73 species collected mostly in Northern Borneo, by F. W. 

 Burb ridge. 



John H. Redfield ; 29 species of plants, collected by Dr. C. C. 

 Parry and Dr. E. Palmer, chiefly in the region of San Luis 

 Potosi, Mexico, in 1878. 



Dr. C. C. Parry, of Davenport, la.; part of a saddle-cloth in 

 common use in Mexico, made from the fibre of Yucca. 



Wm. M. Canby ; Shortia gaiicifolia, collected by M. E. Hyams, 

 in McDowell Co., N. C; also Baptisia sulphurea, from 

 Limestone Gap, Indian Territory, collected by G. D. Butler. 



Isaac C. Martindale; Ellis's 2d Century of North American 

 Fungi, being 100 species of Fungi, neatly mounted in book 

 form. 

 June. Miss E. S. Boyd ; 37 species ferns from Sandwich Islands. 



George E. Davenport, Boston, Mass. ; 5 species ferns, from 

 Florida. 



Wm. M. Canby ; 2 species California ferns, new to the col- 

 lection. 



Ashmead Bros., Jacksonville, Fla., through Dr. G. II. Horn ; 

 Sarracenia variolaris, Mx., from Florida. 



A. L. Siler, of Osmer, Utah ; Cones of Abies Engelmanni, 

 from Kanab Canon, Southern Utah. 

 September. Dr. Asa Gray ; 64 species plants, mostly from Oregon 

 and California. 




454 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1879. 



John H. Redfield ; 282 species plants, collected by Dr. C. C. 

 Parry and Dr. E. Palmer in 1878, chiefly in the region of 

 San Luis Potosi, Mexico; also 81 species, collected in 

 Western North Carolina in June 1879, by Dr. Asa Gray, 

 Win. M. Canhy, C. S. Sargent, and J. H. Redfield; also 

 Aspidium aculeatum Sw. var. Braunii, collected in Bush- 

 nellsville Clove, Catskill Mts. 



Dr. A. P. Garber ; 68 species of Florida plants, collected by 

 him, supplementary to the collection received from him in 

 April, most of these being new or rare species. 



Isaac C. Martindale; Teucrium occidentale Gr., collected by 

 him on banks of Delaware River, below Philadelphia. 

 October. Dr. Asa Gray; 47 species of phanerogamous plants 

 from Mexico and West Indies, and 12 mosses from Borneo. 



Titian R. Peale ; Drosera filiformis, from Ocean Grove, N. J. 

 November. Wm. M. Canby; 18 species North American plants, 

 nearly all new to the collection. 



Chas. F.Parker; Epiphegus Virginiana Bart. var. Rauana, 



collected by C. F. Austin, on High Peak, Catskill Mts., N.Y. 



December. Isaac C. Martindale; 96 species plants, some from 



New Zealand, but mostly foreign species collected on the 



ballast deposits in the neighborhood of Philadelphia. 



Dr. Geo. Engelmann, St. Louis, Mo.; 5 varieties of Quercns, 

 mostly hybrids. 



Prof. Thos. C. Porter, Lafayette College, Easton, Pa. ; Soli- 

 dago Buckleyi, from Monticello, Ga. 



Susannah Kite, Friends Library, Germantown, Phila. ; Cle- 

 matis Scottii Porter, from Colorado. 



Thos. Meehan; Salicornia arbuscula R. Br., from Victoria, 

 Australia, collected by Baron von M tiller. 



REPORT OF THE MINERALOGICAL SECTION. 



The Director of the Mineralogical Section of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences, would respectfully report that meetings of the 

 Section have been held regularly every month, except July and 

 August. The attendance has been larger than in the prior year, 

 and there has been no lack of interest. 



Reference to the annexed list of donations will show that the 

 increase of the collection of the Academy has been satisfactory. 




1879.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 455 



The local collection has been arranged and labeled. 



At the February meeting it was decided to admit, as associate 

 members, persons interested in mineralogy but ineligible to active 

 membership by reason of not being members of the Academy. 

 Several such have been elected, and have attended the meetings 

 and taken much interest in the proceedings. 



Through the courtesy of the Biological and Microscopical Sec- 

 tion, the Mineralogical Section has had the use of microscopes in 

 the examination of sections of rocks, and of minerals included 

 in others. Several interesting exhibitions of this character were 

 had, showing an entertaining, and, as yet, little explored region, 

 in which it is hoped the lady members of the Section may find a 

 field peculiarly suited to their opportunities of study. 



It is purposed to present to the Academy for publication a state- 

 ment of the more important communications made to the Section. 



The following list of additions made to the Mineralogical Cabi- 

 net during the year has been furnished by Mr. Clias. F. Parker: 



G. W. Baker. Nodules of Hematite, Venezuela. 



A. J. Brand. Native Copper, Madison Co., W. Ya. 



Col. T. M. Bryan. Asphaltum, Amber, Flint and Geode of the 



same, probably pseudomorph of Sponge, from the marl of 



Yincenttown, N. J. 

 Dr. J. M. Cardeza. Fossiliferous(?) Sandstone, Bel. Co., Pa.; 



Lignite, Elkton, Md. 

 Mrs. Hugh Davids. Stilpnomelane, Weilburg, Nassau ; Braunite, 



Ilmenau, Thuringia; Ardenite, Salm-Chateau, Belgium; Ber- 



thierite in Quartz, near Freiberg, Saxony; Megabasite on 



Quartz, Bohemia. 

 John Ford. Tourmaline, W. side of Schuylkill, Phila.; Chlorite 



with Magnetite, above Manayunk: Pink Marble, Marble 



Hall, Mont. Co., Phila. 

 Mrs. Gabb. Borax, near Clear Lake, Cal. 

 G. N. P. Gale. Collection of minerals and rocks, Orange Co., 



N. Y. 

 J. Geismar. Gypsum, marl of Burlington Co., N. J. 

 E. Goldsmith. Peat, Nantucket Island, Mass. 

 J. M. Hartman. One hundred minerals from various localities, 



including a fine suite of Iron ores from Sweden. 

 Dr. H. Haupt, Jr. Stalactite, Giles Co., Ya. 




456 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1819. 



Dr. F. V. Hayden. A fine collection of Geyserites, etc., Geysers 

 of the Yellowstone National Park. 



W. W. Jefferis. Lignite, Penna. R. R. Tunnel, Baltimore, Md.; 

 Bronzite,Bare Hills, Md.; Corundum and Culsageeite, Chester 

 Co., and Kyanite, Lancaster Co., Pa.; Micaceous Iron, Lake 

 Superior. 



Dr. Jos. Leidy. Steatite pseudomorph of Staurolite, Lisbon, N. 

 H.; Apophyllite, Isle Haute, Bay of Fundy. 



H. C. Lewis. Native Sulphur, Surry Co., N. C; Lignite, Kin- 

 kora, N. J.; Diatomaceous Earth, Richmond, Va. 



Dr. Linn. Muscovite with peculiar markings, Macon Co., N. C. 



W. L. Mactier. Amber, Nantucket, Mass. 



J. W. Peck. Calcite, from beneath a bed of upper Silurian Pen- 

 tamerus, Delhi, Ind. 



Theo. D. Rand. Twelve Rocks, Mahanoy City, Pa.; Diabase, near 

 Pottstown, Pa.; Euphyllite in Tourmaline, Pyrite, Quartz, 

 xls., Chester Co.; Almandine, Dixon's Quany, Delaware; 

 forty-four Rocks, neighborhood of Phila. ; Petroleum, Ennis- 

 killen, Canada; Willemite, Franklin, N. J.; Drusy Quartz, 

 Calcite, Montgomery Co., Pa.; Quartz, Andalusite, Delaware 

 Co., Pa. ; seventeen Rocks, Delaware Co., Pa. ; Stalactite, 

 Page Co., Ya. ; Molybdenite, Frankford, Phila. 



Dr. Ruschenberger. Obsidian, Mauna Loa, Hawaii, eruption of 

 3 856. 



W. S. Yaux. Cuprite, Cornwall, England; Pyrosmalite, Nord- 

 marken, Sweden; Gypsum, Monte Doneto, Bologna; four 

 crystals of Orthoclase, Baveno, Lake Maggiore, Italy; Axi- 

 nite, Medals, Switzerland ; Yanadinite, Lead Hills, Scotland ; 

 a fine specimen of Harmotome, Strontian, Scotland; Octahe- 

 dral Quartz and Hematite, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y.; Apatite 

 and Biotite, Burgess, Canada; Spinel, Orange Co., N. Y.; a 

 very fine specimen of Proustite, Chanarcillo, Copiapo, Chili. 



Jos. YVillcox. Corundum, from Chester Co., Pa., and Ala. ; Tour- 

 maline, Pyroxene, and Hornblende, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y. ; 

 Pyrophyllite, Chesterfield, S. C; Margarite, Andesite, Chester 

 Co., Pa.; Phlogopite, Apatite, Ontario, Canada ; twelve Stau- 

 rolites, Tannin Co., Ga. 



Minerals in exchange for duplicate books. Umenite, Bavaria; 

 Astrophyllite, El Paso Co., Cal.; Calcite in Limestone, Fluo- 

 rite and Calcite in Limestone, Millerite and Dolomite, St. 




187^.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 457 



Louis, Mo.; Orthoclase, Gotlrite on Quartz, Orthoclase, Pike's 

 Peak, Col.; Limonite, Neguanee, Mich.; Pyrolusite, Nova 

 Scotia; Stalactite, Stalagmite. 

 Minerals purchased. Adamite on Quartz, France ; Gersdorffite, 

 Styria ; Eudyaliteand Arfvedsonite with Feldspar, Greenland; 

 Wavellite, Montgomery Co., Ark.; Corundum and Lesleyite, 

 Corundum, Barnhardtite, N. C. ; Langite, Cornwall, England ; 

 Euxenite, Arendal, Norway ; Helvite with Quartz and Zinc- 

 blende, Saxony; Melilite in Lava, Humite, Vesuvius ; Sen- 

 armontite, Algeria; Bytownite, Canada; Fergusonite in 

 Quartz, with black Mica, Ytterhy, Sweden ; Sepiolite, Bonitz; 

 Covellite, Dillenberg; Glaucodot, Sweden. 

 Minerals deposited by Am. Phil. Soc. Red Porphyry, Sweden; 

 Pipe-stone, Sioux Country; Leopardite, N. C. ; Zinc, the first 

 manufactured in America, made from ore from Perkiomen 

 Mine, Montgomery Co., Pa. 

 The collection of minerals of the Franklin Institute, and the 

 rocks of the Rogers Survey of Penna., hei'etofore in its custod}', 

 have been deposited, on condition of their return on demand. 



I would also report the completion of the numbering of the 

 minerals in the Museum, in accordance vvitli the catalogue, and the 

 preparation of an alphabetical index of the same. 



All of which is respectfully submitted, 



Theo. D. Rand, 



Director. 



The election of Officers for 1880 was held, with the followin 

 result : 



President . . . W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M.D. 



Vice-Presidents . . Wm. S. Vaux, 



Thomas Meelian. 

 Recording Secretary . Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 

 Corresponding Secretary Geo. H. Horn, M.D. 

 Treasurer . . . Wm. C. Henszey. 

 Librarian . . . Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Curators . . . Joseph Leidy, M.D., 



William S. Vaux, 

 Charles F. Parker, 

 R. S. Kenderdine, M.D. 

 30 




458 PROCEEDINGS OF ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES. [1879. 



Councillors to serve three Rev. H. C. McCook, 

 years Edw. Potts, 



Isaac C. Martin dale, 

 Theo. D. Rand. 



Finance Committee . Edw. S. Wbelen, 



Clarence S. Bement, 

 Aubrey H. Smith, 

 S. Fisher Corlies, 

 Geo. Y. Shoemaker. 



ELECTIONS DURINC 1879. 



MEMBERS. 



January 28. H. Dnmont Wagner, Charles Henry Hart, Jacob 

 Binder, Geo. A. Binder. 



March 25. Joseph Mellors, Wm. S. Auchincloss. 



April 29 Robert Meade Smith, M.D., J. J. Kirkbride, M.D., 

 Jas. F. Magee, Wm. S. Magee, Henry C. Coates, Henry W. Stel- 

 wagon, M.D., Robert S. Davis. 



May 27. Chas. Pennypacker. 



June 24. William P. Foulke. 



July 29. John M. Taylor, M.D. 



October 28. Russell S. Hill. 



November 25. John C. Dawson, H. Russell Bassler, Mrs. 

 Marine J. Chase, Benjamin Sharp, Otto Luthy, John Wilson. 



CORRESPONDENTS. 



March 25 George Bentham, of London ; Wm. H. Leggett, of 

 New York ; John M. Coulter, of Hanover, Ind. 



July 21. Gustav Mayr, of Vienna; C. Emery, of Palermo. 

 September 30. Lieut. C. A. H. McCauley, IT. S. A. 



November 25. Theodor Kjerulf, of Christiania ; J. W. Pike, of 

 Vineland, N. J. 



* 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 459 



ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 



From December 3, 1878, to November 25, 1879, inclusive. 



Abort and Markoe, reply to Hon. Mr. Tappan, 1843. T. R. Peale. 

 Abich, H. Karten und profile zur Geologie der Halbinseln Kertsch und 



Taman. 

 Geologiscben Beobachtungen auf Reisen in den Gebirgs landern- 



zwischen Knr und Araxes. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 

 Adams, H. H. D. and H. Giacomelli The bird world. In exchange. 

 Agricultural reports, general index, 1837-1861. Agricultural Department. 

 Allen, T. F. Characeae Americana?. Pts. 1 and 2. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 American Museum of Natural History, N. Y., 10th report, 1879. The 



Trustees. 

 Amman, J. Stirpium rariorium in Imperio Rutheno sponte provenientium. 



1739. In exchange. 

 Arctic world, 1876. In exchange. 

 Ardissone, F. Le floridee Italiche. 

 La vie des cellules. The Author. 

 Uso delle diatomee nella determinazione della penetrazione degli obiet- 



tivi. The Author. 

 Astor Library, report, 1878. The Trustees. 

 Baillon, M. H. Dictionnaire de Botanique. 11 Fasc. 



Natural history of plants. Vol. V. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Balbiani, G. Generation des Vertebres. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Barber, E. A. Indian graves in Chester Co., Pa. The Author. 

 Barcena, M. Dicurso dedicd a la memoria de P. Angelo Secchi. The 



Author. 

 Barker, Jos. B. Navy Department. Bureau of Medicine and Surgery 



Reports, 1879. The Department. 

 Barney, E. E. Additional facts in relation to the Catalpa Tree. The Au- 

 thor. 

 Bary, A. De. Die Erscheinung der Symbiose. 1879. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Bataviaasch Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen, Tweede Ver- 



volg-Catalogns der Bibliotheek. The Society. 

 Bayle, E., and R. Zeiller. Explication dela Carte geologique de la France. 



Atlas, Ire et 2e partie. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 

 Benson, L. S. Mathematics in a dilemma. The Author. 

 Berg, C. Fauna entomologica de Patagonia. 

 Lepidopteren Patagonien's. 

 Sobre la Vida de las Abejas. 



Genero Streblota y las Notodontinas de la Republica Argentino. 

 Udsigt over det Sydlige Norges geologi. Text 4to and Atlas folio. 



1879. The Author. 

 Bernard, C. Lecons de physiologic operatoire, 1879. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Berthelot, Sabin. Vitalite des Mers, 1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Bessels, E. Die amerikanische Nordpol-Expedition. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Beudant, F. S. Cours elementaire d'histore naturelle Mineralogie. Gme 



Ed. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 




4G0 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Binncv. Win. G. Jaw and lingual dentition of Costa Rica land shells. 



The Author. 

 Boissier, E. Flora Orientalis. Vol. 4, Fasc. 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Bolton, H. Carrington. Behavior of natural sulphides with iodine and 



other reagents. The Author. 

 Bomnier, J. E. Platanes et leur culture. 

 Monog. de la Classe des Fougeres. 

 Fccondation artilicielle des Palmiers. 



Rapport sur le memoire sur la famille des Pomacees de M. J. Decaisne. 

 Des matieres colorantes des feuilles. 



Sur l'Amylogenese clans le regne vegetal. The Author. 

 Borre, A. Preudhomme de. Difformites observees chez l'Abax ovalis et le 



Geotrupes sylvaticus. 

 Oeuf et la jeune larve d'une espece de Cyphocrania. 

 Quelques conseils aux chasseur d'insectes. The Author. 

 Bortier, M. Cobergher, auteur du dessechement des Moeres. The Au- 

 thor. 

 Brehms Thierleben Bd. 4, 9 H. Bd. 5, 2-13 H., Bd. 6, 1-11 H. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Brent, J. C. Letters on the National Institute, Smithsonian Inst., the Fine 



Arts, etc. T. R. Peale. 

 Brocklesby, J. Microscopic World, 1851. In exchange. 

 Bronns' Klassen. 5er Bd. 25-29 Lief., 6er Bd. III. Abth. 1 Lief., V. 



Abth., 21-25 Lief. Wilson Fund. 

 Brougham, H. Dialogues on instinct, 1845. In exchange. 

 Bruhl, C. B. Zootomie aller Thierklassen. Atlas, Lief. 11, 12, 13. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Brugnone, J. Miscellanea Malacologica. Pars land 2. I.V.Williamson 



Fund. 

 Brush, G. J. and E. D. Dana. On the mineral locality in Fairfield Co., 



Conn. 2d paper. The Authors. 

 Buckton, G. B. British Aphides. Vol. II. Wilson Fund. 

 Bureau of Navigation. Hydrographic Office. List of lights of North and 



South America ; of South and East Coast of Africa and the East 



Indies. Hydrographic Office. 

 Bureau of Statistics, Treasury Department, Quarterly report, Sept. 30, 1878, 



to June 30, 1879. The Department. 

 Butler, A. G. Lepidoptera heterocera in British Museum. Part II. The 



Trustees of the Museum. 

 Calkins, W. W. Marine shells of Florida. The Author. 

 Candeze, E. Elaterides nouveaux. The Author. 

 Capellini, G. II calcare di leitha il Sarmatiano. 

 Prehnite dei Monti Livornesi. 



Pietro Leccese e di alcuni suoi fossili. The Author. 

 Capus, G. Guide du naturaliste preparateur. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Central Park Menagerie, report of Director, 1878. The Author. 

 Cerna, D. Phenol (Carbolic Acid), its poisonous effects, and the soluble 



sulphates as antidotes. 

 Thevetia iccotli and its glucoside. The Author. 

 Certes, M. A. Methode de conservation des infusoires. The Author. 

 Chamberlain, T. C. Wisconsin Geol. Surv., Report, 1877. 



Wisconsin Kettle Moraine. Report of Wisconsin Geological Survey, 



1878. The Author. 

 Chief of Engineers, Reports, 1878, Pts. 1 , 2, 3. The War Department. 

 Chief of Ordnance, Annual report, 1878. War Department. 

 Chili. Memoires of the Departments and seven other volumes. University 



of Chili. 

 Church, J. A. Heat of the Comstock Mines, 1878. The Author. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 461 



Cincinnati Society of Natural History, Zoological nomenclature. The 



Author. 

 Clarke, W. B. Sedimentary formations of New South Wales. 4th Ed. 



The Author. 

 Cogniaux, A. Cucurbitacees nouvelles. 1 and 2 Fasc. The Author. 

 Coim, P. Kryptogamen-Flora von Schlesien. 2er Bd., le and 2e H. I. 



V. Williamson Fund. 

 Colvin, V. Survey of Adirondack Wilderness, N. Y., 1873. In exchange. 

 Commissioner of Agriculture, letter relative to the manufacture of maize 

 and sorghum sugars. 

 Reports of 1877 and 1878. The Author. 

 Comptroller of the currency, report, 1878. John J. Knox. 

 Commissioners of Education, report, 1877. The Bureau of Education. 

 Commissioners of Public Charities of Penna. 9th report. The Commis- 

 sioners. 

 Conant, A. J. Foot-prints of vanished races in the Mississippi Valley. I. 



V. Williamson Fund. 

 Contributions from the E. M. Museum of geology and archeology of Prince- 

 ton College. No. 2. The College. 

 Cooper, E. Forest culture and the Eucalyptus trees. The Author. 

 Cooper, J. G. Notes on some land-shells of the Pacific Slope. The Au- 

 thor. 

 Cope, E. D. Eleventh contribution to the herpetology of tropical America. 

 The modern museum. 

 Genera of Felidse and Canidae. 

 Contributions to the zoology of Montana. 

 Extinct species of Rhinoceridag of North America. 

 Palteontological Bulletin, No. 30. 

 Theromorphous reptilia. The Author. 

 Coquand, M. H. Geologie de rArrondissement de Corte. 



Notice geologique sur les environs de Pandermo. Tlie Author. 

 Cotter, J. C. B. Contributes para o conhecimento da Fauna terciaria de 



Portugal. The Author. 

 Costa, O. G. Microdoride Mediterraneo. T. 1. 



Molluschi del Regno di Napoli, 3G plates. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Coutance, A. Structure musculaire chez les Mollusques acephales. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Cox, E. T. Geological Survey of Indiana, 8th, 9th, and 10th annual re- 

 ports. John Collett. 

 Coxe, R. S. Life and character of Gen. Wm. Henry Harrison. T. R. 



Peale. 

 Crepin, F. Fragments paleontolo^iques pour servir a la flore du. terrain 

 houillier de Belgique. ler Fragment. 

 Note sur le Pecopteris odontopteroides. 

 Plantes fossiles des depots Devoniens. 



Materiaux pour servir a l'histoire des roses. 4me Fasc. The Author. 

 Cresson, E. T. North American Aphidse, with description of new species. 



The Author. 

 Cressy, Noah. Bezoar Stones, Calculi and other animal concretions, The 



Author. 

 Crowther, H. Whitby. The Author. 

 Curators of the Museum of Wesleyan University, eighth annual report, 



1879. The Authors. 

 Curioni, G. Geologia. Pts. 1 and 2. 1877. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 

 Dall, W. H. Alaska and its resources, 1870 I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Use of the generic name Gouldia in zoology. 

 Californian species of Fusns 



New species of mollusks from the northwest coast of America. The 

 Author. 




462 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Dana, J. D. Manual of mineralogy and geology. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Some points in lithology. The Author. 



Darlington, VV. American "weeds and useful plants, 1859. Chas. F. Parker. 



Davenport, G. E. Catalogue of the Davenport herbarium of North Ame- 

 rican ferns. The Author. . 



Dawkins, Boyd. Our earliest ancestors in Britain. 



Range of the mammoth in space and time. The Author. 



Dawson, J. W. New species of Loftusia. 



Microscopic structure of Stromatoporidae, and on palaeozoic fossils min- 

 eralized with silicates in illustration of Eozoon. The Author. 



De Hart, J. M. Antiquities and platycnemism of the mound builders of 

 Wisconsin. The Author. 



Dennis, G. Cities and cemeteries of Etruria. 2 vols. I. V. Williamson 

 Fund. 



Department of Agriculture, special Reports Nos. 10-15, 17. Hon. W. G. 

 Le Due. 



Department of Mines, New South Wales, report, 1878. Government of 

 New South Wales. 



Dodge, R. I. The Black Hills, 1876. In exchange. 



Drainage Map showing a portion of Wyoming, Idaho, and Utah. Depart- 

 ment of Interior. 



Dufrenoy et Elie de Beaumont, MM. Voyage metallurgique en Angleterre. 

 Planches, 1827. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 



Dumortier, B. C. Embryogenie des mollusques gasteropodes. Dr. F. V. 

 Hayden. 



Durand, Theo. Flore Liegeoise. The Author. 



Earl, G. W. Native races of the Indian Archipelago, 1853. In exchange. 



Eaton, D. C. Ferns of North America. Pts. 10-21. J. H. Redfield. 



Eimer, Th. Die Medusen. I. V. Williamson Fund. * 



Eisenach, H. Uebersicht der Bisher in der Umgegend von Cassel beobach- 

 teten Pilze. The Author. 



Ely, H. Geology in the garden. 1859. In exchange. 



Elsass-Lothringen. Abhandhmgen zur geologischen Specialkarte. Bd. 2, 

 1. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 



Elliot, D. G. Monograph of Bucerotidn?. Pts. 4-6. 

 Monograph of Felidse. Pts. 1-4. Wilson Fund. 

 Classification and synopsis of the Trochilidse. Smithsonian Institution. 



Encyclopedia Britannica. 9th Ed. Vol. IX. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Encyclopedic Methodique. Insectes et vers. Vols. 8-9, 11-14 text ; Vols. 

 8, 9, 11-13 atlas. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 



Encyclopaedic der Naturwissenschaften. le Abth. 1-5 Lief. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 



Enklaar, J. E. Verdamping van Water van Onderscheidene Gronden on- 

 der Verschillende Omstandigheden. Utrecht Society of Arts and 

 Sciences. 



Exposition internationale d'Horticulture organisee par la Societe Royale de 



Flore, Rapports. The Society. 

 Eyferth, B. Schizophyten und Flagellaten, 1879. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Finsch, O. Reise nach West-Sibirien. 1 and 2 Abth. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Fischer & Crosse, MM. Mission, scientifique an Mexique. Recherches 

 zoologiques. 7mepartie. Etudes surles mollusques. The Authors. 

 Fischer, P. Distribution geographique des brachiopodes et des mollusques 



du littoral oceanique de la France. The Authors. 

 Flower, W. H. Specimens illustrating the osteology and dentition of ver- 

 tebrated animals, in the Museum of t lie Royal College of Surgeons 

 of England. Pt, 1, Homo. The Author. 

 Foster-Firmin Gold and Silver Manufacturing Co. The Company. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 4G3 



Foster and Whitney's Lake Superior. Part 2, 2 Vols. Edw. Stroud. 

 Franklin Fire Insurance Company. Semi-centennial Celebration, 1879. 



The Company. 

 Gegenbauer, C. Comparative Anatomy. Transl. by T. Jeffrey Bell, 1879. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Geikie, A. Elementary lessons in physical geology. 



Field Geology. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Gentb, F. A. North Carolina Uranium minerals. The Author. 

 Geological Record, 1874-76. The Editor. 

 Geological Survey of Canada. Report of progress for 1877-78. The 



Survey. 

 Geological Survey of India. Records, Vol. XL, Pt. 1 ; Vol. XII., Pt. 1. 

 Memoirs, 8vo., Vol. XIV. and Vol. XV., Pt. 1. 

 Memoirs, 4to. Palaeontologia Indica. Ser. IV., Vol. I., Pt. 3 ; Ser. 



XII. 1. 

 Contents and index of the first ten volumes of the Records of the Geo- 

 logical Survev of India, 18G8-1877. The Survey. 

 Geological Survey of Pennsylvania. Reports D 2 , E, F, G, 0, P. V. & M 2 . 



The Survey. 

 Gilbert, G. K. Report of the geology of the Henry Mountains. Depart- 

 ment of the Interior. 

 Goette, A. Gliedmassen-Skelets der Molche. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Gorringe, H. H. Coast of Brazil, I. 



West ('oast of Africa, I. In Exchange. 

 Gosselet, M. J. Le calcaire devonien superieur dans le X. E. de l'arron- 

 dissement d'Avesnes. 

 Le calcaire de Givet, 3me et 4me partie. 

 Gosselet, M. J. and Henri Rigaux. Mouvement du sol de la Flandre depuis 



les temps geologiques. The Author. 

 Grandidier, A. Histoire physicpie, etc. de Madagascar. Vols. XII. XIII. 



and XIV. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Gratiolet, P. Plis cerebraux de rhomme et des primates. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 

 Gray, Asa. Botanical text-book. 6th Ed., Pt. 1. Structural Botany. 



I. V. AVilliamson Fund. 

 Gray, A. State Board of Agriculture, Kansas, 1st biennial report. 

 Monthly reports, Sept. -Dec. 1878. 



Quarterly report, March 31, 1879. June 30, 1879. The Author. 

 Gray, J. H. China. 2 Vols. 1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Green, Miall, etc. Coal. 1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Grenadier, H. Sehorgan der Arthropoden. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Grisebach, A. H. R. Genera et species Gentianearum. 1839. J. H. Red- 

 field. 

 Gronovius, J. Historia Indica. 1706. In Exchange. 

 Gross, S. D. Obituary notice of Isaac Hays, M.D. The Author. 

 Grote, A. R. On Lithophane and new Noctuidre. The Author. 

 Gscheidlen. Physiologische Methodic. 4e Lief. 

 Guppy, R. J. L. . West Indian tertiary fossils. Henry Vendryes. 

 Habel, S. Sculpture of Santa Lucia Cosumalwhuapa in Guatemala. 



Smithsonian Institution. 

 Haeckel, E. Evolution of Man. 2 Vols. 1879. 

 Generelle Morphologie der Organismen. 2 Vols. 

 Populare Vortrage. 1st Heft. 1878. I. V. AVilliamson Fund. 

 Halsted, B. D. American species of Characese. The Author. 

 Harpe, P. dela. Xummulites appertenant a la zone superieure desFalaises 

 de Biarritz. 

 Xummulites du Conte de Nice. 

 Nummulites des environs de Nice et de Menton. The Author. 




404 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Hayden. Sun pictures of the Rocky Mountains. 



The so-called Two-Ocean Pass. The Author. 

 Hayes, I. I. Land of desolation, 1872. In Exchange. 

 Hubert, Edm. Fossiles de la craie do nord de l'Europe. 



Observations sur le terrain quaternaire. The Author. 

 Hector, J. Colonial Museum and Geological Survey of New Zealand. 13th 



report. The Author. 

 Geological Survey of New Zealand. Meteorological report, 1877. Re- 

 ports of geological explorations, 1877-78. The Director. 

 Heer, O. Flora fossilis artica. 5 Bd. 1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Henle, J. Handbuch der systematischen Anatomic des Menschen. 2 Bd. 



3Lf.,3Bd. land2Abtli. Wilson Fund. 

 Zur anatomic der Crystallinse. The Author. 

 Henry, J. iEneidea. 1873-78. Vol. II., continued. The Author. 

 Herman, L. Handbuch der physiologic ler Bd., ler Th. 2 Bd., 1 Th. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Heude, R. P. Conchyliologiefluviatilede la Province de Nanking et de la 



Chine centrale. 4me F. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hcwitson. Wm. C. Illustrations of Diurnal Lepidoptera. Pts. 2, 5 and 8. 



Wilson Fund. 

 Hidalgo, J. G. Moluscos marinos de Espana, etc. Ent. 13 y 14. 

 Mollusques terrestres des lies Baleares. 



Coquilles terrestres de l'Amerique meridionale. The Author. 

 Hieroglyphic history of the City of Mexico. T. R. Peale. 

 Higgins. H. H. Mollusca of the Argo Expedition to the West Indies, 1876. 



The Author. 

 Hildebrand, F. Die Farben der Bliithen in ihrer jetzigen Variation und 



fiiiheren Entwicklung. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hilgard, E. W., and Dr. F. V. Hopkins. Report upon specimens obtained 



from bonnes, 1878. War Department. 

 Hjelt, O. E. A. Carl von Linne. The Author. 

 Hockstetter, F. v. Neuen gcologischen Aufschluss in Gebiete der Karls- 



bader Thermen, 1878. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 

 Hoffmann, C. A. S. Handbuch der mineralogie. 2 a, 2 b, 3, 3 b, 4 a, b. 



. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 

 Hoffman, W. J. "Turtle-Back" celts in the District of Columbia. 



Mineralogy of Nevada. The Author. 

 Hofmann, K. B. Lehrbuch der Zoochemie. 3e. H. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Hoist, E. Ora Poncelet's Betydning for Geometrien. The Author. 

 Hooker, J. D., and J. Bell. 'Tour in Marocco, 1878. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Hooker, J. D. Flora of British India. Pt. VI. The Author. 

 Hoppe-Seyler, F. Physiologische Chemie. 3 Th. I. V. Willianson Fund. 

 Humphreys, J. T. Natural History notes in Burke and Catawba Counties, 



N. C. The Author. 

 International Exhibition, Fairmount Park, official bulletin, 1869. 

 Issel, A., and C. Tapparone Canefri. Strombidi del Mar Rosso. The 



Authors. 

 .Tacquin, N. J. Observationum botanicarum, 1764. In Exchange. 

 James, T. P. New species of North American mosses. Catalogue, Musci. 



The Author. 

 Jan, Prof. Iconographie ireneraledesOphidiens. 49c. Livr. Wilson Fund. 

 Jeffreys. J. G. Reply to Prof. Verrill. 



Mollusca procured during the Lightning and Porcupine Expeditions, 



1868-70. Pt. 1. The Author. 

 Jekel, K. Catalogue of Insects, 1879. The Author. 

 Jellett, J. H. Address before the Royal Irish Academy, 1870. The Author. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 465 



Jensen, O. S. Turbellaria ad Litora Norvegise occidentalis. Bergen 



Museum. 

 Jhering, H. von. Peripherischc Nervensystem der Wirbelthiere, 1878. I. 



V. Williamson Fund. 

 Jimenez, F. and L. Fernandez. Determination de la longitud del pendulo 



de segundos y de la gravidad en Mexico a 2283m. sobre et nivel del 



mar. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 

 Johns Hopkins University. Chesapeake Zoological Laboratory. Scientific 



results of the session of 1878. 

 Jordan, D. S. Manual of the vertebrates of the northern United States. 



2d Ed., 1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Julien, A. A. Fissure-inclusions in the fibrolitic gneiss of New Rochelle, 



N. Y. The Author. 

 Just, L. Botanischer Jahresbericht. 5er Jahrg., ler und2e Abth. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Kempf, M. The wandering Cainidse. The Author. 

 Kessler, H. F. Lebensgeschichte der auf Ulnius campestris L. vorkom- 



menden Apb.iden-A.rten. The Author. 

 King, C. U. S. Geol. Expl. of 40th par. Vol. I. Systematic geology. 



Engineer Department, U. S. A. 

 Kjerulf. T. Om Stratifikationes Spor. The Author. 

 Klapp, W. H. Effects of strychnia. The Author. 

 Klein, E.. and E. N. Smith. Atlas of Histology. Parts I.-VIII. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Klunzinger, C. B. Koralthiere des Rothen Meeres. 2es Th. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Kobelt, W. Synopsis novorum generum, specierum et varietatum mollus- 



corum viventium Testaceorum. The Author. 

 Illustrirtes Conchylienbuch. 6e and 7e, Lief. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Catalogue der Gattung Cominella. The Author. 

 Koch, L. "Entwicklung der Crassulaceen. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Kcenig, Geo. A. Preliminary notice on Chromometry. The Author. 

 Kokscharow, 1ST. v. Mineralogie Russlands, 8er Bd. Lfr. 1-32. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Kolliker, A. Entwickl. des Mensehen und der hoheren Thiere. 2e Aufl., 



2e Halfte. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Icones Histiological. le Abth. Wilson Fund. 

 Lawrence, G. N. Birds of Grenada, collection made by F. A. Ober. 

 Birds collected at Martinique by F. W. Ober. 

 Birds noted from the Islands of the Lesser Antilles, visited by Mr. Fred. 



A. Ober. 

 Birds obtained in Guadeloupe by Mr. Fred. A. Ober. 

 Birds of Antigua and Bermuda. New species of Cypselidse. The 



Author. 

 Laws, J. B. Is higher farming a remedy for lower prices? 



Field and other experiments conducted in the laboratory of. The 



Author. 

 Ledoux, A. R. Silica v. ammonia. 



Analyses of Fertilizers, 1877-78. Dep. of Agriculture, N. C. 

 Lenhossek, J. von. Die kiinstlichen Schadelverbildungen ein allgemeinen 



und zwei kiinstlich verbikk-te Makrocephale Schadel aus Ungarn. 



1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Letter from Secretary of War on lines of communication between Colorado 



and Mexico. Lieut. C. A. H. McCauley. 

 Leuckart, R. Menschlichen Parasiten. 2 Bd., 1-3 Lief. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 

 Levy, P. Notas geograficas y economicas sobre la Republica de Nicara- 

 gua. I. V. Williamson Fund. 




466 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Lewes. Q. II. Problems of life and mind. 3d Series. I. V. Williamson 

 Fund. 



Librarian of Congress, report, 1878. The Author. 



Light-house Board, report, 1878. The Treasury Dep. 



Lister. M. Historise animalium Angliae tres tactatus, 1678. Dr. F. Harden. 



Locard, A. Museum d'histoire naturelle de Lyon, Guide aux collections 

 de zoologie, geologie et mineralogie. 

 Des ravages causes par le Liparis dispar. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 



Low, D. Domesticated animals of the British Islands, 1853. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 



Lockington, W. N. Flounders of our market. The Author. 



Lubbock, J. Scientific lectures. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Lyman, B. S. Geological survey of Japan. Report of second year's pro- 

 gress of the survey of the Oil Lands of Japan. The Author. 



Macalister, Alex. Introduction to the systematic zoology and morphology 

 of vertebrate animals. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Zoology of vertebrate animals, 1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



McCaule}', C. A. H. Ornithology of the region about the source of the 

 Red River of Texas. The Author. 

 Explorations in and about Pagosa Springs, Colorado, 1879. The 

 Author. 



McCook, H. C. Natural history of the agricultural ant of Texas. The 

 Author. 



McDonald, M. Semi-annual report of Virginia Military Institute, 1879. 

 The Author. 



Macfarlane, Jas. American geological railway guide. I. V. Williamson 

 Fund. 



McLachlan, R. Trichoptera of the European fauna. Pt. 8. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 



Mallet, L. Reciprocity. Cobden Club. 



Mangin, A. Desert World, 1872. In Exchange. 



Mantell, G. A. Petre fact ions and their teachings, 1831. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 

 Atlas of fossil remains, 1850. In Exchange. 



Manual of the principal instruments used in American engineering and sur- 

 veying. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Maps of Guatemala, Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and Santa Domingo. 

 I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Marratt, F. P. Variations of sculpture in shells of the genus Nassa. 

 New form of Gladius, Klein. 

 Forty proposed new forms of the genus Nassa. The author. 



Marsh, O. C. Vertebra of recent birds. 

 Additional characters of the Sauropoda. 

 A new order of extinct reptiles (Sauranodonta). Pt. II. 

 Polydactyle horses. 

 History and methods of palreontological discovery. The Author. 



Matheron, Ph. Recherches paleontologiques dans le Midi de la France. 

 Livr. 5 and 6. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 



Martin, Ch. Temperature de Pair, de la terre et de l'eau au Jardin des 

 Plantes de Montpellier. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 



Martin, K. Die Tertiarschichten auf Java. Palajontologischer Theil. I. 

 Lief. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Martini und Chemnitz. Systematisches Conchylien Cabinet. Lief. 274-283. 

 Wilson Fund. 



Martindale, J. C. Colorado plants. The Author. 



Maury, M. F. Physical geography of the sea, 1859. In exchange. 



Medical and surgical history of the war of the rebellion. Part 2, Vol. 1. 

 Medical History. Second issue. Surgeon-General U. S. A. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 4G? 



Meddicott, H. B. Manual of the geology of India. 2 vols, and atlas. 



Geological Survey of India. . 

 Median, Thomas. Native flowers and ferns of the United States. Vol. 2, 

 Pts. 13-24. The Publishers. 

 Pinus pungens. The Author. 



Production of seed in Wistaria sinensis. The Author. 

 Mercantile Library Association, Philadelphia. 2(ith report. The Authors. 

 Mercantile Library Association, New York. 58th report. The Authors. 

 Message of the President upon negotiations with the Ute Indians. Lieut. 



"C. A. H. McCauley. 

 Message of the President of United States Pts. 1-4, 1861-2. Edw. Stroud. 

 Message of the President of the United States on the subject of sheep hus- 

 bandry, 1878. Dep. of Agriculture. 

 Miall, L. 0. and F. Greenwood. Studies in comparative anatomy. No. 

 II. Anatomy of the Indian elephant. Philosophical and Literary 

 Soc. of Leeds. 

 Mickleborough, J. and A. G. Wetherby. Lower Silurian fossils. Cincin- 

 nati Group. 1878. J. Mickleborough. 

 Miller, S. H. Prize essay on evaporation. Utrecht Society of Arts and 

 . Sciences. 



Milne Edwards, H. Lemons sur la phvsiologie et l'anatomie comparee. T. 



0, Fasc. 1, T. 10, T. 13me, Ire 'and 2e P. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Ministere des travaux publiques. Direction des Mines. Statistique de l'in- 



dustrie minerale et des appareils a vapeur en France et en Algerie. 



Dr. F. V. Hayden. 



Mission scientifique au Mexique et dans l'Amerique Centrale. Recherches 



zool. 3me Partie, 4tne et 7nie Partie. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Modern meteorology. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Muller, V. v. Spiral-Gewundenen Foraminiferen des Russischen Kohlen- 

 kalks. 

 Paliiontologische Beitrage. The Author. 

 Moleschott, Jac. Untersuciiungen zur Naturlehre des Menschen und der 



Thiere. 10 Bd. 4 H.-ll Bd. 2 H. Wilson Fund. 

 Molina, F. Bosquejo de la Republica de Costa Rica. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Moncel, Count du. Telephone, microphone, and phonograph. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Morren, Ch. Fleurs nationales de Belgique. 



Mouvement et l'anatomie du labellum du Megalinium falcatum. 

 Mouvement et l'anatomie du style du Goldfussia anisophylla. The 

 Author. 

 Morren, Ed. L'energie de la vegetation. 



Plantes carnivores et irritables. The Author. 

 Moseley, H. N. Notes of a Naturalist on the "Challenger." I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Moulton, M. M. Meteorological Reports, 1878. The Author. 

 Mueller, F. von. Native plates of Victoria. Pt. 1. 



Fragmenta phytographite Australia;. Vols. 1, 3, 4, 5, and 6. Dr. F. 

 V. Hayden. 

 Miinster, George Graf zu. Petrefactenkunde. H. 1-7. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Mulsant, E. and CI. Rey. Histoire naturelles des coleopteres de France. 



Six parts. E. Mulsant. 

 Museum d'histoire naturelle, rapports, 1878. The Museum. 

 Museum Godeffrov, Journal. Heft. XIV. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Museum of practical geology, catalogue of library, 1878. The British 



Government. 

 Nachtigal, G. Sahara und Sudan, ler Th. I. V. Williamson Fund. 




468 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Nanaur, A. Tables de logarithmes. The Author. 



Napp, R. La Republica Argentina, 1876. Argentine Centennial Commis- 

 sion. 



Nathorst, A. G. Om Floran i Skaues Kolforande Bildningar. I. Floran 

 vid Bjuf. la Haftet. Geological Survey of Sweden. 



National Academy of Sciences, Report on Scientific Surveys. The Acad- 

 emy. 



Nevill, G. Mollusca in the Indian Museum, Calcutta. Pt. I. Gastropoda. 

 Trustees of Museum. 



Newberry, J. S. Geographical Survey of the Fortieth Parallel. 

 New palseozoic fishes. The Author. 



New Jersey, Geological Survey of, Report, 1878. G. H. Cook. 



New York State Library, 58th-61st annual reports. The Trustees. 



New York State Museum of Natural History, 27th, 29th, and 30th annual 

 reports. The Trustees 



Nusslin, 0. Anatomie und Physiologic der Pulmonaten. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 



Observations meteorolo<riques des Stations du second ordre dans les Pavs- 

 Bas, 1876. The Utrecht Observatory. 



Ochsenius and diaper, MM. Rapport sur les mines et founderies d'argeut 

 de Bingham. 3 pamphlets. Dr. F. V. Playden. 



Owen's Geological Survey of Wisconsin, Iowa, and Minnesota. Edw. 

 Stroud. 



Palfeontographica, 25er Bd. 6e Lief., Suppl. III., Lief. I. Heft. 3, Lief. II. 

 H. 2 ; Lief. III. H. 3, 26er Bd., 1 und 2 Lief. Wilson Fund. 



Palreontographical Society's Publications. Vol. 33. Wilson Fund. 



Paleontologie franc.aise, le Ser., An. Inv., Ter. Juras. Livr. 28, 40, 41. 2e 

 Serie, Vegetaux Ter. Jur. Livr. 26. 27, 28. Wilson Fund. 



Paulucei, M. Faune malacologique de l'ltalie, 1878. I. V. Williamson 

 Fund. 



Pavesi, F., de Insubrum agricolarum in Transatlanticas regiones demigra- 

 tione. Academy of Sciences of Amsterdam. 



Peale, A. C. The Laramie Group of Western AVyoming and adjacent re- 

 gions. 

 Jura-trias section of Southeastern Idaho and Western Wyoming. The 

 Author. 



Pennsylvania Hospital, report of Managers. 1879. The Authors. 



Pfaff, F. Naturkrafte in den Alpen. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 



Novitates Conchologicaj. I. Abth., Lief. 55, Schluss. Wilson Fund. 

 Nomenclator heliceorum viventium. 1, 2, 3, and 4 Lief. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 



Pickering, Chas. Chronological history of plants. Mrs. Chas. Pickering. 



Pihl, O. A. L. On magnets. The Author. 



Plateau, F. Circulation chez les animaux articules, 1878. The Author. 



Polar Colonization. Memorial to Congress. H. W. Howgate. 



Polk. L. L. Fish Culture in North Carolina. The Author. 

 Report, 1877-78. Dep. of Agriculture, N. C. 



Portugal, ideological map of. The Geological Survey. 



Powell, J. W. Report on the lands of the arid regions of the United States. 

 Department of the Interior. 



Prime, F., Jr. Catalogue of official reports upon Geological Surveys of the 

 United States and Territories and of British North America. The 

 Author. 



Quredvlieg, L. Entomologie pratique. The Author. 



Quatrefages, A. De. The human species. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Radcliffe, C. B. Proteus, 1877. 2d Ed. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Rae, J. Railways of New South Wales. Government of New South 

 Wales. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 469 



Rand, E. S. Rhododendon and American plants, 1871. Tn exchange. 

 Ranvier, L. Traite technique d'histologie. 5me Pasc. I. Y. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Rathhun, R. Brazilian corals and coral reefs. 



Brazilian echinoderms, with notes on their distribution. The Author. 

 Raulin, V. Description physique et naturelle de l'lle de Crete. 2 vols. 



and atlas. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 

 Regel, E. Descriptiones plantarum novarum et minus cognitarum. Fasc. 



VI. The Author. 

 Reid, M. C. Inscribed stone of Grave Creek Mound. The Author. 

 Reinhardt, J. Beskrivelse af Hovedskallen af et Krempedovendyr, Gry- 



potherium darwinii. Dr F. V. Hayden. 

 Reiusch, P. F. Fresh water algae collected by Rev. A. C. Eaton. The 



Author. 

 Rhees, Win. J. Smithsonian Institution ; Documents relative to its origin 



and history. The Institution. 

 Rodwell, G. F. Etna, 1878. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Rogers, H. R. Theories of the great physical forces. The Author. 

 Rossmassler's Iconographie der europaischen Land and Susswasser Mol- 



lusker. 6 Bd. 4-6 Lf. Wilson Fund. 

 Rothrock, J. T. U. S. Geogr. Surv. west of the 100th Mer. Report. Vol. 



IV. Botany. Engineer Department, U. S. A. 

 Royal Society of scientific papers. Vol. 8. The Society. 

 Rnfmer, E. H. Annual report upon explorations and surveys in the Dep. 



of the Missouri. Lieut. C. A. H. McCauley. 

 Russ, K. Fremdlandischen Stubenvbgel. 3 Bd. 1-6 L. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Russell, I. C. Geological Museum of the School of Mines, Columbia Col- 

 lege. 

 A new form of compass-clinometer. The Author. 

 Rutgers Scientific School Report, 1878. G. H. Cook. 

 Rutley, F. Study of rocks. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Ryder, J. A. Remarkable new genus of giant sloths (review). 

 New genus of minute Pauropod Myriapod. 

 Successive appearance of Chirocephalus and Streptocephalus in the 



same pond, etc. The Author. 

 Saporta, Comte de. Le monde des plantes avant Tapparition de Thomme, 



1879. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Sars, G. O. Bidrag til kundskaben om Norges arkteske Fauna, I. Mol- 



lusca. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Mollusca regionis Arcticre Norwegian. The Author. 

 Scheffler, H. Warme und Elastizitat. The Author. 



Scheler, Aug. Histoirede la maison de Saxe-Cobourg-Gotha. The Author. 

 Scherzcr, C. Wanderungeu dnrch die Mittel-Amerikanischen Freistaaten 



Nicaragua, Honduras und San Salvador, 1857. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Schiodte, J. C. Zoologia Danica. le Hefte. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Schlagintweit-Sakunliinski, H. von. Auftreten von Bor-Verbindungen in 



Tibet, 1874. The Author. 

 Schliiter, Wm. Preis-Verzeichniss verkiiuflicher europaischer und exo- 



tischer Vogeleier. The Author. 

 Schmidt, A. Atlas der Diatomaccen-Kunde. 15es and 16es H. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Schmidt, O. Spougien des Meerbusen von Mexico, les H. Alex. Agassiz. 

 Spongien des adriatischen Meeres. 2es, 3es Supplement. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Schneider, A. Vergleichenden Anatomie und Entvdcklungsgeschichte 



der Wirbelthiere, 1879. I. V. Williamson Fund. 




470 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Schneider, O. Der Kaukasttslander, 1878. The Author. 



Schwann, Th. Manifestations en l'honneur de, 1878. The Committee. 



Schwartz. O. Flora Indise occidentalis. T. 1, 2, 3. 1797-1806. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Scudder, S. H. Catalogue of scientific serials. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Secchi, P. A. L'Astronomia iu Roma nel Pontificato di Pio IX. Collegio 



Romano. 

 Second Yarkand Mission, Scientific results. Geology, mollusca, hymenop- 



tera, ichthyology, reptilia and amphibia, neuroptera, 1878. East 



Indian Government. 

 Selle, A. de. Course de mineralogie et de geologic T. ler, text and atlas. 



Dr. F. V. Hayden. 

 Semper, C. Reisen im Archipel der Philippinen. 2er Th., 2er Bd. XIV. 



Heft. Wilson Fund. 

 Sharp, R. B. Catalogue of the birds in the British Museum. Vol. IV. 



The British Museum. 

 Short, Prof. The North Americans of antiquity. Appendix A. Lit. and 



Scient. Soc. of Madisonville, Ohio. 

 Shuttleworth, R. J. Notitire malacologies. II. Heft. Wilson Fund. 

 Siebe, H. Conquest of the sea. In exchange. 



Simmonds, P. L. Commercial products of the sea, 1879. I. V. "William- 

 son Fund. 

 Simpson, Lieut. Report and map of the route from Fort Smith, Arkansas, 



to Santa Fe, N. M. T. R. Peale. 

 Smith, E. F. Calculus found in a deer. Detection of iron by means of 



salicylic acid. 

 On a new base. The Author. 

 Smith, E. F., and Gertrude K. Peirce. Products obtained by nitration of 



Metachlorsalicvlic Acid. The Authors. 

 Smith, Lawrence. Fer natif du Greenland et sur la Dolerite qui la ren- 



ferme. The Author. 

 Smith, W. H. Practical mode of studying the heart. 



Catalogue of reptilia and amphibia of Michigan. The Author. 

 Smithsonian Institution, Annual Report, 1877. 

 Miscellaneous Collections. Vols. 13, 14, 15. 

 List of publications, 1879. The Institution. 

 Snellen, M. Le telemeteorographe d'Olland. The Author. 

 Snow T , F. H. Birds of Kansas. 3d Ed. 1875. Kansas Academy of Sciences. 

 Scciete Royale d 1 Horticulture de Liege. Projet du creer un Jardin d'Accli- 



matation, 1863. The Society. 

 South African Museum, report, 1878. The Trustees. 

 Souverbie, S. M., et R. P. Montrouzier. Description d'especes nouvelles 



de 1' Archipel Calednnien. S. M. Souverbie. 

 Sowerby, G. B. Thesaurus Conchyliorum. Pts. 33 and 34. Murex. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Spencer, H. Data of ethics. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Spratt, T. A. B. Travels in Crete. 2 Vols. 1865. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 

 Stanley, H. M. Through the Dark Continent. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Stansbury's Expedition to, the Great Salt Lake. 2 Vols. Edw. Stroud. 

 Stearns, R. E. C. Certain badly-treated mollusks. 

 Fossil shells from the Colorado Desert. 



Forms of seeds as a factor in natural selection in plants. The Author. 

 Stein, Fr. R. v. Organismus der Infusionsthiere. 3 Abth. 1 Halfte. 



Wilson Fund. 

 Steiner, L. H. Changes required by the present state of medicine. The 



Author. 

 Stinson, J. H. Organon of science, 1879. The Author. 

 Stuart, A. B. Kawi Oorkonden. Batavian Natural History Society. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 471 



Svedmark, E. Halle-och Hunnebergs Trapp. Geological Survey of Sweden. 

 Sveriges Geologiska Undersokning. Ser. Aa. Nos. 03-67. Ser. C. Nos. 26 

 and 28. 8vo. Maps 63-67. 

 Malmfyndigheter Inora Norrbottens Liin. The Geological Survey of 

 Sweden. 

 Tate, R. Adelaide Philosophical Society, Address, 1878. 

 Correlation of the coral-bearing strata of S. Australia. 

 Recent Marginellidse of S. Australia. The Author. 

 Thompson, D. A. W. Hydroid zoophytes from Australia and New Zealand. 



The Author. 

 Thomson, C. G. Hymenoptera Scandinavia?. T. 5. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Thirmen, F. von. Fungi Pomicoli. 1879. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Thomas, C. Seventh report of State Entomologist, Illinois. The Author. 

 Todaro, A. Cultura dei cotoni in Italia. The Author. 

 Toula, F. Geologisch-palaont. Material zur Entwickelungsgeschichte der 



Saugethiere, 1879. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 

 Trautschold, H. Kalkbriiche von Mjatscbkowa. le Hiilfte, Fortsetzung 



und Scbluss. The Author. 

 Trinchese, S. Struttura del sistema nervosa dei Molluschi gasteropodi, 



1871. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Troschel, F. H. Das Gebiss der Schnecken. 2m. Bd., 6e Lief. Wilson 



Fund. 

 Tryon, Geo. W., Jr. Manual of Conchology. Pts. 1-4. The Author. 

 Tyndall, J. Fragments of science. 5th Ed. 



Forms of w T ater in clouds and rivers, ice and glaciers. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 

 United States National Museum, Bulletin No. 12. Department of the In- 

 terior. 

 U. S. Geol. and Geogr. Surv. of Territories. Miscellaneous publications, 

 Nos. 10, 11, and supplement. 

 Bulletin, Vol. IV. No. 4 ; Vol. V. Nos. 1 and 2. 

 Tenth annual report. 

 Report of Field Work, 1877, 1878. 



Catalogue of publications, 3d Ed. Department of Interior. 

 University Convocation of the State of New York. 12th, 13th, and 14th 



anniversaries. The Trustees of State Library. 

 Vest, W. v. Ueber Margaritana Bonellii, Fer. 1866. 



Werth der Mollusken-Gehause fur die Wisse.nsehaften im Allgemeinen. 



Nachtrag zu Margaritana Bonellii, 1867. 



Schliess-Apparat der Clausilien, 1867. 



Myoeardia, KlarT-Herzmuschel. 



Arbreibung der Wirbel bei den Susswassermuscheln insbesondere den 



Unionen. 

 Genera Adacna, Monodacna und Didacna, Eich. 2. The Author. 

 Victoria, Mineral statistics, 1878. Reports of the mining surveyors and 



registrars. 1878 and 1879. Dr. F. V. Hayden, 

 Vollenhoven, S. C. Snellen van. Piuacographia. Pts. 7 and 8. I. V. 



AVilliamson Fund. 

 Wachsmuth, C. and F. Springer. Transition forms in Crinoids. The 



Authors. 

 Wagner, M. Naturwissenschaftliche Reisen im tropischen Amerika, 1870. 



1. V. Williamson Fund, 



Ward, II. A. Notice of the Megatherium Cuvieri in the University of 

 Rochester. 



Notice of the Ward Cabinets, 1863. 



Eighteen catalogues. The Author. 

 Watson, R. B. MoVlusca of H. M. S. "Challenger" Expedition. Pts. 1, 



2, and 3, and Trochida3, continued. The Author. 




4Y2 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Watson, S. Contributions to American botany, IX. The Author. 

 Webster, H. E. Annelida Chsetopoda of the Virginian Coast. The Author. 

 Wetherby, A. G. New family and genus of lower Silurian Crustacea. 



Tlie Author. 

 White, C. A., and II. A. Nicholson. Supplement to bibliography of North 



American invertebrate paleontology. The Author. 

 Whiteaves, J. F. Geological Survey of Canada. Mesozoic fossils, Vol. I. 



The Survey. 

 Whitney, J. D. Earthquakes, volcanoes, and mountain-building. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Wiedersheim, R. Anatomie der Gymnophionen. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Williamson, J. Fern etchings. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Williamson, R. S. Use of the barometer on surveys and reconnoissances. 



War Department. 

 Willshire, W. H. The principles of botany, 183!). Dr. F. V. Hayden. 

 Wilson, Jos. Naval Hygiene. 2d Ed. The Author. 

 Woman's Medical College of Pennsylvania. 13th announcement, 1879-80. 



The Trustees. 

 Yarrell, Wm. A history of British birds. 4th Ed. Part XII. I.V.Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Young Men's Mercantile Library Association of Cincinnati, 44th annual 



report. The Directors. 

 Zoological Record, Vol. XIV. Wilson Fund. 

 Zittel, K. A. Handbuch der Palseontologie. 1 Bd. 2 H. ; 2 Bd. 1. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Studieu liber fossile Spongien. 3e Abth. The Author. 



JOURNALS AND PERIODICALS. 



Adelaide. Philosophical Society. Transactions, etc., 1877-8. The Society. 

 Amsterdam. K. Akademie van Wetenschappen. Verslagen en Mededee- 

 lingen, Afd. Letterkunde, 2e Reeks, 7 Deel. Afd. Naturkunde, 2e 

 Reeks, 12 and 13 Deel. 

 Jaarboek, 1877. 



Processen-Verbaal. Afd. Natuur. Mai 1877-Apr. 1878. 

 Verhandlingen, Deel 18. The Society. 

 Atco. Our Rush Light. May, 1879. The Editor. 



Auxerre. Societe des Sciences historiques et naturelles de l'Yonne. Bul- 

 letin, 33e vol. The Society. 

 Baltimore. American Chemical "Journal. Vol. I. No. 1. The Editor. 

 American Journal of Mathematics. Vol. I., No. 4.-Vol. II., No. 2. 



The Editor. 

 Peabody Institute, 12th annual report. The Institute. 

 Batavia. Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen. Verhandelingeu, 

 Deel 37, 38, and Deel 39, le Stuk. Tijdschrift, Deel 21, Afl. 3-6; 

 D. 22, Afl. 1-6 ; D. 23, Afl. 1-4; D. 24, Afl. 4 and 5. Notulen, D. 

 12, Nos. 1-4 ; D. 13, Nos. 1-4 ; D. 14, No. 1 ; D. 15, No. 1. The 

 Society. 

 Natuurkundig Vereen in Nederlandsch Indie. Tijdscrift. Deel 14, 

 15, 16. The Society. 

 Belfast. Naturalist's Field Club. Annual Report, 1876-77 ; Ser. 2, Vol. 

 I. Pt. 4. The Society. 

 Natural History and Philosophical Society. Proceedings, Session 

 1877-1878. The Society. 

 Berlin. Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte, 42e Jahrg. 6 Heft ; 43e Jahrg. 5 H. ; 

 44 Jahrg. 4 H. ; 45 Jahrg. 1-3 H. The Editor. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 473 



Botanischer Verein der Provinz Brandenberg. Verhandlungen, 19er 



Jahrg. The Society. 

 Deutsche gcologische Gesellschaft. Zeitschrift, 30 Bd. 3 H.-31 Bd. 1 



H The Society. 

 Entomologische Verein. Zeitschrift 22er Jahrg. 2 H. ; 23er Jahrg. 



les H. The Society. 

 Gesellschaft Naturforschender Freundc Sitzungs-berichte, 1878. The 



Society. 

 K. Preussischen Akademie der Wissenschaften. Monatsbericht, 1878, 



Sept.-1879, Juni. 

 Abhandlungen, mathematische, 1877, 1878 ; physikalische, 1877, 1878. 



The Society. 

 Naturae Novitates, 1879, Nos. 1-18. The Publishers. 

 Der Naturforscher. 11 Jahrg. 40-12 Jahrg. 26. The Editor 

 Verein zur Beforderung des Gartenbaues. Monatsschrift, 21 Jalirg., 



Jan. -Dec. The Society. 

 Zeitschrift fur die gesammten Naturwissenschaften. 3e Folge, Bd. 3. 

 The Society. 

 Bern. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Mittheiluugen, Nos. 923-936. The 



Society. 

 Bologna. Accademia delle Scienze. Memorie, Ser. 3, S. 7 and 8 ; and S. 

 9, Fasc. 1 and 2. 

 Rendiconti, 1876-77, 1877-78. The Society. 

 Bonn. Archiv fur mikroskopische Anatomic 16es Bd. les H.-17er Bd., 

 2es H. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Naturhistorische Verein. Verhandlungen, 33er Jahrg. 2e H.-35er 

 Jahrg. 1 H. The Author. 

 Bordeaux. Academie Rationale des Sciences, Belles Lettres et Arts. 

 Actes, 3e Ser. 35e-39e, Annee. Table Hist. etc. The Society. 

 Societe Linneenne. Actes T. 32, Livr. 1-T. 33, Livr. 2. The Society. 

 Societe des Sceinces physiques et naturelles. Memoires, 2e Ser. T. 2, 

 3e Cahier-T. 2, 2e Cah. The Society. 

 Boston. Society of Natural History. Proceedings, Vol. 19, Pt. 4. -Vol. 20, 

 page 272. 

 Memoirs, Vol. 3, Pt. 1, Nos. 2 and 3. The Society. 

 Braunschweig. Archiv fur Anthropologic, 11 Bd. 3es Viertelj.-12 Bd. les 



Vierlelj. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Bremen. Natunvissenschaftliche Verein. Abhandlungen, 6 Bd., 1. The 



Society, 

 Bristol. Naturalists 1 Society. Proceedings, Vol. 2, Pt. 3. The Society. 

 Brooklyn. Entomological Society. Bulletin, Vol. 1, No. 7- Vol. 2, No. 3. 



The Society. 

 Brunn. Naturforschenden Verein. Verhandlungen, 15 and 16. The So- 

 ciety. 

 Bruxelles. Academie Royale des Sciences, des Lettres et des Beaux-Arts 

 de Belgique. Annales, 1877-1878. 

 Bulletin, 2me Ser. T. 41-44. 

 Memoires couronnes, 8vo. T. 27. 

 Memoires couronnes, 4to. T. 40. The Society. 

 Societe Beige de Microscopic Bulletin, 31 Oct. 1878-25 Sept. 1879. 

 Annales, T. 3. The Society. 

 Societe Entomologique de Belgique. Compte-Rendu, Ser. 2, Nos. 58, 



59, and 64. 

 Annales, T. 21. The Society. 

 Societe Malacologique. Annales, T. 11. Proces-Verbaux, T. 6 and 



7. The Society. 

 Societe Royale de Bolanique. Bulletin, T. 1-15. The Society. 

 Budapest. Ungarische National Museum. Termeszetrajzi Fiizetek, 2 K6- 

 tet, 4. The Society. 

 31 




474 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Buenos Ayres. Sociedad Cicntifica Argentina. Anales, Noy. 1878, May, 



1879. See Cordoba. The Society. 

 Buffalo. North American Entomologist. Vol. 1, Nos. 1-5. The Editor. 

 Caen. Academic nationale des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres. Memoires, 



1878, 1870. The Society. 



Association des Instituteurs. Bulletin, 1876. The Society. 

 Calcutta. Asiatic Society of Bengal. Journal, Vols. 46, Pt. 1, Nos. 2, 3, 

 and 4 ; Pt. 2, No. 3 ; Vol. 47, Pt. 1, Nos. 2 and 3 ; Pt. 2, No. 3. 

 Proceedings, 1877, No. 10; 1878, Nos. 6, 7, 9, and 10; 1879, No. 1. 



The Society and Isaac Lea. 

 Stray Feathers. Vol. 7, No. 1-Vol. 8, No. 1. I. V- Williamson Fund. 

 Cambridge. Harvard University. Library Bulletin, Nos. 11, 12, and 13. 

 Bibliographical Contributions, No. 1. The University. 

 Museum of Comparative Zoology. Memoirs, Vol. 6, No. 1. 

 Bulletin, Vol. 5, Nos. 10-15. The Director. 



Nuttall Ornithological Club. Bulletin, Jan. -Oct. 1879. The Society. 

 Psyche, Nos. 53-57, 59-64, 69. The Editor. 

 Cap Rouge. Le Naturaliste Canadien. Jan. -Nov. 1879. The Editor. 

 Cassel. Malakozoologische Blatter. Bd. 25, Bg. 8 et seq. Neue Folge, 



ler Bd. Bg. 1 et seq. 

 Cherbourg. Societe Nationale des Sciences Naturelles. Memoires, T. 21. 



The Society. 

 Chicago. American Antiquarian, Vol. 1, Nos. 3 and 4; Vol. 2, No. 1. 



"The Editor. 

 Christiania. Archiv fur Mathematik og Naturvidenskab. 3 Bd. 3e H.-4 Bd. 

 2 H. The Editor. 

 K. N. FrederiksUniversitet. Aarsberetning, 1876-'77. The University. 

 Norwegischen Meteorologischen Institut. Jahrbuch, 1874, 1875, and 



1876. The Institute. 

 Nyt Magazin fiir Naturvidenskaberne. 23 Bds. 1 H.-24e Bds. 3 H. 



The Editor. 

 Videnskab-Selskab. Forhandlinger, 1875, 1877, and 1878. Skrifter, 

 Ottende Bind, 4 and 5. The Society. 

 Cincinnati. The Paleontologist, Nos. 3 and 4. The Editor. 



Society of Natural History. Journal, Jan. 1879 ; Vol. 2, No. 1. The 

 Society. 

 Copenhagen. . K. D. Videnskabernes Selskab. Oversigt, 1878, No. 2 ; 



1879, Nos. 1 and 2. 



Skrifter, 5te Baekke XII. 3 and 4. The Society. 



Naturhistorisk Tidsskrift. 3e Raekke, 11 Bd. 3 H. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Societe Royale des Antiquaires du Nord. Memoires, Nouvelle Serie, 



1877. 

 Tillaeg, 1876. The Society. 

 Danzig. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Schriften, Neue Folge, 4en B., 



2es H. The Society. 

 Davenport. Academy of Natural Sciences. Report, 1879. The Society. 

 Dresden. K. Zoologische Museum. Mittheilungen. 3es H. The Director. 

 K. Sammlung fiir Kunst uud Wissenschaft. Ergebnisse von Funfzig- 



iahrigen Beobachtungen der Witterung, 1879. Bericht, 1876-1877. 



The Council. 

 Natunvissenschaftliche Gesellschaft Isis. 1878, Juli-Dec. The Society. 

 Verein fiir Erdkunde. Jahresbericht, 15. The Society. 

 Dublin. Roval Geographical Society of Ireland. Journal, Vol. 15, No. 1. 



The Society. 

 Royal Irish Academy. Proceedings, Ser. 2, Vol. 1, Nos. 12, 13 ; Vol. 



2, Nos. 2, 7 ; Vol. 3, Nos. 1-3. 

 Transactions. Science, Vol. 26, Nos. 6-17. Polite Literature and An- 

 tiquities, Vol. 27, Pts. 1 and 2. The Society. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 475' 



Diirkheim a. d. Haardt. Pollichia. Jahresbericht 33-35. The Society. 

 Edinburgh. Royal Botanic Garden. Report. 1878. The Director. 

 Geological Society. Transactions. Vol. 3, No. 2. The Society. 

 Royal Society. Proceedings, No. 100. 

 Transactions. Vol. 18, Pt^2. The Society. 

 Scottish Naturalist, Nos. 33-36. The Editor. 

 Emden. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. 63er Jahresbericht. The Society. 

 Erlangen. Physikalisch-medicinische Societat. Sitzungs-berichte, 10 Heft. 



"The Society. 

 Florence. R. Istituto di Studi Superiori practici e di perfezionamenta. Pub- 

 licazione, Sezione di Medicina e Chirurgia, Vol. 1. Sezione di Sci- 

 enze fisiche et naturali, Vol. 1. The Society. 

 Frankfurt a. M. Deutschen malakozoologische Gesellschaft. Jahrbucher, 

 6er Jahrg.,2, 3, and 4 H. 

 Nachrichtsblatt, Her Jahrg. 1-5. The Society. 

 Senkenbergischen Naturforschenden Gesellschaft. Abhandlungen, Her 



Bd., 2 and 3 H. 

 Bericht, 1876-77, 1877-78. The Society. 



Der Zoologische Garten, 19 Jahrg. 7-20 Jahrg. 6. The Editors. 

 Freiburg i. B. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Bericht, Bd. 7, H. 3. The 



Society. 

 Geneva. Cougres periodique international des Sciences Medicales. Comptes 

 Rendu, 1877. Dr. Wra. H. Jones. 

 Schweizerische palaontologische Gesellschaft. Abhandlungen, Vol. 



5. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Societe de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle. Memoires. Vol. 25, No. 

 2 ; Vol. 26, No. 1. The Society. 

 Genoa. Museo civico di Storia Naturale. Vols. 7 and 8. The Director. 

 Societa di Letture e Conversazioni scientifiche. EfFemeridi, 1875, Disp. 



1-6. 

 Giornale, Anno 2, Fasc. 10-Anno 3, Fasc. 9. The Society. 

 Giessen. Oberhessiche Gesellschaft fur Natur- unci Heilkunde, 17er Be- 

 richt. The Society. 

 Glasgow. Natural History Society. Proceedings, Vol. 3, Pt. 3. The 



Society. 

 Gottingen. K. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. Nachrichten, 1878. The 



Society. 

 Graz. Naturwissenschaftliche Verein fur Steiermark. Jahrg. 1878. The 



Society. 

 Halifax. Nova Scotian Institute of Natural Science. Proceedings and 



Transactions, Vol. 5, Pt. 1. The Society. 

 Halle. Naturforschende Gesellschaft, Abhandlungen, 14en Bd., 1-3 H., 



Festschrift, 1879. The Society. 

 Hamburg.- Naturwissenschaftliche Verein. Verhandlungen, Neue Folge, 



Vols. 2 and. 3. The Society. 

 Hannover. Naturhistorische Gesellschaft. 27 and 28 Jahrb. The Society. 

 Hanover. Botanical Gazette. Vol. 3, No. 12-Vol. 4, No. 8. The Editor. 

 Harlem. Hollandische Maatschappij der Wetenschappen. Natuurkundige 

 Verhandelingen, 3e Verz. Deel 11. The Society. 

 Societe Hollandaisedes Sciences. Archives, T. 11, 4e Livr.-14 Livr. 2. 

 The Society. 

 Heidelberg. Phvsioloiiische Institute der Universitat. Bd. 1, H. 1-Bd. 2, 



H. 3. The Society. 

 Helsiugfors. Finska Vetenskaps-Societeten. Ofversigt 18, 19, and 20. 

 Bid rag, 24-31. 



Observations Meteorologiques, 1874-1876. The Society. 

 Innsbruck. Ferdinandeum. Zeitschrift, 3e Folge, 22es and 23es H. The 

 Society. 




476 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Jena. Medicinisch-naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft. Zeitscbrift, 12er 



Bd. 4 II. -1 3er Bd. 2es H. The Society. 

 Kansas City. The Western Review of Science and Industry. Dec. 1878- 



Nov. 1879. Tlie Editor. 

 Klagenfurt. Landcsmuseum von Kiirten. Jahrbuch 1-7, 10, 13. Tlie So- 

 ciety. 

 Konigsberg. Physikalisch-okonomische Gesellschaft. Schriften, 17 Jahrg. 



1, 2 ; 18er Jahrg. 1. The Society. 

 Lausanne. Societe Helvetique des Sciences Naturelles. Actes, GOe Ses. The 

 Society. 

 Societe Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles. Bulletin, Nos. 81 and 82. 

 The Society. 

 Leeds. Philosophical and Literary Society. Annual reports, 1877-'78, 



1878-'79. The Society. 

 Leiden. Nederlandsche Dierkundige Vereeniging. Tijdschrift, Deel 4. 



The Society. 

 Leipzig. Archiv fiir Anatomie und Physiologic Anatomische Abth., 

 4 H. 1878-4 H. 1879. Physiologische Abth., 5 II. 1878-4 H. 1879. 

 I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Furstlich Jablonowski-sche Gesellschaft. Preisschriften, 21. 

 Jahresbericht, 1878, 1879. The Society. 



Journal fiir Ornithologie, 26 Jahrg. H. 3-27 Jahrg. H. 2. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 K. Sachsischen Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. Abhandlungen XI. 



6-8; XII. 1. 

 Berichte, 1875-1878. The Society. 



Kosmos. 2 Jahrg. 8-3 Jahrg. 6. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Morphologische Jahrbuch. 4er Bd. 3es H.-5er Bd. 2es H. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Sitzungsberichte, 1878, 1-3. The So- 

 ciety. 

 Zeitscbrift fiir Krystallography und Mineralogie, 2 Bd. 6 H.-4 Bd. 1 H. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Zeitscbrift fur wissenschaftliche Zoologie, 31 Bd.-3 H.-32 Bd. 4 H. 



1. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Zoologischer Anzeiger. 1 Jahrg. 9-2 Jahrg. 41. The Editor. 

 Liege. Societe Royale des Sciences. Memoires, 2me Serie, T. 6. 

 Lille. Bulletin scientifique du Departement du Nord. Oct. 1878-Oct. 1879. 



The Editor. 

 Lisbon. Associacao des EngenheirosCivis Portuguezas. Revistade Obras 



publicas e minas, T. 10, Nos. 109-115. The Society. 

 Liverpool. Free Public Library, Museum, and Walker Art Gallery, 26th 

 annual report. The Directors. 

 Literary and Philosophical Society. Proceedings. No. 32. The 

 Society. 

 London. Annals and Magazine of Natural History. Dec. 1878-Nov. 1879. 

 I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Astronomical Register. Nov. 1878-Sept. 1879. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 British Association for the Advancement of Science. Reports 47th and 



48l h Meeting. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Curtis's Botanical Magazine. Nos. 1100-1111. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Entomological Society. Transactions, 1878. The Society. 

 Floricultural Cabinet, 1833-1858. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Gardener's Chronicle. Nos. 259-306. The Editor. 

 Geological Magazine. Nov. 1878-Sept. 1879. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Geological SoGiety. Quarterly Journal, Nos. 132, 136-139. The So- 

 ciety. 

 Hardwicke's Science Gossip. Nov. 1878-Sept. 1879. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 477 



Ibis. Oct. 1878-July, 1879. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Journal of Anatomy and Physiology. Vol. 12, Pt. 2-Vol. 13, Pts. 2, 

 3, and 4 ; Vol. 14, Pt. 1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Journal of Botany, British and Foreign. Oct. 1878-Sept. 1879. I. V. 

 Williamson Fund. 



Journal of Physiology. Vol. 1, No. 4; Vol. 2, No. 2. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 



Quarterly Journal of Science. Oct. 1878-Sept. 1879. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 



London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine. Dec. 1878- 

 Nov. 1879. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Mineralogical Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Mineralogical 

 Magazine. Vol. 2, Nos. 11-14. The Society. 



Nature. Nos. 472-523. The Editor. 



Notes and Queries. Nov. 1878-Oct. 1879. The Editor. 



Popular Science Review. Oct. 1878-July, 1879. I. V. Williamson 

 Fund. 



Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science. Oct. -July, 1879. I. V. 

 Williamson Fund. 



Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Journal, new 

 series. Vol. 11, Pts. 1 and 2. The Society. 



Roval Geographical Society. Proceedings, new series. Vol. 1, Nos. 

 1-8,11. Journal. Vol. *48. The Society. 



Royal Institution of Great Britain. Journal, Vol. 8, Pts. 5 and 6. 

 I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Royal Microscopical Society. Journal. Vol. 2, Nos. 2-6. The So- 

 ciety. 



Royal Society. Proceedings. Nos. 184-196. Philosophical Trans- 

 actions, Vol. 167, Pt. 2, Vol. 168 and Vol. 169, Nos. 1 and 2. The 

 Society. 



Society of Arts. Journal. Vol. 26. The Society. 



Triibner's American and Oriental Literary Record. Nos. 135-142. 

 The Publishers. 



Zoological Societv. Proceedings. 1878, Pt. 3-1879, Pt. 2. Transac- 

 tions. Vol. 10,' Pts. 10, 11, 12. The Society. 



Zoologist. Nov. 1878-Sept, 1879. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 London, Ca. Canadian Entomologist. Vol. 10, No. 12-Vol. 11, No. 10. 



The Editor. 

 Louvain. Universite Catholique. Annuaire, Anne 43me, and seventeen 



theses. 

 Lucca. Reale Accademia Lucchese di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. Atti. T. 



20. The Seciety. 

 Lubeck. Naturhistorische Museum. Jahresbericht, 1877-78. The Di- 

 rector. 

 Luneburg. Naturwissenschaftliche Verein. Jahreshefte VII. The 



Society. 

 Lund. University, Acta, T. 9-14. The University. 



Lyon. Societe d' Agriculture, Histoire Naturelle et Arts utiles. Anuales, 

 4me Serie, T. 9me. The Society. 



Societe Linneenue. Annales, n. s. T. 23me. The Society. 

 Madison. Botanical Gazette, Vol. 4, No. 11-Vol. 5, No. 1. The Editor. 



Wisconsin Academy of Sciences, Arts, and Letters. Transactions. 

 Vol. 4. The Society. 

 Madrid. Memorial de Ingenieros y revista cieutifico-militar. Ano 33, No. 

 22-Anno 34, 21. The Editor. 



Observatorio, Anuario, 1877, 1878, 1879. 



Resumen de las Observaciones, 1873-74, 1874-75. 



Observaciones meteorologicas, 1873-74, 1874-75. The Observatory. 




478 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Manchester. Scientific Students' Association. Annual Report, 1877. The 



Society. 

 Metz. Academic. Memoires, 78e Annee. The Society. 



Verein t'iir Erdkunde : Jahreshericht, ler. The Society. 

 Mexico. Museo Nacional. Anales I. 7. The Director. 



Sociedad "Andres del Rio." Boletin, Cuaderno 1 and 2. The Society. 

 Sociedad de Geografia y Estadistica de la Republica Mexicana. Boletin, 



T. 4, Nos. 2-5. Tlie Society. 

 Sociedad Mexicana de Historia Natural. La Naturaleza, T. 4. Nos. 8- 

 15. The Society. 

 Milan. R. Istituto Lombardo di Scienze e Lettere, Rendiconti. Serie 2, 

 Vols. 9 and 10. Mernorie. Vol. 13, Fasc. 3 ; Vol. 14, Fasc. 1. The 

 Society. 

 Regio Istituto technicosuperiore. Programma, 1878-79. The Society. 

 Milwaukee. Naturhistorische Verein von Wisconsin. Jahreshericht, 1878- 



79. The Society. 

 Minneapolis. Minnesota Academy of Natural Sciences. Bulletin, pp. 325- 



352. The Society. 

 Modena. Societa dei Naturalisti. Annuario, XII., Disp. 1 and 2. The 



Society. 

 Mons. Societe des Sciences, des Arts et des Lettres du Hainaut. Memoires, 



Ser. 4, T. 3me. The Society. 

 Montpellier. Academie des Sciences et Lettres. Memoires de la Section 

 des Sciences. T. 9, 2e Fasc. 1 ; Section de Medecine, Memoires, T. 

 5, le Fasc. The Society. 

 Montreal. The Canadian Naturalist. N. S. Vol. 9, Nos. 1 and 3. The 



Editor. 

 Moscow. Societe Imperiale des Naturalistes. Bulletin, 1876, Nos. 1-4, 1878, 

 Nos. 2. 

 Nouveau Memoires, T. 13, Livr. 5. The Society. 

 Minister. Westfalischen Provinzial Verein fur Wissenschaft und Kunst. 



7er Jahresb. The Society. 

 Munich. Gesellschaft fur Anthropologic, Ethnologie und Urgeschichte. 

 Beitrage, Vol. 2, Nos. 3 and 4. The Society. 

 K. Sternwart. Beobachtungen, 1877, 1878. The Observatory. 

 K. B. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Sitzungsberichte der math.-phys. 



Classe. 1878, 1-4. 

 Abhandlungen, historische Classe, 13er Bd., 1 and 2 Abth. 

 Nancy. Societe des Sciences. Bulletin, Serie 2, T. 3, Fasc. 8 and 9. The 



Society. 

 Naples. R. Accademia delle Scienze fisiche e mathematiche. Atti, VI. 

 Rendiconti, Anni, 11-13. The Society. 



R. Istituto d'lncorraggiamento alle Scienze Naturali, economiche e 

 technologische. Programma, 1878. The Society. 

 Neubrandenburg. Verein der Freunde der Naturgeschichte in Mecklen- 

 burg, 32 Jahrg. The Society. 

 Neuchatel. Societe des Sciences Naturelles. Bulletin, T. 11, 2er Cahier. 



The Society. 

 New Berlin. Entomologist's Exchange. Vol. 1, No. 5. The Editor. 

 Newcastle-upon-Tyne. Natural History Society of Northumberland and 

 Durham, and NeAvcastle-upon-Tyne. Transactions. Vol. 8, Pt. 1. 

 The Society. 

 New Haven. The American Journal of Science and Arts. Dec. 1878- 



Nov. 1879. The Editor. 

 New York. Academy of Sciences. Annals. Vol. 1, Nos. 1-8. The Society. 

 American Bookseller. Vol. 7, No. 1-Vol. 8, No. 10. The Editor. 

 American Chemical Society. Vol. 2, Nos. 1-4. Journal, Vol. 1, Nos. 

 1-3, 5-9. The Society. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 479 



American Geographical Society. Bulletin, 1878, No. 2-1879, No. 2. 



Journal, Vol. 9. The Society. 

 American Journal of Microscopy. Vol. 3, No. 11-Vol. 4, No. 1. The 



Editor. 

 American Quarterly Microscopical Journal. Vol. 1, Nos. 2, 3, and 4. 



The Editor. 

 Engineering and Mininff Journal. Vol. 28, Nos. 10 and 12. The 



Editor. 

 Library Journal. Vol. 3, No. 9- Vol. 4, No. 10. Titleslip Register. 



Vol. 1, Nos. 1-10. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Medical Eclectic. Nov. 1878-Oct. 1879. The Editor. 

 Mectical Journal. Dec. 1878-Oct. 1879. The Editor. 

 Popular Science Monthly. No. 81-Dec. 1879. Supplement, Nos. 19 



and 20. The Editor. 

 Princeton Review. March, 1879. The Editor. 

 Torrey Botanical Club. Bulletin, Nos. 48-58. The Society. 

 Offenbach am Main. Verein fur Naturkunde. Bericht, 17 and 18. The 



Society. 

 Orleans. Societe d' Agriculture, Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. Memoires, 



2e Ser. T. 19. No. 3-T. 21, No. 1. The Society. 

 Palermo. Societa di Scienze Naturali ed economiche. Bulletino, No. 9-14. 



Giornale, Vol. 13. The Society. 

 Paris Academie des Sciences. Comptes Rendus, Vols. 77-86. The Society. 

 Annales des Mines. T. 14, Sine Livr.-T. 15, 4me Livr. Minister of 



Public Works, France. 

 Annales des Science Geologique. T. 10, Nos. 1-4. The Editor. 

 Annales des Science Naturelles. - Zoologie et Paleontologie. T. 7, No. 



5-T. 8, No. 3. Botanique. T. 6, No. 5-T. 8, No. 2. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Archives de Zoologie, experimentale et generale. 1877, No. 3-1878, 



No. 4. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Guide du Naturaliste. Ire Annee, No. 4. The Editor. 

 Journal de Conchyliologie. T. 18, No. 2-T. 19, No. 3. The Editor. 

 Museum d'Histoire Naturelle. Nouvelle Archives, 2me Serie, T. 1, 



2me and 3me Fasc, T. 2, ler Fasc. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Revue et Magasin de Zoologie. 1870-1873 ; 1874 wanting No. 6 ; 1875 



wanting Nos. 4, 5, and 8 ; 1876 wanting Nos. 1 and 5 ; 1877 and 1878 



wanting Nos. 7-12. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Revue Internationale des Sciences. Nos. 4, 6-1879, No. 10. The 



Editor. 

 Revue Scientifique de la France et de l'Etranger. 8me Annee, No. 19. 



The Editor. 

 Societe d'Acclimatation. Bulletin, 1878, Sept.-1879, Aout. The So- 

 ciety. 

 Societe de Biologic Compte Rendu des Sciences, 6me Serie, T. 1-4. 



The Society. 

 Societe Botanique de France. Bulletin, T. 24, p. 241 et seq. The 



Society. 

 Societe Geologique de France. Bulletin, 3rne Ser. T. 5me No. 11-T. 



6, No. 7. The Society. 

 Passau. Naturhistorische Verein. Bericht, Her. Tlie Society. 

 Philadelphia. Academy of Natural Sciences. Proceedings, 1878, Pt. 3 ; 



1879, Pts. 1 and 2. The Publication Committee. 

 American Entomological Society. Transactions, Vol. 7, Nos. 1 and 



2. Proceedings, Nos. 1-4. The Society. 

 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, Jan. -Oct. 1879. The 



Editor. 

 American Journal of Pharmacy. Dec. 1878-Nov. 1879. The Editor. 




480 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



American Naturalist. Dec. 1878-Nov. 1879. The Editor. 



American Pharmaceutical Association. Proceedings, 2Gth Meeting. 



The Society. 

 American Philosophical Society. Proceedings, No. 102. List of 



Members. The Society. 

 Dental Cosmos. Dec. 1878-Nov. 1879. The Editor. 

 Franklin Institute. Journal, Dec. 1878-Nov. 1879. The Society. 

 Gardeners' Monthly. Dec. 1878-Nov. 1879. The Editor. 

 Historical Society of Pennsylvania. Pennsylvania Magazine of History 



and Biography. Vol. 2, No. 4-Vol. 3, No. 3. The Society. 

 The Librarian. Vol. 2, Nos. 1-21. The Editor. 

 Medical News and Library. Nos. 432-443. The Editor. 

 Monthly Review of Medicine and Pharmacy. Vol. 2, Nos. 3, 4, and 



5. The Editor. 

 Naturalist's Leisure Hour. Vol. 2, No. 4-Oct. 1879. The Editor. 

 Robinson's Epitome of Literature. Vol. 3, Nos. 3-13. The Editor. 

 Zoological Society. 7th Annual Report. The Society. 

 Pisa. Nuova Giornale Botanico Italiano. Vols. 4-9 ; Vol. 11, Nos. 14. 



The Editor. 

 Societa Malacologica Italiana. Bulletino, Vol. 4, Nos. 15-20 ; Vol. 5, 



Nos. 1-10. 

 Societa Toscana di Scienze Naturali. Processi Verbali, 12 Gennaio, 



1879-Luglio 6, 1879. The Society. 

 Prag, K. B. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. Sitzungsberichte, 1877- 



1878. Jahresbericht, 1877, 1878. Abhandlungen, 6e Folge, 9er Bd. 

 The Society. 



Quebec. Literary and Historical Society. Session of 1877-8. The Society. 

 Regensburg. Zoologisch-mineralogishe Verein. Correspondenz-Blatt. 



32er Jahrg. Abhandlungen, lies H. The Society. 

 Riga. Naturforscher-Verein. Correspondenzblatt. 32er Jahrg. The 



Society. 

 Rome. R. Accademia dei Lincei. Atti, Serie Terza, Transunti, Vol. 3, 

 Nos. 1-7. The Society. 

 Accademia Pontificia de Nuovi Lincei. Atti, Anni 24-29. The Society. 

 St. Gallen. Naturwisseuschaftliche Gesellschaft. Bericht, 77-78. The 



Society. 

 St. Petersburg. Academie Imperiale des Sciences. Memoires, Vol. 25, 

 No. 5 ; Vol. 26, No. 4. 

 Bulletin. T. 24, No. 4-T. 25, No. 2. The Society. 

 Repertorium fur Meteorologie,".Bd. VI. 1. 



Hortus Petropolitanus. Acta/T. 3, 4, 5 ; Vol. 6. The Society. 

 Physikalische Central-Observatorium. Annalen, 1877. The Observa- 

 tory. 

 Societas Entomologicse Rossicae. Horse, T. XL Nos. 1-4 ; T. XIII. 

 The Society. 

 Salem. American Association for the Advancement of Science. Proceed- 

 ings, Vol. 27. The Society. 

 Essex Institute. Bulletin, Vol. 10, No. 7- Vol. 11, No. 9. The Society. 

 Science News. Vol. 1, Nos. 3 and 4. The Editor. 

 San Francisco. California Academy of Sciences. Proceedings, Vol. 3, 

 Pt. 4 ; Vol. 4, pp. 1-40. The Society. 

 California Horticulturist. Vol. 9, No. 3. The Editor. 

 Santiago de Chile. Revista Medica de Chili. Ano6, Nos. 1-12. The Editor. 

 Universidad de Chile. Anales, 1877, le and 2e sec. The University. 

 Springfield. Familiar Science and Fanciers' Journal. Dec. 1878-Sept. 



1879. The Editor. 



Stuttgart. Neues Jahrbuch fur Mineralogie, Geologic, und Palaeontologie. 

 1878, 7es H.-1879, 7es H. The Editor. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 481 



Verein fiir vaterlandiscbe Naturkunde in Wiirttemberg. Jalireshefte 



35er Jalirg. 

 Sydney. Royal Society of New South Wales. Journal and Proceedings, 



Vol. XL The Society. 

 Tasmania. Royal Society. 'Papers, Proceedings, and Reports, 1877. The 



Society. 

 Tokio University. Science Department. Memoires, Vol. 1, Pt. 1. The 



University. 

 Topeka. Kansas Academy of Sciences. Transactions, Vols. 4-6. The 



Society. 

 Toronto. Canadian Institute. Proceedings, n. s., Vol. 1, Pt. 1. The 



Society. 

 Toulouse. Academie des Sciences, Inscriptions et Belles-Lettrcs. Me- 

 moires, 7me Serie, T. 10. The Society. 

 Revue Mycolosique. Ire Annee. Nos. 1 and 4. The Editor. 

 Societe d'Histoire Naturelle. Bulletin, 1876-77, pp. 217 et seq., 1877- 



8, 2me Fasc. ; lime Annee, 1 and 2 Fasc. The Society. 

 Trieste. Societa Adriatica di Scienze Naturali. Bollettina, Vol. 4, No. 2; 



Vol. 5, No. 1. The Societv. 

 Tromso. Museum. Aarshefter I. The Director. 

 Turin. Academia Reale delle Scienze. Atti, Vol. 11, Disp. 1-Vol. 12, 



Disp. 5. 

 Memoria, Serie 2a, T. 28. The Society. 

 Recio Osservatorio della Regia Universita. Bollettino, Anno 9-11. 



The Society. 

 Upsal. Observatoire de 1'Universite. Bulletin Meteorologique, Vol. 10. 



The Observatory. 

 Urbana. Central Ohio Scientific Association. Proceedings, Vol. 1, Pt. 1. 



The Society. 

 Utrecht. Algemeene Vergadering van bet Provinciaal Utreehtsch Ge- 



nootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen, gehouden den 26 Juni, 



1877, 25 Juni, 1878. 

 Aanteekeningen, 1877-78. The Society. 



K. Nederlandsch Meteorologisch Institute. Jaarboek, 1872, 1876, and 



1878. The Institute. 



Venice. R. Instituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. Atti, T. 1, Ser. 



5, Disp. 10 ; T. 2 ; T. 3, Disp. 1-7. Tlie Society. 

 Vienna. Anthropologische Gessellscbaft. Mittheilungen, 8 Bd. 10-9 Bd. 



3. The Society. 

 Embryologische Institute der K. K. Universitat. Mittheilungen, 2 



and 3 H. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Sitzunsrsberichte, Mathemat.Na- 



turw. Classe, 76 Bd. I., 1 H.-77 Bd. II. 3 H. 

 Denkschriften. Bd. 35 and 88. The Society. 

 K. K. geologische Reichsanstalt, Jahrbuch, 28 Bd. No. 3-29 Bd. 



No. 2. 

 Verhandlungen. 1878, No. 11-1879, No. 9. Abhandlungen. Bd. 12, 



II. 1. The Society. 

 K. K. zoologisch-botanische Gesellschaft. Verhandlungen, Bd. 28. 



The Society. 



Verein zur Verbreitung naturwissenschaftlichen Kenntnisse. Schriften, 

 19er Bd. The Society. 



Zoologische Institute. Arbeiten, T. 2, H. 2-T. 2, H. 1. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Washington. The American Botanical Register, No. 3. Rev. Dr. E. A. 

 Dalrymple. 



National Academy of Sciences. Report, 1879. The Society. 




482 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



. National Institute. Constitution, 1840-1849. 

 Bulletin of Proceedings, 1-4. 

 Discourse on the objects of, 1841. 

 Introductory Address, by Hon. R. J. Walker. 

 Annual Address, by Levi Woodbury. 

 Report of Recording Secretary, 1850. T. R. Peale. 

 Wellington. New Zealand Institute. Transanctions, Vol. XI. The So- 

 ciety. 

 Wfirztmrg. Botanische Institut. Arbeiten, 2er Bd. H. 2. The Institute. 

 Physikalisch-mediciuische Gesellcliaft. Verhandlungen, Neue Folge, 



12er Bd. 1 H.-13er Bd. 4 II. The Society. 

 Zoologisch-zootomische Institut. Arbeiten, 5er Bd. 1 II. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Yokohama. Asiatic Society of Japan. Transactions, Vol. 6, No. 3-Vol. 



7, No. 3. The Society. 

 Zurich. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Vierteljahrsschrift, 23er Jahrg. 

 1-4 H. The Society. 



! 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



is:j 



INDEX TO GENERA 



1879. 



Acantbocbila 



Acantbocystis 



Acanthodoris 



Achelous 



Aetata 



Actoeon 212, 



Aetinocrimis 226, 



Actinodorus 



Adalaria 



^Elurodon 



iElurogale 



JEolidia 71, 73, 



yEolidiella 



^Eolis 



JEolus 



Akiodoris 72, 



Albunea 



Alope 



Alpheus 



Amoeba , . . . . 103, 



Amphicyon 178, 



Amphiuma 14, 



Amphizonella 



Anacharis 



Anchistia 



Anisocrinus 



Anomalocrinus 285, 



Anthracopus 



Arachnocrinus 285, 



Aratus 



Araujia 205, 



Arcella 



Archidoris 72, 



Aretes 



Arionta 



Ascaris 



Asclepias 205, 



Assiminea 



Assulina 



Ateles 



At lianas 



Atta 



Atya 



115 

 163 



72 

 308 

 392 

 223 

 240 

 108 



72 

 175 

 176 

 125 



87 



72 



72 

 128 

 409 

 418 

 416 

 204 

 179 

 144 

 163 

 204 

 423 

 260 

 295 

 165 

 315 

 402 

 206 

 162 

 106 

 418 



16 

 145 

 207 



29 

 163 



60 

 418 



33 

 414 



Atyepliryra 41 5 



Atyoida 415 



Autonomea 421, 422 



Anxis 134 



Avicula 219 



Barycrinus 238, 285, 322 



Batocrinus 234 



Begonia 138 



Bolemnocrinus 240 



Bellidia 418 



Bioidium 198 



Binneya 16 



Blatta 204 



Blastoidocriims 236 



Bopyrns 198 



Bothriocephalus 40 



Botryocrinus 285, 320 



Botryospheeria 67 



Bnlli'miis 219 



Bulla 222 



Bursacrinus 285, 346 



Bytkocaris 419 



Cadlina 72, 114, 129 



Calappa 402 



Calceocrinus 242 



Calceola 43 



Callianassa 410 



Callinectes 398 



Calpiocrinus 253, 261 



Calyptrsea 219, 222 



Campaspe 89 



Camponotus 140 



Cancellaria 223 



Cancer 391 



Canis 178, 184, 186 



Carabocrinus 286, 366 



Caradina 415 



Carcinus 398 



Cardita 218, 219, 220 



Cardium 219. 221 



Caridion 419 




484 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Caryocrinua 43, 230, 233 



Castiinca 165 



Catalpa 161 



Catillocrinus 242 



Catolynx 170 



Caulurus 426 



Cebus 60 



Centropomus 153 



Cent ropy xis 163 



Cercopitbecus 146 



Ceritkioderma 215 



Cervus 33 



Chirocephalus 148, 201 



Clilorodius 395 



Cbondrclla 28 



Chorinus 385 



Cbriomitra 133, 134 



Chromodoris 72, 108 



Chrysocyon 184 



Clatbrul'ina 163 



Cleincrinus 258 



Codaster 231 



Codonites 231 



Coeliociinus 286, 354 



Colncasia 33 



Comatula 239, 244 



Concordia 413 



Conus 213 



Coralliocaris 423 



Corallium 209 



Corbis 219, 221 



Corbula 221 



Corypbella 71, 73, 77, 126 



Coryphodon 50 



Coi yrbyncbus 384 



Crangon 411 



Crematogaster 137 



Cristatella 203 



Crotalociinus 235, 247 



Cryphiops 426 



Cryptocheles 419 



Crvptoprocta 170 



Cupressocrinus 235,242, 247 



Cvanea 198 



Cyatbocrinus 226, 228, 239, 247, 



285, 302 



Cybium 134 



Cylicbna 222 



Cvna'lurns 170 



Cynips 198 



Cynocephalus 60 



Cynodictis 184 



Cynodon 184 



Cyphoderia 163 



Cyprsea 222 



Cyprsedia 222 



Cvrtia 43 



Cyrtidocrinus 286, 368 



Cvsticercus 11 



Cytberea 219, 222 



Decadocrinus 285, 342 



Delplrinula 211 



Dendrocrinus 285, 298 



Dendronotus 72,89, 126 



Diaulula 72 



Dicliocrinus 227, 240 



Dieba 184 



Difflnsia 162, 203 



Dinictis 169 



Diplodia 68 



Doriprismatica 108 



Doris 100 



Dotbidea 66, 67 



Dromidia 404 



Dysodus 179, 185, 188, 193 



Edriocrinus 244 



Enalocrinus 247 



Encrinites 226 



Encriims 286 



Endamoeba 205 



Enliydrocyoii 178, 185, 193 



Eolia 72 



Eolida 73 



Eolidia 72 



Eolis 72 



Epantbropos 194 



Epialtus 385 



Eripbia 397 



Erisocrinus 286, 362 



Eucalyptocrinus 43, 240 



Enceramus 408 



Eucladocrinus 234 



Euglypha 163 



Eupacbycrinus 286, 356 



Eupilumnus 397 



Euryrhynchus 424 



Eurypauropus 139, 164 



Euryplax 399 



Eurytium 394 



Eusmilus 170 



Euspirocrinus 286, 366 



Evatya 415 



Felis 168, 170 



Fiona 72, 73, 85, 125 



Fistulana 219 



Flabellina 71, 73, 79, 126 



Forbesiocr'mus 274 



Formica 142, 154 



Frcia 198 



Fucbsia 137 



Fusus 223 



Garberia 379, 380 



Gebia 410 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



485 



Gelasimus 399 



Gissocrinus 241, 285, 312 



Glossodoris 108 



Gnathophyllum 414 



Gnorimocrinus 273 



Goniobranchus 31 



Goniopsis 400 



Gonolobus 205 



Gordius 10 



Gorilla 53 



Granatocrinus 231 



Graphiocrinus 285, 344 



Grapsus 401 



Gymnocladus 166 



Haplocrinus 43 



Harpilius 423 



Helleopera 162 



Helicina 29, 33 



Helix 33 



Helocyon 1 84 



Hepatus 403 



Hermissenda 71, 73, 81, 126 



Heteractsea 396 



Heterocrinus 228, 242, 285, 291 



Heterocrypta 391 



Hippa 409 



Hippocrenes 218 



Hippolysmata 412 



Hippolyte 418, 426 



Homalocrinus 258 



Homo 193 



Homocrinus 285, 298 



Hoplophoneus 170 



Hoya 205 



Hyaena 169 



Hyalolampe 1 63 



Hyalosphenia 1 63 



Hybocrinus 243, 285, 297 



Hydractinia 209 



Hydreionocrinus 286, 352 



Hylobates 59 



Hymenocera 425 



Hypoconcha 404 



Hyrax 12 



Ichneumon 169 



Icbthyocrinus 228, 256 



Icticyon 178, 190, 198 



Iocrinus 285, 293 



Iris 163 



Janthina 86 



Joruuna 132 



Krantzite 41 



Lamellidoris 72 



Lamellina 25 



Lasius 140, 160 



Lat rentes 413 



Lecanocrinus 262 



Lecythocrinus 285, 311 



Leo 169 



Leopardus 169 



Lepidops 410 



Leptoclinium 379 



Leptopodia 383 



Liatris 379 



Libinia 386 



Lichinocrinus 229 



Limnea 83 



Limopsis 221 



Linyphia 150 



Lithadia 403 



Lithoci inus 275 



Lonas 168 



Lophomonas 204 



Lupus 184 



Lycalopex 184 



Lycaon 178, 179 



Lyncus 170 



Lynx 193 



Lysmata 412 



Macacus 60, 146 



Machserodus 168, 170 



Macrocceloma 387 



Mactra 198 



Marsenia 72 



Marsupites 239, 245 



Megalotis 178 



Megistocrinus 238 



M elampus 26 



Melania 214, 225 



Melocrinus 227, 240 



Melogramma 66, 381 



Menippe 393 



Menobranchus 144 



Menopoma 144 



Mesostoma 215, 225 



Mespilocrinus 228, 264 



Metanthropos 194 



Metoporhapis 384 



Microcystis 17 



Microphrys 38(5 



Miersia 416 



Mithraculua 388 



Mithrax 390 



Mursenopsis 14 



Mus 11 



Myelodactylus 286, 368 



Myrmecocystia 197 



Myrmica 140 



Myrtillocrinus 242 




486 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Nasalis 146 



Nasua 169 



Natica 212 



Nebela 162 



Nectocrangon 412 



Neofelia 170 



Ncotoma 12 



Ncptunus 898 



Nika 412 



Nimravus 169 



Nipterocrinua 278 



Niso 219, 224 



Nucleocrinus 231 



Nyctereutea 185 



Nyctotherus 204 



Ocypoda 400 



Odostomia 212 



Ogyris 419 



Oliva 223 



Ollacrinua 234 



Oniphalotropua 28 



Onchidiopsis 72 



Onoclea 163 



Onustns 218 



Onychocrinua 255, 276 



Ophiocrinus 285, 320 



Oplophorus 426 



Opuntia 64 



Orcynua 133 



Orgyia 195 



Orthia 43 



Ostrea 218, 219, 220 



Othonia 388 



Oxyurus 204 



Pachygrapsus 400 



Pachylocrinua 285, 338 



Pachyocrinus 286, 368 



Palsemon 425 



Palaeinonella . 425 



Pala?monetea 198, 424 



Palseocyon 178, 179 



Palreosyops 50 



Panda! us 422 



Panopeus 393 



Panulirus 410 



Paracrangon 412 



Parisocrinus 285, 338 



Pasithea 219 



Patula 18 



Pauropus 139, 149 



Pecten 220 



Pectunculus 219 



Pelia 385 



Peneus 427 



Pentamera 227 



Pentamerus 43 



Pentremites 231, 236 



Persephone 403 



Petrolisthes 405 



Phialocrinus 285, 347 



Phoma 68 



Phorua 218 



Physianthus 205 



Pilutnnus 396 



Pinnixa 402 



Pinnotheres 402 



Piaania 213 



Pisocrinus 242 



Pisosoma 406 



Pitys 18 



Placocista 163 



Plaguaia 401 



Platycrinua 226, 227, 239, 241 



Platylambrua 890 



Platyonichua 399 



Pleurohranchus 72 



Pleurotoma 213, 224 



Polycera 72 



Polyergua 140 



Polymers 227 



Polyonyx 408 



Polvporns 198 



Pontonella 422 



Pontonia 422 



Pontophilus 412, 422 



Porcellana 406 



Porocrinus 233 



Poteriocrinus 226, 227, 228, 232, 



285, 327 



Primula 138 



Protamceba 204 



Proteus 144 



Pseudaelurus 170 



Paeudodifflugia 163 



Pterocaris 421 



Pterodoris 108 



Pupa 33 



Pycnosaccus 264 



Pyrula 219, 223 



Quadrula 162 



Quer'cus 34, 198, 381 



Rangifer 32 



Retinoapora 209 



Rbizocrinua 240 



Rbodocrinua 226, 227, 241 



Rbopalocrinua 280 



Rliua 69 



Rbyncbocinetea 419 



Rhynchocyclua 413 



Rhyncbonella 43 



Rissoa 215 



Riaaoina 214 



Rostellaria 216, 219 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



48T 



Sabinea 41.2 



Sarda 133 



Sauropus 1 05 



Scapbiocrinus 285, 335 



Scomber 133 



Scytalocrinus 285, 339 



Semnopitbecus GO, 140 



Sesarma 401 



Sicyocrinus 285, 322 



Sicyonia 420 



Sigaretus 219, 224 



Simenia 184 



Siredon 144 



Siren 144 



Srailodon 170, 175, 193 



Solarium 212, 218, 219, 224 



Solen 219 



Solidago 10 



Speotbus 178, 185 



Spbseria 00, 381 



Spbseropsis 08 



Sphenoderia 103 



Spirifer 43 



Stalagmium 221 



Stapelia 205 



Steganocrinus 234 



Stemmatocrinus 280, 364 



Stenogyra 19 



Streptocephaliia 200 



Strotocrinus 234 



Succinea 20, 33 



Succinellite 42 



Succinite 41 



Symbatbocrymis 240, 247 



Symborodon 50 



Synagodus 179, 185, 180, 193 



Taenia 11, 40 



Taxocrinus 228, 260 



Teinostoma 211 



Temnocyon 178, 179 



Termcs 155 



Tetramera 227 



Tetramorium 142, 1 56 



Tbalassiocaris 426 



Tbor 421 



Tbous 178, 179 



Tbumenia 07 



Tliuia 209 



Tigris 169 



Titanotberium 50 



Tomarctus 179, 185 



Tornatella 212, 222 



Tornatellina 21 



Tozeuma 413 



Trigonocaelia 221 



Trimera 227 



Trinema 163 



Triopa 72 



Triton 145 



Tritonia 72, 93, 95, 97, 128 



Trocbita 219, 222 



Troglocaris 415 



Troglodytes 52 



Turritella 219 



Typton 422 



Uncia , 109, 170 



Urocaria 424 



Urocyon 185 



Vaccinium ... 381 



Valsa 07 



Vasocrinus 285, 317 



Venericardia 219 



Vertigo 19 



Yiibius 421 



Viverricula 109 



Voluta 218, 223 



Volutilitbes 218 



Vulpes 178, 185 



Woodocrinus 286, 347 



Xantbonyx 

 Xipbocaris. 



Zapbrentis 



Zeacrinus 286, 



10 



420 



43 



348 





GENERAL INDEX. 



489 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Adamson, Wm., Announcement of 

 death of, 162. 



Additions to the Library, 459. 



Allen, Harrison, Description of a 

 Foetal Walrus, 428. 



Beadle, Rev. E. R., Announcement 

 of death of, 9 ; Resolution upon 

 death of, 9. 



Bergh, R., On the Nudibranchiate 

 Gasteropod Mollusca of the North 

 Pacific Ocean, with special refer- 

 ence to those of Alaska, 71. 



Biddle, Clement, Announcement of 

 death of, 65. 



Binney, W. G., On the Land Shells 

 of the Mexican Island of Guade- 

 loupe, collected by Dr. E. Palmer, 

 16. 



Biological and Microscopical Section, 

 Report of, 444. 



Botanical Section, Report of, 450. 



Chapman, H. C, On the Structure of 

 the Chimpanzee, 40, 52 ; Notes on 

 Amphiuma, 65, 144 ; Placenta of 

 Macacus Cynomolgus, 138, 146. 



Conchological Section, Report of, 

 445. 



Cope, Edw. D., Election to fill va- 

 cancy in Council, 65 ; On thegenera 

 of Felidae and Canidse, 164, 168. 



Corresponding Secretary, Report of, 

 439. 



Curators, Report of, 441. 



Dercum, F., The Lateral Sensory 

 Apparatus of Fishes, 152. 



Elections, 1879, 458. 



Ellis, J. B., On the Variability of 

 Sphseria Quercuum, Schw., 66 ; 

 Reply to Dr. M. C. Cook's criti- 

 cism of paper on Variability of 

 Sphaeria Quercuum, Sz., 379, 381. 



Entomological Section, Report of, 

 448. 



32 



Garrett, Andrew, Description of a 

 New Species of Goniobranchus, 9, 

 31 ; List of Land Shells inhabiting 

 Rurutu, one of the Austral Islands, 

 9, 17. 



Goldsmith, E., Asphaltum and Am- 

 ber from Vincenttown, N. J., 40 ; 

 On Amber containing Fossil In- 

 sects, 207. 



Gray, Asa, On the Genus Garberia, 

 379. 



Green, Wm. H., and A. J. Parker, 

 Note on Hyraceum, 12 ; Correc- 

 tion to same, 379. 



Gumbes, Wm. H., Announcement of 

 death of, 209. 



Hays, Isaac, Announcement of death 

 of, 138. 



Heilpriu, Angelo, On some new 

 Eocene Fossils from the Claiborne 

 Marine Formation of Alabama, 

 208, 211 ; A comparison of the Eo- 

 cene Mollusca of the Southeastern 

 United States and Western Europe 

 in relation to the determination of 

 identical forms, 209, 217; On the 

 Stratigrapliical Evidence afforded 

 by, the Tertiary Fossils of the Pe- 

 ninsula of Maryland, 379. 



Hess, R. J., Report of Biological and 

 Microscopical Sections, 444. 



Horn, Geo. H., Report of the Corre- 

 sponding Secretary, 439 ; Report 

 of Entomological Section, 448. 



Index to Genera, 483. 



Kingsley, J. S., On a collection of 

 Crustacea from Virginia, North 

 Carolina, and Florida, with a re- 

 vision of the genera of Crangoni- 

 da; and Palsemonida3, 379, 383 ; 

 Cardiological Notes, No. 1, 380. 



Knight, J. B., Announcement of 

 death of, 65. 




t90 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Leidy, Jos., On Gordius, and on some 

 Parasites of the Rat, 10; Fossil 

 remains of a Caribou, 32 ; On Bo- 

 th riocephal us latus, 40; On Rhizo- 

 pods occurring in Sphagnum, 162 ; 

 Fossil foot tracts of the Anthracite 

 Coal Measures, 164; Explosion of 

 a Diamond, 195 ; Remarks on Or- 

 gyia, 195 ; Notice of some animals 

 on the Coast of New Jersey, 198 ; 

 On Cristatella Idae, 203; On 

 Amoeba Blattse, 204 ; Ward's Nat- 

 ural Science Eestablishment, 208 ; 

 Report of the Curators, 441. 



Librarian, Report of, 440. 



Lockington, W. N, Notes on Pacific 

 Coast Fishes, 10 ; On a new genus 

 and species of Scombrida?, 133 ; 

 On the Pacific species of Caulolati- 

 lns, 210. 



Longstreth,Wm. W., Announcement 

 of death of, 156. 



Lyon, V. W., Description of three 

 new species of Calceolidre, from 

 the Upper Silurian Rocks of Ken- 

 tucky, 43. 



McCook, Rev. H. O, Cutting or 

 Parasol Ant, Atta fervens, Say, 

 33 ; Note on the Adoption of an 

 Ant-Queen, 137 ; Mode of Deposit- 

 ing Ant Eggs, 140 ; Note on the 

 Marriage Flights of Lasius flavus 

 and Myrmica lobricornis, 140 ; 

 Pairing of Spiders, 150 ; Notes on 

 Mound-making Ants, 154; Com- 

 bats and Kiditieation of the Pave- 

 ment Ant, Tetramorium csespi- 

 tum, 156 ; On Myrmecocystus 

 Mexicanus, Wesm., 197. 



McCreary, J. B., Announcement of 

 death of, 195. 



Maury, F. F., Announcement of 

 death of, 156. 



Meehan, Thos., Solidago odora as a 

 "Tea" plant, 10 ; Note on Opuntia 

 prolifera, Eng., 64; On hybrid 

 Fuchsias, 137 ; On special fecundity 

 in plants, 138 ; Do snakes swallow 

 their young? 139 ; Note on Lonas 

 inodora, 163 ; On sex in Castanea 

 Americana, 165; Variations in 

 Thuja and Retinospora, 209 ; Re- 

 port of Botanical Section, 450. 



Meigs, J. Aitken, Announcement of 

 death of, 279. 



Miller, E. Spencer, Announcement 

 of death of, 65. 



Mineralogical Section, change of 

 name, 380 ; Report of, 454. 



Nolan, Edw. J., Report of the Record- 

 ing Secretary, 438 ; Report of the 

 Librarian, 440. 



Officers for 1880, 457. 



Parker, A. J., Complete connection 

 of Fissura Centralis (Fiss. of Ro- 

 lando) with the Fossa Sylvii, 428. 



Peace, Ed., Announcement of death 

 of, 203. 



Potts, Ed., On the supposed sensitive 

 character of glands of the Ascle- 

 piadacse, 205. 



President, Report of, 432. 



Rand, T. D., Report of Mineralogical 

 Section, 454. 



Recording Secretary, Report of, 438. 



Redfield, J 11., Report of Conserva- 

 tor of Botanical Section, 451. 



Report of President, 432. 



Report of Recording Secretary, 438. 



Report of Corresponding Secretary, 

 439. 



Report of Librarian, 440. 



Report of Curators, 441. 



Report of Biological and Microsco- 

 pical Section, 444. 



Report of Conchological Section, 445. 



Report of Entomological Section, 

 448. 



Report of Botanical Section, 450. 



Report of Mineralogical Section, 454. 



Roberts, S. R., Report of Concho- 

 logical Section, 445. 



Ruschenberger, W. S. W., Report of 

 the President, 432. 



Ryder, J. A., Further notes on the 

 mechanical genesis of Tooth-forms, 

 10, 47 ; Morphological Notes on 

 the limbs of the Amphiumidae, as 

 indicating a possible synonymy of 

 the supposed genera, 14 ; Descrip- 

 tion of a new species of Chiroceph- 

 alus, 138, 148 ; Notice of a new 

 Pauropod, 139 ; Honey glands on 

 Catalpa leaves, 161 ; The larva of 

 Eurypauropus spinosus, 164; De- 

 scription of a new Branchipod, 

 197, 200. 



Siegfried, Chas. A., Natives of Botel 

 Tobago, 33. 



Smyth, Francis G., Announcement 

 of death of, 195. 



Wachsmuth, Chas., and Frank 

 Springer, Revision of the Palreo- 

 crinoidea, Part I, the families Ich- 

 thyocrinidse and Cyathocrinidas, 

 209, 226. 



Williams, H. J., Announcement of 

 death of, 65. 




PROG. A, N, S. 1879, 



PL XIV. 



J.5 K. Hal 



KINGSLEY ON CRUSTACEA. 





PROC. A. N. S. PHILA. 1879 (PL. XV.). 



Jf.J. 

















/ * ,^\ r 



7 ?& 



. 



<tf 



<%" b q 



,4 





' 









TEElfellOnH.PREIT^iOC:. 2i0 DEYQN3HlHESr.B'0STa!l. 



WACHSMUTH AND SPRINGER ON CRINOIDEA. 





PRCC. A. N. S. PHILA. 1879 (PL. XVI.). 



/>/.#. 



a 



0/z 







/ 



o# 





O 



AW 





x. 



A 



\ a Da 



#0p. 



<> 





i#i. 



<&^&<<&:< 







o< 



^T#V 



* 



y J\ r 



*\\L\\*>\ \ ( U. 



^^ icT9 



<?. 



<><> <3> <S> O 



THEHELICTYFEFRffiTIIiCsCi;. 220 DESOHoKESST .C'jSTOH 



WACHSMUTH AND SPRINGER ON CRINOIDEA. 







PROC. A. N. S. PHILA. 1879 (PL. XVII.). 



JV.W. 



sePbiete:>Cc a shoeStBoskh 



WACHSMUTH AND SPRINGER ON CRINOIDEA. 





m 



^aaaoanMaaoHi^us 



&, 



SS? 1 ^, 





PROCEEDINGS 



OF Til 12 



nulnuji of jptoral Srienas 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



PART I. January, February, and March, 1879. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



Joseph Leidy, M.D., 

 Wm. S. Vadx, 



Geo. H. Horn, M.D., 

 Thomas Meehan, 



J. 11. Redfield. 



EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 





\ 



) 



-x 



8 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



S. W. Corner of 1 9th and Race Streets. 



1879. 




PUBLICATIONS OF 



THE ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Seven volumes of the New Series of the Journal, and Vol. VIII. Part III. (Quarto) have 

 been issued 1847 to 1877. The price per volume of four parts is $10, or $3 per part, to sub- 

 scribers; and to others, $12.50 per volume, or $3.75 per part. Vol. 7 contains "The Extinct 

 Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mammalian Remains of 

 North America." Illustrated with thirty plates. By Joseph Le dy, M.D., LL.D. 



The First Series of the Journal, 1S17 to 1842, in eight volumes octavo, may be obtained 

 at $40 to members, and to the public, $48. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 1841 to 1856, 

 of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be obtained at $24 to members; 

 and to the public, $30. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of which fourteen 

 volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870), may be obtained at $42 to members, or $3 per volume 

 separately; and ta the public, $3.75 per volume. 



The Third Series of the Proceedings, Illustrated, commencing January 1st, 1871, of 

 which nine volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1879, is published at $5 per annum, payable in 

 advance, to subscribers ; single volumes, $6.25. 



American Journal of Conchology, 1865-71. Seven vols. 8vo. Containing 2500 pages, 

 illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, besides about a thousand wood 

 engravings. Published at $70. Price reduced to $42 for the set. Separate volumes $10 each. 



BOOKS FOR SA.LE. 



The Academy has the following works for sale at the prices affixed: 

 Description of Shells of North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas Say, 1830- 



34. $10.50. 

 Monograph of the Unionid^e of North America. By T. A. Conrad. 60 uncolored plates, 



octavo, 1840. $8. 

 Fossils of the Tertiary Formation of the United States. By T. A. Conrad. Complete, 



with 49 plates, octavo, 1838. $5. 

 Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca of the United States. With Illustrations of 



all the Species. By George W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate paper, with duplicate plates, 



colored and tinted, $20; colored edition, $13.50; plain edition, $8.50. Only one hundred 



copies printed, which have been mostly sold. 

 Monograph of the Fresh water Univalve Mollusca of the United States. By S. S. 



Haldeman, 1840-44. With Continuation to 1871. By George W. Tryon, Jr. 2 vols., 



with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, $40 ; with colored plates, $25 ; 



with plain plates, $18. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 



Synonymy of the Species of Strepomatid^e (Melanians) of the -United States. By Geo. 



W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2; paper, $1.75. 

 List of American Writers on Recent Conchology, with the Titles of their Memoirs and 



Dates of Publication. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2; paper, $1.75. 

 Monograph of the Order Pholadacea and other Papers. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, 



$2; paper, $1.75. 

 Complete Writings on Recent and Fossil Conchology of C. S. Rafinesque. Edited by 



' Wm. G. Binney and G. W. Tryon, Jr. $2.50. 

 Observations on the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL.D. 4to., Vols. 1 to 13. With Index, 



Nos. 1, 2, and 3, complete. Illustrated with several hundred fine lithographic plates. $60. 

 Same, Vols. 2 to 13 inclusive, except Vols. 4 and 12. Each volume separately, $5. 

 Synopsis of Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL.D. Fourth edition. $3. 

 Contributions to Geology. By Isaac Lea. $5. 

 Fossil Foot-marks. By Isaac Lea. Large folio, text and plate. $2. 

 Same, plate alone. 50 cents. 



Notice to Booksellers. All the Publications of the Society will be supplied 

 to Booksellers' at a discount of 20 per cent, on the prices charged to the public. 



Application to be made to Wm. S. Vatjx, Chairman of the Publication Com- 

 mittee, 1702 Arch Street, or to the Librarian, at the Hall of the Academy, corner 

 of Nineteenth and Race Streets. 



( London, TRUBNER & CO., 



May, 1879. 



Agents, j No. 60 Paternoster Row. 



I Salem, Mass., NATURALIST'S AGENCY. 





^^*g^" 



CONTENTS. 



Meehan, Thomas. Solidago odora as a " Tea" Plant . . 10 

 Leidy, Jos., M.D. On Gordius, and on some Parasites of the 



Rat 10 



Greene, Wm. H., M.D., and A. J. Parker, M.D. Note on Hy- 



raceutn . . . . . . . . . .12 



Ryder, Jno. A. Morphological Notes on the limbs of the 



Amphiumidse, as indicating a possible synonymy of the 



supposed genera . .14 



Binney, Wm. G. On the land shells of the Mexican Island of 



Gaudelupe, collected by Dr. E. Palmer . . . 16 



Garrett, Andrew. List of land shells inhabiting Rnrutu,one 



of the Austral Islands, with remarks on their synonymy, 



geographical range, and descriptions of new species . . 17 

 Garrett, Andrew. Description of a new species of Goniobran- 



chus ........... 31 



Leidy, Jos., M.D. Fossil remains of a Caribou . . .32 

 Seigfried, Dr. Chas. N., V. S. N. Natives of Botel Tobago . 33 

 McCook, Rev. H. C. Cutting, or Parasol Ant, Atta fervens, 



Say 33 



Leidy, Jos., M.D. On Bothriocephalic latus .... 40 

 Goldsmith, E. Asphaltum and Amber from Yincenttown, N.J. 40 

 Lyon, Victor W. Descriptions of three new species of Cal- 



ceolidae from the Upper Silurian Rocks of Kentucky . 43 



Ryder, John A. Further notes on the Mechanical Genesis of 



Tooth-forms . .... . . . . . . 4T 



Chapman, H. C, M.D. On the structure of the Chimpanzee . 52 

 Meehan, Thos. Note on Opuntia prolifera .... 64 



Ellis, J. B. On the variability of Spha3ria Quercuum, Schw. . 66 

 Bergh, Dr. R. On the Nudibranchiate Mollusca of the North 



Pacific Ocean, with special reference to those of Alaska . 71 

 Locktngton, W. N. On a new genus and species of Scombridae 133 



&&: 



COLLINS, PRINTER. 






8 



PROCEEDINGS 



(IF THE 



'Art & 



wiring of :\ atttral Sciences 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



PART II, April October, 1879. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



Joseph Leidy, M.D., 

 Wm. S. Vaux, 



Geo. H. Horn, M.D., 

 Thomas Meehan, 



J. II. Redfield. 



EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



S. W. Corner of 19th and Race Streets. 



1879. 




PUBLICATIONS OF 



THE ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Soven volumes of the New Series of the Journal, and Vol. VIII. Part III (Quarto) have 

 been issued 1847 to 1877. The price per volume of four parts is $10, or $3 per part, to sub- 

 scribers; and to others, $12.50 per volume, or $3.75 per part. Vol.7 contains "The Extinct 

 Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and Nebraska, with a Synopsis of ihe Mammalian Remains of 

 North America." Illustrated with thirty plates. By Joseph Le :>y, M.D., LL.D. 



The First Series of the Journal, 1817 to 1 842, in eight volumes octavo, may be obtained 

 at $40 to members, and to the public, $48. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 1841 to 1856, 

 of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, maybe obtained at $24 to members: 

 and to the public, $30. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1 857 (of which fourteen 

 volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870), may be obtained at $42 to members, or $3 per volume 

 separately; and to the public, $3.75 per volume. 



The Third Series of the Proceedings, Illustrated, commencing January 1st, 1871, of 

 which nine volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1879, is published at $5 per annum, payable in 

 advance, to subscribers; single volumes, $6.25. 



American Journal of Conchology, 1S65-71. Seven vols. 8vo. Containing 2500 page?, 

 illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, besides about a thousand wood 

 engravings. Published at $70. Price reduced to $12 for the set. Separate volumes $10 each. 



BOOKS FOR SALE. 



The Academy has the following works for sale at the prices affixed: 

 Description of Shells of North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas Say, 1830- 



34. $10.50. 

 Monograph of the Unionid^e of North America. By T. A. Conrad. 60 uncolored plates, 



octavo, 1840. $8. 

 Fossils of the Tertiary Formation of the United States. By T A. Conrad. Complete, 



with 49 plates, octavo, 1838. $5. 

 Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca of the United States. With Illustrations of 



all the Species. By George W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate paper with duplicate plates, 



colored and tinted, $20; colored edition, $13.50; plain edition, $8.50. Only one hundred 



copies printed, which have been mostly sold. 

 Monograph of the Fresh water Univalve Mollusca of the United States. By S. S. 



Haldeman, 1840-44. With Continuation to 1871. By George W. Tryon, Jr. 2 vols., 



with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, $40; with colored plates, $25: 



with plain plates, $18. 

 Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, 'if desired. 



Synonymy of the Species of Strepomatid^e (Melanians) of the United States. By Geo. 



W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2; paper, $1.75. 

 List of American Writers on Recent Conchology, with the Titles of their Memoirs and 



Dates of Publication. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2; paper, $1.75. 

 Monograph of the Order Pholadacea and other Papers. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, 



$2; paper, $1.75. 

 Complete Writings on Recent and Fossil Conchology of C. S. Rafinesque. Edited by 



Wm. G. Binney and G. W. Tryon, Jr. $2.50. 

 Observations on the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL.D. 4to., Vols. 1 to 13. With Index, 



Nos. 1, 2, and 3, complete. Illustrated with several hundred fine lithographic plates. $60. 

 Same, Vols. 2 to 13 inclusive, except Vols. 4 and 12. Each volume separately, $5. 

 Synopsis of Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL.D. Fourth edition. $3. 

 Contributions to Geology. By Isaac Lea. $5. 

 Fossil Foot-marks. By Isaac Lea. Large folio, text and plate. $2. 

 Same, plate alone. 50 cents. 



Notice to Booksei/leks. All the Publications of the Society will be supplied 

 to Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent, on the prices charged to the public. 



Application to be made to Wm. S. Vaux, Chairman of the Publication Com- 

 mittee, 1702 Arch Street, or to the Librarian, at the Hall of the Academy, corner 

 of Nineteenth and Race Streets. 



Agents, . 



Nov. 1879. 



London, TRUBNER & CO., 



No. 60 Paternoster Row. 



Salem, Mass., NATURALIST'S AGENCY. 





CONTENTS. 



Meehan, Thomas. Om Hybrid Fuchsias .... 

 McCook, Rev. H. C. Note on the Adoption of an Ant-Queen 

 Meehan, Thomas. On Special Fecundity in Plants 

 Ryder, John A. Notice of a new Pauropod . 

 Meehan, Thomas. Do Snakes Swallow their Young? 

 McCook, Rev. H. C. Mode of Depositing Ant-eggs 

 McCook, Rev. H. C. Note on the Marriage-flights of Lasius 



flavus and Myrmica lobricornis 



Chapman, H. C, M.D. Notes on the Amphiuma . 

 Chapman, H. C, M.D. Placenta of Macacus cynomologus . 

 Ryder, Jno. A. Description of a new Species of Chirocephalus 

 McCook, Rev. H. C. Pairing of Spiders, Linyphia inaiginata 

 Dercum, Francis, M.D. The Lateral Sensory Apparatus ot 



Fishes 



McCook, Rev. II. C. Note on Mound-making Ants 

 McCook, Rev. H. C. Combats and Nidification of the Pave 



nient Ant, Tetiamoriura Caespitum .... 

 Ryder, J. A. Honey Glands on Catalpa Leaves 

 Leidy, Jos., M.D. On Rhizopods occurring in Sphagnum 

 Meehan, Thomas. Note on Lonas inodora 

 Ryder, J. A. Larva of Eurypauropus spinosus 

 Leidy, Jos., M.D. Fossil Foot Tracks of the Anthracite Coa 



Measures 



Meehan, Thomas. On Sex in Castanea Americana 



Cope, E. D. On the Genera of Felidaj and Canidae . 



Leidy, Jos., M.D. Explosion of a Diamond . 



Leidy, Jos., M.D. Remarks on Orgyia .... 



McCook, Rev. H. C. On Myrmecocystus Mexicanus, Wesm. 



Leidy, Jos., M.D. Notices of some Animals on the Coast of 



New Jersey, ........ 



Ryder, J. A. Description of a new Branchipod 



Leidy, Jos., M.D. On Cristatella Ida? .... 



Leidy, Jos., M.D. On Amoeba Blattse .... 



Potts, E. On the Supposed Sensitive Character of the Glands 



of the Asclepiadaeeas ....... 



Goldsmith, E. On Amber containing Fossil Insects 

 Leidy, Jos., M.D. Ward's Natural Science Establishments 

 Meehan, Thos. Variations in Thuja and Retinospora 

 Heilprin, Angelo. On some New Eocene Fossils from the 



Claiborne Marine Formation of Alabama. (Plate XIII.) . 



137 

 137 

 138 

 139 

 139 

 140 



HO 

 144 

 146 



148 

 150 



152 



154 



156 

 161 

 162 

 163 

 164 



164 

 165 

 168 

 195 

 195 

 197 



198 

 200 

 203 

 204 



205 

 207 

 208 

 209 



o V5? ;^j&.- 



COLLINS, PIMNTBU. 




PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



Inulemj! of jptural muttm 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



PART III. November and December, 1879. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



Joseph Leidy, M.D., 

 Wm. S. Vadx, 



Geo. H. Horn.M.D., 



Thomas Meehan, 



J. H. Redfield. 



EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



S. W. Corner of 19th and Race Streets. 



1880. 



Si: 




PUBLICATIONS OF 



THE ACADEMY OE NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Seven volumes of the New Series of the Journal, and Vol. VIII. Part III. (Quarto) have 

 been issued 1S47 to 1877. The price per volume of four parts is $10, or $3 per part, to sub- 

 scribers ; and to others, $12.50 per volume, or $3.75 per part. Vol. 7 contains "The Extinct 

 Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mammalian Remains of 

 North America." Illustrated with thirty plates. By Joseph Leidy, M.D., LL.D. 



The First Series of the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes octavo, may be obtained 

 at $40 to members, and to the public, $48. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 1841 to 1856, 

 of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be obtained at $24 to members; 

 and to the public, $30. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of which fourteen 

 volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870), may be obtained at $42 to members, or $3 per volume 

 separately; and to the public, $3.75 per volume. 



The Third Series of the Proceedings, Illustrated, commencing January 1st, 1871, of 

 which nine volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1879, is published at $5 per annum, payable in 

 advance, to subscribers; single volumes, $6.25. 



American Journal of Conchology, 1S65-71. Seven vols. 8vo. Containing 2500 pages, 

 illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, besides about a thousand wood 

 engravings. Published at $70. Price reduced to $42 for the se,t. Separate volumes $10 each. 



BOOKS FOR. SA.LE. 



The Academy has the following works for sale at the prices affixed: 

 Description of Shells of North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas Say, 1830- 



34. $10.50. 

 Monograph of the UnioniDjE of North America. By T. A. Conrad. 60 uncolored plates, 



octavo, 1840. $8. 

 Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca of the United States. With Illustrations of 



all the Species. By George W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate paper with duplicate plates, 



colored and tinted, $20; colored edition, $13.50; plain edition, $8.50. Only one hundred 



copies printed, which have been mostly sold. 

 Monograph of the Fresh water Univalve Mollusca of the United States. By S. S. 



Haldeman, 1840-44. With Continuation to 1871. By George W. Tryon, Jr. 2 vols., 



with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, $40; with colored plates, $25; 



with plain plates, $18. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 



Synonymy of the Species of StretomatiDjE (Melanians) of the United States. By Geo. 



YV. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2; paper, $1.75. 

 List of American Writers on Recent Conchology, with the Titles of their Memoirs and 



Dates dT Publication. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2; paper, $1.75. 

 Monograph of the Order Pholadacea and other Papers. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, 



$2; paper, $1.75. 

 Complete Writings on Recent and Fossil Conchology of C. S. Rafinesque. Edited by 



Wm. G. Binney and G. W. Tryon, Jr. $2.50. 

 Observations on the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL.D. 4to., Vols. 1 to 13. With Index, 



Ns. 1, 2, and 3, complete. Illustrated with several hundred fine lithographic plates. $60. 

 Same, Vols. 2 to 13 inclusive, except Vols. 4 and 12. Each volume separately, $5. 

 Synopsis of Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL.D. Fourth edition. $3. 

 Contributions to Geology. By Isaac Lea. $5. 

 Fossil Foot-marks. By Isaac Lea. Large folio, text and plate. $2. 

 Same, plate alone. 50 cents. 



Notice to Bookselleks. All the Publications of the Society will be supplied 

 to Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent, on the prices charged to the public. 



Application to be made to Wm. S. Vaux, Chairman of the Publication Com- 

 mittee, 1702 Arch Street, or to the Librarian, at the Hall of the Academy, corner 

 of Nineteenth and Race Streets. 



f London, TRUBNER & CO., 

 Agents, .j No. 60 Paternoster Row. 



,, . , OOA \ Salem, Mass., NATURALIST'S AGENCY. 



March, 1880. I 





CONTENTS. 



Heilprtn, Angelo. A Comparison of the Eocene Mollusca of 

 the Southeastern United States and Western Europe in 

 relation to the determination of identical forms 



vYaciismuth, Charles, and Frank Springer. Revision of the 

 Palaeocrinoidea. (Plates XY., XYI.. and XVII.) . 



Gray, Asa. On the Genus Garberia 



Ellis, J. B. Reply to Dr. M. C. Cooke's Criticism on paper on 

 'Variability of Sphseria Quercum, Sz." . 



Kingsley, J. S. On a Collection of Crustacea from Virginia. 

 North Carolina, and Florida, with a revision of the Genera 

 of Crangonidae and Palsemonidse. (Plate XIV.) 



Parker, A. J. Complete Connection of the F 



(Fiss. of Rolando) with the Fossa Sylvii 

 Report of the President .... 

 Report of the Recording Secretary 

 Report of the Corresponding Secretary 

 Report of the Librarian .... 

 Report of the Curators .... 

 Report of Biological and Microscopical Section 

 Report of the Conchological Section . 

 Report <^f the Entomological Section 

 Report of the Botanical Section . 

 Report of the Mineralogical Section . 

 Election of Officers for 1880 

 Index to Genera, 1879 



issura Centralis 



21? 



226 



379 



381 



383 



428 

 432 

 438 

 439 

 440 

 441 

 444 

 445 

 448 

 450 

 454 

 457 

 483 



COLLINS, PRINTER. 






MBL WHOI LIBRARY 



UH IflRD C 





