







PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1875. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



Joseph Leidy, M.D., Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., 



Wm. S. Vadx, Edw. J. Nolan, M.D., 



W. S. W. RtJSCHENBERGER, M.D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



S. W. Corner Nineteenth and Race Streets. 



1875. 




i 



Hall of the Academy of Natural Sciences, 



Philadelphia, March, 1876. 



I hereby certify thai printed copies of the Proceedings for 1875 have been 

 presented al the meetings of the Academy, as follows: 



Pages 





9 to 56 

 57 to 72 

 7:! to 104 

 105 to 120 

 121 to 13G 

 137 to 152 

 153 to 168 

 169 to 200 

 201 to 216 

 217 to 264 

 265 to 328 

 329 to 344 

 345 to 392 

 393 to 408 

 409 to 424 

 425 to 456 

 457 to 488 

 489 to 520 



April 

 May 



; 



June 

 bt 



it 



July 

 i< 



August 



20, 1875. 

 27, 1875. 

 11, 1875. 

 18, 1875. 

 1, 1875. 

 15, 1875. 

 29, 1875. 

 13, 1875. 

 20, 1875. 

 27, 1875. 

 31, 1875. 



September 28, 1875. 

 October 19, 1875. 

 November 2, 1875. 

 December 21, 1875. 

 January 11, 1876. 

 February 22, 1876. 

 March 14, 1876. 



HI) WARD J. NOLAN, M.D., 



Recording Secretary. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



COLLINS, PRINTER. 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS, 



With reference to the several articles contributed by each. 

 For Verbal Communications see General Index. 



Berthoud, E. L. On the Occurrence of Uranium, Silver, Iron, etc., in 



the Tertiary Formation of Colorado Territory 363 



Binney, W. G. On the Jaw and Lingual Membrane of North Ameri- 

 can Terrestrial Pulmonata 140 



On the Lingual Dentition and Genitalia of Partula and other Pulmo- 

 nata. 244 



Chapman, H. C. Observations on the Structure of the Manatee 452 



Conrad, T. A. Descriptions of new Fossil Shells from Peru 139 



Cope, E. D. On Fossil Remains of Reptilia and Fishes from Illinois. 404 



On a new Genus of Lophobranchiate Fishes 450 



Coues, Elliott. Synopsis of the Geomyidae 130 



A critical review of the North American Saccomyidre ' 272 



Fasti Ornithologise Redivivi No. 1, Bartram's Travels 338 



Gently, Thos. G. Curious Anomaly in history of certain Larvae of 

 Acronycta oblinita, Guenee, and hints on Phylogeuy of Lepi- 



doptera 24 



Grote, A. R. On North American Nocture 418 



Lautenbach, B. F. The Physiological Action of Hemlock and its 



Alkaloid 367 



Lewis, James. Descriptions of new species of American Land and 



Fresh Water Shells 334 



Morrison, H. K. Notes on the Noctuidre, with descriptions of certain 



new species 55 



Notes on the Noctuidse, with descriptions of certain new species, No. 



II 428 



Ogden, J. A. Description of a new species of Bird of Paradise of the 



Genus Ptiloris, in the collection of the Academy 451 



Ridgway, Robt. On Nisus Cooperi (Bonaparte), and N. Gundlachi 



(Lawrence) 78 



On the Buteonine Subgenus Craxirex, Gould 89 



Studies of the American Falconidns Monograph of the Genus 



Micrastur 470 



Stearns, R E. C. Descriptions of new Fossil Shells from the Tertiary 



of California 463 





PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1875. 



January 5, 1875. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-two members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 

 " On the Lingual Dentition and Genitalia of Partula and other 

 Pulmonata." By Wm. G. Binney. 



" On the Jaw and Lingual Membrane of North American Ter- 

 restrial Pulmonata." By Wm. G. Binney. 



On the Transition Beds of the Saskatchewan District. Prof. 

 Cope communicated the results of an examination of a series of 

 vertebrate fossils collected near the Milk River by George M. 

 Dawson, geologist of the British North American Boundarv Com- 

 mission. These were derived from beds of the Fort Union Epoch, 

 from a horizon one and two hundred feet above the beds of creta- 

 ceous No. 5. They embrace eight species of reptiles which are 

 determinable from the specimens, representing the two orders 

 Dinosauria and Testudinata. The specimens are the following: 

 Dinosauria, Gionodon stenopsis, sp. nov. ; ?Had?'osaurus, sp. (with 

 the candal vertebra slightly opisthocoelian) ; Compsemys ?victus, 

 Leidy; Compsemys ogmms, sp. nov.; Plastomenus coalescens, sp. 

 nov.; Plastomenus costatus, sp. nov. ; Trionyx ?sp., and Trionyx 

 vagans. The species marked with question are represented by 

 2 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



such fragments as to forbid final determination, though the name 

 given is probably correct. The Dinosaurian remains are most 

 abundant, including fragments of many parts of the skeletons of 

 several species. The Cionodon stenopsis is of about the size of the 

 C. arctatus, Cope, but has a much diminished palatine face of the 

 maxillary bone, and the teeth do not present the longitudinal keel 

 on the lower part of the crown seen in the more southern saurian. 



The species represent a portion of the fauna of the Fort Union 

 Epoch, as observed in Dakota and Colorado, and the presence of 

 Dinosauria demonstrates again its pertinence to the cretaceous 

 period. The genus of tortoises Compsemys, Leidy, is peculiar to 

 the Fort Union Epoch, while Plastomenus, Cope, belongs to the 

 Eocene. Its presence in this fauna would constitute an import- 

 ant assimilation to the lower tertiary, but the specimens are not 

 complete in some points necessary to a final reference. The 

 species are in any case nearly allied to that genus. 



There are, however, gar scales included in the collection, which 

 closely resemble those of the genus Clastes of the lower Eocenes 

 of the Rocky Mountains. This is empirically another indication 

 of near connection with tertiary time, but not conclusive, since 

 allied genera have a much earlier origin in mesozoic time. For 

 the present their occurrence in this fauna cannot be regarded as 

 of much weight in comparison with the presence of numerous 

 Dinosauria, an order which in every other known portion of* the 

 earth perished with the age of ammonites and pterodactyles. 

 Nevertheless the list of species, short as it is, indicates the future 

 discovery of a complete transition from cretaceous to eocene life 

 more clearly than any collection }*et obtained marking this horizon 

 in the West. 



Miner alogical Notes. Prof. Persifor Frazer, Jr., explained that 

 in his communication of Dec. 22, 1874, for Diorite he meant Sya- 

 nite. Prof. Frazer also spoke of some observations recently made 

 by him on a specimen of Chlorite slate in which were found crys- 

 tals of Oligoclase which were again found upon examination to 

 contain other crystals of Chlorite slate. 



January 12. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Seventeen members present. 



The Herpefology of Florida Prof. Cope made some remarks 

 on the Batrachians and Reptiles of Florida. He stated that it 

 formed a distinct subdivision of the Austroriparian region (see 

 Gray's Atlas of the United States, 1873, for a review of the Geo- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



graphical Distribution), the evidence furnished by the lower ver- 

 tebrates confirming that derived from the higher vertebrata and 

 the plants. There are fifteen species of Batrachia and Reptilia 

 not found in any other part of North America ; three of these occur 

 in Cuba, but none elsewhere. He then stated that Mr. Meek had 

 recently sent to the museum of the Smithsonian Institution a spe- 

 cies of Elaps, the E. distans of Kennicott, which had been known 

 previously from the Sonoran region only. This discovery might 

 be associated with that of the western burrowing owl in Florida, 

 and the fact that the Ploridan Ophibolus getulus presents the 

 same number of rows of scales as the black and white Ophiboli of 

 the Sonoran region. 



January 19. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-four members present. 



On a Fungus in a Flamingo. Prof. Leidy remarked that a 

 pair of Flamingoes had recently died in the Garden of the Zoologi- 

 cal Society at Fairmount Park. Dr. Chapman, who had dissected 

 the birds, called his attention to the diseased condition of the lungs 

 of one of them, the other not being affected in this respect. The 

 posterior part of the lungs on both sides, contiguous to the abdo- 

 minal air sacs, was occupied by an indurated brown substance, in 

 striking contrast with the usual bright roseate hue of the neigh- 

 boring pulmonary tissue. An incision made into the indurated 

 substance exhibited a brown compact surface with greenish-black 

 dots which corresponded with the bronchial tubes. On micro- 

 scopical examination the substance was found to be pervaded with 

 a fungous vegetation, and the greenish-black dots were due to the 

 fruit heads profusely covered with colored spores. 



Prof. Owen, upwards of forty years ago, mentioned the existence 

 of a green mould he had observed in the lungs of a Flamingo, 

 which died in the menagerie of the Zoological Societ}^ of London, 

 but he gave no description of the plant by which we can recognize 

 it. Since then many accounts have been given of the existence 

 of fungous vegetation in the diseased lungs of various birds, but 

 I think it has not been determined whether the diseased condition 

 was due to the fungus, or whether this was a subsequent produc- 

 tion. 



The plant observed in our diseased Flamingo belongs to the 

 Moulds or Mucedines, and is evidently an Aspergillus. A number 

 of species of this genus have been described, growing on various 

 deca^ying substanees. The common Blue Mould found in cheese 

 and bread kept in a damp place, is the Aspergillus glaucus. From 

 this the mould of the Flamingo is quite distinct in the structure of 




12 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



the fruiting receptacles, in which respect it more nearly resembles 

 the Aspergillus dubius, growing on rabbit's dung. The Asper- 

 gillus of the Flamingo, I suspect to be the same as one described 

 by M. Robin, under the name of Aspergillus nigrescens, discovered 

 by him in the lungs of a pheasant {Phasianus colchicus) affected 

 with phthisis. 



In the Flamingo mould, the mycelium consisted of a dense flock 

 of delicate ramifying filaments pervading the indurated pulmonary 

 tissue, which consisted largely of nucleated cell elements and 

 granules. The threads of the mycelium were branching:, and occu- 

 pied on the interior with clear globules appearing like rows of 

 beads. The threads measured usually the 3^3 th of a millimetre or 

 less in diameter. 



The fruiting stems (see accompanying figure) were straight, 

 from one-fourth to two-fifths of a millimetre long, not articulated, 

 usually simple, and rarely divided approximating a 

 right angle, near the head. They were about the 

 ^igth mm. wide at the mycelial origin and double 

 the width approaching the head. The head continuous 

 with the stem was pyriform ; or the stem expanded 

 into a globular receptacle, which was closel} r crowded 

 with linear processes, or sporophores, supporting the 

 spherical, translucent colored spores. The latter pro- 

 fusely invested the heads, but were too ripe and 

 readily detached to determine their exact arrangement 

 in relation with the sporophores. These, on the con- 

 trary, remained firmly attached to the receptacle. 



- 



336 diam. 



The receptacles measured from the g^th mm. to the 



eVth 



mm. The stratum of sporophores was from 

 T ^th mm. to the T * 5 th mm. thick. The spores were 

 the 



35 ? d mm. in diameter. 

 By transmitted light, the spores appeared so faintly 

 colored that the tint was undetermined; by reflected 

 light, in mass they appeared of a greenish hue. The 

 receptacles including the sporophores appeared fus- 

 cous by transmitted light, but white by reflected light. 

 In M. Robins' plate of A. nigrescens he represents 

 most of the fruiting stems as articulated, but in our plant none 

 of this character were detected. 



January 26. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-one members present. 



The resignation of Lloyd P. Smith as a member of the Academ}', 

 was read and accepted. 



The following were elected members: 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



13 



J. M. Patterson, Chas. A. Young, Dr. Alex. Muckle, Hugh J. 

 Fagan, Nicholas Leniiig, and Wm. V. McKean. 



The following standing: committees were elected for the year 

 1875 : 



Anthropology. 



J. Aitken Meigs, 

 Henry S. Schcll, 

 J. F. Richardson, 

 Edw. Goldsmith, 

 H. C. Chapman. 



Comparative Anatomy. 

 Harrison Allen, 

 J. IT. McQuillan, 

 Jos. Leidy. 

 H. C. Chapman, 

 R. S. Kenderdine. 



Ornithology. 



Edwin Sheppard, 

 Jas. A. Ogden, 

 Wm. G. Freedly, 

 Richard K. Betts, 

 Sarah P. Monks. 



Articulata. 



Geo. H. Horn, 

 R. S. Kenderdine, 

 T. Hale Streets, 

 John L. LeConte, 

 H. C. Chapman. 



Botany. 



Thomas Meehan, 

 Isaac Burke, 

 J. H. Red field, 

 R. S. Kenderdine, 

 Rachel Bodley. 



Mammalogy. 



Harrison Allen, 

 Edw. D. Cope, 

 H. C. Chapman, 

 U. Smith, 

 Horatio C. Wood, Jr. 



Radiata. 



Geo. H. Horn, 

 J. Hunt, 



R. S. Kenderdine, 

 Samuel B. Howell, 

 Bernard A. Hoopes. 



Stratigraphic Geology. 

 J. P. Lesley, 

 F. V. Hayden, 

 Franklin Piatt, 

 Persifor Frazer, Jr., 

 Clarence S. Bement. 



Vertebrate Palaeontology. 

 Jos. Leidy, 

 Edw. D. Cope, 

 Harrison Allen, 

 Wm. H. Dougherty, 

 Persifor Frazer, Jr. 



Mineralogy. 



Wm. S. Yaux, 

 Edw. Goldsmith, 

 Jos. Wilcox, 

 Clarence S. Bement 

 Persifor Frazer, Jr. 



Physics. 



Robert E. Rogers, 



J. G. Hunt, 



Robt. Bridges, 



J. H. McQuillan, 



Alex. Wilcocks. 

 Invertebrate Palaeontology. 



T. A. Conrad, 



Horatio C. Wood, Jr., 



Persifor Frazer, Jr., 



Geo. A. Konig, 



Edw. D. Cope. 




14 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Ichthyology. 



Edw. D. Cope, 

 Thaddeus Norris, 

 J. H. Redfield, 

 Chas. F. Parker, 

 A. G. Reed. 



Herpetology. 



Edw. D. Cope, 

 Harrison Allen, 

 Samuel B. Howell, 

 Chas. F. Parker, 

 J. Wilson. 



Chemistry. 



F. A. Genth, 

 Robt. Bridges, 

 Edw. Goldsmith, 

 Samuel B. Howell, 

 Rachel Bodley. 



Instruction and Lectures. 

 Hector Tyndale, 

 J. Aitken Meigs, 

 W. S. W. Ruscheuberger, 

 Howard N. Potts, 

 Aubrey H. Smith. 



Library. 



Jos. Leidy, 



Chas. F. Parker, 



Geo. W. Try on, Jr., 



W. S. W. Ruscheuberger, 



J. G. Richardson. 



February 2. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty -eight members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication: 

 "Curious Anomaly in the History of Certain Larvae of Acro- 

 nycta Oblinita, Guenee." By Thomas G. Gentiy. 



" Notes on the Noctuidae, with Descriptions of Certain New Spe- 

 cies." By H. R. Morrison, Cambridge, Mass. 



Notes on some Parasitic Worms. Prof. Leidy remarked that 

 Mr. Henry Horn, assistant superintendent at the Zoological 

 Garden, had given to him several specimens of worms, recently 

 passed by a Bengal tiger. There are three males and eight 

 females, and they appear to be the Ascaris mystacc, which has 

 been found in many other feline species, including the domestic 

 cat and the lion. The characters of the worms from the tiger are 

 as follows: Body almost equally tapering towards the extremities. 

 Female Cephalic end inflexed, with long narrow semi-lanceolate 

 alae. Caudal end straight ; tail short, conical, subacute. Male 

 Cephalic end straight, alated. Caudal end inflexed, and furnished 

 with a row of about two dozen minute round papillae on each side 

 ventrally ; tail short, conical, acuminate. Length of females from 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



15 



2 to 3.} inches ; thickness from | to ^ line. Length of males from 

 13 to 16 lines ; thickness from ^ to ^ line. 



Prof. Leidy further remarked that Mr. Thomas Meehan had 

 submitted to his examination some worms which had been found 

 in an apple. They consisted of one entire individual and the 

 anterior half of a second, and apparently pertain to the Mermis 

 acuminata, along thread-worm which has been discovered infesting 

 the larvae of many insects. Among others it is parasitic in the 

 larva of the codling-moth, or fruit-moth of the apple, which readily 

 accounts for its presence in the fruit. Twenty-five years ago 

 (Proc. 1850, 117) he had described a worm, belonging to the col- 

 lection of the Academy, and labelled as having been obtained from 



a child's mouth, which was evidently the same 

 Fig. 1. species. It having been in a child's mouth is 



probably to be explained by supposing that 

 the child had eaten an infected apple. 



The characters of the present specimens of 

 the worm, both females, are as follows : Body 

 filiform, pale fuscous, narrower anteriorly. 

 Head conical, truncate, with the mouth simple 

 and unarmed. Caudal extremity thicker than 

 the head, obtusely rounded, and furnished with 

 a minute spur-like process. Length 5 inches 

 8 lines ; cephalic end at mouth T ^ mm. ; a short distance below \ 



Head. 



Tail 



mm. 



middle of body f mm.; near caudal end mm. 



mucro 



T2 



mm. long, ^ mm. thick. 



From an Australian wombat, which recently died at the 

 Zoological Garden, Prof. Leidy had obtained from the stomach 

 two specimens of a tapeworm of the genus Taenia. They are 

 three inches long, and about four lines broad at the last joint. 



The characters are as follows: 

 Fig. .2. Entire worm elongated and com- 



pressed pyramidal. Head quad- 

 rate, narrowing below, convex 

 above, furnished laterally with 

 four prominent hemispherical 

 bothria. Neck short, constricted. 

 Segments of the body very short 

 and wide, campanulate with the 

 projecting points giving the body 

 laterally a serrate appearance. 

 From the intermediate joints a 

 narrow conical papilla protruded 

 from each side of the same joint, 

 but none could be made to pro- 

 trude from the back joints, from 

 which globular white ova were 

 expressed measuring 0.052 mm. 

 segments i inch from head. 9 diain. diameter. Head f of a line in 



Head. 12 diam. 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



breadth. One inch from the head six segments occupied the space 

 of a line ; at the posterior part of the bod}' four segments occu- 

 pied the same extent. The species appeal's not to have been pre- 

 viously described, and may, therefore, be named Taenia bipapil- 

 losa. 



The Extinct Batrachia of Ohio. Prof. Cope stated that the 

 explorations of the coal measures in eastern Ohio conducted 

 during the past season by Prof. Newberry, State Geologist, had in- 

 creased the number of species of extinct Batrachians to thirty-three. 

 A new genus and species were described under the name of Pleu- 

 roptyx clavatus, which is remarkable for the structure of its ribs. 

 Each of these presents a wide thin ala on its posterior face, which 

 is abruptly discontinued below. The shaft of the rib is short and 

 enlarged distally, where it is hollow and truncate. The vertebras 

 are as large as those of the anaconda, and there is no ventral 

 armature preserved. Another genus exhibits two strata of chev- 

 rons in an armature of ventral rods, the angle of the upper having 

 an opposite direction to that of the lower. The gular scuta are 

 smooth. It was named Hyphasma Isevis. An interesting addition 

 to the fauna was stated to be a new species of the horned genus 

 Ceraterpeton, Huxl. The head is relatively large, and covered 

 witli recticulate ridges separated by rows of impressed dots. 

 Horns long, stout, and incurved. It was called C.punctolineatum. 



Prof. Persifor Frazer, Jr., exhibited a combination of the 

 polarizer, vertical lantern, and microscope, by means of which the 

 manner in which different salts crystallized out of their solutions, 

 together with the manner in which the}' affect polarized light, was 

 explained and illustrated by solutions of potassium chlorate and 

 urea in alcohol. The light from a lime lantern is passed tli rough 

 the elbow-tube polarizer, thence upward through the vertical lantern 

 and the two-inch lens microscope, when it is again reflected hori- 

 zontally on the screen. After the formation of the crystals had 

 been shown by plain polarized light, the analyzer was inserted and 

 the characteristic colors of polarization produced. It was ex- 

 plained that while this method had the advantage of so magnify- 

 ing the crystals produced from small quantities of solutions that 

 their structure could be minutely observed, as well as the sudden 

 molecular change which caused the polarizing effect, it was open 

 to the objection of a very large loss of light first, by the polar- 

 izer, and again by the microscope. It was suggested that a means 

 of obviating at least a part of this difficulty would be the use of 

 the parabolic reflector, in connection with the first condenser. 



Prof. Frazer then proceeded to exhibit the microscopic structure 

 of thin sections of some of the Palaeozoic rocks found in York and 

 Adams Counties, Pa. A map of the region whence the specimens 

 were collected was first thrown on the screen and the geological 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



formations described. After explaining the manner in which the 

 thin sections were prepared, the following specimens were ex- 

 hibited : A piece of Diorite from the northeastern corner of 

 Saxony, a foliated chlorite slate, ferruginous gneiss. Nes'silicon 

 steel ore, Diorite, qnartzite rock with magnetic iron ore from the 

 northeastern part of York County, hornblende slate, limestone 

 containing particles of a substance probably apatite, a syenite 

 from Germany, with hornblende, quartz, and orthoclase, and a 

 syenite from near Gettysburg. The gizzard of a cockroach was 

 also exhibited and shown to produce beautiful colors in polarized 

 light. 



February 9. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Nineteen members present. 



Notes on some Parasitic Worms Prof. Leidy exhibited some 



nematoid worms, on which he made the following remarks: 



One of the species is common in feline animals, and is the Asca- 

 ris mystax. The specimens, consisting of fifteen females and five 

 males, had been sent to Dr. Chapman, by Mr. Thompson, Superin- 

 tendent of the Zoological Garden, who reports that they had been 

 passed by the American wild-cat. The females measure from 2^- 

 to 4 inches in length, by to of a line in thickness. The males 

 measure from 2^ to 2^ inches in length, by ^ to ^ a line in thick- 

 ness. The specimens are larger, and the alas of the head propor- 

 tionally better developed, and therefore more conspicuous than in 

 those noticed at the previous meeting as having been passed by 

 the Bengal tiger. The worms of the tiger are such as have been 

 described under the name of Ascaris leptotera, which appears to 

 be only a variety of A. mystax. 



The other worm is a Filaria, apparently an undescribed species. 

 Half a dozen individuals of the two sexes were obtained from the 

 peritoneal cavity of an Australian Whallabee, which recently died 

 in the garden of the Zoological Society. The characters of the 

 parasite are as follow: 



Filaria spelasa Body filiform, translucent wdiitish, tapering at 



the extremities. Cephalic end straight, obtusely rounded, fur- 

 nished with four equidistant papillre around the mouth. Caudal 

 end narrowest, rather abruptly attenuated, and spirally rolled once 

 or twice, and terminating obtusely. A distinct anal aperture ob- 

 servable in the female. A row of eight papillae on each side ven- 

 trally of the caudal end of the male; three in advance and the 

 others back of the genital aperture. Penis a long, tubular style, 

 thick at the upper part, narrow and curved below. Accessoiy piece 

 a short, thick, curved tube, widening at the upper end in a spade- 

 like, furcate portion. 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



(Esophagus long, cylindrical, as wide as the succeeding intes- 

 tine. 



Measurements: Female, length 10 inches, thickness ^th line. 

 Length of tail from anal aperture |ths mm. Male, length 4 to 4^ 

 inches; thickness ^th. inch. Tail, from genital aperture, forms 

 of a circle \ a mm. in diameter. Penis |ths mm. long ; accessory 

 piece ith mm. long. 



On Increase of Power in Plants to Resist Gold. Mr. Thomas 

 Meehan referred to a tuber of Solarium Fendleri, exhibited by 

 him some months ago, and which had taken a departure towards 

 those of the common potato. He had offered some suggestions in 

 relation to the possibility of a common origin of these two spe- 

 cies ; but among the improbabilities he had classed the power of 

 resisting cold ; as, while the common potato was easily destroyed 

 by frost, Fendler's potato endured without injury a temperature 

 of zero. He had been under the impression that whatever change 

 plants might experience in the course of ages, the adaptation to 

 special temperatures was nearly if not quite unchangeable. 



A recent experience, however, suggested the possibilit}^ of more 

 change than he had supposed. During the very low temperature, 

 with the high wind of a few weeks ago, the frost to the extent of 

 two degrees or so, and for a short time, got into a green-house 

 with blooming plants, some of which were injured by it. Among 

 these were Calla, G. JEthiopica, Browallia elata, Bouvardias, Be- 

 gonias, and some others. The light frost, in the case of all but 

 the first named, destroyed the leaves, but left the flowers uninjured. 

 The flowers in their several parts are but metamorphosed leaves, 

 and thus we see that with the morphological advance of the leaf 

 to a petal came an increased physiological power to endure cold. 

 In the case of the Calla, the flowers as well as the leaves were de- 

 stroyed, illustrating the same law, as the spathe of this flower is 

 but a leaf very slightly changed, and consequently more subject 

 to the laws regulating leaf life. 



There was nothing quite new in these observations, as all must 

 remember that when the first light frost kills the Dahlias, Chrys- 

 anthemums, and other tender plants, the petals would often re- 

 main uninjured after the leaves had been blackened by frost; and 

 also the fact that when the leaves of plants became still more 

 highly metamorphosed, and became seeds, those of the tenderest 

 plants would often endure considerable cold. Thus the seeds of 

 the common Gonvolmdus or morning glor} 7 , and of the Balsam 

 or lady's slipper, as it is called in American gardens, would live 

 out in the earth in our severe climate and grow in the spring, 

 though the plants would be killed by a single degree of frost. 



The subject was attracting some attention just now through a 

 paper of Professor De Candolle, abstracts of which were now going 

 through scientific serials, in which he is made to say that in the 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



many changes which species have encountered through the course 

 of ages, the peculiar adaptation to special temperatures has been 

 among the least changeable of characters. Of course what are 

 known as theories of evolution hardly find a parallel in the cases 

 he had referred to. Evolution deals with the modification of 

 organs. It is still the same organ though changed in form. The 

 modified leaf is still a leaf, though it may be contended to be 

 specifically distinct from its parent. In the cases he brought for- 

 ward it was an absolute change of one organ to another organ. 



OCT ' 



Yet he thought it was impossible to conceive of evolutionary 

 movements wholly independent of morphological laws. However, 

 he offered the facts for whatever they might be worth, and the 

 suggestions on them only as leading to thought on the greater 

 question. 



On Green-Sand Vertebrate/. Prof. Cope made some observa- 

 tions on the vertebrates of the New Jersey' cretaceous, and de- 

 scribed the characteristics of several species of gavials. The genus 

 Hyposaurus possesses a sagittal crest. The H. fractercuhis, Cope, 

 is the smallest of the species, and must be referred to the genus 

 Gavtalis. The chimseroid fishes are very abundant, about twenty 

 species being included in a monograph of them now in course of 

 publication. They belong to the genera Leptomylus, Cope, Diph- 

 rissa, Cope (type Ischyodus solidulus), Ischyodus, Egvt., and 

 others. Leptomylus for/ex, and numerous other species were de- 

 scribed for the first time. 



Effects of Cold on Iron. Mr. Willard referred to two in- 

 stances of the brittleness of iron under the prevailing low tempe- 

 ratures which he noticed yesterday. In breaking up an old loco- 

 motive, the cutting off of the rivet heads, which usually requires 

 heav}' sledging, was effected by a single blow, as if they were 

 made of cast iron. In the forging of a long steamboat shaft of 

 the best hammered iron which hung balanced in a crane, the ham- 

 mering of the heated end caused vibration in the overhung end 

 harmless in ordinary temperatures, but at 10 P. sufficient to 

 cause the beam to break sharp near the point of support. The 

 published tests of iron and steel show no loss of tensile strength 

 at low temperatures under a gradual stress, but all experience 

 shows great loss of body, or ability to resist a blow. 



February 1G. 

 The President, Dr. Puschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-eight members present. 



Mr. Henszey announced that Mr. Isaiah V. Williamson had 

 given to the Academy ground-rents to the amount of $25,000, the 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



interest of which is to be applied to the purchase of books for the 

 library, and ottered the following preamble and resolutions, which 

 were unanimously adopted: 



Whereas, Our esteemed friend, Isaiah V. Williamson, having 

 made a donation to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia of the principal sum of Twenty-five Thousand and Eight 

 Dollars T 4 o<j ( in ground-rent securities) as a permanent fund for 

 the increase of the Library, it is proper that a suitable acknowl- 

 edgment should be made ; therefore, 



Besolved, That the liberal donation made by Isaiah V. William- 

 son, Esq., of Twenty-five Thousand and Eight Dollars T 4 o, as a 

 permanent fund for the use of the library, is of the greatest value 

 in the promotion of science, thereby enabling students of the 

 Academy to pursue their investigations with knowledge of all the 

 information of the age, and that the Society therefore tender to 

 him its most cordial thanks. 



That this fund be named the I. V. Williamson Fund, and that 

 the committee on the library be directed to prepare a suitable 

 book-plate to include a record of the amount and date of accept- 

 ance of the gift, to mark every volume acquired through the I.V. 

 Williamson Library Fund, so that students may know to whom 

 they are indebted for such indispensable aid. 



That the library committee be requested to obtain a portrait of 

 Mr. I. V. Williamson and place it in the library among those of 

 the distinguished philanthropists who have been benefactors of 

 the Academ} r . 



That a copy of the above preamble and resolutions, signed by 

 the officers of the Society, be transmitted to Isaiah V. Williamson, 

 Esq. 



On motion of Prof. Frazer it was 



Resolved, That a committee be appointed by the President 

 which shall seek the co-operation of such scientific men throughout 

 the country as it shall see proper to invite to join them in an effort 

 to have a collection of ores, newer and rarer minerals, and other 

 objects of natural history of the country at the coming Centennial 

 exhibition. 



On (he Homologies of the Sectorial Tooth of Camivora. Prof. 

 Cope made the following remarks on the probable origin of the 

 sectorial tooth. 



The series of dental types which precede the complex struc- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



tares of teeth presented by the most specialized divisions of the 

 hoofed mammalia, have been pointed out by the writer in an 

 essay On the Origin and Homologies of the Types of Dentition 

 of the Mammalia Educabilia. 1 From this discussion the analysis 

 of the most specialized sectorial tooth of the carnivora, as seen in 

 the Felidse, was omitted. As light has been thrown on the subject 

 by later researches, a note of the conclusions will be made here, 

 chiefly with reference to the dentition of the lower jaw. 



In the above essay I regarded the simple fonr-lobed or quadri- 

 tnbercnlate molar of the hypothetical Bunotherium as the starting 

 point of all more specialized forms of crested teeth. The second 

 and third lower molars of the peccaries (Dicotyles) represent such 

 a type. It was also pointed out that additional tubercles may be 

 added to this, or to a still simpler form, by the development of 

 basal cingula. 



The genus Hyopsodus presents a modified form of quadrituber- 

 culate molar ; in the genera Pantolestes and Antiacodon we observe 

 that the tubercles are similar, excepting that the anterior inner is 

 slightly bifid. In Pelycodus (whose systematic position is uncer- 

 tain) the two apices of this tubercle are separated more widely 

 from each other, so as to constitute two cusps. These are con- 

 nected with the anterior outer cusp by acute ridges which thus 

 form two sides of a triangular area ; the anterior ridge is evidently 

 a developed cingulum. 



The tubercular molar of some Viverridse, and among extinct 

 forms especially of the Didymictis protenus, Cope, presents a simi- 

 lar structure to that just described. This furnishes a ready expla- 

 nation of the tooth immediately in advance, which is the primitive 

 form of sectorial tooth characteristic of that t}-pe of carnivora. 

 The three anterior tubercles are largely developed, standing at 

 opposite angles of a triangular space; the outer and anterior 

 cusps are the most elevated, and the ridge which connects them is 

 now a short cutting blade. The posterior portion of the tooth 

 does not share in this elevation, and its two tubercles are in some 

 genera replaced by an elevation of one margin which leans obliquely 

 towards the middle of the crown. In Mesonyx this is rep'esented 

 by a median longitudinal crest. If the two tubercles of the pos- 

 terior part of this tooth (which may be termed a tubercular sec- 

 torial) are elevated and acute, we have the molar of many recent 

 and extinct Insectivora ; if the same portion, now called a heel, 

 is much reduced, we have the type of Oxysena and Stypolophus. 

 In the Canidse the three anterior tubercles are much less elevated 

 than in the genera above named ; the external is much the larger, 

 and the anterior removed further forwards so as to give the blade 

 a greater antero-posterior extent. The heel is larger and without 

 prominent tubercles. In the Mustelidse the inner of the two 

 median cusps is often reduced to a rudiment, or is entirely wanting, 



1 Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 1874. 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



and the heel is large. The lower sectorial of the Hysenidae has 

 no inner tubercle, and the heel is much reduced. In some of the 

 sabre-toothed tigers, the heel remains as a mere rudiment, while 

 in the true cats it has entirely disappeared, and the carnassial 

 tooth remains perfected by subtraction of parts as a blade con- 

 necting two subequal cusps. The Hyaenodontidse, as is known, 

 possess three carnassial teeth without inner tubercles. The history 

 of this form is as yet uncertain, as it was evidently not derived 

 from contemporary forms of the Eocene with tubercular sectorials. 



The development of the carnassial dentition has thus been ac- 

 complished, first by an addition of anterior cusp, and subsequently 

 by the subtraction of the inner and posterior cusps, so that of the 

 original four of the quadrituberculate molar but a single one, i.e., 

 the anterior external, remains. The same process may be observed 

 in the successional modifications of the entire dentition of the 

 jaws. The Eocene forms of Carnivora frequently display more 

 numerous sectorial teeth (such as they are) than any of the ex- 

 isting families. The important change which is clearly indicated 

 is the progressive extinction of the genera with numerous sectorial 

 teeth, accompanying the increasing specialization of the sectorial 

 tooth in the genera which remain. In other words, the numerous 

 types of digitigrade carnivora which have survived, are those 

 developing but one sectorial tooth (whose earliest representative 

 is Didymictis). The increased perfection of the sectorial has been 

 associated with a reduction in the number of other molars, first 

 posterior, then anterior to it, which reduction has been accompanied 

 by an increased relative size of the sectorial. By this process 

 concentration of the carnassial function has been gained, and in- 

 creased robustness of the jaws, by progressive shortening. The 

 slender form of the rami of the Eocene genera and Hysenodon, are 

 much less efficient in functional use than the stout jaws of existing 

 Mustelidae, Hysenldse, and Felidse. 



A second point in the history of the Eocene Carnivora remains 

 to be considered. In all of the genera which I have had the 

 opportunity of examining, excepting Mesonyx, namely, Ambloc- 

 tonus, OxysencL) Prototomus, and Didymictis, the tibio-astragalar 

 articulation is of a primitive character. The astragalus is flat, 

 and the applied surfaces are nearly plane, and without the pulley- 

 shaped character seen in existing Carnivora, as dogs, cats, and, in 

 a less degree, in the bears, and in other Mammalia with specialized 

 extremities, as Perlssodactylci , Artiodactyla, etc. The simplicity 

 of structure resembles, on the other hand, that found in the op- 

 possum, and various Insectivora, Rodentla, and Quadrumana, and 

 in the Proboscldia, most of which have the generalized type of 

 feet. The structure indicates that the carnivorous genera named 

 were plantigrade, a conclusion which is in conformity with the 

 belief, already expressed, that the Mammalia of the Eocene exhibit 

 much less marked ordinal distinction than do those of the Miocene 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



and the recent periods. It is indeed questionable whether some of 

 the genera here included in the Carnivora are not gigantic Insec- 

 tivora, since the tibio-tarsal articulation in many, the separation 

 of the scaphoid and lunar bones in Synoplotherium, the form of 

 the molars, and the absence of incisor teeth in some, are all char- 

 acteristic of the latter rather than the former order. 



February 23. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-four members present. 



Dr. Geo. H. Horn was elected a member of the Council, to fdl 

 the vacancy created by the resignation of Dr. LeConte. 



J. Towers Pennypacker, Peter F. Rothermel, and Charles E. 

 Hall were elected members. 



The Committees to which they had been referred recommended 

 the following papers to be published : 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



CURIOUS ANOMALY IN HISTORY OF CERTAIN LARViE OF ACRONYCTA 

 OBLINITA, GUENEE, AND HINTS ON PHYLOGENY OF LEPIDOPTERA. 



BY THOMAS G. GENTRY. 



In the autumn of 1813, numerous larvae of Acronycta oblinitawere 

 observed by the writer feeding upon the leaves of Polygonum 

 Pennsylvanicum. Their ravages were confined to a limited region, 

 in which a plentiful supply of their favorite food was found to 

 meet the most vigorous demands. Within a space of fifty feet 

 square, more than a hundred were counted. A diligent search 

 through the adjoining country failed to reveal any further traces 

 of them. As this species of weed is particularly prolific in Ger- 

 mantown, I had hoped to meet with other larvae of the same 

 species. Instances have occurred in the writer's experience, and 

 doubtless in the experience of others, of comparatively small 

 scopes of countiy yielding ample nourishment to hosts of larvae of 

 a particular species. This is usually noticeable among lepidop- 

 tera, which instinctively deposit their ova either in single clusters, 

 or in small collections but slightly isolated from each other. 

 Vanessa antiopa affords a familiar illustration of the foregoing 

 assertion. 



During the summer of 1867, I daily observed in a grove of red 

 maples a desperate encounter which a score of Calosoma scrutator 

 was waging against the harmless, though terrible-looking cater- 

 pillars of Vanessa antiopa. Although the destruction was on a 

 singularly grand scale, yet hundreds of larvae remained to undergo 

 their transformations during the latter part of August. The eaves 

 of the buildings in close proximity, fence rails, and in short nearby 

 every available place, were hung with the angular chrysalides. So 

 numerous were the latter, that after the final metamorphoses had 

 passed, the red fluid which was ejected by the tender and newly- 

 formed butterflies, gave everything the appearance of having been 

 profusely spattered with blood. 



The area subjected to the desolating influence of these larvae, 

 did not cover less than two acres of ground. It is worthy of re- 

 mark, that during the same summer this section of country was 

 unfortunately visited by legions of Cicada septemdecim. 



It is but occasionally in many years that unusual numbers of a 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



particular species make their appearance in the same locality. A 

 combination of circumstances exists to impose an effectual check 

 upon the undue multiplication of insect life, where nature is not 

 interfered with b}>- man's devices. There are without doubt, in the 

 case referred to, assignable causes for such an undue increase. 



Coming back from this digression, the larvae of Acrony eta con- 

 tinued to feed during the entitle month of October before entering 

 into the pupa state. Asa matter of convenience, many were taken 

 home hy the writer, placed within a vivarium, and fed indiscrimi- 

 nately upon the leaves of various species of Polygonum, with 

 remarkable success. 



During the latter part of the feeding-time, there being a scarcity 

 of food plants in the immediate neighborhood in which he resided, 

 the thermometer indicating a rather low degree of temperature, 

 his charges were uncared for, and permitted to ramble about their 

 cage for days without suitable and wholesome nourishment. In 

 this predicament many passed into pupae. 



It is well known that the larva of this species constructs a 

 slightly spindle-shaped cocoon. To constitute a framework for 

 this essential covering, it places itself upon a small branch where 

 there is an abundance of leaves at convenient distances which it 

 unites by a perfect network of fibres, stretching from leaf to leaf, 

 or from stalk to leaves, lengthening and shortening as necessity 

 demands, until the desired configuration is assumed. Within this 

 structure, after the lapse of a definite period, it passes into a 

 chrysalis. 



Being a spinner of silk, this Noctuid approximates very closelj r 

 a Bombycid, the numerous members of whose family, with com- 

 paratively few exceptions, are cocoon-builders. So intimately 

 related to this family is the genus Acronycta, that it has been re- 

 tained in the tribe Bombycoides of Hubner. So important is the 

 habit of cocoon-manufacture, that it constitutes one of the chief 

 points of distinction between Nocturnal and Diurnal Lepidoptera. 

 For a species that has been proverbial for cocoon-making, any 

 marked deviation from what has been ordinarily observed, would 

 excite no little surprise, and, doubtless, would be accepted by some 

 who are slaves to their prejudices, with considerable hesitation. 



While the majority of my larvae of Acronycta passed through 

 their transformations in the normal manner, at least three without 

 the slightest attempt at cocoon-making, like the larva of Thyreus 

 3 




26 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Abboltii, la}' upon the surface of the soil, and after a period of five 

 da3 r s entered the chrysalis form. By comparison with chrysalides 

 which had been divested of their silken coverings, I could not dis- 

 cern more than ordinary variation. These chrysalides developed 

 into male moths. 



That differences occur in the size, shape, and color of cocoons, 

 1 am convinced beyond a doubt. The surroundings of a larva and 

 the quantity of its food, have much to do with the size and con- 

 figuration of its cocoon; while the character and quality of the 

 food affect the color of the same. 



Where the molecules of matter that enter into the physical com- 

 position of a leaf maintain a nearly perfect stability, by under- 

 going few or no re-arrangements, the characteristic color will be 

 reflected. Various circumstances, such as the existence of an acid, 

 tend to bring about these molecular re-arrangements. The punc- 

 ture of a leaf by a Cynip, and the want of healthy action therein 

 by inability to decompose the carbonic acid of the atmosphere, are 

 producing causes. 



We are all familiar with the changes which leaves undergo in 

 the autumn consequent upon the diminished flow of sap into their 

 petioles, and the somewhat lessened vigor of the sun, that source 

 of life and light, passing from green to black through the transi- 

 tional tints of yellow, orange, red, and brown. 



If the colors of leaves are determined in a measure b} r molecular 

 arrangements, why may not the introduction of certain kinds of 

 food into an insect's economy, materially different from what it 

 has been accustomed to, so impress with change the organs whose 

 functional business it is to elaborate the fluid which it utilizes 

 in the manufacture of its cocoon as to reflect different colors or 

 shades of colors ? I can see no difficulty in the matter. Indeed, 

 it has been shown that if the mulberiy silkworm, Bombyx mori, 

 be fed upon its natural food for a limited period, and then upon 

 the leaves of different plant-species, it will elaborate a thread dis- 

 similar in color to what is ordinarily produced. To the success 

 of this experiment it is not absolutely essential that the larva 

 should be fed upon its natural food primarily as asserted, as some 

 late experiments of mine testify. 



Where the essential conditions are present, such as abundance 

 of leaves of natural food-plant, and a freedom upon the part of 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 27 



the insect to cany out its natural instincts, the cocoon of the same 

 species varies but little, if at all, from the characteristic type. 



It is well known that birds vary their styles of architecture in 

 correspondence with changes in their environment. What just 

 reason can be adduced for non-variation in the cocoon-making of 

 silk-spinners? Primitively, when the natural sequence of events 

 was not disarranged by the devices of man, a remarkable degree 

 of uniformity, doubtless, prevailed mnidifi 'cation among individuals 

 of the same species ; but, latterly, with some exceptions, however, 

 varieties do occur which betray such marked deviations from ordi- 

 nary types that to the most experienced and critical eye they seem 

 stamped with a newness of design truly astonishing. In the 

 absence of positive evidence per contra, they might, with some 

 show of reason, be attributed to the workmanship of essentially 

 different species of unknown habits. 



Sticklers for the doctrine of never-varying instinct as determin- 

 ing and controlling the actions of the feathered creation in oppo- 

 sition to intelligent reason, would easily persuade themselves, no 

 doubt, that perceptible differences did not occur, and would argue 

 that the same species manufactured the identical style of nest in 

 these latter times as in the beginning, in the face of the strongest 

 array of evidence. I 



Instances of variation have been recorded in ornithological 

 literature. The writer has noticed in the Proceedings of the 

 Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences, a remarkable devia- 

 tion fron the typical nest in the case of Sayornis fuscus, Baird, 

 so striking and marked as to elicit considerable astonishment, but 

 based upon the most satisfactory and positive evidence. 



If changes be introduced into the environment of a species of 

 avis, by the arts of civilized life or otherwise, sufficiently potent to 

 im [tress its sensorium, so as necessarily to lead to changes of habit 

 whereby a continuance of the species is provided for, and the 

 existing harmony of a moiety of creation remains undisturbed, 

 the argument is irresistible, that, in localities where the food-plant 

 or plants of a larva have disappeared through human civilization, 

 or defeat in the plant's "struggle for existence," being supplanted 

 by another better adapted to the new conditions of life, the insect 

 itself will either succumb or adapt itself to the altered phase of 

 affairs. 



Such facts as this hypothetical case presupposes, have fallen 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



under my notice. Eacles imperialism Hiibner, was, a few years ago, 

 always to be looked for upon coniferous plants. During the last 

 three years but few individuals have been observed upon plants of 

 this family ; for every one feeding thereon, scores have been taken 

 from Acer rubrum and A. saccharinum : occasionally from the En- 

 glish walnut, Juglans regia. Citheronia regalis, Fabr., upon Acer 

 rubrum. Platysamia cecropia upon Mibes rubrum, Acer rubrum, 

 A. saccharinum, and Pyrus mains. Other examples might be cited, 

 but enough have been adduced for the writer's purposes. In the 

 cases of regalis and imperialis, alterations in larval structure 

 have occurred, as diminution in size, smaller development of spini- 

 ferous tubercles, color variations to a limited degree ; and in case 

 of imperialis particularly, comparative smoothness of body, very 

 few hairs being noticeable. Still further changes have been ob- 

 served. It is stated in books that many larva? which enter the 

 ground preparatory to assuming the chrysalis form, ordinarily 

 construct earthen cells which they line with a thin la3'er of silk, 

 and subsequently coat with a varnish-like secretion, to render 

 them impervious to water. That this is only occasionally so, I am 

 satisfied from years of experience. That regalis and imperialis 

 enter the ground is the common experience of lepidopterists ; but 

 it is not necessarily so. In many instances, I have witnessed the 

 change effected near the surface of the soil, within a slight cavity 

 which the larvae by their motions had created, and with considerable 

 portions of the upper surfaces exposed. Again, the change has 

 occurred upon the surface of the soil, without even the slightest 

 attempt at cell-making being manifested. It is necessary to state in 

 connection herewith, that the larvae were amply provided with earth 

 of the proper consistency, so there could not have been, as far as 

 could be discerned, any obstacle to the fulfilment of their usual habit. 

 Thyreus Abbottii in the chrysalis form has been found reposing 

 upon the surface of the ground underneath the shelter of a culti- 

 vated variety of Vitis cordifolia, Mich., in a very open and ex- 

 posed situation ; undoubtedly the identical spot which the larva 

 reached after separating itself from its favorite food-plant, was 

 the scene of its assumption of the chrysalis state. This circum- 

 stance appears curious and unique, in view of the fact that ordi- 

 narily there is a disposition upon the part of larvae to seek seques- 

 tered situations. 



After this rehearsal of facts to show that the surroundings of a 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 29 



species operate to produce functional changes within its economy, 

 the rare occurrence of a cocoon-making species laying aside this 

 hitherto supposed indispensable habit, becomes divested in a 

 measure of the mystery which envelops it, without losing any of 

 its interest. 



To assign a cause for this anomalous natural occurrence shall 

 be my aim. In a series of experiments which I recently conduct- 

 ed of starving larvae to ascertain the effects produced upon their 

 economy, I have been led to observe that in cases effectually ac- 

 complished, there is, besides a remarkable diminution in natural 

 size, in cocoon-producing species, as Cecropia, Polyphemus, etc., 

 a considerable saving of silk. Last year I produced cocoons of 

 Polyphemus, three-quarters of an inch in length, by less than one- 

 half in thickness. The flies which emerged from these cocoons 

 measured If inches in expanse of wings. In the generality of 

 cases males were the result of starvation. 



This last year I fed a number of Cecropia upon the leaves of our 

 ordinary red currant. One of the cocoons which I gathered was 

 less than one inch in length with a thickness of one-half inch. 

 Prompted b}' curiosity, I tore the cocoon open and discovered that 

 the larva had been ichneumoned. In the place of a chiysalis was 

 found the black cylindrical cocoon such as we ordinarily find in such 

 cases. The larva had undergone its skin shedding, as evidenced by 

 the dried inverted skin which was shoved into one corner of the co- 

 coon. In this case, the larva, being weakened and diseased by the 

 ravages of an internal foe, had not the material, or the power, to 

 construct the characteristic type of cocoon. In the case of Polyphe- 

 mus adverted to, scarcity of food, and of an innutritious character 

 in the bargain, had reduced the insect to a condition which ren- 

 dered it powerless to produce the typical form. 



May not the stinting process which necessity compelled -me to 

 adopt with some larvae of Acronycta, have had the effect of deter- 

 mining the acquired habit which has been noticed ? The silk-pro- 

 ducing glands of Acronycta, in consequence of a diminished supply 

 of aliment, were not provided with the requisite material for the 

 manufacture of silk, there being a bare sufficiency of food to 

 prevent starvation to the insect. These silk organs are most de- 

 veloped at the period when the insects approach their pupa state ; 

 but with the larvae of Psychidee, Tortricidse, and Lasiocampidse, 

 they are already active during the earl}'' epochs of life. As the 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



necessity for their use mainly occurs in the interval between the 

 last skin moulting and assumption of the pupa form, they would 

 attain during this period their functional maturity. There may 

 be instances where growth has received a check through adverse 

 climatic influences or otherwise, and the functional activity of 

 these glands has been early attained. If in Acronycta the mature 

 stage had been reached, and the nutriment provided was insuffi- 

 cient to maintain both the life of the larva and the functional 

 activity of the glands, it seems evident that the most vital organs 

 would be sustained at the hazard of those less vital. 



In larvae which do not manufacture cocoons the silk-bearing 

 glands exist, but so reduced in size that they are functionally use- 

 less where great quantities of silk are required. It is true these 

 larvae manufacture silk, but in such exceedingly limited quantities 

 as to be of little or no service for cocoon-making. The Diurnals, 

 as is well known, are able to spin several strands, by which they 

 suspend and engirdle themselves when about to pass into 

 chrysalides. Some moths of the great family Bombycidse make 

 no cocoons, but these are the exceptions rather than the rule. 

 The major part of them are cocoon-builders. While some con- 

 struct the merest apology, others, Cecropia, for example, attain 

 to the highest perfection in the art. The Arctians produce very 

 little silk in comparison with Cecropia ; their silk-bearing glands 

 being necessarily small. The larva of Arctia achaia, Grote, spins 

 a very thin web of a drab color, through which the chrysalis is 

 distinctly seen. The Sphinges would seem to occupy an interme- 

 diate position ; the earthen cells which they build, with their slight 

 lining of silk, being the homologues of cocoons, since they subserve 

 the same essential purpose. Thyreus Abbottii seems to be a real 

 exception. But no. It ordinarily seeks some sheltered locality 

 in which to undergo its critical changes the under surface of a 

 fallen log or a board, where an abundance of decomposing leaves 

 affords the necessary warmth and shelter. It is obvious that the 

 necessity for a cell does not exist, if the foregoing facts afford any 

 criteria. 



In the anomalous cases of Acronycta referred to above, it seems 

 to me that we have proofs of the manner in which cocoons 

 have come to be dispensed with in certain Bombycids. That de- 

 fective nutrition has been a principal cause almost amounts to a 

 conviction. A parallel case is cited by Stretch in his " Zygaanidae 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31, 



and Bombycidse of X. A." Having taken a number of larvae of 

 Arachnis picta, Packard, on the 9th of May, 1870, near San 

 Francisco, he placed them in a box, and furnished them with a 

 plentiful supply of their appropriate food for two weeks. They 

 declined to eat, however, and remained thus for a period ex- 

 ceeding three months, when they passed into chrysalides, a few 

 without spinning cocoons. The remainder, as though all the 

 moisture in the body had been eliminated during their protracted 

 fast, wove a very thin open wdiite web, dotted with minute glisten- 

 ing beads like tin}' dew-drops. Here there can be no doubt as to 

 the part which lack of nutrition has played. If these examples of 

 almost complete starvation had appeared late in the season, the 

 effects would have been attributed in a measure to climatic influ- 

 ence ; but, in the language of Mr. Stretch, they were brought 

 about " in the height of summer." 



Some few of the Bombycidse are not cocoon-builders, but merely 

 pass into chrysalides. On the principle that these are the modi- 

 fied descendants of pre-existent forms that possessed the habit, 

 we are prepared to explain very much of the mysteiy which 

 envelops Acronycta and Arachnis. This acquired habit upon 

 the part of each, if permitted to bear offspring, would no doubt 

 react favorably in the line of higher development. At this point 

 a few hints upon the present natural arrangement of lepidopterous 

 life upon this planet can not be amiss. 



Among Lepidoptera the Rhopalocera constitute the highest 

 division of the suborder. The arrangement of A. S. Packard, Jr., in 

 his " Synthetic Types of Insects," seems to countenance no other 

 idea. The Heterocera embrace all that were formerly known as 

 Crepuscular and Nocturnal Lepidoptera. These terms, with that 

 of Diurnal, which were once applied to the entire suborder, though 

 strictly unnatural, subserve a good purpose. 



This arrangement harmonizes in a measure with their natural 

 sequence in time. If the highest types of life are the modified de- 

 scendants of pre-existent forms, then, from an evolutionary point 

 of view, Butterflies, which are assumed to be pre-eminent among 

 Lepidoptera, have sprung from the Bombycidse. There has un- 

 doubtedly been a gradual succession from certain Nocturnals to 

 Diurnals. 



There seems to be a tendency now-a-days upon the part of 

 naturalists to refer the entire animal creation to a primordial 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



form the Protamceba of Haeckle, from which has been reached 

 through endless ramifications the present regime. 



That our myriad forms of Butterflies have arisen from a single 

 form in a uniform direction, is an hypothesis that cannot be enter- 

 tained, in view of the array of evidence to the contrary. They 

 have certainly reached their present status by several roads ; but 

 assumed in their entirety, there can be no question about their 

 evolution from the Bombycidse. 



The Sphinges have been possibly reached from aTrichopterous 

 form through the Noctuidse and Bombycidee. Although this 

 family does appear to hold an intermediate position to Diurnals 

 and Nocturnals, and would seem to form a principal link in the 

 chain which has led to the former ; still the absence of any positive 

 testimony upon this subject effectually precludes an3 r such ar- 

 rangement. Were this the road bj T which the higher types have 

 been reached through the play of natural forces, we should expect 

 to meet some of the old landmarks, or to see in existing forms 

 some proofs thereof. 



The JEgeridse must also be traced back to a pre-existent Cad- 

 dice-fly. In their general form, in the outline and the transpa- 

 rency of their alar appendages, in their manner of flight, and the 

 time of the day when they are most active, the JEgeridae approxi- 

 mate the Bymenoptera. The genus Trochilium, of this family, re- 

 sembles in all the above particulars many of our ordinary Mem- 

 branous-winged insects. While this family undoubtedly leads for- 

 ward to the Hymenoptera, it reaches backward and claims a near 

 alliance with the Zygsenidse. 



These facts have strongly impressed my mind as to their near 

 relationship ; and the thought has been frequently suggested, may 

 not the Hymenoptera, the highest of insect life, have been reached 

 through some member of the JEgeridse. As Trochilium bears the 

 nearest approach to a Hymenopteron of any form of Lepidoptera 

 with which I am familiar, so the genus Cosmosoma of the Zygse- 

 nidse in many particulars'resembles Trochilium. From the Zygse- 

 nidse to Phryganea through the Noctuidse, retrocession is mode- 

 rately gradual. 



An examination into the provisions which lepidopterous larvae 

 make preparatory to entrance upon the chrysalis state, rather 

 countenances than opposes this theory. From the cocoon of the 

 least developed of our moths to the loop and girdle of the Papili- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 33 



onidae, etc., remarkable gradations can be established. The 

 highest perfection in the art of cocoon-manufacture is attained by 

 members of the old Linnaean genus, Attacus. Between the lowest 

 moths and the lowest type of butterflies a wide gulf intervenes. 

 This is bridged over by many small genera, which enable us to 

 reach the latter by a slightly circuitous course. Leaving out the 

 genus Attacus, there seems to be a more nearly continuous route. 

 May not certain members of this genus constitute the extreme 

 limits of one or more branches of the great tree of lepidopterous 

 life 



The small loop by which a Papilio or a Vanessa suspends itself to 

 a support, when about to pass into a pupa, and the girdle which 

 it throws around the middle of its body to prevent unlimited and 

 undue motion whereby injuries are prevented, are, it seems to me, 

 but the last traces of the cocoon with which in primitive times it 

 was wont to inclose itself. Indeed, there is a Brazilian moth of 

 the subfamily Tineina which swings itself from a twig \>y means 

 of a compound silken thread, thus imitating, though on a grander 

 scale, man}- of our Papilionidse, after which it spins a cocoon, a 

 perfect network of fibres, so loosely arranged that the chrysalis 

 may be discerned in all the distinctness of its parts. In this in- 

 stance, the sole object of the cocoon, if there can be no impro- 

 priety in recognizing it as such, is not to protect its inmate from 

 the inclemency of the weather, but to be, as it were, a domicile in 

 which the almost immobile pupa can sleep until it wakens to new- 

 ness of life. In point of utility this cocoon, judging from the 

 laxity of its formation, is but little superior to the slight silken 

 covering with which some of our earth-seekers line their cells. 

 Alucita porectella builds a somewhat similar cocoon ; but its 

 beautiful network, rivalling in beauty the mechanism of art, is 

 hidden away within curled-up leaves, or underneath them. There 

 is a very close resemblance in the cocoons of the above two spe- 

 cies. While the Brazilian larva utterly discards all extraneous 

 objects which would mar the beauty and transparency of its house, 

 Alucita porectella, for some unknown reason, selects a leaf as a 

 basis whereon to build its showy fabric, a very common occur- 

 rence. As far as my knowledge extends, these are the onty two 

 species of the family to which they belong that do not construct 

 cocoons of ordinary compactness. In Alucita, this marked loose- 

 ness is in a great measure atoned for by the leafy envelope 




31 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



referred to. Why this deviation from "what is usual in the case of 

 the Brazilian species ? The conclusion is not far-fetched. There 

 seems to be a tendency towards the abandonment of a habit which 

 has been proverbial. What the circumstances are, which are de- 

 termining this change, it is not easy to divine. In this climate 

 cocoons serve to protect their inmates, when placed in exposed 

 situations, from undue moisture. Experience has shown that they 

 are capable of enduring with impunity a high degree of cold. 

 Successive alternations of temperature from cold to warm, and 

 vice versa, are accompanied by injurious effects. In tropical 

 countries where the year is divided into two seasons, the wet and 

 the dry, it is during the latter that the larva changes and pre- 

 pares for a winged existence; consequently, the necessity for 

 cocoon-making does not exist. 



The cocoon being of little service to this Brazilian larva, other 

 than as a suitable and comfortable support, being a relic of the 

 past, will doubtless in time be abandoned. The insect will by de- 

 grees adapt itself both structurally and functionally to the new 

 conditions of its environment, and support itself by a girdle like 

 that of the Papilionidse. 



If butterflies have been evolved from moths, we should expect 

 to find some evidences of the fact, if not in the forms of existing 

 species, at least to a certain extent, in the gradations which can be 

 established between cocoon-manufacture and the almost complete 

 abandonment of the art, save in a rudimentary state, if the girdle- 

 like-support of the Papilionidse and others can be construed as 

 the traces thereof. If moths are the parents of butterflies, an ex- 

 amination into the past histoiy of our globe as contained in its 

 rock-structure, ought to afford some confirmatory evidence. We 

 should expect to meet with some traces of moths, as proofs that 

 they were the earliest lepidopterous life that inhabited this globe. 

 A review of palaeontological literature upon this subject dissi- 

 pates all suppositions to the contrary. 



In the iron-stone concretions from the Carboniferous beds of 

 Morris, Illinois, besides the remains of Neuroptera proper and 

 Pseudo-neuroptera, there have been discovered two other forms 

 of extinct articulate life. Naturalists have described one form as 

 a centipede, the other as a caterpillar of a moth; the caterpillar 

 was referred to the family of Arciians to which our woolly bears 

 belong. As to the propriety of so doing, Mr. Scudder, of Mass., 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



entered a protest. To this distinguished entomologist, they have 

 every appearance of worms. Leaving this form, therefore, as un- 

 satisfactory for our present purpose, another advance in time 

 brings us to the Jurassic period, where more reliable information 

 is awaiting us. In Europe, where the formations characterizing 

 this period are developed on a singularly grand scale, but two forms 

 of extinct Lepidoptera have been discovered to my knowledge, and 

 these are a moth pertaining to the lowest family, the Tineids, of 

 which the clothes-moth is a well-known example, and a Sphinx. 



In an uninhabited region beyond the Rocky Mountains, near 

 the union of the White and Green Rivers, Colorado, exists a de- 

 posit, probably far richer in insect remains than that of (En in gen 

 in Germany. In two localities separated by a scope of country 

 about sixtj r miles wide, called by Prof. William Denton, Chagrin 

 Valley and Fossil Canon, considerable remains have been found. 

 It is peculiarly interesting that these two regions have every indi- 

 cation of being distinct; the ants, the moth, and the thrips, near- 

 ly all the small coleoptera, and the bulk of the diptera, come from 

 Fossil Canon ; while the larva are restricted to Chagrin Valley. 



While no definite conclusion can be arrived at respecting the 

 age of the beds in which these remains are found, there can be 

 little hesitancy in assigning them to the Tertiary epoch. Profes- 

 sor Denton affirms them to be at least as old as the Miocene. As 

 far as our present knowledge extends, the great Tertiary epochs 

 rank pre-eminently above all others in their yield of fossil lepidop- 

 tera. 



In confirmation of my position that butterflies are a higher type 

 of Lepidoptera than moths, the former being the modified descend- 

 ants of the latter, through several lines of development which had, 

 during aeons of cycles, gradually almost entirely lost their cocoon 

 making propensities, Paheontology, the key which has unravelled 

 so many mysteries in biological science, lends its all-potent influ- 

 ence. 



It has been seen that the earliest of moths of which the globe 

 bears any record, belongs to the Tineids, the lowest family of Le- 

 pidoptera. This is what our theory presupposes. As the larvae 

 of these moths generally construct at the present day cocoons of 

 remarkable compactness, analogy would seem to argue a nearly 

 similar habit in their early progenitors of the dark days of the Juras- 

 sic period. If it were possible to bring the cocoons of species so 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



widely separated in time into juxtaposition, perceptible differ- 

 ences no doubt would be noticed. Allowing for variation at the 

 ordinary rate of increase, during the immensity of time that has 

 elapsed since the Jurassic tineid flourished, the contrast would 

 be astounding. While variation progresses in some species of 

 animals l>3 r the constant addition of infinitesimally small in- 

 crements, which are seen after the lapse of indefinite periods of 

 time, there are other species which have maintained their own 

 with comparatively kw and trifling changes of character, from the 

 early dawn of Silurian times down to the present moment. The 

 Terebratula of our seas, closely resembles its most distant kin. 

 Whj r maj r not the line which has terminated in our typical Tineids, 

 have been marked by a similar uniformity of structure and habits? 

 Other lines of growth may have led from these ancient Tineida 

 to our highest types of cocoon-builders, through which in course 

 of time our butterflies and sphinges were evolved. 



If, as has been previously remarked, the habit of cocoon-building 

 originated in the necessity of the times, as a means of protecting 

 the builder against undue moisture, rather than a low degree of 

 temperature, then we should expect to meet in the history of those 

 early times, some confirmatory facts which would add further 

 links to the chain of argument which has been assumed to prove 

 that the line of development has been from Nocturnal lepidoptera 

 to Diurnal. 



Respecting the climate which prevailed upon the globe when 

 the Jurassic tineid and Sphinx flourished, no facts associated 

 with the geographical distribution of species have been ascertained, 

 that uphold the idea of a diversity of zones, such as now exists. 

 The facts sustain the view that the climate of the Arctic during 

 this period was at least warm-temperate. The presence of Belem- 

 nites paxillosus and Ammonites biplex, or some closely-related 

 species, according to the authoritj' of Dana, in the Arctic, the 

 Andes of South America, and Europe, indicates a remarkable uni- 

 formity of climate over the globe. 



The character of the plants which then existed affords a cogent 

 reason for believing that a moist climate prevailed. Experience 

 has taught us that Conifers and trees allied to Yucca and Bro- 

 melia, Equiseta and Ferns, do best where the soil possesses much 

 moisture and the climate is uniform. The gigantic Conifers of 

 Western North America, and the tree-ferns of the East, attain 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



their greatest grandeur where nature abundantly waters the lap of 

 earth* Such being a true statement of facts, as at present existing, 

 what must have been the condition of the earth and atmosphere 

 in those early days to which we have previously referred, to have 

 given rise to such profuse and rank vegetation ? The atmosphere 

 must have been deeply surcharged with aqueous vapor, which was 

 frequently condensed into rain and precipitated in torrents upon 

 the earth. 



The Tineina are the smallest of the small among the Lepidop- 

 tera, and, perhaps, the most eccentric in their habits of life. The 

 larvae also vary in their habits: some feed in the open air; others 

 in rolled-up leaves ; others are miners, some case-bearers, and 

 some feed upon clothes or the lining of upholstered articles. 

 There can be no doubt that the situations in which the larvae are 

 found are w r ell adapted to conceal such tender creatures from the 

 rapacity of vigilant foes. The cases which these larvae construct 

 with so much taste and skill, after having sheltered their fragile 

 forms during the period of feeding, serve by slight additional im- 

 provements to become fit dwelling places for pupae while preparing 

 for winged existence, by affording comfortable shelter from in- 

 clement weather. 



Whether there existed forms closely allied in habits to Tinea 

 tapetzella, T. pellionella, and T. crinella, that feed upon carpet, 

 feathers, furs, and skin, at present, palaeontology must bear answer. 

 It is evident that the majority of the species that flourished during 

 past ages were vegetarians, and plied their gastronomic art within 

 some sheltering leaf or case. During this epoch there flourished 

 various genera of Ferns, Cycads, Conifers, and several species of 

 Equisetum, materially dissimilar to any existing forms. 



If there were Tineids that subsisted upon feathers, and such 

 like, as at present, they were conspicuously few in number and 

 confined to restricted areas. The Portland dirt-bed has yielded 

 relics of fourteen species of mammals that have been referred 

 mostly to the marsupials, and but one or two to the non-marsupial 

 Inseclivora. These mammals were associated with remains of 

 insect life. These facts encourage the idea of a possibility of hair- 

 eating Tineids. 



This period, being preeminently one of reptiles, when the gigantic 

 Sawrians lived and delighted in their carnivorous exploits, could 

 scarcely have witnessed any remarkable development of moths. 




38 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Vegetation of a particular character being very prolific then, there 

 is ground for believing that an excess of Tineids of herbivorous 

 habits would have been better adapted to the existing condition 

 of things. 



As living Tineids, so far as I am conversant with their history, 

 only attack woollen stuffs, furs, feathers, etc., when stripped from 

 their rightful proprietors, and not when constituting their living 

 vesture, analogy would expect a similar exhibition of character 

 upon the part of their remote progenitors. The fur of dead ani- 

 mals is, however, utilized while also remaining intact. 



Many of our living larval Tineids construct cases into which the}' 

 retire and which they bear with them from place to place, when they 

 do not otherwise tunnel the leaves of their favorite food-plants. 

 There can be no impropriety in presuming the existence of similar 

 habits upon the part of their distant ancestors. The warm tem- 

 perate climate which prevailed during the Jurassic epoch, with its 

 excessive moisture and humid atmosphere, offers a weight}' argu- 

 ment in favor of cocoon, or rather case-builders. 



Lepidoptera, as a rule, are exceedingly delicate and fragile 

 beings, very liable when life is extinct to speedy decomposition. 

 Therefore, it is not to be wondered at that their remains are not 

 found in greater abundance. When we reflect that there have been 

 many alterations of level since the day when the Jurassic fauna 

 flourished, it is highly probable that many forms have irrecoverably 

 perished. But when the rock-structure of the globe is better 

 known, new forms may come to light, which will doubtless help to 

 fill up existing gaps in the chain of historical sequence. 



The presence of a Spihinx with moths that occupy so low a posi- 

 tion in the order as Tineids, is a remarkable coincidence, and would 

 seem to require a different explanation, in view of the then existing 

 aspect of affairs, than the one which I have endeavored to establish. 

 If future explorations and discoveries should fail to reveal the ex- 

 istence of lepidopterous life further back in time, or the existence 

 of intermediate forms to the Tineids and Sphinges, it is almost 

 impossible to resist the conclusion that these forms originated al- 

 most synchronously from some lower forms of articulate existence; 

 in other language, that they are branches from a common scion or 

 stock. It seems to be more in harmony with known facts to con- 

 sider the Sphinges to have been the modified descendants of some 

 pre-existent Bombycid, the latter of a Noctuid, etc., and to await 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



the further developments of palseontological science in confirma- 

 tion of this position. 



As previously remarked, there has been found in the Carboniferous 

 strata of Morris, Illinois, a larva that has been referred to the 

 Arctians or woolly-bears. Granting the truth of this identification 

 for the sake of argument, the period of time that has elapsed since 

 the Carboniferous arctian flourished, down to the ushering into 

 existence of the Jurassic sphinx, has been ample, no doubt, for the 

 gradual evolution of an Arctian into a Sphinx through inter- 

 mediate forms. The fact that Tineids are not found in Carbon- 

 iferous strata is no argument for their non-existence. If the 

 Tineids of those early days had many points in common with ex- 

 isting types, it is only under the most favorable conditions that 

 parts of them could be preserved. 



That these conditions did not exist during the Triassic period, 

 is inferred from our knowledge of the disturbances which took 

 place in America, and the shallow basins both of fresh and salt 

 water that existed in foreign localities where this formation is de- 

 veloped. Evidences of disturbance occur in this country in the 

 tilted and displaced condition of the beds constituting the forma- 

 tion. This tilting is, doubtless, due to mechanical force, very 

 gradual in its action. Still further evidence exists in the profound 

 subsidence which has been shown to have been in progress in 

 regions of depression, occupied by the strata. Such a subsidence 

 would obviously have brought a strain upon superincumbent beds, 

 and sooner or later would have produced fractures and disarrange- 

 ment. The injection of igneous rocks which have intersected sand- 

 stone strata, affords still another proof. In our Triassic regions, 

 rocks of igneous origin are intimately connected with rocks of 

 aqueous origin. Throughout most of the European sandstones 

 and marls of this period, the occurrence of ripple-marks, rain-drop 

 impressions, and cracks from drying, plainly show that the strata 

 are of shallow-water and mud-flat origin; and the salt which has 

 been found and referred thereto, points to the existence of flats that 

 were exposed to occasional inundations of the sea, where the salt 

 water underwent evaporation. 



It is evident that in America where the greater disturbance of 

 the strata has occurred, as indicated above, such light and airy 

 creatures as moths would stand but a slim chance of leaving the 

 slightest vestiges of their remains imbedded. The tilting and 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



subsidence alluded to, combined with the metamorphic character 

 imposed upon many strata by the injection of trap in a state of 

 igneous fluidity, if lepidopterous life then existed, have either com- 

 pletely removed it from our reach, or obliterated every trace of 

 remains once preserved. 



In Europe, when we take into consideration the areas in which 

 these beds were deposited, we are not surprised at the absence of 

 traces of lepidopterous life. Being shallow basins of fresh water, 

 with mud-flat margins, and occasional flats submerged b}' inun- 

 dations of salt water, we should not expect to meet with lepidop- 

 terous life. It is onty in such localities that we should look for 

 the remains of neuropterous insects. It is a remarkable fact that 

 the only fossil insect thus far observed is the larva (or exuviae of 

 the larva) of a neuropter, related to the genus Ephemera, which 

 was found in the shales at Turner's Falls, on the Connecticut 

 River, and described by Prof. Hitchcock. The impressions of the 

 feet of insects found in the sandstones of the Connecticut River 

 valley, were undoubtedly of neuropterous and crustaceous char- 

 acter. 



Unless the advent of the Tineids dates further back in time than 

 the Jurassic, allowing the family to be the lowest of the Heterocera, 

 we have the simultaneous origin of insects as low in the scale of 

 creation as these, with others, the Sphinges, which mark a pre- 

 eminently higher type of development, unless it can be shown, 

 which is exceedingly uncertain, that the former claim priority of 

 birth, and constitute the immediate and proximate ancestry of the 

 latter. The chapters of the Stone Book of Nature, so far as the}* 

 are perusable, do not reveal any such history. The intermediate 

 links by which the chain of existence from Tineids passes into 

 Sphinges, are missing, and doubtless will never be restored. If 

 Tineids have passed directly into the Sphinges, would not, unless 

 our present t3'pes are the degenerated forms of pre-existent ones, 

 some unmistakable evidences be found in studying the earl} r stages 

 of modern species? Instances could be multiplied beyond limit 

 of the special roads which nature has pursued in reaching particu- 

 lar forms, from others that occupy an inferior position. 



The simplest forms of life of which we have any conception, are 

 the Monera, which may be defined as living jelly, formless and 

 structureless. They move along by a sort of gliding motion, which 

 is produced by a protrusion and retraction of portions of their sub- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



stance. Their reproduction is exceedingly simple, being a splitting 

 of their body into halves, each half developing into a new Monas. 



The absence of a nucleus characterizes the chief point of distinc- 

 tion between these and the Amoebse. A Sponge may be con- 

 sidered as a colony of Amcebse; the individual members of which 

 are united by a common bond of union ; this view is suggested 

 by the young of the Sponges, which cannot be distinguished from 

 Amcebee. The development of flagella and cilia, as in Euglena, has 

 led the way to the Animalcula or Infusoria. Nor need we confine 

 our attention to these simple forms of animal life. 



As we ascend the scale, we meet with equally forcible illustra- 

 tions. Prof. Cope, in his " Origin of Genera," in writing about 

 the higher Cervidse, affirms that " Rusa and Axis never assume 

 characters be} r ond an equivalent of the fourth year of Cervus. In 

 Dama the characters are, on the other hand, assumed more rapidly 

 than in Cervus, its third year corresponding to the fourth of the 

 latter, and the development in after years of a broad plate of bone 

 with points being substituted for the addition of the corresponding 

 snags, thus commencing another series." 



In the Cephalopoda a number of series of remarkable regularity 

 can be established. The advance in the first place being in the 

 complicated arrangement of the plicae of the external borders of 

 the septa ; in the second place, in the approach which one or both 

 extremities of the shell make to the spiral ; and, lastly, in the posi- 

 tion of the siphon. Alpheus H} r att, in an interesting and import- 

 ant essay upon this topic, makes the assertion that the less complex 

 forms are identical with the undeveloped condition of the more 

 complex. His language is, "There is a direct connection between 

 the position of a shell in the completed cycle of the life of this 

 order, and its own development. These shells occupying the 

 extremes of the cycle, the polar forms, being more embryonic than 

 the intermediate forms." 



Such evidence as has just been adduced of the gradual modifi- 

 cation of living species, some of the separate links of the chain 

 which bind the less with the more highly specialized, being ob- 

 servable in the history of development of individual species, is of 

 the most positive and satisfactory character. Can we bring for- 

 ward similar evidence in confirmation of the position that the 

 Sphinges are directly descended from the Tineidsf I apprehend 

 not. Whence the simultaneous occurrence of these two forms in 

 4 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



the same formation? Is it an argument in favor of the descent 

 of the former from the latter? As an answer to this query, two 

 theories suggest themselves ; either to consider the Tineids to 

 have come into existence long anterior to the Carboniferous arc- 

 tian, and to have been the remote progenitor of the latter, as it 

 has doubtless been of the Sphinges; or to consider the Sphinges 

 as a highty specialized form of Pseudo-neuroptera with Bombycid 

 and Noctuid-like characters. 



In some of our modern classifications of insects, the Caddice 

 worms, which are comprehended in the genus Phryganea are re- 

 puted as belonging to the order Neuroptera. According to West- 

 wood, however, this genus constitutes the connecting link be- 

 tween the Neuroptera and Lepidoptera. Since the Caddice worms 

 present many marks of resemblance to the Neuroptera, while in 

 others they approach the Lepidoptera, they are considered by the 

 above-named eminent authority as constituting a distinct order 

 called Trichoptera. 



In their larval condition, these Trichopterous insects are not 

 altogether dissimilar to caterpillars in configuration, and construct 

 for themselves cylindrical cases or tubes, made up of sand, small 

 pebbles, fragments of sticks, leaves, or even shells. When fully 

 grown, the larva secures its case to a stone, the stem of a plant, 

 or some other fixed material, and closes somewhat the two ends 

 with an open grating of silken threads, so as to admit the ready 

 access of water, and keep out intruders. Within this covering the 

 pupa condition is assumed. It bears a very close resemblance to 

 the perfect insect, except that the palpi, wings, antenna?, and legs 

 are shorter and inclosed in distinct sheaths and disposed upon the 

 breast. The pupa is not so perfectly quiescent as the pupae of 

 Lepidoptera, since as it approaches maturity it comes to the sur- 

 face, and in a few instances makes its way out of the water. It is 

 obvious that in the points of character thus briefly detailed, there 

 is a close relationship to the early history of Lepidoptera. But 

 the larvae being aquatic, which is the case with very few Lepidop- 

 tera, and the pupae being capable of locomotion near the time of 

 emergence from the tube, on the other hand ally them to Neurop- 

 tera. 



Besides a resemblance in habits to the case-bearing larvae of the 

 genera Psyche and Tinea, a still further affinity has been noticed; 

 the analogous covering of the alar appendages in the Phryganidse 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



and some Papilios, and the analogously spiniferous tibiae in the 

 two groups. DeGeer deduced this affinity from the analogous 

 configuration of the wings, and from the internal conformation of 

 the larva?; Kirby from resemblances in the buccal apparatus, and 

 Reaumur from general considerations upon insect analogies. 



The Phryganidse are an intermediate group to the Neuroptera 

 and Lepidoptera, as the most satisfactory evidence, backed up by 

 the well-balanced judgments of competent authorities, so amply 

 and ably testifies. The Ephemerids, though a somewhat distant 

 kin of the Phryganidee., in the Triassic Bphemeron referred to 

 above, is it not a plausible hypothesis that we have the progenitor, 

 though very remotely, of the Jurassic sphinx? Future dis- 

 coveries may reveal to us, when these formations are more tho- 

 roughly known, the intermediate links by which the Sphinges 

 were reached from an Ephemerid-like neuropter, through a Tri- 

 chopterous form allied to our present Caddice flies, thence through 

 certain extinct species of Noctuidee and Bombycidse, doubtless 

 having characters which relate them somewhat intimately to ex. 

 isting types. That the passage of the Sphinges proper has not 

 been through the Zygsenidse, amounts to a conviction in my mind. 

 There are reasons of a morphological character, and others that 

 favor such a pre-conception. Among existing Bombycids there 

 are forms that resemble, both in the larval and imago states, our 

 Sphinges proper, Notodonta Galifornica, Stretch, is a good illus- 

 tration. The larvae, in general form, and in having a horn upon 

 its anal segment, according to Dr. Behr, would be taken as a 

 Sphinx, and doubtless would be described as such in the absence 

 of an}' knowledge concerning its early stages. The imago pre. 

 sents, in the general contour of the body, in the attenuated form 

 of the anterior wings, in being decidedly chalinopterous, and in the 

 characteristic shape of the posterior alar appendages, a very close 

 alliance to some Sphinges with which I am familiar. I do not 

 assert the belief that this species is identical in the aggregate of 

 its characters with the Bombycid, from which the Jurassic Sphinx 

 sprang, but that it can be taken as a fair sample of the proximate 

 ancestor of the latter. 



As before remarked, there is some resemblance upon the part of 

 Phryganea to the genus Psyche among moths, and the Papilios 

 among butterflies ; from which it might be argued that the Bom- 

 bycids, if they have come from the Phryganese, must have ])assed 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



through the Psychidae. But the slight similarity of the Caddice 

 flies, instance Neuronia fasciata, Say, to the Papilios the highest 

 type of Diurnals and a similar resemblance of Neuronia to cer- 

 tain existing Bombycids and Noctuids, seem to bring Phryganea 

 more closely to the Bombycidae. The resemblance of Phryganea in 

 habits to Psyche and Tinea, would, in face of previous evidence, 

 rank these forms as branches thereof. 



In a careful examination of our ordinary Neuronia fasciata, 

 Say, I find that the anterior wings, in their general contour and 

 venation, resemble the typical Neuropters ; while the posterior*, in 

 the same important characters, bear a decided approach to some 

 of our Zygaenidse. In general form there is some resemblance, 

 fancied or otherwise, to Hopffer's Gnophcela ; but a more decided 

 likeness to some existing forms of the genus Ctenucha is found to 

 exist. The contour of the first pair of alar appendages in the 

 genus Ctenucha is not essentially dissimilar to those of Neuronia, 

 although the variation may be slightly different. In Neuronia, 

 the external margins of the posterior wings, midway between the 

 apical margins and the commencement of the line of descent to 

 the abdomen, display a slight curvature inwardly, producing a 

 peculiar conformation. By examination of figured specimens of 

 Ctenucha, brunnea and ochroscapus more particularly, unmistak- 

 able evidences of these curves are found to exist. From Zygsenidse, 

 like these, together with Cosmosoma omphale, Hubner, it would 

 seem to require but little effort upon the part of "natural selection" 

 to reach from certain Caddice flies, through intermediate forms, 

 living or extinct, the JEgeridee. In this train of argument, I have 

 assumed the JEgeridee, from which the Hymenoptera have sprung, 

 to have descended from some form of Phryganea, through the 

 Zygaenidse and others, and to represent the terminus of one branch 

 of the wide spreading tree of Lepidopterous life ; and the Sphin- 

 gidse, through the Bombycidae, Noctuidae, and Phryganea, another. 

 That the Sphinges have descended from a Phryganea with 

 Bombycid-\ike characters is entertained for several important 

 reasons. The absence of intermediate t} r pes to the Tineids and 

 Sphinges in the rock-structure of the globe, as far as I have 

 been permitted to read it ; the great abundance of Neuropterous 

 life that inhabited the globe during the period when the Triassic 

 and Jurassic faunae flourished, from forms resembling our May 

 flies to the highest type of the order; the very close resemblances 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



which subsist between certain existing Lepidoptera and Trichop- 

 tera, both internal and external, in their three stages of existence 

 as larvae, pupae, and imagos ; and, lastly, their remarkable simi- 

 larity of habits. 



In commenting upon the first consideration, it strikes me as 

 peculiarly novel and remarkable, that such delicate creatures as 

 Tineids should be preserved in association with Sphinges, there 

 not being the remotest affinities between them, while the interme- 

 diate types, if there are any, which palaeontology alone must de- 

 cide in the future, should have left not even the slightest evidence 

 of their existence. 



A few thoughts having reference to the second consideration, 

 lead to more important results. The great abundance of Neurop- 

 terous life, both high and low, that existed during the Triassic 

 and Jurassic epochs, backed up by the third consideration which 

 shows that notable affinities exist between certain forms of Lepi- 

 doptera and Phryganea, seems to argue strongly in favor of the 

 theory that the Jurassic sphinx was the remote modified descend- 

 ant of some pre-existent Caddice fly, which latter was the offspring 

 of some formerty-existing Neuropter. 



The Tineids of to-day are, as a general rule, but diminutive 

 specimens of lepidopterous life, notable alike for their inconspicu- 

 ousness and insignificance. Rarely if ever attaining any remarka- 

 ble development of size, they, doubtless, have retained much of their 

 primitive character. Like some forms of Terebratula, as before 

 remarked, they have maintained the even tenor of their lives 

 doubtless for ages. Natural selection has had little play in the 

 line of variation in this family. It has been affirmed that the 

 Caddice worms construct cases like the larvae of Psyche and 

 Tinea, which they line with silk. Fi'om this it is argued that 

 Psyche and Tinea have been evolved from some form of Phryga- 

 nea, and that the Sphinges have come through the former. But 

 this does not necessarily follow. May not the Phryganidse have 

 been the common stock of both Tineids and Sphinges, the latter 

 being a more highly specialized type, from having been reached 

 through greater and more persistent modifications ? Perhaps there 

 were existing in those remote ages many forms of Phryganidse 

 differing greatly in size, but still retaining similarity of habits. 

 Granting this, for the sake of argument, there can be no impro- 

 priety in considering the Tineids to have been the immediate de- 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



scendants of some low form of Caddice fly, and to have Ions since 

 reached the limit of their capacity for further modification. The}' 

 would thus constitute the summits of several small branches of 

 the Phryganeid root from which the Psychidse and Tortricina were 

 derived. 



Although it is possible, as previously remarked, to trace with 

 considerable success the gradual abandonment of cocoon manu- 

 facture, from rather low moths, where it exists in wonderful per- 

 fection, to its rudimentary condition in Diurnals, and even to show 

 certain stages which appear to have led to the cell-making of the 

 Sphingidae ; yet in the absence of further evidence of a different 

 chai'acter, in the face of previously-cited facts, it would not be 

 advisable. 



It is well known that among the Bombycidse there are existing 

 forms that resemble in some points of character the butterflies. 

 In color, bodily form, and in being, to a certain extent, lovers of 

 sunshine, Utethe'isa bella, Linn., approaches the butterflies. 



Among the Zygsenidae similar relations are known to exist, as 

 instanced by Alypia Brannani, Stretch. Other examples might 

 be given, but time will not permit the merest mention of them. 



The larva of Alypia enters the ground where it constructs an 

 earthen cocoon, and lines it internally with a varnish-like secretion 

 before assuming the pupa condition. In this particular it imitates 

 certain moths. 



The early histoiy of the genus Utetheisa is partially involved 

 in obscurity. It is impossible to say where the pupa state is 

 assumed. It seems in harmony with facts to consider butterflies 

 to have descended from some species of Bombycid, whose larva 

 possessed a comparatively smooth exterior and was a moderate 

 spinner of silk the support and girdle of the Papilionidee anil 

 others being the remaining traces of the cocoon by which their 

 remote progenitor was accustomed to envelop itself. The larva 

 of Utetheisa bella, Hiibn., has been found in the pods of Crote- 

 laria, from which it is inferred that it is an internal feeder. It is 

 yellow, with black and white rings. In markings and in its com- 

 paratively smooth integument it resembles some of the Papilios. 

 If it should be shown in the future that it spins a slight cocoon, 

 this fact would lend material aid to the views herein set forth. 



The larva of Phryganidia Calif 'ornica, with its naked skin and 

 uninclosed and pendent pupa, reminds me of many Rhopalocera 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



and some Geometree. It has been classed with the Psychidse by 

 Packard, and, owing to its near alliance to Heterogynnis, which 

 is removed by many European writers to the Zygaenidse, it has 

 been placed by Stretch in that group. One of the latter's reasons 

 for this removal is the resemblance which its larva holds to that 

 of Eudryas. But its habit of carrying the last segment elevated 

 in the air, which shows a certain affinity to some Nofodontas as 

 well as to Gerxira and Platypteryx, and of suspending itself by the 

 tail like the Geometrse, combined with the close resemblance which 

 the wings bear to some butterflies, renders it an interesting form. 

 The facts for the origin of butterflies herein embodied in connec- 

 tion with the above, aim to place it high up in Bombycidse. 



It has been suggested that the Sphinges are the remotely modified 

 descendants of a pre-existent Phryganea. It is well known that 

 the larva of the latter constructs a case into which it retires after 

 feeding. As this case with its inmate remains in its watery ele- 

 ment until the imago state is near at hand, if the argument previ- 

 ously advanced to prove the remote origin of the Sphingidse 

 through intermediate forms, from a Phryganea allied to existing 

 types, amounts to aught, we have in it a clue to the habit which 

 many of our Zygeenidse and Sphingidse possess of entering the 

 earth in assuming the chrysalis stage. The JEgeridse in their 

 larval stage bore into the stem of plants, and when ready to 

 pass into pupa?, construct oblong follicles, composed of small 

 fragments of barks and earth closely united together by the silk 

 of the animal. This style of cover is not essentially different from 

 that of the Sphinges and the Glaucopidians. As the ravages of 

 these insects are confined to the inner parts of plants, it is not 

 unreasonable to suppose that when the time for change arrives, it 

 will be undergone where there is least trouble and least outhoy of 

 strength, in the burrows created. The Zygeenidse, as a rule, sub- 

 sist upon the outer parts of plants On the supposition that some 

 pre-existing individual of this family had profited by a change 

 from outer to inner, it would be a comparatively easy matter to 

 trace the effects which a change of environment would impress 

 upon said individual. We might expect considerable alterations 

 in larval color, form, and structure, with but a trifling change in 

 cell-manufacture. 



In the condition of larvae the Trichoptera are vegetarians; but 

 will occasionally attack minute fresh-water animals when driven 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



to it by necessity. As vegetable feeders they resemble caterpillars. 

 Suppose the stream in which some early caterpillars of caddice- 

 like habits and forms were residents, had become dried up, or 

 directed from its bed in such a manner as not to effect the removal 

 of the worms, and still leave the bed humid, there is no doubt that 

 those worms which possessed some advantage above their fellows, 

 better suited to the altered condition of affairs, would be preserved 

 and leave progeny. These would gradually, as time progressed, 

 become better adapted to their condition, giving rise to a higher 

 type of existence. A change in the specific gravity of their 

 environment would necessarily have the tendency, as an obviation 

 of the inconvenience thereby engendered, of producing changes 

 of habit on the assumption of pupation. This hypothetical case 

 would seemingly account for the habitudes of the Glaucopidians 

 and the Sphinges. 



Another explanation suggestive of the same idea presents'itself 

 for consideration. A scarcity of food might induce larva? well- 

 circumstanced in the " struggle for existence," to forsake their 

 habitual haunt, the watery element, for the land, as a preventive 

 to starvation. If slightly adapted to endure the change of habitat, 

 the effects of direct atmospheric influence associated with dietetic 

 causes, might so disturb their equipoise as to lead to a better ad- 

 justment of inner to outer actions, and thus be determinative of 

 the same results. 



While some of these larva?, in order to harmonize inner with 

 outer actions, or to restore as nearly as possible former modes of 

 living, on the attainment of pupa? may have passed into the 

 ground, others, doubtless, reached the same end by boring into 

 the stems of succulent plants, with or without a medulla, for cover 

 and protection, as well as for food ; some again, as if reluctant to 

 forsake their cases, the scenes of so many pleasures and adven- 

 tures in the past, carried their cases with them as many of our 

 Psychidae and Tineidse still do, until metamorphoses ensued ; 

 others again ceased gradually to encumber themselves therewith 

 during their larval existence, nature having provided them with 

 suitable protective appliances in the form of irritating hairs, 

 dangerous-looking, though perfectly harmless spines; offensive 

 fluids with equally offensive odors, and disgusting carneous quali- 

 ties ; to be only reassumed on the assumption of the chrysalis state, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



as suitable protections against inclement weather during this 

 critical period of radical changes. 



If the views embodied in the last paragraph have any semblance 

 of reality, we should expect to meet with, in the habits of existing 

 species, confirmatory proofs. Among the Hydrocampidse, Para- 

 ponyx closely resembles in larval form and habits the Phryganese. 

 Its larva is possessed of large branchiae, besides spiracles, and its 

 pupa is found in a cocoon amongst leaves under water. There is 

 another species quite common in France, which subsists upon a 

 species of pond weed. In the caterpillar state it cuts two pieces 

 of leaf and fashions them so as to become nearly oval in shape 

 and equal in size. These are joined by their margins by means of 

 a little silk, the larva taking special care to leave an opening for 

 the head and the first segments of the body. It drags this house 

 under water, occasionally destroying it for a more substantial 

 domicile. When it is ready to assume the chrysalis state, it at- 

 taches its leafy house securely to plants or stones in the immediate 

 vicinity. The China Mark's caterpillar lives underneath the 

 leaves of a species of Lemma in the water, and protects itself in 

 a cylindrical case of silk covered with leaves, in which it subse- 

 quently becomes metamorphosed into a chrysalis. Here, it is evi- 

 dent, is the starting point for the development of the higher moths. 

 It is not to be presumed that the Hydrocampidae are the immedi- 

 ate descendants of the Phryganese. There may be other forms 

 somewhat lower, of whose existence we have no knowledge. In 

 the accompanying tree I have preferred to represent these forms 

 under the name of ideal Paraponyx, and to consider them as the 

 immediate progenitors of those whose life-history I have partially 

 described. 



The pupa of Eudryas unio, Riley, has been found in winter in 

 the stems of a species of Hibiscus, as though the larva had been 

 feeding in that location. Psychomorpha epimenis, Clem., fre- 

 quently perforates a piece of old wood and changes into a chrysalis 

 therein. Its habit of boring into some substances to prepare for 

 the change is inveterate, and it always neatly covers up the ori- 

 fice so that it is difficult to detect. Other instances might be cited. 

 The species just cited belong to the Zygsenidse from which it has 

 been assumed the JEgeridee were evolved. There is a manifest 

 resemblance to the latter, with the important difference that the 

 larvae of the JEgeridse pass through their early stages in the steins 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



of plants, and never forsake them until fitted for winged existence; 

 while the Zygsenidse pass therein when about to change into 

 chrysalides. There may be instances where the entire suite of 

 changes is affected in such retreats. It is well known that many 

 of the caterpillars of the genus Gracillaria among the Tineids, and 

 the genus (Enectra among the Tortricidse, possess similar boring 

 propensities. Higher up on the scale of lepidopterous life the genus 

 Nonagria of the family Leucanidse imitate still more closely the 

 habits of the Zygaenidse and JEgeridse, in feeding in the stems of 

 reeds and grasses. There may be cited instances among the 

 fiombycinse, as the Hepdlidse. Our own Cossns robin ae, Peck, is 

 a happy illustration. The existence of a similar habit among this 

 latter famity, to that which the Leucanidse, Zygaenidas, and JEge- 

 ridae possess, does not argue in favor of the view that it constitutes 

 a link in the chain which has led from the Noetuidae to jEgeridse. 

 It shows that this family constitutes a small branch from the 

 Noetuidae. 



The presence of this habit among such low forms as the Tortri- 

 cidse and Tineidae embrace, which have deviated but slightly from 

 primitive habits, would seem to argue for analogous habits among 

 some unknown individuals of the Hydrocampidse. When these 

 forms in their larval condition are made the subjects of special inves- 

 tigation by naturalists, and new tj< pes or new individuals of existing 

 types are brought to light, it may be the good fortune of science 

 to record types which, instead of constructing cases like those 

 quoted above, derive the same essential benefits by boring into 

 the stems of submerged plants, or into the veins or parenchyma of 

 their leaves, like the members of the Tineid genus Lithocolletis 

 which mine the leaves of various plant-species from their under 

 surface and eat their cellular structures. These beings, it is true, 

 must necessarily be very diminutive in size. 



Those which have denied themselves such comfortable and pro- 

 tective dwellings as are afforded by cases and tunnels, in con- 

 sideration of the various defensive appliances with which nature 

 has endowed them, are very numerous. So familiar are these, 

 even to the most casual observer, that it does not behoove me to 

 give the barest recital of a single example. Indeed there are cases 

 where these external tegumental^ weapons, by themselves, do not 

 conserve to individual safety ; and their unfortunate possessors 

 are constrained to construct immense webs which afford com- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



mon tenements for hundreds of individuals of particular species. 

 This is the case with our common American Fruit Caterpillar, 

 Clisiocampa Americana. 



It has been said that the Caddice worms construct cases in which 

 they reside, and which they close by means of threads at the ends 

 when about to pupate, so as to admit the water through their in- 

 terstices, and keep out enemies. It is obvious that water does 

 not injure the pupa?. Nature, like a faithful nurse, carefully pro- 

 tects the interests of every one of her countless progeny by making 

 its inner life correspond with outer actions. On the ground that 

 water is beneficial to the pupa of a Phryganea, we have an expla- 

 nation of the comparative openness of its cocoon at the ends. 



It was further remarked that Paraponyxin the larval condition 

 was endowed with both branchiae and spiracles. This seems to 

 be a very wise provision of nature. The branchiae enable the in- 

 sect to breathe like fishes, when immersed in a watery element. 

 May it not be that the spiracles are quiescent, and only come into 

 possession of their legitimate function when the chiysalis state 

 has been assumed, and the animal is inclosed in a cocoon which 

 is perfectly tight ? As the chrysalis while in this stage respires 

 but feebly and imperceptibly, there is in this home of its con- 

 struction, an ample capacity of air for the accommodation of its 

 wants. 



It is affirmed that Lepidosiren, in addition to lungs, possesses 

 both internal and external gills ; the latter being in a rudimentary 

 condition in the adult form. The rivers of South America and of 

 the east and west shores of Africa, where this animal exists, during 

 drouth are dried up. Did it breathe entirely by means of gills, 

 it would be in danger of extinction during the dry season ; but 

 being endowed with lungs also, it is enabled to meet the con- 

 tingency, and thus survive. Should the streams in which num- 

 bers of Paraponyx larvae reside, during a season of drouth become 

 entirely dried up, the sudden and doubly renewed efforts of these 

 animals, in their " struggle for existence," would doubtless so 

 operate upon the spiracles and trachea as to necessarily lead to 

 their perfect development and functional activity. It is a familiar 

 occurrence that the wings of moths, butterflies, etc., when first 

 they leave the chrysalis cover, are short, sac-like, bodies ; but by 

 their energetic movements speedily develop into their character- 

 istic forms. This is accounted for in the following manner: 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



These wings are pervaded b} r numerous minute divisions of the 

 trachea, which, by the violent motions of the wings, are sup- 

 plied with a superabundance of air, the necessary consequence of 

 redoubled vigor. The continual pressure of fresh accessions of 

 air upon what already exists in the above vessels, exerts an ex- 

 pansive influence upon the wings, which ultimately assume con- 

 figuration. Such being a faithful statement of facts as we find 

 them, there can be no hesitancy in assuming that a change of con- 

 ditions as above indicated, in the animal's violent struggles for 

 existence, would so react upon its hitherto quiescent spiracles as 

 to conduce to their functional activity. Like the adult Lepidosiren, 

 there may 3'et be discovered some unknown Paraponyx which 

 possesses these gills only during its early larval history. The 

 presence of gills and spiracles in the known specimen, argues in 

 favor of its derivation from a type that possessed gills alone. If 

 these spiracles are quiescent, and only become active in a measure 

 during the period of pupation, as has been presumed, the passage 

 into forms that possess this gill-breathing power during their 

 early larval period, and thence into others that have completely 

 renounced it, is exceedingly gradual. Some of these Eydrocam- 

 pidse, it is affirmed by Duncan in his " Transformations of In- 

 sects," have branchiae or gills, and exist surrounded and bathed 

 by water. This fact conducts to the inference that they are 

 wholly gill-breathers. From a Paraponyx possessed of both gills 

 and spiracles to the Phryganea, is but a moderate transition. 

 However, it is not presumed that said Paraponyx has been imme- 

 diately derived from a Phryganea, neither is it predicated that 

 the complete gill-bearing form has been the proximate descendant 

 of a Phryganea. But so closely do the larvae of Paraponyx in 

 form and habits resemble existing Caddice worms, that the con- 

 clusion based upon their near relationship, seems irresistible. 

 Ma3 T not the branchia-bearing form of Paraponyx have been the 

 immediate descendant of some pre-existent form of similar habits, 

 but of closer resemblance to Phryganea, in details of form and 

 structure, in a state of maturit} 7 ? Acting upon this consideration, 

 I have presumed their derivation from a form at present unknown, 

 which I have previously designated the ideal type. 



Having somewhat lengthily detailed the truths which have led 

 to the views expressed in this paper, it becomes me to put them 

 to a proper test. With a view to give tone and character thereto, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



the idea of constructing a tree of life, based upon the habits of 

 the Heterocera during their larval history, suggested itself to my 

 mind. After many hours of toil I have been enabled to construct 

 a tree which will, I hope, bear the scrutiny of investigation and 

 come out unscathed, since it harmonizes in the arrangement of its 

 parts with the most thorough system of classification. 




54 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ca 



60 



o. 

 o 









J3 

 P. 



u 



o 

 ft. 



2 

 '3 



8 



a. 



ft. 



o 

 To 



a 

 .a 



o 



a. 



S 



g 



CD 



oS 



J3 

 P. 



C5 



fc 



ft, 



E * - 



o a 



P. o 

 C3 O 



ft.u 





P. 



ft. 



ft. 



3 





c 



.S 

 P. 



ft* 

 O 



a 



o 



a r~& 



J3 






NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



NOTES ON THE NOCTUIDiE, WITH DESCRIPTIONS OF CERTAIN NEW 



SPECIES. 



BY H. K. MORRISON, CAMBRIDGE, MASS. 



Charadra decora, nov. sp. 



Expanse 57 mm. Length of body 23 mm. 



Eyes hairy. Antennae simple, black. Abdomen j-ellowish. 

 Anterior wings white, with the usual markings black, wavy, and 

 distinct ; the ordinary lines are marked on the costa by heavy 

 oblique black dashes ; half-line present ; interior line strongly 

 lobed ; the orbicular spot black, figure-eight shaped, very con- 

 spicuous ; median shade present ; the reniform spot large, irregu- 

 lar, open above and below; the exterior and subterminal lines are 

 drawn close together, forming wavy, irregular bands across the 

 wings; at the costa and internal angle the subterminal line forms 

 large black blotches ; a series of short terminal black lines on the 

 nervules ; fringe white, chequered with black. Posterior wings 

 pure white, with a single heavy oblique black dash at the anal 

 angle. Beneath white. 



Hub. California. 



This large and beautiful species is closely allied to our three 

 smaller Eastern ones. 



The white ground color, the peculiarly shaped orbicular spot, 

 and the black mark at the anal angle of the posterior wings will 

 serve to identify it. 



Agrotis badicollis, Grote. 



Ammoconia badicollis, Grote. Bull. Buff. Soc. Nat. Sci., vol. i. p. 136. 

 PL 4, fig. 18 (1873). 



We do not think Mr. Grote's reference of this species to Ammoco- 

 nia, Led., can be followed ; the t} r pe of that genus, the European A. 

 caecimacula, W. V., is a large, heavy-bodied insect, having a broad 

 massive front, pyramidal-toothed antennae, and long hairy lashes 

 to the eyes; the species in question has none of these characters, 

 it agrees with the species of Agrotis having pectinate antennae, 

 and is intimately related to the following new species. 



Agrotis dilucida, nov. sp. 



Expanse 38 mm. Length of body 18 mm. 



% 9. Eyes naked. The antennae of the male strongly bipecti- 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



nate. The anterior tibiae unarmed. The thorax with a slight pro- 

 thoracic crest. Second joint of the palpus triangular, brown on the 

 sides ; the third joint slight and short, and with the upper surface 

 of the second, white and contrasting. 



Ground color of the anterior wings cinereous, overlaid with 

 brown ; the lines are indicated on the costa by conspicuous oblique 

 brown clashes, below they are simple, brown, and less distinct ; half 

 line present ; the interior line below the costal dash, perpendicular, 

 strongly lobed ; the claviform spot absent; the ordinary spots are 

 almost equal, filled with reddish-brown ; in one male specimen the 

 reniform is white and contrasting; the exterior line is dentate, 

 strongly produced around the reniform, below it is obsolete; a series 

 of yellow dots preceded b} r irregular brown blotches mark the 311b- 

 terminal line ; the terminal space more distinctly cinereous. 



Posterior wings brownish fuscous, with brownish-yellow fringes; 

 no traces of the discal dots or median line. 



Beneath reddish-brown, with discal dots and a distinct common 

 median line. 



Eab. New Hampshire. 



We have seen three specimens of this fine species captured by 

 Mr. C. P. Whitney, at Milford. 



The species is very distinct, the pectinate antennas of the male 

 and the unarmed anterior tibire separate it from almost all the other 

 species of the genus. There is considerable sexual difference in 

 other respects than the antennas ; the males are more purely cine- 

 reous, and have the reniform spot white and conspicuous, the yel- 

 low subterminal spots are also obsolete (at least in the two speci- 

 mens we have seen) ; the females are brown, with the cinereous tint 

 almost entirely confined to the costa and terminal space, the ordi- 

 nary spots are brown and concolorous, and the subterminal spots 

 are yellow and distinct. 



This species approaches M. Guenee's Noctua elimata, from 

 Georgia, but it differs in several essential particulars. 



Agrotis brocha, Morr. 



Agrotis brocJius, Morr., Proc. Bos. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. xvii. p. 163 

 (1874). 



Anterior tibia? spinose. Sides of the palpi brown, above gray 

 and concolorous with the front. Collar blackish, disconcolorous. 

 Anterior wings gray, having a broad costal band, the terminal 

 space and the neighborhood of the spots suffused with dark brown ; 






NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 5? 



interior line perpendicular, geminate ; claviform and orbicular spots 

 absent, the reniform distinct, black with an irregular pale annulus ; 

 median shade distinct; the exterior line reduced to a series of black 

 dots on the nervules ; terminal space dark-brown. Posterior 

 wings white, with a faint discal dot. 



Beneath light gray, with discal dots and traces of the median 

 lines ; the basal and median spaces on the anterior wings blackish. 



Hab. Colorado, Nebraska. 



Our type of this species was defective and rubbed ; the recent 

 receipt of several specimens in fine condition enables us to give a 

 complete description. 



We consider it our representative of the European A. corticea. 



Agrotis plagigera, Morr. 



Proc. Bos. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. xvii. p. 163, 1874. 



Our type of this species was captured in Colorado ; we have since 

 received specimens from other localities which show that it is also 

 found in other Western States. It is allied to A. 4 dentata and 

 A. messoria, and it is possible that it may ultimately be con- 

 sidered a variety of the former. The ground color of the anterior 

 wings light-gra}^, slightly tinted in the median space with ochre- 

 ous; the costa is light and the nervures dark, accompanied by 

 faint whitish shades; the half-line and the median lines are gemi- 

 nate, denticulate, and distinct, the median shade simple, but also 

 distinct; the subterminal line is light, preceded by a series of 

 cuneiform black markings; the terminal space blackish; the spots 

 are all present, the orbicular and reniform large and whitish, with 

 gray annuli, the claviform concolorous, black-edged, and con- 

 spicuous. 



The posterior wings gray, with a darker diffuse terminal shad- 

 ing. 



Hab. Colorado, Kansas, Illinois. 



Agrotis redimicula, Morr. 



A. redimacula (err.), Morr., Proc. Bos. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. xvii. p. 1G5 

 (1874). 



Since describing this species we have obtained specimens from 

 widely separated places which show it to be spread over the 

 Eastern, Middle, and Western States. 



The following are some of these localities: Colorado (T. L. 

 Mead) ; Missouri (C. V. Riley) ; New York (T. L. Mead); Long 

 5 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEiMY OF 



Island (Fred. Tepper) ; Albany, K Y. (J. A. Lintner); Boston, 

 Mass. (H. K. Morrison) ; Maine (A. S. Packard, Jr.). 



The specimens show little or no variation ; the following are 

 the characters of the species : All the tibiae spinose ; ovipositor 

 of the female slightly extended ; the collar with a distinct heavy 

 black line. 



Coloration of the anterior wings entirety black, and light and 

 dark cinereous ; a very distinct thick basal dash ; interior line 

 black, oblique, nearly straight; to it the small black claviform spot 

 is attached ; three very conspicuous, equal, light cinereous subcos- 

 tal spots, the first and second (a basal spot and the orbicular) 

 separated by a clear black, triangular spot, the second and third 

 (the orbicular and reniform) separated b}^ a quadrate spot of the 

 same color ; the median shade absent; exterior line black, gemi- 

 nate, preceded by a darkening of the ground color ; the subternii- 

 nal line light, followed by the dark terminal space ; the fringe 

 lio-hter cinereous. 



Posterior wings uniform dark fuscous in eastern specimens ; in 

 the Coloradan specimens there is a quite distinct terminal dark- 

 gray band. 



Beneath gray, not characteristic. On the anterior wings of this 

 species there are three shades of cinereous, the light cinereous of 

 the subcostal spots, the dark cinereous of the terminal and latter 

 half of the median space, and a cinereous shade between the two 

 which prevails over the rest of the wings. 



Agrotis rileyana, Morr. 



Proc. Bos. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. xvii. p. 166 (1874). 



We have recently received from Mr. Thos. E. Bean, beautiful 

 specimens of both sexes of this rare species, and we improve the 

 opportunity to give a more extended description of it. 



It belongs to the group of which A. messo?-ia, Harr., is the most 

 common and widely spread member; it diners from this species 

 by the bipectinate antennae of the male and from all other species 

 of the genus by the coarse rough squamation of the anterior 

 wings; the scales are almost as large as those of Valeria grotei, 

 Morr. 



The species is stout and robust, and the terminal spines of the 

 anterior tibiae are very large and heavy ; the median lines are 

 simple and distinct; the ordinary spots are black, widely sepa- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



rated; the orbicular small, placed close to the interior line ; the 

 reniforni very large and conspicuous. 



The posterior wings are white, with a diffuse gray border, very 

 narrow in the male, in the female wider and extending up the 

 nervules. 



The sexes also differ in another particular : in the males the 

 anterior wings are clear gray ; in the females the wings are over- 

 spread with ochreous scales which extend over the thorax. 



Hab. Illinois, Missouri. 



Agrotis gladiaria, Morr. 



Proc. Bos. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. xvii. p. 162 (1874). 



This species is allied to the European A. vestigialis, Rott. 



We have received specimens from St. Catharines, Canada, re- 

 cently sent us by Mr. George Norman. They were captured May 

 and July, 9. 



The antennas of the male is bipectinate. On the anterior wings 

 the costa in the male is whitish and contrasting, in the female 

 dark and concolorous ; a black basal dash ; the interior line is 

 only seen below the median nervure, it is then for a short distance 

 quite distinct, and to it is attached the black-lined claviform spot ; 

 the orbicular spot is small, the reniform large and dark ; the sub- 

 terminal line is preceded by a series of more or less distinct black 

 cuneiform markings ; all the nervures are accompanied by pale 

 contrasting shades, more prominent in the males ; posterior wings 

 dark fuscous. Beneath nearly uniform grayish fuscous, with 

 traces of the discal dots. 



Hab. Mass., Canada. 



Argrotis unimacula, Morr. 



Proc. Bos. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. xvii. p. 166 (1874). A. hantspica, 

 Grote, Bull. Buff. Soc. Nat. Sci., vol. ii. p. 214 (1875). 



Mr. Grote states that our name is preoccupied ; this is an error, 

 the name is used by Dr. Staudinger for a simple variety of the 

 common A. plecta, Linn. 



Since describing A. unimacula we have received many other spe- 

 cimens of the species, principally from Messrs. J. A. Lintner and 

 T. L. Mead ; the orbicular spot is not always absent, and quite 

 frequently both spots are present. 



Mamestra thecata, Morr., nov. sp. 



Expanse 32 mm. Length of body 14 mm. 



This is a well-marked, comparatively slender-bodied species 




60 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



related to M. incincta, Morr. Eyes hairy. Antennae simple in 

 both sexes. Thorax with a slight prothoracic tuft, concolorous 

 with the anterior wings. Abdomen short, untufted. 



Ground color of the anterior wings light yellowish-gray, almost 

 entirely overspread with blackish, the lighter color appearing 

 principally between the geminate median lines, and in scattered 

 patches on the basal, median, and subterminal spaces ; a distinct 

 black basal longitudinal dash ; interior line straight, oblique, den- 

 ticulate, its outer component line black and best expressed ; 

 median shade obsolete ; ordinary spots unusually small, black, 

 with incomplete ochreous annuli, the reniibrm followed by a light 

 spot ; exterior line black, geminate, its inner component line the 

 most distinct; it is incepted on the costa directly above the reni- 

 ibrm spot, boldly produced around it and drawn in below it, nar- 

 rowing the median space ; subterminal line obsolete ; a distinct 

 broad light subapical streak ; terminal space black, a yellowish 

 line at the base of the concolorous fringe. 



Posterior wings whitish, with a discal dot, narrow connected 

 median line and a broad suffuse blackish terminal band ; an inter- 

 rupted black line at the base of the whitish fringe. 



Beneath, yellowish white, sprinkled with numerous black atoms ; 



discal dots distinct, as well as a very prominent black median 



line. 



Hab. Glen Valley, near Mt. Washington, N. H., and Plymouth, 



Mass. 



The former specimen was received from Mr. S. H. Scudder, the 

 latter from Mr. Edward Burgess, and was taken July 23, 1867. 



The species is quite different in form of markings and color from 

 our other Mamestrae, and we think will not be difficult to recog- 

 nize. 

 Oncocnemis meadiana, nov. sp. 



Expanse 29 mm. Length of body 12 mm. 



Eyes naked, with short lashes. Antennae of the female simple. 

 Abdomen untufted, with a short projecting ovipositor. Tibiae not 

 spinose, the anterior pair provided with a slender claw at the ex- 

 tremity. 



Anterior wings clear bluish-gray, the markings black ; interior 

 line regularly arcuate ; orbicular spot round, black-ringed, crossed 

 by the median shade, which is straight and oblique ; the reniform 

 spot stained with red, incompletely surrounded by a black annu- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



his; the exterior line curves closely around the reniform and is 

 much drawn in below it, thus narrowing the median space; the 

 subterminal line is white, jagged, and irregular, preceded and fol- 

 lowed by black stains ; a black terminal line, followed by a clear 

 white line at the base of the gray fringe. 



Posterior wings white, without discal dots and with a black 

 suffuse terminal border ; the nervules are tinged with black ; fringe 

 white. 



Beneath, the anterior wings are gray, with a few scattered white 

 scales on the costa and terminal margin ; posterior wings white, 

 with traces of a black costal and terminal border. 



Hab. Colorado, Aug. 18 (No. 47, Mr. T. L. Mead). 



Mr. Mead's collection is particularly rich in species of the genus 

 Oncocnemis, this being the fifth he obtained in Colorado. We de- 

 dicate it to him in recognition of his ability as a collector as well 

 as a student ; the specimens obtained on a single summer's tour 

 having furnished material for at least half a dozen long papers by 

 different lepidopterists. 



0. meadiana approaches to 0. chandleri, but it is a much 

 smaller and less robust insect; the terminal band of the posterior 

 wings is not regular and well-defined, but diffuse and extends into 

 the white median space along the nervules. 



Hadena suffusca, nov. sp. 



Expanse 44 mm. Length of body 19 ram. 



Allied to H. apamiformis, Guen., and agreeing with that spe- 

 cies in its structural characters, excepting that the third palpal 

 joint is perceptibly longer, and that the middle dorsal abdominal 

 tufts are obsolete. 



Head and thorax light brown. 



Coloration of the anterior wings brown on a light gray ground ; 

 the brown tints ai'e strongest on the costa and in the upper part 

 of the median space ; along the inner margin and in the subter- 

 minal space the ground color prevails ; the subterminal line is 

 preceded by a series of brown blotches, and following it the termi- 

 nal space is tinged with bluish. 



The ordinary lines and spots formed as in H. apamiformis, ex- 

 cept that the interior line extends direct to the inner margin and 

 does not form an outward projection on the submedian nervure. 



Posterior wings as in the related species. 



Beneath both wings are strongly suffused with brown. 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Hob. Mass., Conn., Colorado. 



We have been acquainted for some time with a poor specimen of 

 this form from Massachusetts, in the collection of the Boston So- 

 ciety of Natural History, and have considered it a variety of H. 

 apamiformis, but the discovery by Mr. T. L. Mead of concordant 

 specimens from Colorado and Connecticut, and the capture by Mr. 

 Moring of several specimens at Nahant, Mass., during the past 

 summer, convinces us that it is distinct from the above species. 



The delicate brown tints of the anterior wings will always dis- 

 tinguish it. 



Mamestra rufula, nov. sp. 



M. brassicce (Linn.) Grote, Bull. Buff. Soc. Nat. Sci., vol. i. p. 103, and 

 vol. ii. p. 12. 



We have compared specimens of our species with a considerable 

 number of examples of the European M. brassicee, and are satisfied 

 that they are distinct from one another, although closely allied 

 M. rufula is larger and has the anterior wings comparatively 

 broader ; the reniform spot is smaller, rectangular, and better de- 

 fined ; there is a distinct white blotch before the inner angle, fol- 

 lowed by a reddish shade ; beneath both wings are strongly suffused 

 with reddish-brown, most evident along the costae. 



The latter character is the most conspicuous, although perhaps 

 not the most valuable in separating the species. 



We have specimens of the American species from Massachu- 

 setts, New York, Illinois, Missouri, and Indiana; it does not 

 appear to be of very rare occurrence, though by no means so 

 common as M. brassicee. 



Actinotia derupta, nov. sp. 



Expanse 34 mm. Length of body 15 mm. 



Eyes naked. Tibia? unarmed. Thorax smooth and un tufted ; 

 abdomen also untufted. Anterior wings and thorax yellowish- 

 gray, with brown markings ; on the former the ordinary lines and 

 spots are very indistinct and diffuse ; a dark brown basal streak, 

 and another similar streak beneath the sub median nervure ; a 

 streak extends along the inner margin to the exterior line ; the 

 interior line and the claviform and orbicular spots are obsolete ; 

 the reniform is present as a distinct but diffuse blackish-brown 

 spot; a series of brown markings along the costa ; exterior line 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



indistinct, formed of sharp internervular indentations; the inner 

 angle yellowish-gray, without brown intermixture. 



Posterior wings whitish, iridescent ; without markings. Beneath, 

 on the anterior wings, the reniform spot is reproduced, and the 

 nervures are distinctly tinted with blackish-brown. 



Hob. Texas, September 21. 



This species resembles somewhat the figures of Phalsena phyto- 

 laccse, Sm. Abb. (which is still unidentified), but diffei's in several 

 material points. The figures appear to be coarse and over-colored, 

 so that the species intended will be difficult of determination. 



Hadena inordinata, nov. sp. 



Expanse 35 mm. Length of body 1*7 mm. 



Eyes naked. Abdomen tufted. Thorax with the usual tufts. 



Markings of the anterior wings confused, black, white, and 

 3'ellowish-brown ; a narrow basal dash, and another on the inner 

 margin beneath the submedian nervure; interior line black, gem- 

 inate and dentate, with a whitish included shade line, extending 

 obliqueby outwards to the submedian nervure, then quickly drawn 

 in ; claviform spot indistinct^ outlined ; median spots blackish, 

 with white annuli, the orbicular elongate ; the exterior line rounded 

 above, below straight, its included white shade line very distinct ; 

 the median space is more or less suffused with yellow-brown ; it 

 is most contracted at the submedian nervure, above which the 

 median lines are sometimes connected by a black streak, but this 

 streak is frequently obsolete and its place filled by two short 

 black markings before the exterior line; subterminal line white, 

 with the usual distinct teeth, preceded by a series of very distinct 

 black cuneiform markings ; terminal space blackish ; a series of 

 black lunules at the base of the checkered fringe. 



Posterior wings yellowish-brown, with the costa shaded with 

 gray ; discal dots, a distinct narrow median line, and a broad 

 black terminal band. 



Beneath, with very conspicuous discal dots on both wings, as 

 well as traces of median and terminal shade bands. 



Hab. Massachusetts, in June, from our collection. 



This species is allied to H.cariosa and H. sectilis, but will at once 

 be distinguished by the color of the posterior wings and the ar- 

 rangement of the black bands thereon. 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Hadena stipata, nov. sp. 



Expanse 36 mm. Length of body 17 mm. 



Sides of the palpi black, the third joint short and barely sepa- 

 rated from the second. Abdomen smooth and untufted. 



This species is closely allied to H. cariosa, but it differs in the 

 important particulars mentioned above, as well as in the color of 

 the posterior wings, which are white with only a faint terminal 

 gray border. 



All the nervules are accompanied by deep purple black shades, 

 between which the ground color appears ; the ordinary spots are 

 indistinct, but shaped as in H. cariosa; the three longitudinal deep 

 black dashes are present as in the former species ; the exterior line 

 is also present, but it is white and fine, and is not crossed b} r the 

 median dash ; the lower portion of the median space above the 

 submedian nervure and the terminal space are purple black ; the 

 inner margin is clear and light. 



Beneath, both wings are white at the base, but suffused with gray 

 atoms outwardly ; the discal dots indistinct. 



Eab. Illinois. One specimen received from Mr. Thos. E. Bean. 



H. stipata is very closely allied to H. verbascoides and H. cariosa, 

 but we think the characters above mentioned are sufficient to sep- 

 arate it. 



The discovery of more specimens will determine its claims to 

 the rank of a good species. 



Hadena paginata, nov. sp. 



Expanse 24 mm. Length of body 9 mm. 



Abdomen smooth and untufted. Form slight. Habitus and 

 markings of H. rasilis, Morr., and H. chalcedonia, Hiibn. 



Ground color of the anterior wings uniform gray, the markings 

 very simple ; the median lines are black and simple, the exterior 

 line extends from the inner margin just before the internal angle, 

 obliquely across the wings, turning out, and forming a rounded 

 projection opposite the reniform spot ; the interior line extends 

 obliquely to the usual place of the orbicular spot, it then con- 

 tinues irregularly to the costa; the half-line present ; the ordinary 

 spots are very small, the orbicular usually obsolete, the reniform 

 whitish ; they are connected by a narrow intense black dash, which 

 sometimes encircles the spots, thus uniting together the median 

 lines ; the subterminal line obsolete. Posterior wings white, usu- 

 ally crossed by a blackish median line. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



Beneath, the anterior wings are blackish, the posteriors white ; 

 both are crossed by a common median line. 



Hab. Florida (Mr. C. J. Maynard). 



This species apparently occurs rather abundantly in the locali- 

 ties where it is found ; on this account we have compared it very 

 carefully with M. Guenee's descriptions of H. festivoides and H. 

 eocesa, which are still unidentified, but it can hardly be either of them. 



Mr. Maynard also captured a number of interesting species, 

 several of which have not been recorded from Florida before. 



We name a few of them : Litoprosopus futilis, G. and R. ; Ta- 

 rache terminimaculata, Grote ; Pseudolimacodes niveicostatus, 

 Grote; Amolita fessa, Grote; Phurys vinculum, Guen. ; Agrotis 

 incivis, Guen. (Anicla Alabamse, Grote). We do not think this 

 species should be separated from the other agrotids on account 

 of the scaly clothing of the thorax, several of the European spe- 

 cies the thorax likewise scaly, or covered with mingled scales and 

 hair ; Harveya auripennis, Grote, in this specimen there is no 

 black stain on the inner margin ; Callopistria mollissima, Guen. ; 

 and Hadena arna, Guen., the latter species is now for the first 

 time identified in our collections. 



Laphygma inflexa, nov. sp. 



Expanse 30 mm. Length of body 13 mm. 



Eyes naked. Tihias unarmed. Head and thoracic parts as in 

 L.frugiperda, Sm. Abb. Anterior wings cinereous gray ; half-line 

 present ; interior line distinct, simple, and angulate ; the costa to 

 the exterior line is shaded with white; orbicular and claviform 

 spots absent, the reniform whitish, of medium size, its annulus black 

 and circular; exterior line black and very prominent, it forms a 

 sharp outward projection on the costa; beyond the cell it is straight 

 and below it drawn in, here forming several short sharp indenta- 

 tions ; the line is followed by a more or less distinct blackish 

 shade line ; subterminal space largely whitish, entirely so at the 

 costa and inner margin; terminal space dark; a black even line 

 at the base of the fringe. 



Posterior winos broad, with a well-marked an^le at the term- 

 ination of the third median branch ; in color they are whitish, iri- 

 descent; the nervules at their termination are tinged with black. 

 Beneath the anterior wings, except along the inner margin, are 

 intense black, without markings ; the posteriors are precisely as 

 above, without any traces of the usual discal dots. 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Hub. Jacksonville, Fla. 



This species can at once be separated from its well-known con- 

 genor by the form of the posterior wings. 



Orthosia ferrugineoides, Quen. 



" Species General," vol. v. p. 398, 1852. 



Xanthia valla, G. & R., Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc, vol. i. p. 346, pi. 7> 



fig. 49. 

 Xanthia bicolorago, Guen. vol. v. p. 397, 1852. 



We have recently seen specimens determined as X. ralla, G. & R. ; 

 this confirms our previous opinion (formed from the figure and 

 description) that it was a redescription of the common 0. ferru- 

 gineoides, Guen. 



The figure given by Grote and Robinson represents the form in 

 which the ground color is light-yellow and the markings fine and 

 interrupted ; it is of common occurrence. The form which we 

 think M. Guenee has described under the name of bicolorago, has, 

 on the contrary, the ground color of a darker obscure yellow and 

 all the markings very heavy and black, particularly the median 

 shade ; the terminal and the outer part of the subterminal spaces 

 ai'e also entirely black, and the posterior wings are crossed by two 

 distinct median lines. 



We have seen specimens in the Museum of Comparative Zoolo- 

 gy at Cambridge, in which the whole surface of the anterior wings 

 is overspread with black ; these we would also refer to this variety. 



Our American species is certainly very near to the European 

 0. circellaris, but we have compared a considerable series of them 

 both and find that there are slight but constant differences, enough 

 we think to entitle them to separate designations. 



Orthosia perpura, nov. sp. 



Expanse 31 mm. Length of body 15 mm. 



Eye naked, with lashes. Palpi with the third joint short and 

 stunted. Antennae of the male p3 r ramidal-toothed. Front and 

 thorax concolorous with the anterior wings. Abdomen short and 

 untufted. 



Anterior wings gra} r , overspread in parts with a peculiar bluish 

 cinereous color; all the markings present, although not very well 

 defined ; half-line present; interior line indistinct, from its central 

 lobe proceeds the brown evident claviform spot ; the ordinary 

 spots are close together, brown encircled, concolorous, and of 

 nearly equal size ; the median shade obsolete and the median 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 6t 



space tinted slightly with brown ; the exterior line indistinct, 

 and marked mainly by the slight contrast in color between the 

 median and the cinereous subterminal space ; subterminal line 

 brown, formed by a series of connected spots ; fringe concolorous 

 with a central brown line. 



Posterior wings yellowish fuscous, with a discal lunule. 



Beneath yellowish with distinct discal dots and traces of the 

 median line on the costa of both wings. 



Hob. New York. 



This distinct species can be identified by the color of the ante- 

 rior wings as well as the yellowish posteriors. 



Orthosia differta, nov. sp. 



Expanse 28 mm. Length of body 15 mm. 



Eyes naked, with hairy lashes. Palpi, front, and thorax as in 

 allied species. Abdomen smooth and untufted. 



Anterior wings orange, with the markings disconnected and 

 black ; half-line present ; interior line distinct, perpendicular, con- 

 sisting of three broad lobes, it is formed of black spots, connected 

 by a finer black line ; claviform spot absent, the orbicular concol- 

 orous with a black central dot, and fine black annulus, the reni- 

 form also concolorous, with a central blackish blotch, and an inter- 

 rupted annulus ; the median shade forms a black bar above the 

 reniform, which it touches, below it is fine and linear; exterior line 

 of the usual form, denticulate, followed by a blackish shade line 

 which fills in the teeth of the line ; the subterminal line an inter- 

 rupted series of black spots. Posterior wings yellow, with a 

 broad orange terminal band. 



Beneath yellow with orange shades, distinct discal dots, and a 

 common median line. 



Eab. New York. 



Received from my very kind friend, Mr. Fred. Tepper. 



Schinia gracilenta, Hiibn. 



Zutr. vol. i. figs. 5 and 6. 



Var. oleagina, nov. var. 



Expanse 28 mm. Length of bocby 13 mm. 



Eyes naked. Tibire spinose, the anterior pair armed with a stout 

 long claw. 



Habitus of S. trifascia and S. rectifascia. Anterior wings 

 uniform olivaceous-gray, the median lines are light, clear, and 




68 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



distinct, not accompanied by darker shades ; the interior line curves 

 outward on the costa and then extends obliquely back, parallel 

 with the exterior line, the latter is oblique and very slightly undu- 

 lating ; the subterminal line also parallel, less distinct, and fol- 

 lowed b} r longitudinal light shades along the nervules. 



Posterior wings yellowish-white, with a faint terminal rosy 

 border. 



Beneath nearly uniform in tint with traces of terminal reddish 

 borders. 



Hob. Texas. 



One specimen received from Mr. E. L. Graef, of Brooklyn. 



The following are the points of difference between this specimen 

 and Hiibner's figures of S. gracilenta ; the} r are considerable, but the 

 general resemblance is so great between the forms that we cannot 

 think them specifically distinct, at least until more material is 

 received : in S. gracilenta the extei'ior line is more curved, particu- 

 larly on the inner margin, the subterminal space is dark and con- 

 trasting, the posterior wings have a well-defined gray border 

 instead of a rather faint rosy one, and finally the anterior wings 

 beneath have a distinct discal dot and median line, which are 

 entirely absent in S. oleagina. 



S. gracilenta is one of Hiibner's unidentified species, and is 

 marked unknown on Mr. Grote's recent list. 



Schinia tepperi, nov. sp. 



Expanse 21 mm. Length of body 8 mm. 



Eyes naked. Anterior tibiae absent in the single specimen of 

 the species before us, which is otherwise in good condition ; prob- 

 ably they are armed with curved claws as in the other species of 

 the genus. Abdomen short and untufted. Front and thorax 

 with smooth, concolorous, scaly squamation. 



Ground color of the anterior wings olivaceous gray ; the wings 

 are crossed by three white lines ; the first or interior line extends 

 obliquely from the inner margin to the costa ; the second or ex- 

 terior line extends subparallel with the former from the middle of 

 the inner margin toward the apex, but on reaching the fifth sub- 

 costal nervule it turns abruptly, reaching the costa at about two- 

 thirds of the distance from the base to the apex; a triangular 

 space extending from this upper portion of the exterior line to 

 the apex is dark olivaceous gray and contrasts with the ground 

 color ; the third or subterminal line is as distinct as the other 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



lines, and extends from the inner margin to the apex, nearly paral- 

 lel with the outer border ; the fringe light ; the median nervule is 

 tinged with white, the reniform spot is also faintly seen as a white 

 cross line. 



The posterior wings are uniform light olivaceous gray. Beneath 

 the markings are light gray, not at all distinctive. 



Hab. Texas. September 15. 



We dedicate this species to our friend Mr. Fred Tepper, a care- 

 ful and enthusiastic student and collector. 



It diners materially from S. rectifascia, Grote, and from the 

 two unidentified species figured by Hiibner. 



Heliothis lucens, nov. sp. 



Expanse 27 mm. Length of body 14 mm. 



All the tibiae spinose, the anterior tibise with several strong- 

 claw terminal-like spines. 



Thorax concolorous with the anterior wings ; the latter are 

 dark red, thickly overspread with bluish atoms, which give them 

 a very singular and beautiful appearance; the ordinary lines are 

 white, all very distinct and clear ; the interior line perpendicular, 

 strongly lobed between the nervules ; the exterior line dentate, 

 straight opposite the cell, below it strongly drawn in ; snbtermi- 

 nal line rivulous; fringe checkered, white and red. 



Posterior wings j-ellow, with a broad central black basal spot 

 and a very broad black terminal band ; fringes white. 



Beneath yellowish-white, with very distinct markings; on the 

 anterior wings a black basal dash, two median black spots, corre- 

 sponding to the orbicular and reniform spots, several bright red 

 apical dashes and a broad black terminal band crossed by the 

 light nervules ; posterior wings with a conspicuous black discal 

 dot and a double bright red terminal band, which changes before 

 the anal angle into a single broad black band. 



Hab. Mass., Nebraska. 



Described from one specimen in the collection of the Boston 

 Society of Natural Histoiy, and from one in our own collection 

 received from Mr. G. M. Dodge. 



This is one of the most beautiful species of a genus remarkable 

 for its brilliant colors. 



Tarache patula, nov. sp. 



Expanse 15 mm. Length of body 7 mm. 



E}-es naked. Clothing of the front and thorax close and scaly. 




TO PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Form comparatively stout. Anterior wings triangular, with 

 straight costal margin and pointed apices ; in color they are light 

 yellow, with ferruginous markings; the latter are very simple, 

 thej' consist only of broad oblique ferruginous fasciae; the first 

 fascia extends from the inner margin, about one-third of the 

 distance from the base to the inner angle, to the apex, it gradually 

 decreases in breadth and at the apex becomes linear ; the second 

 fascia extends from a point on the inner margin, about two-thirds 

 of the distance from the base to the inner angle, to the apex, it is 

 of nearly equal breadth throughout ; the terminal space is shaded 

 with ferruginous. 



Posterior wings yellowish, immaculate, except a ferruginous 

 dash on the costa just before the apex of the anterior wings. 



Hab. Texas. September 11. 



We refer this little species provisionally to this genus ; it differs 

 from the typical species in the form of the wings and the peculiar 

 character of the markings. We hesitate to found a new genus 

 on a single specimen. 



Tarache crustaria, nov. sp. 



Expanse 26 mm. Length of body 12 mm. 



Habitus and markings of the European T. lucida and T. luc- 

 taosa, and much larger and stouter than our native species, except 

 T. terminimaculata, Grote. 



Eyes naked. Legs long and slender, the tibiae unarmed. 



Front and thorax closely scaled as in the allied species. An- 

 terior wings white, much shaded with black ; a distinct basal 

 black dash, around which the basal space is shaded with blackish; 

 the ordinary spots are reduced to two distinct black dots ; the 

 median space is broad, white, crossed between the spots by a wide 

 blackish band (representing the median shade) extending from 

 the costa to the inner margin ; the terminal and subterminal 

 spaces blackish ; the exterior line is only indicated by the con- 

 trast in color between the spaces ; the subterminal line is white, 

 rivulous, most distinct at the costa and internal angle; it is pre- 

 ceded by two small black blotches, one opposite the cell, the other 

 between the second and third median nervules ; a conspicuous 

 black blotch at the apex ; a series of black dots at the base of the 

 white fringe. Posterior wings black, with indistinct discal dots 

 and with a broad conspicuous white median band, extending from 

 the abdominal margin two-thirds of the distance across the wings. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



Beneath white, with discal dots, a narrow common median line 

 and a broad suffuse common subterminal hand. 



Hob. Nebraska. 



Described from material given us by Mr. G. M. Dodge. 



This insect is separated from all the North American species 

 of the genus by the blaek posterior wings, crossed by a single 

 white band; in this particular it resembles the European T. luc- 

 tuosa. 



Lithacodia penita, nov. sp. 



Expanse 23 mm. Length of body 10 mm. 



Habitus and markings of L. bellicula, Hiibner, to which it is 

 closely allied ; it differs in the following particulars : the interior 

 line is strongly outwardly produced beneath the median nervure, 

 the orbicular spot absent, the reniform pure white and very dis- 

 tinct, preceded by a dark brown shading; the exterior line is not 

 followed by a white contrasting shade line as in L. bellicula, nor is 

 it angulate beneath the cell ; the subterminal line white, very clear 

 at the costa, where it is preceded by a brown shade, below it con- 

 trasts with the dark brown terminal space ; posterior wings uni- 

 form dark gray ; beneath, both wings are gra}', the posteriors 

 have a median transverse line. 



Hub. New York. 



i 



One female specimen received from Mr. Fred. Tepper. In this 

 species the ovipositor protrudes, but it is partially concealed by 

 the anal tuft. 



L. penita and its ally are related to Eustrotia rather than Jas- 

 pidea,. 



Remigia texana, Morr. 



Remigia var. texana Morr., Proc. Bost. Soc Nat. Hist., vol. xvii. p. 219, 



1874. 



Since we published our description of this form we have received 

 additional material, and now we think probable that it is distinct 

 from the well-known R. latipes, Guen. The median lines are very 

 plain, extending from border to border, and accompanied by light- 

 er shade lines ; the orbicular spot is reduced to a white dot ; the 

 reniform is black encircled, concolorous, from its base the double, 

 wavy, median shade extends to the inner margin ; a series of 

 black subterminal dots. 



Expanse 45 mm. Hab. Texas. 




V2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



March 2. 

 The President, Dr Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-eight members present. 



On Thin Sections of the Traps of the Mesozoic Basin. Prof. 

 Frazer made the following remarks: The great mesozoic basin 

 traverses York, Adams, Chester, and Montgomery Counties, in 

 Pennsylvania, as well as New Jersey and New York, while de- 

 tached portions are found in several of the New England States, 

 in none of which are its characteristics more clearly defined than 

 in Connecticut. During a recent visit to New Haven I had the 

 privilege of examining the fine microscopic slides or thin sections 

 which have been prepared by Mr. Dana from the traps of that 

 region. It is of great interest to observe the striking resemblance 

 of these rocks to our own from the same formation. To the eye 

 and even under the magnifying glass they seem the same, whereas 

 in fact they are of, at least, two different kinds. 



One kind, which has been described on several occasions before 

 the Academ} 7 as that forming the Seminary Ridge near Gettys- 

 burg, is a greenish-gray compact dolerite (projected by me on the 

 screen by means of the gas microscope, at a previous meeting), 

 which, under higher magnifying power, shows white tablets of 

 >lagioclastic felspar and green ciystals of pyroxene, with some 

 chrysolite (olirinej. 



Far different is the rock which has been previously referred to 

 as Sj*enite, and which has an apparently similar representative 

 near New Haven. Under the microscope, however, the coarse 

 rock from New Haven resembling the others from that locality 

 in everything but texture, differs materially from the specimen 

 from Gettysburg. 



Since my return home I have examined two or three other slides 

 of the Gettysburg rock, and find no essential difference between 

 them. They contain hornblende and quartz; the others do not. 

 The constituents of the coarse rock from both States were pyrox- 

 enite, plagioclase, maguetite, some chrysolite, some bictite, and 

 rarely quartz. 



The investigations of the last week have led me to query the 

 occurrence of prehinite in this rock which I reported at the last 

 meeting. But these questions will be settled very soon. 



The death of Rev. Henry S. Spackman was announced. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



March 9. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Eighteen members present. 



The Feet of Bathmodon. Prof. Cope described the structure. 

 of the feet in Bathmodon. He pointed out the existence of five 

 digits on each of the feet, composed of very short metapodial and 

 phalangeal bones. The carpus resembles that of the Toxodonts 

 as described by Prof. Burmeister, but differs in the much greater 

 nlno-carpal articulation. The carpus differs from that of the Pro- 

 boscidia in the considerable mutual articulation of the unciform 

 and lunar bones. The tarsus more nearly resembles that of the 

 Proboscidians, but differs in the abbreviation of the navicular bone, 

 on the inner side. This abbreviation permits the cuboid, which is 

 wide as in the Elephants, as well as the ectocuneiform, to come in 

 contact with the astragalus. On these grounds, the genus Bath- 

 modon, and probably Coryphodon, Owen, which is nearly allied to 

 it, were separated as a distinct order from the Proboscidia, under 

 the name of Ambhjpoda, and two suborders were recognized, viz. : 

 Pantodonta, represented by Bathmodon, and Dinocerata, repre- 

 sented by Uintatherium and Loxolophodon. 



The death of Dr. G. W. Norris was announced. 



March 16. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-one members present. 



Remarks on some Marine Rhizopods. Prof. Leidy remarked 

 that he had spent a short time last August at Noank, on the 

 coast of Connecticut, where Prof. Baird was then engaged in pur- 

 suing his inquiries and investigations as United States Commis- 

 sioner of Fisheries. Throuo;h the kindness of Prof. Baird he 

 had been enabled to make a few observations on some marine 

 Rhizopods. 



Some years ago, on the beach at Newport, R. I., he had noticed 

 that the ripple marks of the sand were crested with white parti- 

 cles, which could be scraped up by the handful, and which he at 

 first viewed as the pulverized debris of various calcareous shells. 

 On closer examination the material was found in large proportion 

 to consist of the dead shells of Foraminifera. The immense 

 quantities of these remains, extending in innumerable ridges over 



6 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



the broad expanse of the beach, had led him to suspect that he 

 would find them living in the greatest profusion in the dredgings 

 off the coast of Noank. In this view he had been disappointed, 

 though man}' living individuals were obtained in dredging, 

 adhering to hydroids, sponges, and the roots of fuci. The 

 number of species observed was small, though the individuals of 

 several of them were numerous. In the best condition, and espe- 

 cially abundant, were two Foraminifers, a Miliola, and a Rotalia, 

 exhibiting some variety of form. 



The Miliola resembles the Quinqveoculina meredionalis of 

 Dorbigny, and is probably the same species. The shell, from |th 

 to ^ 111 of a line in breadth, is white and more or less translucent, 

 or is colorless and transparent. It exhibits five compartments or 

 cells, in the mouth of the last and largest of which there is a 

 blunt, conical tooth. The interior soft structure was yellowish- 

 brown, or pinkish-brown, darkest in the smallest cell, successively 

 lighter in the others, and sometimes nearly colorless in the last or 

 largest cell. In the last cell, and less frequently in the second 

 cell, the soft matter exhibited many globules of transparent, 

 colorless liquid. In the active condition the animal protruded a 

 multitude of exceedingly delicate pseudopods, which, radiating 

 from the mouth, ramified and frequently anastomosed in the most 

 intricate manner, as usual among Foraminifers. 



The Rotalia is a beautiful, spiral, many-chambered shell, from 

 the tVfch to the ^th of a line in breadth, and strongly resembles 

 the Rosalina varians, as represented in Figure 8, Plate III. of 

 Schultze's Polythalamien. The shell is white and more or less 

 translucent, and is composed of from twelve to eighteen cells. 

 The soft structure within is dark-reddish or yellowish-brown in 

 the smallest cells, light brown or yellowish in the larger cells, and 

 faintly yellowish or colorless in the largest cells. Pseudopods 

 radiated everywhere from the minute pores of the shell. 



A few Polythalmous shells were observed, which appeared to 

 be composed of particles of sand cemented in the same manner as 

 in the fresh-water Difflugians. One of them was a spiral shell 

 like a Rotalia, composed of eighteen cells, and measuring about 

 J tli of a line in breadth. The soft structure within the smallest 

 cells appeared to be amber-brown. 



Anotfier of these arenaceous shells resembled in its shape and 

 the alternation of the cells the Textilaria agglutinans of Dorbigny, 

 of the West Indies. A specimen of thirteen cells was about the 

 1'oth of a line long by T ^ of a line at the broad end. The soft 

 structure was reddish-brown within the smallest cells, becoming 

 successively lighter in the larger cells, until in the last or largest 

 it was colorless, or nearly so. 



A third form consisted of a straight or slightly bent series of 

 cells, for the most part oblate spheroidal, and successively in- 

 creasing in size. The first cell is globular and larger than the few 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



75 



succeeding ones. The last or largest cell is more of a conical form. 

 The interior structure was faintly yellowish or nearly colorless. 

 A specimen of eighteen cells was |th of a line long, with the last 

 cell about ^ s th of a line in diameter. 



An interesting Rhizopod, not pertaining to the Polythalamous 

 foraminifers, to which my attention was directed by Prof. Verrill, 

 frequently occurred in the mud dredged off the Connecticut coast. 

 The same creature is referred to by Prof. Verrill in the Report 

 of the Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries for 1871 and 1872, page 

 503, as being extremely abundant in the clear siliceous sand 

 dredged from Vineyard Sound. 



The creature was discovered by Dr. Sandahl in the Bohnslaiis 

 Archipelago, and is described in the Ofvers. K. Vetensk. Ak. 

 Foi-h., Stockholm, 1857, 301, under the name of Astrorhiza limi- 

 cola. It is also referred to in Thomson's " Depths of the Sea," p. 

 75, as occurring in the Atlantic ooze off the Faroe Isles. 



The case of this Rhizopod is constructed of angular particles of 

 quartz-sand, cemented by tenacious matter mingled with the finest 

 dark-colored mud. The body of the case is discoid or lenticular, 

 with a number of short cylindroid processes radiant from the 

 margin, giving the case altogether an irregular stellate form, as 

 represented in the accompanying wood-cut. 



Sandahl describes the shell as exhibiting scattered yellowish- 

 brown spots, unequal, irregular, and somewhat shining. These 

 spots, in the specimens examined by me, are due to the translucent 

 quartz particles through which the yellowish color of the interior 

 soft structure of the animal is seen. Sandahl gives the number 

 of radii from 10 to 15, and the size of the case from 3 to 4 lines. 

 Our specimens measured from 2^ to 4 lines, and exhibited radii 

 from G to 13 in number. 



The interior soft substance of the little mud stars is a viscid, 



mucoid matter. The ectosarc 

 is colorless. The entosarc was 

 granular and yellowish, some- 

 times containing ova-like bod- 

 ies, with darker yellow or 

 orange-colored contents. Be- 

 sides these the entosarc con- 

 tained clear globules and a 

 multitude of diatomes, princi- 

 pally a species of Coscinodis- 

 cus. 



I failed to see the Astro- 

 rhiza in a very active condi- 

 tion, probably from the hot 

 summer weather too quickly 

 giving rise to decomposition in 

 the material collected. Only in 

 two instances did I discover 



Astrorhiza limicola, magnified ]<> diameters. 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



the animal with a number of delicate filamentous pseudopods pro- 

 jected from the processes of the disk. The pseudopods as seen, 

 and as represented by Sandahl, are like those of the Foraminifera. 

 In the single-chambered character and structure of the case, 

 Astrorhiza resembles the fresh-water DifHugia, but differs in 

 having many orifices, to protrude the pseudopods, instead of a 

 single one. 



Notes on the Character of the Lower Silurian Slate at their Out- 

 crops. Prof. Frazer remarked that afine-graiued hydromica slate 

 from a point on the Peach Bottom Railroad, about five miles from 

 York, had been submitted to Dr. Genth for an investigation of the 

 amount of its alkaline constituents. 



The specimen was of greenish-gray color and semi-unctuous 

 lustre, and contained, in a chloritic mass, fine scales of mica, and 

 exceedingly fine particles of a mineral of apparently metallic 

 lustre. 



The water gave 2.36 per cent. 



Potash " 1.05 



Soda " 0.75 " 



With a decided trace of lithia (possibly from contained Lepido- 

 lite). 



Dr. Genth adds, "Taking the potash as belonging to Damourite, 

 we should have nearly 9 per cent, of it ; and the soda to parago- 

 nite there would be 9.6 per cent." 



The mass of this rock is chloritic while the small speck of pearly 

 mica-like mineral might be Euphyllite, or (in view of the per cent, 

 of Li) Cookeite. In the former case both the K and Na would 

 be associated together in the same constituent, while the Li would 

 remain unaccounted for. Vogtite, Margarodite, or the species 

 examined by Smith & Brush, from Litchfield, Connecticut, and 

 which was intermediate between Margarodite and Paragonite, 

 might be represented. 



But the plan proposed by J. D. Dana, of characterizing these 

 partially decomposed slates simply as h}^dro-mica slates, seems to 

 fulfil every requisite of accuracy. 



March 23. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-nine members present. 

 The following papers were presented for publication : 



" On Buteonine Subgenus Craxirex, Gould." By Robert Ridg- 

 way. 



"On Nisus Cooperi, Bonaparte, and N. Gundlachi, Lawrence." 

 By Robert Ridgway. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 17 



March 30. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Sixty-four members present. 



Jacob P. Jones, George Cochran, H. C. Lewis, Wm. G. Castle, 

 James S. Mason, Miss Rebecca Gibson, and Mrs. Caroline G. 

 Taitt, were elected members. 



The Committee to which they had been referred recommended 

 the following papers to be published: 




78 PROCEEDINGS OE THE ACADEMY OF 



ON NISUS COOPERI (BONAPARTE), AND N. GUNDLACHI (LAWRENCE). 



BY ROBERT RIDGWAY. 

 Nisus Cooperi. 

 Fulco cooperi, Bonap., Am. Orn. I. 1828, pi. 10, fig. 1 ; Ann. X. Y. Lye. II. 



433 ; Isis, 1832, 1137. Jameson, (ed. Wils.) Am. Orn. IV. 1831, 3. 



Peab. B. Mass. III. 1841, 78. Astur cooperi, Bonap., Comp. List, 



1838, 5. R. Z. 1850, 489. Consp. I. 1850, 31. Jard. (ed. Wils.) Am. 



Orn. 1840, 651. Accipiter cooperi, Dekay, Zool. X. Y. II. 1844, 18, 



pi. iv. f. 5. Gray, List Ac. B. M. 1848, 38. Gen. B. I. 1849, 29. 



Hand List, I. 18G9, 32. Cass. B. Cal. Tex. etc., 1854, 96 ; B. X. 



Am. 1858, 16. Heerm. Pac. R. R. Rep. VII. 1857, 31. Xewb. lb. VI. 



iv. 1857, 74. Max. Cab. Journ. VI. 1858, 13. Baird, Cat. N. Am. B. 



1859, No. 15. Brewer, X. Am. Oology, I. 1857, 20, pi. v. f. 55. Scl. 

 P. Z. S. 1859, 389. Coop. & Suckl. P. R. R. Rep. XII. ii. 1860, 145. 

 Blakist. Ibis, 1861, 317. Dresser, Ibis, 1865, 323. Cones, Pr. A. X. 

 S. Phila. 1866, 43 ; Key to X. Am. B. 1872, 212 ; Check List X. Am. 

 B. 1873, 67. Scl. & Salv. Ex. Orn. I. 1869, 170 (foot note) ; Norn. 

 Xeotr. 1873, 129 ; Gray, Hand List. 1. 1869, 170 ; Ridgw. Pr. A. X. S. 

 Phila. 1870, 141; B. N. W., 1875, 334. Adams, Rambles, 1873, 297. 

 Sharpe, Cat. Ace. B. M. 1874, 137. Nisus cooperi, Schl. Rev. Ace. 

 1873, 73. Ridgw. Cat. Falc. Mns. Boston Soc. May, 1873, 19 ; B. B. 

 & R. Hist. N. Am. B. III. 1874, 330. Falco stanleyi, Aud. B. Am. 

 1831, pis. 36, 141 ; Orn. Biog. I. 1831, 186. Cooperastur stanleyi, 

 Bonap. Rev. et Mag. Zool. 1854, 538. Accipiter mexicanus, Swains. 

 F. B. A. II. 1831, 45. Jard. (ed. Wils.) Am. Orn. II. 1832, 215. 

 Bonap. Consp. I. 1850, 32 (sub A. fuscus). Cass. B. Cal. Tex. etc. 

 1854, 96 ; Pr. A. X. S. Phila. 1855, 279 ; B. X. Am. 1858, 17. Strickl. 

 Orn. Syn. I. 1855, 109. Coop. & Suckl. Pac. R. R. Rep. XII. ii. 



1860, 146. Coues, Pr. A. X. S. Phila. 1866, 43. Gray, Hand List, I. 

 1869, 33. Cooper, Orn. Cal. I. 1870, 465. Nisus cooperi var. mexi- 

 canus, Ridgw. Cat. Falc. Mus. Boston Soc. May, 1873, 19 ; B. B. & 

 R. Hist. X. Am. B. III. 1874, 231. "Accipiter pileatus," Strickl. 

 Orn. Syn. I. 1855, 109 (in part not A. pileatusYig. 1824). Northern 

 Falcon, Lath. Gen. Synop. I. 1781, 79, Xo. 62 ( o ad.). Falco hye- 

 malis, j3. Gmel. S. X. I. 1788, 274 (9 ad.). 



Habitat United States, and table-lands of Mexico ; southward 

 (in winter) to Costa Rica and Veragua ; north (in summer), to New 

 Brunswick, the Saskatchewan, and Washington Territory. 



Diagnosis Wing, 8.70-11.00 ; tail, 7.80-10.50 ; culmen, .58-.80; 

 tarsus, 2.30-2.85; middle toe, 1.45-1.85. Fourth or fifth quill 

 longest; first equal to or shorter than tenth; outer five with inner 

 webs sinuated. Tail rounded. Tarsi distinctly scutellate. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



Adult. Above slate-color, varying from a fine bluish to a 

 brownish cast, the shafts of the feather black. Pileum plumbeous- 

 black, the occipital feathers snow-white beneath the surface ; pri- 

 maries plain brownish-slate, their shafts clear brown. Tail nar- 

 rowly tipped with white, and crossed by four very regular, but 

 sometimes not sharply defined, bands of dusky, usually rather 

 narrower than the slaty ones the last broadest, the first nearly 

 obsolete, and concealed by the coverts, which are sometimes nar- 

 rowly tipped with white. Lower parts white and rufous, in trans- 

 verse bars, the shafts of the feathers black, and the rufous bars 

 usually connected along the middle portion of the feathers ; tibiae 

 more deeply colored, the rufous usually predominating ; crissum 

 immaculate white. Lining of the wing white, irregularly spotted 

 with deep rufous; inner webs of the primaries with transverse 

 bands of dusky and white anterior to their emargination and sil- 

 very-gray terminally the dusky bands about seven in number on 

 the longest quill, the two colors nearly equal in width. Bill black 

 terminally, pale blue basally ; cere greenish-yellow; iris orange- 

 red ; tarsi and toes lemon-yellow ; claws black. Male : Slate of the 

 upper parts of a fine bluish cast; nape and sides of the head 

 bluish-ashy, the sides of the breast usually tinged with the same. 

 Wing, 8.85-9.40 ; tail, 7.80-8.30 ; culmen, .60-.68 ; tarsus, 2.30-2.60 ; 

 middle toe, 1.45-1.55. (Eight specimens.) Female: Slate of the 

 upper parts of a brownish cast ; nape and sides of the head dull 

 rusty rufous, the sides of the breast without ashy tinge. Wing, 

 10.10-10.80 ; tail, 9.00-9.40 ; culmen, .70-.80 ; tarsus, 2.G5-2.85 ; 

 middle toe, 1.60-1.85. (Five specimens.) 



Young : Above grayish-brown, the feathers more or less bor- 

 dered with rusty; the scapulars and upper tail-coverts with con- 

 cealed white spots; the occiput blackish, with the bases of the 

 feathers white; and the pileum and nape streaked with rusty. 

 Tail grayish-brown, tipped with whitish, and crossed by four 

 bands of brownish-black or dusky. Lower parts white, longitu- 

 dinally striped with clear dusky brown; the shafts black. Iris 

 varying from greenish-white to chrome-yellow ; bill blackish ter- 

 minally, pale blue basally ; tarsi and toes varying from very pale 

 greenish-yellow to lemon-yellow; claws slate-black. 



Remarks. The extent of individual variation in this species, 

 though very considerable, is limited by the terms of the above 

 diagnosis. Adult males vary as follows : 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



No. 10,086, locality unknown (t} r pe of description of X. 

 cooperi, adult male, in Baird, Brewer, and Ridgway's History 

 North American Birds, vol. III. p. 230): Forehead, crown, and 

 occiput blackish-plumbeous, the latter snowy-white beneath the 

 surface; rest of upper parts slaty-plumbeous, the nape abruptly 

 lighter than the occiput ; feathers of the nape, back, scapulars, 

 and rump with darker shaft-lines; scapulars with concealed cor- 

 date and circular spots of white; upper tail-coverts sharply tipped 

 with white. Tail more brownish than the rump, sharply tipped 

 with pure white, and crossed with three broad, sharply defined 

 bands of black, the first of which is concealed, the last much 

 broadest; that portion of the shaft between the two exposed 

 black bands white. Lores grayish; cheeks and throat white, with 

 fine, hair-like, shaft-streaks of blackish ; ear-coverts and sides of 

 neck more ashy, and more faintly streaked. Ground-color be- 

 neath pure white, but broken by detached transverse bars of rich 

 vinaceous-rufous, crossing the jugulum, breast, sides, flanks, ab- 

 domen, and tibiae; the white bars everywhere (except on sides of 

 the breast) rather exceeding the rufous in width ; all the feathers 

 (except tibial plumes) with distinct black shaft-lines; lower tail- 

 coverts immaculate pure white. Lining of the wing white, with 

 numerous cordate spots of rufous ; under wing-coverts with trans- 

 verse blackish bars ; under side of primaries silvery-white, purest 

 basally (tips dusk}'), crossed with quadrate bars of dusky, of which 

 there are six (the first only indicated) upon the longest quill 

 (fourth). Wing, 9.35 ; tail, 8.30 ; culmen, .68 ; tarsus, 2.45 ; middle 

 toe, 1.55. Fourth quill longest; third shorter than fifth ; second 

 intermediate between sixth and seventh ; first, 2.80 shorter than 

 longest; graduation of tail, 1.00. 



No. 12,024, Ft. Tejon, Cal. ; J. Xantus (t3'pe of description 

 of var. Mexicanus, adult male, in Hist. N. Am. Birds, III. p. 231) : 

 Forehead, crown, and occiput plumbeous-black, feathers of the 

 latter with basal two-thirds snowy-white, partially exposed. 

 Upper plumage deep plumbeous, darkest anteriorly, the back 

 being scarcely lighter than the nape ; rump fine bluish-plumbeous. 

 No concealed white on the upper parts. Tail brownish-plum- 

 beous, narrowly tipped with pure white, and with four sharply 

 defined broad bands of black, the first of which is faintest, and 

 concealed by the coverts, the last broadest ; shafts of tail-feathers 

 deep brown throughout. Primaries and secondaries much darker 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



than the tail, more bluish ; loss so, however, than the scapulars. 

 Lores whitish, quite in contrast with the black of the forehead; 

 cheeks and ear-coverts dark-ashy, slightly washed with reddish, 

 and with obscure darker streaks; chin and throat white, with sparse, 

 hair-like shaft-streaks of black. Breast, abdomen, sides, Hanks, 

 and tibice fine vinaceous-rufous, the feathers (except on tibia?) 

 with fine hair-like shaft-streaks of black ; breast, abdomen, sides, 

 and flanks with pairs of transverse ovoid white spots, not touch- 

 ing the shaft ; on the abdomen the white and rufous bars are of 

 about equal width; on the tibia? the rufous is deepest, and exceeds 

 the white ; anal region barred with rufous, more faintly than the 

 abdomen ; lower tail-coverts immaculate snowy-white. Sides of the 

 neck deep reddish-ash}', this washing the whole side of the breast. 

 Lining of the wing reddish-white, with numerous crowded, cord- 

 ate, somewhat blended spots of rufous ; larger coverts trans- 

 versely spotted with blackish ; under side of primaries silvery-white 

 (blackish for about the terminal inch), crossed with quadrate spots 

 of blackish, of which there are about seven on the longest quill 

 (fourth) ; the basal ones are, however, so much broken, that the 

 number is rather indefinite. Wing, 9.10; tail, 8.20 ; culmen, .65; 

 tarsus, 2. GO ; middle toe, 1.50. 



No. 06,237, Westfield, Massachusetts, October 10, 1846. Yery 

 similar to the preceding (No. 12,024), but even darker, the rufous 

 of the lower parts deeper, and the ashy tinge on the side of the 

 breast still stronger. Wing, 9.20 ; tail, 8.15; culmen, .65 ; tarsus, 

 2.55 ; middle, 1.50. 



No. 6,874, Sacramento Valley, California, differs from the two 

 preceding in having the entire breast barred with rufous and 

 white, instead of having the two sides ashy, the white bars re- 

 stricted to the middle line ; the black of the pileum terminates 

 abruptly on the occiput, and the sides of the neck are tinged with 

 rusty, as in females. Wing, 9.30; tail, 8.15; culmen, .60 ; tarsus, 

 2.45; middle toe, 1.50. It resembles No. 10,086, except that the 

 colors are uniformly of a darker shade throughout. 



No. 2,554 (Mus. R. R.), Washington, D. C, differs from No. 

 10,086, in paler colors, and more delicate shades ; the sides of the 

 breast have a distinct wash of pearby-ash, while the nape is pale 

 bluish-ash, lighter than the back, and abruptly defined against the 

 dark plumbeous crown. Wing, 9.40 ; tail, 8.30 ; culmen, .65 ; 

 tarsus, 2.50; middle toe, 1.55. 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



No. 42,074, Mirador, Mexico, is extremely similar to the last, 

 except that it lacks the ashy tinge on the side of the breast. 

 Wing, 8.85; tail, 7.80; culmen, .65; tarsus, 2.40; middle toe, 

 1.45. Another Mirador specimen (No. 23,809) is exactly similar; 

 it measures : wing, 9.40 ; tail, 8.10 ; tarsus, 2.30 ; middle toe, 1.45 

 nearly the same as the Washington specimen. 



No. 5,841, Puget Sound, October 4, is- exactly similar to No. 

 6,874 (Sacramento Valley), and has, like it, the forehead strongly 

 tinged with dull rusty. Wing, 8.90 ; tail, 8.00 ; culmen, .62 ; tar- 

 sus, 2.45; middle toe, 1.55. 



The adult females differ prett}*- constantly from the males in 

 the much browner upper parts, and rustj^ instead of ashy nape 

 and auriculars though this last feature is a less constant dis- 

 tinction. 



No. 26,588, Washington, D. C. Similar to the male, but the 

 upper parts lacking entirely any bluish cast, and the rufous of the 

 lower parts less vinaceous in tint. Forehead tinged with rusty 

 brown ; neck and auriculars uniform dull rufous, with a rust}* - 

 brown tinge, and sides of the breast entirely destitute of ashy 

 wash. Wing, 10.80; tail, 9.00; culmen, .75; tarsus, 2.65; mid- 

 dle toe, 1.85 ; fourth and fifth quills equal and longest*; third 

 longer than sixth ; second intermediate between sixth and 

 seventh ; first, three inches shorter than the longest. 



No. 57,867, Tehuantepec, S. Mexico (January 8, 1869), is exactly 

 like No. 26,588, except that the tibiae are deeper, and nearly uni- 

 form, rufous. Wing, 10.35; tail, 9.40 ; culmen, .70; tarsus, 2.80 ; 

 middle toe, 1.70. 



No. 55,018, Mazatlan, W. Mexico (February 21), differs in 

 having the rufous bars of the lower parts browner, more sharply 

 defined, and more regularly transverse. Wing, 10.10; tail, 9.30; 

 culmen, .75 ; tarsus, 2.65 ; middle toe, 1.60. 



Two other specimens (No. 5,792, South Carolina, and No. 49,682, 

 Arizona) are very similar in colors to the last ; their measure- 

 ments may be found in the appended table : 



The following detailed descriptions of young birds are of speci- 

 mens typical of the two styles: 



Young male (55,498, Fort Macon, N. C, February ; Dr. Coues, 

 type of var. Gooperi in Hist. N. Am. Birds, III. p. 231): Above 

 grayish-umber, the feathers of forehead, crown, and nape faintly 

 edged laterally with pale rust}'; occiput unvaried blackish, feathers 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



white beneath the surface. Wing-coverts, scapulars, and intersca- 

 pulars narrowly bordered with pale yellowish-umber; rump and 

 upper tail-coverts bordered with rusty. Tail paler umber than 

 the back, narrowly tipped with white, and crossed by four bands 

 of brownish-black, the first of which is only partially concealed. 

 Scapulars and upper tail-coverts showing much concealed white, 

 in form of roundish spots, on both webs. Beneath clear white, 

 without any yellowish tinge; throat with a medial and lateral 

 series of clear dark-brown streaks; jugulum, breast, sides, flanks, 

 and abdomen, with numerous stripes of clear sepia, each showing 

 a darker shaft-streak; tibia? with longitudinal streaks of paler and 

 more rusty brown ; lower tail-coverts immaculate. 



Young female (6876 "Sacramento Valley, Cal. ;" Dr. Heermann 

 probably from Pennsylvania, type in Hist. N. Am. B., III. p. 

 231): Similar to young male; more varied, however. The black 

 middle streaks of feathers of head above narrower, causing more 

 conspicuous streaks; white spots of scapular region considerably 

 exposed; longitudinal stripes beneath narrower and more sparse. 



Young male (Fort Tejon, California, type of var. Mexicanus, 

 torn. cit. 232): Forehead, crown, occiput, and nape, deep rusty- 

 rufous; feathers with broad longitudinal streaks of pure black. 

 Rest of upper parts deep umber, darkest on the back; feathers of 

 back and rump, the upper tail-coverts, scapulars, and wing-coverts, 

 broadly bordered with rusty; scapulars with concealed white spots. 

 Tail ashy-umber, tipped (more broadly than in adult) with ashy- 

 white, crossed by four broad bands of brownish-black ; the last 

 (or subterminal) of which is broadest, the first concealed by the 

 coverts. Secondaries and primaries similar in color to the tail, 

 but darker; the first showing five obsolete darker bands, and 

 tipped (rather broadly) with pale cinnamon-rufous. Far-coverts 

 and cheeks fulvous-white, thickly streaked with dark brown. 

 Lower parts white, washed with ochraceous on jugulum and 

 breast ; each feather with a central longitudinal lanceolate stripe 

 of clear umber, the shaft of each black; these streaks are very 

 narrow on the throat, broadest on the breast and flanks. Tibiae 

 with transversely ovate spots, and transverse bars of reddish- 

 umber; lower tail-coverts with narrow shaft-streaks of darker 

 brown. Lining of wing with cordate and ovate spots of dark 

 brown. 



Young female (42,136, Orizaba, Mexico; M. Botteri, type in 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Hist. N. Am. B., 232): Similar to the young male; feathers of 

 back, etc., less broadly margined with rusty. Ochraceous wash 

 on lower parts more decided; stripes beneath broader and less 

 lanceolate; on the sides broadly ovate, and on the flanks in form 

 of broad transverse bars; tibia? more thickly spotted transversely; 

 lower tail-coverts immaculate. Wing, 9.00 ; tail, 7.80 ; tarsus, 2.25 ; 

 middle toe, 2.50. Fourth quill longest; third shorter than fifth ; 

 second intermediate between sixth and seventh; first, 2.90 shorter 

 than longest. Graduation of tail, .90. 



Although occasional individuals from Mexico lead at first to the 

 impression of a decided difference from the usual st} T le of the 

 eastern United States, the}'' lose their apparently distinctive feat- 

 ures when a large series is brought together for comparison. As 

 a rule, adult males from Mexico agree with each other, and differ 

 from the average style of the same plumage in birds from the 

 eastern United States, in having the rufous of the lower parts in 

 greater amount in proportion to the white, that of the tibiae being 

 often almost unbroken; there is usually also less of concealed 

 white on the scapulars. The most typical example of the so- 

 called A. mexicanus, however, is one from Massachusetts, de- 

 scribed on p. 81. The climatic difference between eastern and 

 western birds of this species is more marked in the } - oung than in 

 the adult plumage, however; and there seems to be great con- 

 stancy in the differences observable. Thus, the western birds are 

 darker colored throughout, the brown markings occupying larger 

 areas, and the white portions of a less pure color, being more or 

 less suffused, or stained with pale ochraceous. The markings on 

 the tibia? are almost always transversely-cordate spots instead of 

 longitudinal streaks. This darker style of plumage is character- 

 istic of the entire Western Province, east to the Missouri Plains ; 

 but along the southern border and in Mexico, birds more like the 

 eastern style seem to prevail. 



Upon the whole, it is found impossible to characterize by tan- 

 gible, and, at the same time, constant characters, two geographical 

 races of this species ; for, while a barely appreciable difference 

 characterizes the majority of the birds of either region, the cases 

 of individuals which correspond in every particular being found 

 in the region of which the}' are not typical are too numerous to 

 warrant the consideration of the two extremes as strictly climatic. 

 It remains, therefore, for us to better class these variations as of 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



85 



an individual nature; and this stand-point is well borne out by the 

 results of careful measurements of specimens from various locali- 

 ties in North America. The following table of measurements 

 shows conclusively that the variations in general size, and rela- 

 tive proportions of the parts, are purely individual. 



Measurements of 39 Specimens of Nisus Cooperi,from various 

 portions of North America. 



Winir. 



Tail 



Cai- 

 rn en. 



Tarsus 



Middle 

 Toe. 



Cat. No 



Museum. 



Locality. 



Adult Males. 



Nat. Mas. 



R. R. 

 Nat. Mus. 



it 



tc 



Aiken 

 Lawrence 



tt 



Washington, D. C. 



Massachusetts. 

 Sacramento Val., Cal. 

 Fort Tejon, Cal. 

 Mirador, Mexico. 



tt tt 



Puget Sound. 

 El Paso, Col. 

 New York. 



Adult Females. 




86 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Wing. 



Tail. 



Cul- 



Tarsus. 



Middle 

 Toe. 



Cat. No 



Museum. 



Locality. 



Young Males. 



Yotjng Females. 



Material examined. National Museum, Washington, 6S speci- 

 mens; Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, 18; American 

 Museum, New York, 3; Boston Society of Natural History, 4; 

 Museum Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Mass., 3; Mus. Gr. N. 

 Lawrence, Esq., 9; W. S. Brewer, Esq., 1; R. Ridgway, 7. Total 

 number of specimens examined, 113. 



Nisus Gundlachi. 



Astur cooperi, Lernb. Av. de la Isla de Cuba, 1850, 17. Caban. Journ. f. 

 Orn., Nov. 1854. Nisus pileatus, Lemb. Av. Cuba, Supplement. 

 Astur pileatus, Gundl. Journ. f. Orn., Nov. 1854. Accipiter gund- 

 lachi, Lawr. Ann. N. Y. Lye. VII. May, 1860, 252. Gundl. Rep., 

 1865, 224. Scl. and Salv., Ex. Orn. I. 170. Gray, Hand List, I. 33, 

 No. 319. Sharpe, Cat. Ac. B. M., 1874, 137 (foot-note). Nisus 

 cooperi var. gundlachi, Ridg., B. B. & R. Hist. N. Am. B. III. 1874, 

 223. 



Diagnosis. Adult male: "Front, crown, and occiput sooty 

 black; upper plumage dull bluish-ash, the feathers of the back 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



with brownish margins ; tail of the same color as the back, partly 

 tinged with dull rufous, and crossed with four brown bars, three 

 of which are imperfect, being but little developed on the outer 

 webs, the outer bar, however, crosses both webs and is narrowlj' 

 tipped with white. Quill feathers brown, having their shafts, as 

 are also those of the tail feathers, reddish-brown ; cheeks dusky 

 ash ; space forward of the eye pale dull rufous; a line of whitish 

 feathers runs alon^ the ed<>e of the crown and extends over the 

 eye; throat ashy-white, tinged with rufous; sides of the neck, 

 upper part of the breast, and a band running to the hind-neck 

 grayish-ash ; lower portion of the breast and upper part of the 

 abdomen rufous, the feathers very narrowly edged with dull white ; 

 lower part of the abdomen of a pale rufous, with transverse bars 

 of dull white. Long feathers of the sides grayish-ash tinged with 

 rufous and destitute of bars or spots ; sides, just above the junc- 

 tion of the tail, plain rufous ; thighs of a bright but rather pale 

 rufous, the feathers having darker submarginal ends, terminating 

 with very narrow edgings of dull white; under wing-coverts and 

 axillars bright rufous barred with white. The feathers of the 

 throat, breast, and sides have their shafts dark brown ; upper tail 

 coverts grayish-ash, lower white ; bill horn-color, with a whitish 

 mark on the tooth and also on the edge of the lower mandible near 

 its base; legs greenish-yellow." 1 



" Length about 18 inches ; wing from flexure 9f ; tail 7f ; tarsus 

 2|." (Lawrence, 1. c.) 



Young male (41,129, Cuba, Dr. Gundlach) : Above dark, 

 blackish vandyke-brown, the feathers bordered inconspicuously 

 with dark rusty ; tail dull slate, narrowly tipped with ashy-white, 

 and crossed with four broad bands of dusky, almost equal to the 

 slate; beneath white, much tinged on breast and tibire with 

 reddish-ochraceous ; thickly striped with umber-brown, except on 

 crissum, the streaks on throat narrow and cuneate, those on 

 breast broad, and on sides changing into broad transverse spots 

 or bars; tibiae thickly spotted transversely with more reddish, 

 nearly rufous, brown ; larger lower tail-coverts with narrow shaft- 

 streaks of black. Occiput showing much concealed white, the 



1 Dr. Gundlach (Lawrence, 1. c. p. 7) adds : Cere and cheeks (*. e. orbits ?) 

 greenish yellow ; feet pale yellow with a greenish hue ; iris red ; length 

 0.457 ; extent 0.807. 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ends of the feathers deep black. Wing, 8. GO ; tail, 7.50; culmen, 

 .68; tarsus, 2.50 ; middle toe. 1.70. 



Young female (41,128, Cuba, Dr. Gundlach): Similar, but more 

 thickly striped beneath, the dark markings about equalling the 

 white in extent ; whole sides with large transverse spots of umber, 

 cuneate along shafts. Wing, 10.50 ; tail, 9.50. 



Remarks In regard to its relationship to its nearest allies N. 

 cooperi and N. pileatus Mr. Lawrence (1. c. p. 8) remarks: " A. 

 very marked feature in the adult of this species is the ash-color of the 

 breast and sides, which does not exist at all in cooperi; the under 

 surface is less marked with white than in that species ; the thighs 

 are of a nearly uniform rufous, which in cooperi are conspicuously 

 barred with white ; in the latter the under wing-coverts are white, 

 with longitudinal spots of rufous-brown, whereas in gundlachi 

 they are rufous barred with white. From A. pileatus, as figured 

 in PI. Col. pi. 205, it is also very different; the adult of that spe- 

 cies has the top of the head dark slate, the upper plumage of a 

 rather light slate-blue; wings, dark slate; tail, with four dark 

 bands, wdiitish between; the under plumage pale wdiitish-blue; 

 thighs, deep rufous; no appearance of bars on any part of the 

 plumage ; under tail-coverts, white ; bill, bluish, under mandible 

 yellow at the base ; legs, yellow." 



In the "History of North American Birds" (III.p. 223, foot-note), 

 this species is considered to be a geographical race of N. cooperi; 

 and Mr. Sharpe, in his great work the "Catalogue of the Accipi- 

 tres, or Diurnal Birds of Pre}', in the collection of the British 

 Museum" (p. 137, foot-note), remarks that it "will probably prove 

 on examination to be identical with the small, richly-colored form 

 of A. cooperi, called by Swainson A. inexicanus.' 1 ' 1 We have 

 shown before that the latter is not entitled to recognition as even 

 a race, though we had previously accorded it that rank, while Mr. 

 Sharpe (torn, cit., p. 137) more properly places it among the syno- 

 nyms of N. cooperi. In regard to the N. gundlachi, the erroneous 

 conclusions of both authors were the result of lack of specimens 

 for comparison, and too hasty examination of published descrip- 

 tions. The description of the adult, copied from the original 

 paper by Mr. Lawrence (Annals of the Lyceum of Natural History 

 of New York, VII., May, I860, p. 252), shows clearly the perfect 

 distinctness of the Cuban species from its North American ally, 

 as well as from all other species of the genus. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



ON THE BUTEONINE SUBGENUS CRAXIREX, GOULD. 

 BY ROBERT RIDGWAY. 



The genus Buteo as restricted 1 is divided primarily into two 

 very distinct groups, one (typical Buteo) having four and the other 

 (Craxirex) having only three of the outer primaries emarginated 

 on their inner webs. The European B. vulgaris, Leach, the type 

 of the genus, belongs to the first group ; its American allies are B. 

 borealis (Gm.), B. harlani (Aud.), B. cooperi, Cass., B. lineatus 

 (Gm.), B. abbreviates, Caban., B. minutes, Pelz., and B. brachyura, 

 Vieill.; while the Old World contains more numerous representa- 

 tives of the subgenus. 2 The subgenus Craxirex is peculiar to 

 America, the majority of the species belonging to the southern 

 continent. North America possesses only C. swainsoni, Bonap., 



1 At present we exclude from the genus Buteo the closely related forms 

 named respectively Heteraetus, Kaup (type Spizaetus melanoleucus, Vieill.), 

 Urubitinga, Lafr. (type Falco urubitinga, Gm. = JJ. zonura [Shaw]), 

 Heterospizias, Sharpe (type Falco meridionalis, Lath.), Antenor, Ridgw. 

 (type Falco unicinctus, Temm.), Buteogallus, Less, (type Falco cequinoc- 

 tialis, Gm.), Leucopternis, Kaup (type Falco melanops, Lath.), Asturina, 

 Vieill. (type Falco nitidus, Lath.), Rupomis, Kaup (type Falco magniros- 

 tris, Gm.), OnycJwtes, Ridgw. (type 0. gruberi, Ridgw.), Urubitornis, 

 Verr. (type Circaetus solitarius, Tschudi), and Harpy haliaetus, Lafr. (type 

 Harpyia coronata, Vieill.). Busarellus, Lafr. (type Falco nigricollis, 

 Lath.), placed in most of the systems in close proximity to Buteogallus, and 

 often in the same genus, we consider to be far removed from any of the 

 above genera, being more closely related to the Haliaetine forms, especially 

 to Oypoictinia, Kaup (type Buteo melanosternon, Gould), of Australia. 



2 The synonymy of this subgenus is as follows : 



Buteo, Cuvier, Lee. Anat. Comp. I., tabl. Ois. 1800 (type, Falco buteo, Linn., 



= B. vulgaris, Leach). 

 Butaquila, Hodgs., Gray's Zool. Misc. 1844, 81 (type, Falco ferox, Gm.). 

 Buteola, Bonap., Comp. Rend. XLL, 1855, 651 (type, Buteo brachyura, 



Vieill.). 

 Pterolestes, Sund., Disp. Ac. Hemeroharp., 1874,23 (types, Falco jakal, 



Daud., and Buteo augur, Rupp.). 

 B. {Craxirex) Swainsoni has been usually regarded as the American 

 analogue of the B. vulgaris, of Europe ; but B. lineatus is, in reality, the 

 nearest New World relative of the latter, agreeing very closely in size, pro- 

 portions, and details of structure, though very different in color. B. borealis 

 is also strictly congeneric with these two typical species. 

 7 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



and C. pennsylvanicus (Wils.), except in the southern portion ; 

 but Middle and South America have in addition to these (which 

 are there winter migrants from the north), C. albicaudatus (Vieill.), 

 G. erylhronotus (King), G. poliosomus (Quoy and Gaim.), and G. 

 galapagoensis, Gould. 



Among the species composing the subgenus Graxirex there is 

 considerable variation in proportions and size, though nothing of 

 greater than specific importance, since no two are exactly alike in 

 the details of form. G. swainsoni and C. albicaudatus have very 

 long wings, reaching nearly to the end of the tail ; but the latter has 

 a conspicuously longer and thicker tarsus than the former; G. 

 erythronotus agrees wonderfully with C. albicaudatus in its colors 

 and changes of plumage, but in form it is intermediate between 

 that species and G. poliosomus. On the other hand, there is quite 

 a contrast between the great G. galapagoensis and the little C. 

 pennsylvanicus : still, in the subgeneric character of only three 

 primaries emarginated, even tail, etc., they all strictly agree. 

 Several names have been invented to designate these variations 

 of form, but they are not admissible. The synonymy of the sub- 

 genus stands as follows: 



Graxirex, Gould, Darwin's Voyage of the Beagle, Birds, 1841, 22 (type, 



Polyborus galapagoensis, Gould). 

 Tacliytriorchis, Kaup, Classif. Saiig. Vog., 1844, 143 (type, Falco pteroeles, 



Teuim., =Buteo albicaudatus, Vieill.). 

 Pacilopternis, Kaup, Isis, 1847, 329 (type, Falco pennsylvanicus, Wilson). 



Authors have been exceedingly inconsistent in regard to the 

 classification of the American Buteones. Thus, one of our latest 

 and best authorities, Mr. Sharpe, 1 places G. albicaudatus and 

 Buteo abbreviatus together in the so-called genus " Tachytriorchis" 

 (=Craxirex, Syn.), composed, according to his arrangement, 

 solel} r of these two species. The latter of these, however, belongs 

 to the group having four primaries emarginated, and is, conse- 

 quent^, and for other reasons, a true Buteo. The incongruity of 

 arrangement is still further increased by the placing of C. gala- 

 pagoensis, G. poliosomus, G. erythronotiis, C. albicaudatus, G. 

 swainsoni, and C. pennsylvanicus in the genus Buteo (as sepa- 

 rated from " Tachy trior chis"), and scattered among species of no 



1 Catalogue of the Accipitres, or Diurnal Birds of Prey, in the collec- 

 tion of the British Museum. By R. Bowdler Sharpe, London, 1874. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 9] 



near affinity, while Heteraetus melanoleucus (Vieill.) heads the 

 list! Messrs. Sclater & Salvin, in their "Nomenclator Avium Neo- 

 tropicalium" 1 (pp. 118-119), include all the species of Buteo and 

 Graxirex in the genus Buteo, with the exception of B. brachyura, 

 which is assigned to the special genus u Buteola," a procedure 

 which is entirely unwarranted by the characters of the bird. Mr. 

 Gray, in his "Hand List of Birds" 2 (I., pp. 6-9), makes the distinc- 

 tion between the subgenus Buteo (as he restricts it) and its allies 

 strictly a geographical one, no true Buteo belonging, according 

 to his classification, to the American continent. The subgenus 

 Graxirex is made to include, besides the appropriate species, 

 Buteo borealis, B. lineatus, B. cooperi, and Anterior unicinctus I 

 The subgenus " Tachytriorchis" contains B.leucops ( = C. gala- 

 pagoensis,juv.), B. abbreviatus (given in the list as " 63 albonota- 

 <ms" and " 65 zonocercus"), besides B. u pterocles" (= albicaudatus), 

 B. erythronotus, and B. poliosomus, which are true Craxireces. 



Having thus explained the proper limits of the subgenus 

 Graxirex, I now present a synopsis of the species, briefly show- 

 ing the distinguishing characters of each. 



Synojjsis of Sjyecies. 



A. Wing very long, the tips of the primaries reaching nearly or 

 quite to the end of the tail. Tail of young crossed b} r very 

 numerous (eleven to seventeen) very narrow and indistinct 

 bars of dusky. Size, large (wing more than 12.00 inches). 



a. Tail of adult grayish-brown, tipped with fulvous, and crossed 



with thirteen bars of blackish. 



1. G. galapagoensis. Bill very large, much elongated, with 

 its horizontal outlines nearly parallel. Adult. Sooty-black, 

 the primaries glossed with ashy and barred with blackish- 

 brown, and the lining of the wing tinged with rufous. 

 Wing, 15.15-17.30; tail, 9.20-11.00; culmen, 1.25; tarsus, 

 2.65-3.35; middle toe, 2.10. Hab. Galapagos Islands. 



b. Tail of adult white, crossed by narrow lines of slate-gray and 



with a very broad subterminal band of slate-black. 



2. G. poliosomus. Bill smaller, less elongated, and with the 

 upper outline more ascending basally. Adult. Bluish-slate; 

 lores whitish ; tail-coverts white, barred and mottled with 



! London, 1873. 2 London, 1869. 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



slate; secondaries slate-gray, tipped with white. Wing, 

 15.00-18.10; tail, 9.00-10.50; culmen, 1.00; tarsus, 3.25-3.55 ; 

 middle toe, 1.50-1.90. Hab. Chile, Patagonia, Tierra del 

 Fuego, and Falkland Islands. 



3. C. erythronotus. Adult. Above plumbeous, below white. 

 % Above entirely uniform plumbeous. 9 . Back and scapu- 

 lars bright rufous. Wing, 14.25-18.50; tail, 7.30-10.00; 

 culmen, .80-.100 ; tarsus, 2.95-3.50 ; middle toe, 1.30-1.50. 

 Hab. From Peru southward along the Pacific slope of South 

 America to the Falkland Islands. 



4. G. albicaudatus. Adult. Above dark plumbeous ; rump 

 and lower parts white ; throat, plumbeous-black. % . Lesser 

 wing-coverts with a very restricted patch of rufous along 

 the anterior edge ; longer scapulars, distinctly tinged with 

 rufous. 9 . Rufous patch on lesser coverts extended over 

 nearly the whole area of the region ; longer scapulars scarcely 

 tinged with rufous. Wing, 14.50-18.50 ; tail, 5.50-10.50 ; 

 culmen, .95-1.05; tarsus, 3.30-3.70; middle toe, 1.55-1.80. 

 Hab. Eastern South America, from Paraguay to Columbia ; 

 both sides of Middle America, from Panama northward to 

 Colima, City of Mexico, and Mirador. 



c. Tail grayish-brown, sometimes with a hoary cast, crossed by 

 about nine or ten very indistinct narrow bars of dusky. 



5. C. sivainsoni. Above nearly uniform dusky-brown ; be- 

 neath sometimes wholly uniform dark chocolate-brown, or 

 sooty-brown, but usually with a white throat patch, a uni- 

 form brown (9) or rufous (% ) pectoral area, behind which 

 the ground color is lighter, usually with transverse bars or 

 spots of darker shades of brown or rufous. Wing, 12.00- 

 17.25; tail, 8.00-9.80; culmen, .80-.95 ; tarsus, 2.30-2.90; 

 middle toe, 1.40-1.70. Hab. North America, except the 

 eastern forest district ; in winter migrating southward 

 through Middle and South America as far as Patagonia. 



B. Wing short, the tips of the primaries reaching only to the 



middle of the tail. Tail of young crossed by only five to seven 



wide bars of dusky. Size small (wing less than 12.00 inches). 



//. Tail of adult black, crossed by two to four wide bands of 



light brownish-gray or brownish-white (the last broadest) 



and narrowly tipped with white. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



6. G. pennsylvanicus. Adult. Above nearl}' uniform dusky- 

 brown, darker on the back; below dull rufous-brown, much 

 broken, especially posteriorly, by transverse spotting of 

 white. Wing, 9.85-11.40 ; tail, 6.50-8.00 ; culmen, .70-.78 ; 

 tarsus, 2.15-2.80; middle toe, 1.20-1.40. Hab. Eastern 

 Province of North America, and Cuba; in winter migrating 

 southward through West Indies and eastern Middle America 

 to upper Amazonia and Columbia. 



1. Buteo (Craxirex) galapagoensis. 



Polyborus galapagoensis, Gould, P. Z. S. 1837, 9. Craxirex galapagoensis, 

 Gould, Zool. Beagle, pt. 3, 1841, 23, pi. 2. Gray, Gen. 2 ; ed. 2, 3 ; 

 List Gen. and Subg. Brit. Mus. 2. Bonap. Consp. 1850, 34. Buteo 

 galapagoensis, Gray, List B. Brit. Mus. 1844, 18; Gen. fol. 1849, 12, 

 sp. 12 ; Hand List, I. 18G9, 7. Strickl. Orn. Syn. I. 31. Sund. P. Z. 

 S. 1871, 125, 127. Scl. & Salv. Norn. Neotrop. 1873, 119. Sharpe, 

 Cat. Ac. B. M. 1874, 170. Dromolestes galapagoensis, Sund. Disp. 

 Ace. Henieroharp. 1874, 27. Buteo leucops, Gray, Cat. Ace. 1848, 

 3G ; Weigm. Arch. XVI.vl850. Bonap. Consp. 1850, 17. Pcecilop- 

 ternis infulattis, Kaup. Contr. Orn. 1850, 76. 



Habitat. Galapagos Islands, only. 



Description. "Adult male (t} r pe of species): Everywhere sooty 

 black, with a brownish shade, especially distinct on the wing- 

 coverts ; quills black, the secondaries browner, and tipped with 

 buffy white, the primaries externally shaded with aslw, all barred 

 with blackish-brown, more distinctly below, where the interspaces 

 are dull ashy-white ; tail grayish-brown, tipped with fulvous, and 

 crossed with thirteen blackish bars, the subterrainal one slightly 

 the broadest ; under surface of the body sooty black, with a clearer 

 shade of brown, more distinct on the under wing-coverts, which 

 are also tinged with rufous. Total length 20.50 inches, culmen, 

 1.7. ; wing, 15.15 ; tail, 9.2 ; tarsus, 2.85." (Sharpe, 1. c.) 



Young (specimens in the Museum of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia) : (1) Tail brownish-gray, fading narrowty 

 into whitish at the tip, and crossed by about eleven narrow, rather 

 distinct, bands of black. Prevailing color blackish-brown, the head, 

 neck, and lower parts variegated with pale ochraceous, chiefly in 

 the form of a basal spotting, most exposed on the head, neck, and 

 breast. Tail coverts barred transversely with ochraceous-white. 

 Wing, 16.80; tail, 10.70; culmen, 1.25; tarsus, 2.65; middle toe, 

 2.10. Fourth quill longest ; first shorter than seventh. (2) Tail 

 brownish-gray, with a hoary cast, faintly whitish at the tip, and 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



crossed by more than eleven narrow and very indistinct bands of 

 dusky ; inner webs reddish-white. Prevailing color above brownish- 

 black, with a purplish cast ; head, neck, and lower parts ochraceous- 

 white. Dorsal region and wing-coverts much variegated longi- 

 tudinally with deep ochraceous; head and neck streaked with 

 black ; lower parts spotted with dark purplish-brown ; tibiae with 

 sparse, longitudinally-sagittate, markings of the same. Tail- 

 coverts (upper and lower) very distinctly barred transversely. 



2. Buteo (Craxirex) poliosomus. 



Falco polyosoma, Quoy. & Gahn. Voy. Uran. Ois. 1824, 92, pi. 14. Astur 

 polyosoma, Cuv. Reg. An. I. 1829, 332. Buteo poliosomit, Less. 

 TraitS, 1831, 82. Btrickl. Orn. Syn. I. 1855, 219. Scl. P. Z. S. 1860, 

 384. Abbott, Ibis. 1861, 151. Scl. & Salv. Norn. Neotrop. 1873, 119. 

 Buteo poliosoma, Sharpe, Cat. Ace. B. M. 1874, 171. ? Buteo cen- 

 tralis, Gould, P. Z. S. 1837, 10. Darwin, Zool. Beag. pi. 3, 27. 

 Gray, Gen. (sub. borealis) sp. 6. Bonap. Consp. 19. Strickl. Orn. 

 Syn. I. 31. Cass. Expl. Exp. Orn. 1858, 94, pi. 3, fig. 2 ( o jus. ?) 

 Buteo varius, Gould, P. Z. S. 1837, 10 Darw., Zool. Beag. 1841, 26. 

 Cass. Expl. Exp. Orn. 1858, 92, pi. 3, f. 1 ($ jus.). Peale, Expl. 

 Exp. Orn. 61. ?Scl. P. Z. S. 1860, 384. 



Habitat. Chili, Patagonia, Tierra del Fuego, and Falkland 

 Islands. 



Description. Adult. " Bluish slate-color above and below, a 

 little clearer about the head and throat ; lores whitish ; upper and 

 under tail-coverts white, with slaty-gray cross bars and mottlings 

 of the same color ; tail white crossed with about nine narrow 

 bands of slaty-gray, and a very broad subterminal band of slaty- 

 black ; primaries black, externally shaded with silvery-gray, the 

 secondaries entirely slaty-gray like the back, tipped with white ; 

 primaries white at base of inner web, with remains of dusky slate- 

 colored bars. Total length 22 inches; culmen, 1.4; wing, 15.25 ; 

 tail, 8.5; tarsus, 3.4." (Sharpe, 1. c.) 



"Female (? in changing plumage) : All over blackish slate-color, 

 excepting the hinder neck, the entire mantle and upper scapulars, 

 the centre of the breast, extending on to the chest and centre of 

 the abdomen, all these rufous portions of the body more or less 

 obscured with slate-color ; quills black, silvery-gray near the base, 

 barred with black; inner face of quills ashy-white, with a few 

 dusky crossbars ; lower back, rump, and upper tail-coverts ashy, 

 the former slightly washed with rufous ; tail ashy-white, with 

 about nine narrow bars and a broad subterminal band of slate- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



color, less distinct below. Total length 22.5 inches, culmen 1.75, 

 wing 15, tail 9, tarsus 3.50." (Sharpe, 1. c.) 



Young (from specimens in the United States National Mnseum): 

 Tail brownish-gray, with more or less of a hoary cast, usually 

 passing into grayish-white at the tip, and crossed by very numer- 

 ous (more than fifteen) narrow, rather indistinct, somewhat oblique, 

 bars of dusky becoming gradually obsolete basally, and very 

 oblique on the inner webs. Upper parts blackish-brown, varie- 

 gated with deep ochraceous, especially on the wing-coverts, sca- 

 pulars, and upper tail-coverts ; head streaked with the same ; 

 secondaries and primaries obscurely banded with dusky and 

 fading into paler at tips. Lower parts ochraceous, the jugulum, 

 breast, and sides longitudinally striped with blackish ; sides tinged 

 with rust} r ; tibiae and crissum transversely spotted, or barred, with 

 rufous ; a more thickly spotted belt across the abdomen and flanks. 

 Inner webs of primaries pure white anterior to their emargination, 

 and immaculate, or very faintly barred. Wing, 15.50-18.10 ; tail, 

 9.30-10.50 ; culmen, 1.00 ; tarsus, 3.25-3.55 ; middle toe, 1.50-1.90. 



Remarks. We are inclined to regard the plumage described 

 by Mr. Sharpe as the female in changing plumage, as being 

 in reality the adult female in full dress. A specimen in the 

 U. S. National Museum corresponds quite closely except that it 

 is still more rufous, and has the tail as in the young plumage 

 (described above) with the exception of a single feather of the new 

 moult. This specimen (No. 68,309, Nat. Mus., Chile?), which is 

 unmistakably in transition plumage, may be described as follows: 

 Tail dull gray, with a perceptible hoary wash, crossed by an indis- 

 tinct subterminal band (about .50 wide), and by very numerous 

 (more than fifteen) narrow bars of darker; these bars most distinct 

 on the inner webs, which are white to a greater or less distance 

 from their inner edge ; shafts pure white, except terminally ; remiges 

 dull slaty, with a hoary cast, paler (not white) at tips, and crossed 

 b}' numerous, distinct, narrow bands of blackish ; wing-coverts 

 more dusky, and more or less variegated with rusty. General color 

 of the plumage rusty chestnut, much broken by lighter (ochraceous) 

 and darker (brownish-black) spotting and barring the former 

 color mostly marginal or terminal, the latter central on the 

 feathers ; the chestnut is deepest and most uniform ou the back, 

 lesser wing-coverts, and abdomen ; the ochraceous prevails across 

 the breast, while on the scapulars the black transverse bars pre- 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



dominate ; on the head the pi'edominant color is black, the feathers 

 being merely edged laterally with rufous; on the cheeks the black 

 is nearly uniform. Lining of the wing rich chestnut the rufous 

 broken by darker and lighter spotting ; inner webs of primaries 

 ash-gra} r , with indistinct, very narrow, deeper-gra}', oblique bars. 1 



The tail-feather (middle one) of the new moult, completely 

 grown, is colored as follows: The prevailing color is silvery-gray, 

 but this changes gradually to white along the shaft, but toward 

 the end this gives way to a subterminal band of deep black, about 

 one inch wide, and distant half an inch from the end; the re- 

 mainder, or gray portion of the feather, is crossed by about 

 twelve narrow, zigzag bars of deeper gray, these becoming gradu- 

 ally more indistinct basally, where they are broken into a con- 

 fused mottling. 



A young male, supposed to be from Chile (No. 1624, Museum of 

 the Wesleyan University, Micldletown, Connecticut) is colored as 

 follows: Tail dull brownish-gray to the tip, crossed by numerous 

 (more than fifteen) narrow bars of dusky; remiges dull brownish- 

 slate, distinctly banded with bars of dusk} T black; rest of upper 

 parts nearly uniform blackish-brown, slightly variegated (more 

 heavily on upper tail-coverts) with ocbraceous. Head blackish- 

 brown, faintly edged with ochraceous, with a large, plain, ochra- 

 ceous area on the auricular region. Lower parts (except throat) 

 ochraceous-white, with sharply -defined, broad, longitudinal stripes 

 of blackish-brown ; tibise with irregular hastate spots of rufous ; 

 crissum with sparser, finer markings of the same. Lining of the 

 wing ochraceous-white, with large but not crowded spots of brown- 

 isb-black ; inner webs of primaries white, marbled along the edge 

 with slate. 



Material examined. U. S. National Museum, Washington, 4. 



3. Buteo (Craxirex) erythrcmotus. 



Haliaetus erythronotus, King, Zool. J. III., 1827, 424; Voy. Beag. I., 532. 

 Buteo erythronotus, Darwin, Zool. Beag. 1841, 26. Gray, Gen. 

 fol. sp. 9; List B. Brit. Mus. 35. Hand List, I., 1809, 8. Bridg., 

 P. Z. S. pt. 11, 109; Ann. N. H. XIII., 499. Jard., Edin. Phil. J., 

 n. s. II., 117. Strickl. Orn. Syn. I. 1855, 34. Scl. P. Z. S. 1860, 384 ; 

 Ibis, 1860, 25, pi. 1, f. 3. Abbot, Ibis, 1861, 151. Scl. and Salv., Nom. 



1 This is the character of the quills of the new moult ; several old ones, 

 which were not cast, are pure white instead of ash, the bars of the same 

 shade as in the new feathers. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 91 



Neot. 1873, 119. Sharpe, Cat. Ace. B. M. 1874, 172. Taehytriorehis 

 erythronotus, Bonap., consp. 17. Pceciloptemis erythronotus, Kaup, 

 Contr. Orn. 1850, 76. Bonap. Consp. I., 1850, ll.Aquila braccata, 

 Meyen, Beitr, 1834, Q5. Buteo bracchatus, Pelz. Verb., z.-b. "Wien, 

 1862, 12. Buteo tricolor, D'Orb. et Lafr. Syn. Av. 1838, 6. D'Orb. 

 Voy. Am. Merid. 1840, 69, 106, pi. 30. Buteo unicolor, D'Orb. et 

 Lafr. 1. c. p. 7 ' .Bypomorphnus leucurus, Lafr. R. Z. 1849, 338. 

 Buteo polyosoma, Schl. Mus. P.-B. Buteones 1862, 12; Rev. Ace. 

 1873, 109 (not of Quoy and Gaim !). 



Habitat. Pacific slope of South America, from Peru to Falk- 

 land Islands; Chile; Patagonia, on both coasts, up to 40. 



Diagnosis. Dimensions. Wing, 14.25-16.30; tail, 7.30-9.00; 

 culmen, .83-1.00 ; tarsus, 2.95-3.50 ; middle toe, 1.30-1.50. Form: 

 Third or fourth quill longest ; first intermediate between eighth 

 and ninth. Tail even in the adult, slightly rounded in the young. 

 Color: Adult, tail pure white (the lateral feathers scarcely 

 tinged with ash), crossed near the end by a subterminal band of 

 uniform black about 1.00 wide ; the white portion crossed by 

 fine lines or narrow bars of plumbeous. Above, including the 

 rump, and sides of the neck, mostly or wholly uniform plumbe- 

 ous ; throat, cheeks, and rest of lower parts pure white, the sides 

 (always), frequently the abdomen and usually the tibiae more or 

 less barred with plumbeous. %. Upper parts entirely uniform 

 plumbeous, without any rufous. ?. Back and scapulars uniform 

 bright rufous. Young. Tail hoary ash, uniform, or growing 

 gradually paler basally, with a narrow dusky subterminal band, 

 and narrowly barred to the base with dusky, these bars sometimes 

 nearly obsolete or broken into an irregular mottling. Above 

 blackish-brown, much variegated, especially on the wing-coverts, 

 scapulars and upper tail-coverts, with ochraceous or rufous. 

 Lower parts ochraceous or ochraceous-white, the middle of the 

 breast usually inmaculate, but the sides of the breast, the sides 

 and the abdomen marked with broad transverse bars of rusty or 

 longitudinally cuneate spots of brownish-black ; the breast some- 

 times with narrow streaks of the same ; tibiae and crissum with 

 narrower rusty bars, or hastate spots. 



Remarks. In the adult there is sometimes an entire absence 

 of bars on the white portion of the tail. One adult female has a 

 few rufous feathers on the sides of the breast. 



A young male is marked as follows : 



Tail hoary ash, narrowly barred to the base with darker, and 




98 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



with a narrow subterminal dusky band. Upper parts blackish- 

 brown, much variegated, especially on the wing-coverts, scapulars, 

 and upper tail-coverts, with reddish-ochraceous or rufous. Lower 

 parts deep ochraceous, the sides of the breast, sides, and abdomen, 

 with large, longitudinal, cuneate spots of brownish-black ; middle 

 of the breast with narrow lines of the same ; tibia? and crissum 

 with large hastate spots of rusty. Young ?. Tail whitish-ash, 

 becoming paler basalty, mottled with darker and with a badly de- 

 fined subterminal band of dusky. Entire back and scapulars plain 

 bright rufous, and the wiug-coverts, rump, upper tail-coverts, and 

 head and neck, much tinged with the same. 



A young female in Mr. Lawrence's collection differs only in the 

 coloration of the lower parts, the ground-color of which is ochra- 

 ceous-white ; the pectoral area is immaculate ; the abdomen, sides, 

 flanks, tibiae, and crissum are barred with rusty the bars nar- 

 rower on the tibia?, and more distant on the crissum; there is a 

 distinct rictal " moustache" of black. 



Material examined. U. S. National Museum, 7 ; Mus. Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 4; Mus. Comparative Zoology, 

 Cambridge, 2 ; Mus. Boston Society of Natural History, 3 ; Mus. 

 G. N. Lawrence, Esq., 1. Total number of specimens examined, 16. 



Measurements. 



4. Buteo (Craxirex) albicaudatus. 



Aquila coliblanca Azara, Apunt. I. 1802, 69. Buteo albicaudatus, Vieill., 

 N. D. IV. 1816, 477. Pucher. Rev. et Mag. 1850, 87. Strickl. Orn. 

 Syn. I., 1855, 35. TachytriorcMs albicaudatus, Sharpe, Cat. Ace. 

 B. M. 1874, 162. Spizaetus leucurus, Vieill., N. D. XXXII. 1819, 

 59. Buteo leucurus, Lafr., R. Z. 1849, 100. Falco pterocles, Temm., 

 PI. Col. I., 1823, pis. 56 (adult), and 139 (young). Buteo pterocles, 

 Less., Man. I., 1828, 103. Gray, Gen. I., 1849, 12; Hand List, I., 

 1869, 8. Caban. Schom. Reise in B. Gui. III., 1848, 739. Burm. 

 Th. Bras. II. 1855, 49. Schl. Mus. P.-B., Buteones, 1863, 13; Rev. 

 Ace. 1873, 110. Pelz. Orn. Bras., 1871, 3, 396. Scl. and Salv. Norn. 

 Neot., 1873, 119. Tachytriorchs pterocles, Kaup, Class. Saiig. Vog., 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



1844, 123; Contr. Orn. 1850, 75. Bon. Consp. I., 1850, Vt.Buteo 

 albieauda, Less, Traite, 1831, 81, pi. 15. Pucheran, R. et M. Zool. 

 1850, 214. Buteo tricolor, Kuril., Ind. Azara, 1841, 1 (not of D'Orb.). 



Habitat. The whole of Middle America, north to Mirador (on 

 the eastern side), Colima (west coast) and the City of Mexico 

 (central plateau); eastern South America as far as Paraguay. 



Diagnosis. Wing, 14.50-18.00; tail, 1. 70-10.50; culmen, .95- 

 1.05; tarsus, 3.30-3.70; middle toe, 1.55-1.80. Form: Third quill 

 longest; first intermediate between sixth and eighth. Tail even in 

 adult, slightly rounded in young. Color: Adult, tail white (the 

 lateral feathers much tinged with ash), crossed by a broad subter- 

 rninal band of black; the white portion crossed by faint lines or 

 narrow bars of plumbeous. Above dark plumbeous; rump and 

 lower parts pure white; throat plumbeous-black, or bluish-plum- 

 beous. Flanks, rump, and lining of the wing usually faintlj' barred 

 with ashy, dusky, or rufous. %: Lesser wing-coverts with a re- 

 stricted patch of rufous on the anterior portion; longer scapulars 

 strongly tinged with rufous. 9: Rufous patch on lesser wing- 

 covert region extended over nearly the whole of its area; longer 

 scapulars scarcely tinged with rufous. Young: Tail hoary grayish 

 (the inner webs mostly white), growing gradually darker termin- 

 ally, and passing narrowly into dull whitish or rufous at tip; 

 crossed with numerous narrow and very obscure bars of darker, 

 these growing gradually obsolete towards the base. 1 General 

 color brownish-black, the lower parts more or less variegated 

 (most conspicuously on the posterior portions, and on middle of 

 the breast) with ochraceous or whitish. 



Remarks. The identity of specimens of the two plumages de- 

 scribed in the diagnosis as " adult" and " young" is proven by 

 specimens in which part of the tail feathers are of one plumage 

 and part of the other. Such a specimen is in Mr. Lawrence's col- 

 lection from the city of Mexico. 



The older individuals in the immature dress are colored as 

 follows : Tail hoary ash, growing darker terminally, and passing 

 narrowly into brownish-white at the tip the inner webs mostly 

 white; the terminal half with just descernible obscure bars of 

 darker, these becoming gradually obsolete on the basal half; 

 sometimes they are entirely obsolete for the full length of the 

 outer webs. Upper tail-coverts pure white, usually immaculate, 



1 These bars are sometimes entirely obsolete on the outer webs. 




100 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



but sometimes barred ; inner webs of primaries ashy, the two or 

 three outer ones more whitish, and sometimes barred with dusky. 

 In males, the middle of the breast, the tibiae and crissum, are usu- 

 ally ochraceous irregularly spotted with brownish-black. 



The darker-colored individuals in this stage are distinguishable 

 from the dark examples of the young of C. swainsoni only by the 

 very much stouter and longer tarsi. 



The adults vaiy but little. The white of the jugulum usually 

 reaches forward medially into the plumbeous of the throat, and in 

 one ($ ad. Tehuantepec, Mexico; Sumichrast) it extends inter- 

 ruptedly, however to the chin. Another male from the same 

 localit} T has the scapulars almost entirely rufous, with black shaft- 

 streaks. The white of the lower parts in the adult is of a pure- 

 ness and continuity strikingly characteristic of this species. 



A very young specimen from Paraguay has the tail more 

 brownish, more distinctly barred, and more ochraceous on the tip ; 

 the upper tail-coverts are ochraceous marked with broad crescentic 

 bars of blackish, and the upper parts generally are variegated 

 with ochraceous. 



Material examined. U. S. National Museum, 12; Museum of 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 6 ; Museum of 

 G-. N. Lawrence, Esq., 1 ; other specimens, 1 4. Total number of 

 specimens examined, 23. 



Measurements. 



5. Buteo (Craxirex) Swainsoni. 



t ? ? Buteo cinereus, Vieill., Ois. Am. Sept. 1807. ''Buteo vulgaris,'''' 

 Swains. & Rich., F. B. A. II., 1831, 41, pi. 27 (adult). Jard. (ed. 

 Wils.), Am. Orn., II., 1838, 56. Brewer (ed. Wils.), Am. Orn., 303. 

 Synop., 1852, 684. Buteo swainsoni, Bonap., Comp. List., 1838, 3 ; 



1 These are specimens collected on the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, by Pro- 

 fessor F. Sumichrast, and not entered in the Register of the National 

 Museum. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 101 



Consp., 1850, 19; Pr. Ac. Nat, Sc. Phil., 1855, 280. Heerm., Pac. 

 R. R. Rep., II., 1855, 32. Cassin, Pr. A. N. S. Phil., 1855, 280; 

 B. Cal., Tex., etc., 1855, 98 ; B. N. Am., 1858, 19, pi. XIII. Strickl., 

 Orn. Syn., I., 1855, 30. Gamb., Jour. Ac. N. Sci. Phil., 18 I., 27. 

 Blakist., Ibis, 1861, 317 (eggs). Pelz. Verb. z.-b. Wien, 1862, 150. 

 Dresser, Ibis, 1865, 324 (Texas). Coues, Prod., 1866, 9 ; Key, 1872, 

 217 ; Am. Nat., 1874 (habits). Gray, Hand List, I., 1869, 7. Coop., 

 B. Cal., 1870, 476. Ridgw., Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1870, 142 ; B. 

 B. & R., Hist. N. Am. B., III., 1874, 263 ; Pr. Boston Soc. N. H., 

 May, 1873, 27. Sci. & Salv., Nom. Neotr., 1873, 119. #(^0 mon- 

 tanus, Nutt., Man. I., 1840, 112. Buteo bairdii, Hoy, Pr. Ac. 

 Nat. Sci. Philad., 1853, 451 (young). Cassin, B. Cal., Tex., etc., 



1854, pi. XLI. ; B. N. Am., 1858, 21. Strickl., Orn. Syn., I., 1855, 

 37. Gray, Hand List, I., 1869, 8. Buteo insignatus, Cass., B. Cal., 

 Tex., etc., 1854, 102, pi. XXXI. (melanistic phase) ; B. N. Am., 

 1858, 23. Heerm., Pac. R. R. Rep., VII., 1857, 31. Strickl., Orn. 

 Syn., I., 1855, 38. Sci., P. Z. S., 1856, 285. Coues, Pr. Ac. Nat. 

 Sci. Philad., 1866, 45. Bryant, Pr. Boston Soc. N. H., X., 1865, 90. 

 Sci., Ibis, I., 216 (Guatemala). Gray, Hand List, I., 1869, 8. Cooper, 

 Orn. Cal., I., 1870, 474. Buteola insignata, Bonap., Comp. Rend., 

 XLIL, 1856, 956. Buteo oxypterus, Cass., Pr. Ac. Nat. Sc, VII., 



1855, 282 (young) ; B. N. Am., 1858, 30, pi. 15, fig. 2. Strickl., Orn. 

 Syn., I., 1855, 28. Coues, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Philad., 1866, 45 ; Key, 

 1872, 218. Gray, Hand List, I., 1869, 8. Cooper, Orn. Cal., I., 1870, 

 480. Buteo swainsoni var. oxypterus, Ridgw., B. B. & R. Hist. N. 

 Am. B., III., 1874, 266. Buteo fuliginosiis, Sci., Pr. Zool. Soc, 

 Lond., 1858, 356 ; Trans. Zool. Soc, 1858, 267, pi. LXII. ( ad., mela- 

 nistic phase). Cass., B. N. Am., 1858, pi. 15, fig. 1. Salv., Ibis, 

 1860, 401. Gray, Hand List, I., 1869, 7. Ridgw., Pr. Ac Nat. Sci. 

 Philad., Dec. 1870, 142. Buteo gutturalis, Max., Caban. Journ., VI., 

 1858, 17 (eggs). "Buteo Jiarlani, Aud." Bryant, Pr. Boston Soc. N. 

 H. VIII., 1862, 115 " Buteo albonotatus, Kaup," Lawr. Ann. N. 

 Y. Lye IX., April, 1868, 133 (nee Kaup). "Buteo albicaudatus, 

 Vieill.,' 1 Sci., P. Z. S., 1869, 634, No. 22 (Buenos Ayres). Buteo 

 obsoletus, Sharpe, Cat. Ace Brit. Med., 1874, 184 (nee Falco obsoletus, 

 Gm., 1788 !). 



Habitat. Found chiefly in the Western Province of North 

 America, where it is a very abundant species, but an occasional 

 visitant to portions of the Eastern Province (chiefly north of the 

 Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence River), and straggling into 

 South America, as far as Patagonia. All portions of the Western 

 Province of North America, from Mazatlan, Mexico, to the Yukon 

 in Alaska, and from the Pacific coast eastward to the eastern base 

 of the Rocky Mountains (National Museum) ; interior of British 

 America north to the fifty-seventh parallel (Swainson & Richard- 




102 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



son) ; Canada and Wisconsin (Museum Philadelphia Academy) ; 

 Massachusetts (Museum Wm. Brewster); Illinois (Ridgway) ; 

 Arkansas, Mazatlan, Costa Rica, and Argentine Republic (Na- 

 tional Museum); Guatemala (Sclater); Patagonia (Sharpe) ; 

 Masafuera (Salvin, in epist.). 



Diagnosis. Dimensions: Length, 19.00-22.00; extent, 48.00- 

 56; wing, 12.00-17.25; tail, 8.00-9.80; Culmen, .80-95; tarsus, 

 2.30-2.90; middle toe, 1.40-1.70. 1 Weight, 1^-3^ lbs. Form: 



1 These figures are based upon the following measurements made by the 

 author : 

 I. Measurements of prepared specimens. Museums. 



II. Measurements of fresh specimens in the field (in connection with the 

 duties of the Zoologist of the United States Geological Exploration of the 

 Fortieth Parallel, Clarence King, Esq., United States Geologist, in charge). 

 These measurements require explanation in order that they may be under- 

 stood. They come in the same sequence in each instance, as follows : (1) 

 Total length, from the point of the bill to the end of the tail ; (2), widest 

 expanse of the wings, from tip to tip ; (3), length of the wing from the carpal 

 joint to the point of the longest primary ; (4), length of the wing from the 

 metacarpo-phalangeal joint; (5), length of the culmen along the chord of 

 the arch ; (6), length of the tarsus in front ; (7), length of the middle toe 

 to the base of the claw ; (8), length of the tail from the base of the coccyx ; 

 (9), length of the tail from the end of the upper coverts. 



a. Summitries of field notes. %, ad. (Four specimens, Nevada and 

 Utah, coll. U. S. Geol. Expl. 40 Par.) : 19^-20; 48-50 J ; 12|; || ; If; 7| ; 

 4 ; weight H-2| lbs. Upper mand. deep black, scarcely bluish basally ; 

 lower black with basal | light blue ; cere and rictus greenish gamboge, or 

 dull light lemon-yellow ; eyebrow olivaceous ; iris deep hazel, or burnt- 

 sienna sometimes yellowish on upper portion ; tarsi and toes deep light 

 chrome-3 r ellow ; claws black. 



9 , ad. (Eight specimens, Nevada and Utah, coll. U. S. Geol. Expl. 40 

 Par.): 21-22; 50-56 ; 16^-17; 13J-14 ; 1; 2; 8|; 5; weight 2^-3^ lbs. 

 Bill slate-black, becoming light slate-blue basally ; cere and rictus light 

 gamboge, sometimes tinged with greenish ; eyebrow olivaceous-yellow ; iris 

 deep hazel ; tarsi and toes deep chrome-yellow ; claws black. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



Only three outer primaries with inner webs emarginated : third 

 or fourth (usually the third) quill longest; first shorter than the 



% , juv. (Two specimens, W. Nevada, coll. U. S. Geol. Expl. 40 Par.): 

 18M9f ; 43|-4oi ; 12i-13f ; 9|-10f ; f| ; 1 ; 6^-7 ; 3Hf. Bill dull black, 

 becoming pale blue towards rictus, and on basal half of lower mandible ; 

 cere and rictus yellowish-green : iris cinereous, with brownish outer wash ; 

 tarsi and toes pale ashy-green ; claws dull slate-black. Weight If 1^ lbs. 



9 , juv. (Three specimens, W. Nevada and Utah, coll. U. S Geol. Expl. 

 40 Par.): 16J-21 ; 45-503; 13-14; 10^-11; jf-1 ; lf-1* ; 6f-7 ; 3-33; 

 weight 2 lbs. Iris as above, or yellowish-brown ; feet as above (youngest 

 specimens) or light chrome-yellow (older). 



b. Notes on individuals. 109, 9 i J uv - Big Bend of the Truckee (Camp 

 12), Nevada, July 26, 18G7. 16^45 13 10 1 If 6| 3. Bill dull 

 black, inclining to pale blue on the rictus and on the basal half of the lower 

 mandible ; cere pale yellowish-green ; iris cinereous, with a brownish outer 

 wash ; tarsi and toes very pale ashy-green. 



113, 9, ad. (Fuliginous plumage, parent of Nos. 109, 115, 116, and 117). 

 Camp 12, July 29, 1867. 21^ 53 17 14 12 8| 5. Weight 2| pounds. 

 Bill slate-black, light blue basally ; cere and rictus pure light yellow; iris 

 deep hazel ; tarsi and toes light chrome-yellow ; claws black. 



114, %, ad. (Normal plumage, mate of the preceding). Camp 12, July 

 29, 1867. 19| 48 16 12| i| 1| 7f 4i. Weight 1| pounds. Cere 

 and rictus light, dull lemon-yellow ; tarsi and toes deep chrome-yellow ; iris 

 deep hazel. 



115, 9, juv. Camp 12, July 29, 1867. 193-471411}^ 137^33. 

 Weight 2 pounds. Same remarks as to No. 109. 



116, % , juv. Camp 12, July 29, 1867. 19 45^ 13| 10f 1| If- 7 

 S|. Weight If pounds. Same remarks. 



177, % , juv. Camp 12, July 29, 1867. 18| 43| 12 9| fj 1 6| 

 4. Weight 1^ pound. Same remarks. 



771, 9, ad. (Intermediate plumage, barred ochraceous belly). Truckee 

 Reservation, May 29, 1868. (Shot from nest.) 21^5216^13^. Weight 

 3 pounds. Bill deep black, the upper mandible scarcely paler basally ; 

 lower, with the basal third pale blue ; cere and rictus greenish-gamboge ; 

 iris burnt sienna ; tarsi and toes deep gamboge, with a greenish tinge. 



1072, 9, ad. (Normal plumage, immaculate white belly). Salt Lake 

 City, Utah, May 31, 1869. 2153. Weight 2 pounds. Bill slate-black, 

 becoming light slate-blue basally ; cere and rictus greenish-gamboge ; naked 

 eyebrow olive-yellow ; iris deep fine hazel ; tarsi and toes deep chrome- 

 yellow. (Stomach filled with grasshoppers.) 



1073, 9 , ad. (Normal plumage, immaculate white belly). Same locality 

 and date. 21^53. Weight 2^ pounds. Same remarks. 



1074, 9, ad. (Normal plumage, immaculate white belly). Same locality 

 and date. 22 53. Weight 2^ pounds. Same remarks. 




104 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



sixth (usually about equal to rarely shorter than the seventh). 

 Whig reaching nearly to the end of the tail ; primaries exceed- 

 ing secondaries by about one-third the length of the wing. Tail 

 even. Transverse scutellae on front of the tarsus, 9-13. Color: 

 Tail grayish-brown, or grayish, sometimes with a hoary-cast, 

 usually passing narrowly into whitish at the tip, and crossed by 

 an indefinite number of very indistinct narrow bands of a darker 

 shade. Colors of other portions extreme^ variable. Adult, nearly 

 uniform dusky brown above, the frontlet, concealed bases of occi- 

 pital feathers, and the upper tail-coverts more or less mixed with 

 white ; beneath sometimes pure white, with a broad patch of 

 uniform brown or rufous on the breast, and white throat-patch, 

 but from this light extreme the lower parts vary to uniform 

 dusky chocolate or sooty brown, through intermediate shades of 

 ochraceous or rufous upon which ground deeper-colored bars are 

 visible on portions posterior to the pectoral patch; very rarely 

 the lower parts are irregularly spotted with brown, while the 

 pectoral patch is broken up into similar spotting by the admixture 

 of more or less of white. In the extreme melanistic condition the 

 bird is uniformly blackish-brown, with white bars on the crissum. 

 Young, ochraceous and purplish-black, in relative quantities vary- 

 ing according to the individual; the ochraceous forms the ground 



1075, 9 , ad. (Normal plumage, immaculate white belly). Same locality 

 and date. 2H 54. Weight 2f pounds. Same remarks. 



1291, %, ad. (Normal plumage). Parley's Park, Utah, June 25, 1869. 

 20 50. Weight 2|- pounds. Upper mandible, deep black, scarcely bluish 

 basally ; lower, with basal third light blue ; cere and rictus greenish-gam- 

 boge ; iris burnt-sienna, yellowish on top ; eyebrow olivaceous ; tarsi and 

 toes deep, light chrome-yellow. 



1310, , ad. (Normal plumage). Parley's Park, June 26, 18G9. 19 

 48. Same remarks. 



1335, J, ad. (Fuliginous plumage). Parley's Park, June 28, 1869. 22 

 56 17. Weight 3^ pounds. Bill black, pale blue basally ; cere and rictus 

 greenish lemon-yellow; iris deep brown ; tarsi and toes chrome-yellow. 



1359, % , ad. (Normal plumage, very white below). Parley's Park, 

 July 2, 1869. 20-50}. Same remarks. 



1360, 9 ad. (Fuliginous plumage, very black; mate of the preceding !) 

 Parley's Park, July 2, 1869. 2150^. Weight 2 pounds. Same remarks. 



1501, o, juv. Parley's Park, August 10, 1869. 21 50J. Bill black, 

 becoming pale blue basally ; cere and rictus, fine yellowish -green ; iris 

 yellowish-brown ; tarsi and toes light chrome-yellow. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



color, and usually predominates, but is sometimes much less in 

 amount than the black; the tail is the same as in the adult. 



a. Normal phase. 



Adult: Above continuous blackish-brown, the feathers usually 

 with somewhat paler borders ; outer scapulars and upper tail-coverts 

 very rarely tinged with rufous the latter usually more or less 

 barred with white or ashy; occipital feathers white beneath the sur- 

 face; primaries plain brownish-black, without trace of bars on outer 

 webs. Throat and chin more or less white, usually in form of a 

 sharply-defined patch; jugulum and breast brown, generally plain, 

 very rarely spotted with whitish, the tint varying from rufous () 

 to the color of the upper parts ( 9 ). Other lower parts varying from 

 white to ochraceous (rarely almost rufous), generally more or less 

 barred, or spotted transversely, with dark brown or rufous very 

 rarely immaculate; crissum usually immaculate, but sometimes 

 with faint and distant bars. Lining of the wing white, sometimes 

 tinged with ochraceous; often immaculate, but generally sparsely 

 (never heavily) spotted with rufous or brown. Under surface of 

 the primaries cinereous (the outer two or three more whitish) 

 sometimes plain, sometimes indistinctly barred with darker. 



% . Breast-patch rufous with darker shaft-streaks. 



9. Breast-patch dark grayish-umber, or blackish-brown (like 

 the back). 



Young: Above brownish-black, with a faint purplish lustre, 

 the feathers all paler on their borders; wing-coverts and scapulars 

 more or less variegated with ochraceous or whitish spotting, this 

 usually very conspicuous on the longer scapulars; upper tail- 

 coverts ochraceous or whitish (their inner webs more brownish), 

 barred with dusky. Tail as in the adult. Ground color of the 

 head, neck, and lower parts, ochraceous, varying in shade from 

 very deep cream-color to nearly white; the feathers of the head, 

 neck, anterior part of the back, and sides of the breast with medial 

 longitudinal tear-shaped spots of brownish-black; lower parts 

 generally spotted, sometimes everywhere, with black, and occasion- 

 ally immaculate. 




10G PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



b. Melanistic j^hase. 



Adult : Prevailing color plain blackish-brown ; the tibite, lining 

 of the wings, and sometimes the breast, inclining, more or less, 

 to rufous. Crissum usually white, sometimes immaculate, gener- 

 ally barred with rusty or blackish ; occasionally with dusky and 

 whitish bars of equal width. No white on the throat, or else but 

 little of it. Young: Brownish black, variegated with ochraceous 

 spotting, in amount varying with the individual. 



Remarks. The above diagnosis is based upon upwards of one 

 hundred specimens, and ma}' be considered as covering every 

 phase, seasonal, sexual, and individual, assumed by the species. 

 So great is the extent of individual variation, that, taking a series 

 of specimens of either plumage, scarcely two can be found which 

 are alike in all their markings, especially those on the lower sur- 

 face of the body. 



The plumage of the upper surface, however, is so constant, that, 

 taking ever so large a series of adults, and turning them on their 

 bellies so that the backs of all are presented to view at once, a 

 specimen in the least degree aberrant is very rare, while one very 

 noticeably different can scarcely be found ; and when such a one 

 is detected, it is generally found that the difference is a seasonal, 

 rather than an individual, one. Thus, in specimens which have 

 just completed the new moult, some of the longer scapulars are 

 seen to be slightly variegated with oehraceous on their edges ; 

 while in those in which the feathers have become old, these paler 

 mottlings and edges are " worn" off, causing a very uniform 

 shade of dark grayish-brown to prevail continuously over the 

 upper parts, though each individual feather fades gradually in 

 depth of color on its borders. As a rule, the brown of the upper 

 parts is a shade lighter and more grayish in the males than in the 

 females, and there is apt to be a slight rufous edging to the 

 feathers of the neck, as well as a tinge of the same on the upper 

 tail-coverts ; while not unfrequently the longer scapulars have 

 their exterior edges tinged with rufous. But these differences 

 between the sexes are so exceedingly slight as to be appreciated 

 only upon actual comparison of specimens, and even then do not 

 prove sufficiently constant to be considered of any importance. 



Reversing the position of the specimens, so as to present their 

 lower surfaces to view, they can be immediately placed into two 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



groups, distinguished by the color of the patch on the breast. 

 One lot has this patch clear, rather light, cinnamon-rufous; the 

 other has it dark grayish-brown, the same color as the upper parts. 

 Upon examining the labels, the first series is found to be com- 

 posed entirely of males, while those of the second are all females. 



In a series of nine normally-colored adult males, all but two 

 have the rufous breast-patch abruptly defined posteriorly, against 

 the white of the posterior lower parts, the outline being semicir- 

 cular and pretty firm. The remainder of the lower surface is 

 white, with little, if any, general ochraceous tinge ; the inside of 

 the tibias is quite strongly washed with this color. One specimen 

 (No. 161 Mus. R. R., Wahsatch Mountains, Utah, June 27) is 

 almost immaculate beneath, posterior to the clear cinnamon-rufous 

 breast patch, there being only a very few scattered and minute 

 hastate specks of rust on the abdomen. The remaining five are 

 more or less speckled or barred underneath, the amount of these 

 markings varying with the individual the lightest-colored being 

 almost as continuously white as that just described, the darkest 

 having the abdomen thickly, though rather faintly, barred. Two 

 of the specimens have the bars on the upper portion of the abdo- 

 men (just below the rufous pectoral area) darker rusty and con- 

 nected by longitudinal streaks of blackish running along the 

 shafts of the feather. The tibiae may be either immaculate or 

 faintly barred; but the crissum is immaculate in all. The two re- 

 maining specimens of the series are quite aberrant in the plumage 

 of the lower parts; thus, No. 65,918, Long Coteau River, Dakota 

 (September 9, 1873), has the abdomen, sides, and tibiae heavily 

 barred with rufous, of a more rusty, or less ochraceous, tint than 

 that of the breast; these bars are rather broader than the inter- 

 vening whitish ones, are very irregularly defined, and become 

 narrower and fainter on the tibiae ; the crissum has a small and 

 very faint transverse bar near the tip of each feather. The 

 feathers of the sides have blackish shaft-streaks. No. 5,576, North 

 Platte (August 21, 1856), has the rusty-rufous of the breast con- 

 tinued back to the anal-region and tibiae ; the abdomen, sides, 

 and flanks are variegated only by the sharply-defined black shaft- 

 streaks on each feather ; the tibiae and anal-region are transversly 

 broken by paler bar-like " washings ;" the crissum is white with 

 distant bars of rusty. 



A series of nineteen adult females in the normal plumage pre- 




103 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



sents much greater and more complicated variations than does 

 that of the male birds. Fourteen of them have the lower parts 

 posterior to the breast-patch more or less ochraceous (the ground 

 color varying from buff to rufous), and everywhere, except on the 

 crissum, heavily barred with darker rusty and blackish-brown ; 

 the prevailing form of these bars varies with the individual; in 

 all but one, their direction is decidedly transverse, but as a rule 

 they are neither sharply defined nor regular ; on the tibia? they 

 are narrower, fainter, and more decidedly rufous ; on the upper 

 part of the abdomen they are more or less modified in shape by 

 an increased breadth along the shafts of the feathers, sometimes 

 running: together, and then forming a median chain of diamond- 

 shaped spots, which are usually more blackish than the other 

 markings. Some specimens have these diamond-shaped spots, 

 the characteristic pictura of the lower parts, in wdiich case the 

 transverse bars are indistinct, if not obsolete, but the strong 

 transverse barring is the rule. In the darker of these specimens 

 there is a gradual transition between the uniform brown of the 

 jugulum to the broken tint of the lower breast; and in these 

 specimens the white of the throat is more or less streaked with 

 dark brown. In nine of the fourteen specimens, however, the 

 dark grayish umber jugular area is abruptly defined, with a firm 

 semicircular outline, against the immediately lighter region pos- 

 terior to it, while the throat of these specimens is plain white, in 

 the form of a well-defined patch. The remaining five specimens dif- 

 fer decidedly from the series above described. Four of them agree 

 in having the lower parts posterior to the breast-patch almost free 

 from markings. The color of these parts is alike in all, and is a 

 creamy white (less pure than in the very light-colored males), witli 

 the tibiae, especially their inner sides, more strongly ochraceous. 

 One of them is so nearly immaculate, that a dozen or so minute 

 hastate specks of brown scattered over the upper portion of the 

 abdomen constitute all the variegation of the lower surface. The 

 most heavily spotted one has large transverse spots along the sides, 

 and more irregular, even some longitudinal, ones along the middle 

 portion of the lower bi'east. This example differs from the others in 

 having the brown of the jugular patch broken up by a conspicuous 

 spotting of ochraceous-white, this most distinct along the median 

 line. No. 1,271 (Mrs. C. E. Aiken), El Paso, Colorado, May 6, is 

 almost exactly similar. The remaining specimen is a very remark- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



able one in every way, and is entirely aberrant and exceptional in 

 its peculiar features. The relative position of the areas where light 

 and dark markings respectively prevail is exactly reversed, the pec- 

 toral region being white, with a longitudinal tear-shaped spot of 

 blackish-brown on the tip of each feather, while the abdomen, sides, 

 and flanks are so heavily marked with more or less confluent trans- 

 verse spots and bars of dark brown, that this forms the predomi- 

 nant color of those parts; the tibiae are finely and regularly barred 

 with dark brown. The style of coloration of the lower parts of 

 this specimen strikingly calls to mind that of the adult, normally 

 colored Archibuteo lagopus (vax.sancti-johannis). The gular region 

 is white, with a conspicuous medial stripe of dark brown, while it 

 is bordered on either side by a broader one of the same color. The 

 ear-coverts are so much streaked with white that this color pre- 

 vails ; while the neck is very heavily spotted with the same at the 

 bases of the feathers. The measurements are as follows: wing, 

 16.70 ; tail, 9.00; culmen, .95; tarsus, 2.90; middle toe, 1.65. 

 This specimen was obtained May 29, 1868, on the Wahsatch 

 Mountains, Utah, by Mr. L. E. Ricksecker. The sex is queried 

 as male upon the original label. Altogether, it is so far out of 

 the usual range of variation which obtains in the species, that it 

 may possibly eventually prove to belong to another species. 



The melanistic plumage grades from individuals only a little 

 darker beneath (with less-defined bars) than the clearly-barred ones 

 described above, up to others which are entirely black, except the 

 crissum and tail. The latter is always as in the normal plumage, 

 while the former always has some white this forming the pre- 

 vailing color in seven out of eight examples. Of the eight speci- 

 mens before me, only two have the crissum immaculate white, and 

 have much white on the throat. One of them has the tibiae and 

 anal-region narrowly barred with light rusty. Three others have 

 the white of the crissum marked with a very few, distant, and 

 faint bars of rusty. Two others are broadly barred with blackish- 

 brown, while the remaining one (No. 12,117, Mazatlan, Western 

 Mexico) has these black bars so much wider than the white ones 

 that the crissum seems black barred with white, rather than the 

 reverse. Two specimens (No. 12,117, Mazatlan, and No. 22,569, 

 Onion River, Arctic America) are absoluteby uniform and continu- 

 ous brownish-black, except the crissum. No. 6,455, Nebraska, has 

 the breast and tibiae bright rufous, the lining of the wing rusty 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



white. A male from Arizona in Mr. Aiken's collection has the 

 lining of the wing deep rusty rufous with blackish shaft-streaks, 

 the breast and tibiae blackish-brown. 



The plumage of the young varies between great extremes, and 

 were it not for the specific characters at once recognizable in the 

 peculiar proportions, and characteristic details of structure, cer- 

 tain individuals could not be identified at all. There is, however, 

 an average style of which the specimen described on p. 112 (No. 

 10,161) is a fair representative. Upwards of twenty specimens 

 have been examined, and sixteen are now before me. Of the series 

 now under consideration, twelve have the ground-, and prevailing, 

 color of the head, neck, and lower parts, soft, fine ochraceous-buff, 

 or deep cream-color. Only one is without spots on the lower parts 

 posterior to the jugulum. On two, the black spotting nearly 

 equals in extent of color the ochraceous ;' the tibiae are heavily 

 spotted, upon a rusty ochraceous ground. In one of them, the 

 crissum is also distantly barred. The remainder of the series have 

 the crissum immaculate, five of them have the tibia? more or less 

 barred, while no two are alike in the quantity of spotting on the 

 breast, abdomen, etc., or in the exact shape and distribution of the 

 spots though the whole series is intermediate in these respects 

 between the two specimens mentioned above as the light and dark 

 extremes of the series, and which were taken from the same nest. 



Three others differ from the above series in having the around- 

 color of the head, neck, and lower parts nearly white, with only a 

 slight tingeof ochraceous, and with the few markings of the lower 

 surface restricted chiefly to the sides of the breast. The}' are from 

 Buenos Ay res, Costa Rica, and Nebraska ; and though from 

 localities so remote from each other, the}' are almost as nearly 

 duplicates of each other as is ever seen but of these specimens, 

 I have more to say beyond (see page ). The remaining one is 

 a young example of the melanistic plumage ; and in it the black 

 markings of the lower parts of course predominate over the light 

 ones. The ground-color ma}', in fact, be considered as brownish- 

 black, variegated w r ith ochraceous. 



The upper parts vary with the individual in the proportionate 



1 One of these specimens was taken from the same nest along with the 

 very light-colored one mentioned. Their parents were a very white-bellied 

 male, and a very uniformly blackish female ! 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



amount of black and ocbraceous, though the former is always 

 greatly in the excess. The latter is not un frequently absent, but 

 a conspicuous spotting and bordering of ochraeeous may be taken 

 as the rule, exemplified by probably 80 or 90 per cent, of the spe- 

 cimens. 



Two specimens from Wisconsin, in the Museum of the Philadel- 

 phia Academy, differ from any in the National collection, though 

 they are as unlike each other as any which I ever compared. One 

 of them (the type of B. bairdii, Hoy) is unusually light-colored 

 underneath, and very continuously blackish on the upper surface. 

 The lower parts are light buff or cream-color, with a few triangu- 

 lar spots and shaft-lines of black on the sides of the breast ; the 

 lining of the wing is entirely immaculate. 



The other specimen (Menonomee Marsh, near Milwaukee, spring 

 of 1851) is just the opposite extreme in plumage, being unusually 

 dark for a young bird. On the upper parts, the continuity of the 

 black is scarcely broken ; while beneath, the black spots are so 

 large as to cover nearly the whole surface. The pileum, and nape 

 and broad " mustache" stripe from the rictus down to the jugulum, 

 with nearly the whole pectoral region, unbroken black, leaving only 

 the gular region and sides of the head pale, but even these places 

 are thickly streaked. The measurements are as follows: Wing, 

 15.00; tail, 8.80; tarsus, 2.35 ; middle toe, 1.50. 



A specimen from Iowa (No. 59,052, L. E. Ricksecker) is like 

 the average western style. A young female from Arizona (Sep- 

 tember 23, Captain Charles Bendire, U. S. A.) in Mr. Aiken's 

 collection differs from the type of U B. bairdii" only in deeper 

 shades of colors as nearly as my memory of the latter justifies 

 comparison. The Massachusetts specimen in the possession of 

 Mr. Brewster I have seen ; it is very dark, closely resembling, ac- 

 cording to my recollection of it, the blank example from Wiscon- 

 sin described above. 



The following detailed descriptions are taken from the best 

 representatives of each stage of plumage in the collection : 



Normal phase. 



Adult = B. swainsoni, Bonaparte. Male (53,105, Truckee River, 

 Nevada, July ; C. King, R. Ridgway) : Head, neck, and upper parts 

 blackish-brown ; scapulars slightly variegated with a rufous mot- 

 tling ; upper tail-coverts white tinged with rufous, and with trans- 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



verse bars of blackish-brown, about six on each feather. Tail dark 

 brown like the back, approaching back terminally, basally with a 

 slight hoary cast; crossed by about ten narrow, very obscure bands 

 of nearly black. Front and whole throat clear white, immaculate, 

 and sharply defined against the surrounding blackish ; lores dusky. 

 Whole breast, cinnamon-rufous (forming a wide, sharply defined 

 patch), marked laterally with the brown of the neck ; each feather 

 with a shaft-line of black; rest of lower parts, including whole lining 

 of the wing, continuous ochraceous-white, the latter region unva- 

 riegated ; sides with sparse, faint, transverse bars of rufous, and 

 shaft-lines of darker. Under side of primaries light slate anterior 

 to emargination, beyond which thej^are black; slaty portion crossed 

 by very obscure bars of darker. Fourth quill longest, third scarcely 

 shorter ; second equal to fifth ; first intermediate between seventh 

 and eighth. Length, 19.75 ; extent, 48.00 ; wing, 15.40 ; tail, 8.00; 

 tarsus, 2.32 ; middle toe, 1.60. Weight H lbs. Bill slate-black, 

 bluish basally; cere, and angle of mouth, light dull lemon-yellow ; 

 iris deep hazel ; tarsi and toes deep chrome yellow ; claws black. 



Female (58,507, Great Salt Lake City, Utah, May ; C. King, 

 R. Ridgway): Similar to the male, but pectoral area blackish- 

 brown, like the back ; blackish-brown of upper surface untinged 

 with rufous, all the feathers, however, fading on edges; bands 

 of the tail scarcely distinguishable on outer webs ; white of fore- 

 head very restricted; lining of the wing marked with small cordate 

 or deltoid spots of black; under surface of primaries plain deep 

 slate. Abdomen and sides variegated with a few irregular longi- 

 tudinal spots, and on the latter, transverse bars of dark brown ; 

 tibiae with faint bars of rufous. Fourth quill longest; third 

 scarcely shorter ; second very slightly shorter than fifth ; first in- 

 termediate between seventh and eighth. Length, 21.50 ; extent, 

 54.00; wing, 16.50; tail, 8.50; tarsus, 2.70; middle toe, 1.70. 

 Weight, 2| lbs. 



Young = B. bairdii, Hoy, and B. oxypterus, Cassin (10,761, 

 Rocky Mountains, September ; C. Drexler) : Head, neck, and 

 entire lower parts fine delicate ochraceous, or cream-color ; feathers 

 of the crown, occiput, and neck, each with a medial stripe of black, 

 of less amount, however, than the ochraceous; forehead, super- 

 ciliary region, and ear-coverts, with only a few verj' fine hair-like 

 shaft-streaks; on the chin, and across the cheeks, are longitudinal 

 spaces of blended streaks of black, the latter forming a conspic- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



nous " mustache ;" sides of the breast with large ovate spots of 

 black ; middle of the breast with less numerous, smaller, and more 

 longitudinal ones of the same ; sides, flanks, and abdomen, with 

 broad hastate spots, more irregular and transverse on the former; 

 throat, tibiae, anal-region, and lower tail-coverts immaculate. Upper 

 surface generally, deep black, the feathers bordered with pale 

 ochraceous, the scapulars and middle wing-coverts much varie- 

 gated with the same; secondary-coverts, secondaries, and prima- 

 ries narrowly tipped with white. Upper tail-coverts pale ochra- 

 ceous, barred with black. Tail ashy-brown, very much lighter than 

 the rump (more hoary than in the adult), narrowly, but clearly, 

 tipped with white, and crossed by ten or twelve narrow bands of 

 black, more distinct than in the adult. Under surface of primaries 

 more whitish than in the adult. 



Male (No. 8550, Fort Fillmore, New Mexico ; Dr. T. 0. Henry, 

 U. S. A.) :' Head, neck, and lower parts, soiled ochraceous-white. 

 Feathers of the head above, and neck laterally and behind, with 

 medial stripes of blackish-brown ; jugulum, breast, sides, flanks, 

 and abdomen, with large rounded spots of blackish-brown ; tibiaa 

 with transverse bars of the same ; lower tail-coverts almost im- 

 maculate. A conspicuous "mustache" of blended dusky streaks, 

 from angle of the mouth across the cheeks, the dusky suffusing 

 the lores. Whole auricular region scarcely variegated pale yellow- 

 ish ; entire chin and throat immaculate. Prevailing tint above, 

 blackish-brown, becoming purplish-black on primaries ; outer sur- 

 face of wing plain, but interscapular region somewhat variegated 

 with partially concealed, irregular blotches of deeper ochraceous 

 than the lower parts ; upper tail-coverts with pairs of indistinct 

 white spots. Tail grayish-brown (white at extreme base), crossed 

 with about ten narrow, indistinct, but regular bands of dusky. 

 Lining of the wings yellowish-white, with sparse cordate spots of 

 blackish, this tint prevailing over the under primary coverts ; 

 under surface of the primaries pure purplish-black after their 

 emargination, but anteriorly plain hoary brown, growing paler 

 basally. On inner webs are very indistinct transverse spots of 

 dusky, touching neither the edge nor shaft of the feather, and 

 entirely concealed when the wing is closed. Shafts of primaries 

 pure white on under side ; on outer side, dark brown. Wing 



1 Type of B. oxyplerus, Cassin ! 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



formula, 3-4-2-5-6-7-1, 8. Three outer primaries emarginated 

 on inner webs ; second, third, and fourth, sinuated on outer. 

 Wing, 13.70 ; tail, 7.00 ; tarsus, 2.10 ; middle toe, 1.35. Primaries 

 project bej'ond secondaries, 5.50. 



Female (33,508, San Jose, Costa Rica ; J. Carmiol) : l Differs 

 from the type chiefly in lighter colors. The whole forehead very 

 broadly immaculate dull white, this continuing back to the occi- 

 put in a broad unstreaked superciliary stripe; along the upper 

 edge of the ear-coverts is a rusty suffusion, with condensed, fine 

 dusky streaks, forming an indistinct stripe separating the wholly 

 white ear-coverts from the supraoral stripe; the " mustache" is 

 very conspicuous ; the breast has a few large tear-shaped spots of 

 clear blackish-brown, and the sides have very sparse, irregular, 

 and more sagittate spots of the same ; the whole posterior parts 

 are immaculate. The upper parts are more variegated with paler, 

 the wing-coverts and rump having the feathers irregularly border- 

 ed with whitish. The upper tail-coverts are white, barred with 

 dark brown. Tail, hoary brown, crossed by nine or ten nearly 

 obsolete, narrow bands of dusky. Whole lining of the wings im- 

 maculate, except the conspicuous patch on the primary coverts. 

 The whole under surface of the primaries is uniform slaty, gradu- 

 ally deepening into black towards ends. Wing-formula, 3-4-2-5- 

 6-7, 1. Wing, 15.00 ; tail, 8.00 ; tarsus, 2.45 ; middle toe, 1.55. 

 Primaries project beyond secondaries, 6.00. 



The specimen from Buenos A}Tes (No. 55,876, % juv., Conchi- 

 tas, November, 1868; Wm. H. Hudson) was labelled by Mr. 

 Sclater " B. albicaudatus," and so published (Proc. Zool. Soc, 

 Lond., 1869, 634). This species, however, though belonging 

 strictly to the same section of the genus with B. swainsoni, and 

 being in fact its nearest ally, is yet very distinct, having alto- 

 gether larger and longer tarsi. The National Museum contains a 

 fine suite of this species, illustrating the variations to which it is 

 subject. This specimen is exactly like the Costa Rican one just 

 described. 



1 Type of description in Baird, Brewer, and Ridgway's Hist. N. Am. 

 Birds (vol. III. p. 267) of B. swainsoni var. oxypterus. "i?. albonotatus" 

 Lawr., Ann. IV. 7. Lye. N. H., IX. Ap'l, 1868, 133 ! 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



Melanistic Phase. 



Adult, = B. insignatus, Cassin, and B. fuliginosus, Sclater. 

 Male (No. 12, 117, Mazatlan, Mexico; Colonel Abert) : Entirely 

 fuliginous-black, darkest on head and back; no white on forehead. 

 Tail cinereous-umber, crossed with seven very regular and con- 

 tinuous bands of black, the subterrainal one of which is broadest. 

 Lower tail-coverts, and larger under wing-coverts, with transverse 

 bands of dull white ; lining of the wing unvaried black ; under 

 surface of primaries silvery-white, that portion beyond their 

 emargination black, the whitish portion crossed by distant, very 

 indistinct transverse bars. Third quill longest ; fourth and fifth 

 scarcely shorter, and nearly equal; second equal to sixth; first 

 shorter than eighth. Tail even; scutellre of the tarsus very faintly 

 defined, or, in fact, scarcely detectable (probabty accidental). 

 Wing, 13.00; tail, 1.00; tarsus, 1.95; middle toe, 1.55. 



Male (22,567, Onion River; R. McFarlane) : Entirely brownish- 

 black, whole under surface of wings included; lower tail-coverts 

 equally barred with white and black. Tail blackish-slate, narrowly 

 paler at the tip, and crossed with numerous oblique bars of dusky 

 black ; upper tail-coverts barred obsoletely with lighter slaty- 

 brown. Wing, 15.00; tail, 8.00; tarsus, 2.20; middle toe, 1.50. 

 Fourth quill longest; third, next; second, shorter than fifth ; first, 

 slightly shorter than eighth. 



Female (12,927, Utah Valley, July; C. S. McCarthy): Simi- 

 lar; lower tail-coverts white, tinged with rusty, and barred with 

 brown ; tibiae tinged with chestnut. Wing, 16.50 ; tail, 8.80 ; 

 tarsus, 2.60 ; middle toe, 1.65. Third and fourth quills equal and 

 longest ; third shorter than fifth ; first equal to eighth. 



The melanistic specimen from Mazatlan (No. 12,117) described 

 above agrees perfectly with Mr. Selater's excellent figure of his 

 B. fuliginosus above cited, and the onby discrepancy in the de- 

 scription is in the measurements, those given for the B. fuligi- 

 nosus being, wing, 12.00, tail, 6.50, and tarsus, 2.60. The differ- 

 ence in the length of the wing is certainly not great, while the 

 discrepancy as regards the length of the tarsus it is probable 

 results from a different mode of measurement. 



Material examined. National Musuem, 88 specimens ; Museum 

 of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 3 ; of the 

 Boston Society Natural History, 1 ; of the Museum of Compara- 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



tive Zoology, Cambridge, Mass., 1 ; of George N. Lawrence, Esq., 

 2; of William Brewster, Esq., 1; of Charles E. Aiken, Esq., 3; 

 of R. Ridgway, 5. Total number of specimens examined, 104. 



Buteo (Craxirex) pennsylvanicus (Wils. ). 



Falco pennsylvanicus, Wils. Am. Orn. VI. 92, pi. liv. f. 1, 1812 (nee. V. pi. 

 46, fig. 1 !). Lath. Gen. Hist. I. 263, 1821. Aud. B. Am. pi. xci. 

 1831 ; Orn. Biog. I. 461, 1831. Bonap. Ann. Lye. N. Y. II. 29, 434; 

 Isis, p. 1137, 1832. Nutt. Man. 1. 105, 1833. Temm. PI. Col. 67, 1836. 

 Buteo pennsylvanicus, Bonap. Oss. Cuv. Reg. An. p. 35,1830; 

 Eur. & N. Am. B. p. 3, 1838 ; Consp. Av. p. 19, 1850. Aud. Syn. 

 p. 7, 1839. Brew. (Wils.). Am. Orn. Syn. p. 648, 1852. Gray, Gen. 

 sp. 8, 1844; List B. Brit. Mus. p. 16, 1844; Hand List, I. 1869, 7. 

 Cass. B. Cal. & Tex. Syn. p. 100, 1854. Strickl. Orn. Syn. I. 32, 1855. 

 De Kay, Zool. N. Y. II. 11, pi. v. fig. 11, 1844. Cass. Birds N. Am. 

 29, 1858. Dresser, Ibis, 1865, 325 (Texas), Scl. P. Z. S. 1858, 451 

 (Ecuador, winter) ; P. Z. S. 1857, 211 (Orizaba) ; lb. 261 (Upper 

 Amazon). Caban, Jo urn. II. lxxxii. (Cuba). Gundl. Rept. 1865, 

 223 (Cuba, resident). Lawr. Am. N. Y. Lye. VII. 1861, 288 (Pan- 

 ama) ; lb. IX. 133 (Costa Rica). Schl. Mus. P. B. Buteones, 1862, 

 20; Rev. Ace. 1873, 109. Allen, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. II. 1871, 

 330. Gundl. J. f. 0. 1871, 266. Pelz. Orn. Bras. 1871, 396. Coues, 

 Key, 1872, 217. Scl. &. Salv. Norn. Neot. 1873, 119. Astur penn- 

 sylvanicus, Cuv. Reg. An. (ed. 2), I. 332, 1829. James. (Wils.) Orn. 

 I. 65. Sund. Disp. Ace. Hemeroharp. 1874, 24. Falco latissimus, 

 Wils. Am. Orn. (last ed.), VI. 1812, 92, pi. liv. f. 1. Astur latissi- 

 mus, Jard. (ed. Wils.) Am. Orn. II. 1832, 294. Buteo latissimus, 

 Sharpe, Cat, Ace. B. M. 1874, 193. Falco wilsoni, Bonap. Obs. Wils. 

 Nomencl. J. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phil. III. 348. Pcecilopternis wilsonii, 

 Kaup, Isis, 1847, 330 ; Cont. Orn. 1850, 75. Buteo wilsoni, Bonap. 

 Consp. I. 1858, 19, Sparvius platypterus, Viell. Enc. Meth. III. 

 1823, p. 1273 (quot. Wils. pi. liv. fig. 1). 



Hob. Eastern Region of North America, eastern Middle 

 America, south to Ecaudor (Sclater), Upper Amazon (Sclater), 

 and Caraccas (New York Mus.). Cuba (resident). 



Diagnosis. Adult: Upper surface dark umber-brown, the 

 feathers gradually paler toward edges ; on the back, the feathers 

 more uniformly dusky, causing a prevalent blackish appearance. 

 Rump and upper tail-coverts blackish vandyke-brown, the latter 

 tipped with pure white, and with a concealed bar of the same, about 

 the middle of each feather. Tail dull black, with an indistinct ter- 

 minal band of dull brown, this fading terminally into whitish ; 

 across the middle of the tail a broad band of dull light umber (in 

 some individuals approaching dull white) about three-fourths of an 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



inch in width; about as far anterior to the main bantl as this is 

 from the tip is another much narrower and less distinct band of 

 the same color, crossing jnst beyond the ends of the coverts, or 

 concealed by them. Primaries uniform brownish-black, fading 

 on the terminal edge into pale brown. Head above, and broad 

 but inconspicuous "mustache," running from the rictus down- 

 ward across the cheek, dull black ; the crown posteriorly, with the 

 occiput and nape, having the dull black much broken, caused by 

 the lateral streaks of dull rufous on all the feathers ; this dull 

 rufous tint prevails on the rest of the head and neck, as well as 

 the breast, leaving the lores and chin and lateral portion of the 

 frontlet alone whitish; throat streaked with blackish. Beneath dull 

 browmish-rufous, that of the breast almost unvariegated ; medi- 

 ally, however, are roundish spots of white on opposite webs, but 

 these are not confluent; posteriori}', these spots become gradually 

 more numerous and more transverse, forming on the flanks trans- 

 verse bands, almost continuous; on the tibia? the white prevails, 

 the rufous bars being more distant, and connected only by a 

 brown shaft-line; lower tail-coverts with less numerous, transverse 

 spots of dull rufous. Lining of the wing ochraceous-white, with 

 sparse, rather small, irregularly deltoid spots of dull rufous; 

 under surface of the primaries unvariegated white, as far as their 

 emargination, beyond which they are black. Fourth quill longest ; 

 third a little shorter ; second intermediate between fifth and sixth; 

 first about equal to the ninth. Female (extremes 30,969, Brook- 

 line, Mass., and 30,895, Mirador, Mexico the latter the larger) : 

 Wing, 11.00-11.30; tail, 6.80-7.10 ; tarsus, 2.30 ; middle toe, 1.30. 

 Male (32,309, Moose Factory, Hudson's Bay Territory) : Wing, 

 10.50 ; tail, 6.30 ; tarsus, 2.30 ; middle toe, 1.20. 



Young male, second year? (39,106, Remedios, Cuba, June; 

 N. H. Bishop): Upper parts similar to adult, but a reddish tint 

 appreciably washing the edges of the interscapulars and (less 

 noticeably so) the scapulars. Bands on tail nearly as in adult, 

 but very near the base is a fourth, very narrow and faintly de. 

 fined, pale band, while the bases of all the feathers are much mot- 

 tled with white. Dull rufous of the breast not continuous, but in 

 the form of large longitudinal broad spots, occupying the greater 

 middle portion of each feather; abdomen, sides, and tibioe with 

 smaller and more cordate spots of dull rufous ; the lower tail- 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



coverts immaculate ; the decided ochraceous tinge beneath, deepest 

 posteriorly. 



Young, first year (11,984, Washington, D. C.) : The blackish 

 above is much variegated, being broken by narrow rusty borders 

 to the interscapulars, rump-feathers, and lesser wing-coverts, the 

 broader and more ochraceous borders to scapulars and greater 

 wing-coverts, and partially concealed whitish spotting on the 

 former. Upper tail-coverts white, with broad bars of blackish- 

 brown ; secondaries and primaries edged terminally with whitish. 

 Tail dull umber-brown, growing darker terminally ; narrowly tipped 

 with white, and crossed with six obscure, narrow bands of dusky, 

 the (concealed) bases of all the feathers white. Superciliary 

 region, cheeks, chin, throat, and entire lower parts, delicate pale 

 ochraceous, or whitish cream-color ; a conspicuous " mustache," a 

 medial longitudinal series of streaks on the throat, with large 

 longitudinal ovate spots on sides of breast, cordate spots on sides 

 and flanks, and sagittate spots on tibiae, clear blackish-brown. 

 The ochraceous deepest on the abdomen and crissum. Wing 

 beneath as in adult. 



A very young bird, scarcely fledged (33,598, Milltown, Me. ; G. 

 A. Boardman), differs from the last in a much more continuous 

 black shade above, the deeper ochraceous beneath, and larger, as 

 well as more numerous, blackish spots beneath. 



Remarks In the adult plumage of this species, the principal 



variation is in the continuity or distinctness of the anterior light 

 band on the tail, and the extent and depth of shade of the brown 

 beneath. The first feature is characteristic of most specimens, only 

 one (55,980, % , Costa Rica) being without it; it is broadest and 

 most conspicuous, as well as less concealed hy the coverts, in the 

 females, and this appears to be the principal sexual difference. 

 The dull brownish-rufous of the under parts is most prevalent in a 

 specimen from Mirador, Mexico (30,895, ? ? September; Dr. Sar- 

 torius), in which specimen the breast is almost continuously of 

 this color, and the lower tail-coverts are strongly barred (or trans- 

 versely spotted) with the same ; the ground-color beneath is also 

 more ochraceous than in any other individual. In the Costa-Ilican 

 specimen (the one lacking the anterior tail-band), the brown beneath 

 is quite different from that of the others, being of a much more 

 ashy shade ; the lower tail-coverts are also immaculate. The 

 brown markings beneath are most sparse in 20,389, from Coban, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



119 



Vera Paz (January ; 0. Salvin) ; in this, also, the tail-bands are 

 very distinct, and almost white. 



A young bird from Costa Rica (30,412 ; Dr. Frantzius) is exactly 

 similar to No. 27,048, from Fort Garry, Selkirk Settlement. 



Material examined. U. S. National Museum, 32 ; Museum of 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 6 ; of Boston 

 Society, 3 ; American Museum, New York, 2 ; Museum Compara- 

 tive Zoology, Cambridge, 2 ; G. N. Lawrence, Esq., 5; R. Ridg- 

 way, 2. Total number of specimens examined, 52. 



Measurements. 




120 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



April 6. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-six members present. 



Remarks on a Coal Fossil, etc. Prof. Leidy said that among 

 the objects presented this evening there are several worthy the 

 attention of the members. 



One of these is a specimen of the Ceratodns Forsteri, from 

 Queensland, presented by Dr. John Belisario, of Sidney, Austra- 

 lia, through Dr. McQuillen. The fish is a representative of the 

 Dipnoi, or double breathers, like the Lepidosiren, being provided 

 with both lungs and gills. The genus was long ago named by 

 Agassiz, from isolated teeth found in the Triassic and Jurassic 

 rocks of Europe. The C. Forsteri was discovered only a few 

 years since, and was referred to Ceratodus by Dr. Giinther, from 

 the near resemblance of the teeth of the fish to the fossils de- 

 scribed under that name. 



Another specimen, presented by Dr. S. C. De Vesy, of Williams- 

 town, Dauphin Co., Pa., appears to be a fitting companion to 

 the former. It consists of a fragment of coal shale, from the 

 coal mines of Williamstown, with an impression which looks as 

 if it might be that of the tail of a relative of the Ceratodus, or of 



a huge tadpole. Among the many 

 enigmatic impressions occurring 

 in the coal shales, this is better 

 defined than usual. It is 8f inches 

 long and 6 inches at the widest 

 part. The accompanying figure 

 is an outline sketch one-fourth the 

 diameter of the original. Towards 

 the upturned end of the specimen 

 there are many strongly impressed 

 conical pits, looking as if produced 

 by prominent scale-like append- 

 ages, in the interspaces of which 

 there are many minute impressions 

 of the same form. The character 

 of the fossil is very uncertain ; it 

 may be that of a batrachian or fish 

 allied to Ceratodes. The coal 

 period is well characterized by 

 abundance of remains of both 

 kinds of animals. Perhaps, how- 

 ever, the impression may be of vegetable origin. 



Accompanying the fossil, there is another fragment of coal shale 

 with vegetable remains, and apparently a lamellibranch shell. 



i i diameter. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



121 



Remarks on Elephant Remains. Prof. Leidy called attention 

 to the fragment of a fossil elephant molar tooth presented this 

 evening by Messrs. W. W. Jefferis, and J. B. Dillingham. 



The specimen consisted of four dental plates, and is quite friable. 

 Adherent to it are a number of crystals of vivianite and also sonic 

 of the same material in pulverulent form. It was found resting 

 on the Kaolin bed, about eight feet from the surface of the Ameri- 

 can Kaolin Works, near Chadd's Ford, Delaware Co., Pa. 



Prof. Leidy also exhibited drawings of an elephant tooth which 

 had been submitted to his inspection by Dr. E. A. Wood, of Pitts- 

 burg. The specimen was dredged at the confluence of the Monon- 

 gahela and Alleghany rivers. The tooth, an upper molar, is well 

 preserved and nearly entire. Weight 9 lbs. 15^ ounces. The tritu- 

 rating surface extends about half the fore and aft measurement 

 of the tooth, and exhibits a dozen double dentinal bars. 



Another drawing, submitted Lry Prof. E. 0. Hovey, represents 

 a hugh elephant tooth, from California, and now preserved in the 

 cabinet of Wabash College, Indiana. The specimen appears to 

 be a last molar, and weighs 21^ lbs. Towards its backpart the 

 tooth is 13 inches long. The triturating surface, 7-| inches long, 

 presents eleven double dentinal plates. 



All the specimens are supposed to belong to the extinct Ameri- 

 can Elephant, Elephas americanus. 



Remarks on Stephanoceros C. Xewlin Peirce 



drawings of a specimen of an aquatic animal, belong 

 genus Stephanoceros, which had been recently 

 observed by him. In doing so, he said he 

 was induced to bring it before the Academy 

 because it was, he believed, rarely met with in 

 this country, and had not been previousl} 7 here 

 described. 



In its main characteristics, such as spiral 

 carapace or case, five tentacle-like lobes armed 

 with cilia, or, more properly, seta?, eye-spots, 

 jaws, stomach, etc., it corresponds with the 

 description given by Mr. C. Cubitt in his 

 paper entitled "Observations on the Economy 

 of Stephanoceros," in the " Monthly Micro- 

 scopical Journal," vol. iii., 1870, p. 242; but 

 in addition to that very full sketch of this in- 

 teresting object, there were some points of 

 interest not there recorded. First was the 

 great length of seta? or bristles projecting 

 from the ends of the tentacles (only to be 

 seen by especial care in focalizing with the 

 lens), these overlapping each other formed a 

 network in which were entrapped Paramecia 

 of various sizes, as many as forty having been 

 9 



ex 



ing 



hibited 

 to the 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



observed there at one time. And by virtue of these long setae the 

 animal's facility for procuring prey was greatly enhanced. 



These minute objects which served as food were by a spasmodic 

 effort of the bristles gradually brought within the arms, and from 

 there, with this continued spasmodic movement which has been 

 described by Mr. Cubitt, were brought within the vortex induced 

 by an arrangement of cilia around the mouth, which, unlike the 

 setae on the tentacles, were, while the animal was feeding, kept in 

 a whorl. 



The action of the setae on the lobes of the Stephanoceros is 

 spasmodic; it creates no vortex, and it is only by actual contact 

 with these setae that floating particles are whipped within the area 

 inclosed by the lobes, where, by the same whipping action, they 

 are twitched from point to point, irregularly downwards, until they 

 come within the range of a vortex, which is due not to any action 

 of the setae, but to a range of minute cilia in the funnel, distinct 

 from the foraging appliances. 



For two weeks the animal under observation fed voraciouslv. 

 The last few da^ys of this time granular layers were rapidly de- 

 posited on each side of the body just within the case, until the 

 upper part of the carapace was distended with this accumulation. 

 For twenty-four hours following this condition but little or no 

 food passed into the digestive cavity; any infusoria or other 

 foreign substance accidentally coming within the tentacles being 

 immediately expelled by a sudden constriction of these organs at 

 their base. 



It was evident from appearances that some change was about 

 to take place. The animal, at first very sensitive, withdrawing 

 into its cell on the slightest jar of the table on which the instru- 

 ment was placed, now but seldom contracted its retractile muscle 

 even though the zoophyte-trough, in which it was examined, was 

 quite violently tapped. 



On the sixteenth day of observation it was unavoidably left 

 for a few hours ; on returning to it the tentacles, with the 

 above-described accumulated dark mass, were found to have left 

 the original case and were attached to a portion of the plant 

 beneath the branch to which it (the original case) adhered. It 

 now presented somewhat the appearance of an animal figured 

 and described by Pritchard as a young Stephanoceros, a dark 

 globular mass with five spreading or divergent tentacles, and at 

 the distal extremity a very slight prolongation by which it was 

 attached to a plant-stem by an almost invisible thread, devoid 

 entirely of any cell or carapace. Not long, however, was it 

 destined to remain in this nude condition, for in twenty-four 

 hours appearances of a cell were visible, and within three days it 

 was domiciled in as beautiful a spiral case as the one it had left. 

 Its contractile muscle developing rapidly with the length of the 

 cell, in a few days it presented to the observer all the peculiarities 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



of the parent, and within two weeks was again ready for another 

 change such as is above described, and which was accomplished 

 with a similar result. The Stephanoceros being too high in the 

 scale of animal life to propagate by gemmation or division, tlie 

 process above portrayed can have but a remote influence upon 

 reproduction, as there was no multiplication by this change. 



The original cell with its retracted body within, though remain- 

 ing for weeks in an apparently perfect condition, was not seen to 

 increase or in the least to change the growth-force seemingly 

 being confined to the detached head and its accompanying organs. 



Dr. Leid}^ stated that he had never seen specimens of Stephano- 

 ceros until they were shown to him by Mr. Peirce. 



On the Disposition of the Great Omentum in Cynocephalus 

 porcarius, etc. Dr. H. C. Chapman made the following remarks : 



Man is usually regarded as being the only animal in which the 

 peritoneum exhibits that arrangement in which the great omentum 

 adheres to the colon. I take the opportunity of calling the atten- 

 tion of the members to the fact that I found the great omentum 

 more or less adherent to the colon in a Cynocephalus porcarius 

 which recently died at the Zoological Garden as also in a Mecacus 

 nemestrinus from the same institution. In the embryonic con- 

 dition of man the great omentum does not adhere to the colon, 

 and this condition usually remains permanent in the other mam- 

 mals. In the cases just mentioned we have an interesting illustra- 

 tion of a transitional stage in the development of the perito- 

 neum in man, permanently retained in monkeys. 



On the Trias of York County, Pa. Prof. Frazer remarked 

 that, as a matter of interest to students of the geology of the Trias, . 

 it may be stated that in the recent examination of these beds in 

 York County the supposed constant N. W. dip was found to have 

 very many exceptions. 



A further fact was noted, viz., the deposition of these beds at 

 their margin unconformably on the upturned edges of the lower 

 silurian limestone. 



Several indentations and bays of this limestone found on the 

 Triassic border, exhibit its last dip away from the latter, which 

 has the opposite dip. The improbability of the formation of these 

 Trias rocks by deposition along a sloping shore was mentioned. 



Mr. Young stated that observations recently made by him in 

 the vicinity of Norristown confirmed this state of facts. 



Prof. Cope wanted to know what had become of the other side 

 of the basin, if the said theoi\y of the formation of Trias were 

 true. 



Prof. Frazer replied that the theory was not his theory, and its- 

 difficulties must be overcome by its adherents. 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The death of Dr. A. A. Henderson, U. S. N., of Dr. P. R. Ban- 

 nan, U. S. N., members, and John Edward Gray, correspondent, 

 was announced. 



April 13. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Ten members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : " Synopsis 

 of the Geomyidoe." By Dr. Elliott Coues, U. S. A. 



April 20. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-four members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : "Descrip- 

 tions of a new Fossil Ostrea from the Amazon." By T. A. Conrad. 



On a Curious Rhizopod. Prof. Leidy remarked that in some 

 water with aquatic plants, from Absecom Pond, N. J., preserved in 

 an aquarium during the winter, he had detected a remarkable rhi- 

 zopod, which he thought might best be compared to the reticular 

 pseudopods of a Gromia separated from the body. The creature 

 moved actively and assumed the most varied forms. At one time 

 it appears as a C}dinder or a ball of jelly which may spread itself 

 into a disk of extreme thinness, from the edge of which emanate a 

 multitude of delicate pseudopods minutely ramifying, and with the 

 contiguous branches anastomosing, as in the extension of the net 

 of a Gromia. At other times the creature divides up into branches 

 from a trunk in the manner of a tree, but with the contiguous 

 brandies anastomosing. At times also the animal assumes the 

 form of a cord, and the jelly accumulating along some portion of 

 it will then move along the apparent cord like a drop of water run- 

 ning down a piece of twine. The branching pseudopods extending 

 into a net, the large angular meshes gradually contract by the widen- 

 ing of the cords, so that the meshes become perfectly circular and 

 .appear like vacuoles imbedded in the jelly. A circulation of jelly 

 with granules is observed along all the pseudopoclal filaments ex- 

 actly as in Gromia. No trace of a nucleus or investing membrane 

 in any position could be detected, but the protoplasmic structure 

 contained a multitude of minute vacuoles. Most of the speci- 

 mens contained no food, and only one of the largest was observed 

 to contain numerous minute Closteria. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



The largest specimen, consisting of a net emanating from three 

 divisions, occupied a semicircular space of of a mm. by 2 mm. 

 Another specimen with a central disk \ mm. by mm. with 

 its net, occupied a circular space mm. in diameter. A small 

 cord-like specimen was \ mm. long with an expanded end ^V mm. 

 wide ; and another irregular cord-like specimen was of a mm. 

 long with the widest portion ^ mm. 



Amoeba porrecta, of Schultze, from the Adriatic Sea, most re- 

 sembles the creature described. While it is nearty related with 

 Gromia, Lieberkuehnia, Vampyrella, Nuclearia, etc., it appears 

 sufficiently distinct in its characters to represent another genus, 

 and with the species may be appropriately named Biomyxa va- 

 gans. 



On Psorospei'ins in a Mallard Duck. Prof. Leidy remarked 

 that Dr. Elliott Coues had recently submitted to his examination 

 some portions of the flesh of a mallard duck preserved in glycerine. 

 The interstices of the muscles of the duck were stated, in the letter 

 which accompanied the specimens, to be everywhere occupied by 

 abundance of parasites. Specimens of these, in the portions of 

 flesh examined, proved to be oval white bodies from one to two 

 lines long, and about one-third of a line thick. Beneath the micro- 

 scope they were found to contain myriads of fusiform corpuscles, 

 resembling minute navicular, and measuring about the -^'^th of 

 an inch in length. Similar bodies were first discovered in many 

 fishes by the late Prof. J. Midler, and described by him as para- 

 sites under the name of Psorosperms. They have been repeatedly 

 observed since by Retzius, Robin, and others, in the muscles and 

 other parts of fishes, and they are usually regarded as vegetable 

 parasites. I have not previously heard of similar organisms hav- 

 ing been detected in birds. Though the mallard is not a fish eater, 

 the bird may have become infected by having swallowed an in- 

 fected fish. 



On a Uouthless Fish. Dr. George W. Lawrence, of Hot 

 Springs, Arkansas, in the course of correspondence, had mentioned 

 to Prof. Leidy the occurrence of a mouthless fish in the Ouachita 

 River. At his request Dr. Lawrence had sent him a specimen, 

 which he now exhibited to the members. The fish is the Buffalo 

 sucker, Catastomus bubalus, Kirtland, living in the Mississippi 

 and its tributaries. The specimen is fifteen inches long, and ap- 

 pears to be in good condition. The maxillaries, premaxillaries, 

 and the mandible are absent, and the integument is tightly ex- 

 tended between the end of the snout, the suborbitals, and the 

 articular ends of the quadrates. In the centre of this expansion 

 of the skin there is a small oval aperture one-fourth of an inch 

 fore and aft, and one-eighth of an inch in transverse diameter. 

 The hole is sufficient to admit a current of water for the purposes 




126 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



of respiration; but it is difficult to understand how the fish had 

 procured its food. The cyprinoids, generally, are remarkable for 

 their small toothless mouth, but it is, nevertheless, important in 

 its prehensile capacity. The condition of the specimen is, of 

 course, a deformity, but appears to be the result of a want of 

 development of the jaws, and not of accidental violence. Dr. 

 Lawrence observes that a few of such fishes are caught every 

 year in the Ouachita, sometimes with the oral orifice so small as 

 barely to admit a crow-quill, and occasionally without even the 

 vestige of an orifice. If the last condition really occurs, the fish 

 can only supply itself with food and with water for respiration 

 through the branchial fissures, by the alternating outward and 

 inward movements of the opercula. 



On Ouramceba. Prof. Leidy remarked that his description of 

 the curious rhizopod, he had named Ouramoeba, in the Proceed- 

 ings of Ma}" 12, 1874, having been noticed by Mr. Archer, of Dub- 

 lin, this gentleman had directed his attention to notices of the same 

 animal described in the Proceedings of the Dublin Microscopical 

 Club for Feb. 186fi and Oct. 1873. In these notices Mr. Archer 

 regards the animal only as an Amoeba villosa in another condition 

 from that ordinarily observed. Mr. Archer's description clearly 

 refers to the same animal as that named Ouramceba, in which he 

 aptly compares the bunch of tail-like appendages to "a bundle of 

 dipt-candlcs," and it is of some interest to know that the singular 

 creature, like so many other rhizopods, is common to Europe and 

 America. 



While Mr. Archer regards the "Amoeba with remarkable poste- 

 rior linear processes" (Proc. Dublin Micr. Club, Oct. 1873,314) as 

 exhibiting another condition of existence of an Amoeba from the 

 one usually observed in the genus, he gives no evidence that such is 

 the fact. Until this is proved to be the case the peculiar charac- 

 ter of the animal justifies its separation as representing a distinct 

 genus with the name of Ouramoeba. 



Since the latter was first noticed, many additional specimens 

 have been observed, and though, as in the case of rhizopods gene- 

 rally, they exhibit considerable variation, it appears that several 

 species may be distinguished. 



The genus may be thus characterized : 



Ouramceba. Body, as in Amoeba, consisting of an everchang- 

 ing fluctuating mass of jelly, composed of a granular entosarc, 

 including a contractile vesicle and a discoid nucleus, and defined 

 by a clearer ectosarc. Pseudopods usually digitiform, projecting 

 anywhere but usually in a direction differentiated as forward, and 

 composed of extensions of the ectosarc closely accompanied by 

 included extensions of the entosarc. Posterior part of the bod3" 

 furnished with one or more tufts of non-retractile, rigid, linear 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



127 



appendages, branching radically from common points in the vici- 

 nity of the contractile vesicle. 



Ouramozba vorax. Fig. A. Body active, usually ramifying 

 forward from a median stock extending from the posterior blunt 

 extremity. Posterior appendages numerous, ori- 

 ginating in several tufts up to five or six, from 

 one-third to nearly the length of the body, linear, 

 straight or curved, uniformly cylindrical, or here 

 and there contracted, commencing in a pointed 

 manner from a common root, and terminating 

 obtusely. Length of body, from I to ^ of a mm. ; 

 length of appendages from one-third to nearly 

 that of the body. 



The creature consumes multitudes of diatomes, 

 desmids, and filamentous alga?. Found in springs 

 and ponds, near Darby Creek, Delaware County, 

 Pennsylvania. 



Further observations have induced me to be- 

 lieve that the animal named 0. lapaa is the same 

 as the preceding. A variety has been observed 

 in several instances in which the animal had a 

 single pair of appendages springing from a com- 

 mon root. 



Ouramo3ba botulicauda. Fig. B. This species 

 is predicated on the form alluded to in my pre- 

 vious communication as having, - a single tuft of 

 three moniliform rays. I have seen it a number 

 of times since, and its characters appear to be 

 sufficiently constant to recognize it as a distinct 

 species. It is much smaller than the preceding. 

 The body measures about the T ^ of a millimetre. 

 The appendages are usually in a tuft of three; 

 each appendage consisting of from one to three sausage-like joints. 

 Found with the preceding. 



The Occurrence of Celestine in Blair County, Pennsylvania. 

 Mr. Chas. A. Young stated that Dana gives, as the original local- 

 ity of celestine, Frankstown, Huntington Co., Pa. The locality 

 is at Bells' Mills, Blair County. The mineral is found at the foot 

 of the western slope of Brush Mountain, on the west branch of 

 the Little Juniata, one mile south of railroad station. 



The celestine occurs in beds of irregular thickness, in a hard 

 gray limestone slate. The beds of the mineral are sometimes 

 almost an inch in thickness, thinning out in the space of a lew 

 feet to a thickness scarcely more than that of a piece of paper. 



The beds of the mineraf sometimes split, having for a parting 

 a soft brown shale, which material also directly underlies and 

 overlies the mineral to a depth of somewhat less than an inch. 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



The celestine is of the fibrous variety, the fibres being perpen- 

 dicular to planes of bedding. It is rather pale, the greater part 

 of it having a very faint blue tint. 



April 27. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-four members present. 



The By-Laws of the Academj^ -were amended, as follows: 

 Art. 2, Chap. 2, in place of " Minors shall not be eligible as mem- 

 bers or correspondents," the following words are substituted : 

 " Pei'sons not under sixteen years of age may be elected members, 

 provided their nominations be first approved by the Council. 

 Members under the legal age of twenty-one are not entitled to 

 vote at any meeting of the Academy, nor to serve on committees." 



On the Structure of the York County Valley Limestone , and on 

 Micro-photography of Minerals. Prof. Frazer asked the per- 

 mission of the Academy to put on record two observations made 

 since the last meeting. The first concerned the structure of the 

 York County limestone valley. H. D. Rogers (whose work was 

 so accurate and full of thought that corrections can only be 

 hazarded after careful consideration), in his report of a section 

 down the Susquehanna from Wrightsville to Havre de Grace, 

 speaks of two folded anticlinals which separate the main synclinal 

 basin of amoral limestone from the smaller one, which crosses the 

 river from Lancaster County near Cabin Branch Run. 



The dips as observed and recorded by my party last season 

 fully justify this interpretation, and were it not for other facts 

 not known at the time the above section was made, no one could 

 hesitate to accept this explanation. 



But on comparing seven sections made across the lower Silurian 

 measures from Littlestown to Wrightsville, it was found that in 

 every case but the latter, there seemed to be abundant evidence of a 

 vault along which the southeastern half of the valley had been torn 

 away by an upthrow, and the remaining limestone abutted on the 

 lower side of the older slates. It was found that the supposed 

 double anticlinal wave structure depended on a single dip, which 

 it only needs to suppose were local in character to bring this sec- 

 tion into conformity with the rest. The symmetrical character 

 of the valley also was based upon a single dip in this latter case, 

 not at all inconsistent with a view which would harmonize all the 

 sections. 



The other point which Prof. Frazer desired to record was in 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



connection with the reproduction of the structure of the trap 

 rocks as exhibited in thin slices. Among the causes which had 

 hindered the application of micro-photography to this purpose was 

 the fact that the constituent minerals which were colored yellow 

 or red became black in the photograph. The experiment of pho- 

 tographing the slides in polarized light and in different positions 

 of the analyzer has met with very fair success. 



The photographs of the enlargements of 34 and 13G diameters, 

 respectively, had been exhibited in connection with a paper 

 read before the last meeting of the American Philosophical 

 Society, but at that time the expedient of overcoming the anacti- 

 nism of parts of the image was merely suggested. Since then 

 six photographs of the same part of the same thin section of the 

 dolerite, best known, have been made. In five of these photographs 

 all the conditions remained the same except the position of the 

 analyzei", which was rotated to five points corresponding to max- 

 ima and minima of some of the more prominent objects in the 

 field. A particular crystal of pyroxene being selected, it was 

 pointed out that in three of the photographs this was light colored 

 with a dark axis, and in two dark with a light axis. Thus in a 

 series of photographic prints made in this wa} r the minerals which 

 were dark from the anactinism of their transmitted light were 

 easily distinguished from those that were dark from opacity, as 

 for example magnetite. 



As a means of still further modifying the conditions, No. 6 was 

 photographed just like No. 4, except that a selenite plate was in- 

 troduced over the slide and between the prisms. Prof. Frazer 

 concluded b}' remarking that he had delayed returning the thin 

 slides of Connecticut traps prepared and kindly loaned to him by 

 Mr. E. S. Dana, of New Haven, for exhibition before the Philo- 

 sophical Society, until he had repeated the experiments before the 

 Academy. He informally invited those members to remain after 

 the present meeting who desired to see the slides in polarized 

 light. The Connecticut and Pennsylvania traps were then pro- 

 jected on the screen and their effect on polarized light illustrated. 



Ellicott Fisher and J. S. Alexander were elected members, and 

 Col. T. M. Bryan, of Vincenttown, N. J., was elected a correspond- 

 ent. 



The committees to which they had been referred recommended 

 the following papers to be published : 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



SYNOPSIS OF THE GEOMYIDiE. 1 



BY DR. ELLIOTT COUES, U. S. A. 



FAMILY GEOMYIDIE. 



The presence of enormous external cheek-pouches, unconnected 

 with the mouth, distinguishes this family of rodents from others 

 excepting its nearest allies, Saccomyidee ; which latter, sharing 

 the pouches, differ in the comparative length of the fore and hind 

 limbs, the great length of the tail, size of the eyes and ears, and 

 non-fossorial character of the fore feet. There are numerous and 

 more important anatomical characters, especially in the skulls. 

 The family Geomyidse, equivalent to the Sciuro-spalacoides of 

 Brandt, and to the subfamily Geomyinse of Baird, consists of two 

 genera, Geomys and Thomomys, readily distinguished as follows: 



Geomys. Superior incisors with a deep groove near the middle, 

 with or without a second fine groove along the inner margin. 

 Claws of fore feet enormously developed. External ears obsolete. 



Thomomys. Superior incisors without a central groove, but with 

 a fine groove along the inner margin. Fore claws weaker. Ex- 

 ternal ears distinct. 



Geomys has become fairly differentiated into a considerable 

 number of species, while of Thomomys all the species hitherto 

 described may be reduced to one, with three marked geographical 

 races, the intergradation between which is still complete. All the 

 described species of both genera are accounted for in the following 

 pages, excepting one, recently published by Peters (Monatsb. 

 Acad. Wissen. Berlin, 1864, p. 177), which I have not seen. 



I. Genus GEOMYS (ex Raf. ) . 



Mus, sp., Shaw et al., 1. c. infra. 



Cricetus, sp., Desm. et al., 1. c. infra. 



Geomys, Raf., Am. Month. Mag. ii. 1817, 45. 



Diplostoma, Raf., op. loc. cit. ; charact. plerumq. inept. Nee Rich. 



Saccophorus, Kuhl, Beit. 1820, 65. 



Pseudostoma, Say, Long's Exp. R. Mts. 1823, 40G. 



Ascomys, Licht. Abh. Acad. Berl. fur 1822-3, 1825, 20. 



1 This paper is an abstract of results reached in a protracted study of the 

 family, based upon the material in the National Museum, Smithsonian 

 Institution, Washington, D. C. The extended memoir will be published 

 elsewhere. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



Analysis of Sjoecies. 



A. Superior incisors bisulcate ; fore claws enormous ; pouches very large. 



a. Upper incisors almost exactly bisected by the large groove, with the 

 fine marginal groove distinct ; tail and feet hairy. . . bursarius. 



b. Upper incisors divided by the main groove into two unequal portions, 

 of which the inner is the larger, and the fine groove faint or obsolete ; 

 tail and feet nearly naked tuza. 



B. Superior incisors unisulcate ; fore claws and pouches smaller. 



c. Superior incisors exactly bisected ; fur soft ; tail and feet hairy. 



e. Smaller ; yellowish-brown ; below whitish. . . castanops. 



f. Larger ; dark reddish-brown ; below plumbeous. . mexicanus. 



d. Superior incisors unequally divided by the groove into a smaller 

 inner, and larger outer moiety ; pelage hirsute ; tail and feet nearly 

 naked. .......... hirsutus. 



1. Geomys bursarius (Shaw), Rich. 



Mus bursarius^ Shaw, Linn. Tr. v. 1800, 227, f. 8 ; G. Z. ii. 1801, 100, 



pi. 138. 

 Cricetus bursareus, Desm., Mamm. ii. 1822, 312. 

 Saccophorus bursarius, Kuhl, Beit. 1820, 65. 

 Pseudostoma bursaria, Say, Long's Exp. R, Mts. i. 1823, 40G. Aud. 



and Bach., Q. K A. i. 1849, 332, pi. 44. 

 Geomys? bursarius, Rich., F. B. A. i. 1829, 203. 

 Ascomys bursarius, Eyd. and Gerv., V T oy. Favorite, v. 1839, 23. 

 Geomys (Saccophorus) bursarius, Gieb., Saug. 1855, 529. 

 Geomys bursarius, Bd., M. N. A. 1857, 372, pi. 22, fig. 1 a-h, pi. 50, fig. 



2 a-g, and of most late writers. Leidy, these Proceedings, 18G7, 97 



(Loess of Missouri). 

 ? Mus ludovi'cianus, Ord., Guthrie's Geog. 2d Am. ed. ii. 1815, 292. 

 ? Diplostoma fusca, Raf., Am. Month. Mag. ii. 1817, 44. 

 ? Diplostoma alba, Raf., 1. c. 

 Saccophorus? albus, Fisch., Syn. 1827, 305. 

 ? Geomys cinereus, Raf., op. cit. 45. 



Mus saccatus, Mitch., N. Y. Med. Repos. xxi. 1821, 249. 

 Ascomys canadensis, Licht., Abh. Acad. Wiss. Berl. 1823, 13, fig. 

 Geomys canadensis, Le C, these Proceedings, 1852, 158. 

 ? Geomys drummondii, Rich., Rep. Brit. Assoc, for 1836, v. 1837, 157 



(sp. indet. dentibus prim, bisulcatis). 

 ? Ascomys drmnmondii, Wagn. Suppl. Schreber. 

 Geomys oregonensis, Le C, op. cit. 160 (assigned locality erroneous). 

 Geomys breviceps, Baird, these Proceedings, 1855, 334 ; M. N. A. 1857, 



378, pi. 52, fig. 2 a-g. 



1 Only the original references, with a few of the principal additional ones, 

 are given here ; the complete bibliography will appear elsewhere. 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Canada Rat, Shaw, 1. c. Canada Pouched Eat, Rich., 1. c. Ham- 

 ster du Canada, Desm. 1. c. Canadian, Hamster, Griffith, A. K. v. 

 1827, 235. Pseudostome abourse, Less., Man. 1827, 259. Diplostome 

 bran, D. blanche, Desm., Less., 11. cc. Coffer, Taschenmaus, Schinz, 

 Syn. ii. 1845, 132. Cauffre, French Canadian (whence German 

 "Goffer" and English " Gopher"). Pouched Rat, Sand Rat, Go- 

 pher, Pocket Gopher, Salamander, American Vulgo. 



Diag. 1 Superior incisors bisulcate, with a fine sharp groove 

 along the inner margin, and another much larger bisecting the 

 remaining plane surface. Cheek pouches ample, extending to the 

 shoulders ; hands (including claws) longer than the feet ; tail and 

 feet hairy ; pelage soft, sleek, mole-like. Color dull reddish-brown, 

 beneath muddy or hoary gray, the basal portion of the fur every- 

 where plumbeous ; feet and tail for the most part white or color- 

 less. Varies to a uniform plumbago color. Average dimensions, 

 adult 7-8 inches ; tail 2-3 inches ; fore foot, with longest claw, 

 about 1.50; hind do, 1.25; longest fore claw about 0.75. 



Hab. Valley of the Mississippi, in a broad sense, and some" 

 what beyond to the northward. " Canada." " Oregon. "(???) 



2. Geomys tuza (Ord), Coues. 



Hamster of Georgia, Mitch., N. Y. Med. Eepos. v. 1802, 89 ; Bewick's 



Quad. 1st Am. ed. 1804, 525. 

 Mus tuza, 2 Ord, Guthrie's Geog., 2d Am. ed. ii. 1815, 292. 

 Geomys pinetix, Raf., Am. Month. Mag. ii. 1817, 45 (Georgia). Baird, 



M. N. A. 1857, 380, pi. 22, fig. 3 a-e. 

 Saccophor us? pineti, Fisch., Syn. 1829, 305. 

 Geomys pineti, Le C, these Proceedings, 1852, 159. 

 Pseudostoma floridana, Aud. & Bach., Q. N. A. iii. 1853, 242, pi. 150, 



fig. 1. 

 Geomys des pins, Desm., Mamm. ii. 1822, 314. 

 Southern Pouched Rat, Gopher, Salamander, Vulg. 



Diag. Superior incisors with a main groove dividing the tooth 

 into two unequal portions, the outer obviously the smaller; the 

 inner larger moiety marked by a fine marginal groove, faint, 

 obscure, and perhaps sometimes obsolete. Tail and hind feet in 

 adult life naked or nearly so. Otherwise like G. bursarius. 



Hab. Georgia, Florida, and Alabama. 



1 Detailed descriptions, discussions, and synonymy, and all general 

 matters, are deferred. 



2 N. B. Ord's Mus tuza, 1. c, quoted with a query by Baird, unques- 

 tionably belongs to this species, being based solely on Mitchell's "Hamster 

 of Georgia;" and antedates Rafinesque's name. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



Geomys castanops (Baird), LeC. 



Psendostoma castanops, Bd., Stansbury'sRep. G. S. L. 1852, 313. Aud. 



& Bach., Q. N. A. iii. 1854, 304. 

 Geomys castanops, Bd., these Proceedings, 1852, 163 ; Baird, M. N. A. 



1857, 381 ; P. R. R. Rep. x. 1859, Gunnison & Beckwith's Route, 



mammals, 8, pi. 10, f. 2. 

 Geomys clarkii, Baird, these Proceedings, 1855, 332 ; M. N. A. 1857, 



383, pi. 50, figs. a-g. 

 Chestnut-faced and Pecos Gopher, Baird, 11. cc. 



Diag. Superior incisors with a single median groove exactly 

 bisecting the face of the tooth. Forefeet shorter or not longer 

 than the hinder. Color pale yellowish-brown above, inclining 

 more or less to dull chestnut anteriorly, whitish below; size of 

 G. bursarius, or rather less. Fur soft, as usual in the genus. 



Hab. Texas and New Mexico. 



4. Geomys mexicanus (Licht.), LeC. 



Asco my s mexicanus, Licht., Abh. Acad. Wiss. Berl. 1827, 113. 



Saccophorus mexicanus, Fisch., Syn. 1829, 305. 



Geomys mexicanus, Le C., these Proceedings, 1852, 160. Baird, M. N. 



A. 1857, 387. 

 Pseudostoma {Geomys) mexicana, Aud. & Bach., Q. N. A. iii. 1854, 309. 

 Geomys {Saccophorus) mexicanus, Gieb., Siiug. 1855, 529. 

 ? Tucan of Hernandez. Tuc/i or Tuza, Mexican. 



Diag. Superior incisors bisected by a single median groove (as 

 in castanops, which is very different in color). Coloration and 

 general appearance of G. bursarius (which has bisulcate incisors). 

 Fur soft and sleek (as in other species of the genus excepting G. 

 hispidus). Averaging much larger than either of the United 

 States species (about equalling G. hispidus), with proportionally 

 smaller pouches and hands, and weaker claws. Tail and feet 

 hairy (as is usual in the genus, not as in G.tuza or G. hispidus). 



Hab. Mexico. (Limits of its distribution not known.) 



5. Geomys hispidus, Le C. 



Geomys hispidus, Le C, these Proceedings, 1852, 158. Baird, M. N. A. 



1857, 386, pi. 22, f. 4 a-d. 

 Pseudostoma {Geomys) hispidus, Aud. & Bach., Q. N. A. iii. 1854, 



306. 

 Saccophorus quachil, 1 Gray, P. Z. S. xi. 1843, 79 (Cohan, Centr. Am. ; 



descr. nulla.). Gerr., Cat. Bones Br. Mus. 1862, 223. 



1 I do not find that this species, named in 1843, was ever described. 

 Desiring to find out what it was, I wrote to Mr. R. B. Sharpe of the British 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Diarj. Superior incisors with a single strong deep groove lying 

 wholly in the inner half of the tooth. Tail and hind feet naked 

 or nearly so. Forefeet, including claws, decidedly shorter than 

 the hind feet. Pouches moderate, reaching scarcely or not be} T ond 

 the head. Pelage peculiarly stiff, harsh, coarse and nearly lustre- 

 less. Color uniform dull chocolate-brown, merely paler below. 

 Of largest size; upward of a foot long; tail only about 3 inches; 

 sole of hind foot 1.66. 



Hab. Parts of Mexico, and Central America. 



II. Genus THOMOMYS, Maxim. 



Oryctomys, pt., Eyd. and Gerv., Mag. Zool. vi. 1836, 23. 

 Thomomys, Maxim., N. Act. Ac. C. L. xix. 1839, 383. 



In addition to the foregoing, all the synonj-ms of Geomys (q. v.) 

 have been applied to species of this genus. 



It is impossible to diagnosticate more than two species of this 

 genus. The expressions used, therefore, to distinguish the three 

 intergrading geographical races of T. talpoides, in the following 

 analysis, must be understood to indicate onty the normal average 

 of the three forms, perfectly intermediate examples of each of 

 which are found. 



Analysis of Species. 



A. Large ; adults at least six inches long, usually more. Hind foot 

 an inch or more long. Tail at least one-third as long as head and 

 Lod} r . Above brown, reddish, etc, ; below gray, brown, reddish, 

 etc. (not white). Ears set in a blackish area. 1. talpoides. 



a'. Six or eight inches long. Fore claws highly developed (0.45- 

 0.50 long) causing the hand to about equal the foot in length. 

 Color of the house rat, with white tail and feet ; usually white 

 about the mouth. Northern Interior. a. talpoides. 



b'. Seven to nine inches'long ; fore claws less developed, usually 

 under 0.50, leaving the hand shorter than the foot ; reddish- 

 brown, the belly muddy brownish ; tail and feet usually not 

 entirely white ; mouth-parts dark, contrasting with the white 

 of the pouches. Pacific coast, U. S. b. bulbivorus. 



rj . Averaging smaller ; usually six to seven inches long. Fore 

 claws about 0.40 long, leaving the hand decidedly shorter than 



Museum, who, with his usual courtesy, examined Gray's type for me, and 

 found it to agree exactly with the diagnosis I sent him of O. Mspidus. In 

 this identification he is supported by Mr. Gerrard, who examined the origi- 

 nal specimen with him. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



the foot. Rich fulvous, or even fawn-color, similar below but 

 paler, variously obscured on the back with dusky ; tail and feet 

 usually dark ; face and mouth-parts sooty-blackish, strongly con- 

 trasting with white pouch lining. Southern Interior and lower 

 California. c umbrinus. 



B. Small ; decidedly less than six inches long. Hind foot less than 

 an inch, fore foot still less. Tail scarcely one-fourth as long as head 

 and body. Above, pale yellowish-gray, with a shade of light 

 brown ; below, entirely white ; feet and tail white. Ears minute, 

 not set in a blackish area; end of snout blackish. Bridger's Pass, 

 R. Mts. 2. clusius, n. s. 



1. Thomomys talpoides (Rich.), Baird. 



Gricetus talpoides, 1 Rich., Zool. Journ. iii. App. 1828, 518. 



Geomys talpoides, Rich., F. B. A. i. 1829, 204. 



Saccophorus talpoides, Fisch., Syn. 1829, 588 (marked "388"). 



(Compiled.) 

 Ascomys talpoides, Wagn., Suppl. Schreb. iii. 1843, 390. (Compiled.) 

 Pseudostoma talpoides, A. and B., Q. N. A. iii. 1853, 43, pi. 110. 



(Compiled.) 

 Geomys (Thomomys) talpoides, Gieb., Saug. 1855, 530. (Compiled.) 

 Thomomys talpoides, Baird, M. N. A. 1857, 403. (Compi ed.) 

 Geomys borealis, " Rich.," Bach., Journ. Phila. Acad. 1839, 103. 

 Ascomys borealis, Wagn., Suppl. Schreb. iii. 1843, 391. (Compiled.) 

 Saccophorus borealis, Gray, List Mamm. Br. Mus. 1843, 149. (Mere 



mention.) 

 Pseudostoma borealis, A. and B., Q. N. A. iii. 1853, 198, pi. 142. 

 Thomomys borealis, Baird, M. N. A. 1857, 396, pi. 22, figs. 2 a-e. 

 Geomyx townsendii, Bach., Journ. Phila. Acad. 1839, 105. 

 Ascomys townsendii, Wagn., Suppl. Schreb. iii. 1843, 391. (Compiled.) 

 Thomomys rufescens, Maxim., N. Act. Ac. C. L. xix. 1839, 383. Bd. 



M. N. A. 1857, 397. 

 Ascomys rufescens, Wagn., Suppl. Schreb. iii. 1843, 387. (Compiled.) 

 Geomys rufescens, Le C, these Proceedings, 1852, 1G1. 

 Geomys (Thomomys) rufescens, Gieb., Saug. 1855, 530. 

 Thomomys "fulvus," Merr., U. S. Geol. Surv. Terr, for 1872, 1873, 



665, lapsu. 

 " Geomys unisulcatus, Gray, Mus. Brit." 



Char, mediocr. Coloration almost exactlj' like that of the 

 house rat, Mus decumanus ; sometimes assuming a more reddish 

 phase, occasionally blackish-plumbeous ; tail and feet white, and 



1 Although this name is of frequent occurrence in the books, no author 

 has hitherto identified it ; all the accounts are compiled. The only advance 

 upon Richardson's original description is Audubon's figure of the type spe- 

 cimen. 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



much of the chin, throat, and breast also white in irregular patches, 

 where the fur is white to the base. No sooty blackish about the 

 mouth-parts ; no obvious distinction in color between the pouch 

 and its surroundings ; no strongly pronounced reddish-brown on 

 the under parts. General tone of coloration not decidedly tawny. 

 Ears set in a small blackish area. Length 6-8 inches ; tail 3 

 inches or less, decidedly less than half the length of the head and 

 body. Fore and hind feet, claws included, approximately equal 

 to each other, about 1.25 ; longest fore claw little less than the 

 length of the rest of the hand, about 0.50. 



(Obs. The foregoing are the average subspecific characters of 

 this geographical race as distinguished from the next, with which 

 it intergrades.) 



Nab. Supposed to occur in the interior of North America 

 from " Hudson's Bay" to the " Columbia River," and to occupy 

 about the northern half of the United States west of the Mis- 

 sissippi, exclusive of the Pacific coast region being replaced 

 there by T. bulbivo?~us, and to the south by T.umbrinus. (Speci- 

 mens examined from the Assiniboine country; from Selkirk Set- 

 tlement; from Minnesota westward along the parallel of 49 N. 

 to the Rocky Mountains; and from Idaho, Wyoming, Utah, and 

 Nevada.) 



la. Thomomys talpoides bulbivorus (Rich.), Coues. 



Diplostoma? bulbivorum, Rich., F. B. A. i. 1820, 20G, pi. 18 B. 



(Lettered " douglasii.") 

 Ascomys bulbivorus, Wagn., Suppl. Schreb. iii. 1843, 387. (Compiled.) 

 Geomys bulbivorus, Lee, these Proceedings, 1852, 162. (Compiled.) 

 Pseudostoma bulbivorum, A. & B., Q. N. A. iii. 1854, 337. (Com- 

 piled.) 

 Geomys {Thomomys) bulbivorus, Gieb., Saug. 1855, 530. (Compiled.) 

 Thomomys bulbivorus, Baird, M. N. A. 1857, 389, pi. 50, f. 3 a-g, pi. 



52, f. 1 a-g. 

 Geomys douglasii, Rich., F. B. A. i. 1829, 200, pi. 18 C, f. 1-6. 

 Ascomys douglasii, Wagn., Snppl. Schreb. iii. 1843, 392. (Compiled.) 

 Pseudostoma douglasii, And. & Bach. Q. N. A. iii. 1853, 24, pi. 105. 

 Geomys {Thomomys) douglasi, Gieb., Sang. 1855, 531. (Compiled.) 

 Thomomys douglassit, Bd. M. N. A. 1857, 394. 

 Oryrtomys (Saccophorus) bottom, Eyd. & Gerv., Mag. Zool. vi. 1836, 23, 



pi. 21, f. 4. 

 Thomomys bottce, Less., Nouv. R. An. 1842, 119. (Compiled.) 

 Geomys fuliginosus, Schinz, Syn. ii. 1845, 136. (Mere change of name.) 

 Thomomys laticeps, Baird, these Proc. 1855, 335 ; M. N. A. 1857, 392. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



Char, mediocr. Coloration stronger than in the foregoing 

 general cast reddish-brown, lined with dusky on the back, the 

 head usually darker than the rest of the upper parts ; on the sides 

 the color giving way to a clearer tawny-brown, which also occu- 

 pies the bell}', there overlying the plumbeous roots of the hairs as' 

 a strong wash. Face and mouth parts dusky, or even sooty, 

 blackish, contrasting with the white lining of the cheek pouches. 

 No pure white on the under parts. Tail and feet usually incom- 

 pletely whitish, or quite dusky. If anything, averaging rather 

 larger than true tatyoides. Hand rather shorter than the foot, 

 owing to less development of the claws, the longest of which is 

 only about 0.40 long. 



Hab. Pacific slopes and coast of the United States from Washing- 

 ton Territory to Southern California. In the north shades directly 

 through " douglasii" into typical talpoides, and in the opposite 

 direction intergrades completely with nmbrinus. 



lb. Thomomys talpoides umbrinus (Rich.), Coues. 



Oeomys umbrinus, Rich., F. B. A. i. 1829, 202. ("Louisiana,.") 

 Ascomys umbrinus, Wagn., Suppl. Schreb. iii. 1843, 389. (Compiled.) 

 Pseudostoma umbrinus, A. & B., Q. N. A. iii. 1854, 307. (Compiled.) 

 Oeomys {Thomomys) umbrinus, Gieb., Sang. 1855, 530. (Compiled.) 

 Thomomys umbrinus, Bd., M. X. A. 1857, 399. 

 Geomys fulvus, Woodh., these Proceedings, 1852, 201. 

 Pseudostoma {Oeomys) fulvus, A. &B., Q. K A. iii. 1854, 300. (Com- 

 piled. ) 

 Thomomys fulvus, Bd., M. N. A. 1855, 402. 



Char, mediocr. Averaging decidedly smaller than either of the 

 foregoing. Length of head and body little over six inches. Fore- 

 feet averaging decidedly less than the hind feet ; longest claw 

 oftener under than over 0.40. Color varying from a nearly uni- 

 form rich fulvous, or even intense reddish-chestnut, to various 

 tawny-brown shades, with or without a blackish dorsal area. 

 Belly usually merely a paler shade of the color of the upper parts, 

 or much as described under bulbivorus. Occasionally quite gray, 

 as a typical talpoides. (Varies also to a lustrous coal-black all 

 over.) Mouth parts and often whole face blackish, except some- 

 times just around the mouth, sharply contrasting with pure white 

 lining of the pouches. Tail usually not white. 



Hab. S. Colorado, S. Utah, S. Nevada, W. Texas, all of New 

 Mexico, Arizona, and Lower California to Cape St. Lucas. South- 

 ward extension into Mexico undetermined. " Louisiana." 

 10 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



2. Thomomys clusius,' Coues, n. s. 



Char. Spec. Smallest known species of the genus ; length of an 

 adult ? about 5 inches. Feet remarkably small ; sole 0.75 ; palm, 

 including longest claw, 0.65. Fore-claws small, little curved, the 

 longest under 0.30. Tail extremely short; under 1.50 in length 

 from the true base, and little over 1.00 from the end of the conical 

 enlargement at base, the scant-haired portion being thus less than 

 one-fourth of the total length of head and body. Ears minute. 

 Color above pale yellowish-gray, with a slight brown shade, the 

 fur plumbeous at base as usual. Below, nearly pure white to the 

 very base of the fur. No dark auricular area. Feet and tail 

 white. Extremity of snout blackish. 



Hub. Type No. 3051, Mus. Smiths. Inst., Bridger's Pass, Rocky 

 Mountains, July 21, 1857, Dr. W. A. Hammond. 



1 Name, given in allusion to the characteristic habit of animals of this 

 family, of plugging up the entrances to their subterranean tunnels. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



DESCRIPTIONS OF A NEW FOSSIL SHELL FROM PERU. 

 BY T. A. CONRAD. 



OSTREA, Lin. 

 0. callacta, PI. 22, fig. 1. 



Suborbicular, compressed, profoundly and equally plicated on 

 both valves; folds rounded, wide, elevated, about 8 in number; 

 upper valve concave on the umbo, entire towards the apex, eon- 

 centric lines thick and prominent. 



Locality. " This shell was picked up at the confluence of the 

 Pachitea and Pichis rivers, which flow through the Pam pa del 

 Sacramento in Eastern Peru." Dr. Gait. 



Having seen one specimen only, it may be found to vary in the 

 number of ribs. 



Dr. Gait brought this fine specimen from Peru and presented 

 it to the Academy of Natural Sciences. 



It probably comes from the Pebas group. 



ACICULA ? Risso. 



A. PI. 22. fig. 2. 



This appears to be a young shell allied to the Glandina forms. 

 As there is one specimen only, and that very 3 r oung, I am unable 

 to state whether it be undescribed or not. Prof. Orton found it 

 at Villa Delia. 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ON THE JAW AND LINGUAL MEMBRANE OF NORTH AMERICAN 

 TERRESTRIAL PULMONATA. 



BY W. G. BINNEY. 



In his work on the " Terrestrial Air-breathing Mollusks of the 

 United States," my father paid great attention to the jaws and 

 lingual membranes, figuring those of all the species which he could 

 obtain. In continuing my father's labors on the same subject, I 

 have described and figured those of many other species. Thus, in 

 a certain sense, it may be said that a great deal is known of these 

 organs in our land shells. Unfortunately, however, these figures 

 and descriptions have become of comparatively little value now 

 that the study of this subject has assumed such importance. They 

 do not give in sufficient detail the character of the individual teeth, 

 however correct an idea they may give of the general arrangement 

 of the teeth upon the membrane. I have, therefore, been induced 

 to review the whole subject, and present it in a manner which will 

 be of value as throwing light upon classification. 



The following pages contain the result of m}' re-examination of 

 the lingual membranes collected by me during the last thirty years. 

 I regret that the collection is not more perfect, but there seems 

 little chance of my making it more so, especially as to the rarer 

 and more inaccessible species. I have decided, therefore, to pub- 

 lish at this time what material I have. 



Before commencing my description, I will give some general 

 remarks on the organs treated of in my paper, and on their value 

 for the purpose of classification, and on the bibliography of the 

 subject. 



General Remarks. 



As many of m} T readers are quite unfamiliar with the subject, 

 especially most of those who have so largely contributed specimens 

 for examination, I will describe in detail the position of the organs 

 and the method adopted for their study. 



On holding up against the light an individual of Helix thyroides 

 in one hand, and offering to him with the other some food (a piece 

 of carrot is always acceptable), one can readily see with the naked 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



eye the two organs here treated of. Above the external opening 

 of the mouth, through the transparent tissue of the head, is seen 

 a small, arched, reddish, free instrument, which appears to rise 

 and fall as if used in cutting off morsels of food. This is the jaw. 



On the floor of the mouth is the lingual membrane, occupying 

 about the position of the human tongue. Its color is too nearly 

 the same as that of the head to afford any strong contrast, but, 

 with close attention, it will be detected by its glistening silvery 

 appearance, as it works backward and forward. 



The use of the tongue seems to be to rasp the food and also to 

 force it back into the oesophagus. 



More detailed description, fully illustrated by figures, of the 

 position of these two organs, will be found in the chapters on 

 Special Anatomy in the first volume of the " Terrestrial Air-breath- 

 ing Mollusks of the United States." 



Method of Extraction. 



On opening the head of Helix thyroides from above, one readily 

 notices at the extreme anterior part, close against the outer integu- 

 ment, a prominent oval body. This is called the buccal mass. It 

 is easily cut away from the animal, and will be found to contain 

 both jaw and lingual membrane. They can be removed by fine 

 scissors or knives from the buccal mass in the larger species, but 

 in the smaller species, the method usually employed is putting 

 the whole buccal mass in a watch crystal full of a strong solution 

 of caustic potash. Allowing it to remain for several hours, the 

 potash will destroy all of the buccal mass, and leave the jaw and 

 lingual membrane perfectly clean and ready for examination. 

 They remain attached, if the solution is not too strong, showing 

 a connection between the two. They must first be well rinsed in 

 clean water, in another watch crystal, before examination. Another 

 more expeditious process is to place the whole buccal mass in a 

 test-tube, with the solution of potash, and boil it for a few seconds 

 over a spirit lamp. Pouring the contents of the test-tube into a 

 watch crystal, the lingual membrane attached to the jaw will be 

 readily seen by a pocket lens. If the species be very small, as 

 Paluta striatella for instance, its whole body may be thrown into 

 the solution. Still more minute species, as Zonites milium for 

 instance, may be treated in this way : crush the whole shell between 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



two glass slides, wash away the particles of the broken shell in a 

 few drops of water, still keeping the body of the animal on the 

 slide ; when clean, drop on it the caustic potash and boil it by 

 holding the slide itself over the spirit lamp. 



On Mounting. 



For the purpose of examination, the jaw and lingual membrane 

 may be simply mounted in water and covered with thin glass. 

 One must be sure to spread out the lingual membrane, not have its 

 upper side down, and it will be well to cut it transversely in 

 several places, as the teeth are beautifully shown, and often stand 

 detached, on the edges of the cut. 



For preservation for future study I hesitate to recommend any 

 process, as I know of none which has been tried for a sufficiently 

 long time. I have myself lost many specimens by imperfect mount- 

 ing. Canada balsam, formerly used, ruins the membrane by render- 

 ing it too transparent. The glycerine mounting fluids, now in use, 

 certainly preserve a membrane for several years, but they have 

 not been tried many years. 



On the Jaw. 



The jaw and lingual membrane, having been mounted, must now 

 be examined under the microscope. 



The jaw will be found to vary greatly in its characters in the 

 different genera. It is either in one single piece (pi. XVI., fig. 

 1) ; in one single piece with an accessoiy quadrate piece attached 

 to its upper margin; or in separate, detached pieces, free on their 

 lower edges, usually soldered together into one single piece above 

 (pi. XVI., fig. 13). It differs also in being with (pi. XVI., fig. 3), 

 or without (fig. 0) a median beak-like projection to its cutting 

 edge ; also in its ends being more or less acuminated ; but still 

 more by the presence or absence of striae or rib-like processes 

 on its anterior surface. When present, the ribs are found in 

 every degree of development, passing quite across the jaw and 

 denticulating one or both margins (pi. XVI., fig. 8), or only 

 developed on the lower portion of the jaw, and crenellating the 

 lower margin. The ribs are often almost obsolete, or represented 

 by wrinkles or coarse stria?. They are present on the anterior 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



surface of the jaw only, or on both anterior and posterior surfaces. 

 They are distant, narrow, stout, few (fig. 8) ; or crowded, broad, 

 stout, and numerous (fig. 14). Their number is within certain 

 limits inconstant in the same species. They sometimes are very 

 broad, and seem like separate plates soldered to the anterior sur- 

 face of the jaw, or to be formed by a folding of the jaw upon itself 

 (fig. 12). When this appearance of folding into plates is given, 

 it will generally be found that the plait-like sections are actually 

 separated b}' distinct, but delicate ribs. When this form of ribs 

 is found, they are either vertical or inclined obliquely towards the 

 median line of the jaw. Sometimes this last arrangement is de- 

 veloped to such a degree that the delicate ribs meet before reach- 

 ing the bottom of the jaw, and a triangular compartment is left 

 at the upper centre of the jaw, its base being upward (fig. p. ). 

 This form of jaw is usually thin and membranous. 



When the jaw is striated and not ribbed, the striae are vertical, 

 or they converge towards the median line (fig. p. ). There are 

 often transverse strias also, and transverse lines of re-enforcement 

 (pi. XVI, fig. 3). 



The upper margin of the jaw is often extended into a stout 

 membranous attachment, apparently of the same material and 

 consistency as the jaw itself, and showing the same continuity of 

 structure by the stride of the jaw extending into it without inter- 

 ruption. This is not the accessory quadrate plate mentioned 

 above. 



The jaw is found in every degree of consistency, from very 

 thick to quite membranous and almost transparent. 



The cutting margin of the jaw is smooth, crenellated, or den- 

 ticulated. It is simply concaA r e, or furnished with a more or less 

 developed beak-like median projection. 



In shape the jaw ranges from scarcely arcuate, long, low, to 

 horseshoe-shaped, short, high. 



It will be seen below that these peculiarities of the jaw, taken 

 in connection with the characters of the lingual membrane, appear 

 to furnish reliable characters for classification. 




144 proceedings op the academy of 



The Lingual Membrane. 



In placing the lingual membrane under the microscope, we at 

 once perceive that it is (at least in most of our genera) a long, 1 

 narrow, ribbon-like organ, whose whole surface is covered with 

 numerous small tooth-like processes, whose reflected apices are 

 pointed, the points directed towards the oesophagus, to which, as 

 stated above, they serve to move the food, as well as to perform 

 a rasp-like mastication. These teeth are arranged in two series 

 of rows, one running longitudinally, the other transversely. 



On careful examination it will be seen that all the teeth of each 

 successive longitudinal row are of the same form, 2 but that there 

 are several t3'pes of teeth in the different parts of each transverse 

 row. Three of these t} T pes are found, the central tooth, the teeth 

 on either side of the cental, called laterals, and the teeth extend- 

 ing from the laterals to the outer margins of the membrane, called 

 marginals. The change from the single central to the laterals is 

 usually abrupt, but from the laterals to the marginals it is usually 

 gradual, so that there are several teeth intermediate between the 

 two, which may be called transition teeth. The transverse rows 

 of teeth are similar on each side of the central tooth, so that it is 

 necessary to figure only one-half of one transverse row with its 

 central tooth to give an idea of the whole transverse row, or 

 indeed, of the whole membrane, as all the longitudinal rows, as 

 stated above, have similar teeth. 



These transverse rows differ in the various genera as to their 

 direction, either straight, oblique, or curving, or a combination of 

 these directions. 



Of the three types of teeth, central, lateral, and marginal, one 

 or more may be wanting. Their number, however, is approxi- 

 mately constant in different individuals of the same species, so 

 that, as a specific character, the count of the teeth on one trans- 

 verse row is usually given ; thus in Zonites inornatus 1 find about 



1 It is very broad in Orthalicus Lignus, some subgenera of Achutinella, 

 some Buli/iiuli, etc. ; in some subgenera of Cylindrella it is very narrow. 



2 Even in case of malformation this holds true. I have often found a 

 misshapen, or otherwise abnormal tooth, repeated down the whole length of 

 the membrane, or even that a tooth may be entirely wanting in its whole 

 length. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 145 



23 1 23 teeth, that is, 23 teeth on each side of the central tooth, 

 m akin sr 47 teeth in the entire transverse row. 



The characters of the individual teeth vary greatly in the 

 various genera, especially in some of the genera foreign to our 

 limits. In most cases, however, there are two distinct types of 

 teeth, the quadrate and aculeate. The former is shown in pi. III., 

 fig. 12, a, 6, c, d, is the portion of the tooth which rests upon the 

 membrane ; I have called it the base of attachment. It varies in 

 its proportional length, and in the greater or less expansion of 

 the lower 1 lateral angles. The upper margin of this base of at- 

 tachment is broadly reflected ; e marks the reflected portion, which 

 I term the reflection. It is usually tricuspid, the median cusp h 

 being much longer than the side cusps ff. These last are sub- 

 obsolete in the species figured, but in figure 1 a of the same plate 

 these side cusps are more fully developed. All the cusps are in 

 most cases surmounted by distinct cutting points ; % is the median 

 cutting point, g g the side cutting points. These cutting points 

 are not always present on the side cusps, and, even when present, 

 are sometimes not readily detected. Indeed, this is the most diffi- 

 cult point of study of the whole membrane. The cusps and cut- 

 ting points vary in development in the various species, and some- 

 what so in different portions of the same membrane. 



The other type of tooth (pi. XVII., fig. 3 b), which I call acu- 

 leate, differs in not having a quadrate base of attachment, but 

 usually one of a somewhat sole-like form. Its upper margin is 

 not reflected, but from its whole surface springs a single large 

 cutting point, usually thorn-shaped, but sometimes more spine- 

 shaped. The apex of the cutting point is sometimes bifid, or even 

 trifid, even in the same genus. 



Of these two types, quadrate and aculeate are all the teeth now 

 known. Of the quadrate type many and dissimilar forms are 

 known, but all have the quadrate base of attachment. 



The characteristics of central, lateral, and marginal teeth are 

 given under each genus or subgenus. 



1 I use the term upper and lower to describe the figure I give of the 

 base of attachment. More properly I should say posterior and anterior to 

 describe their position on the membrane. 




146 proceedings of the academy op 



On Classification. 



The characters of the jaw, combined with those of the lingual 

 membrane, furnish reliable bases of classification. They have 

 been considered of various weight by different writers. I here 

 propose to treat them as guides only to the greater division of the 

 Pulmonata. 1 In grouping the various genera it will be necessary 

 to include all, both American and foreign to America, in order to 

 properly appreciate the value of this grouping. 



Taking, therefore, the whole series of known terrestrial Pulmo- 

 nata, the first grand division is based on the presence or absence 

 of a jaw. Of the former are the following: Testacella, 2 Daude- 

 bardia* Streptaxisf Bhytida, 5 Diplomphalusf Strebelia V Glan- 

 dina 8 Petenia? 9 SpiraxisV 9 Streptostyla, 11 Bavenia? 1 " Strepstos- 

 tele, vi CxliaxisV 4, Gonospira? 5 GibbusV 6 Ennea}~ 



All the above have aculeate marginal teeth; the lateral teeth 

 are always absent ; the centrals in some of the genera. 



The following genera have quadrate marginal teeth: Onchi- 

 dium, 18 OnchidellaJ 9 Peronia, 20 BuchananiaP 1 



' I must not be understood to propose a system of classification. I merely 

 place the genera into certain groups, independent of their divisions into 

 families. 



2 Heynemann, Malak. Blatt. X., pi. II., fig. 5. 



3 Goldfuss verh. Naturh. Vereins der preuss. Rheinl. unci Westphalens, 

 13th year, 1856, pi. VI., fig. c. c\ 



4 Heynemann, Malak. Blatt. XV., pi. IV., fig. 2. 



5 Semper, Nachr. der deut. Malak. Gesellschaft II., 102. 



6 Fischer and Crosse, Journ. de Conch. XXI., 21, pi. III., fig. 8. 



7 Jaw and dentition unknown. 8 See this paper. 



9 Jaw and dentition not actually known. 



10 Jaw and dentition not actually known ; as restricted, the genus may be 

 more correctly placed near Stenogyra. 



11 Fischer and Crosse, Moll. Mex., p. 16, pi. IV., fig. 2. 



12 Jaw and dentition not actually known. 



13 Heynemann, Nachr. mal. Gesel. I. 20, 177, fig. 5. 

 M Jaw and dentition not actually known. 



15 Bland and Binney, Amer. Journ. Conch. V. 37, pi. XI. fig. 1, photo- 

 graphed. I5 No doubt like the last. 

 Heynemann, Nach. mal. Gesel. I. 20, 177, pi. XX., figs. 3, 4. 



18 Bland and Binney, Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y. X., p. 340, pi. XVI., 

 figs. 3-5. 



19 Heynemann, Malak. Blatt. X., pi. III., fig. 13. 



20 Quoy, Voy. de 1' Astrolabe, pi. XII. 2I Jaw and lingual unknown. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



The second grand division contains those genera having a jaw. 

 In this division also we find some genera with aculeate, and some 

 with quadrate, marginal teeth. 



Of the former are: Limax, 1 Ibycus* Parmacella? Tennentia* 

 MariellaP Parmarion, 6 Dendroliniaxf Phosphorax ? 8 UrocyclusP 

 [I know nothing of the position of Othelosoma, Aspidorus, and 

 other problematical genera.] Vitrina, 10 VitrinoideaJ 1 Vitrinopsis, 12 

 Nanina and all the genera now recognized in its disentegration, 

 Stenopus, u Vitrinoconus, 15 MacrocyclisJ 6 Zonites." 



The following genera have quadrate marginal teeth. They may 

 be readily grouped by the character of their jaw, which is either 

 in one single piece, in one single piece with an accessory upper 

 quadrate piece, or in numerous pieces. 



Those whose jaw is in one single piece may again be subdivided 

 into several groups based on the absence, presence, and peculiari- 

 ties of the ribs on their jaw. This division, however, is unsatis- 

 factory, as these characters are not always well marked. 



(a) Jaw without ribs : Philomycus ParmellaV 9 Oopelta Ana- 

 derus, 11 Sagda, 2 ' 2 Patula, 23 Polymita, 24 Hemitrochus, 25 HelicodiscusJ 26 



1 See this paper. 



2 Heynemann, Malak. Blatt. X. 142, pi. I., fig. 3. 



5 Semper, Phil. Archipell. 90. 



* Semper, 1. c. 1, pi. VI., fig. 17. 5 lb. 12. 



6 lb. 9, pi. VI., fig. 10. 



7 Heyuemann, Malak. Blatt. XV., pi. I., fig. 1. 



8 Jaw arid tongue not known. 



9 Heynemann, Malak. Blatt. 1866, 70, pi. XL, as Parmarion flavescens. 



10 See this paper. 



11 Semper, 1. c. 85, pi. IX., fig. 33. 



12 Ibid. 86, pi. XL, fig. 26. ' 3 Ibid. 

 Bland, Ann. Lye. X. H. of N. Y., VIII. , 158, fig. 



15 Semper, 1 c, 91, pi. XL, fig. 27. 



18 See this paper. !r See this paper. 



18 See this paper. 



19 Jaw and lingual dentition unknown. 



20 Heynemann, Malk. Blatt. XIV., pi. I., 2. 



21 Heynemann, Malk. Blatt. X., 138, pi. I., fig. 1. 



22 Bland and Binney, Am. Journ. Conch. VI., 177. 



23 See this paper. 



2 * Bland and Binney, Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., X.,341, pi. XVI., fig. 1. 

 25 See this paper. *> See this paper. 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Acavus, Gorilla, Can/odes, Panda, Labyrinthus, CaracollusJ 

 Leucochroa, 2 Cysticopsis P Plagioptycha,* Leptoloma 5 Anostoma, 6 

 AnostomellaP Tomigerus? Boysia? Plectostoma? Hypselosto- 

 ma P Achatinella, 9 Glausilia, 10 Stenogyra, 11 Strophia, 12 Buliminus, 13 

 Balea, u Pupa, 15 Vertigo, 16 Ferussacia, 1 '* Csecilianella, 18 Geostilbia? 

 Azeca ? Tornatella P 9 Zospeum ? 20 Holospira, 21 Euc alodium 22 Coelo- 

 centrum, 23 Lithotis, 24, Phodea, Megaspira 25 Limicolaria, 26 but one 

 species has a ribbed jaw, Achatina, n Pseudachatina ? Perideris ? 

 GolumnaP 8 Bulimus as now constituted has various forms of jaw. 

 (b) Jaw with decided stout ribs : Avion, Ariolimax, Projohy- 

 saon, Pallifera, Veronicella, Binneia, Hemphillia, Helix, 29 Geomo- 

 lacus, ?0 Letournexia, 31 Peltella, 32 Xanthonyx, 33 Simpulopsus,'* Pfeif- 



1 See Semper, 1. c. No doubt other genera of disintegrated Helix will be 

 found to be grouped here. I propose at present to remove from Helix all 

 the species not having ribs upon their jaw. 



2 Bland and Binuey, Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist, of N. Y., X., 220. 



3 Bland and Binney, Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., IX. 



4 Proc. Ac. Nat. Sc. Phila. 1874, 56. 5 Ibid. 58. 



5 Journ. de Conch., XIX., 261, pi. XL, fig. 4. 

 7 Jaw and dentition unknown. 



s Jaw and dentition unknown. 



s Bland and Binney, Ann. Cyc. N. H. of N. Y., X., 335, pi. XV., figs. 

 6, 7. 



10 Troschel, Moquin-Tandon, Lehmann, etc. 



11 See this paper. I2 See this paper. 



13 But some species have ribs. See Moquin-Tandon, Lehmann, etc. 

 11 Moquin-Tandon, Moll. Fi\, pi. XXV., fig. 6. 

 15 See this paper. I6 See this paper. 



17 See this paper. IS See this paper. 



19 Unknown. 



20 Heynemann, Mai. Bl. X., pi. III., fig. 14. Jaw unknown. 



21 See this paper. 



22 See Crosse and Fischer, Journ. de Conch. 1870, pi. V., fig. 1. 



23 Jaw and dentition unknown. 



2 * Binney, Proc. Phila. Ac. Nat. Sc. 1874, pi. V., fig. 3. 



25 Jaw and dentition unknown. 



26 Bland and Binney, Amer. Jour. Conch., VII., 181. 



27 Von Martens, ed. 2, p. 201. 



28 Jaw and dentition unknown. 29 See this paper. 



o Bland and Binney, Ann. of Lye. of N. H. of N. Y., X., 309, fig. 



31 Bourgignat, Moll. nonv. et lit, VII. 201, pi. XXXIV., fig. 1-7. 



32 Jaw apparently ribbed in Ferussac's figure, pi. VII. A. 



33 Fischer and Crosse, Moll. Mex., pi. IX., figs. 15, 16. 

 81 Shuttleworth, Diag., No. 6, p. 147. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



feriaj Berendtia* and, as stated above, some species now included 

 in Bulimus, Cochlosiyla, Buliminus, Limicolaria. 



(c) Jaw with separate, delicate ribs, usually running obliquely 

 towards the centre: Gseotis? Amphibulima,* Bulimulus, Gylin- 

 drella, Macroceramusf Pineriaf ParUda.' 



The genera whose jaw is in one piece with an accessory quad- 

 rate piece are Succineaf Omalonyx? ffyalimax, 10 Athoracophorus. 11 



The genera whose jaw is in separate pieces are Orthalicus, 

 Liguus, and Punctum. Vi I have arranged the American genera in 

 the same manner in the following pages. 



Bibliography. 



The principal works referred to are : 



Leidy in Binney's Terrestrial Air-breathing Mollusks of the 

 United States. Boston, 1851, Little & Brown. The wood-cuts 

 of lingual membranes are misplaced in the text. See the list, vol. 

 II. p. 358. 



Binney and Bland. Land and Fresh Water Shells of North 

 America. Part I. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Contributions. 

 Washington, 1869. 



Morse in Journal of the Portland Society of Natural History, 

 1864. 



Moquin-Tandon. Histoire Naturelle des Mollusques Terrestres 

 et Fluviatiles de la France. Paris, 1855. 



Fischer et Crosse. Etudes snr les Mollusques Terrestres et 

 Fluviatiles du Mexique et l'Amerique Centrale. Paris, 1874. 



Lehmann. Pie lebenden Schnecken und Mnscheln der Urn^e- 

 gend Stettins und in Pommern. Cassel, 1873. 



1 Morch, Journ. de Conch., 1865, 385. 



2 Crosse and Fischer, Journ. de Conch. 1870, pi. V., fig. 11, 12. 



3 Bland and Binney, Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., Vol. X., pi. XI., figs. 

 1, 5-7. 



4 Proc. Phila. Ac. N. Sc. 1874, pi. VIII., figs. 2, 5, 6. Pellicula is a 

 synonym of this. s g ee this paper. 



6 Bland and Binney, Ann. N. Y. Lye. N. H., X., 22. 



' Binney, Ann. Lye. N. H. of X. Y., XL 45. 



8 See this paper. 9 Malak. Blatt. X., pi. IV., fig. 5, a. 



10 Fischer and Crosse, Journ. de Conch. XV., 218, pi. X., figs. 5, 7. 



11 Bergh, verh. kais. koenig. zoolog. botan. Gesell. in Wien. XX. 844, pi. 

 XII., fig. 2, 4, 5. '2 See this paper. 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Goldfuss. Verzeiebniss der bis jetzt in der Rheinprovinz und 

 Westpbalen beobachteten Land- und Wasser-Mollusken, nebst 

 kurzen Beraerbrengen iiber deren Zungen, Krefer, und Liebesfeile. 

 From Verhandlungen der natushistorisehen Vereins der preussi- 

 schen Rheinlande und Westpbalens. 13 Jabrgang. Bonn, 1856. 



Semper Landrnollusken. Reisen in Arcbipel der Philippines 

 Wiesbaden, 1873. 



Heynemann. Einige Miltkeilungen liber Schneckenzungen 

 mit besenderer Beacbtung der Gattung Limax. From Malako- 

 zoologischer Blatter, X. 1862. 



Yon Martens Die Heliceen von Joh. Christ. Albers. Zweite 

 Ausgabe. Leipzig, 1860. 



These are the principal works referred to. The references to 

 shorter papers in various periodicals will easily be understood. 



On my Illustrations. 



I have endeavored to give a good view of the central, lateral, 

 and marginal teetli of each species, with the transition teeth of 

 many of the species. The portion of the membrane chosen is> 

 different in the various species of each genus or subgenus, in order 

 that the variations in the form and development of cusps, and 

 cutting points may be shown. Thus on pi. III. fig. 1, 6, I have 

 selected the part of the membrane where the marginal teeth have 

 a very blunt cusp, while in fig. 4, 6, they are shown much more 

 graceful. It must constantly be borne in mind that on any one 

 membrane the teeth vary considerably in regard to this point. 



In illustrating the general arrangement of the teeth upon the 

 lingual membrane in each genus or subgenus, I have used the wood- 

 cuts in the text prepared for my former works and papers, mostly 

 by Mr. Morse, and a few b} 7 Dr. Leicly, prepared for my father's 

 work. It must be remembered that these figures do not represent 

 correctly the characters of the individual teeth. 



I have also used in the text figures of the jaws of many genera 

 and subgenera, prepared for the Land and Fresh Water Shells of 

 North America, Part I. The jaws of the more recently described 

 genera and subgenera I have myself drawn by camera lucida in 

 pi. XVI. 




natural sciences of philadelphia. 151 



On the Value op the Jaw and Lingual Membrane for the 

 purpose of Classification. 



It is conceded by all recent students of land shells that for the 

 larger divisions the presence or absence of a jaw, and the aculeate 

 or quadrate form of marginal teeth are reliable characters. 



The characters of the jaw and separate teeth of the lingual 

 membrane have also been used in various ways for grouping the 

 genera into families, etc., and even of grouping species into genera. 

 I refrain from any discussion of their value for such purposes, 

 simply because I believe our material is far too limited. It seems 

 as if I can better employ my time in patiently accumulating new 

 facts. I can, however, venture to say that the character of the 

 jaw and teeth seems to be more constant in some genera than in 

 others. It appears, for instance, that in some genera the presence 

 or absence of lateral teeth is not a generic character, though in 

 others it is. 



The same ma3 r be said of the presence or absence of side cut- 

 ting points to the centrals and laterals, and the greater or less 

 development of their side cusps ; also in the bifurcation or non- 

 bifurcation of the cutting point of aculeate marginal teeth. 



It will, I believe, be proved that certain genera are constantly 

 characterized by peculiar form of teeth, while others have a con- 

 siderable range of variation. I might, perhaps, add that when 

 the genus is numerous in species, there is a much greater chance 

 of finding a varying dentition. If this latter proves true, we 

 shall be obliged to concede that there are certain types of teeth 

 which may be found among species of some of the larger genera, 

 though some of the smaller genera are much more, if not abso- 

 lutely, restricted to one single t} r pe of dentition. I do not ven- 

 ture any further deductions at this time. 



Before closing my paper I must return thanks to my many cor- 

 respondents, who have furnished me specimens for examination 

 during many years. I have already acknowledged their kindness 

 while originally describing the jaw and lingual membrane of each 

 species in the American Journal of Conchology, the Annals of the 

 Lyceum of Natural History of New York, and the Proceedings 

 of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. Most of 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



those papers 1 were published in connection with my friend, Mr. 

 Bland, without whose aid I never could have had the material to 

 study lingual dentition, especially in the interesting forms foreign 

 to the United States. He has also shown great interest in the 

 progress of the present paper. 



Finally, I must acknowledge my many obligations to my young 

 friend, Mr. A. Ten Eyck Lansing, for his most valuable assist- 

 ance in the preparation of my paper. His observations of most 

 of the lingual membranes, independent of my own, have saved 

 me from many errors, and rendered my work much more reliable. 



I will add that all the figures in the plates have been drawn by 

 my own hand from the microscope itself, with the aid of the 

 camera lucida. 



Burlington, N. J., Oct. 1874. 



A complete catalogue of the species found in North America, 

 from the extreme north to the Rio Grande and to San Diego, here 

 follows. An account of their geographical distribution has been 

 published by me in the Bulletin of the Museum of Comparative 

 Zoology, vol. iii. No. 9, Cambridge, 1813. 



The sign f is affixed to the name of species whose jaw and lin- 

 gual membrane are unknown. 



PULMONATA GEOPHILA. 



OLEACINLILE. 



tGlandina Vanuxemensis, Lea. f Glandina bullata, Gld. 



truncata, Gmel. tTexasiana, Pfr. 



fdecussata, Desh. 



HELICIDJE. 



VlTRININiE. 



Macrocyclis Vancouverensis, Lea. Macrocyclis Voyana, Newc. 



tsportella, Gld. Duranti, Newc. 



concava, Say. 



1 A complete list of all these papers may be had of the American Natur- 

 alist Agency, Salem, Mass. 




1 ! i!a ; 5. 



Plate.I. 



r - - ,- r 





! -- ^.liatruncata,^:- 3 M. -c oncava, ,Sc 



I lis Durand 4r. M.Vanc uv 



5.M Voya-ria ii/ewc 





PrbcAcliat. S c. Phila.1875. 



Plate. II 



Vv'.G.B.del. 



1.2 Zordtes laevigatus.i^- 

 3 Z. cell arms. Mull. 

 4? Z frisCbilis MOB. 



' 



5. Z.inbrna 



6 Z. capnodeS;G.S. 



7. Z . full gin osu5. Grif. 





. 75. 



Plate. II! 



(V 



4TO 



12 



W n 13 pi pi 



1 . Z . gul ar i s ". 5 . Z . E Hi o i t ti , . 2 3. Z.mrernu s . S . 



2.Z. sculp tilis- -K7 6. Z. dsmis ius,-5. lO-Z.^ujadlachxP/zr 



3.,Z.lma,tuTus Ward- 7 Z.lasmodon.J? ll.Z ligenis,^*. 



4-.Z cap sella,, G7tf. 8-Z.inter t"axcus,5". 12.Z.capnodes,WGS 





Phila.1875 



Plate. IV. 



i. Lira ax f I scvu s , Lin. 

 2 L .H g ws ton i.J.G.C . 

 3.L . agres ti s . Lin. 



_ JKBnff urcls Sons Tift ."" 



. 5. L . c amp s s tri s, Butii . 



6. Vitrina Pfeiff Qvx.Newc 



7. V. exili s , Mar 



8. V. Hmpida, GM 







Procia! \c.?\ 87-5, 



Plate .V 



JKBuifoi-cls So]3sIirh"BcstorL 



h LB.cLel 



1 Arioiimax Calif orn;Lcu.s. l /'G r .C , oo J C'. 5. Anon li.ortem.sis, ^ah 



2.3. A niger, J.G.Coop. , 6Ariohmax Coliimhieams.Gld. 



^Pro^ys&oixlIeJxcplaiBi,hl.&Binn 7 Eempluffia glandulos a Bl&Bmn. 







.Phila i75. 



Plate .VI, 



> 



JEBrfforas Sonslifl 



AMermophonis CaroliruQnsis.B'o.S'C. C. Pa.lJ.if era dorsalis Bum. 

 BPallifsra WeCherbyi,Wa5. D.Ortiialicus ui :s,Brug. 



E.Ligixus fas'cianis.Mi?/ 





Proc.Ac.Nat.Sc.Phila.1875. 



Plate W. 



I. Sinclair &Sini.lifii Ma. 



WG.B.daL 



1. Patula stri^osa, Gld. 4PatulaIdahoeiisis,fc 8. Patiila Cumberlandiana/az. 

 2.PatulaCooperi,r^5.Patulaaltemata.^/ 9. Patula solitaria,^ 

 3. Patulapeispectiva,^6. Patula HemphilliJ^.10. Patula stnateIla,^/. 



7. Patula moiHax, S/uL 





FYoc.Ac.Nat.Sc.Bhila-.187 



D 



Plate TIE 



I Smclanr&SoiL.lifli.Phik 



W.G.B'.iel. 



1. Jlelix Texasiana, Mr 5 . Helix Hazardi,^ 7 - 9 . Helix auriformis, Bl. 

 2.HelKTroostiaria,Zm. 6.HelrxSepteiavoTra,6k/10. Helix Moore ana, W.G-.B. 

 3.Hfi]kuvnlifera,,s%afe'. 7 HeHx Febigeri,i#. 11. Helixfastigans,*?^ 

 4.Helixespiloca y 7?(2K 8.He]kpustula,iy: 12 . Helk auriculata^^ 





Proc.Ac.Nat.Sc.Phila.1875. 



Plate IK. 



I. Sinclair &S(HL,liQi.PHla 



W.'Q--B.dflI. 



l.He]ixEdvardsi / 5^2^.4.Helixmoiiodon^^'. 7. Kelix stenotrema^/r 

 2. Helixp olygyrella^z^ . 5. Helixgermana, ffld- ' 8. Helix spin o s a , Leu . 

 3.HelixYatesi, Iff. Coop. 6.Helklursuta, Say. 9. Belkbarti^eraA^f 





Proc.Ac.Nat.Sc.Phila.1875. 



Plaie X 



W! G-.B.del. I.Smdair&Sm.litti.PMa. 



1. Helix tndentata,^ aHelix-Rugeli^/fe^/ 6.HelixHopetonensis,^/fe^. 

 2.Helixpalliata.5^. ^.Helixinflecta,^/. 7. Helix app re ssa,^-. 



5. Helix fall ax, aS^/-. 





Proc.Ac.Nat.Sc.Phila.1875. 



Plate XI. 



T. Sinclair SiSon. lith .Plaia 



W.G-.B.del. 



1 Helix albolabris,^ 3. HelixRoemeri.i^ 6 . Selix Clarki,Ziaz. 

 2.Helixetlterb7i^ w 4.HelixI)cwLeaiia^ 7. Helix exoleta^5V)z/z 



5 . Helix S ayii , Binn 





Proc.Ac.Nat.Sc.Phila.1875. 



Plate XII. 



WG.B.del. 



1 Helix elevata,^- 



2. Helix Columbiana. Za^. 



3. Helix Mobiliana^cz. 



4. Helix devia,^. 



T. Sinclair & Sou Sth.flKia 



5. Helix profunda, Say. 



6 . Helix multiline ata, say. 



7. Helix clans a. Say. 



8. Helix dentifera, Binn,. 





Proc.Ac.NatSc.Phila.187i 



Plate XIII. 



W.C-.B.del. 



T. Smclair&Son, Hth ?Wa 



1 . Eemitro elms vanans , Mke. 5 . Helix line ata , Say. 

 Z . Helix grise ola,, Pfr. 6. Helix Newfoeiryana, W.G.Finn. 

 ' 3 . Helix StearnsiaiLa, Goto. 7. Helix as]D eis a , Mull 

 4. Helix KeHetti , Fori 8 . Helix fideli s , Gray. 

 9. Helix mfumata, &ld. 





froc.Ac.Nat.Sc.Phila.1875. 



Plate XIV. 



T. Sinclair 4 Son. Kfli.Ma. 



WG.B.del. 



IHeliztudicuJhta^m. 4. Helix Traskr, Newc 8. Helix Nickrmiana^. 

 2.Helix arros a-, Bzrui 5. Helix sequoic ola./<?%? 9.Helixramirtosa, ffld. 

 3.HeiixrufiCLnta Men/. 6. HelixAyresiana^r ICLHelix exarata,i99- 



7. Helix re dimita 





NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



153 



Zonites capnodes, W. G. B. 



fuliginosus, Griff. 



friabilis, W. G. B. 



caducus, Pfr. 



laevigatas, Pfr. 



demissus, Binn. 



ligerus, Say. 



intertextus, Binn. 

 tsubplanus, Binn. 



inornatus, Say. 



sculptilis, Bland. 



Elliotti, Redf. 

 tcerinoideus, Anth. 



cellarius, Miill. 

 fWhitneyi, Newc. 



nitidus, Miill. 



arboreus, S >y. 



viridulus, Mke. 



indentatus, Say. 



limatulus, Ward. 



minusculus, Binn. 



milium, Morse. 



Binneyanus, Morse. 



ferreus, Morse, 

 tconspectus, Bland. 



Zonites exiguus, Stimpson. 

 tchersinellus, Dall. 



capsella, Gld. 



fulvus, Drap. 

 tFabricii, Beck. 



Gundlachi, Pfr. 

 IStearnsi, Bl. 



gularis, Say. 

 suppressus, Say. 

 lasmodon, Phillips, 

 significans, Bland, 

 internus, Say. 

 multidentatus, Binn. 

 Lansingi, Bland. 

 Vitrina limpida, Gould, 

 t Angelicas, Beck. 

 Vitrina Pfeifferi, Newc. 



exilis, Mor. 

 Limax maximus, Lin. 

 flavus, Lin. 

 agrestis, Mull, 

 campestris, Binn. 

 Hewstoni, J. G. Cooper. 

 Ingersolli, W. G. B. 



Helicin^e. 



Patula solitaria, S.iy. 

 strigosa, Gld. 

 Cooperi, W. G. B. 

 Hemphilli, Newc. 

 Idahoensis, Newc. 

 tHaydeni, Gabb. 

 alternata, Say. 

 Cumberlandiana, Lea. 

 ttenuistriata, Binn. 

 perspectiva, Say. 

 striatella, Anth. 

 tpauper, Mor. 

 tHorni, Gabb 



asteriscus, Morse, 

 tincrustata, Pfr. 

 vortex, Pfr. 

 Hemitrochus varians, Mke. 

 Tebennopborus Caroliniensis, Bosc. 

 tHolospira Roemeri, Pfr. 

 11 



Holospira Goldfussi, Pfr. 

 Helioodiscus lineatus, Say. 

 Ferussaccia subcylindrica, L. 

 Caecilianella acicula, Miill. 

 Stenogyra decollata, Linn, 

 subula, Pfr. 

 toctonoides, Ad. 

 tgracillima, Pfr. 

 Pupa muscorum, Linn. 

 tBlandi, Morse. 

 tHoppii, Miill. 

 tvariolosa, Gld. 

 pentodon, Say. 

 tdecora, Gld. 

 tcorpulenta, Morse. 

 tRowelli, Newc. 

 ' tCalifornica, Rowel I. 

 fallax, Say. 

 fmodica, Gld. 




154 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



tPupa Arizonensis, Gabb. 

 fhordeacea, Gabb. 

 farmifera, Say. 

 fcontracta, Say. 



rupicola, Say. 



corticaria, Say. 

 tpellucida, Pfr. 

 fborealis, Mor. 



Vertigo Gouldi, Binn. 



Bollesiana, Morse, 

 tmilium, Gld. 

 ovata, Say. 1 

 ventricosa, Morse, 

 tsimplex, Gld. 

 Strophia incana, Binn. 



Arion fuscus, Mull. 



tfoliolatus, Gld. 

 Ariolimax Columbianaus, Gld. 



Californicus, J. G. Cooper. 

 Hemphilli, W. G. B. 

 niger, J- G. Cooper. 

 Andersoni, J. G. Cooper. 

 Prophysaon Hemphilli, Bl. and Binn. 

 Binneia notabilis, J. G. Cooper. 

 Hemphillia glandulosa, Bl. and Binn. 

 Pallifera dorsalis, Binn. 



Wetherbyi, W. G. B. 

 Gonostoma Yatesi, J. G. Cooper. 

 Strobila labyrinthica, Say. 

 Hubbardi, Brown. 

 Polygyra auriculata, Say. 

 uvulifera, Shuttl. 

 auriformis, Bid. 

 tPostelliana, Bid. 

 espiloca, Rav. 

 tavara, Say. 

 ventrosula, Pfr. 

 tHindsi, Pfr. 

 Texasiana, Morieand. 

 ttriodonto des, Bid. 

 Mooreana, W. G. Binn. 

 ttholus, W. G. Binn. 

 thippocrepis, Pfr. 

 fastigans,L. W. Say. 

 tJacksoni, Bid. 

 Troostiana, Lea. 

 Hazardi, Bid. 

 foppilata, Morieand. 

 tDorfeuilliana, Lea. 

 tAriadnse, Pfr. 

 septemvolva, Say. 

 cereolus, Muhlf. 

 tCarpenteriana, Bid. 

 Febigeri, Bid. 



Polygyra pustula, Fer. 



tpustuloides, Bid. 

 leporina, Gld. 

 Polygyrella polygyrella, Bid. and J. G 



Cooper. 

 Stenotrema spinosa, Lea. 

 flabrosa, Bid. 

 tEdgariana, Lea. 

 Edvardsi, Bid. 

 barbigera, Redf. 

 stenotrema, Fer. 

 hirsuta, Say. 

 tmaxillata, Gld. 

 monodon, Rack, 

 germana, Gld. 

 Triodopsis palliata, Say. 

 obstricta, Say. 

 appressa, Say. 

 inflecta, Say. 

 Rugeli, Shuttl. 

 trideutata, Say. 

 Harfordiana, J. G. Cooper, 

 fallax, Say. 

 tintroferens, Bid. 

 Hopetonensis, Shuttl. 

 tvultuosa, Gld. 

 loricata, Gld. 

 Mesodon major, Binn. 



albolabris, Say. 

 tdivesta, Gld. 

 multilineata, Say. 

 Pennsylvanica, Green. 

 Mitchelliana, Lea. 

 elevata, Say. 

 Clarki, Lea. 

 tChristyi, Bid. 

 exoleta, Binn. 

 Wheatleyi, Bid. 



1 V. tridentata, Wolf, is synonymous with this. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Ifi5 



Mesodon dentifera, Binn. 

 Roemeri, Pfr. 

 Wetherbyi, Bland, 

 thyroides, Say. 

 clausa, Say. 

 Columbiana, Lea. 

 Downieana, Bid. 

 fLawi, Lewis, 

 tjejuna, Say. 

 Mobiliana, Lea. 

 devia, Grid. 1 

 profunda, Say. 

 Sayii, Binn. 

 Acantliinula harpa, Say. 

 Vallonia pulcbella, Mull. 

 Fruticicola hispida, L. 



trufescens, Penn. 

 Dorcasia Berlandieriana, Mor. 



griseola, Pfr. 

 Aglaja fidelis, Gray, 

 infumata, Gld. 

 tHillebrandi, Newc. 

 Arionta arrosa, Gld. 



Townsendiana, Lea." 



Ariouta tudiculata, Binn. 

 Nickliniana, Lea. 

 Ayresiana, Newc. 

 redimita, W. G. Binn. 

 fintercisa, W. G. Binn. 

 Kelletti, Fbs. 

 Stearnsiana, Gabb. 

 exarata, Pfr. 

 ramentosa, Gld. 

 f Californiensis, Lea. 

 Carpenteri, Newc. 

 tMormonum, Pfr. 

 sequoicola, J. G. Cooper. 

 Diabloensis, J. G. Cooper. 

 Traski, Newc. 

 tDupetithouarsi, Desh. 

 ruficineta, Newc. 

 facta, Newc. 

 fGabbi, Newc. 

 Glyptostoma Newberryana, W. G. Binn. 

 Euparypha Tryoni, Newc. 

 Tachea hortensis, Miill. 

 Pomatia aspersa, Mull. 



Cylindrella Poeyana, Pfr. 



tjejuna, Gld. 

 tMacroceramus Kieneri, Pfr. 



Gossei, Pfr. 

 IBulimulus multilineatus, Say. 



tDormani, W. G. B. 



Liguus fasciatus, Mull. 

 Orthalicus zebra, Mull. 



IBulimulus Marielinus, Pfr. 

 + Floridanus, Pfr. 

 fpatriarcha, W. G. B. 

 alternatus, Say. 

 tScbiedeanus, Pfr. 

 dealhatus. Say. 



Orthalicinje. 



Ortbalicus undatus, Brug. 

 Punctum minutissimum, Lea. 



SuCCININiE. 



tSuccinea Haydeni, W. G. B. 

 tretusa, Lea. 



Sillimani, Bid. 



ovalis, Gld. not Say. 

 tHigginsi, Bid. 

 tHaleana, Lea. 

 tMooresiana, Lea. 

 tGrosvenori, Lea. 

 tWilsoni, Lea. 

 tConcordialis, Gld. 



tSuccinea luteola, Gld. 



lineata, W. G. Binn. 

 avara, Say. 

 Stretchiana, Bid. 

 tVerilli, Bid. 

 taurea, Lea 

 tGroenlandica, Beck, 

 obliqua, Say. 

 Totteniana, Lea. 

 campestris, Say. 



1 H. Mullani is a variety of this. 



9 H. ptychoptora, Brown, is a variety of this. 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



tSuocinea Hawkinsi, Bid. tSuccinea Oregonensis, Lea. 



trusticana, Gld. effusa, Shuttl. 



Nuttalliana, Lea. tSalleana, Pfr. 



YERONICELLID.E. 



Veronicella Floridana, Binn. IVeronicella olivacea, Stearns. 



A. Jaw absent. 

 Family OLE A C IN I D.E. 



Genus GLANDINA, Schum. 



Lingual membrane narrow, with chevron-shaped rows of uni- 

 form, aculeate, separated teeth ; central tooth with a long, slender, 



Fig. 1. Fig. 2. 



Lingual membrane of O. truncata. Lingual dentition of Glandina truncata. 



straight base of attachment, with incurved sides, and with inferior 

 lateral slightly expanded angles, and with the upper margin re- 

 flected and extended into a long, slender, acutely pointed cusp. 

 There are no lateral teeth, the balance of the membrane being 

 composed of marginal teeth of the pure aculeate form. 



Each row of teeth on either side of the median line curves first 

 backward, with the teetli rapidly increasing in size as they pass 

 outwards, and then forwards as the teeth gradually again become 

 smaller ; giving an irregularly crescentic shape to the half row of 

 teeth. This is shown particularly in Gl. Albersi and G. rosea, 

 less so in GL truncata. The central tooth was overlooked by 

 Wyman, Leidy, and other of the earlier investigators. It has 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



since been detected in Gl. truncata* rosea,' 2 algira, 3 Sowerbyanaf 

 plicatulaf fusiformisf Albersi ; 7 in semitarum, 8 Phillipsi 9 of the 

 subgenus Varicella; also solid u la 10 of subgenus Oleacina. This 

 central tooth is rather difficult to study, being on a different plane 

 than the other teeth, and apparently much less developed. Its 

 cusp is generally simple, long, and narrow ; but in G. rosea it has 

 a decided blunt cutting point, and in G. semitarum it has a long, 

 slender, cutting point. 



The side teeth are all of the purely aculeate type ; the base of 

 attachment is long, narrow, incurved at sides, gradually rounded 

 above, expanded and bluntly truncated below, the general out- 

 line being somewhat like that of the sole of a shoe. From this 

 base of attachment springs a large aculeate cusp. These side 

 teeth are like the marginals in Zonites, Limax, etc.; they may 

 therefore be called marginal teeth, and the lateral teeth, usually 

 present in the Vitrininee, may be said to be entirely wanting. 



As stated above, the marginal teeth increase rapidly in size for 

 a short distance from the median line, and then gradually de- 

 crease in size, as they pass off laterally, the last tooth being still 

 smaller than the first. 



Glandina truncata has 32 1 32 teeth in each row. I have 

 shown in plate I., fig. la, the central and first three marginals ; 

 b is the twentieth marginal ; c, the last tooth. Fig. a and c show 

 the teeth as seen from below, thus giving a perfect view of the 

 bases of attachment. Fig. b is a strictly profile view. The eighth 

 tooth seems to be the largest. The central tooth I find great dif- 

 ficulty in studying. It appears to have a simple, long, slender 

 base of attachment, truncated above and below with slightly ex- 

 panded lateral angles. The sides are somewhat incurved, giving 

 the tooth the appearance of a simple modification of the base of 

 attachment of the marginals. The figure (2) by Morse, copied 



' See L. and Prw. Shells, I., fig. 6. 



2 Amer. Journ. Conch., V. 202, fig. 1. 



3 Fischer and Crosse, J. de C. XVI. 234, 1868 ; Moll. Mex. et Guat., pi. 

 IV. fig. 10. 



* Same, Moll. Mex. et Guat. 73, pi. IV. figs. 6-9. 



6 Same, p. 73. s Same, p. 73. 



7 L. and Frw. Shells, I., fig. 10, p. 19. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phil. 1874, 49. 8 Same. 



"> Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., X. 347. 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



above, gives a better illustration of this central tooth than is 

 shown in my plate. I have lately verified it in fine specimens col- 

 lected by myself in Florida. 



In illustrating the dentition of this genus, I have given fig. 1, 

 copied from Dr. Leidy's figure in Terr. Moll. U. S., to show the 

 general arrangement en chevron of the rows of teeth. Fig. 2 b}' 

 Morse, copied from L. and Frw. Sh. N. A., I., gives one-half of 

 one transverse row of teeth, with the central tooth. Fig. 1 of my 

 plate is intended to show the shape of the individual teeth : a gives 

 the central with adjacent marginals ; b, the twentieth marginal in 

 profile; e, the thirty-second and last marginal. 



I have not had an opportunity of examining the lingual mem- 

 brane of G. bullata, Texasiana, decussata, or Vanuxemensis, 



B. Jaw present. 

 Family HELICID^E. 



This family may be divided by the character of its jaw in con- 

 nection with that of its dentition into several subfamilies, Vitri- 

 ninse, Helicinse, Orthalicinee, Succininse. The characteristic of 

 each will be given below. 



a. Jaw in one single piece ; marginal teeth aculeate. Vitrinin^e. 

 Genus MACROCYCLIS, Beck, 



Jaw crescentic, ends sharply pointed, anterior surface striated ; 

 cutting margin smooth, with a median projection. I have exam- 

 ined the jaw of 31. Vancouver ensis (see fig. 3, 

 Fig. 3. copied from L. and Frw. Sh., I.), concava y Du- 



ranti, Voyana, and in the West Indian species, 

 31. Baudoni, 1 Petit, and 31. euspira, Pfr. 

 Vancouver ensis. The general arrangement of the lingual mem- 



brane of Macrocyclis is the same as I have de- 

 scribed above for Glandina. 



There are 32 rows in one lingual examined of 31. Vancouveren- 

 sis. The rows of teeth are arranged en chevron. Each row is 



1 See Am. Journ. Conch. VII. 175; Ann. Nat. Hist. N. Y., X. 305. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



159 



Lingual dentition of Xacrocyclis Vancouverennia. 



FiiT. 4. divided by the median 



line into two irregular 

 crescents, the teeth rap_ 

 idly increasing and curv. 

 ing in a backward direc- 

 tion, and then gradually 

 decreasing in size and 

 curving forward. In M. 

 Vancouver en sis the sixth 

 tooth is the largest. One 

 of these subcrescentic 

 rows is shown in fig. 4, copied from L. and Frw. Sh., I., drawn 

 by Morse. This figure, however, must not be used to judge of the 

 shape of the separate teeth, better shown in plate I. The teeth 

 of Macrocyclis, as also of Glandina, are separated, not crowded, 

 as in the Helicinse. The central tooth is seen with some difficulty 

 by the microscope. I am confident, however, that I have drawn 

 it correctly for the various species. In M. Vancouverensis (pi. I., 

 fig. 4), the base of attachment is small, triangular, the apex 

 pointed backward, the angles bluntly rounded, somewhat incurved 

 at base, and bears a delicate, simple, short, slender cutting point, 

 reaching from about its centre to near its base. This cutting 

 point was not figured by Morse (see above fig.), and, indeed, 

 was observed by me only on a few of the central teeth, and then 

 with difficulty. In M. concava (pi. I., fig. 3) the central tooth 

 has a larger base of attachment, the apex of the triangle is trun- 

 cated and incurved, the base is more incurved, the outer lower cor- 

 ners more expanded and pointed, the cutting point more devel- 

 oped, with distinct lateral expansions like very slightly developed 

 subobsolete side cusps. In M. Voyana (pi. I., fig. 5), the central 

 tooth has a long, narrow, quadrangular base of attachment, incurved 

 above, below, and at sides, and bears near its base three small, 

 sharp cutting points, the median the largest ; there seems to be no 

 distinctly developed cusps bearing these cutting points. In M. Du- 

 ranti the central tooth has a base of attachment somewhat like 

 that of M. Vancouverensis, but longer, and with incurving sides ; 

 the cutting point is the same. I have not examined the lingual 

 membrane of M. sportella, which may be merely a variety of Van- 

 couverensis. The other species mentioned above are readily distin- 

 guished one from another by the form of their central teeth. 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



I may here mention that Try on (Am. Jour. Conch., II. 246) 

 erroneously includes in Macrocyclis a true species of Zonites, Z. 

 Elliotti, characterized by caudal raucous pore, parallel longitudinal 

 furrows above the margin of the foot, and the presence of perfect 

 lateral teeth. 



The side teeth of Macrocyclis at first sight, especially when 

 seen from below, appear to be of the purely aculeate type, as the 

 marginals in Zonites and Limax. From this, one is inclined to 

 consider them all as marginals, and to declare that no true lateral 

 teeth exist, thus making Macrocyclis to agree with Glandina in 

 this particular also. A more careful study shows us that the 

 teeth nearest the median line are modified from the aculeate type, 

 though they do not have the distinct form of the laterals of Zo- 

 nites, with decided cusps and cutting points. They seem rather 

 to represent those teeth of Zonites which show the transition from 

 the laterals to the marginals (see pi. II., fig. 2, the second lateral 

 tooth of Z. Isevigatus). It may be said, therefore, that the lateral 

 teeth are entirely wanting in Macrocyclis, the first side teeth 

 being laterals in the transition state, the balance being pure mar- 

 ginals. (See, however, 31. euspira, below, which has a lingual 

 membrane of Glandina.) The base of attachment of these tran- 

 sition teeth is like those of the marginals, i. e., sole-like, except 

 that the lower lateral expansions are more developed and angular, 

 and in concava and Voyana the lower edge is excurved rather 

 than incurved. The cusps are long and slender, lengthened into 

 cutting points ; the teeth are unsymmetrical by the greater de- 

 velopment of the outer subobsolete side cusps, both of these cusps 

 being distinctly indicated by expansion. In M. Vancouverensis 

 there is apparently a small sharp side point on the inner side of 

 the cusp. I am not certain of its character, and have not ven- 

 tured to figure it, excepting on the second tooth in fig. 4a. This 

 process is seen on the first six teeth only. The balance of the 

 teeth beyond the transition teeth in all the species are marginals 

 of the pure aculeate type. They vary in sharpness in different 

 parts of the same membrane, as will be seen by comparing ray 

 figure 46 of M. Vancouverensis with the marginals in profile given 

 by Morse (see above fig. 2). In M. Duranti the extreme mar- 

 ginals are large in comparison with those of the other species. 



In studying my figures, it must be remembered that fig. 3a, 5a, 

 and 4c are drawn as seen from above, to show the form of the 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



cusp. The other figures are drawn from below, to show the base 

 of attachment. 



31. Vancouverensis, drawn by Morse, has 22 1 22 teeth, two 

 other membranes examined by me gave 24 1 24, one other 

 18118. 31. concava has given 20120, 23123, and 

 25 1 25. Of 31. Duranti I have counted but one membrane 

 having 18 1 18. A single membrane of 31. Voyana had 24 

 124 teeth. 



To sum up the characters of the dentition of Macrocyclis it 

 may be said to be intermediate between Glandina and Zonites, 

 differing from the former in the presence of the transition teeth 

 from true laterals to true marginals, differing, however, from the 

 latter by the absence of true lateral teeth. 



Genus ZONITES, Montf. 



In the preceding genus Glandina we found only the aculeate 

 form of teeth or pure marginals ; in 31acrocyclis we found in addi- 

 tion to these marginals a few showing a modification of this type, 

 being the transition teeth from marginals into laterals. In the 

 present genus, Zonites, we find for the first time the lateral teeth 

 in their full development. Thus we have the three forms of teeth, 

 centrals, laterals, and marginals, all present, and apparently a 

 generic characteristic. It will be noticed, however, that in Isevi- 



Fig. 5. 



General view of dentition of Zonites indentatus. 



gatas 1 (pi. II., fig. 1, 2) there is no perfect lateral, the first tooth 

 showing a decided modification or transition into the marginals. 

 Thus we cannot say that in all species of Zonites there are pure 

 lateral teeth. It will be seen below that in some species the num- 

 ber of laterals is reduced to two. 



1 See also cellaring. 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



I give in fig. 5 a general view of the arrangement of the teeth 

 in Zonites. 1 The centrals have a base of attachment longer than 

 wide, subquadrate, with lateral expansions at the corners of the 

 lower margin. The reflected portion varies in size in the various 

 species, from highly developed in viridulus (pi. XVII., fig. 6) and 

 others, to slightly developed in lasmodon (pi. III., fig. 7) and 

 others ; in the latter case resembling the short reflection of Vitrina. 

 The reflection alwa} T s bears a more or less developed central 

 cusp, generally reaching to or beyond the lower margin of the 

 base of attachment, and always bearing a distinct cutting point, 

 which last, like the cusp, is usually slender, and projects over the 

 tooth of the adjoining transverse line. The side cusps of the 

 reflected portion of the tooth are usually subobsolete, but they are 

 distinctly developed in Z. lasmodon (pi. III., fig. 7), suppressus (pi. 

 XVII., fig. 11), Gundlachi (pi. III., fig. 10), capsella (fig. 4),gularis 

 (fig. 1), arboreus (pi. XVII., fig. 4), cellarius (pi. II., fig. 3), Isevi- 

 gatus (fig. 1, 2),signijicans (pi. XVII., fig. 10), ferreus (pi. XVII., 

 fig. 9), viridulus (pi. XVII., fig. 6), nitidus (pi. XVII., fig. 7), 

 fulvus (pi. XVII., fig. 5), milium (pi. XVII., fig. 8). On the side 

 cusps are distinctly developed cutting points in all the species I 

 have examined, excepting Isevigatus and cellarius, in which I find 

 no trace of cutting points. These points when present vary in 

 development in the various species, generally disposed to be tri- 

 angular and somewhat aculeate in form, thus bearing a resem- 

 blance to the cusp of the marginal teeth. The greatest develop- 

 ment of these cutting points is seen in Z. capnodes (pi. II., fig. 6 ; 

 pi. III., fig. 12). I have given on pi. III., fig. 12, an enlarged view 

 of a central in Z. capnodes ; abed, gives the base of attachment, 

 e the reflected portion of the tooth,// the subobsolete side cusps, 

 h the median cusp, i the cutting point of the median cusp, g g 

 the cutting points of the side cusps. The general outline of the 

 central tooth is graceful and slender as compared with the other 

 genera, except Limax and Vitrina. 



The lateral teeth in Zonites are of the same type as the central 

 but are rendered unsymmetrical (as usual in the land shells) by, 

 the suppression of the inner, lower, lateral expansion of the base 

 of attachment and the inner side cusp and cutting point. It is 



1 The characters of the separate teeth of this species are better shown in 

 pi. XVII., fig. 3. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



only in Z. Gundlachi (pi. III., fig. 10) that I have observed the 

 inner side cutting point, and in this species, even, the lateral teeth 

 are still sufficiently nnsymmetrical to be readily distinguished from 

 the centrals; in Z. Binneyanus there is also a kind of inner cut- 

 ting point. As mentioned above, the number of these lateral 

 teeth varies in the respective species, and is so nearly constant as 

 to be, I believe, a good specific character. I find, however, some 

 difficulty in deciding in all cases where the true laterals end and 

 the transition teeth commence, so gradual is the change in some 

 species. Of two Unguals of Z. intertextus examined, I found one 

 to have 12, the other 14, perfect laterals. The number of lateral 

 teeth in the different species is given below. 



The teeth forming the gradual change from laterals to marginals 

 are best illustrated in the case of Z. Isevigatus (pi. II., fig. 2), the 

 first four side teeth being transition teeth. As already stated 

 above, this species wants entirely the perfect laterals. In Z. eel- 

 larius (pi. II., fig. 3) the two transition teeth have an inner lateral 

 spur near the top of the cusp. The only lateral of this species 

 has also peculiarities in its form easily seen in the figure, but diffi- 

 cult of description. 



The marginal teeth of Zonites are quite like those of Glandina 

 and Macrocyclis (see above). The curve of the transverse rows, 

 the rapid increase and gradual decrease in size as they pass off 

 laterally, is shown in pi. II., fig. 1, 3, and in the several wood-cuts 

 I have given. The number of marginal teeth in each species ex- 

 amined is given below ; it must be borne in mind, however, that 

 the number is not constant in any given species, though the range 

 of variation in number seems limited in the respective species. 

 Thus, though I have found a slight difference in the count of teeth 

 of Z. inomatus, I have every reason to believe I shall never find 

 it to have as many teeth as in Z.fuliginosus. It appears, there- 

 fore, that the count of teeth has a decided specific value, at least 

 in most cases. 



The rapid increase and subsequent gradual decrease in size of 

 the teeth as they pass off laterally, though it appears usually a 

 generic character, is somewhat modified in some species. Thus in 

 one lingual membrane of Z. intertextus examined I find a much 

 more gradual and regular decrease from the first to the last mar- 

 ginal tooth. 



The marginal teeth in Zonites, and, indeed, all the Vitrininx, are 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



more separated than in Helix, and the separate rows are more 

 widely removed the one from the other, especially near the outer 

 margin of the membrane. 



Though the simple aculeate form of marginals seems a generic 

 character in Zonites, we find the marginals bifid in Z.fulvus (pi. 

 XVII., fig. 5), and bifid or even trifid in Z. Gundlachi (pi. III., fig. 

 10), also for the first four marginals in milium. This character 

 reminds us of Vitrina (see belowj ; Vitrinoconus (Semper, Phil. 

 Archip., 91) ; Vitrinoidea (Ibid., p. 85) ; Vitrinojysis (Ibid., p. 86), 

 and the numerous genera of disintegrated Nanina ; also some 

 species of Limax. The first marginals of Z. exiguus have a side 

 spur. 



Taking the general characters of dentition into consideration 

 Zonites is nearest allied to Limax among our genera, but in the 

 latter the marginals are generally more slender "or spine-like, and 

 have a less sole-like base of attachment. 



The approximate count of teeth in the various species now 

 follows : 



Zonites capnodes (pi. III., fig. 12; pi. II., fig. 6) has 66 1 66 

 teeth, with 9 perfect laterals on each side the median row. An- 

 other specimen gave 46 1 46 teeth, with 70 rows of teeth in all. 



Z.fuliginosus (pi. II., fig. 7) gave 87 rows of 64 1 64 teeth. 

 Another specimen 57 1 57. Both linguals have 4 perfect laterals. 

 Fig. 6 gives the eighth marginal from the outer edge. 



Z. friabilis (pi. II., fig. 4) has 57 1 57 teeth with 6 laterals. 

 Fig. b gives the extreme marginals of two adjacent rows. 



Z. caducus 1 is known only by the description and figure of 

 Fischer and Crosse (Moll. Mex. et Guat. 149, pi. VIII., fig. 13-16). 

 There are 75 1 75 teeth with 5 laterals. 



Zonites Isevigatus (pi. II., fig. 1, 2) is peculiar in having no cut- 

 ting points to the side cusps of the central teeth, and no perfect 

 lateral teeth. I found in one specimen 28 rows of 19 1 19 teeth. 

 Another specimen had 17 1 17 teeth. One-half of one transverse 

 row with the central tooth is figured on pi. II., fig. 1. A more 

 enlarged view of a portion is given in fig. 2. 



1 I will here mention that Semper, Archip., Phil. 78, pi. III., fig. 27; 

 pi. V., fig. 21, figures the genitalia, jaw, and dentition of a Zonites from 

 Tennessee, which he refers to Z. lucubratiis, Say. I do not know what 

 species he had before him. Z. lucubratw is not found in Tennessee. See 

 Ann. K Y. Lye. N. H., pi. XL, fig. 24. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1G5 



Z. demissus (pi. III., fig. 6, 6 is the 15th tooth) has 45 1 45 

 teeth, with 15 laterals. My specimen was one of the large East 

 Tennessee form, called Z. acerrus by Dr. Lewis. The typical form 

 from near Mobile has, however, a perfectly similar dentition. 



Z. ligerus (pi. III., fig. 11,6 is the 18th tooth ; c, a profile of one 

 nearer the central line). Teeth 38 1 38 with 14 laterals. 



Z. intertextus (pi. III., fig. 8, 6 is from near the outer margin). 

 1 find difficulty in counting the teeth on one specimen examined 

 by me, but I believe there are 61-*-l 61. There are 12 perfect 

 laterals. Another specimen has 55 1 55 with 12 laterals 

 Z. subplanus, not examined. 



Z. inornatus (pi. II., fig. 5, fig. 6 is the 21st tooth). One spe- 

 cimen had 37 rows of 23123 teeth. Another had 26126. 

 Both had only two perfect laterals. 



Z. sculptilis (pi. III., fig. 2, 6 are extreme marginals) 40 1 40 

 teeth with 4 perfect laterals. 



Z. Elliotti (pi. III., fig. 5, 6 an extreme marginal) 32 1 32 

 teeth with 6 perfect laterals. 

 Z. cerinoideus, not examined. 



Z. cellarius (pi. II., fig. 2, one-half of one transverse line with 

 the median tooth) 14 1 14 teeth. There can hardly be said to 

 be one perfect lateral. For the other abnormal characters of this 

 lingual membrane see p. 163. The figures of dentition of the 

 foreign form (by Lehmann, Lindstrom, etc.) agree with mine. 

 Z. Whitneyi, n6t examined. 



Z. nitidus. See Lehmann, Lebenden Schneckcn, etc. p. 72, pi. 

 X., fig. 23, for description and figure of the European form. In a 

 specimen from Baldwin County, Alabama, furnished by Dr. E. R. 

 Showalter, I find 25125 teeth with 5 laterals (pi. XYIL, fig. 

 7, 6 is an extreme marginal.) Lehmann gives 28 1 28. 



The specimen examined had the dart-sac and dart described in 

 the European form. 



Z. arboreus. Morse gives 82 rows of 21 1 21 teeth each. 

 My specimen (pi. XVII., fig. 4, b is an extreme marginal) has 

 about 16 1 16 with 5 perfect laterals. There are distinct side 

 cusps as well as cutting points to the central and lateral teeth. 



Z. viridulus (pi. XYIL, fig. 6). Morse gives 54 rows of 

 27 1 27 teeth each. I have figured the central and first lateral, 

 with one extreme marginal tooth, drawn from a specimen furnished 

 me by Mr. Allen of Orono, Maine. I find three lateral teeth. 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Morse gives a similar figure. The European Z. viridulus as 

 figured by Lebmann (Z. purus) has a similar dentition ; be gives 

 23 1 23 teeth, with 3 laterals. 



There are decided side cups as well as cutting points to central 

 and lateral teeth. 



Z. indebitatus (pi. XVII., fig. 3). The lingual examined has 

 38 1 38 teeth, with 3 perfect laterals. Morse counted 53 rows 

 of 39 1 39 teeth, also three perfect laterals. 



Z. limatulus (pi. III., fig. 3)? has 23 1 23 with 5 laterals. 



Z. minusculus (pi. XXL, fig. 9). Morse's figure shows four 

 perfect laterals. He counted 52 rows of 12 1 12 teeth. It will 

 be noticed that his figure does not show the cutting points of the 

 side cups of the central and lateral teeth, which I have found in 

 specimens lately examined from Florida. I found a similar num- 

 ber of teeth. 



Z. milium is described by Morse (fig. 6), as having 68 rows, of 

 17 1 17 teeth, with only 2 perfect laterals. The next six teeth 



Fig. 6. 



Z. milium. 



are shown to be bifid, not only the one or two transition teeth, 

 but the decided marginals. I have also drawn the membrane of 

 this species (pi. XVII., fig. 8). I found 18118 teeth, with 3 

 laterals. 



The peculiarity of the lingual of this species is the great de- 

 velopment of the central tooth. The jaw also is peculiar in having 

 vertical channels worn upon its anterior surface, extending down 

 to the cutting margin (see fig. 7, copied from Morse). These chan- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



167 



Jaw of Z. milium. 

 [Morge.] 



Fig. 7. nels are probably worn by the greatly de- 



veloped central tooth of the lingual membrane. 

 I do not agree with Morse in considering the 

 great development of the central tooth, and 

 the channels on the jaw as generic characters. 

 Z. Binneyanus is described by Morse with 60 rows of 23 1 23 

 teeth, with two perfect laterals which have a form of inner side 

 cutting point. 



On pi. XVII., fig. 13, I give a figure of the teeth on a membrane 

 examined by me, kindly furnished by Mr. Anson Allen, of Orono, 

 Maine. I find 19119 teeth, with 3 laterals. I doubt there being 

 any inner cutting points to the lateral teeth. 



Z. ferreus (pi. XVII., fig. 9), is described by Morse with 39 



rows of 20120 teeth. I 

 found 20120 teeth also, 

 with 2 laterals. The cen- 

 tral tooth is greatly de- 

 veloped, and the jaw (fig. 

 8) has vertical median 

 channels, or groves, as in 

 Z. milium (see above, fig. 7). 

 Z. conspectus, not examined. 

 Z. exigitus. I give here a copy of Morse's figure, having 69 



Fisr. 8. 



Jaw of Z. ferreus. [Morse.] 



Fig. 9. 



Z. exiguu8. 



rows of 16 1 16 teeth, with 4 perfect laterals. The transition 

 teeth and several of the adjoining marginals are described \>y 

 Morse with a small side spur to their cusps, apparently of the 

 same type as I have figured for Macrocyclis Vancouverensis (pi. 

 I., fig. 4). On pi. XVII., p. 14, 1 give a drawing of a specimen 

 examined by me. I found 16 1 16 teeth with 5 laterals. 

 Z. chersinellus, not examined. 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Z. capsella (pi. III., fig. 4), 25 1 25 teeth, with 3 perfect 

 laterals, and one transition tooth. 



Z. fulvus. Morse gives 80 rows of 18 1 18 teeth, with 7 

 laterals. The specimen examined by me (from Orono, Maine) 

 h as 30 1 30 teeth with 8 perfect laterals. The difference in the 

 marginals is unusual for two individuals of the same species. 



The peculiarity of the lingual is the bifurcation of all the mar- 

 ginal teeth. On pi. XVII., fig. 5, I have drawn one central with 

 its adjacent lateral, and one marginal extracted from a Maine 

 specimen. 



By the bifurcation of the marginals this species is allied to Z. 

 Gu7idlachi,v?hich, however, has even some of its marginals tricus- 

 pid, and tricuspid laterals. 



The American form here under consideration was described by 

 Mr. Say under the name chersina. Judging from its shell alone, 

 it seems identical with the European L. fulvus. It has thus been 

 considered one of the circumpolar species common to the three 

 continents. My confidence of this identity is now shaken by a 

 study of the description and figure by Lehmann (Lebenden 

 Schnecken, etc., p. 79, pi. X., fig. 24), of the dentition of the Eu- 

 ropean Z. fulvus. He gives 86-100 rows of 25 1 25 teeth, the 

 first two laterals he makes tricuspid, while they are only bicuspid 

 in our form. The marginals appear to be bifid. The question of 

 identity must therefore be considered as still open. 



Z. Fabricii, not examined. 



Z. Gundlachi (pi. III., fig. 10, &, shows two marginals from two 

 adjoining transverse rows), 23 1 23 teeth, with 4 perfect laterals. 

 This lingual is peculiar in having its marginals bluntly bifid, as 

 in Nanina and Vitrina. Some of the marginals are even trifid. 

 The laterals are also tricuspid. 



Z. Stearnsi, not examined. 



Z. gularis (pi. III., fig. 1), has 30130 teeth, with 10 perfect 

 laterals. 



Z. siippressus (pi. XVI., fig. 2, b are marginals from near the 

 edge of the membrane). Teeth 30130, with 8 perfect laterals. 



Z. lasmodon (pi. III., fig. 7, b the smaller figure shows the 38th 

 tooth). Teeth 41141, with 9 perfect laterals. 



Z. signifcans (pi. XVII., fig. 10). 16 116, with 2 perfect 

 laterals. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



169 



Z. interims (pi. III., fig. 9, b shows the 17th and 18th teeth, c 

 the last tooth). Teeth 28128, with 4 laterals. 



Z. multidentatus (pi. XVII., fig. 1). The lingual examined had 

 14 1 14 teeth, with 2 perfect laterals. Morse gives 68 rows 

 with 15 1 15 teeth, also 2 perfect laterals. 



After my paper was prepared I have had an opportunity of 

 examining the jaw and tongue of Z. Lansingi. It will be seen 

 below that its ribbed jaw and aculeate marginal teeth do not sus- 

 tain my assertion (p. 146) that for the larger divisions these organs 

 may be relied on as systematic characters. The result of my ex- 

 amination of this species was as unexpected as it is puzzling. 



Fig. 10. 



Jaw (fig. 10, A) low, wide, slightly arcuate; ends scarcely at- 

 tenuated, blunt ; cutting margin without median projection ; an- 

 terior surface with 14 broad, unequal, crowded, flat ribs, slightly 

 denticulating either margin. 



The first impression given by the jaw is that it bears narrow, 

 separated ribs, as in Bulimulus, Gylindrella, etc. A more care- 

 ful study of it, however, shows the ribs to be very broad, crowded, 

 flat, with narrow interstices between them. 



Lingual membrane with 17 1 17 teeth : 6 laterals. Centrals 

 (fig. 10, B) with the base of attachment longer than wide, the lower 

 lateral angles expanded ; upper margin broadly reflected ; reflec- 

 tion very short, tricuspid ; side cusps decidedly developed, short, 

 bearing distinct cutting points; median cusp long, slender, bulg- 

 ing at sides, reaching nearly to the lower edge of the base of 

 12 




no 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



attachment, beyond which projects slightly the distinct, long 

 cutting point. Laterals like the centrals, but unsymmetrical by 

 the suppression of the inner, lower angle of the base of attach- 

 ment, and inner side cusp and cutting point. Marginals (C) acule- 

 ate, their bases of attachment less sole-like than in Zonites, but 

 more circular in outline. 



Fig. 10, C, shows these bases of attachment. Fig. 10, D, gives 

 one marginal tooth in profile. 



This is the first known instance of a species with ribs on its 

 jaw having aeuleate marginal teeth, or of a species furnished with 

 a Zonites-like shell having decided ribs upon the jaw. It will be 

 difficult to find a place for the species under any description of 

 genus or subfamily. The shell is that of Zonites, but that genus 

 has a ribless jaw with median projection. 



Fig. 11. 



Fisr. 12. 



Fig. 13. 



Jaw of Z. arboreus. [Morse.] Jaw of Z.fuliginosus. Jaw of Z. indent at us. [Morse] 



Fig. 14. 



The jaw of Zonites is arcuate, ends acuminated, often recurved ; 

 anterior surface without ribs ; cutting margin with a beak-like 

 projection. 



I have examined the jaws of almost all the species enumerated 

 above. There is considerable variation in their form, but the 



general characters are constant. 

 Sometimes there is a vertical me- 

 dian carina, as in Z. minusculus. 

 Some species have vertical striae, 

 especially on the middle of the 

 jaw (see fig. 14). Some have strong 

 transverse lines of reinforcement 

 (see fig. 12 ). In several species, 

 such as Z. viridulus and Z. Bin- 

 neyanus (fig. 14), Morse has detected projecting points on the 

 cutting edge of the side of the median beak. But I did not find 

 them in a specimen of the last species examined by me; it is very 

 high. That of Z. exiguus is very low. The median vertical 

 grooves in some species have been mentioned above (fig. 1 and 8). 

 Formerly I separated the above species into two genera, 



Jaw of Z. Binneyanus. [Morse.] 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



171 



Fig. 15. 



Zonites and Hyalina, respectively characterized by the presence or 

 absence of a distinct locomotive disk to the foot, 

 and well-marked furrows running above, and 

 parallel to, the edge of the foot, meeting above 

 the extremity of the tail over a distinct caudal 

 mucous pore (fig. 15). I now place them all in 

 Zonites, as all I have examined are so charac- 

 terized, and I believe all will prove to be so. (See Ann. N. Y. 

 Lye. N. H., X. 164.)' 



The external orifice of the generative organs in the species I 

 have examined is quite under the mantle, not on the right side of 

 the head, as inadvertently stated on p. 29 of L. and Frw. Shells, I. 



Tail of Zonites 

 suppressus, enlarged 



Genus VITRINA, Drap. 



To the description of the animal on p. 29 of L. and Frw. Sh.N. 

 A., I., must be added the fact of there being a distinct locomotive 

 disk to the foot. 



Fig. 16. 



Lingual dentition of V. limpida. [Morse.] 



The jaw is highly arched, ends acuminated, blunt ; anterior sur- 

 face smooth ; cutting margin with a prominent beak-like median 

 projection. I have figured the jaw of V. limpida on pi. XVI., fig. 

 3. I have found it to be the same in V. exilis and Pfeifferi. I 

 have not examined either jaw or lingual membrane in V. Angelicas. 

 Fig. 16 gives a general idea of the lingual membrane. The cen- 

 trals have a quadrangular base of attachment, longer than broad: 



' I have also observed the caudal pore in limatulus. Z. arboreus has the 

 longitudinal furrows, but on account of the transparent tissue of the foot I 

 find it difficult to distinguish any caudal pore. 



In Z. ligerus there are well-marked lines running obliquely towards the 

 centre of the base of the foot, where is an extremely narrow T line,. repre- 

 senting, no doubt, the locomotive disk. The other characters of Zonites 

 are present in the species. 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The reflection is short, with three distinct cusps, the median long 

 and slender, bulging at the sides, the outer ones very short; all 

 the cusps bear cutting points in proportion to their length. The 

 lateral teeth are arranged in straight transverse rows. They are 

 like the centrals, but unsym metrical by the partial suppression of 

 the inner side cusp and inner lower lateral expansion of the base 

 of attachment, and the complete suppression of the cutting point 

 to the inner side cusp. The marginals have a sole-shaped base of 

 attachment, and truly aculeate cutting points, which, however, 

 are bluntly bifid at their points. The marginals are in oblique, 

 curving rows, gradually decreasing in size of the teeth as they 

 pass off laterally. They do not first increase and then decrease, as 

 in Zonites and Glandina, or not, at all events, to the same degree. 

 In V. limpida, as stated below, the seventh marginal appears, 

 however, to be the largest. 



In V. limpida I have counted 30 1 30 teeth, with 9 perfect 

 laterals. The seventh marginal is the largest. Another gave 

 39 1 39, with 10 perfect laterals. The membrane figured by 

 Morse had 25 1 25 teeth, with 9 laterals. I have figured of this 

 species on pi. IV. one central and its adjacent lateral in fig. 8 a, 

 and the twenty-third tooth, which is one of the marginals, in 

 fig. 8 6. 



Vitrina exilis has about 37 1 37 teeth, with 7 perfect laterals. 

 I have given on pi. IV., fig. 7 a, one central and lateral ; 6, a group 

 of marginals; c, an extreme marginal. 



Vitrina Pfeifferi has over 50 1 50, with 10 perfect laterals. 

 I figure a group of centrals and laterals, pi. IV., fig. 6 a, and one 

 extreme marginal in b. 



Genus UMAX, Lin. 



The character of the mantle and the peculiarities of the lingual 

 dentition have suggested various subdivisions of this genus into 

 sections, sub-genera, and even genera. I propose, however, to 

 consider the genus in its widest sense, as generally adopted. It 

 will be seen that even in the few species existing in North Ame- 

 rica, there is considerable variation in the lingual dentition, espe- 

 cially in the bifurcation or non-bifurcation of the marginal teeth, 

 the development of the side cusps to the central and lateral teeth, 

 and the presence or absence of distinct cutting points to these 

 cusps. I shall, however, simply describe the dentition of our 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



species, leaving the question of subgeneric division to the future, 

 and to abler hands. 



As some confusion exists in regard to the specimens furnishing 

 the descriptions and figures published in this country, I have 

 taken pains to be sure of the specific identity of each specimen 

 now before me. 



The L. maximum was collected in Newport, R. I., by my friend, 

 Mr. Sam. Powel- It is the same individual figured on p. 408 of 

 my edition of Gould's Invertebrata of Massachusetts. The ex- 

 ternal markings of the animal are conclusive proofs of its identity 

 with the European species. I have, however, made it still more 

 certain by examining the genitalia, which I find agree with those 

 of L. maximus, figured by Lehmann (Lebenden Sehnecken, etc.). 

 I find the dentition agrees also with the figures given by Heyne- 

 mann (Malak. Blatt. X.), Lehmann (1. c), and Goldfuss (Verhl. 

 Naturh. Vereins der Preuss. Rheinl., etc.). 



The L. flavus was collected in a cellar in Burlington, N. J. It 

 not only agrees with the figure in the " Terrestrial Mollusks" as 

 far as its outward markings are concerned, but I find also its 

 genitalia to agree with Dr. Leidy's figure in the same work, and 

 also with the figure given by Moquiu-Tandon (Moll. Fr.). Its 

 dentition agrees with the figures of Heynemann and Semper 

 (Arch. Phil.). 



The L. agrestis was collected in a garden in Burlington, N. J. 

 This species I have also found to agree with the figures of the 

 external animal and genitalia given in the " Terrestrial Mollusks," 

 as well as with Moquin-Tandon's (Moll. Terr, et Fluv. de la 

 France) figure of the genitalia, and Heynemann's and Leh- 

 mann's figure of the dentition ; also with the figure of the geni- 

 talia given by Schmidt and Lehmann. 



The Limax campestris examined was collected in the country 

 near Burlington, N. J., by my friend, A. Ten Eyck Lansing. It 

 agrees with the description and figures in the " Terrestrial Mol- 

 lusks," not only as to its external characters, but in its genitalia. 

 I will here mention that its dentition does not as;ree with that of 

 L. Weinlandi, Heynemann (1. c. p. 212), supposed by that author 

 to be the same species. 



The Limax ffewstoni examined is a typical specimen, given by 

 Dr. J. G. Cooper to the State Collection of California. It was 

 labelled by him. There can be no doubt, therefore, of its identity. 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The Limax Ingersolli was received since this paper was com- 

 menced. It has not yet been described. 



Being thus confident of the identity of the species before me, I 

 will proceed to describe their jaws and dentition in detail. 



I have examined the jaw of all the species, finding it to agree 

 with the well-known character of the jaw in the genus. It is 

 arcuate with slightly attenuated, but blunt ends; 

 anterior surface smooth, cutting margin with a 

 decided beak-like median projection. There is 

 often a central vertical carina to the jaw. The 

 ends are often more pointed than in the jaw 



Jaw of Limax. i <> 



figured. 



Limax maximns, Linn. (pi. IV., fig. 4) has about 76 1 76 

 teeth. The centrals have a large, subquadrate base of attachment. 

 The reflection is large, subquadrate, and bears a single stout 

 median cusp, which has a short cutting point, often longer than 

 in the teeth figured ; the side cusps are subobsolete, and bear no 

 cutting points. The lateral teeth, about 18 in number, are like 

 the centrals, but unsymmetrical. The marginal teeth are aculeate. 

 Only a few are simple, as in fig. b, the balance are bifid, as in fig. 

 c. The bifurcation of the marginals commences much nearer the 

 median line than in the specimens examined by Lehmann and 

 Heynemann. There are, indeed, but twelve marginals without the 

 bifurcation on one membrane examined. 



Limax Jlaviis, 1 Linn. (pi. IV., fig. 1). The specimen examined 

 has about 60 1 60 teeth, with 16 laterals. The centrals and 

 laterals are of the same type as in L. maximus, the outer mar- 

 ginals are also bifid. PI. IV., fig. 1, represents the dentition of the 

 species. On other portions of the same membrane the cutting 

 points are longer and sharper. Fig. c represents an extreme 

 marginal. Both of the figures of this species, published by me, 8 

 were drawn from lingual membranes of another species. 



Limax agrestis, 3 Linn. (pi. IV., fig. 3, a. 6. c.) has about 50 1 



1 L. and Frw. Sh. N. A., I. p. 63, fig. 105, is no doubt L. agrestis. Fig. 

 6, p. 285, of Ann. Lye. N. H., N. Y., vol. IX., would more correctly repre- 

 sent the dentition of this species, if the extreme marginals were bifid. 



2 The description and figure given by Morse ( Journ. Portland Soc. N. H. 

 1864, 7, fig. 1) of the jaw of this species could not have been drawn from 

 any Limax, as it is said to be ribbed. The figure of the lingual membrane, 

 also (pi. III., fig. 2), does not give the impression of aculeate marginals. 



3 The figure given of the marginals of L. agrestis, by Lindstrom (Gotlands 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



50 teeth, with 18 perfect laterals. The centrals have a much more 

 graceful outline to the reflection than in the two last-named 

 species. The median cusp is longer and more slender, with a more 

 slender cutting point ; the subobsolete side cusps are more marked, 

 and bear well developed, triangular, slightly curved cutting points. 

 The lateral teeth are like the centrals, but unsymmetrical by the 

 suppression of the inner lateral lower expansion of the base of 

 attachment. There is, however, an inner cutting point lying 

 against the inner side of the cusp, rather than in a position cor- 

 responding to the outer cutting point ; it is very difficult of de- 

 tection, being on a different plane from the outer cutting point, 

 and readily confounded with the inner lower angle of the base of 

 attachment. It is figured by Lehmann and Heynemann. The 

 marginals are long and slender, without bifurcation even on those 

 on the extreme edge of the membrane. Fig. 105 of p. 63 of L. 

 and Frw. Shells N. A. I., probably was drawn from a specimen 

 of this species, certainly not from one of flavus. 



Goldfuss (1. c. pi. V., fig. 4) omits the cutting points from his 

 figure. 



Limax Heivstoni, J. G. Cooper (pi. IV., fig. 2). The centrals 

 and laterals are of the same type as in the last species, witli this 

 important difference, that there is a well-developed cutting point 

 of the usual form (not the peculiar form as in L. agreslis) to the 

 inner subobsolete cusp of the laterals, and the inner lower lateral 

 expansion of the base of attachment of the laterals is not sup- 

 pressed as usual to make the laterals unsymmetrical. From this 

 it follows that the central teeth are with difficult}' distinguished 

 from the laterals, until the outer ones are reached, when the inner 

 cutting point and inner lower lateral expansion of the base of 

 attachment are suppressed as in the other species of Limax. The 

 marginal teeth are not bifid. Teeth 30 1 30, with 14 perfect 

 laterals. Fig. b represents the very last marginals. As in the 

 membranes of almost all species of land shells, there is consider- 

 able difference in the marginals on different portions of the same 

 membrane. Those figured are the least slender. 



This species, by the presence of the inner cutting point of the 

 laterals and non-bifurcation of the marginals, resembles Limax 

 (Amalia) gagates, as figured by Semper (Phil. Archip., pi. XI.), and 



nutkla Mollusker, pi. I., fig. 3), disagrees with my observation by the bifur- 

 cation of the marginals. 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Amalia marginata, as figured by Heynemann (1. c. pi. III., fig. 7). 

 Goldfuss also (1. c. 1856, pi. IV., fig. 3) figures the dentition of 

 L. marginatum as the same. 



Limax camjyestris, Binney (pi. IV., fig. 5, a. b. c). One speci- 

 men has 40 1 40 teeth, 18 perfect laterals. Another gives 

 36 1 36, with 11 perfect laterals. The centrals and laterals ai-e 

 of the same t} r pe as described above in L. agrestis, excepting that 

 there is no peculiar inner side cutting point to the first laterals. 

 About half of the marginals are bifid. I find great difficulty, 

 however, in detecting any bifurcation on the extreme marginals. 



As stated above, Heynemann's figure of the dentition of L. Wein- 

 Jandi could not have been drawn from this species. I have no in- 

 formation in regard to L. Weinlandi other than what I find in 

 Malak. Blatt. X. 212, pi. III., fig. 1. Judging from the dentition 

 alone I should hardly consider it distinct from agrestis. 



L. campestris differs greatly in its genitalia from L. agrestis, 

 to which it has been compared. 



This completes the list of North American Limaces now known. 

 I will add that maximus and Jiavus are put by Heynemann in the 

 s. g. Heynemannia ; agrestis in s. g. Agriolimax ; campestris 

 would be placed by him in s. g. Malacolimax ; while Hewstoni 

 would be placed b} r him in the genus Amalia. 



Since the above was written I have received specimens collected 

 in the mountains of Colorado by Mr. Ernest Ingersoll, of a species 

 for which I propose the name L. Ingersolli. A full description 

 will be published later. I wdl here simply state that there are 

 50 1 50 teeth, with 16 perfect laterals. All the marginals have 

 a blunt spur to the cutting point, so that they may be said to be 

 biuntly bifid. 



The dentition of Limax is nearly allied to that of Zonites. The 

 lateral teeth are arranged in straight transverse rows, the mar- 

 ginals in oblique rows, as aculeate marginal teeth always are. 

 This tendency to obliquity in the rows of aculeate teeth we have 

 seen most plainly shown in Glandina. To show the general 

 arrangement of the teeth in straight and oblique rows I repeat 

 the figure by Morse in L. and Frw. Sh. N. A. I., which was pro- 

 bably drawn from L. agrestis. It must be borne in mind that this 

 figure is not intended to show the characters of the separate teeth, 

 for which I refer to my plate. 



The genus Limax differs from Zonites in its dentition by hav- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



m 



ing more slender, spine-like marginals, instead of the short, 

 strictly aculeate form. The base of attachment of the marginals 

 in Limax is also different, being less sole-like, and more irregu- 

 larly circular on the extreme marginals. Another difference is 



Fig. 18. 



Lingual dentition of Limax. 



that the marginal teeth do not increase in size so rapidly, and 

 then decrease gradually as they pass off laterally, thus giving an 

 irregularly crescentic form to each half of every transverse row. 

 In L. maximus the marginal teeth decrease gradually in size from 

 the first to the last. It is the same with agrestis, and I believe 

 the character to be generic. 



b. Jaw in one single piece, marginal teeth quadrate. Helicin^e. 



In grouping the genera of Helicinse, I have placed (1) those 

 whose jaw has no distinct ribs upon its anterior surface; (2) 

 those whose jaw has decided stout vertical anterior ribs; (3) 

 those whose jaw has delicate, distant ribs generally running ob- 

 liquely towards the median line of the jaw. 



(1) Jaw without decided ribs on its anterior surface. 



Genus PATTJLA, Held. 



In none of the American species of this genus have I found a 

 jaw with distinct well-formed ribs as in Helix. In several species, 



Fig. 19. 



Fig. 20. 



Fig. 21. 



Jaw of P. 

 alternate/,. 



Jaw of Patula asteriscus. [Morse.] Jaw of Patulu striatella. [Morse.] 



however, such as strigosa and Cooperi, there are distinct traces of 




178 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



subobsolete ribs near the cutting margin. In asteriscus there are 

 coarse wrinkles, resembling subobsolete ribs. In perspectiva, 

 striatella, and Idahoensis there are such wrinkles, and also coarse 

 vertical stria?. I have not found the striae as oblique as shown in 

 fig. 20. In solitara, alternata, and Hemphilli there are no traces 

 of either ribs, wrinkles or striae. In all tiiese species there is a 

 tendenc} r to a median projection to the cutting edge. This is 

 greatly developed in solilaria, alternate/,, and especially in Hemp- 

 hilli. The last two species have also a much more arcuate jaw 

 than the others. I have not seen the jaw of Haydeni, Cumber- 

 landianaj tenuistriata, Horni, pauper, incrustata, or vortex. 



Patula is described by von Martens as having a ribbed jaw, 

 which does not agree with my observations on the jaw of our 

 North American species. As there appears considerable confusion 

 in regard to the limits of the genus, I think it best to make no 

 reference here to any species foreign to America. 



Fig. 22. 



Lingual dentition of P. alternata, [Morce] 



Fig. 22 shows the general arrangement of the teeth on the 

 membrane. The characters of the individual teeth are better 

 shown on my plate VII. 



There is considerable difference in the lingual dentition of the 

 species I have grouped in this genus as to the development of the 

 side cusps to the central and lateral teeth, and the presence of dis- 



1 I have lately received a specimen from University Place, Tenn., from 

 Dr. Elliott. The jaw has very coarse perpendicular stria?. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



tinct cutting points upon these cusps. Such cusps and points are 

 present in solitaria (pi. VII., fig. 9), alternata (fig. 5), perspectiva 

 (fig. 3), striatella (fig. 10), Hemphilli (fig. 6), Idahoensis (fig. 4), 

 asteriseus (pi. XVIII., fig. 9). 



I do not detect these cusps in P. strigosa (pi. VII., fig. 1), 

 Cooperi (fig. 2), probabty the same species, or Cumberlandiana, 

 excepting on the outer laterals (see pi. VII., fig. 1 d). 



The central and lateral teeth of all the species examined by me 

 are, in other respects, as usual in the Helicinse. It will be noticed 

 that the base of attachment is subquadrate, the reflected portion 

 large (except in asteriseus), the cusps short, the cutting points 

 short. 



All the outlines of the teeth are less graceful than in Zonites. 

 The lateral teeth are made unsymmetrical b} r the suppression of 

 the inner lower angle of the base of attachment, and the less de- 

 velopment, if not suppression, of the inner cusp, which loses the 

 cutting point also. The marginal teeth are quite different from 

 those of Zonites, Limax, Vitrina, Macrocyclis, and Glandina in 

 not being aculeate. They are more crowded than in those genera. 

 The} r have a quadrate base of attachment, not sole-like, shortened 

 on its inner lower side, but produced at its outer lower margin. 

 The reflected portion is as wide as the base of attachment, is more 

 produced than in the central and lateral teeth, retains its width 

 throughout, and bears two oblique, blunt cutting points, the inner 

 one always much the larger and longer, and the outer one of 

 which, in most of the species, has a tendency to bifurcation. 

 There is considerable variation in these cutting points even in the 

 same lingual membrane, but as a general thing it may be said that 

 the marginal teeth are but a modification of the form of the 

 laterals. They decrease in size greatly at the outer edge of the 

 lingual membrane. 



It must be borne in mind that the cutting points vary in de- 

 velopment on different portions of any one lingual membrane. I 

 have in each case chosen for drawing such individual teeth as 

 appear best to illustrate the general character of the dentition. 



In P. strigosa (pi. VII., fig. 1) there are 50 1 50 teeth, with 

 15 perfect laterals, c is an extreme marginal. I give in fig. e a 

 central tooth drawn from the membrane of an embryonic young 

 found in the oviduct. 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



P. solitaria (pi. VII., fig. 9) has 25125 teeth, with 14 perfect 

 laterals. The transition to marginals is very gradual. 



P. Gooperi (pi. VII., fig. 2), 29129, with 11 perfect laterals. 



P. Hemphilli (pi. VII., fig. 6) has 20120 teeth, with 7 perfect 

 laterals. 



P. Idahoensis (pi. VII., fig. 4) has 33133 teeth, with 14 

 perfect laterals. The transition from the laterals to the marginals, 

 however, is very gradual. 



P. Haydeni not examined. 



P. alternata (pi. VII., fig. 5). One membrane has 121 rows of 

 34 l 34 teeth, ten of which are perfect laterals. The variet}* - 

 mordax, pi. VII., fig. T, agrees with it in dentition, except the 

 number of teeth. I counted 20 1 20, with 5 perfect laterals. 



P. Cumberlandiana (pi. VII., fig. 8) has 24 1 24 teeth, with 

 about 13 perfect laterals. There is an appearance of a side cutting 

 point to the third tooth, a decided one beyond the sixth. 



P. tenuistriata, not examined. 



P. perspectiva (pi. VII., fig. 3), 15 1 15 teeth, 7 perfect 

 laterals. 



P. striatella (pi. VII., fig. 10), 20120 teeth, with 8 perfect 

 laterals. Morse gives 16 1 16. 



P. vortex (pi. XX., fig. 4), 18 1 18, with 8 laterals. A marginal 

 tooth is shown in b. 



P. Ingersolli, Bland. The species should, perhaps, be placed 

 in Microphym. Jaw of same type as in H. Lansingi (above), with 

 22 ribs. Teeth 16 1 16, with a gradual change from laterals to 

 marginals. The latter are low, wide, with one inner, long, blunt 

 cutting point, and one outer, small, blunt. The side cusps and 

 cutting points of centrals and laterals are well developed. 



P. pauper, Horni, incrustata, not examined. 



P. asteriscus (pi. XVIII., fig. 9). Morse gives 77 rows of 

 13 1 13 teeth ; 6 perfect laterals. I counted 11 1 11, with 5 

 perfect laterals. The reflected portion of the central teeth is quite 

 small. The marginal teeth are like those of Pupa. 



It will be seen that Patula diners from all the preceding genera 

 by the presence of quadrate, not aculeate, marginal teeth, a 

 character shared by all the succeeding genera. There does not 

 appear any very essential character in the dentition by which to 

 distinguish it from many of American sub-genera of Helix, as will 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



181 



be seen below. It will be noticed that one species, asteriscus, has 

 marginal teeth like those of Pupa and Vertigo. 



Fig. 23. 



Genus HEMITROCHUS, Sw. 



In Ann. Lye. N. H.of N. Y., X., 341, 1 have, in connection with 

 my friend Mr. Bland, shown the necessity of using this name in 

 preference to Polymita. 



The jaw is arched with acuminated ends, smooth anterior surface, 

 and decided median prominence to cutting margin. 

 Fig. 23 represents the jaw of H. varians. The lin- 

 gual membrane (pi. XIII., fig. 1) has about 33 1 33 

 teeth, another specimen gave 43 1 43 teeth, with 

 17 perfect laterals. The central tooth has a long, 

 narrow base of attachment with lower, outer angular 

 expansions and incurved lower margin. The reflected 

 portion is only about one-half the length of the base of attachment, 

 is short, and bears one short, stout cusp with an equally short, 

 stout cutting point; the side cusps and cutting points are 

 obsolete. The laterals are the same as the centrals, but unsym- 

 metrical. The outer laterals have a side cusp and cutting point. 

 The marginals are low, wide, and have one broad, long, oblique, 

 bluntly bifid cutting point, the inner division the smaller, and 

 a very much shorter side cutting point. This side cutting point 

 is also sometimes bluntly bifid in the extreme marginal teeth. 



The dentition of the other species of this genus, extralimital to 

 North America, examined by me, agrees with that of this species. 

 (See Pr. Phila. Ac. N. S., 1874, 56.) 



liniensis. 



Fig. 24. 



Genus TEBENNOPHORTJS, Binn. 



One species only is known to exist in North America, T. Caro- 

 It has an arched jaw (fig. 24), with blunt, scarcely 

 attenuated ends, ribless anterior surface, and decided 

 blunt median projection to the cutting edge. The 

 jaw is thick, coarse, with vertical and parallel trans- 

 verse lines of reinforcement, but has no appearance 

 of ribs. I have verified this fact by examining 

 numerous specimens of all ages from various parts 

 of the country. My observations have been con- 

 firmed by Morse, also (Journ. Portland Soc. N. 

 I am therefore inclined to doubt the identitv of the 



Jaw of 



Tebennophorus 



caroliniensis. 



H. 1864, 7). 




182 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



specimen which Heynemann (Mai. Blatt. 1862, pi. III., fig. 12) 

 describes with a ribbed jaw. Bergh (Zool. Bot. Gesell. in Wien, 

 XX. 833) suggests that Heynemann may have had Pallifero, 

 dorsalis before him. Morch, Journ. de Conch. 1865, suggests that 

 it may have been Veronicella Floridana. At all events I do not 

 believe it could have been the species now under consideration. 

 I suspect it to have been Pallifera Wetherbyi. (See Ann. Lye. 

 Nat. Hist, of N. Y., XI. 31.) 



The lingual membrane is arranged, as usual in the Helicinae, as 

 shown in fig. 25. It must be borne in mind that I offer this 



Fig. 25. 



T. Carol iniensis. (Morse.) 



figure simply to show the general arrangement of the teeth the 

 form of the individual teeth being much more accurately given in 

 pi. VI., fig 1. Morse counted 115 rows of 56 1 56 teeth, another 

 membrane gave-49 1 49 teeth, with 22 perfect laterals; I have 

 myself counted 56156 teeth, with 11 perfect laterals. The 

 central teeth a have a very Ion? narrow base of attachment 

 widening towards the lower margin, which is excavated. There is 

 a line of reinforcement running parallel to the lower edge, and for 

 a short distance along the sides. The reflected portion equals 

 only one-fourth of the length of the base of attachment. It is stout 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



and bears a short, stout, median cusp, having a short, blunt, 

 cutting point. There are no side cusps or cutting points. 



The laterals b are like the centrals, but unsymmetrical; their 

 reflected portion is also longer. The outer laterals (e) have an 

 outer side cusp. 



The marginals d are a simple modification of the laterals, being 

 quadrate, longer than wide, with one inner broad, long, oblique, 

 bluntly pointed cutting point, bearing an inner, side, short, acute 

 cutting point. These cutting points on the extreme marginals e 

 are simply short and bluntly rounded. 



Some membranes examined by me seemed to have an extension 

 to the base of attachment beyond the upper margin of the reflected 

 portion, to which it was parallel. 



This membrane is peculiar in the long, narrow base of attach- 

 ment and short reflected portion of the central and first lateral 

 teeth. 



Genus HOLOSPIRA, Mart. & Alb. 



There are two species of this genus found within our limits, 

 H. Goldfussi and fioemeri, the former of which I have been able 

 to examine. I have not been able to examine lingual mem- 

 brane of H. Roemeri, but, thanks to Mr. Bland, I have examined 

 and here figure (pi. XX., fig. 10) that of H. Goldfussi. There are 

 26 1 26 teeth, with about 9 laterals. The cusps of the marginals 

 are quite widely separated. The general characters of the teeth are 

 as described below. I can refer also to Messrs. Fischer and Crosse 

 for information regarding the jaw and dentition (Journ. de Conch. 

 XVIII. 13, 1870, pi. V., and Moll. Mex. et Gnat., 320, pi. XVI.) 

 The jaw is arcuate, with slighly acuminated, blunt ends, thin, 

 anterior surface ribless ; cutting edge simple; transversely and 

 vertically striated. 



The lingual membrane in 77. Tryoni and Pfeifferi examined 

 and figured by those authors, is of the usual Helicinse type. The 

 centrals and laterals have a single short cusp, bearing a short, 

 blunt cutting point, both side cusps and side cutting points being 

 absent ; marginal teeth quadrate, wide, low, with one long, inner, 

 obtuse cutting point, and one outer, side, short, blunt cutting 

 point. 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Genus HELICODISCTJS, Morse. 



Jaw according to Morse, of the only known species, H. lineatus, 

 low, wide, cresentic, ends much attenuated, acute ; cutting margin 



with a median, beak-like projection ; 

 anterior surface without ribs, but 

 covered with striae converging ob- 

 liquely towards the beak-like promi- 



Jaw of H. lineatus. [Morse.] 



nence. 



According to my rule of admitting in the genus Helix only such 

 species as have a ribbed jaw, I am forced to recognize lineatus as 

 a distinct genus. Fig. 27 shows the general arrangement of the 



Fig. 27. 



Lingual dentition of H. lineatus. [Morse.] 



teeth upon the lingual membrane. The characters of the separate 

 teeth are better shown in my plate XIII. , fig. 5. Morse gives 77 

 rows of 12 1 12 teeth, each with 4 perfect laterals. Leidy, in 

 Terr. Moll. U. S., II. 262, fig., gives 13113 teeth, with 5 perfect 

 laterals. The membrane examined by me has 12 1 12 teeth, 

 with 4 perfect laterals. The central teeth have a base of attach- 

 ment very small, longer than wide, with expanded lower angles, 

 and reflected upper margin. Reflection very small, with a stout, 

 short, median cusp, and very short, blunt side cusps, all the 

 cusps with short cutting points. The lateral teeth have a base of 

 attachment three times as wide, and somewhat longer than the 

 centrals, and unsymmetrical by the suppression of the inner, lower 

 lateral expansion ; the upper margin is broadly reflected ; the 

 reflection is short but symmetrical, having two equally developed 

 short, stout side cusps, bearing short cutting points ; the median 

 cusp is stout, long, extending nearly to the lower edge of the 

 base of attachment, beyond which projects slightly the short 

 cutting point. 



The marginals are low and wide, the reflection as broad as the 

 base of attachment, reaching nearly to its lower edge, and furnished 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



with one inner, long, bluntly bifid, stout, oblique cutting point, 

 and two or more short outer cutting points. The same form of 

 marginal is found in Pupa. 



The membrane is very peculiar in the lateral teeth, not only 

 from their large size, but also from their symmetrical, tricuspid 

 reflection, quite like the usual arrangement of central teeth in the 

 Helicidae. 



Genus FERUSSACIA, Risso. 



The jaw (see pi. XVI., fig. 5 of that of the only species found in 

 our limits, F. subcylindrica, Lin.) is low, slightly arcuate, wide, 

 with but slightly attenuated, blunt ends ; cutting edge with a 

 slightly produced, wide, median projection ; anterior surface with- 

 out ribs, but with fine vertical striae. There is a strong muscular 

 attachment on its upper margin. 



Figure 28 gives the general arrangement of the teeth, the cha- 



Fisr. 28. 



F. subcylindrica. 



racters of the separate teeth being better shown on pi. XV., fig. 9. 

 This figure, as well as that of the jaw, I drew from a Maine speci- 

 men, furnished by Mr. Anson Allen. There were 24 1 24 teeth, 

 with 8 perfect laterals. The central teeth are small and narrow 

 in proportion to the Literals, with a long, narrow base of attach- 

 ment, expanding at its lower angles. The reflected portion is 

 very small, tricuspid; the central cusp stout, short; the side cusps 

 small, blunt ; all the cusps bear short cutting points. 



The lateral teeth are about as wide as high in their base of 

 attachment, which is subrectangular. The whole upper edge is 

 squarely reflected. The reflection is veiy short, and bears a stout, 

 blunt, long, inner cusp, reaching almost to the lower edge of the 

 base of attachment, and bearing along, blunt cutting point, which 

 reaches beyond the lower edge. The outer side cusp of the reflec- 

 tion is widely separated from the inner cusp, is very short, bluntly 

 rounded, and bears a short, blunt cutting point. The first mar- 

 13 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ginals (fig. b) are but a modification of these laterals, by the 

 greater development of the reflection, and shortening of the inner 

 cusp. The outer marginals (fig. c) become wide, low, irregular in 

 shape; the upper edge broadly reflected, the reflection reaching 

 the lower edge of the base of attachment, and bearing along its 

 whole length numerous (6 or 8 in some teeth) short subequal 

 denticles, some bluntly rounded, others longer and sharp, giving 

 a pectinate appearance. 



My study of this membrane confirms my belief of the identity 

 of the species with the European form. I have carefully compared 

 the dentition of our form with that described and figured by 

 Lehmann (Lebenden Schnecken, 132, pi. XIII., fig. 44), and find 

 them to agree. I must, therefore, disagree with the decision of 

 Morse (Journ. Portl. Soc). I have also examined the genitalia 

 of our species, and found it to agree with Lehmann's figure (1. c), 

 especially in the existence of the very peculiar flagellum to the 

 penis sac. This, however, cannot be considered as a most reliable 

 specific character peculiar to this species, as it exists also in Gseci 

 lianella acicula. 



I am very confident of the presence of well-developed side cusps 

 to the central teeth, which Morse (1. c.) does not figure, though 

 they are figured by Thomson, Ann. Mag. N. H., VII., pi. IT., fig. 

 8. They appear to me also to bear the short cutting points which 

 I have figured. 



Genus C.ECILIANELLA, Bourg. 



I have not been able to examine the jaw or dentition of G. aci- 

 cula (Cionella acicula of L. and Frw. Shells, I. 221), the only 

 species found in our limits. They are both well known, however, 

 from the descriptions and figures of Moquin-Tandon, Thomson, 

 Sordelli, 1 and Lehmann. The jaw is low, wide, arcuate, with deli- 

 cate vertical striae. The lingual membrane (Lehmann, Lebenden 

 Schnecken, p. 128, pi. XIII., fig. 43) has 120 rows of 11111 

 teeth each. The centrals are small, tricuspid (Sordelli), the 

 laterals, six in number, are larger, and have a more highly devel- 

 oped reflection, and are also distinctly tricuspid. Marginals sub- 

 quadrate, with a broad reflection, bearing delicate denticles. 



1 Sordelli (Atti della Soc. Italiana di Sc. Nat. XIII., fasc. 1, p. 50, pi. i. 

 f. 25) describes the ribs to be not straight, but curving, with a median point 

 projecting toward the end of the jaw, so that each rib resembles quite ex- 

 actly the sign called " brace" by printers. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



Genus STENOGYRA, Shuttl. 



I have not been able to examine S. octonoides (S. subula of L. 

 and Frw. Shells, I.) or S. gracillima, but only S. decollata, Lin., 

 from Charleston, 1 S. C, a species introduced from Europe by 

 commerce, and the true S. subula found near Mobile, Ala. Of 

 extralimital species I have examined S. octona, gonostoma, and 

 hasta. Semper has examined S. Panayensis. 



The jaw (see pi. XVI., fig. 1, for that of S. subula) is low, wide, 

 with attenuated, blunt ends, and a wide, slightly produced median 

 projection. There are distinct vertical striae on that of S. 

 decollata. 



The lingual membrane is long and narrow. The central tooth 

 has a very small, high, narrow base of attachment, the lower outer 

 angles generally somewhat expanded. The reflected portion is 

 very small, and bears a short, stout, median cusp, and two very 

 small side cusps ; all the cusps bear distinct cutting points. The 

 lateral teeth are very much larger than the centrals. The base of 

 attachment is about as high as wide, its inner lower lateral expan- 

 sion suppressed as usual. The upper edge is squarely reflected. 

 The reflection is very large, and bears one stout median cusp, 

 extending almost to the lower edge of the base of attachment ; 

 there is also an outer, much smaller side cusp, and a less devel- 

 oped, sometimes subobsolete inner side cusp; all the cusps have 

 distinct cutting points, proportioned to their size ; that on the 

 central cusp being greatly developed. In S. decollata (pi. XV., 

 fig. 5) the inner cutting point is also much developed, and joined 

 to the central cutting point. The marginal teeth in S. decollata 

 are but a modification of the laterals, with the suppression of the 

 inner cusp and cutting point (b) ; the extreme marginals (c) differ 

 in the greater development of the reflected portion and equaliza- 

 tion with it of the cutting points, of which there are but two. In 

 S. subula (pi. XV., fig. 8) the marginal teeth (6) have more nu- 

 merous cutting points, formed by the bifurcation of the inner and 

 outer cutting point. The second denticle from the. inner side is 

 the largest. It will be noticed that in S. decollata both the side 

 cutting points of the laterals are quite thorn-shaped. 



S. decollata, L. (pi. XV., fig. 5, b is one of the first marginals, 



1 I found the species in great numbers at various localities in this city 

 during a recent visit (1875). 




188 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



c extreme marginal) a Charleston specimen. There are 38 1 

 38 teeth, with 11 perfect laterals. 



S. subula, Pfr. (pi. XV., fig. 8, b is an extreme marginal). There 

 are 24 1 24 teeth, with 6 perfect laterals. 



Genus PUPA, Drap. 



I have personally examined the jaw and lingual membrane in 

 only two species, P.fallax (pi. XV., fig 12) and P. rupicola (pi. 

 XV., fig. 2). For information about the other species I am in- 

 debted to Mr. Morse, whose figures are copied below. 



The jaw is low (in P. rupicola, pi. XVI., fig. 7, strongly arched), 



wide, arcuate ; ends but little attenuated in muscorum, penfodon, 



fallax, rupicola ; acutely pointed in corticaria ; a more or less 



developed, broad, blunt median projection to the cutting edge ; 



anterior surface without ribs, but generally witli vertical striae. 



Figure 29 gives a general 

 view of the arrangement of 

 the teeth on the lingual mem- 

 brane. PL XV., fig. 2, shows 

 more correctly the charac- 

 ters of the individual teeth 

 of the genus. The mem- 

 brane is long and narrow, the teeth are as in the genus Vertigo 

 described below ; excepting that in Pupa the central tooth is quite 

 small in proportion to the laterals. The marginal teeth are ir- 

 regularly denticulated, the inner denticle the largest. 



Fig. 29. 



&0& 



0& & ^ 



P. muscorum. [Morse.] 



Fig. 30. 



Fig. 31. 



Lingual dentition of Pvpa pentodon. 

 [Morse.] 



Lingual dentition of Pupa corticaria. 

 [Morse.] 



P. rnuscorum (see fig. 29 above), has 90 rows of 14 1 14 teeth, 

 with six perfect laterals. The figure and description of Lehmann 

 of the European P. muscorum, confirm my belief in the identity 

 of the two forms. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



189 



P. Blandi, Hoppii, variolosa, decora, corpidenta, Rowelli, Cali- 

 fornia, modica, Arizonensis, hordeacea, armifera, borealis, con- 

 tracta, and pellucida, not examined. 



P. pentodon has 64 rows of 10 1 10 teeth, with 4 perfect late- 

 rals (fig. 30). 



P. corticaria has 1 2 1 12 teeth, with 3 perfect laterals (fig. 31). 



P. rupicola (pi. XV., fig. 2) has 11 1 11 teeth, with 5 perfect 

 laterals. 



P.fallax (pi. XV., fig. 12) has 15 1 15, with 7 perfect laterals. 



Fig. 32. 



$y : 



Jaw of Vertigo 

 ovata. [Mor.-e.] 



Fig. 33. 



Genus VEETIGO, Mull. 



Jaw more or less arched, ends but little attenuated, blunt: an- 

 terior surface with delicate vertical striae ; cutting margin with a 

 more or less developed median projection. 



1 have given figure 32 copied from that of Morse. 

 In the L. and Frw. Shells N. A., I., will be found 

 other figures of jaws showing the variations in 

 outline found in the genus. I have personally ex- 

 amined the jaw in none of our species. 



For the characters of the lingual dentition 

 I am also entirely dependent on Morse. 



Figure 33 shows the gene- 

 ral arrangement of the teeth 

 on the membrane. The 

 membrane is long and nar- 

 row. The central teeth 

 have a base of attachment 

 higher than wide, subrec- 

 tangular. The whole upper 

 margin is broadly reflected. The reflection is very short, and bears 

 three short stout cusps, the central the longest, each cusp bearing 

 (I presume) a distinct cutting point. The central tooth, in those 

 species whose dentition is known to me, is as large as the laterals, 

 and not smaller, as seems to be the rule in our species of Pupa. 

 The lateral teeth are like the centrals, but unsym metrical. The 

 reflected portion is small, tricuspid or bicuspid. The marginals 

 are wide, low, with a broad, irregular, denticulated reflection. Mr. 

 Morse gives the following count of the teeth. V. Gouldi (fig. 34) 

 has 15 rows of 11 111 teeth, with 7 perfect laterals. V. Bolle- 



Lingual dentition of Vertigo ovata. [Morse.] 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



siana (fig. 35) has 88 rows of 12 1 12 teeth, with 6 perfect late- 

 rals. A comparison of this description and figure with that of 

 Lehmann, pi. XIV., fig. 53, will prove that this species cannot be 

 identical with P. pygmsea of Europe, as has been suggested by 

 Mr. Gwyn Jeffreys (Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 1872, 246). 



Fig. 34. Fig. 35. 



iSiae 1 



0^ 



&n*^ 





(& ' 



Lingual dentition of Vertigo Gouldi. Lingual membrane of Vertigo Bollesiana. 



[Morse.] [Morse.] 



V. milium, not observed. 



V. ovata (see above figure 33) has 90 rows of 14 1 14 teeth 

 apparently with 9 perfect laterals. The species has been referred 

 to P. antivergo, but the figure of the dentition of that species given 

 by Lehmann (pi. XIV., fig. 52) does not sustain the theory of iden- 

 tity. 



V. ventricom has 98 rows of 13 1 13 teeth, with 6 perfect 

 laterals (fig. 36). 



V. simplex, not observed. 



Fig. 36. 



Lingual membrane of Vertigo ventricosa. [Morse ] 

 Genus STROPHIA, Albers. 



But one species, S. incana, Binn., is found within our limits. I 



have found it to agree in the characters of its jaw and lingual 



membrane with the extralimital species which I have examined, 8. 



iostoma, mumia, and decumana. Semper, however (Phil. Arch. 



128), describes the jaw of S. uva as being without median projec- 



_. _, tion to its cutting edge ; that character, therefore, 



Fig. 37. ' 



cannot be considered generic. 



Jaw of S. incana (fig. 37) arcuate, thick, coarse, 



of about equal height to its bluntly truncated ends : 



s. incana. cutting edge with a slightly produced median pro- 

 jection. Anterior surface without ribs. 



Fig. 38 shows the general arrangement of the teeth upon the 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



lingual membrane. I regret not being able to give more accurately 

 the characters of the individual teeth, 1 but have lost the membrane 



Fig. 38. 





Lingual dentition of S. incana. 



in removing it for examination. There are 129 rows of 24 1 24 

 teeth each. See Proc. Ac. Nat. Sc. Phila., 1874, pi. V1IL, fig. 1, 

 for figure of dentition of S. decumana. 



(2) Jaw with decided short, vertical ribs to its anterior surface. 



Genus ABION, Fer. 



I have not been able to give any information regarding two spe- 

 cies found within our limits, A. Andersoni (see below, p. 194), and 

 A. foliolatus. Indeed there seems so much uncertainty in regard 

 to them, that I doubt their belonging to this genus. For fuller 

 information, see Ann. N. Y. Lye. of N. H., X. 297. This leaves 

 only one species, A. hortensis, Fer., described and figured in Terr. 

 Moll. U. S., and in L. and Frw. Sh. N. A., I., referred to A.fuscus, 

 Mull. 



The species was introduced by commerce into Boston many 

 years ago. It still exists there, 2 specimens having been found by 

 me in 1871, from one of which I extracted the jaw and lingual 

 membrane here described. I have compared the figures of the 

 genitalia of A. hortensis given by Lehmann and A. Schmidt 3 with 

 those given by Leidy in Terr. Moll. U. S. There is a difference 

 in the position of the retractor muscle of the penis. Leidy places 

 it at the base of the penis sac, Lehmann at the top, Schmidt omitting 



1 Too late for illustration in the text, I have received specimens collected 

 by Mr. W. W. Colkett at Key West. There are 27127 teeth, of the 

 same type as in P. decumana, referred to in the text. 



2 Specimens can readily be found in gardens between Chestnut and Mt. 

 Vernon Streets above Willow Street, as well as elsewhere. 



3 Der Geschlechtsapparat der Stylommatophoren, 1855. 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



it entirely. The last two authors figure a retractor to the duct of 

 the genital, bladder, and so does Leidy (though in the description 

 of the plates he refers it to the vagina). Lehmann figures a re- 

 tractor also to the genital bladder itself. Lehmann's figure of the 

 genitalia of A. fuscus (pi. VI., fig. 2) agrees more closely with 

 Leidy's figure in all respects, indeed, but the position of the 

 retractor penis, which Lehmann places at the top of the penis sac. 

 His figure of the dentition of fuscus is nearer mine of the Boston 

 specimens than is his of hortensis, though the transverse count of 

 teeth is larger. Goldfuss' figure of the dentition of A. hortensis 

 also (I.e. pi. V., fig. 6) differs from my figure in the same way, i. e., 

 by the presence of an inner side cusp and cutting point to the 

 lateral teeth. Thus I find it impossible to decide from the geni- 

 talia whether to refer our species to fuscus or hortensis, though I 

 incline to the former. From the dentition I should assuredly adopt 

 the former name also. 



The jaw of the Boston specimen (pi. XVI., fig. 2) is thick, 

 arcuate, ends but little attenuated: no median projection to the 

 cutting edge: anterior surface with 8 stout, separated, unequal ribs, 

 denticulatinw either margin. 



Lingual membrane (pi. V., fig. 5) long and narrow. Teeth about 

 31 1 31, with about ten perfect laterals. Centrals with the base 

 of attachment longer than wide: reflection half as long as the 

 base of attachment, bearing one long, stout cusp extending to the 

 lower margin of the base of attachment, beyond which projects 

 the stout cutting point: side cusps distinct, but small, with dis- 

 tinct, small, stout cutting points. Laterals like the centrals, but 

 unsymmetrical by the suppression of the inner, lower, lateral ex- 

 pansion of the base of attachment, aud the inner side cusp and 

 cutting point. The marginals are low, wide, with one long, bluntly 

 pointed, oblique cutting point, bearing a subobsolete smaller point 

 low down upon its outer side. This subobsolete side cutting point 

 is on some of the marginals much more developed. 



My figure a shows one central with its adjacent lateral, and b 

 and c marginals, the latter form near the outer margin of the 

 membrane. 



From the above remarks it will be seen that in this genus, as in 

 Limax, Zonites, and others, the lateral teeth are either bicuspid 

 or tricuspid. The number of cusps does not seem a generic 

 character. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 193 



Genus ARIOLIMAX, Morch. 



Jaw thick, slightly arcuate, ends but little attenuated, blunt ; 

 low, wide: anterior surface with numerous stout ribs, denticulating 



either margin. The number of ribs varies 

 Fig. 39. in the several species, and in different indi- 



viduals of the same species. Fig. 39, drawn 

 from the true northern A. Columbianus, has 

 18 ribs; another specimen, supposed to be 



Jaw of Ariolim ax ,, . , , . , , -r, 



coiumiianns. the same species, has about 12. (See Proc. 



Ac. Nat. Sc. Phila. 18U, pi. II., fig. 11.) A. 

 Calif ornicus has given 13 and 14 ribs. A. niger has been de- 

 scribed by Dr. Cooper with 20, but I found only 8 in one specimen 

 which I refer to that species. 



Fig. 498 of p. 279, L. and Frw. Shells N. A., I, gives the general 

 arrangement of the teeth upon the lingual membrane. It is drawn 

 from the true northern A. Columbianus. On pi. V., fig. 6, I have 

 given more detailed figures of the dentition of a specimen I refer 

 to this species. It will be seen that the central teeth have a base 

 of attachment longer than wide, with expanded lower angles, and 

 incurved lower margin ; the upper margin is reflected ; the reflec- 

 tion is large, broad, and has a short, stout median cusp, bearing 

 a long, stout cutting point ; the side cusps of the reflection are 

 subobsolete, but there are well-developed triangular cutting points. 

 The laterals are like the centrals, but unsymmetrical by the sup- 

 pression of the inner lower lateral expansion to the base of attach- 

 ment, and the inner side cutting point, the inner side cusps being 

 still subobsolete. 



The change from lateral to marginal teeth is shown in b and c, 

 the median cusps and cutting point being greatly developed, and 

 sometimes (c) having a side cusp and cutting point ; the base of 

 attachment is still narrower than in the first laterals. The mar- 

 ginals are shown in d and e. They are about as high as wide, the 

 reflection equals the base of attachment and bears an extremely 

 long, blunt, stout, oblique cutting point, with a side spur upon 

 the last, in the extreme marginals developed into a short, stout, 

 side cutting point. The cutting point of the marginals by its 

 great development forms the chief characteristic of the membrane ; 

 it is well shown in profile (fig./.). There were 22 perfect laterals 

 in this specimen. The figure referred to above shows only 12 late- 

 rals, with 113 rows of 56156 teeth each. 




194 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Ariolimax Calif ornicus (pi. V., fig. 1) has the same type of 

 dentition, but the bases of attachment are more developed, and 

 are produced beyond the reflection at their upper margin. There 

 are 80 1 80 teeth, with 9 perfect laterals. 



Ariolimax niger, also (pi. Y., fig. 3), has the same type of den- 

 tition as A. Columbianus, the side cusps of the centrals are, how- 

 ever, more developed. On one specimen I found marginal teeth 

 with one inner stout, short, rounded cutting point, and two shorter, 

 rounded, side cutting points (see fig. 2), instead of the usual long 

 cutting point. This is the only variation in the dentition of the 

 genus which I have noticed. 



Since the above was written, I have received specimens which 

 agree with Cooper's description of Avion Andersoni, which appear 

 to be a true Ariolimax. Full descriptions will be given at another 

 time. The jaw has 13 ribs. The lingual membrane has 48 1 48 

 teeth of the type usual in the genus. 



Ariolimax Hemphilli, a species from Niles Station, Alameda 

 County, California, which I am about to describe under the name 

 of its discoverer, has a jaw with 8-12 ribs. Lingual membrane 

 with 31 1 31 teeth of the type common to the genus. 



For full remarks on this genus, see Proc. Ac. Nat. Sc. Phila. 

 1874, p. 33. 



The genus, as far as now known, is restricted to this country ; 

 there are, therefore, no descriptions or figures of the jaw and den- 

 tition of foreign species to compare with ours. 



Genus PROPHYSAON, Bl. and Binn. 



Jaw of the single species known, P. Hemphilli, thick, low, wide, 

 slightly arcuate, with but little attenuated ends, cutting margin 

 without median projection ; anterior surface with fifteen stout, 

 irregularly developed, separated ribs, denticulating either margin 

 (pi. XVL, fig. 9). 



Lingual membrane (pi. V., fig. 4) long and narrow. Teeth 

 about 40 1 40, with 16 perfect laterals. Centrals with a base 

 of attachment longer than wide, reflection extending less than one- 

 half the length of the base, with a very stout, short median cusp, 

 bearing a stout, short, blunt cutting point, and on either side a 

 subobsolete cusp bearing a stout, bluntly rounded, short cutting 

 point. Laterals like the centrals, but unsyrametrical, as usual, by 

 the suppression of the inner side cutting point and inner lower, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



lateral expansion of the base of attachment. Marginals (b) low, 

 wide, with one inner, stout, oblique cutting point and two outer, 

 smaller, blunt cutting points. 



As in all lingual membranes, there is a difference in the develop- 

 ment of the cusps and cutting points on various parts. The teeth 

 figured are the least graceful in their outlines. 



Genus BINNEIA, J. G. Coop. 



Jaw (fig. 40) low, arcuate, with blunt, scarcely attenuated 

 ends; no median projections to the cutting edge; anterior surface 

 with numerous, broad, crowded ribs. 

 Jjt-rr-^ Lingual membrane (fig. 41) as usual in the Heli- 



cinse. Centrals with a subquadrate base of attach- 

 ment, with expanded lower angles ; upper margin re- 

 notauus. fleeted ; reflection large, bearing three distinct cusps, 

 the central the longest; all three cusps apparently with 

 distinct cutting points. Laterals like the centrals but unsymme- 

 trical by the suppression of the inner cusp and cutting point, and 



Fig. 41. 



Lingual membrane of Binneia nntahilis. 



inner lower lateral expansion of the base of attachment. Margi- 

 nals simply a modification of the centrals, subquadrate, higher 

 than wide, with one inner, long, oblique, stout cutting point, and 

 one outer, smaller, side cutting point. 



I regret not being able to give a more satisfactory figure of the 

 dentition of B. nolabilis, our only known species. 



It has 21 1 21 teeth, with 8 perfect laterals. 



Genus HEMPHILLIA, Bl. and Binn. 



Jaw of the only known species, H. glandulosa, thick, low, wide, 

 slightly arcuate, ends attenuated, blunt; cutting margin without 

 median projection ; anterior surface with about 14 crowded, stout, 

 irregularly developed ribs, denticulating either margin (pi. XVI., 

 fig. 6). 




196 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Lingual membrane (pi. V., fig. 7) long and narrow. Teeth 

 23 1 23, with 11 perfect laterals. Centrals with a quadran- 

 gular base of attachment, higher than wide. Reflection about 

 half as long as this base, with along, narrow median cusp reaching 

 the lower margin of the base of attachment, beyond which pro- 

 jects slightly the short cutting point ; side cusps but little de- 

 veloped, but bearing short, stout triangular cutting points. Late, 

 rals like the centrals, but unsymmetrical by the suppression of the 

 inner, lower, lateral angle of the base of attachment, and the inner 

 side cutting point. First marginal (b) with a square base of 

 attachment, broadly reflected into one stout cusp, bearing a single, 

 stout, very long, bluntty ending, oblique cutting point. Outer 

 marginals (c) low, wide, the reflection broad, reaching the lower 

 edge of the base of attachment, and bearing one inner, long? 

 oblique, blunt cutting point; there appear no outer, small, side 

 cutting points. 



Genus PALLIFERA, Morse. 



Jaw stout, arcuate, ends but little attenuated, blunt : anterior 

 surface with stout separated ribs, 9 in P. dorsalis (fig. 42), over 



15 in P. Wetherbyi. The jaw of the 

 latter is arched, and has a blunt me- 

 dian projection, broken by the ends of 

 the ribs. These last are more irregu- 

 larly developed also. 



Fig. 43 shows the arrangement of 

 the teeth on t'he membrane in P. dor- 

 salis, while separate teeth of the same species are more correctly 

 drawn on pi. VI., fig. C. 



Fi?. 42. 



Jaw of Tebennophorus dorsalis ! 



Fig. 43. 



Lingual dentition of Pallifera dorsalis. 



Mr. Morse gives 115 rows of 56 1 56 teeth each, with 13 

 perfect laterals. In the specimen examined by me I found only 

 29 1 29 teeth, with 14 perfect laterals, a difference sufficiently 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



great to raise a doubt of the specific identity of the two specimens. 

 The central teeth have a base of attachment longer than wide, 

 with short lines of reinforcement running parallel to the outer 

 edges at the lower margin. The upper margin is reflected. The 

 reflection extends about one-third of the length of the base of 

 attachment ; it bears a central, stout, well-developed cusp, and 

 one small, little-developed, rounded cusp at each side; all three 

 cusps have stout cutting points. The lateral teeth are like the 

 centrals, but unsymmetrical by the suppression of the inner cusp 

 and cutting point, and inner, lower, lateral expansion of the base 

 of attachment. The marginal teeth are low, wide; broadly re- 

 flected, the reflection equalling the length of the base of attach- 

 ment, and very irregularly denticulated, there being usually one 

 long, blunt, oblique, inner, bifid cutting point, the outer division 

 much the shorter, and several short, blunt, outer cutting points. 



P. Wetherbyi (pi. VI., fig. B), the only other species now known, 

 has 35 1 35 teeth, with 13 perfect laterals. The teeth are dif- 

 ferent from those of P. dorsalis, and nearer those of Tebennopho- 

 rus Caroliniensis. The side cusps of the centrals and laterals 

 are subobsolete, and have no distinct cutting points, the median 

 cusp is much more produced, stouter, and bears a stout, blunt, 

 cutting point. The marginal teeth are not so wide, they are less 

 irregularly denticulated, having usually one long, stout, blunt, 

 oblique, inner cutting point, and one shorter side cutting point. 



Genus HELIX, Lin. 



In common with all who have studied the genus Helix, I am 

 convinced of the necessity of recognizing among its species nu- 

 merous distinct genera. I have, however, at this time eliminated 

 those species only whose jaw has no distinct ribs upon its anterior 

 surface. 1 The balance of the species I retain grouped as sub- 

 genera 2 only. Before recognizing these groups as distinct genera, 

 I desire to wait until we can ascertain whether generic characters 



1 I fear that even this rule will not hold good. In some subgenera of 

 Helix the absence or presence of ribs on the jaw is not a reliable character. 

 For instance, in Dentellaria we have found the jaw of H. Josephinm and 

 formosa without ribs. H. dentiens, badia, pachygastra are heavily ribbed. 

 H. lychnuchus, nucleoid, and perplexa less so. 



2 In the list of species given above (p. 152), I have used only the sub- 

 generic names. 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



can be found in the jaws and lingual dentition as well as in the 

 shells. I shall discuss the constancy of these characters under 

 each group, as far as our material will allow. In this place I will 

 merely mention that in general terms it may be said that Poma. 

 iia, Tachea, Enparypha, Arionta, and Aglaja have few, separated 

 ribs, usually grouped near the centre of the jaw, leaving both ex- 

 tremities without ribs. Mesodon, Triodopsis, and Polygyra have 

 numerous, separated ribs spread over the whole of the jaw. Ste- 

 notrema has numerous stout, crowded ribs also spread over the 

 whole surface of the jaw. The ribs are also numerous, crowded, 

 and similarly disposed in Strobila, Gonostoma, Dorcasia, and 

 Fruticicola, but they do not so deeply denticulate both margins 

 as in the genera mentioned above. All the above have a high 

 jaw. The following have a much lower jaw : Vallonia, with nu- 

 merous crowded ribs slightly denticulating the margins, especially 

 the lower one ; Acanthinula, with similar ribs, but quite arched ; 

 Glyptostoma, with still more numerous, separated ribs, deeply den- 

 ticulating either margin; and Polygyrella, with more numerous 

 ribs, and proportionally much wider to its height than in any of 

 the other North American subgenera. Thus there seems to be 

 some distinctive subgeneric character to the jaw. It must, how- 

 ever, be borne in mind that there are exceptions in some of the 

 subgenera where the species are numerous ; thus, in Arionta, I 

 found numerous ribs in ruficincta, though the other species have 

 but few. The number, disposition, and size of the ribs vary 

 within certain limits in different individuals of the same species. 

 I have repeatedly found this to be the case. 



In regard to the subgeneric value of the type of lingual denti- 

 tion, I can only say in general terms that within certain limits it 

 may prove reliable. Here again, however, we find the type of 

 dentition inconstant when many species are known. Thus in 

 Arionta we find Townsendiana (pi. XVIII., fig. 8) quite differing 

 from the other known species (see below). In Mesodon, also (pi. 

 XII.), I find two quite distinct types of dentition, and under each 

 subgenus I have pointed out the variation observed. I am con- 

 vinced that the presence or absence of side cusps to central and 

 lateral teeth is not a reliable subgeneric character. The marginal 

 teeth offer more reliable characters. They are very peculiar in 

 Vallonia and Sb'obila, in being very low and wide, and having 

 numerous cutting points, quite resembling those of Pupa. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



In Mesodon, Triodopsis, and Arionta, the marginals are longer 

 than wide, with only two, sometimes bifid cutting points. In 

 Stenotrema and Polygyra they are rather wider than long, also 

 with two more bluntly bifid cutting points. It must be borne in 

 mind, however, that my observations have not led me to believe 

 these characters sufficiently constant to be of subgeneric value. 

 I prefer to wait till more species have been examined. There is 

 also some variation in the mode of passing froin lateral to mar- 

 ginal teeth, even in the same subgenus. These points will be 

 treated more fully under each subgenus. 



Subgenus Gonostoma. 



This subgenus is represented in our limits by one species onby, 

 H. Yatesi, J. Gr. Cooper, not Pfr., whose jaw and lingual membrane 

 are here described. Jaw (pi. XVI., fig. 10) low, wide, slightly 

 arcuate, ends scarcely attenuated, blunt ; cutting margin without 

 median projection ; anterior surface with a strong transverse line 

 of reinforcement, and numerous, about 12, wide, crowded ribs den- 

 ticulating either margin. 



Lingual membrane (pi. IX., fig. 3) long and narrow ; teeth 24 

 1 24, with 6 perfect laterals. Centrals with the base of attach- 

 ment longer than wide, with expanding lower lateral angles, and 

 squarely reflected upper margin ; reflection large, stout, bearing 

 small but distinct side cusps, with short, blunt cutting points, 

 and a long, stout, median cusp reaching the lower edge of the 

 base of attachment, beyond which projects the long, acute cutting 

 point. Laterals like the centrals, but unsyrametrical by the sup- 

 pression of the inner, lower, lateral angle of the base of attach- 

 ment, and the distinct inner side cusp and cutting point. Mar- 

 ginals subquadrate (6), a simple modification of the laterals, the 

 reflection being more developed, and bearing one inner, oblique, 

 long, blunt cutting point, and one smaller side cutting point; the 

 extreme marginals (c) are rather wider than high, and the cutting 

 points are bluntly rounded. 



The name Yatesi being already preoccupied in the genus Helix, 

 Dr. Cooper's species may be known as Yatesiana. 



Von Martens describes the jaw of Gonostoma as having distinct 

 ribs. Moquin-Tandon so figures that of obvoluta, Mull, lenticula, 

 Fer, and Bangiana, Fer; and Gassies (Journ. de Conch., XV., 

 1867, 15) so describes that of H. constricta, B. 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The lingual membrane of obvoluta is described by Goldfnss 

 (I. c. 45) with a type of central teeth differing from that I have 

 shown in Yatesi. 



Subgenus Strobila. 



Jaw low, wide, slightly arcuate, ends scarcely attenuated, blunt; 

 cutting margin without median projection ; anterior surface with 

 (over 12 in labyrinthica, numerous in Hubbardi) crowded ribs, den- 

 ticulating either margin, and more developed on the centre of 

 the jaw. 



Lingual membrane of labyrinthica long and narrow, with 78 

 rows of 13 1 13 teeth each, with 5 perfect laterals. Morse 



Fig. 44. 



a^eaa 



^t^^^ 033 ^^ C3 



Lingual dentition of Helix labyrinthica. [Morse.] 



figures 6 laterals. Centrals with a base of attachment about square, 

 upper edge broadly reflected ; reflection very short, bearing a long, 

 slender, median cusp reaching the lower edge of the base of attach- 

 ment, with a short cutting point extending slightly beyond it; 

 side cusps very small, each bearing a short cutting point. Lateral 

 teeth like the centrals, but unsymmetrical by the suppression of 

 the inner lower angle of the base of attachment, and the inner side 

 cusp and side cutting point. Outer laterals gradually changing 

 into the marginals, which are low, wide, with a reflection equalling 

 the base of attachment, and furnished with numerous (about 5) 

 subequal, short cutting points, the inner one longest and bifid 

 (pi. XVIII, fig. 7). 



Morse mentions no ribs on the anterior surface of the jaw, but 

 they are well developed on the specimen examined b} 7 me. 



Helix Hubbardi, a specimen from Bonaventure Cemetery near 

 Savannah, kindly opened by Mr. Bland, furnished a jaw and lin- 

 gual membrane. Jaw long, low, slightly arcuate, ends acuminated ; 

 no median projection to cutting edge; anterior surface with nu- 

 merous crowded ribs, denticulating either margin. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



201 



Lingual membrane with 14 114 teeth, 5 laterals. All the 

 teeth like those of if. labyrinthica (pi. XVIII., fig. 11). 



There are no known species foreign to North America, with 

 which to compare the dentition and jaw of labyrinthica and 

 Hubbardi. 



Fie. 45. 



Jaw of Helix 

 ventrosula. 



Subgenus Polygyra. 



Jaw high, arcuate, ends scarcely attenuated, blunt, cutting edge 

 without median projection ; anterior surface with numerous stout, 

 separated ribs, denticulating either margin. I have 

 counted 8 ribs in H. ventrosula; 14 in pastula; over 

 14 in cereolus ; 10 in espiloca ; 13 in uvulifera ; 10 

 in Texasiana; 12 in Troostiana ; 11 mleporina; 15 

 in Mooreana; 20 in fastigans ; 7 in septemvolva ; 10 

 in FeMgeri; in Hazardi, auriculata, and auriformis 

 they are also numerous. I have had no opportunity of examining 

 the jaw in the other species found within our limits, Poslelliana, 

 avara, Hindsi, triodontoides, tholus, hippocrepis, oppilata, Dor- 

 feuilliana, Ariadnee, cereolus (see p. 203), Garpenteriana (see ib.), 

 pustuloides. 



By the character of its jaw, Polygyra can be compared only to 

 Triodopsis and Mesodon among the other North American sub- 

 genera of Helix. No foreign species has yet been examined. The 

 genus is almost exclusively North American, though several species 

 have been described from the West Indies and Mexico, and one 

 from Bolivia. 



Fi^. 46 shows the general arrangement of the teeth upon the 



Fig. 40. 



Lingual dentition of Helix auriformis? [Leidy.] 



lingual membrane, the characters of the individual teeth being 

 better shown in my plate VIII. The teeth do not differ from what 

 I have described under Stenotrema (see p. 205). As in all the sub- 

 genera, there is considerable difference in the length of the base 

 of attachment on the eentral and lateral teeth in the several 

 species. 



The marginals are lower and wider (see pi. VIII.,.fig. 1, d) than 

 14 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



in Mesodon and Triodopsis, but this character is not constant, the 

 marginals of auriculata and auriformis being higher than wide. 

 I find considerable difference also between the various species in 

 the manner in which the lateral teeth pass into the marginals. In 

 auriformis,espiloca and Hazardi, the change is made simply by the 

 greater development of the inner cutting point, not by its bifur- 

 cation (see pi. VIII., fig. 5, b). In these species it is only the ex- 

 treme outer marginals that have their inner cutting point bifid; in 

 H. auriformis a very few extreme marginals have a bifid cutting 

 point. This species and H. auriculata have very long inner cutting 

 points to their marginal teeth (see fig. 9, c of pi. VIII.). In the 

 other species examined by me the first marginals have their inner 

 cutting point bifid, the transition from laterals to marginals 

 being thus verj r distinctly marked. With these exceptions, the 

 dentition of our species of Polygyra is veiy like that of Steno- 

 trema (q. v.). 



The dentition of no foreign species is known with which to com- 

 pare our species. 



The count of the teeth in the various species now follows : 



H. auriculata (pi. VIII., fig. 12) has 27127 teeth with 12 

 laterals, 10 ribs on jaw. 



H. uvulifera (pi. VIII., fig. ) 23123 with 8 laterals. 



H. auriformis (pi. VIII., fig. 9) has 26126 teeth, with 8 

 laterals. Fig. c shows the proportional greater development of 

 the cutting point in the outer laterals. 



H. Postelliana, Bland. Not examined. 



H.espiloca, Rav. (pi. VIII., fig. 4) has 25 1 25 with 11 laterals. 



H. avara. Not examined. 



E. ventrosula (see L. and Frw. Shells N. A. I. p. 92, fig. 166), 

 93 rows of 24 124 with 9 laterals. I have not preserved this 

 membrane, so cannot now correctly draw it. 



H. Hindsi. Not examined. 



H. Texasiana (pi. VIII., fig. 1) has 26126 with 11 laterals. 



H. triodontoides. Not examined. 



H. Mooreana (pi. VIII., fig. 10) has 20120 with 8 laterals. 



H. tholus. Not examined. 



H. hippocrepis. Not examined. 



H. fastigans (pi. VIII., fig. 11) has 21121 with 8 laterals. 



If. Jacksoni. Not examined. 



H. Troostiana (pi. VIII., fig. 2) has 25125 teeth with 8 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 203 



laterals. The marginals figured are from the portion of the mem- 

 brane where they are the least developed as to their cutting points. 



H. Hazardi (pi. VIII., fig. 5) has 16116 teeth with 8 laterals. 



H. oppilata. Not examined. 



H. Dorfeuilliana. Not examined. 



H. Ariadnee. Not examined. 



H. septemvolva (pi. VIII., fig. 6) has 9 laterals. I cannot 

 count the teeth or draw the marginals on the only slide I have 

 preserved. The latter were described by me as being like those 

 of fastigans. After an opportunity of examining the true sep- 

 temvolva at St. Augustine, I give a more detailed figure on pi. 

 XX., fig. 5. There are 28128 with 9 laterals. The small 

 form with five whorls differs only in having somewhat fewer teeth. 

 The form known as H. volvoxis does not differ excepting in having 

 fewer marginals: Jacksonville, Fla., specimens have 20 1 20 

 teeth. 



H. cereolus. Too late for illustration, I have received specimens 

 collected at Key West byMr.W. W. Calkins. There are 22122 

 teeth, with 9 laterals all of same type as in septemvolva. 14 ribs 

 on jaw. 



H. Carpenteriana. 22 1 22 teeth, with 9 laterals, 12 ribs on 

 jaw. 



H. Febigeri (pi. VIII., fig. 7) has 17 1 17 teeth with 9 

 laterals. 



H.pustula (pi. VIII., fig. 8) has 17 1 17 teeth with 8 laterals. 



H. pustuloides. Not examined. 



H. leporina. Too late for inserting in the plates, I have re- 

 ceived through Mr. Bland, the jaw and lingual membrane of a 

 Texas specimen furnished by Mr. A. G. Wetherby. The jaw has 

 11 ribs. There are 18 1 18 teeth, with 8 laterals, all of same 

 type as in H. fastigans. 



Subgenus Polygyrella. 



Jaw of the only known species, Helix polygyrella (pi. XVI., 

 fig. 11; very low, wide, very slightly arcuate, ends very gradually 

 attenuated : cutting margin without median projection : anterior 

 surface with numerous (even 26), broad, slightly separated ribs, 

 denticulating either margin. 



Lingual membrane (pi. IX., fig. 2) long and narrow. Teeth 27 

 1 27, with 5 perfect laterals. Centrals subquadrate, the lower 

 lateral angles but little expanded ; the upper margin broadly 




204 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



reflected : reflection large, wide, with distinct, but small, rounded 

 side cusps bearing short conical cutting points, and a very stout 

 median cusp reaching the lower margin of the base of attachment, 

 beyond which projects the short, stout, conical cutting point. 

 Laterals like the centrals, but unsymmetrical by the suppres- 

 sion of the inner, lower angle of the base of attachment, and the 

 inner side cusp and cutting point. First marginals a simple 

 modification of the laterals by the lesser development of the cut- 

 ting point (&). Outer marginals (c) low, wide, the reflection 

 equalling the base of attachment and bearing one inner, short, 

 stout, oblique cutting point, and two shorter outer blunt cutting 

 points. 



Polygyrella is quite distinct from all the other American sub- 

 genera of Helix by the form of its jaw and the large number of 

 ribs upon its anterior surface. 



Subgenus Stenotrema. 

 Jaw thick, high, arched; ends but little acuminated, blunt; 

 cutting margin without median projection ; anterior surface with 

 stout, broad, crowded ribs, denticulating either 

 margin. There are about 8 in stenotrema, 11 in 

 germana, 1 7 in monodon, 8 in hirsuta, 13 in 

 Edvardsi, 12 in barbigera, 8 in sjnnosa. 



I have had no opportunity of examining H. 

 labrosa, Edgariana, or maxillata. 



The subgenus is restricted to North America 

 as far as known. It differs from our other subgenera in having 

 its ribs much broader and much more closety crowded. 



Fig. 48. 



Fig. 47. 



Jaw of Helix monodon 

 [Morse ] 



Lingual dentition of Helix monodon. [Morse.] 



Fig. 48, drawn by Mr. Morse, gives the general arrangement of 

 the teeth on the lingual membrane. The characters of the indi- 

 vidual teeth are more correctly shown in nry figures on pi. IX. 



1 See Ann. Lye. N. H. N. Y., X. pi. XIV., fig. 4. Perhaps a Mesodon. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



Centrals with a base of attachment longer than wide, the lower 

 lateral angles but little expanded, the lower margin incurved, the 

 upper margin squarely reflected ; reflection large, wide, with small, 

 in some species almost obsolete, side cusps, always bearing distinct, 

 well developed cutting points ; and a very stout median cusp, 

 bearing a stout cutting point which usually projects beyond the 

 lower edge of the base of attachment. Laterals like the centrals, 

 but unsymmetrical by the suppression of the inner lateral angle 

 of the lower edge of the base of attachment and the inner side 

 cusp and cutting point. The transition from laterals to marginals 

 is shown in pi. IX., fig. 8 {H. spinosa). It is, as usual, produced 

 by the comparative lesser development of the inner eusp and 

 greater development of its cutting point. This cutting point 

 becomes bifid, the reflection becomes shorter, the cutting points 

 more produced, and thus gradually the form of the marginal teeth 

 is reached. They are low, wide, the reflection equalling the base 

 of attachment, the cutting points long, oblique, usually two in 

 number, the inner one generally, and the outer one rarely, bluntly 

 bifid : the outer bifurcation of each is more produced than the 

 inner. There is great variation in the clenticulation of the mar- 

 ginal teeth even on the same lingual membrane. A transition from 

 laterals to marginals similar to that of H. spinosa is found in H. 

 barbigera, Edvardsi, stenotrema, hirsuta, germana, and monodon. 



There seems no difference in the characters of the teeth of the 

 different species examined by me, excepting the slight one of the 

 greater or lesser development of the side cusps of centrals and 

 laterals, especially the former ; whether this is constant can only 

 be proved by a careful examination of every portion of each lin- 

 gual. In H. hirsuta I found these cusps more developed than in 

 the other species (pi. IX., fig. 6). 



The count of the teeth in the different species is as follows : 



H. spinosa (pi. IX., fig. 8) has 27 1 2Y teeth; 9 perfect 

 laterals. 



H. Edvardsi (pi. IX., fig. 1) has 20120 teeth; 9 perfect 

 laterals. 



H. barbigera (pi. IX., fig. 9) has 21121 teeth; 8 perfect 

 laterals ; but even the third has its inner cutting point greatly 

 produced. 



H. stenotrema (pi. IX., fig. 1) has 20 120 teeth ; 10 perfect 

 laterals. 




206 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



H. Mrsuta (pi. IX., fig. 6) has 22122 teeth ; 10 perfect 

 laterals. 



H. germana (pi. IX., fig. 5) has 28 1 28 teeth; 12 perfect 

 laterals. Fig. 6 shows one of the few marginals which have the 

 outer cusp bifid. 



H. monodon (pi. IX., fig. 4) has 21 1 21 teeth ; 10 perfect 

 laterals. Morse gives 28 1 28 teeth. 



H. labrosa, maxillata, and Edgariana not examined by me. 



Fig. 49. 



Jaw of Helix 

 appressa. 



Subgenus Triodopsis. 



Jaw stout, arcuate, low, wide, ends but little attenuated, blunt; 

 cutting margin without median projection ; anterior surface with 

 numerous decided, separated ribs, denticulating either 

 margin. There are about 15 in palliata ; 10 in ob- 

 stricta ; 15 in appressa; 14 in inflecta ; 10 in Bu- 

 geli ; 14 in fall ax ; over 10 in Hopetonensis ; over 12 

 in Earfordiana ; 1 1 in loricata ; l over 10 in triden- 

 tata. I have not examined H. Mullani 2 and vultuosa' 

 The subgenus is almost exclusively North American. Two 

 Central American species have, however, been described, and one 

 European species, H. personata, Lam. This last is said by Mo- 

 quin-Tandon to have 3 5 separated ribs upon its jaw, while our 

 American species, as shown above, have numerous ribs. 



Triodopsis does not differ from Mesodon or Polygyra in the 

 character of its jaw. Stenotrema, on the other hand, is readily 

 distinguished by having the ribs broader and more crowded on 

 its jaw. 



Fig. 50. 



Lingual dentition of Helix appressa. 



The general arrangement of the teeth on the lingual membrane 

 is shown in fig. 50. The characters of the individual teeth are 

 given on pi X. I have selected H. appressa (fig. 7) to show these 



1 The ribs are more crowded in this species. 



2 Probably identical with devia. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 20T 



characters, comparing the dentition of the other species with it. 

 The centrals are longer than wide ; the base of attachment has its 

 outer, lower, lateral expansion but little developed, its lower mar- 

 gin incurved, its upper margin squarely reflected ; the reflection is 

 stout, with subobsolete side cusps, but well-developed side cut- 

 ting points, and a stout, short median cusp, bearing a cutting 

 point which does not reach the lower margin of the base of at- 

 tachment. The laterals are like the centrals, but, as usual in. the 

 genus Helix, unsymmetrical by the suppression of the inner, 

 lower, lateral expansion of the base of attachment and the inner 

 side cusp with its cutting point. The transition teeth are charac- 

 terized by the gradual lesser proportional development of the 

 reflection, and greater development of the inner cutting point; as 

 the teeth pass outward, this point becomes bifid, the reflection be- 

 comes gradually shorter, until the true marginals are reached. 

 These last are low, wide, the reflection equalling the base of 

 attachment, the inner cutting point being greatly developed, long, 

 oblique, bluntly bifid, the inner bifurcation the shorter of the two; 

 the outer cusp is very short, blunt, sometimes also bifid. In fig. 7, 

 the 10th is the first lateral showing decided modification ; the 

 14th tooth has its inner point bifid; the 17th tooth is a decided 

 marginal. The transition from laterals to marginals is so gradual 

 that it is often difficult to give the number of perfect laterals. In 

 many cases, therefore, the number given by me must be consid- 

 ered as only approximately correct. There is great variation in 

 the denticulation of the marginal teeth. 



The general character of the dentition of the other species is 

 about the same as in appressa. I found great difficulty in de- 

 tecting the side cutting points in several species, especially tri- 

 dentata and palliata. In some species I did not find the transition 

 teeth or inner marginals with bifid cutting point (pi. X., fig. 3, 4). 



I give below the count of the teeth in the several species. 



H. palliata (pi. X., fig. 2) has 34134 teeth ; 12 perfect late- 

 rals; another specimen had 14 laterals. Morse counted 115 rows 

 of teeth. The inner cutting point of the transition teeth in this 

 species is very large, as shown in c. 



H. obstrictaipLXYIU., fig. 10) has 33133 teeth; 10 perfect 

 laterals : very like H. palliata. My figures are drawn from that part 

 of the lingual membrane which has the cutting points of its teeth 




208 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



quite blunt. Other portions of the membrane would furnish much 

 more sharply pointed teeth. 



H. appressa (pi. X., fig. 7) has 33 1 33 teeth ; about 12 perfect 

 laterals. 



H. inflecta (pi. X., fig. 4) has 22 1 22 teeth ; 7 perfect laterals. 

 This and the following species have inner marginal teeth with 

 simple, not bifid, cutting points (c). 



H. Rugeli (pi. X., fig. 3) has 21 1 21 teeth ; 6 perfect laterals. 



H. tridentata (pi. X., fig. 1) has 25 1 25 teeth ; 10 perfect 

 laterals. The inner cutting point is bifid after the 10th. 



H. Mullani. The species is probably identical with devia. 



H. Harfordiana has 26 1 26, with 12 laterals. Jaw with over 

 12 ribs. Received too late for illustration. 



H. fallax (pi. X., fig. 5) has about 40 1 40 teeth ; 14 laterals. 

 This (not tridentata) had no bifurcation to the inner cutting point 

 of the transition teeth, at least on the portion of the membrane 

 examined by me. 



H. introferens not examined by me. 



H. Hopetonensis (pi. X., fig. 6) has 27 1 27 teeth as far as I 

 can judge from an imperfect membrane. There are 7 perfect 

 laterals. 



H. vultuosa ,not examined. 



H. loricata (pi. XVIII., fig. 4) has over 20120 teeth ; 8 

 perfect laterals. 



Helix personata is the only European species of this subgenus, 

 but no figure of its dentition has been published to compare with 

 that of our species. The same is true of the two Central American 

 species known. 



Subgenus Mesodon. 



Jaw stout, high, arcuate, wide, ends but little attenuated, blunt ; 

 no median projection to the cutting margin ; anterior surface with 



numerous, separated, decided ribs, 

 Fig. 51. denticulating either margin. I have 



counted 13 in H. major ; 10 in albola- 

 bris ; 10 mmxdtilineata ; 11 in Pennsyl- 

 vanica; 12 in Mitchelliana ; 12 in 

 elevata; 13 in Clarki ; 13 in exoleta; 

 Jaw of Helix Sayu. [Morse ] 1 8 in Wetherbyi : 14 in dentifera ; 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



1 in Roemeri: 13 in thyroides: 10 in clausa : 8 in Columbiana:' 

 1 in devia: 10 in profunda: 15 in Sayii: 10 in Mobiliana: over 

 10 in Downieana. 



I have had no opportunity of examining H. divesla, Christyi, 

 Wheatleyi, and jejuna. 



Nothing has been published regarding the jaw and lingual den- 

 tition of the subgenus from species foreign to North America, as 

 it is exclusively confined to this country. 



The jaw of Mesodon does not essentially differ from that of 

 Triodopsis and Polygyra, but may readily be distinguished from 

 that of the other American subgenera. 



The lingual membrane is long and narrow. The general ar- 

 rangement of the teeth is shown in fig. 52. The characters of the 



Fis. 52. 



Lingual dentition of Helix multilineata. 



individual teeth are better shown in my plates. It will be seen 

 that there are two distinct types of dentition among the species of 

 the subgenus. The first form of dentition is found in albolabris 

 (pi. XI., fig. 1), Roemeri (pi. XI., fig, 3), Wetherbyi (pi. XL, fig. 2), 

 Downieana (pi. XI., fig. 4), Saijii (pi. XI., fig. 5) exoleta (pi. XL, 

 fig. ?), Pennsylvanica (pi. XVIIL, fig. 3), Mitehelliana (pi. XVIIL, 

 fig. 5), elevata (pi. XII., fig. 1), Columbiana (pi. XII., fig. 2), 

 Mobiliana (pi. XII., fig. 3), devia (pi. XII., fig. I), profunda (pi. 

 XII., fig. 5) multilineata (pi. XII., fig. 6), dentifera (pi. XII., fig. 

 8), Clarki (pi. XL, fig. 6). Even among these species there are 

 some important variations. Thus I have failed to detect any side 

 cutting points on the subobsolete side cusps of the central and 

 first lateral teeth of Roemeri, Wetherbyi, Downieana, Sayii, ex- 

 oleta, Pennsylvanica, and Mitehelliana. All these species have 

 their side cusp less developed than in the other species mentioned 

 above. The presence of the cutting point may be detected by 

 better manipulation than I am able to give, but as far as my powers 



1 See Ann. N. Y. Lye. of N. H., X. pi. XIV., fig. 2. 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



2:0, I cannot find it. The outer laterals, however, in most of the 

 species have a much more developed side cusp than the inner 

 laterals, bearing a well-developed cutting point (see pi. XI., fig. 

 6, d), but not all the species, as H. exoleta for instance, as shown 

 in pi. XL, fig. 7, d, has no well developed side cusp and cutting 

 point on its outer laterals, nor does it appear except on the de- 

 cided marginals. It is the same in H. Sayii. 



I find also variation in the manner of passing from the lateral 

 to the marginal teeth among the species of this first group of Me- 

 sodon. In H. exoleta (pi. XL, fig. 7, 14) the cutting point remains 

 the same, and also in Sayii, profunda, Wetherbyi, and Mitchel- 

 liana, but in elevata (pi. XIL, fig. 1, 18) the transition teeth are 

 characterized by the bifurcation of the large cutting point; the 

 same occurs in albolabris, multilineata, Bo'emeri, Columbiana (pi. 

 XIL, fig. 2) and devia, and the rest of the group. 



The general character of the teeth in this section of Mesodon is 

 about the same as I have described above for Triodopsis (p. 260). 

 It will be noticed, however, that the marginals (as in H. exoleta 

 and Wetherbyi) do not always have their cutting points bifid. 



The other type of dentition in the subgenus Mesodon is shared 

 by H. thyroides (pi. XVIII. , fig. 2), claicsa (pi. XIL, fig. 7), and 

 Wheatleyi (pi. XVIIL, fig. 1). The centrals and first laterals have 

 subobsolete side cusps without cutting points, the outer laterals 

 have no side cusp, but retain the type of the first laterals, they are 

 much longer, narrower, and have one extremely long, oblique, 

 stout, bluntly pointed cutting point, reaching far beyond the 

 lower margin of the base of attachment. These outer laterals 

 pass gradually into the marginals, which retain their general form 

 but have a less developed reflection, and much more proportion- 

 ally developed cutting point, sometimes bifid in the extreme mar- 

 ginals (pi. XVIIL, fig. 2, 54), and usually with a small side cutting 

 point. 



As in all the subgenera of Helix, the marginal teeth of Mesodon 

 show great variation in their denticulation, even in most cases on 

 the same membrane. H. Clarki (pi. XL, fig. 6) has the marginals 

 with cutting points much blunter and broader in some parts than 

 in the others. 



The study of the dentition of Mesodon shows that we must be 

 prepared to find considerable variation in the character of the 

 teeth of any subgenus. The peculiar outer lateral teeth and mar- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



ginals of H. thyroides, for instance, would hardly have been ex- 

 pected, so utterly different are they from those of albolabris. 

 Again, we should hardly have expected to find such a difference 

 in the same subgenus, as the presence and absence of side cutting- 

 points on the central and first lateral teeth. 



I will now give the count of teeth in the several species. 



Helix major, not examined. 



Helix albolabris (pi. XI., fig. 1). Outer laterals have distinct 

 side cusps as well as cutting points. Teeth 44 1 44, with about 

 12 laterals. The inner cutting points of fig. b should be bifid. 



Helix divesta, not examined. 



Helix midtilineata (pi. XII., fig. 6), 42 1 42 ; 12 laterals. 



Helix Pennsylvanica (pi. XVIII., fig. 3), 40 1 40 ; 13 perfect 

 laterals. Morse counted 120 rows of 39 1 39 teeth. 



Helix Mitchelliana (pi. XVIII., fig. 5), 49149; 18 laterals. 

 Outer laterals have side cusps and cutting points. 



Helix elevata (pi. XII., fig. 1), about 45 1 45 ; 17 laterals. 



Helix Clarki (pi. XI., fig. 6), 35135, with 15 laterals. 



Helix Christyi, not examined. 



Helix exoleta (pl.XI. f fig. 7) has 56 1 56 ; 11 perfect laterals, 

 but even the 8th tooth shows a decided modification in form. 



Helix Wetherbyi (pi. XI., fig. 2) has 35135 ; 12 laterals. 



Helix Wheatleyi (pi. XVIIL, fig. 1) has 67167, with over 

 12 laterals. 



Helix dentifera (pi. XII., fig. 8) has 32132 teeth, with 15 

 laterals. 



Helix Eoemeri (pi. XL, fig. 3) has 35135 teeth, with 12 

 laterals. 



Helix thyroides (pi. XVIIL, fig. 2) has 60160, with 11 

 laterals. 



Helix clausa (pi. XII., fig. 7) has 41141, with about 11 

 perfect laterals. 



Helix Columbiana (pi. XII., fig. 2) has 33133 teeth ; 15 

 perfect laterals. 



Helix Downieana (pi. XL, fig. 4) has 35135 teeth, with 12 

 laterals. The side cusps and cutting points are visible on the 

 second lateral tooth. 



Helix Lawi, not observed. 



Helix Mobiliana. The true species, from Baldwin County, 




212 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Alabama, Dr. E. R. Showalter (pi. XII., fig. 3). There are 

 25 1 25 teeth, with 10 perfect laterals. 



Helix jejuna, not examined. 



Helix devia (pi. XII., fig. 4) has 23123, with 16 perfect 

 laterals. 



Helix profunda (pi. XII., fig. 5) has 40 1 40 teeth, with 

 about 14 perfect laterals. 



Helix Sayii (pi. XL, fig. 5) has 42 1 42 teeth, with about 15 

 perfect laterals. 



Fig. 53. 



Subgenus Acanthinula. 



We have but one species within our limits, H. harpa, whose 

 jaw and lingual dentition have been described and figured by 

 Morse. Judging from his figure (fig. 53) and text, 

 the anterior surface of the jaw seems to have sub- 

 obsolete ribs which mark the lower margin ; it is 

 low, wide, strongly arched, with blunt, scarcely 

 attenuated ends ; cutting edge with a wide and 

 very slightly produced, broad median projection ; 

 transversely and longitudinally striate. 



Lingual membrane long and narrow, 120 rows of 17 1 17 

 teeth, with 6 perfect laterals. The centrals have a square base of 



Jaw of 

 Helix harpa. 



[Morse.] 



Fisr. 54. 



Lingual dentition of Helix harpa. [Mor6e.] 



attachment, the upper margin squarety reflected ; the reflection is 

 very small, tricuspid, the side cusps very small, blunt, the median 

 cusps very long and narrow, not reaching the lower edge of the 

 base of attachment, not even with its short cutting point; side 

 cusps also, I presume, with cutting points, though none are shown 

 in Morse's figure. Laterals like the centrals, but unsymmetrical 

 by the suppression of the inner side cusps, and cutting points. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



213 



Marginals low, wide, the broad reflection equalling the base of 

 attachment and irregularly denticulated, as in Pupa. 



There are two European species of this subgenus, H. aculeata 

 and lamellata, whose jaw is described by Lehmann as rather 

 striated than ribbed. Their lingual dentition presents no sub- 

 generic differences from that of harpa, though the cusps of the 

 centrals are described as simply conical. 



Subgenus Vallonia. 



Jaw low, wide, slightly arcuate, ends but little attenuated, 

 blunt ; cutting margin without median projection ; anterior sur- 



face with numerous crowded, broad 

 Fig. 55. ribs, denticulating the lower margin. 



^Mnmm^ (Fig ' 55 



Lingual membrane (pi. XVIII., fig. 



o^ 



Fisr. 56. 



Lingual dentition of Helix pulchella. [Morse ] 



Jaw of Helix puichetta. [Morse] 6) long and narrow. Morse gives 13 



rows of 11 1 1 1 teeth, with 3 perfect 

 laterals. I counted 10 1 10, with 3 perfect laterals. Centrals 

 with the base of attachment long and narrow, expanded and 



notched at the outer lower 

 angles, narrowed above and 

 reflected ; reflection very small, 

 tricuspid, all the cusps bearing 

 very short cutting points, the 

 central one, as usual, longest. 

 Laterals with the base of at- 

 tachment twice as broad as in 

 the centrals, the inner lower angle suppressed, notched at the 

 outer angle, broadly reflected above ; reflection larger than in 

 the centrals, with one inner, long, slender cusp, reaching nearly 

 the lower edge of the base of attachment, its cutting point quite 

 reaching it, and one small outer side cusp, also bearing a distinct 

 cutting point. Marginals low, wide, the reflection equalling the 

 base of attachment and irregularly denticulated along its edge, 

 the inner cusp the longest and bifid. The dentition is quite that 

 of Pupa. 



The above description is drawn from a specimen from Maine. 

 The European form is figured by Moquin-Tandon with a median 

 projection to the cutting edge of its jaw. Lehmann also figures 




214 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



a wide, slight projection to the cutting edge. A comparison of 

 the description and figure of the dentition of the European spe- 

 cimens given by Thomson and Lehmann shows no specific differ- 

 ence. It will be noticed that Lehmann 's figure of the centrals 

 shows a more developed reflection and cusp and no side cusps. 

 I believe, however, that careful comparison will show no variation 

 in this or other particulars. 



Subgenus Fruticicola. 



The two species of this subgenus found within our limits, H. 



rufescens and H. hispida, are purely local, having been introduced 



by commerce at Quebec and Halifax, respectively. I have not had 



an opportunity of examining either. The jaw of the subgenus is 



described as arcuate with blunt ends ; anterior surface with broad, 



crowded ribs (see figure of that of hispida copied 



F 'g- 5.7. from Moquin-Tandon); Lehmann (1. c, pi. XII., 



/f7[jXUjT|\ fig. 57) figures the lingual membrane of hispiida 



"^ with centrals having a long narrow base of attach- 



Jaw of " 



Helix hispida. ment, a stout, pear-shaped, unicuspid reflection ; 

 laterals bicuspid, marginals a simple modification 

 of the laterals. Other species are also figured by Lehmann. 



Subgenus Dorcasia. 



I hesitate to place our two species, H. Berlandieriana and 

 gnseola in this subgenus on account of the geographical range of 

 its species. I will, however, temporarily leave them here. I do 

 not believe they properly belong to Fruticicola. 



I have not examined H. Berlandieriana. The other species, 

 griseola, has a jaw (pi. XVI., fig. 14) slightly arcuate; high, ends 

 scarcely attenuated, blunt ; cutting margin without median pro- 

 jection ; anterior surface entirely covered with numerous, about 

 12, broad, crowded ribs, denticulating either margin. 



Lingual membrane (pi. XIII., fig. 2.) long and narrow. Teeth 

 about 27 1 27, with 12 perfect laterals. Centrals with the base of 

 attachment long and rather narrow, the outer lower angles but little 

 expanded, the upper margin broadly reflected ; reflection large, 

 with a very stout, long median cusp, bearing a long, stout cutting 

 point extending below the lower edge of the base of attachment, 

 side cusps obsolete, but side cutting points present, large, tri- 

 angular, acute. Laterals like the centrals, but unsymmetrical by 




*& 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



the suppression of the inner, lower lateral angle of the base of 

 attachment and inner side cutting point. Marginals (b) low, 

 wide, the reflection broad, equalling the base of attachment and 

 bearing one inner, broad, long, oblique, bifid cutting point, the 

 inner division the smaller, and two outer, smaller, stout, sharp, 

 side cutting points. 



Subgenus Aqlaja. 



Jaw thick, high, arched, ends but little attenuated, blunt ; cutting 

 edge without median projection ; anterior surface with stout, sepa- 

 rated ribs, denticulating either margin, from 5 to 9 

 in H. infumata (fig. 58), about 6 in fidelis. The 

 other American species, H. Hillebrandi, I have not 

 examined. 



Lingual membrane long and narrow. That of 

 Jaw of Hillebrandi not examined, those of infumata and 



Helix infumata. .... 



fidelis agreeing m their general characters. The 

 centrals have a base of attachment longer than wide, with incurved 

 lower margin and expanded lower lateral angles ; upper margin 

 broadly reflected ; reflection short, stout, with no side cusps or 

 cutting points, but a very stout, short median cusp, bearing a 

 short cutting point. Laterals like the centrals, but unsymmetri- 

 cal by the base of attachment wanting the inner, lower lateral 

 expansion ; it is, however, unusually developed on its inner side 

 margin : first marginals (b of each figure) differing from the late- 

 rals by the equalling of the reflection and base of attachment, the 

 lesser development of the cusp, and greater development of the 

 cutting point, which is bluntly bifid, the inner division the smaller. 

 On some of the first marginals of infumata (pi. XIIL, fig. 9, b) 

 there is a small side cutting point. Marginals low, wide, the re- 

 flection equalling the base of attachment, and bearing one long, 

 oblique, wide, bifid cutting point, the inner division the smaller, 

 and one or two short, sharp, side cutting points. There is great 

 variation in the cutting points. 



A comparison of the two figures will show a longer base of at- 

 tachment in fidelis, with a line of reenforcement or duplication to 

 its upper margin. As with all species, there is much variation in 

 the length of the cutting point, in centrals and laterals, and their 

 arrangement and development in the marginals. 




216 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



H.fidelis (pi. XIII., fig. 8) has 48148 teeth, with 15 perfect 

 laterals. The first marginal is shown in b, an outer marginal in e. 

 Usually the first marginals have a side cutting point. 



H. infumata (pi. XIII., fig. 9) has 45 1 45 teeth, with 16 late- 

 rals. Fig. b is the 17th tooth, from a different portion of the 

 membrane from c, which is the 20th; they show variation in the 

 transition teeth as to the presence of the side cutting point. Ex- 

 treme marginals are shown in d. 



Of the dentition of the other species of Aglaja foreign to our 

 limits but little is known. H. Ghiesbreghti (see Moll. Mex. et 

 Guat.) has very dissimilar teeth, especially the marginals. H. semi- 

 clausa (Malak. Blak. XV., pi. IV., fig. 4) also diners in its denti- 

 tion. The jaws of these species agree with those of infumata and 

 fidelis. 



Fig. 59. 



Subgenus Akionta. 



Jaw thick, high, arched, ends but little attenuated, blunt ; cut- 

 ting margin without median projection ; anterior surface with a 



few, separated, stout ribs, deeply denticulating 

 either margin, and so disposed as to leave 

 each end of the jaw free from ribs. I have 

 counted 6 ribs on the jaw of arrosa; 9 in 

 Townsendiana ; 6 in tudiculata ; 6 in Nickli- 

 niana ; 6 in redimita ; 6 in exarata ; 5 in Dia- 

 bloensis ; about *7 in Carpenteri ; 3 in ramentosa ; 5 in Calif omi- 

 ensis ; 4-6 in sequoicola ; 8 in Traski ; 8 in facta ; 6 in Kelletti ; 

 9 of unequal size in Stearnsiana. The jaw of ruficincta differs 

 in having over 10 ribs covering its whole surface, and in being 

 only slightly arcuate. 



J aw of Helix arrosa. 



Lingual dentition of Helix facta. 



I have not examined the following species : inter cisa, Mormo- 

 num, Duprt/tJiouarsi, Gabbi. 

 The subgenus is almost exclusively confined to our limits. There 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



is, however, one Mexican species, one African, and one European, 

 H. arbustorum. The jaw of the last agrees with our species. 



The lingual membrane is long and narrow. Fig. 60 shows the 

 general arrangement of the teeth upon the lingual membrane. 

 The characters of the individual teeth are shown in my plates. 

 I have selected H. Stearnsiana pi. XIII., fig. 3, to give an idea of 

 the teeth in successive transverse rows. Fig. a shows a group of 

 central and lateral teeth in two adjacent rows, b the transition 

 from laterals to marginals, c marginal teeth from near the outer 

 edge of the membrane. The central teeth have a base of attach- 

 ment much longer than wide, with incurved lower margin and 

 expanded lower lateral angles ; the upper margin broadly reflected ; 

 reflection short, stout, with subobsolete side cusps bearing no cut- 

 ting points, and a stout, long median cusp bearing a short, blunt 

 cutting point, which does not reach the lower margin of the base 

 of attachment ; the reflection with the median cusp is pear-shaped ; 

 in many species there is a duplicate line of reenforcement parallel 

 to the upper margin of the base of attachment. The lateral teeth 

 are of similar type to the centrals, but are unsymmetrical by the 

 suppression of the inner, lower, lateral angle of the base of attach- 

 ment. The outer laterals have a side cusp and cutting point. 

 The transition from laterals to marginals is formed by the greater 

 proportional development of the cutting point, the lesser develop- 

 ment of the cusp ; the cutting point then becomes bifid, the re- 

 flection becomes more nearly the same size as the base of attach- 

 ment, and thus the true marginals are gradually reached. These 

 last are longer than wide, have a base of attachment smaller 

 than the reflection and cut away on its lower inner angle ; the 

 reflection is produced into one long, sharp, oblique, bifid cutting 

 point, the inner division the smaller, and one outer, much shorter, 

 sharp, rarely bifid cutting point. 



Most of the species examined agree in dentition with Stearn,si- 

 ana. Some have more blunt cutting points to their marginals, as 

 H. seqaoicola (pi. XIV., fig. 5), but even on various parts of the same 

 membrane the marginals vary in this respect. In Kelletti, Stearn- 

 siana, tudiculata, arrosa, Traski, sequoicola, Ayresiana, redimita, 

 Nickliniana, ramentosa, exarata, I have failed to detect any side 

 cutting points to the central and inner lateral teeth. I found the 

 points, however, in H. ruficincta (pi. XIV., fig. 3). H. Town- 

 sendiana (pi. XVIII., fig. 8) has these cutting points and side 

 15 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



cusps on central and all the lateral teeth ; its centrals and late- 

 rals are not of the same shape as described above for H. Kelletti, 

 but resemble those of Polygyra, Stenotrema, and Triodopsis. Thus 

 in this as in other subgenera, we find the type of dentition not 

 constant in all the species. 



The long, narrow base of attachment and pj'riform reflection 

 of most of the species of Arionta agree with those of Hemitrochus 

 (see p. 181) more nearly than any other of our genera or subgenera, 

 but that genus has quite different marginal teeth. 



The dentition of H. arbustorum is alone known of the species 

 foreign to America, and that by a figure of Lehmann (Lebenden 

 Schnecken, pi. XL, fig. 29) too unsatisfatory to be of value for the 

 purpose of comparison. 



H. arrosa (pi. XIV., fig. 2), 54154 teeth. 17 laterals. 



H. Townsendiana (pi. XY1II., fig. 8) has 60160. Another 

 membrane had 40 1 40. 



H. tudiculata (pi. XIV., fig. 1), 50150, with 26 perfect late- 

 rals. 



H. Nickliniana (pi. XIV., fig. 8). 



H. Ayresiana (pi. XIV., fig. 6), 50 1 50, with 15 perfect laterals. 



H. redimita (pi. XIV., fig. 7). The 17th tooth has its inner 

 cutting point split. 43 1 43. 



H. intercisa, not examined. 



H. exarata (pi. XIV., fig. 10), 54 1 54, 19 perfect laterals. 



H.ramentosa (pi. XIV., fig. 9), 60 1 60, with 21 perfect late- 

 rals. The 18th tooth has the side cutting point. 



H. Calif orniensis (see L. and Frw. Sh., 1., p. 171, fig. 297). 

 Teeth 56156. 



H. (Jarpenteri. Too late for illustration, I have received speci- 

 mens collected by Mr. Henry Hemphill. There are 48 1 48 

 teeth, with 20 laterals ; the side cutting points are visible beyond 

 the 7th tooth. 



H. Mormonum, not examined. 



H. sequoicola (pi. XIV., fig. 5), 46 1 46, 18 perfect laterals. 



H. Diabloensis. 



Too late for illustration, I have received from Mr. L. Q. Yates 

 specimens of the form called Diabloensis by Dr. Cooper. There 

 are 37 1 37 teeth, with 17 laterals. There are side cutting 

 points beyond the 12th tooth. 



H. Traski (pi. XIV., fig. 4), 36136 ; the 13th tooth has the 

 wide cutting point; 16 laterals. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



H. Dupetithouarsi, not examined. 



H. ruficincta (pi. XIV., fig. 3), 35 1 35, with 18 laterals. 

 H. Gabbi, not examined. 



H. facta (see p. 216, fig. 60), 29129, with 11 laterals. 

 H. Kelletti (pi. XIII., fig. 4), 57 1 5Y- 



H. Stearnsiana (pi. XIII., fig. 3), 50 1 50, with 24 laterals. 

 The 22d tooth has the side cutting point. 



Subgenus Glyptostoma. 1 



One species only is thus far known, Helix Neivberryana. Its 

 jaw (pi. XVI., fig. 4) is low, wide, slightly arcuate, ends but little 

 attenuated, blunt ; cutting margin without median projection ; 

 anterior surface with numerous (about 16), stout, separated ribs, 

 deeply denticulating either margin. 



Lingual membrane (pi. XIII., fig. 6) long and narrow. Teeth 

 41 1 47, with 17 perfect laterals. Centrals with the base of 

 attachment long and narrow, with greatly expanded lower, lateral 

 angles, the upper margiu rounded, broadly reflected ; reflection 

 large, stout, with obsolete side cusps, but with decided, triangular 

 side cutting points ; median cusp very stout, short, with a long 

 acute cutting point reaching beyond the lower edge of the base of 

 attachment. Laterals like the centrals, but unsymmetrical by the 

 suppression of inner, lower, lateral angle of the base of attach- 

 ment and inner side cutting point. The transition from laterals to 

 marginals is marked by the lesser proportional development of the 

 cusp and greater development of the cutting point. Marginals (c) 

 low, wide, the reflection equalling the base of attachment and 

 bearing one inner, short, stout, oblique, blunt cutting point, and 

 one outer, shorter, blunt cutting point. 



This species, like all others, has great variation in the develop- 

 ment of the cutting points on different parts of the same membrane. 



Subgenus Euparypha. 



Jaw high, arcuate, ends but little attenuated, blunt ; cutting 

 margin without median projection; anterior surface with a few 

 (about 5 in Tryoni) stout, separated, unequal ribs, deeply denticu 

 lating either margin. 



1 See Proc. Phila. Ac. Nat. Sci., 1873, p. 244. 




220 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Jaw of II Tryoni. 



Fig. 61. As usual in most of the species of Helix, 



etc., examined by me, the number, size, and 

 disposition of the ribs vary in different 

 individuals of the only species of Euparypha 

 I have examined, H. Tryoni. In L. and Frw. 

 Shells N. A., I., 179, six jaws are figured, all 

 differing as to the ribs. 

 I have had no opportunity of examining H. areolata, the only 

 other species found within our limits. Among the species of the 

 subgenus foreign to the United States, H.pisana, Miill., alone has 

 been examined, the jaw being figured by Moquin-Tandon with 2-3 

 ribs only, and the number of the teeth being given by Thomson. 



The only information I can give of the lingual dentition is shown 

 in the figure of that of H. Tryoni (L. and Frw. Shells, I., 354). 

 There are 190 rows of about 43 1 43 teeth each. There appear 

 to be 16 perfect laterals. 



The base of attachment is long and narrow; the reflection is 

 pear-shaped, apparently without side cusps or cutting points in the 

 central and first nine laterals. The balance of the laterals have 

 the side cusp, and, no doubt, cutting point. I cannot from the 

 figure describe accurately the characteristics of the marginal teeth. 

 Unfortunately, I have preserved no membrane to describe and 

 figure more accurately. 



Subgenus Tachea. 



Our single species, H. hortensis, found only along the north- 

 eastern coast, and there usually restricted to the islands, agrees 

 in its jaw with the other known species of the subgenus. It is 



stout, arched, with blunt unattenuated ends; 

 anterior surface with stout, few, separated 

 ribs, denticulating either margin. 



The lingual membrane has 11G rows of 32 

 1 32 teeth each. The centrals have a 

 subtriangular base of attachment, so greatly 

 are the lower lateral angles expanded ; upper 

 margin reflected; reflection pear-shaped, 

 without outer cusps, but a single stout middle cusp, half as long 

 as the base of attachment, and bearing a short, conical cutting 

 point, reaching only about one-half the distance to the lower edge 

 of the base of attachment. First laterals like the centrals, but 

 unsymmetrical by the irregular cutting away of the lower inner 



Fig. 62. 



\ 



Jaw of Helix hortensis. 

 [Morse.] 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



angle of the base of attachment ; outer laterals with a more 

 developed cutting point and a decided side cusp and cutting point; 

 the change from the laterals to the marginals is shown in the 16th 

 tooth (see fig. 63), where the base of attachment is wider, the 

 reflection stouter and the inner cutting point becomes bifid. The 

 marginals are low, wide, the reflection equalling the base of 

 attachment, the inner cutting point short, bluntly bifid, the outer 

 shorter and blunt. 



Lingual dentition of Helix hortensis. [Morse.] 



Having no specimen to examine myself, I am dependent on 

 Morse's figures given above. 



Subgenus Pomatia. 



Jaw of our only species, H. aspersa, introduced by commerce 

 at Charleston, S. C. (where it is still common), high, thick, arcuate, 

 ends but little attenuated, blunt; cutting margin without median 

 projection ; anterior sui-face with 6 stout, separated ribs, deeply 

 denticulating either margin (pi. XVI., fig. 8). 



Lingual membrane of the same species (pi. XIII., fig. 7, a, 6, c) 

 long and narrow. Teeth 50 I 50, with 15 perfect laterals. 

 Centrals with base of attachment longer than wide, the lower 

 lateral angles but slightly produced, the lower margin in some 

 cases with a quadrate excavation or thinning as usually found in 

 Succinea ; the upper margin broadly reflected, reflection very 

 large, with a very stout, short median cusp, bearing a short, stout 

 cutting point reaching the lower edge of the base of attachment ; 

 side cusps obsolete, but bearing well developed, short side cutting 

 points. Laterals like centrals, but unsymraetrical by the sup- 

 pression of the inner, lower, lateral angle of the base of attach- 

 ment, and the inner side cutting point. Transition teeth from 

 the laterals to the marginals (6) with a more developed reflection, 

 a shorter inner cusp bearing a greatly developed bifid cutting 

 point. Marginals (c) low, wide, the reflection equalling the base 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



of attachment and bearing one inner, long, oblique, acutely bifid 

 cutting point, and one shorter, outer, sometimes bifid, side cutting 



point. 



The only other Pomatia whose dentition has been figured is 

 H. pomatia, which shows the same type of teeth (Goldfuss, 1. c. 

 pi. IV., fig. 6). The jaw of numerous European species is known, 

 and of the same type as in aspersa. 



(3) Jaw with delicate, distant ribs to its anterior surface, usually running 

 obliquely to the median line. 



Genus CYLINDRELLA, Pfr. 

 Jaw as in 31acroceramus, described below. 

 Lingual membrane of our two species C. jejuna and G. Poeyana 

 not examined b}' me. The dentition of the genus is very peculiar. 

 The membrane is exceedingly long and narrow. The base of 

 attachment of the centrals is small, long, narrow, with the upper 

 margin broadly reflected into a blunt, rounded and expanded 

 gouge-shaped cutting point ; the laterals have a long, subquad- 

 rangular base of attachment, bearing below, a large, bluntly 

 rounded, greatly expanded, palmate cusp, representing the inner 

 and central cusps of the laterals ; and, above, a long, slender, graceful 

 extension, representing the external cusp of the other Helicidse. 

 This last is bluntly truncated, or bears a recurved cusp smaller 

 but of same shape as that below ; or it has a laterally extended, small 



blunt point. In some species the laterals 

 '" extend to the margin of the lingual mem- 

 brane j 1 in others there are distinct marginal 

 teeth, long, narrow, laminar, with bluntly 

 recurved apices. A full description and 

 figures of these various forms of teeth will 

 be found in Journal de Conchyliologie, 

 January, 1870. 



I here give a figure of the dentition of one 



Lingual uVutitiun of , , 



r.tiindreiiascava. [Biand.] onl J of these types represented by the 



membrane of C. scseva. 



1 Probably this is the case in our species, as it is so in the allied C. clegans. 

 See pi. XX., fig. 6. 



Since the above was written, I find my anticipations realized in the case 

 of C. Poeyana. Specimens from Key West collected by Mr. W. W. Cal- 

 kins, have 14114 teeth of same type as in elegans. There are over 40 

 ribs on the jaw. m 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



223 



Fig. 65. 



Jaw of Macrocera- 



mus signatus. 



[Bland.] 



Genus MACROCERAMUS, Guild. 



Jaw thin, almost membranous, semi-transparent, light horn 

 colored, strongly arched, ends acuminated; cutting margin without 

 median projection ; anterior surface with numer- 

 ous delicate, separated ribs, denticulating both 

 margins ; these ribs run obliquely towards the 

 median line of the jaw, so that the central ribs 

 meet before reaching the lower margin of the jaw, 

 forming an upper median triangular space be- 

 tween the ribs. 



It was formerly considered that this jaw was 

 actually in separate pieces, whose overlapping 

 margin formed the ribs upon the anterior surface 

 (see fig. 65). More careful examination, however, 

 has proved the jaw to be in one single piece, with 

 delicate ribs upon its surface. 



There are over 50 ribs on the jaw of the only 

 one of our species I have examined, M. Gossei. I give a copy of 

 Mr. Bland's figure of the jaw of M. signatus, which is similar. 



The lingual membrane of Macroceramus was supposed to be 

 the same as in Cylindrella described above, as that of M. signatus 

 was so found by Mr. Bland (Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist. N. Y., VIII., 

 162), and Crosse and Fischer (Journ.de Conch., 1810, pi. III., fig. 

 14-16). It was, therefore, with surprise that I found an entirely 

 different type of dentition in M. Gossei. I can in this place only 

 note the difference, and leave to future study the question of 

 its bearing on the generic position of the species. 



M. Gossei (pi. XV., fig. 1) has a membrane very long and narrow; 

 teeth about 40 1 40, in scarcely oblique transverse rows, deci- 

 dedly not en chevron. Centrals with a long, narrow base of at- 

 tachment with somewhat expanded lower lateral angles, its upper 

 margin squarely reflected. The reflected portion is very small, 

 and bears three short, blunt cusps, the median the largest, all 

 three with distinct cutting points. The base of attachment of the 

 laterals is long and narrow, its outer lower angle irregularly cut 

 away ; the upper margin broadly and obliquely reflected, the re- 

 flected portion thrown off obliquely towards the margin of the 

 lingual membrane, very short and bearing two stout, blunt, short 

 cusps, the inner the larger, also thrown obliquely towards the 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



outer margin of the membrane ; both of the cusps bear distinct 

 cutting points, the outer one small, the inner one narrow, blunt, 

 almost as long as the base of attachment. There are no distinct 

 marginals, the laterals decreasing in size as they pass off laterally, 

 those at the edge of the membrane (fig. c) having one large inner 

 cutting point, and several, outer, irregular smaller ones. I have 

 oriven a a group of centrals and laterals, b a group of laterals, and 

 c an extreme lateral or marginal. 1 



I have had no opportunity of examining M. Kieneri. 



Genus BULIMXILUS, Leach. 3 



Jaw thin, arcuate, ends but little attenuated ; no median pro- 

 jection to the cutting edge ; anterior surface with numerous, 

 separated, delicate ribs, denticulating either margin, 

 Fig. 6G. sometimes the upper median ones running obliquely 

 ^rfjjK towards the median line, or even arranged en chevron 

 >'W \/X as * n M acroceramus t with an upper median triangu- 

 9 VJ lar compartment. 



jaw of The jaw of B. dealbatus is here figured. It is quite 



Bulimuhts 



dealbatus. arched. That of B. Marielinus and alternatus is of 

 the same t3'pe. I have given on plate XVI., fig. 12, 

 a more enlarged view of one end of the jaw of B. sufflatus, to 

 show more accurately the character of the ribs. 



The lingual membrane of the genus as now received varies too 

 much to allow of a general description. It can only be said that 

 the marginal teeth are quadrate, not aculeate. I will here simply 

 confine myself to describing the membrane of the only one of our 

 species of which I have preserved the lingual membrane. 



Fig. (57 shows the general arrangement of the teeth on the mem- 

 brane of B. dealbatus, the characters of the individual teeth being 

 shown in pi. XV., fig. 7. There are 94 rows of 25 1 25 in one 

 specimen examined. Another had 20 1 20 teeth, with 14 per- 

 fect laterals. 



The central tooth has a base of attachment longer than wide, 

 with but little expanded lower lateral angles, its lower margin 



1 Similar dentition is found in M. turricula, Pfr., of Cuba. See below, 

 pi. XX, fig. 9. 



2 I use this generic name only temporarily. As suggested by von 

 Martens, it must eventually be restricted to those species whose dentition is 

 like that of B. Quadelupemis, the type of the genus. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



225 



incurved, its upper margin broadly reflected. The reflection is 

 large and has subobsolete side cusps bearing well developed 

 cutting points, and a short, stout median cusp, bearing a short, 

 stout cutting point not quite reaching the lower margin of the base 

 of attachment. The laterals are of the same general form as the 



Fisr. 07. 



^QGDWGOQqg, 



Lingual deutiliou of Bulimuluts dealbutus. 



centrals, but are larger, broader in proportion, and are rendered 

 unsyrnmetrical by the suppression of the lower inner angle of the 

 base of attachment, and inner side cusp and cutting point. The 

 marginal teeth (fig. b) are but a simple modification of the laterals, 

 formed by the proportionally greater development of the reflection 

 in comparison with that of the base of attachment, and the greater 

 development of the cutting points. On the extreme marginals 

 the cutting points are shorter and much blunter (fig. c). 



The dentition of Bulimulus allernatus is figured on p. 203 of 

 L. and Frw. Shells, I. I have preserved no specimen from which 

 I can more accurately draw the individual teeth. It has 75 rows 

 of 37 1 37 teeth, all apparently of the same character as in B. 

 dealbatus. 



I have not examined B. midtilineatus, Dormani, Ifarielinus, 

 Floridanus, patriarcha, Schiedeanus. 



c. Jaw in numerous distinct pieces, sometimes soldered together above, 

 free and imbricated below. Marginal teeth quadrate. Orthalicin^. 



Genus LIGUTJS, Montf. 



Jaw thick, arcuate, ends rapidly attenuated, pointed ; composite, 

 being in numerous, separate, free, imbricated, triangular pieces, 

 with sutures inclined obliquely to the centre of the jaw, so as to 



leave an upper median, angular piece ; other 

 Yia-. 68. pieces are soldered together above. Cutting 



edge with no median projection, serrated by 

 the lower angles of the oblique pieces. For 

 more detailed description see below, under 

 Jaw of l. virgineus. Orlhalicus, which has a similar jaw. I am 




226 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



not able to give a figure of the jaw of the only species found 

 within our limits, L.fasciatus. It is however figured by Leidy 

 (Terr. Moll. U. S., I., pi. V., fig. 4, a, b). It is similar to that of 

 the allied species L. virgineus, which is here figured on p. 225. 



The only species found within our limits, L.fasciatus, has about 



69 l 69 teeth, judging from a membrane examined by me. 



That figured in L. and Frw. Shells, I., p. 214, has 94 rows of 55 



1 55 teeth each. As elsewhere stated, there is often a difference 



in the number of transverse teeth in almost all species, and indeed 

 upon different parts of the same membrane. 



The central tooth (pi. VI., fig. E, a) has a base of attachment 

 long and narrow, with strongly incurved sides, widely expanded, 

 excurved and fringed lower margin, and upper margin less ex" 

 panded, rounded, and broadly reflected. The reflection is stout 

 and very rapidly narrows without any appearance of side cusps 

 into a ver}' broad, long, bluntly rounded median cusp, bearing a 

 still broader, short, bluntly truncated cutting edge (as such a 

 blunt organ cannot be called a point) reaching nearly to the lower 

 edge of the base of attachment. It may be that I have here in- 

 correctly considered the upper margin of the base of attachment 

 as reflected and extended into the cusp. As in the case of the 

 side teeth, I should, perhaps, rather say that the upper margin is 

 not reflected, but that just below the middle of the base of attach- 

 ment there springs up from its surface a broad, gouge-shaped 

 cusp, bearing a still broader cutting edge (see pi. VI., fig. E, d, 

 where the form of the cusp of the side teeth is shown by the pro- 

 file). The side teeth run rapidly and obliquely backward from 

 the central tooth, thus giving a chevron-like arrangement to the 

 membrane. The teeth are crowded together both longitudinally 

 and transversely, excepting as they approach the outer edges of 

 the membrane, where they are much more separated. 



I have used the term side teeth instead of lateral and marginal 

 teeth, because it is difficult to decide which of these types they 

 properly are. Taking into consideration the fact of there being 

 distinct lateral teeth in the allied species, L. virgineus, and that 

 the marginals of that species resemble the side teeth of L.fas- 

 ciatus, I am inclined to believe we should consider all the side 

 teeth of fasciatus as marginals. In this case we must consider 

 that the lateral teeth are entirely suppressed. The marginals, as I 

 have decided to call them, are of the same type as the centrals. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



The base of attachment is, however, unsymmetrical by the suppres- 

 sion of both upper and lower inner lateral expansion ; the upper 

 margin is simply squarely truncated. Above the centre of the base 

 of attachment springs from its surface the gouge-shaped, rounded, 

 gradually expanding cusp reaching nearly the lower margin of the 

 base of attachment and produced into a still more expanded, 

 bluntly truncated cutting edge (one cannot call it a cutting point), 

 which projects far beyond the lower margin of the base of attach- 

 ment on to the teeth of the next transverse row, and is also greatly 

 expanded on the outer side, so as to overlap the adjoining tooth. 

 This cutting edge is slightly incurved at its centre. There is one 

 point of difference between the central and adjoining marginal 

 teeth which is very marked ; in the centrals the lower margin of 

 the base of attachment is more expanded than the cutting edge, 

 the reverse of which is found in the marginals. 



The marginals retain this general form to the extreme edge of 

 the membrane, but they decrease greatly in size upon the edge. 

 The outer marginals have to their cusps a small side spur, gouge- 

 shaped as the cusp itself; the extreme marginals have such a spur 

 at either side. In both cases the cutting edge springs from the 

 outer side of this side spur, which must be considered as repre- 

 senting the side cusps of the usual Helicinse type of dentition. I 

 have elsewftere (Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., XL, 39) shown that 

 this type of tooth is but a modification of the usual type brought 

 about b}^ the expansion, bluntly rounding and shortening of the 

 cusps, and the still greater expansion, bluntly rounding and short- 

 ening of the cutting points, which are quite changed into wide 

 cutting edges. 



I have given on pi. VL, fig. E, a group of central and marginal 

 teeth in a, an outer marginal in c, a marginal in profile in d. 



The allied species L. virgineus differs from fasciatus in having 

 a long blunt cutting point to its central tooth, and by the presence 

 of several true lateral teeth with long cutting points, also in the 

 presence of several teeth showing a gradual change from the 

 laterals to the marginals. A full description and detailed figures 

 of its dentition are given by me in Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist. N. Y., 

 XL, 41, pi. III. 



Liguus is nearly allied in its lingual dentition to Orthalicus, but 

 in that genus also I have found one species with true lateral teeth, 

 as will be shown below. 




228 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



. Genus OKTHALICUS, Beck. 



Jaw composite, in numerous free, imbricated pieces, usually with 

 its sutures oblique to the centre of the jaw, leaving an upper, 

 angular, median piece; these pieces soldered together above. N 

 median projection to the cutting edge, which is serrated by the 

 lower angles of the separate pieces. 



The jaw of the only species within our limits, 0. undatus, Brug. 

 (pi. XVI., fig. 13) is of the type usual in this genus and Liguus, but 

 up to the present time never observed in any other genus. It is 

 composite, its separate pieces being apparently soldered firmly at 

 their upper portions, where, indeed, they seem collectively to form 

 a jaw in a single piece as in Helix, etc., but at their lower portion 

 positively detached and free, imbricated one upon another. The 

 jaw may in one sense be said to be in a single piece, as argued 

 recently by Messrs. Fischer and Crosse (Moll. Mex. et Guat.), 

 but with equal correctness it may surely be said to be composite, 

 as the amalgamation of the upper portion is produced by the 

 joining of absolutely separate pieces. There are seventeen of 

 these plates in the jaw figured, though the number varies, the 

 upper central one apparently lying upon the adjoining ones, which 

 are broad and extend from the upper to the lower margin of the 

 jaw. The jaw is strongly arched, with attenuated, blunt ends. 

 There are well-marked perpendicular grooves upon the anterior 

 surface of many of the plates The upper central plate is trian- 

 gular, from which fact the name Goniognatha has been applied to 

 the section I have called Orthalicinse. Cylindrella, Macrocera- 

 mus, Pineria, Partirfa, and some species of Bulimulus also have 

 an upper median triangular compartment to their jaw, but in their 

 case the jaw is in one single piece, with distant, delicate ribs, 

 running obliquely to the central line, some of the upper ones 

 meeting before reaching the lower margin of the jaw, thus leaving 

 a triangular space, not a separate piece. 



I have myself figured the jaw of 0. melanochilus, Yah, under 

 the name of 0. zebra (L. and Frw. Shells N. A., I., p. 215, fig. 367), 

 of gallina-sultana (Ann. N. Y. Lye. Nat. Hist., XI., pi. IV., fig. 

 E). The last named has also been figured by Troschel (Arch, 

 fiir Nat., 1849, pi. IV., iig. 3); the jaw of 0. iostomus is figured 

 by Crosse and Fischer (Moll. Mex. et Guat., pi. XIX., fig. 8), and 

 0. longus by the same authors (I., c. pi. XIX., fig. 1). I have 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



also examined the jaw of 0. obductus, Shuttl. (Ann. Lye. N. H. 

 of N. Y., XL, p. 37.) All these species have the same composite 

 type of jaw. 



The lingual dentition of Orthalicus undatus is so nearly similar 

 to that of Liguus fasciatus, that I merely compare it with the 

 description given above of that species. In 0. undatus the cen- 

 tral tooth (pi. VI., fig. D) is broader in proportion to its length ; 

 the base of attachment is less expanded at the upper margin, and 

 very much less so at its lower margin, and the sides are not in- 

 curved ; the cusp is stouter, longer, reaching the lower edge of 

 the base of attachment, and it has subobsolete, but distinctly 

 marked side cusps ; the cutting edge is much more expanded, over- 

 lapping the next row of teeth. The first marginals differ from 

 those of L. fasciatus in having a less developed cutting edge, the 

 outer marginals have the side spurs to their cusps much more 

 developed and even the cutting edge is trilobed. The extreme 

 marginals are not so small. There are about 53 1 53 teeth, 

 on one part of one membrane; a wide part of another membrane 

 had 1061106. 



All the species of Orthalicus enumerated above whose dentition 

 is known have the same type of teeth as 0. undatus, excepting 0. 

 gallina-sultana. This last (see Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., XL, 38, 

 pi. IV., fig. A) is peculiar in having a long, stout cutting point with 

 subobsolete side points to its central tooth, and three lateral teeth 

 of same form but unsymmetrical. Thus in both Liguus and Or- 

 thalicus we find the usual type of dentition is not constant except- 

 ing as to the marginal teeth. 



0. zebra. Too late for illustration I have received specimens 

 from Key West, collected by Mr. W. W. Calkins. It is the form 

 figured in Terr. Moll. U. S., IV., pi. LXXVIIL, fig. 12, and copied 

 in L. and Frw. Shells N. A., I., p.,216, fig. 370 (not fig. 371, which is 

 referred by Fischer and Crosse to 0. melanochilus, Val.). The 

 jaw has 7 1 7 separate pieces. The lingual membrane has 

 126 1 126 teeth. The teeth are of same type as in 0. undatus, 

 but the cutting edge of the centrals and first laterals is shorter 

 than the base of attachment. It is, perhaps, a variety of undatus. 



Genus PUNCTUM, Morse. 



But one species of this genus has been described, P. pygmseum, 

 Dr., hitherto known in America as Helix minutissima, Lea. A 




230 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Jaw of F. pygmceum. [Morse.] 



Fic. 70. 



full account of its history with all published information relating 

 to it has been given by Mr. Bland and myself in Ann. of Lye. Nat. 

 Hist, of N. Y., X., 306. The jaw is low, wide, slightly arcuate, 



with blunt, squarely truncated 

 Fig. 69. ends ; it is composed of six- 



teen separate pieces, each 

 higher than wide, with slightly 

 overlapping edges ; these 

 pieces do not run oblique^ 

 towards the middle of the jaw, 

 there is, therefore, no appearance of an upper median triangular 

 piece as in Orthalicus and Liguus. 



The lingual membrane is long and narrow. There are 54 rows 

 of 13 1 13 teeth each. The centrals have a base of attachment 



much longer than wide, expanded 

 below and squarely truncated, very 

 much narrowed above, reflected. 

 The reflection is very small and has, 

 according to Morse, one single cusp, 

 but Schacko (Malak. Blatt. 1872, 

 178) describes the reflection in some 

 European specimens as tricuspid. 

 Laterals of same form as centrals, 

 but with wider base of attachment in the first ones and bicuspid ; 

 outer laterals much narrower. There are no distinct marginals. 

 All the teeth are decidedly separated. 



I have not examined the jaw or lingual membrane of this spe- 

 cies, but am entirely dependent on Morse for the descriptions and 

 figures of the American form given above. While treating of the 

 identity of the American and European forms in the paper refer- 

 red to above, we have pointed out the differences in the jaw and 

 membrane of the two forms, which, however, do not appear to be 

 of specific value. 



Lingual dentition of P. pygmceum. 

 [Morse.] 



d. Jaw in a single piece, with an accessory, quadrate plate above. Mar- 

 ginal teeth quadrate. Succinin^e. 



Genus SUCCINEA, Drap. 



Jaw with an upper, quadrangular, accessory plate. The jaw is 

 strongly arched, the ends acuminated in S. avara (fig. 71), blunt 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



231 



in obliqua, ovalis, Totteniana (fig. 71), campestris, lineata, and 

 effusa ; there is a median projection to the cutting margin, some- 

 times broken by the ends of ribs. These ribs are found in S. Tot- 

 teniana (3) (see fig. 71) ; S. obliqua (3-7) ; ovalis (over 7) ; I de- 

 tected no ribs on that of S. avara, lineata, campestris, Nuttalliana, 

 Sillimani, or effusa. 



Fig. 71. 



Fig. 72. 



Jaw of Succinea Totteniana. 

 [Morse.] 



Jaw of Succinea avara. 



The general arrangement of the lingual membrane is shown in 

 fig. 73 of 8. avara, while the characters of the separate teeth 



Fie. 73. 



Lingual dentition of Succinea avara. 



are better seen in pi. XV., fig. 3. The peculiar character of the 

 dentition is the cutting away or thinning of the middle portion of 

 the lower edge of the base of attachment in the central teeth, 

 and the inner lower lateral angle of the base of attachment in the 

 laterals and still more in the marginals. The marginal teeth are 

 also often peculiar in the denticulation of their reflected cusps. 

 They have usually two small outer side cusps, the inner the smaller, 

 each bearing cutting points proportioned to their size. The reflec- 

 tion of the teeth is also small in proportion to the base of attach- 

 ment. In other respects the dentition of the genus is very much 

 like that of the Helicinse. 



Succinea Sillimani (pi. XVII., fig. 12) has 24124 teeth. 



Succinea ovalis has not been examined by me. Morse gives 

 80 rows of 40140 teeth. 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Succinea lineata (pi. XV., fig. 11) has 26126 teeth, with 4 

 perfect laterals, but the transition to marginals is very gradual. 

 The teeth have a very broad base of attachment, and very slender, 

 sharp cutting points. 



Succinea avara (pi. XV., fig. 3) has 21 1 21 teeth, with about 

 8 perfect laterals. Morse counted 19 1 19 teeth. 



Succinea obliqua (pi. XV., fig. 4) has 43 1 43 teeth, with 10 

 perfect laterals. 



Succinea Totteniana is said by Morse, whose figure is given in 

 L.and Frw. Shells, I., p. 267, to have 100 rows of 33133 teeth. 

 The bases of attachment are very narrow. 



Succinea campestris (pi. XV., fig. 10) has 18 1 18 teeth, 

 with about 10 perfect laterals. Morse gives 50 rows of 30 1 30. 

 The central tooth has a peculiarly narrow base of attachment, 

 and a very greatly developed median cusp, the side cusps being 

 subobsolete. 



Succinea NuUalliana (fig. 74). Teeth 19 1 19. 



Ficr. 74. 



Succinea effusa (pi. XV., fig. 6) has 15 1 15 teeth, with 10 

 perfect laterals. 



Succinea Stretchiana (pi. XX., fig. 7). 16116. 8 laterals. 



1 have had no opportunity of examining the other species of 

 Succinea found within our limits. 



Family VERONICELLID^E. 



Genus VERONICELLA Blainv. 



Jaw (fig. 75) low, wide, thick, slightly arcuate ; ends but little 



attenuated, blunt; cutting margin without median 



^''-;, 22 projection ; anterior surface with numerous, stout? 



^jPflfiffl^ crowded ribs, denticulating either margin, 24 in V. 



jaw of Floridana. 



veroniceiia Lingual membrane, as seen in fig. 76, is arranged 



as usual in the Hehcmee, the transverse rows being 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



233 



almost horizontal. By fig. 11 of pi. XVII., representing V. Flori- 

 do.na, it will be seen that the teeth are of a very peculiar type. 



The lingual membrane is long and very broad, comprising (in 

 the Florida species) about 60 1 60 teeth. The centrals have 

 their base of attachment quite small, long and narrow, attenuated 

 to a point above, gradually enlarging toward the base, above which 

 are lateral, bluntly pointed, wing-like expansions ; the lower mar- 

 gin is broad, and has a deep, rounded excavation ; in some cases 

 the lateral expansions are so produced as to give an almost cruci- 

 form appearance to the base of attachment; below the centre of 

 the base of attachment, on its anterior surface, is a stout, blunt, 

 short, simple cusp, ending in a short, stout cutting point. 



Fig. 76. 



o$233353W^ 



Lingual dentitiou of Veronicella Floridana. 



The lateral teeth are very irregular in shape, but retain the bi- 

 cuspid character peculiar to the Geophila ; they are longer and 

 much wider than the centrals ; the bases of attachment are 

 very irregular in shape, very unsymmetrical, subquadrate or ir- 

 regularly excavated above, thence curve outwards and downwards, 

 until at their lower extremity they exhibit the lateral expansions 

 and basal excavation of the central tooth, but both these charac- 

 ters are much more developed than in the centrals, and from the 

 want of symmetry in the teeth, are found only on the outer side 

 of each tooth ; the upper edge is squarely reflected, the reflection 

 is very large, extends half way to the lower edge of the base of 

 attachment, and is produced beyond that into a blunt, stout cusp 

 bearing a stout cutting point ; the side cusps are almost obsolete, 

 the inner one is much larger than the outer one, neither with dis- 

 tinct cutting point. The marginal teeth are a simple modification 

 of the laterals, being reduced to a subquadrate shape, with the 

 cutting point of the cusp much more produced. 



I give on pi. XVI., fig. 11, a group of centrals and laterals in a, 

 a marginal in b. 



I have not been able to examine V. olivacea, the only other 

 species found within our limits. 

 16 




234 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



The species of the genus foreign to the United States hitherto 

 examined agree in their jaw and lingual dentition with V. 

 Floridana. 



EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. 

 Plate I. 



Fig. 1. Glandina truncata, Say. 



a. Central and adjacent marginals. 



b. The twentieth tooth. 



c. The last tooth. 



Fig. 2. Macrocyclis Duranti, Newc. 



a. Central and adjacent teeth. 



b. The last two teeth. 

 Fig. 3. M. concava, Say. 



a. Central and adjacent teeth. 



b. The last ten teeth. 



c. The last tooth from another part of the membrane. 

 Fig. 4. M. Vancouverensis, Lea. 



a. Central and adjacent teeth. 



b. The last five teeth. 



c. The first lateral seen from above on a different scale 



of enlargement. 

 Fig. 5. M. Voyana, Newc. 



a. Central and adjacent teeth. 



b. Extreme marginals. 



Note. This plate must be studied in connection with the descriptions 

 in the text. It will there be seen that Fig. 2a and Fig. 4 are taken from 

 below, to better show the base of attachment. Figs. 3a, 5a, and Ac are 

 taken from above, and more correctly show the form of the cusp. 



Plate II. 



Fig. 1. Zonites laevigatas, Pfr. The central tooth with all the 



teeth to the right of it. 

 Fig. 2. The same, more highly enlarged, to the fifth tooth. 

 Fig. 3. Zonites cellarius, Mull. Same reference as in fig. 1. 

 Fig. 4. Zonites friabilis, W. G. B. 



a. Central and adjacent lateral. 



b. Extreme marginals from two adjacent rows. 

 Fig. 5. Zonites inornatus, Say. 



a. Central and first three laterals. 



b. Marginal tooth fourth from the end. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



Fig. 6. Zonites capnodes, W. G. B. 



a. Central and first lateral. 



b. Marginal teeth. 

 Fig. 7. Zonites fuliginosus, Griff. 



a. Central and first lateral. 



b. Third marginal from edge of lingual membrane. 



Plate III. 



Fig. 1. Zonites gularis, Say. 



a. Central and first lateral tooth. 

 6. Marginal tooth. 



Fig. 2. Zonites sculptilis, Bland. 



b. Extreme marginals. 

 Fig. 3. Zonites limatulus, Ward. 

 Fig. 4. Zonites capsella, Gould. 

 Fig. 5. Zonites Elliotti, Redf. 



b. An extreme marginal. 

 Fig. 6. Zonites deraissus, Binn. 

 Fig. 7. Zonites lasmodon, Phillips. 



c. Last marginal but three. 

 Fig. 8. Zonites intertextus, Binn. 

 Fig. 9. Zonites interims, Say. 



b. The 16th and 17th tooth. 



c. The 25th tooth. 

 Fig. 10. Zonites Gundlachi, Pfr. 



6. A group of marginals. 

 Fig. 11. Zonites ligerus, Say. 

 Fig. 12. Zonites capnodes, W. G. B. 

 a, 6, c, d. The base of attachment. 

 e. The reflection. 

 /",/. The obsolete side cusps. 

 g, g. The side cutting points. 

 h. The central cusp. 

 i. Central cutting point. 



Plate IV. 

 Fig. 1. Limax flavus, Lin. 



a. Central and first lateral teeth. 



b. Marginal tooth before the bifurcation commences. 



c. An extreme marginal, to show the bifurcation of the 



marginals. 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Fig. 2. Limax Hewstoni, J. G. Coop. 



a. Central and first lateral teeth. 



b. Extreme marginals. 

 Fig. 3. Limax agrestis, Lin. 



a. Central and first lateral teeth. 



b. First marginal teeth. 



c. Last three marginals. 

 Fig. 4. Limax maximus, Lin. 



a. A group of central and adjacent laterals. 



b. A marginal tooth before the commencement of the 



bifurcation. 



c. An extreme marginal, showing the bifurcation. 

 Fig. 5. Limax campestris, Binney. Same references as in fig. 1. 

 Fi. 6. Vitrina Pfeifferi, Newc. 



a. Central and lateral teeth. 

 6. Extreme marginal. 

 Fig. 1. Vitrina exilis, Mor. 



a. Central and lateral teeth. 



b. First marginals. 



c. Last marginals. 



Fig. 8. Vitrina limpida, Gould. Same references as in fig. 6. 



Plate V. 



Fig. 1. Ariolimax Californicus, J. G. Cooper. 



a. Central and first lateral teeth. 



b. Marginal teeth. 



Fig. 2. Ariolimax niger, J. G. Cooper. Extreme marginal teeth 



of an exceptional form. 

 Fig. 3. Ariolimax niger, J. G. Cooper. Same references as in 



fig. 1. 

 Fig. 4. Prophysaon Hemphilli, Bl. and Binn. Same references 



as in fig. 1. 

 Fig. 5. Arion hortensis, Fdr. Same references as in fig. 1. 



c. Extreme marginal. 



Fig. G. Ariolimax Columbianus, Gld. 



a. Central and first lateral teeth. 



b. c. Transition teeth from laterals to marginals. 



d. Marginal tooth. 



e. Extreme marginal tooth. 

 /. Marginal tooth in profile. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 237 



Fig. 7. Hemphillia glandulosa, Bl. and Binn. 



a. Central and first lateral teeth. 



b. Transition from lateral to marginal teeth. 



c. Marginal teeth near the edge of the membrane. 



d. Extreme marginal tooth. 



Plate VI. 



Fig. A. Tebennophorus Caroliniensis, Bosc. 



a. The central tooth. 



b. The first lateral. 



c. The last laterals. 



d. Marginal teeth. 



e. Extreme marginals. 

 Fig. B. Pallifera Wetherbyi. 



a. Central and lateral tooth. 

 6. Extreme marginals. 

 Fig. C. Pallifera dorsalis, Binn. 



a. Central and two lateral teeth. 



b. Marginal tooth. 



c. Extreme marginal. 



Fig. D. Orthalicus undatus, Brng. The central and first, second, 



fifteenth, fort^-eighth, and fiftieth marginals. 

 Fig. E. Liguus fasciatus, Mull. 



a. A group of central and marginal teeth. 



b. Marginal far removed. 



c. An extreme marginal. 



d. A marginal in profile. 



Plate VII. 



Fig. 1. Patula strigosa, Gld. 



a. Central and lateral teeth. 



b. Marginal teeth. 



c. Outer marginal tooth. 



d. An outer lateral on a different scale of enlargement. 



e. A central tooth from an embiyonic specimen. 

 Fig. 2. Patula Cooperi, W. G. B. 



a. Central and lateral. 



b. Outer marginals. 

 Fig. 3. Patula perspectiva, Say. 

 Fig. 4. Patula Idahoensis, Newc. 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Fig. 5. Patula alternata, Say. 



Fig. 6. Patula Hemphilli, Newc. 



Fig. 7. Patula alternata, Say. Yar. morel ax, ShuttL 



Fig. 8. Patula Cumberlandiana, Lea. 



Fig. 9. Patula solitaria, Say. 



Fig. 10. Patula striatella, Anthony. 



Plate VIII. 



a. Central and lateral teeth. 



b. The last lateral tooth. 



c. Inner marginal teeth. 



d. Outer marginal teeth. 

 Fig. 1. Helix Texasiana, Mor. 

 Fig. 2. Helix Troostiana, Lea. 

 Fig. 3. Helix uvulifera, ShuttL 

 Fig. 4. Helix espiloca, Rav. 

 Fig. 5. Helix Hazardi. Bl. 



Fig. 6. Helix septemvolva, Say. 

 Fig. 7. Helix Febigeri, Bl. 

 Fig. 8. Helix pustula, Fer. 

 Fig. 9. Helix auriformis, Bl. 

 Fig. 10. Helix Mooreana, W. Q. B. 

 Fig. 11. Helix fastigans, L. W. Say. 

 Fig. 12. Helix auriculata, Say. 



Plate IX. 

 Fig. 1. Helix Edvardsi, Bland. 



a. Central and first lateral. 



b. Marginal. 



c. Extreme marginal. 



Fig. 2. Helix polygyrella, Bland. Same references. 

 Fig. 3. Helix Yatesi, J. G. Coop. Same references. 

 Fig. 4. Helix monodon, Rack. Same references. 

 Fig. 5. Helix germana, Gld. Same references. 

 Fig. G. Helix hirsuta, Say. 



b. Transition from laterals to marginals. 

 Fig. 7. Helix stenotrema, Fer. 



a. Central and lateral teeth. 



b. Extreme marginals. 

 Fig. 8. Helix spinosa, Lea. 



Fig. 9. Helix barbigera, Redf. References as in fig. 6. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



Plate X. 



Fig. 1. Helix tridentata, Say. 

 Fig. 2. Helix palliata, Say. 



a. Central and first lateral. 



b. An outer lateral. 



c. A transition tooth between laterals and marginals. 



d. A marginal tooth. 

 Fig. 3. Helix Rugeli, Shuttl. 

 Fig. 4. Helix inflecta, Say. 

 Fig. 5. Helix fallax, Say. 



Fig. 6. Helix Hopetonensis, Shuttl. 



b. Marginal teeth. 

 Fig. 7. Helix appressa, Say. 



Plate XI. 



a. Central and lateral. 

 6. Inner marginal. 



c. Outer marginal. 



d. Transition from lateral to marginal. 

 Fig. 1. Helix albolabris, Say. 



Fig. 2. Helix Wetherbyi, Bl. 

 Fig. 3. Helix Roemeri, Pfr. 

 Fig. 4. Helix Downieana, Bl. 

 Fig. 5. Helix Sayii, Binn. 

 Fig. 6. Helix Clarki, Lea. 

 Fig. 7. Helix exoleta, Binn. 



Plate XII. 



Fig. 1. Helix elevata, Say. 

 Fig. 2. Helix Columbiana, Lea. 

 Fig. 3. Helix Mobiliana, Lea. 



b. Extreme marginals. 

 Fig. 4. Helix devia, Gld. 



a. Central and lateral tooth. 



b. An extreme lateral. 



c. Marginal teeth. 



d. The last marginal. 

 Fig. 5. Helix profunda, Say. 

 Fig. 6. Helix multilineata, Say. 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Fig. 7. Helix clausa, Say. 



b. Marginal teeth. 



c. Extreme marginals. 

 Fig. 8. Helix dentifera, Binney. 



b. Marginal tooth. 



Plate XIII. 



Fig. 1. Hemitrochus varians, Mke. 



a. Central and first lateral teeth. 



&, c. Marginal teeth. 

 Fig. 2. Helix griseola, Pfr. Same references. 

 Fig. 3. Helix Stearnsiana, Gabb. 



a. Group of central and lateral teeth. 



b. Group of teeth showing transition from laterals to 



marginals. 



c. A group of extreme marginal teeth. 

 Fig. 4. Helix Kelletti, Forbes. 



a. Central and first lateral tooth. 



b. Transition from laterals to marginals. 



c. Extreme marginal tooth. 



Fig. 5. Helix lineata, Say. Same references as in fig. 1. 



b. Marginal tooth. 

 Fig. G. Helix Newberryana, W. G. B. Same references as in fig. 4. 

 Fig. 7. Helix aspersa, Mull. Same references as in fig. 4. 

 Fig. 8. Helix fidelis, Gray. Same references as fig. 4. 

 Fig. 9. Helix infumata, Gld. 



a. Central and first lateral tooth. 

 b, c. Transition teeth from different parts of the membrane. 



d. Extreme marginal teeth. 



&* 



Plate XIV. 



a. Central and lateral teeth. 



b. Transition from laterals to marginals. 



c. Inner marginal teeth. 



d. Outer marginal teeth. 

 Fig. 1. Helix tudiculata, Binn. 

 Fig. 2. Helix arrosa, Gld. 



Fig. 3. Helix ruficincta, Newc. 



Fig. 4. Helix Traski, Newc. 



Fig. 5. Helix sequoieola, J. G. Coop. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



Fig. 6. Helix Ayresiana, Newc. 

 Fig. 1. Helix redimita, W. G. B. 

 Fig. 8. Helix Nickliniana, Lea. 

 Fig. 9. Helix raraentosa, Gld. 



8. The eighth tooth an outer lateral. 

 Fig. 10. Helix exarata, Pfr. 



Plate XV. 



a. Central and lateral teeth. 



b. Inner marginal tooth. 



c. Outer marginal tooth. 

 Fisr. 1. Macroceramus Gossei, Pfr. 

 Fig. 2. Pupa rupicola, Say. 



Fig. 3. Succinea avara, Say. 



Fig. 4. Succinea obliqua, Say. 



Fig. 5. Stenogyra decollata, Lin. 



Fig. 6. Succinea effusa, Shuttl. 



Fig. T. Bulimulus dealbatus, Say. 



Fig. 8. Stenogyra subula, Pfr. 



Fig. 9. Coecilianella subcylindrica, Lin. 



Fig. 10. Succinea campestris, Say. 



Fig. 11. Succinea lineata, W. G. B. 



Fig. 12. Pupa fallax, Say. 



Plate XVI. 



Jaw of: 



Stenogyra subula, Pfr. 



Arion hortensis, Fe*r. 



Vitrina limpida, Gld. 



Helix Newberryana, W. G. B. 

 5. Ferussacia subcylindrica, L. 



Hemphillia glandulosa, Bl. and Binn. 



Pupa rupicola, Say. 



Helix aspersa, Mull. 



Prophysaon Hemphilli, Bl. and Binn. 

 Fig. 10. Helix Yatesi, J. G. Cooper. 

 Fig. 11. Helix polygyrella, Bl. and J. G. Coop. 

 Fig. 12. Bulimulus sufflatus, Gld. 

 Fig. 13. Orthalicus undatus, Brug. 

 Fig. 14. Helix griseola, Pfr. 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Plate XYII. 

 Central, lateral, and outer marginal teeth of: 

 Fio-. 1. Zonites multidentatus, Binn. 

 Fig. 2. Zonites suppressus, Say. 

 Fig. 3. Zonites indentatus, Say. 

 Fig. 4. Zonites arboreus, Say. 

 Fig. 5. Zonites fulvus, Drap. 

 Fig. 6. Zonites viridulus, Mke. 

 Fia. 7. Zonites nitidns, Miill. 

 Fig. 8. Zonites milium, Morse. 

 Fig. 9. Zonites ferreus, Morse. 

 Fie;. 10. Veronicella Floridana, Binn. 

 Fig. 11. Succinea Sillimani, Bland. 



Plate XVIII. 



a. Central and lateral teeth. 



b. Transition from laterals to marginals. 



c. Inner marginal teeth. 



d. Outer marginal teeth. 

 Fig. 1. Helix Wheatleyi, Bland. 

 Fig. 2. Helix thyroides, Say. 



Fig. 3. Helix Pennsylvanica, Green. 



Fig. 4. Helix loricata, Grid. 



Fig. 5. Helix Mitchelliana, Lea. 



Fig. 6. Helix pulchella, Miill. 



Fig. t. Helix labyrinthica, Say. 



Fig. 8. Helix Townsendiana, Lea. 



Fig. 9. Helix asteriscus, Morse. 



Fig. 10. Helix obstricta, Say. 



Note. The following typographical errors in the earlier pages of this 

 paper should be carefully corrected : 



p. 141, third line from bottom, for Paluta read Patula. 



p. 14G, line 11, for former read latter. 



p. 147, line 20, for A?utderus read Anadenus. 



p. 148, line 12, for Simpulopsus read Siinpulopsis. 



p. 153, line 17 from bottom of right hand column, for Terussacia read Ferussacia. 



line 16, for Cnocilianella read Coecilianella ; also on p. 186. 

 p. 154, line 11 of left hand column, for Columbianaus read Columbianus. 

 p. 155, note, for ptychoptora read ptycophora. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



p. 180, line 13, for 5 read 8. 



p. 191, line 5 from bottom, for Colkett read Calkins. 



p. 165, line 19, Z. cerinoideus. Jaw as usual. Teeth 34 1 34, with 9 perfect 

 laterals. Charleston, S. C. (W. G. Masyck.) 



p. 171. Note. Z. cerinoideus also has these characteristics of Zonites. 



p. 176, line 15, add : excepting in the absence of the peculiar inner side cutting 

 point of that species. 



p. 186. Coecilianella. Since the above was printed, I have had an opportunity, 

 thanks to Mr. Bland, of examining the jaw and lingual membrane of C. Gundlachi 

 of St. Martin. The jaw has decided, numerous, broad, flat, slightly separated ribs, 

 denticulating either margin. 



In the plates the inner cutting point should have been bifid in pi. X. fig. 1, 16th 

 tooth. (The fourth figure from the right is the 10th tooth.) Fig. 3, d. PI. XI. fig. 

 1. b. PI. XII. fig. 1, 31st tooth. 



Helix rxificincta, pi. XIV. fig. 3. Another membrane has cutting points on all the 

 laterals. 



Helix exoleta. Two of four membranes recently examined have side cutting points 

 to outer laterals; the inner cutting point of marginals are also bifid. 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ON THE LINGUAL DENTITION AND GENITALIA OF PARTULA AND 



OTHER PTJLMONATA. 



BY W. G. BINNEY. 



I owe to the kindness of Dr. W. D. Hartman, of West Chester, 

 Pennsylvania, the opportunity of examining numerous species of 

 Partula. The specimens were received by him directly from Mr. 

 Garrett. Their identification is that of the latter, and may be 

 relied upon on account of his relations with Mr. Pease. Of their 

 value as distinct species, however, I have nothing to say. So 

 labelled were Partula fusca, Pease ; P. citrina, Pease ; P. plani- 

 labrum, Pease ; P. abbreviata, Pease ; P. umbilicata, Pease ; 

 P. bilineata, Pease ; P. amanda ; P. virginea, Pease ; P. gracilis. 

 Each of these were represented by several specimens still 

 remaining in their shells. Each species was in a separate bottle, 

 great care being taken to preserve their identity and pevent inter- 

 mingling of species. 



In addition to the above nine so-called species, there was one 



w 



large bottle containing many specimens of the following : Partula 

 rosea, Brod. ; P. formosa, Pease ; P. ? lugubris ; P. varia, Brod. ; 

 P. compacta, Pease ; P. Garretti, Pease ; P. ? dentifera, Pease ; 

 P. crassilabris, Pease ; P. Hebe, Pfr. ; P. protea, Pease ; P. 

 globosa, Pease ; P. approximata, Pease ; P. turgida, Pease ; P. 

 faba, Martyn. As the species of the above lot were not separately 

 indicated, the specimens are of value only as thi'owing light upon 

 the generic characters of Partula. Especially as proving the con- 

 stancy of the peculiar dentition of the lingual membrane, they 

 serve an excellent purpose. To this end I have examined the 

 membrane of all of the specimens in the bottle. The result of the 

 examination will be given below. 



The external characters of all the species agree. The animal 

 is blunt before. The tail is long and gradually acuminated. 

 There is no caudal mucus poi'e, no parallel furrows along the 

 side of the foot, no distinct locomotive disk. The labial processes 

 and the collar seem unusually developed. The anal and respira- 

 tory orifices are situated as usual in the shell-bearing Geophila. 

 The genital orifice is close behind and below the right eyepedun- 

 cle. The tentacles are present in all the species, protruding in 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



many specimens as fully as the eyepeduncles, in others inverted, 

 but plainly visible on opening the head, and their position indi- 

 cated exteriorly by a depression on the surface so plainly that I 

 wonder at their having been overlooked by Ferussac. 



I have observed nothing remarkable in the nervous, respiratory, 

 or alimentary systems. 



The jaw, as already stated b}' me (Ann. Lye. of Nat. Hist, of N.Y., 

 XI. 45), is very thin, transparent, light horn-colored; slightly 

 arcuate, its ends often gradually attenuated ; in some specimens is 

 a transverse, arched line of reenforcement above, but not parallel 

 to, the cutting margin ; there is no appearance of a median pro- 

 jection to the cutting margin ; the whole anterior surface, even 

 to the ends, is furnished with delicate, narrow, separated ribs, of 

 the type well known in Cylindrella, Macroceramus, Pineria, 

 Gaeotis, Amjihibulima, and many species of Biilimalus, their ends 

 decidedly breaking the continuity of either margin : these ribs 

 run obliquely to the median line of the jaw, so that at the centre 

 they form a triangular space over which are (in one specimen of 

 P. gracilis, some ten) ribs of unequal length, which do not reach 

 the lower margin ; there is, however, no distinct triangular com- 

 partment or separate piece, as in Liguus and Orthalicus. I have 

 found this form of jaw in P.fusca, citrina, planilabrum, abbrevi- 

 ate/,, umbilicata, amanda, virginea, bilineata, and gracilis. I have 

 not observed the jaw in all of the specimens of the species 

 enumerated on p. 244, but in many of them which I have examined 

 it proved the same as described above. The *jaw differs in the 

 various species in the more or less attenuation towards the ends, 

 and also in the number of the ribs, thus in virginea and gracilis 

 there are over 60, in bilineata I found but 50, while in one of the 

 unnamed individuals I found only about 36. This last I have 

 figured (pi. XIX., fig. 5) to show the general form of the jaw. 

 The character of the ribs is better shown in the more enlarged 

 view of the end of the jaw of P. virginea (fig. 11), while the dis- 

 position of the ribs at the centre of the jaw is shown in fig. 6 of 

 P. gracilis. 



The lingual membrane is broad. The central teeth (pi. XIX., 

 fig. 4, of that of P. amanda) have a base of attachment loug and 

 narrow, squarely reflected above, the lower edge incurved, with 

 slightly produced lateral expansions ; the reflection is large and 

 stout, with obsolete side cusps bearing decided, triangular cutting 




246 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



points, and a stout middle cusp bearing a stout cutting point which 

 reaches to the lower edge of the base of attachment. The lateral 

 teeth are longer and broader than the central tooth ; they are un- 

 symmetrical by the suppression of the inner cusp and cutting point, 

 and the lower half of the base of attachment being thrown off 

 towards the outer edge of the membrane, though its inner lower 

 lateral expansion is not suppressed ; the outer side cusp is well 

 developed and bears a short distinct cutting point; the inner 

 cusp is very stout and bears a very stout cutting point extending 

 slightly beyond the lower edge of the base of attachment. The 

 change from the lateral to the marginal teeth is formed by the 

 lesser size of the reflected portion and the greater development of 

 the inner cutting point, as well as by the blunt bifurcation of the 

 outer cutting point. The marginal teeth have their base of attach- 

 ment long and narrow, quadrangular, curving outward, prolonged 

 above the reflection, which is small, but bears a highly developed 

 cutting point obliquely and bluntly bicuspid on its outer edge, 

 the inner division much the larger. The number of perfect 

 laterals varies somewhat. I counted seven in citrina, eleven in 

 planilabi-um, ten in abbreviata and amanda, eight in umbilicata, 

 virginea, and bilineata, five only in gracilis. The number of 

 marginal teeth also varies, but they are numerous in all the species ; 

 in virginea I counted over one hundred and twenty. Excepting 

 that some of the membranes had narrower teeth than others, I 

 found no difference in them. They all agree (including those of 

 the species named on p. 244) with the figure given by Heynemann 

 (Mai. Blatt. 1861, t.i. fig. 1-la.) of the dentition of P. lirata. 



The genital system of one of the undetermined specimens is 

 given on pi. XIX., fig. 1. The ovary (ov.) is small and stout ; the 

 epididymis (ep.) is short and greatly convoluted at the end nearer 

 the oviduct ; the testicle (.), composed of short coeca, is small 

 and embedded in the upper lobe of the liver in the very apex of 

 the shell ; the oviduct (ovid.) is long, convoluted ; the vas deferens 

 (v. d.) enters the prostate high up on the oviduct, not at its lower 

 end, as usual ; it runs down to the external orifice, then up to near 

 the end of the penis sac, where it enters ; the vagina (v.) is long, 

 greatly swollen at the entrance of the duct of the genital bladder ; 

 the last mentioned organ (g. b.) is small, with a short duct which 

 enlarges greatly before entering the vagina ; the penis sac (p. s.) 

 is large, long, bluntly terminating, with a decided constriction 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



about its centre. In the other species examined, the retractor 

 muscle is inserted at the end of the penis sac. The same general 

 arrangement is found in the other species examined, bilineata (fig. 

 10), fusca (fig. 9), virginea (fig. 8), umbilicata (fig. 7), and in ab- 

 breviata, citrina, planilabrum, amanda. In P. virginea the con- 

 striction of the penis sac is much narrower and longer ; the upper 

 portion might be considered rather as a swelling of the vas 

 deferens. In most of the specimens examined there were well 

 formed shells of too full whorls in the oviduct, leading me to 

 believe the genus viviparous. Thus I found embryonic young 

 (usually only two) in planilabrum, abbreviata, umbilicata, bilineata, 

 amanda, and virginea. Those less grown were enveloped in a 

 sack. In gracilis, however, I found five white, calcareous eggs. 

 They contained, however, shells of two whorls, so that even if this 

 species actually lays the egg, it can only be at the moment the 

 young animal is ready to break it. In many of the undetermined 

 species, also, I found well formed eggs, and in some of them there 

 were these eggs, and also embryonic young not protected by eggs. 

 I suspect, therefore, that the young is actually brought forth living 

 in all cases. 



This closes my account of Partula. I add descriptions of 

 several species of Pulmonata, whose dentition has not yet been 

 published. As each lingual membrane is illustrated by a figure, I 

 have not considered it necessary to give a detailed description. 

 Macrocyclis euspira, Pfr. {Hyalina of von Martens, p 72.) 



Extracted from a dry specimen in the cabinet of Mr. Swift by 

 Mr. Thomas Bland. Ann. L. N. H. N. Y., XI. 73. 



. Jaw low,crescentic, ends pointed ; cutting margin with a decided, 

 sharp median projection. 



Lingual membrane long and narrow. Teeth arranged as in 

 Macrocyclis (see ante, p. 158). There are, however, no transition 

 teeth as in the American species, all the side teeth being true 

 marginals of the aculeate type. Teeth 30 1 30 (pi. XXI., fig. 3). 

 The centrals are deeply emarginate at the upper edge of their 

 base of attachment, and have expanded lower lateral angles ; they 

 have also a well-marked simple median cusp with a decided cutting 

 point. 



The species is placed by Yon Martens in Ammonoceras, a sub- 

 genus of Hyalina. 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Nanina subcircula, Mousson. 



Ilaiatea, Society Islands, Mr. Garrett to Dr. W. D. Hartman. 



Jaw not observed. 



Teeth (pi; XX., fig. 1) with obsolete side cusps, but distinct 

 cutting points on the centrals. Laterals unsymmetrical as usual 

 by the suppression of the inner cutting point, and inner lower 

 lateral expansions to the base of attachment. Marginals aculeate, 



bifid. 



The species is viviparous. 



Endodonta tumuloides, Garrett. 



Raratonga I., Cook's Isle. Received from Dr. W. D. Hartman, 

 who received it from Mr. Garrett. 



Teeth 17 1 11, with about 7 perfect laterals (pi. XXL, fig. 6). 

 The base of attachment of the centrals is subequilateral. There 

 are distinct side cutting points and cusps. The median cusp is 

 long. Laterals unsymmetrical as usual. Transition formed as 

 usual. Marginals low, wide, with one long, large, bifid inner cut- 

 ting point and one small side cutting point. 



Jaw not observed. 



Helix astur, Souv. 



New Caledonia, Mr. Thomas Bland. 



Jaw (pi. XX., fig. 11) low, wide, slightly arcuate ; ends scarcely 

 attenuated, blunt ; anterior surface without ribs; a wide, blunt, 

 median projection to the cutting edge ; a line of reenforcement 

 running above, and parallel to, the cutting margin ; a strong 

 muscular attachment to the upper margin. 



Lingual membrane (pi. XX., fig. 12) with 30 1 30 teeth, with 

 about 9 perfect laterals. Centrals (a) with square base of attach- 

 ment, well-developed side cusps and cutting points ; laterals same 

 as centrals, but unsymmetrical as usual ; transition to marginals 

 formed as usual (b) ; marginals (c) low, wide, with one inner, long, 

 broad, bifid cutting point, and one outer, small cutting point; 

 those figured (c) are extremes. 



Helix (Tkelidomus) auricoma, Fer. 



Lomas de Camoa, Cuba. Mr. Aranafo to Mr. Bland. 



JaAV arched, with blunt, scarcely attenuated ends; 12 broad ribs 

 distributed over the whole anterior surface and denticulating either 

 margin ; no median projection to the cutting margin. 



Lingual membrane (pi. XXL, fig. 5), with 42 1 42 teeth, of 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



which about 25 may be called laterals, but the change to margi- 

 nals is hardly marked, these last differing only in being smaller, 

 in having a more square base of attachment, and in having more 

 obtuse and more proportionally developed cutting points ; there 

 is no splitting of the inner cutting point of the marginals. The 

 centrals have subobsolete side cusps, but decided side cutting 

 points ; the central cusp is short and stout, the base of attach- 

 ment has greatly expanded lower lateral angles. Laterals like 

 the centrals, but unsymmetrical as usual. 



The dentition of this species resembles that of provisoria and 

 notabilis of the same subgenus. 



The genitalia are figured on pi. XIX., fig. 3. The penis sac 

 (p. s.) is stout, rounded, with long, pointed apex ; the vas deferens 

 (v. d.) enters it below the apex ; the retractor muscle (r.) is in- 

 serted in the vas deferens just before it enters the penis sac. 

 The genital bladder (gr.fi.) is short, cylindrical, with blunt end; 

 its duct is short and small. The penis sac enters the vagina 

 opposite the entrance of the genital bladder. 



Helix {Carocolus) sagemon, Beck. 



Cuba. Mr. Arango to Mr. T. Bland. 



Jaw high, arcuate, ends rapidly but slightly attenuated, blunt ; 

 cutting margin with broad, blunt, median projection ; no anterior 

 ribs. 



Lingual membrane (pi. XXL, fig. 4) very long and narrow, with 

 36 l 36 teeth, the transverse rows of teeth being unusually ob- 

 lique. The change from laterals to marginals is so gradual that it 

 is difficult to say how many of the former there are. Centrals with 

 base of attachment long, constricted at the middle, expanded 

 above and with greatly produced lower lateral expansions ; reflec- 

 tion large, with obsolete side cusps and no side cutting points, and 

 with a very broad, short median cusp, bearing a short, widely 

 expanded, square cutting edge (as it cannot be called a point).- 

 Laterals like the centrals, but unsymmetrical as usual, and with 

 an unsymmetrical cutting edge larger than in the central tooth. 

 The cutting edge becomes more developed as the teeth pass off 

 laterally, in proportion to the base of attachment and the cusp 

 also. Thus the marginals become formed without any splitting 

 of the inner cutting point, or any development of a side cusp and. 

 17 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



cuttino- point. This is better shown in the figures than can be 

 expressed in words. 



The genitalia of this species is figured on pi. XIX., fig. 2. The 

 testicle (t) is small and imbedded in the upper lobe of the liver ; 

 the epididymis (ep.) is long and greatly convoluted near its 

 junction with the oviduct ; the accessory gland (ace.) is composed 

 of several tubular cseca of unequal length ; the ovary (ou.) is very 

 large and sabre-shaped ; the oviduct (ovid.) is narrow, but slightly 

 convoluted; the genital bladder (g. b.) is large, globular, with a 

 short, stout duct entering the vagina at about the middle of its 

 length ; the penis sac (p. s.) is large, with a central constriction, 

 tapering towards the apex, where the vas deferens (v. d.) enters, 

 and bearing the insertion of the retractor muscle (r.) below its 

 apex ; it enters the cloaca close to the external orifice. 



Helix (Caracolus) Arangiana, Poey. 



Cuba. Mr. Arango to Mr. Thomas Bland. 



Jaw (pi. XXL, fig. 2) greatly arched, ends blunt, scarcely acu- 

 minated ; anterior surface without ribs ; cutting margin with a 

 blunt median projection. 



Lingual membrane very long and narrow (pi. XXL, fig. 1), with 

 33 1 33 teeth, of same type as in H. sagemon (see above). The 

 lower edge of the base of attachment appears delicately fringed. 



Genitalia as in H. sagemon (see above). 



Helix (Pomatia) Sieboldtiana, Pfr. 



Japan. Received from Dr. W. D. Hartman. 



Jaw high, arched, ends but little attenuated, blunt; anterior 

 surface with eight stout, separated ribs, denticulating either 

 margin ; no median projection to the cutting margin. 



Lingual membrane long and narrow (pi. XXL, fig. 8) ; teeth 

 39 1 39, with 21 perfect laterals; centrals with base of attach- 

 ment long, narrow, the lower lateral angles somewhat expanded, 

 but blunt ; median cusp long, stout, cutting point stout, blunt, 

 not reaching the lower edge of the base of attachment ; side cusps 

 obsolete ; no side cutting points. Laterals like the centrals, but 

 longer and wider, and unsymmetrical as usual ; the fifteenth lateral 

 has a side cutting point. The transition to marginals formed as 

 usual by the greater proportional development and splitting of the 

 cutting point. Marginals low, wide, with one broad, oblique, 

 bluntly bifid cutting point, and one short, side cutting point. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



The species is placed by Von Martens in Acusta, a subgenus of 

 Nanina, judging from shell alone. 



Helix convicta, Cox. 



Australia. Received from Dr. Cox by Dr. W. D. Hartman. 



Jaw high, arcuate, thick; ends but little attenuated, blunt; no 

 median projection to cutting edge ; anterior surface with 7 sepa- 

 rated, stout ribs. 



Lingual membrane (pi. XXI., fig. 7) with 30 1 30 teeth, with 

 10 laterals. The centrals and inner laterals have no side cutting 

 points. Transition to marginals as usual (see last species). Mar- 

 ginals low, wide, with one short, broad, bifid inner cutting point, 

 and one small, side cutting point. 



Helix ( Dorcasia) pyrozona, Phil. 



" Outside the great wall of China." Lieut. Wild, U. S. N., to Dr. 

 W. D. Hartman. 



Jaw as in Pomatia (see above, H. Sieboldtiana). Ribs few, stout. 



Lingual membrane (pi, XX., fig. 8), with 28 1 28 teeth, with 

 10 perfect laterals. It is difficult to distinguish any cutting points 

 on the obsolete side cusps of centrals and inner laterals. The 

 general characters of the teeth are as in H. Sieboldtiana (see above). 



Stenogyra hasta, Pfr. 



Cuba. Received from Mr. Bland. 



Jaw (pi. XX., fig. 2) low, arcuate, ends somewhat attenuated, 

 blunt ; no median projection to cutting margin ; anterior surface 

 with numerous delicate strise. 



Lingual membrane (pi. XX., fig. 3) as usual in the genus (see 

 ante, p. 187). There are 18118 teeth. 



The species was formerly described as a Balea. This exami- 

 nation of the jaw and dentition shows its correct position to be 

 in Stenogyra. 



Macroceramus turricula, Pfr. 



Lomas de Camoa, Cuba. Mr. Arango to Mr. Bland. 



Jaw as usual in the genus (see ante, p. 223). Ribs 35. 



Lingual membrane (pi. XX., fig. 9) as in M. Gossei, Pfr. (see 

 above), not as in Cylindrella. 



Cylindrella {Gongylostoma) elegans, Pfr. 



Habana, Cuba. Mr. Arango to Mr. Thomas Bland. 



Lingual membrane (pi. XX., fig. 6) with 121 12 teeth, ar- 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ranged as usual in the genus(see ante, p. 222). The base of attach- 

 ment is shorter and stouter, the outer cusp of the laterals is larger 

 and on a shorter and stouter pedicle than in Cylindrella scseva, 

 fio-ured on page 222. There are no distinct marginals, the teeth 

 slightly and gradually changing in size as they pass off laterally, 

 until in the extremes the two cutting points become of almost 

 equal size and the outer one ceases to be on a distinct pedicle ; 

 the base of attachment also in the extremes is almost square. 



This membrane is of interest, being the first described of the 

 section Gongylostoma, whose dentition was unknown to Messrs. 

 Crosse and Fischer. 



Cylindrella cyclostoma, Pfr. 



Mr. Arango to Mr. Bland. Lomas de Camoa, Cuba. 



Jaw as usual in the genus, with over 10 delicate ribs (see ante, 

 p. 222). 



Lingual membrane long and narrow, as usual in the genus. 

 Laterals 2, marginals about 8, these and centrals of same type as 

 those figured by Messrs. Fischer and Crosse (Journal de Conchy- 

 liologie, 2d s., X.), for the group Cylindrella, s. s., as in Cylin- 

 drella costata, pi. IV., fig. 2. 



The first marginal, however, surely is of same type as the late- 

 rals, though much smaller and somewhat modified in form. It 

 appears like a transition from the one to the other. 



Cylindrella (Thaumasia) Humboldtiana, Pfr. 



Cuba. Mr. Arango to Mr. Bland. 



Lingual membrane long and narrow, as usual in the genus. 

 Teeth 8 1 8 of same type as figured by Messrs. Fischer and 

 Crosse for C. rosea (Journ. de Conch., XVIII, 1870, pi. IV. fig. 4). 



The species belongs, therefore, to their group Thaumasia. 



The jaw is as usual in the genus, with about 100 ribs. 



EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. 



Plate XIX. 



t. Testicle. 



e. Epididymis. 

 ac. Accessory gland of last 

 ov. Ovary. 

 ovid. Oviduct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



p. Prostate. 

 v. d. Yas deferens. 

 p. s. Penis sac. 



r. Retractor muscle of last. 

 or. External orifice of genitalia. 

 g. b. Genital bladder. 

 v. Vagina. 

 Fig. 1. Genitalia of Partula. 

 Fig. 2. " H. Sagemon, Beck. 



Fig. 3. " H. auricoma, Fe*r. 



Fig. 4. Lingual dentition of Partula amanda, Pease. The last 



figure is the extreme marginal in profile. 

 Fig. 5. Jaw of Partula. 

 Fig. 6. " " Partula gracilis, Pease. 

 Fig. 7. Genitalia of Partula umbilicata, Pease. 

 Fig. 8. " " P. virginea, Pease. 



Fig. 9. " " P. fusca, Pease. 



Fig. 10. " " P. bilineata, Pease. 



Fig. 11. Jaw of P. virginea, Pease. 



Plate XX. 



Lingual dentition and jaw of: 



Nanina subcircula, Mousson. 

 3. Stenogyra hasta, Pfr. 

 Helix vortex, Pfr. (See p. 180.) 

 Helix septemvolva, Say. (See p. 203.) 

 Cylindrella elegans, Pfr. 

 Succinea Stretchiana, Bland. (See p. 232.) 

 Helix pyrozona, Phil. 

 Macroceramus turricula, Pfr. 

 Holospira Goldfussi, Pfr. (See p. 183.) 

 14. The extreme figure is drawn from another portion of 

 the membrane, where the cusps are more highly de- 

 veloped. 

 Fig. 11, 12. Helix astur, Souv. 



Plate XXI. 



Jaw and lingual dentition of: 

 Fig. 1, 2. Helix Arangiana, Poey. 

 Fig. 3. Macrocyclis euspira, Pfr. 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Fig. 4. Helix Sagemon, Beck. 



Fisr. 5. Helix auricoma, Fer. 



Fig. 6. Endodonta tumuloides, Garrett. 



Fig. 7. Helix couvicta, Cox. 



Fig. 8. Helix Sieboldtiana, Pfr. 



Fig. 9. Zonites minusculus, Binney. (See p. 166.) 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



May 4. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-one members present. 



On an Indian Kitchenmidden. Prof. Cope exhibited a collection 

 of animal remains and fragments of pottery, flint arrow-heads, 

 etc., taken from an Indian kitchenmidden, in Charles County, 

 Maryland, by Oliver Norris Bryan. He stated that the animal 

 fragments included the bones of seventeen species of vertebrata, 

 and two of shells. Of the vertebrates, four are mammals, two 

 birds, four reptiles, and seven fishes. The mammals are the Vir- 

 ginia deer, the raccoon, the gray squirrel, and the opossum. The 

 bones of the Virginia deer are very numerous, and most of them 

 had been split into pieces lengthwise for the purpose of extract- 

 ing the marrow. Many portions of bones from all parts of the 

 skeleton were preserved, including portions of bones. Of the 

 raccoon three mandibular rami occur, with two of the squirrel, 

 and one of the opossum. 



The birds are represented by a number of parts of the turkey 

 and the tarsometatarse of some natatorial bird of the size of a 

 widgeon. The reptiles are all turtles, and include the snapper, the 

 box tortoise, and two emydes, one the Malaclemmys palustris, the 

 other probably the Pseudemys rugosa. Of fishes there are dermal 

 bones of sturgeons, various parts of the skeleton of the gar 

 (Lepidosteus crassus), and numerous bones of Siluroids of at 

 least two species. The larger of these has the pectoral spine 

 strongly pectinated. The smaller exhibits only an obsolete pec- 

 tination of the same. They are probably Amiurus lophius, Cope, 

 and A. lynx, Gird., respectively. There is a preoperculum of a 

 cycloid fish, perhaps a cyprinoid, and another preoperculum with 

 spiniferous border, belonging to some brackish water or anadro- 

 mous percoid. Numerous interneural and fin pieces indicate the 

 Rock-fish (Boccus lineatus). The mollusks are Unio purpureus 

 and Mesodon albolabris. 



May 11. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-three members present. 



On fossil Lemurs and Dogs Prof. Cope described a new genus 

 of lemurs from the eocene deposits of the Rocky Mountains, 

 stating that it belonged to the type which he had originally shown 

 to have relations with the Procyonidse and other related low 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



forms of Carnivora. It was characterized as follows: Molars 



4 3 the last with heel ; crowns of true molars of four opposite or 



slightly alternating tubercles, the external pair slightly crescentic 

 in sections; anterior inner tubercle bifid. The premolars are 

 compressed, the last acute and with an acute inner tubercle. This 

 form differs from Pantolestes, Cope, in the presence of the inner 

 cusp of the fourth premolar, and from Tomitherium, Cope, in the 

 double or bifid anterior inner tubercle of the true molars. From 

 Anapfomorphus, Cope, many details of its molar teeth distinguish 

 it. He named the genus Sai*colemur, and gave as the type S. 

 furcatus (Antiacodonfurcatus, Cope; Ann. Rept. U. S. Geological 

 Surv. Terrs., 1872, p. 608) ; other species are the S. pygmaeus, Cope 

 (1. c. p. 607); and S. mentalis. Cope (Systematic Gatal. Vert. New 

 Mexico, 1875, p. 17). He added that the genus Menotherium, 

 Cope, the only quadrumanous form certainly known from the 

 Miocene beds of the west, had apparently been redescribed by 

 Marsh under the name of Laopithecus. 



Prof. Cope exhibited the mandibular ramus of a new species of 

 dog of large size, which he had discovered in one of the Pliocene 

 formations of the west. It is considerably larger than the wolf, 

 and similar in size to the Amphicyon haydenii (Ganis haydenii, 

 Leidy); and may belong to the genus Amphicyon. It is distin- 

 guished for the large size of the tubercular molars and canine 

 teeth, and the small size of its premolar teeth. The premolars 

 are separated from each other and from the canine by short sub- 

 equal diastemata, but the fourth premolar and the true molars 

 form an uninterrupted series. The first tubercular molar is larger 

 than the last premolar, and the second tubercular is but little 

 smaller than the same tooth, and has its single flat root so grooved 

 as to foreshadow the two rooted condition seen in the A. haydenii. 

 The mandibular ramus is deepened posteriorly, and is remarkable 

 in the great anterior prolongation of the masseteric fossa, which 

 reaches as far as below the middle of the sectorial molar tooth. 

 The dimensions are as follows : Length of molar series from alve- 

 olus of canine M. .121 ; length from same to sectorial molar, .061 ; 

 length of sectorial, .031 ; width of do., .015; length of first tuber- 

 cular, .020; width of crown of do., .012 ; depth of ramus at pos- 

 terior border of do., .055 ; depth of ramus at anterior border of sec- 

 torial, .049 ; depth of do. at first or simple premolar, .038 ; long 

 diameter of canine tooth, .023. From A. haydenii the species dif- 

 fers in the position of the tubercular molars being on the con- 

 tinuous alveolar border as in typical dogs, in the one rooted 

 second tubercular tooth, and in the anterior extension of the 

 masseteric fossa. The species was named Canis ursinus. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



May 18. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-seven members present. 



On the Antelope-Deer of the Santa Fe 3Iarls. Prof. Cope 

 exhibited specimens of the dentition, horns, etc., of the ante- 

 lope-deer found by the paleontologist of the Wheeler survey of 

 New Mexico. He coincided with Prof. Gervais' view that the 

 oldest name for the genus is Dicrocerus, Lartet, of which the 

 D. dichotomus of the French Miocene is type. The American 

 species are D. necatus, Leidy (Merycodus, Leidy ; Cervus war- 

 renii, Leidy); D.furcatus, Leidy; (Antilope and Gosoryx, Leidy) ; 

 D. ramosus, Cope ; D. gemmifer, Cope (Merycodus, Cope) ; and D. 

 teres, Cope. The specimens proved that some specimens of a 

 species exhibit the horns continuous with the frontal bones, while 

 others of the same had been broken off and anchylosed, with the 

 production of a small burr. 



He added that the facies of the fauna of this horizon throughout 

 the west, including, as it does, Amphicyon, Dicrocerus, Hippotheri- 

 um, Aceratherium, 3Iastodon allied to M. angustidens, etc. etc., 

 more nearly resembles the upper Miocene of Europe than the 

 Pliocene of that continent. 



May 25. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Nineteen members present. 



Charles Sumner Williamson, Dr. John M. M'Grath, J. Warner 

 Edwards, F. Oden Horstman, William Williamson, M. B., Wm. 

 G. Piatt, Miss Mary Jeanes, and Miss Anna T. Jeanes were elected 

 members. 



Dr. John Belisario of Sydney, N. S. W., was elected a corre- 

 spondent. 



June 1. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-one members present. 



A paper entitled " A Critical Review of the North American Sac- 

 comyidae," by Elliott Coues, U. S. A., was offered for publication. 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



On some new fossil Ungulata. Prof. Cope exhibited specimens 

 of the following ungulates, found by himself in New Mexico, while 

 acting as geologist to the United States Survey under Lieut. G. 

 M. Wheeler, U. S. E. 



Pliauchenia humphresiana, Cope, gen. et sp. nov. 



Char. gen. Represented in the collection of the expedition by 

 a left mandibular ramus which includes alveolae of all the teeth, 

 and greater or less portions of all the molars except the last, and 

 the first premolar. In the specimen the dental formula is I. ? C. 

 1; P. m. 3; M. 4; or one premolar less than in Procamelus, and 

 two more than in Auchenia. On this ground the present animal 

 is regarded as representing a new genus of Camelidse, intermedi- 

 ate between the genera named. A portion of the left maxillary 

 bone of a larger species is thought to belong to the same genus, 

 although it presents the number of premolars found in Procame- 

 lus, viz., four. The first and second are, however, very close 

 together, so as to leave about the same relative interval between 

 the first and third as is seen in the P. humphresiana, should the 

 second premolar be omitted. The latter tooth is wanting from 

 the lower jaw of the P. humphresiana. The difference in dental 

 formula between the superior and inferior dental series admitted 

 provisionally in Pliauchenia, finds justification in the formula of 

 the llamas {Auchenia), where the premolars are f. 



Char, specif. The animal now described is of about the size of 

 the Procamelus Occident alis, or somewhat larger than any of the 

 existing llamas. The mandible is stout and deep, contracting 

 rapidly forwards. The canine and first premolar are especially 

 stout, and separated by a very short diastema ; that separating 

 the first and third premolars is also short, being less than that 

 which separates the first and second in Procamelus occidentalis ; 

 could it be supposed that the second premolar is abnormally absent 

 from the P. humphresiana, the diastema would be reduced to a 

 very small compass. Without this supposition the diastemata, 

 both before and behind the first premolar, are shorter than in any 

 of the Proca.meli, as P. robustus, P. angustidens, P. heterodontus, 

 and P. gracilis. The mental foramen issues below the anterior 

 border of the first or caniniform premolar, and the anterior 

 border of the latter marks the posterior margin of the symphyseal 

 suture. The third premolar is nearly as long as, but narrower 

 than the fourth, and the true molars increase rapidly in size pos- 

 teriorly. 



3feasure??ients. m. 



Length of dental series from front of canine to front of 



last molar ... .125 



Length from canine to P. m. No. 1 .... .010 



Long diameter of first premolar 010 



Diastema to third premolar 023 



Length of third premolar ...... .011 



" " first true molar 019 



Width of crown of first true molar .... .011 

 Length of crown of second true molar 025 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



This species is dedicated to General A. A. Humphreys, Chief of 

 the Topographical Engineers, in recognition of the enlightened 

 interest in all departments of scientific investigation, exhibited in 

 his long and able administration. 



Pliauchenia tulcanorum, Cope, sp. nov. 



Represented by the left maxillary bone of a camel of about the 

 size of the existing dromedary, and considerably larger than the 

 species last described. The dental formula is, molars 4 3. The 

 first premolar is only removed from the second by a diastema 

 equal to the long diameter of the latter. The latter has no inner 

 cingulum, while in the third it is so strong as to constitute an 

 internal crescent. The third is much larger, and exhibits the 

 usual single external and single internal crescents. The first 

 molar is stout, long rooted, and furnished with a strong ridge on 

 the outer side, bounding the posterior crescent-bearing column in 

 front. There is a weak ridge on the middle of the anterior column, 

 and only a rudiment on the last premolar. There are no cingula 

 on either the inner or outer bases of the crown. The enamel is 

 nearly smooth. A palato-maxillary foramen issues opposite the 

 anterior border of the base of the third premolar. 



Measurements. M. 



Length from posterior border of first premolar to poste- 

 rior border of first molar 090 



Length of first true molar 030 



Width of basis of crown of first true molar . . . .024 



Length of fourth premolar 019 



Width of base of crown of fourth premolar . . . .018 

 " " palate at first true molar 040 



The typical specimen was found near Pojuaque, a village of the 

 Pueblo Indians. Various bones of camels of the size of the P. 

 vulcanorum were also found, some of which doubtless belong to it. 



HlPPOTHERITJM CALAMAFvITJM, Cope, sp. nOV. 



This three-toed horse is indicated by the oral and palatine 

 parts of the skull with the superior dental series of both sides, 

 together with one mandibular ramus with all its teeth, of an indi- 

 vidual from near San Ildefonso; and also probably by molar 

 teeth of two individuals from the Loup Fork beds of Colorado. 

 The species is allied to the H. paniense, Cope, and differs from 

 the H. occidentale, H. speciosum, and H. gratum of Leidy, in the 

 relative form and size of the interior dentinal column. In the two 

 species first named, this column is subcylindric and equal to or 

 smaller than the posterior internal columnar fold; in the three 

 species last named the anterior column is flattened or oval in 

 section, and often larger than the posterior columnar fold, and 

 submedian in position. 



In the typical or New Mexican specimen the interior column is 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



laro-e, and its centre is anterior to the middle transverse line of the 

 crown. In the present state of attrition, which has left two-thirds 

 of the crowns of the median molars, this column presents an 

 angular projection towards the inner anterior crescent, betraying 

 an approach to the union seen in Protohippus, which is in the 

 fifth molar of the right side of the present horse, actually accom- 

 plished through the medium of a narrow isthmus. The dentinal 

 band, connecting the inner crescents, throws out two, rarely one, 

 fold towards this column. The borders of the lakes are much 

 plicate, the posterior border of the anterior lake having from 

 four to six inflections. The posterior border of the posterior lake 

 exhibits one deep inflection, which is generally bifurcate. 



The first premolar is quite small, and is two-rooted ; the second 

 is a wide tooth, different in form from the elongate corresponding 

 tooth of the H. occidentale, its anterior lobe being but little 

 prominent. The palate is wide and well arched. The mandibular 

 teeth are elongate, but not narrow, and the interior lobes are well 

 developed, especially the median ones. No basal cingula on teeth 

 of either jaw. The last molar is smaller than the three preceding 

 it, and the anterior lobe of the first is quite narrow. * 



The molars of one of the specimens from Colorado are closely 

 similar in all respects, except that the anterior lobe of the second 

 premolar is a little more produced. I also refer here the tooth 

 described as " No. 2," under H. paniense, in Report U. S. Geol. 

 Survey, Terrs. 1873, p. 522-3. As compared with the molars of 

 that species those of H. calamariam differ in the much greater 

 complexity of the enamel folds, those of the H. paniense being the 

 simplest in the genus, even more so than in H. affine. The ante- 

 rior inner column of H. paniense lacks the characteristic inner 

 angle seen in the present horse. 



Measurements. M. 



Length of seven superior molars .... 



" three true molars 



" " second premolar 



Width of crown of second premolar 

 Greatest length of second premolar 



" width " " " ... 



" length " penultimate molar 

 " width " "... 



Width of palate (chord) between middle of third pre 

 molars 



Length crown antepenultimate lower molar 

 Width " " 



.134 

 .062 

 .026 

 .020 

 .022 

 .024 

 .022 

 .022 



.042 

 .021 

 .012 



The typical specimen belongs to an adult animal, and was 

 taken from the matrix by myself without admixture of others. 

 Apiielops jemezanus, Cope, sp. nov. 



That a second species of rhinoceros, even larger than the 

 other species of Aphelops, formerly existed in the region of New 

 Mexico, is demonstrated by a right mandibular ramus obtained 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



by Dr. H. C. Yarrow, from near the town of Santa Clara, on the 

 west side of the Rio Grande. The specimen in its present con- 

 dition includes the condyle, angle, and ramus as far as the last 

 premolar, and supports the three true molars. The latter are 

 worn, indicating the full age of the animal. They still retain the 

 enamel surface of the sinus between the posterior and median 

 transverse crests, and the lower end of the sharp inner margin of 

 the anterior transverse crest. 



While the ramus exhibits the compressed form seen in A. mega- 

 lodus and A. meridianus, it differs from these and the A. crassus 

 in many striking respects. Thus the inferior margin near the 

 angle does not exhibit the protuberance and following contradic- 

 tion of the inner side seen in the first two species. In another 

 feature it differs from all the other species, i. e., in the form of the 

 ascending ramus. This rises very gradually from the basis of 

 the last molar, leaving a subhorizontal edentulous space behind 

 the latter as long as the second true molar. Its anterior face, 

 instead of being flat and bounded by strong, lateral, angular 

 ridges, as is the case in A. crassus and the two other species, is 

 rather narrowly convex. Instead of the usual ridge of the outer 

 side, the anterior border of the area of insertion of the masseter 

 muscle is marked by a permanent curved protuberant margin, 

 which is wanting in the three other species, the surface in them 

 being plane. Behind the condyle is seen the tuberosity character- 

 istic of the Rhinoceridae. The internal pterygoid fossa is well 

 marked. Rugosities for insertion on the lower border of the 

 angle are strong. 



The relations of the dentition of this species are also peculiar. 

 The last molar is nearly half as large again as that of specimens 

 of A. megalodus, and A. meridianus of similar dimensions of 

 ramus, and the teeth diminish in length anteriorly more rapidly 

 than in width. Thus, while the first true molar is as long as in 

 the two species named, the width is between one-half and one- 

 third greater. There are no external basal cingula. 



Measurements. M. 



Length of ramus from fourth premolar (behind) to mid- 

 dle of masseteric fossa 240 



Length of series of true molars 148 



" " first true molar 044 



Width " " " " 033 



Length " third " " 058 



Width " " " " 035 



Diameter of ramus at first molar 080 



Depth of ramus of third " 092 



The Phylogeny of the Camels Prof. Cope made the following 

 remarks on the extinct genera of camels : 



The line of descent of the horses has been already largely traced 

 by several paleontologists ; another series may now be regarded as 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



partially completed, viz., that of the camels. I have already indi- 

 cated the antecedent relation in which the miocene genus Poebro- 

 therium stands to the existing camels in the structure of the limbs 

 and teeth, as well as the intermediate position occupied by Pro- 

 camelus in the existence of the incisor teeth. It now remains to 

 point out the relations determined by the structure of the feet in 

 Procamelus and the dentition in Pliauchenia, a new genus dis- 

 covered in the Loup Fork beds of New Mexico. Commencing with 

 the earliest genus, Poebrotherium, we have the molar teeth 4 3, 

 as in the primitive mammalia generally. There are but two elon- 

 gated metacarpals, which are not united into a cannon bone, the 

 lateral ones being rudimental, while the carpals are of the number 

 characteristic of the mammalia of all the orders with numerous 

 toes, namely, seven. In Procamelus of the succeeding formation, 

 the molar formula continues to be 4 3, but the posterior teeth 

 are more prismatic in form than in the miocene genus. The incisor 

 teeth are present, thus displaying the primitive character of the 

 class generally ; though as these teetli are early shed, an approxi- 

 mation to the edentulous condition of existing ruminants in this 

 part of the mouth is apparent. In the feet, the approximation 

 to the existing Camelidse is greater than in the dentition. Thus 

 the lateral rudimental metacarpals of Poebrotherium have disap- 

 peared, and with them the trapezoides of the carpus. The magnum 

 remains distinct, while the middle metacarpals are united at full 

 age into a cannon bone. In the contemporary genus Pliauchenia, 

 a further modification of dentition is observed. As above stated, 

 the molars of Procamelus number f ; in Camelus they number 

 3 f ; in Pliauchenia we have the intermediate condition ? | . 

 The end of the series is seen in Anchenia, where the formula is f . 

 It has been observed as a remarkable fact, that North America 

 should present us with the most complete history of the succes- 

 sion of genera which resulted in the horse, and yet should have 

 received this animal by importation from Europe. Nevertheless 

 the more prominent genera of this series have been obtained in the 

 European formations; especially Anchitherium and Hippotherium. 

 But as regards the Camelidse, the genera above described are ex- 

 clusively North American ; no well-determined form of this group 

 having been found in any formation of the Paloearctic region up 

 to the present time. Until such are discovered, there will be much 

 ground for supposing that the camels of the old world were de- 

 rived from American ancestors ; while the presence of the llamas 

 in the existing South American fauna, indicates the absence there 

 of the conditions which caused their extermination from North 

 America. 



Living Organisms in the Pulp Cavity of Teeth Mr. C. N. 



Peirce remarked that, in making some investigations on the 

 organisms found within the oral cavity, he noticed what might be 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



deemed of some importance to those interested in studying the 

 " Beginnings of Life." It is not an infrequent occurrence for the 

 pulp, or nerve and accompanying vessels, within the tooth to 

 become devitalized without any loss of the hard tissues from dental 

 caries or otherwise. The loss of vitality and necessary disinte- 

 gration of this peculiarly vascular tissue, results invariable in the 

 formation of pus and gas. 



Upon opening into several such cavities they were, as is usual, 

 found to be extremely offensive from this degenerated matter. 

 On examining this putrid material with the microscope, living 

 organisms, resembling what have been described and figured as 

 Bacteria and Vibrios, were observed in large numbers. Their 

 presence in these cavities, secluded as they were from any contact 

 with the atmospheric air or secretions of the mouth, must be 

 accounted for in one of two ways, viz.: The embryonic germs of 

 these organisms must be universally disseminated, not only 

 throughout this vascular tissue, but also the various textures of 

 the body, by means of the circulating fluid, there to develop and 

 manifest themselves whenever these higher tissues are on the eve 

 of death and degeneration or else it must be that when the 

 vitality of this vascular tissue is on the wane, its constituent 

 particles are capable of individualizing themselves and of growing 

 into the low organisms in question. 



June 8. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-five members present. 



On Samarskite. Joseph Willcox called attention to a mineral 

 specimen (samarskite) presented by him, which was found at a 

 locality discovered by him recently among the mountains in 

 Mitchel Co., North Carolina. Excepting in North Carolina, this 

 rare mineral is only found in the Ural Mountains in Asia. Ac- 

 cording to Dana's Mineralogy, the largest specimens found at the 

 latter locality are only as large as hazel-nuts ; but Mr. Willcox 

 said he obtained a specimen in North Carolina that weighs more 

 than twenty pounds. It was associated with decomposed feldspar. 



The Geology of New Mexico. Prof. Cope stated that the ground 

 covered by the geological investigation conducted mainly in New 

 Mexico during 1874 in connection with the Wheeler U. S. topo- 

 graphical and geological survey, embraces the eastern slope of the 

 Rocky Mountains from Pueblo to the Sangre de Christo Pass ; 

 both sides of the Rio Grande Valley from that point to Algodones, 

 N. M. ; the western or Sierra Madre range, and the country for 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



fort}' miles to the westward of it, from the latitude of Sierra 

 Amarilla as far south as the road from Santa Fe to Fort Wingate. 



Little of novelty has been added from the first two named re- 

 gions, as they have been previously traversed by competent geol- 

 ogists ; but the last named has remained up to the present time 

 almost unknown. The analysis of the structure of the Sierra 

 Mad re range is believed to indicate that its elevation took place 

 near the close of the period known as Cretaceous No. 4, and that 

 the elevating force was in New Mexico, more powerful at its south- 

 ern extremity than along the middle portions of its line. Another 

 important discovery is the lacustrine character of the triassic beds 

 which form a part of the axis of the range ; indicating the exist- 

 ence of extensive areas of dry land at that period, of which no 

 portion is remaining in the region examined by me, but which may 

 be supposed to be represented by the palaeozoic beds further south 

 and west. A third important point is the determination that the 

 plateau drained by the eastern tributaries of the San Juan River 

 is composed of the sediment of an extensive lake of Eocene age, 

 which was probably at one time of great extent, but whose 

 deposits have been greatly reduced in extent through erosion. 

 The boundaries of this lake to the east and south were determined. 



It is believed that additional light has been thrown on the ques- 

 tion of the age of the Galisteo sandstone ; and that its paleontology 

 has decided definitely that of the Santa Fe marls. The first fossils 

 discovered in the " trias" of the Rocky Mountains, have enabled 

 me to reach more definite conclusions as to its position in the scale 

 of periods. 



The remains of vertebrata obtained from the latter formation 

 are those of fishes and reptiles. The former are rhomboganoid 

 scales of small species which are numerous in the coprolitesof the 

 reptiles ; the latter represent the three orders of Crocodiles, Dino- 

 sauma, and apparently of Sauropterygia. The dinosaurian order 

 is represented by a part of the crown of a tooth of a species of 

 huge size, of the general character of Laelaps. Both faces are 

 convex, the one more so than the other, and the long axis of the 

 crown is curved towards the less convex side. Both cutting edges 

 are sharply and closely crenate denticulate as in Laelaps, Aubly- 

 sodon, etc. ; otherwise the enamel is perfectly smooth. There was 

 not enough of this animal discovered to enable me to identify it. 

 The suspected sauropterygian species is represented by a single 

 vertebra with the centrum slightly depressed, circular section, 

 and about as long as wide. The neurapophysis appears to have 

 been united by suture, although this point is not so clear as de- 

 sirable, and the bases of thediapophysis are very stout, extending 

 the entire length of the upper half of the lateral surface of the 

 centrum. Of the articular faces, one is much more concave than 

 the other. Length of centrum, m. .05 ; width, .057 ; depth, .055. 

 The crocodilian remains consist of a portion of a jawbone with 

 alveoli for four teeth, of a broken vertebra, and a number of dermal- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 2fi5 



scuta and fragments of other bones. At another locality not far 

 distant, were found numerous remains of saurian bones, embracing 

 dermal and cranial pieces, coprolites, a fragmentary tooth, etc., 

 which may have some affinity to these. The species indicated by 

 the former may be named and described as follows : 



Typothokax coccinarum, Cope, genus et species nova. 



Character genericas. The fragment of jaw belonging to this 

 genus is probably maxillary in position, for the following reasons: 

 the interior face of the bone is sutural, and for the most part solid. 

 This would refer it to the position of the symph} r seal portion of 

 the dentary bone of a gavial-like form, but for other considerations. 

 Supposing the piece to be dentary, and the suture therefore verti- 

 cal, the incongruity follows that the alveolar face becomes very 

 steep, so much so as to prevent the interlocking of the teeth, 

 which become lateral in position. If, however, the jaw fragment 

 be reversed in position, and the alveolar face placed in a horizon- 

 tal position, the suture of the inner side forms a sharp angle with 

 the vertical plane, as it should on the supposition of its being the 

 maxillary bone. The wedged-shaped section necessary to fill the 

 space between it and the median plane, will then be that of the pro- 

 longed posterior spine of the premaxillary bone. The solidity of 

 this portion of the muzzle is inconsistent with the gavial genera of 

 the Jura and later times, but not with the structure of the triassic 

 Belodons. The posterior part of the inner face is, however, strongly 

 excavated, and the sutural margin exhibits an outward deflection, 

 which is either the boundary of the nostril, or the suture for the 

 apex of the prefrontal or nasal bone. In either case the nasal 

 cavity and the nostril are posterior in position in conformity with 

 the structure of the " thecodont" crocodilfa. The alveoli are large 

 and arranged in a curved line, one of them somewhat exterior in 

 position and isolated by a short diastema like a canine. Surface 

 of the bone pitted. The dermal scuta found close to the jaw frag- 

 ment have a flat upper surface marked with shallow pits rather 

 closely placed, having resemblance to an obsolete Trionyx sculp- 

 ture. Near one of the margins of the bone, the pits run out in 

 shallow grooves. A portion of a vertebral centrum found with 

 the jaw exhibits one articular face ; this is shallow, concave, of the 

 type of the Amphicoelian division of Grocodilia. The body of the 

 centrum is much compressed. 



The other remains include a portion of a dermal bone like those 

 described, and the crown of a tooth among other fragments. 

 This crown, which has lost most of its enamel, is triangular in 

 section, and somewhat curved in its long axis. A convex face is 

 directed forwards and outward (on the supposition that the tooth 

 is superior), and a nearly plane face posteriorly. The inner face 

 is worn flat by the attrition of an opposing tooth. The pulp- 

 cavity is minute or wanting. 

 18 




2G6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Char, specif. The pitting of the maxillary bone is not linear, 

 and is sometimes round ; it is rather remote. The outside of the 

 bone is steep, indicating that the muzzle is not depressed. Its 

 face is swollen opposite the supposed canine tooth. The alveolae 

 are round, and longitudinally oval. The alveolar face is decurved 

 near the end of the muzzle. The superficial layer of the cranial 

 and dermal bones is dense and fine grained. The second series 

 of specimens, whose reference is by no means certain, but which 

 contains a dermal bone like that of the type, includes fragments 

 apparently of the upper surface of the cranium. This is marked 

 with irregular tuberosities and excavations resembling that seen 

 in the Belodonts of the Carolinian and Wiirtembergian Trias. A 

 section of a narrow dermal bone displays an elevated obtuse me- 

 dian keel, the only bone which displays this form in the collection, 

 the usual form being either flat or slightly concave. Accompany- 

 ing the same, are numerous coprolites, which are apparently too 

 small' for an animal of the dimensions of the type specimen. They 

 are slender, and display rectal folds, which do not exhibit a con- 

 tinuous spiral. They are found, wherever fractured, to be filled 

 with the rhomboganoid scales of some small fish. 



Measurements. M. 



Length of fragment of maxillary 095 



Depth (oblique) at ? nostril 050 



Depth (vertical) " 045 



Width (median) " 025 



Width at front alveolus 035 



Diameter canine alveolus 015 



Diameter of another alveolus 011 



Diameter centrum (? caudal) vertebra j JJJgJJJ] 6 ' "022 



Thickness of dermal shield 008 



Measurement across four fossa? of do 020 



Diameter of crown of tooth No. 2 018 



Length of coprolite of No. 2 045 



Diameter " 011 



The flat and regularly pitted dermal bones distinguish this genus 

 from Belodon. The species was of large size, the cranial fragments 

 equalling corresponding portions of the Gangetic gavial. 



The evidence derived from the Typothorax coccinarum is favor- 

 able to the identification of this horizon with that of the Trias, 

 although it cannot of course be regarded as conclusive, until more 

 perfect specimens are obtained. 



Besides the overlying sandstone bed, the red marls are traversed 

 below it by a conglomerate, which is in some places of a bluish 

 tint. At some points it weathers to gravel, and near this horizon 

 the vertebrate remains occur. 



In review I give the following section of the Eocene rocks* of 

 the region west of the Sierra Madre range : 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 267 



Red and gray marls ( Wahsatch ) . . . . 1500 



Sandstone ( Group J 1000 



Green and black marls Puerco group .... 500 



3000 



The following is an approximate estimate of the mesozoic beds 

 in the same region; as they were not accurately measured,. the 

 numbers will have to undergo revision ; their relative thickness is 

 nearly as given : 



Uncertain (concealed in the sage plain) . . . . 500 



Cretaceous No. 4 1500 



Cretaceous No. 3 400 



Cretaceous No. 2 1500 



Cretaceous No. 1 500 



Jurassic 600 



" Trias" (bottom not seen) 1000 



Total 6000 



The mesozoic beds of this section (excepting some of the higher 

 members of the cretaceous) have been examined over extensive 

 areas to the west and south, by Messrs. Marcou and Newberry, 

 whose valuable reports accompany those of Lieutenants Whipple 

 and Ives, on the routes surveyed by them through Arizona and 

 New Mexico. The horizon here termed, after Hayden, "Triassic," 

 has been referred to this formation by Marcou also, who had the 

 opportunity of examining it in Texas and the Indian Territory. 

 So far as the latter region is concerned, I can confirm the identifica- 

 tion, having examined bones from the red beds of that country, 

 which appear to be those of Belodonts. Dr. Newberry terms it, 

 in Arizona, the " salt group," or " saliferous sandstones," referring 

 to it as probably including both Triassic and Permian strata. 



The formations here called Jurassic are partially included by 

 Marcou in his triassic series ; and are termed the " variegated 

 marls" by Dr. Newberry, who is inclined to refer them to the 

 Jurassic. 



Dr. LeConte inquired, at what line of latitude the observations 

 of Mr. Cope had been made. Mr. Cope replied that the section 

 was made at about the 36th degree. 



Dr. LeConte then remarked that the observations of Mr. Cope, 

 with a single exception of the locality of fossils mentioned, which 

 was new, confirmed entirely the observations made by himself in 

 1867 ; the arrangement of the older beds further south was, how- 

 ever, less simple than that indicated on the blackboard by Mr. 

 Cope. Underneath the red triassic beds mentioned by Mr. Cope 

 was a very thick bed of hard, white sandstone of Permian age, 

 which bore a deceptive resemblance to Cretaceous No. 1, but which 

 along the Pecos River contained an abundance of Calamites, and 

 other characteristic plants. Below this white sandstone was a 




208 proceedings of the academy of 



lar^e mass of deep-red sandrock containing fossil shells badly 

 preserved and lying upon the carboniferous limestone, which had 

 been seen by Mr. Cope. 



These facts all went to establish the view expressed by Dr. 

 LeConte in his report in 1867, viz. : the greater complication of 

 the older formations to the soutli and west, of the intercontinen- 

 tal gulf which in previous geological periods divided the Chippe- 

 wyan from the Appalachian subcontinent. 



Corresponding to this, the older rocks became more simple 

 towards the north, while the subdivisions of the newer formations 

 were great^- increased in number, as the gulf became gradually 

 shallower and was converted finally into a fresh-water lacustrine 

 region. 



June 15. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-two members present. 



Fruiting of double Peaches. Mr. Meehan exhibited some 

 branches of peach, in which the young fruit were in twos and 

 threes from one flower. They were from the Chinese double- 

 flowering kind. He remarked that, as is well known, plants with 

 double flowers were rarely fertile. Either the stamens were 

 wholly changed to petals, or the less vital conditions which always 

 accompanied this floral state, were unequal to the task of pro- 

 ducing perfect pistils. Vitality, however, Avas more or less affected 

 by external conditions, independently of the mere structure of 

 organs, and this was well illustrated by the remarkable fertility of 

 the peach this season. Usually large numbers of fruit fell without 

 " setting," as it is technically called by orchardists, not because 

 there was any defect in the organs of reproduction, but from lack 

 of vital force to accomplish so much. This season many more 

 had continued, than had been known for many } r ears, and the 

 prospect was for an immense crop of fruit. This abounding 

 vitality had evidently extended to the double peaches, and had 

 influenced the development of the female organs to an unusual 

 extent. 



The facts had an interest in botanical classification. The late 

 Professor Lindley had removed the cherry, plum, peach and 

 allies, from Rosacea?, chiefly because they had but a single, free 

 carpel, and had grouped them as Drupacese. 



The production of two and three carpels in this case showed 

 the true relation, and might be of use to those interested in 

 '' theories of descent." 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



Insectivorous Sarracenias. Mr. Thomas Meehan presented 

 some specimens of Sarracenia variolaris, sent by Dr. Mellichamp, 

 of South Carolina, through Col. J. D. Kurtz, illustrating obser- 

 vations on the supposed insectivorous character of this plant, 

 made by him, and read by Professor Asa Gray at the Hartford 

 meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of 

 Science. Mr. M. said that the fact that insects were caught and 

 drowned in the liquid secreted in these pitchers and were secured 

 on other parts of the so-called fly-catching plants, had long ago 

 been discovered. The novelty in the modern phase of the discus- 

 sion was that these plants had assumed or developed these trap- 

 like organs, in obedience to a sort of innate instinct, for the ex- 

 press purpose of catching insects and applying them to the 

 nutrition of the plant. In the case of these Sarracenias, Dr. 

 Mellichamp had discovered that a honeyed secretion exuded from 

 the rim of the pitcher and had formed a little stream down the 

 outside, for the purpose, as was assumed, of enticing insects on 

 to their destruction. This was shown on the specimens presented, 

 as were the remains of numerous insects in some of them. Mr. 

 M. remarked that this intentional adoption of means to an end 

 had received the assent of many leading men, but that good ob- 

 jections had been made by some, and the point he regarded as by 

 no means settled. That the insects caught were rapidly decom- 

 posed, was undoubted, but it was not so clear that the plant 

 derived any benefit from the decomposition. 



Prof. Cope stated that a report furnished to the Academy of 

 remarks made at its last meeting contained the following language : 

 " Dr. Le Conte then remarked that the observations of Mr. Cope, 

 with a single exception of the locality of fossils mentioned, which 

 was new, confirmed entirely the observations made by himself in 

 186Y,"etc. This statement implies that the geological description 

 of the region given by him (Prof. Cope) was not new, and the infe- 

 rence follows the language that Dr. Le Conte had previously deter- 

 mined the facts in the case. Prof. Cope stated, in order to correct 

 these inferences, that no published account of the geology of that 

 large portion of New Mexico was in existence prior to the appear- 

 ance of his own, and that Dr. Le Conte's observations were made 

 on a line whose nearest point of approach to the region described 

 Iry him is about eighty miles distant, and on the opposite side of 

 the valley of the Rio Grande. He thought that this brief state- 

 ment of the facts would correct any misapprehension on the part 

 of persons not familiar with the history of the western geological 

 surveys. 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



June 22. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twent} r -three members present. 



The Relation of Light to Stomata. Mr. Thomas Meehan exhi- 

 bited a leaf taken from a small tree of Acer pseudo-platanus the 

 common sycamore maple which had assumed an inverted posi- 

 tion. The tree was three years old from seed, and all the leaves 

 were of that character. The young leaves first appeared in their 

 normal condition, but as the petiole lengthened, the leaf blade 

 bent under, so that the under surface was exposed to the full sun- 

 light, and under the petiole above. He also exhibited a young 

 oak from an acorn sown in the spring, and which he believed to be 

 Quercus Catesbeei, and in which all the leaves were vertical, and 

 not with their surfaces on a plane witli the horizon, as is the case 

 with all other seedling oaks and American trees. He said it was 

 possible this position of the leaves was not continued with the 

 increased age of the tree, or it would have been observed and 

 placed on record. Of several hundred young plants all had the 

 same character. 



The facts were simple in themselves, but had great interest to 

 the student in vegetable physiology. The stomata were usually 

 on the under side of the leaf, and believed to be there of a neces- 

 sity. Our leading botanical text book taught that stomata were 

 breathing pores, and could not carry on their essential operations 

 when exposed to direct sunlight; and the same high authority had 

 suggested that if leaves of this character could be inverted, and 

 forced to remain in this condition, the plant would inevitably die. 

 The maple did not die, but had been during all its existence as 

 health}- as others of the same species growing near it. A large 

 number of the proteaceous and nryrtaceous plants of South Africa 

 and Australia, and of which the now famous Eucalyptus globulus 

 is a familiar example, had their leaves vertical, as in this oak. 

 This had been accounted for by the statement that these leaves 

 had stomata on both surfaces of the leaf, and the effort of these 

 stomata to face the earth had of course resulted in an even bal- 

 ance of power, in which neither side had any advantage. The 

 stomata on each side of the leaf had to face the horizon. Suppos- 

 ing this might account for the position of these oak leaves, they, 

 as well as the maple, had been examined microscopically by Dr. 

 Hunt, of the Academy, and found to have stomata only on one 

 the normal side. He thought it safe to conclude from these facts, 

 that the accepted theories of the relation of stomata to light re- 

 quired some modification. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



June 29. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Sixteen members present. 



The resignation of William M. Wilson as a member was read 

 and accepted. 



On an Extinct Vulturine Bird. Prof. Cope exhibited the fossil- 

 ized skeleton of a vulturine bird of prey from the marls of the 

 Loup Fork Epoch, near Santa Fe, which had been described as 

 Cathartes umbrosus, Cope. The beak had been broken off at the 

 base, and the fractured surface did not display the septum char- 

 acteristic of the true vultures. On removing the matrix from the 

 nostrils Prof. Cope had discovered that the osseous septum is 

 present but short, hence the species must be referred to the vul- 

 turine division of the Falconidae, and not to the Cathartidee, and 

 the species called Vultur umbrosus ; it was about as large as the 

 " king vulture" {Cathartes papa) of Mexico. The true vultures 

 do not exist at present in the western hemisphere, and the present 

 determination adds one more old world type to the extinct fauna 

 of the United States. The genus Vultur is now associated in 

 Africa and India with Rhinoceros, camels, horses, etc. as in the 

 period of the late tertiary in New Mexico. 



Isaac R. Hinckley was elected a member. Prof. Luigi Bombecci 

 Porta, of Bologna, and Prof. Paolo Mantovanni, of Rome, were 

 elected correspondents. 



The committee to which it had been referred recommended the 

 following paper to be published : 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



A CRITICAL REVIEW OF THE NORTH AMERICAN SACCOMYID.E. 

 BY DR. ELLIOTT COUES, U. S. A. 



The small group of Rodents to be here treated consists of the 

 genera Saccomys, Heteromys, Dipodomys, Cricetodipus, and 

 Perognathus. 1 The animals are confined to North and Middle 

 America and the West Indies. They are immediately recognized 

 by the presence of ample cheek pouches, opening exteriorly and 

 lined with fur, in connection with their general murine aspect 

 for the Geomidse (Geomys and Thomomys), the only other rodents 

 which have the same kind of cheek pouches, have an arvicoline 

 contour, and are altogether different in external appearance. 



This group appears to have been first put together at any 

 rate it was first satisfactorily defined in 1857, by Professor 

 Baird, Avho made it a subfamily {Saccomyinae) of Geomyid.se. 

 This sagacious naturalist seems to have been the first to perceive 

 and act upon the really very close affinities subsisting between 

 the Saccomyidse and Geomyidse, which had previously been widely 

 separated in the system ; but, in recognizing these relationships, 

 he was led to the length of uniting the two groups as one family. 

 As I have already shown, 2 the curiously different shape of the 

 Geomyidse and Saccomyidse, which is of course only a matter of 

 secondary consequence, is co-ordinated with structural characters 

 of prime importance, fully warranting the erection of the Sacco- 

 myinse into a family Saccomyidse, distinct from, though unques- 

 tionably standing next to, the Geomyidse. 



We may consider that this fact was effectually, though only inci- 

 dentally, exhibited in 1808, by Dr. J. E. Gray, in his "Synopsis of 

 the Species of Saccomyidai, or Pouched Mice, in the Collection of 

 the British Museum." (P. Z. S. 1868, pp. 199-206.) Though 

 using a terminology indicative of a subfamily (" Saccomyinae"), 

 this author speaks of " the family" of Pouched Mice. 



In his "Arrangement of the Families of Mammals," 1812, Dr. 

 Gill first formall}' catalogues a family Saccomyidse, equivalent 



1 Abromys, Gray, P. Z. S. 1868, 202, is not included, because the diag- 

 nosis is insufficient for its recognition. It is probably Perognathus. 



2 Bulletin U. S. Geol. and Geogr. Survey of the Territories (Hayden's), 

 second series, No. 1, 1875, pp. . 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



to the Saccomyinse of Baird, 1857, and of Gray, 18G8, which is 

 placed next to the Geomyidse, with which it constitutes one of 

 this author's numerous taxonomic refinements, namely, a "super- 

 family" Saccomyoidea. These groups, however, are merely named, 

 no characters being furnished for their recognition. Use of the 

 term " Saccomyoidea" seems to me to be one way of expressing 

 the undoubted fact that the Saccomyidse and Geomyidse are more 

 nearly related to each other than either of them is to the Muridse 

 or Castor'idse, between which they are interposed in Dr. Gill's 

 system ; through the practical utility of such " super" groups 

 would be questioned by some naturalists. 



Thus determining a family Saccomyidse (characters of which 

 will presently be given), we may, before proceeding further, note 

 what disposition has been made of its component genera. Dr. 

 LeConte, in 1853, and Prof. Baird, both treated only of North 

 American forms, recognizing simply two genera, Dipodomys and 

 Perognathus (-j- subg. Cricetodipus). Dr. Gill made no subdi- 

 vision of the family. Dr. Gray went into this matter by dividing 

 his Saccomyinse (== Saccomyidse) into two groups of no assigned 

 value, namely, Dipodomyina, with Dipodomys alone, and Hetero- 

 myina, to include all the other genera. This division is based 

 primarily upon the state of the molars, whether rootless (Dipo- 

 domys) or rooted. The Heteromyina of this author are further 

 divided into those with sulcate superior incisors (Perognathus, 

 " Abromys," and Cricetodipus) and those in which the upper 

 cutting teeth are smooth (Heteromys and Saccomys). 



I am insufficiently acquainted with Heteromys and Saccomys 

 to say how nearly they approach, or how far they recede from, the 

 Perognathi with which I am familiar ; nor have I at present the 

 material to inform myself. Of Saccomys I do not find that any 

 one has precise knowledge at present ; the very habitat of the 

 animal is uncertain. To the orginal Heteromys anomalus (Mus 

 anomalus, Thomps., Linn. Trans. XI. 151, pi. 10 fide Gray) Dr. 

 Gray added several others in 1868, all from Middle America. As 

 this author draws his characters, Avith the exception of those of 

 the front teeth, entirely from some trivial superficialities which 

 may be observed upon looking at stuffed skins, I am unable to 

 gain from his remarks any satisfactory opinion respecting the 

 degree of relationship subsisting between Perognathus and Crice- 

 todipus on the one hand, and Heteromys and Saccomys on the 




274 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



other. My impression is, however, that characters of more than 

 generic value will be found to distinguish them. 



However the case may stand respecting Heteromys and Saccomys, 

 concerning which precise information is greatly to be desired, it 

 is demonstrable that the genus Dipodomys stands quite isolated 

 from Perognathus and Cricetodipus by its extraordinary cranial 

 peculiarities. This circumstance throws the North American 

 o-enera into two distinct subfamilies, very easy to characterize. 



In these preliminary remarks I wish, furthermore, to insist upon 

 the full generic distinctions between Perognathus and Criceto- 

 dipus. The latter was first satisfactorily characterized as a sub- 

 genus by Prof. Baird, upon certain obvious and eligible external 

 characters alone. But examination of the skull, which Prof. 

 Baird, it seems, did not make, has satisfied me that the cranial 

 characters are fully up to the current generic mark. Cricetodijnis, 

 in fact, makes a decided step away from Perognathus in the 

 direction of Dipodomys, though still falling far short of the exag- 

 gerated peculiarities of the latter. 



Family SACCOMYID^E (Baird). 



= Saccomyinm, Baird, Maram. N. A. 1857, p. 404. (Subfamily.) 



= Saccomyince, Gray, P. Z. S. 1868, 199. (Family.) 



= SaccomyidcB, Gill, Arrang. Fam. Mamni. 1872, p. 21, No. 100. 



Chars. 1 Skull light, thin, and papery, with few if any decided 

 angles or ridges; rostrum elongate, attenuate, and tapering ; nasals 

 projected beyond incisors. Inter-mastoid width not less than 

 the inter-zygomatic, sometimes much greater. Inter-orbital space 

 much wider than the rostrum. Occipital region formed largely or 

 mostly of the mastoids. Palatal surface nearly flat and horizon- 

 tal. No anteorbital foramen in a usual site, but a large, rounded 

 perforation of the side of the maxillary, instead. Zygomata 

 slender, depressed in position, almost or quite abutting behind 

 against the tympanic ; malar thread-like. A delicate scroll-like 

 lachrymal, easily detached. Frontal broadly trapezoidal. Parietal 

 broad, triangular or pentagonal. A large interparietal, embraced 



1 The characters are drawn from Perognathus, Cricetodipus, and Dipo- 

 domys; but there is every reason to believe that no essential modification 

 of the phrase is required to embrace Saccomys and Heteromys as well. 

 Special reference is had to antithesis with Qeomyida. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



betwixt forks of the occipital. Squamosal almost entirely re- 

 stricted to the orbit. Tympanic more or less inflated. Mastoid 

 enormously enlarged and bullous, mounting to the top of the 

 skull, and also forming much or most of the occipital surface, 

 the occipital being correspondingly reduced, and scarcely or not 

 forming part of the general occipital surface. Petrosals mode- 

 rate^ inflated, their apices closely approximated or even in mutual 

 contact. Coronoid process of mandible slender, sloping, prickle- 

 like, scarcely or not attaining top of condyle ; mandible small and 

 weak in comparison with rest of skull. Incisors variable (the 

 upper compressed and sulcate in North American genera, said to be 

 broad and smooth in Saccomys and Heteromys). Molars |:|, rooted 

 or rootless. General form murine ; body slender and graceful ; 

 ears and eyes well developed. Hind limbs somewhat or decidedly 

 saltatorial. Tail as long as the body (more or less). Fore claws 

 moderate, not obviously fossorial. External cheek pouches ample, 

 not connected with the mouth, furry inside, furnished with a spe- 

 cial muscle (these pouches as in Geomyidee, but no other rodents). 

 Pelege generally coarse and harsh, said to be sometimes " spiny," 

 alwa3's without under fur. The species very active and quick in 

 their movements, like mice. 



The foregoing characters amply suffice for the determination of 

 this family, though others might be adduced. The skull is very 

 peculiar ; its main features result from the exaggerated state of 

 the mastoids, which produce great width behind, roof much of 

 the cerebral cavity, pinch the occipital, and push the squamosal 

 into the orbit. The next most prominent features are the slight 

 thread-like malar, attenuated rostrum, and flat palate. The curious 

 position of the anteorbital foramen is shared by the Geomyidse. 

 To bring the comparative characters of Saccomyidse and Geomyi- 

 dse into strong relief, the following may be adduced : 



GEOMYIDSE. SACCOMYIDSE. 



(Geomys and Tlwmomys.) (Perognathtis, Cricetodipus, 



Dipodomys. ) 



Skull massive, angular, in general Skull delicate, with rounded-off 



of an arvicoline type. angles and slight ridges, if any. 



Interorhital constriction narrower Interorbital space much broader 



than rostrum. than rostrum. 



Interzygomatic width the greatest Intermastoid width the greatest 



diameter of the skull. diameter of the skull. 




276 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



GEOMYID^E. 



(Geomys and Thomomys.) 



Palate strongly sloping downward 

 far below level of zygomata. 



Nasals not produced beyond inci- 

 sors ; rostrum broad, blunt, parallel- 

 sided. 



Zygomata strong, flaring, with 

 stout, short malar, having ordinary 

 connections. 



Frontal compressed. 



Parietals compressed, irregularly 

 linear, remote from orbits. 



Squamosals roofing most of cere- 

 bral cavity, from roof of which mas- 

 toids are excluded. 



Tympanies contracted, tubular. 



Petrosals widely discrete. 



Occipital broad, forming most of 

 occipital plane, but not mounting on 

 top of skull. 



Molars rootless. 



Large erect falcate coronoid over- 

 topping condyle. 



Lower jaw large and strong. 



General form heavy, squat, clumsy 

 arvicoline. 



Fore limbs highly fossorial. 



Eyes and cars minute. 



Tail much shorter than body. 



Pelage usually soft, lustrous, mole- 

 like. 



Habits completely subterranean. 



SACCOMYIDiE. 



(Perognqthus, Cricetodipus, 

 Dipodomys.) 



Palate nearly horizontal, little if 

 any below the level of zygomata. 



Nasals produced beyond incisors ; 

 rostrum compressed, tapering, acute. 



Zygomata slender, parallel, with 

 long thread-like malar, almost or 

 actually abutting against tympanic. 



Frontal very broad. 



Parietals broad, triangular or pent- 

 angular, coming to edge of orbits. 



Squamosals mostly or wholly re- 

 stricted to the orbits ; mastoids roof- 

 ing much or most of cerebral cavity. 



Tympanies more or less inflated, 

 vestibular. 



Petrosals approximating or in act- 

 ual contact at their apices. 



Occipital contracted, scarcely or 

 not entering occipital plane, but 

 mounting top of skull, to there em- 

 brace interparietal between its forks. 



Molars rooted (except in Dipodo- 

 mys). 



Small, sloping, prickle-like cor- 

 onoid below condyle. 



Lower jaw small and weak. 



General form light, lithe, and grace- 

 ful murine. 



Hind limbs more or less saltatorial. 



Eyes and ears large. 



Tail nearly as long as or longer 

 than body. 



Pelage usually coarse and hispid. 



Habits exposed. 



We may next illustrate the points of resemblance between Sac- 

 comyidx and Geomyidx as distinguished from other rodents, 

 thereby showing the characters of the " superfamily" Saccomyoi- 

 dea as named, but not defined, by Gill the former family Sac- 

 comyidee of Baird. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 277 



Saccomyid^e and Geomyid^b. Mastoid bone inordinately de- 

 veloped, occnp3'ing much of the occipital or superior surface of 

 the skull, or both. Occipital correspondingly reduced. No post- 

 orbital processes ; no anteorbital foramen as such, in its stead a 

 perforation in the side of the maxillary far forward and low down. 

 Z} T gomatic process of maxillary an expanded perforate plate. 

 Molars f . Root of under incisor more or less protuberant pos- 

 teriorly. Descending process of mandible an obliquely twisted 

 plate, projecting outward and upward. Large external fur-lined 

 cheek pouches with special muscle ; upper lip densely hairy, not 

 visibly cleft ; feet pentadactyle ; fore claws longer than hinder 

 ones. Pelage without under fur. 



It will be observed that the differences outweigh the resem- 

 blances, notwithstanding the higher taxonomic value of some of 

 the latter. The peculiar state of the temporal bone, the position 

 of the anteorbital foramen, the shape of the jaw, and the presence 

 of the pouches are the main common characters. In contrasting 

 the two families, the very peculiar genus Dipodomys offers the 

 strongest points of difference ; but when we come to consider 

 Perognathus and Cricetodipus, many of the expressions applicable 

 to Dipiodomys require modification. Perognathus is a link between 

 the two families, just as, in its own family, Cricetodipus is between 

 Perognathus on the one hand, and the extraordinarily modified 

 Dip>odomys on the other. 



This brings us to consideration of what if any division may be 

 made of the family Saccomyidee into groups of more than generic 

 value. The genus Dipodomys is so exaggerated in some of its 

 peculiarities that, as it seems to me, its features may properly be 

 set over against the characters which Perognathus and Cricetodipus 

 share together. The leading antitheses may be indicated in the 

 following manner : 



Subfamily Perognathidin^e. Subfamily Dipodomyin^e. 



{Perognathus and Cricetodipus.) {Dipodomys alone.) 



Molars rooted. Molars rootless. 



Anterior molar with a lobe in addi- Anterior molar a simple prism, 

 tion to the main prism. 



Skull half as wide as long, and Skull two-thirds as wide as long, 



two-thirds as high as wide. and half as high as wide. 



Mastoids moderately developed Mastoids extraordinarily developed 



[ for this family). (even for this family). 




278 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Subfamily Perognathidin^:. 



(Perognathus and Crketodipus.) 



Tympanic little inflated. 



Occipital plane not, or not much, 

 emarginate. 



Petrosals, though approximate, 

 not in contact with each other, but 

 with the basi-occipital throughout. 



Zygomatic plate of maxillary of 

 ordinary rodent character. 



Parietals pentangular. 



Interparietal wider than long. 



No pit on inner side of jaw near 

 the molars. 



Hind limbs little if any longer 

 than the fore, not very obviously 

 saltatorial. 



Soles naked of sparsely pilous. 



Pelage comparatively coarse and 

 harsh. 



Inner hind digit moderately de- 

 veloped and low down. 



Subfamily Dipodomyin^:. 



(Dipodomys alone.) 



Tympanic completely bullous. 

 Occipital plane deeply emarginate. 



Petrosals in mutual contact at their 

 apices, and fissured away from basi- 

 occipital. 



Zygomatic plate of maxillary roof- 

 ing much of the orbit. 



Parietals triangular. 



Interparietal longer than wide. 



A deep pit on inner side of jaw 

 near the molars. 



Hind limbs elongated, jerboa-like, 

 highly saltatorial. 



Soles densely hairy, like a rabbit's 

 foot. 

 Pelage comparatively soft. 



Inner hind digit rudimentary and 

 elevated. 



I am unable to say how nearly the genera Saccomys and Hetero- 

 mys may coincide with the characters of Perognathidinee as here 

 established ; but it is my impression that they will prove to con- 

 stitute a third subfamily. In such case, some of the characters 

 of the three would be as follows : 



Dipodomyin^e. Molars rootless ; upper incisors compressed, 

 sulcate. 



PEROGNATiiiDiNiE. Molars rooted ; upper incisors compressed, 

 sulcate. 



SACcoMYiNiE. Molars rooted ; upper incisors broad, smooth. 



Subfamily Perognathidinee, Coues. 



The characters of the group having been already sufficient^ 

 elucidated, it only remains to note the two genera by which it is 

 represented in North America. These may be readily distinguished 

 by much stronger characters than any hitherto adduced. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



Genus Perognathus. Genus Cricetodipus. 



Occiput nearly plane, i, e. , the mas- Occiput with a broad emargination, 



toids not projecting noticeably back i.e., the mastoids bulging decidedly 



of the occipital. back of the occipital. 



Apices of petrosals separated by Apices of petrosals almost meeting 



the whole width of the basisphenoid. beneath the basisphenoid. 



Parietals perfectly pentagonal, Parietals imperfectly pentagonal, 



with nearly equal sides. inequilateral. 



Interparietal elliptical, much broad- Interparietal pentagonal, shield- 



er than long, embraced between nar- shaped, embraced between mere 



row plates of occipital. spurs of the occipital. 



Ear with a distinct upright lobe of Ear with no vestige of a lobe either 



the antitragus, and generally also a of antitragus or tragus, 

 lobe of the tragus. 



Soles naked to the heels, at least Soles entirely hairy on the pos- 



along a central stripe. terior half. 



Size of Mus musculus, or much Very diminutive; much less in 



larger. size than Mus musculus. 



The cranial characters above adduced, it may be observed, are 

 all co-ordinated with the single main feature of much greater de- 

 velopment of the mastoid in Cricetodipus than in Perognathus, the 

 state of the parts in the former being an evident approach to the 

 peculiarities of Dipodomijs itself. The difference in the shape of 

 the occiput is very striking when skulls of the two genera are 

 laid beside each other the part in Perognathus being quite flat, 

 as in most rodents, while Cricetodipus shows an emargination, 

 much broader and shallower than in Dipodomys indeed, but still 

 well marked. These cranial peculiarities, substantiating a genus 

 Cricetodipus distinct from Perognathus, do not appear to have 

 been noted before. They are correlated with the excellent and 

 readily appreciable external characters of the feet and ears already 

 presented by Prof. Baird. 



I. Genus PEROGNATHUS, Maxim. 



=Perognathus, Maxim., Nov. Act. Acad. Caes.-Leop. Carol. XIX. 1839, 369. 

 Type, P. fasciatus. 



< Perognathus, LeConte, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1853, 224; includes Criceto- 

 dipus. Baird, Mamui. N. A. 1857, 416 ; includes Cricetodipus. 



Having already indicated the generic characters of Perognathus, 

 I need only here give some further details respecting the skull 

 and teeth, following with an analysis of the species. I have 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



before me skulls of all the described North American species ex- 

 cepting fasciatus. They are so nearly similar, that description of 

 one "will suffice for all, barring some slight ultimate details of 

 size, etc. I select that of P. penicillatus for description, omitting 

 generalities already presented. The description may be compared 

 with that of Dipodomys given beyond. 



Although the temporal bone is largely developed in the mastoid 

 element, that lacks the enormous inflation seen in Dipodomys, the 

 general shape of the skull being not dissimilar to that of several 

 allied rodents. Nevetheless the mastoid represents the postero- 

 exterior aspect of the skull, and is large enough to crowd the 

 squamosal into the orbit, and cause a slight protuberance bej'ond 

 the actual plane of the occipital bone. But this is insufficient to 

 produce even the moderate emargination of this surface witnessed 

 in Cricetodipus, and is nothing at all like the regular cleft or 

 chink seen in Dipodomys. The ends of the petrosals are fairly 

 separated by the width of the basisphenoid ; they lie in contact 

 throughout with the basioccipital, and show a conspicuous for- 

 amen posteriori}- on the inner side. The meatus auditorius ap- 

 pears as a mere flange-like projection, intermediate in character 

 between the swollen vestibule of Dipodomys and the contracted 

 tube of Geomyidve, though nearest the latter. The occipital is 

 broader than in any other genus of the family, the forks which 

 embrace the interparietal being fairly laminar, instead of mere 

 spurs. The interparietal is much wider than long. The parietals 

 are almost perfectly pentangulai'. A slight spur of the squamosal 

 pushes out toward the meatus, but does not extend as a long clasp 

 over the tympanic ;' the squamosal is otherwise wholly orbital. 

 The frontal is quite flat on top, squarely and straightly truncate 

 behind, serrate in front for articulation with the rostral bones, 

 and with straight sides convergent posteriorly. There is a large 

 lachrymal of wholly irregular shape, extensively scroll-like, very 

 delicate in texture, and loosely attached ; it closes a large aper- 



1 In a specimen of Cricetodijms, I clearly see that a long slender spur is 

 scut out from the squamosal, like a clasp or hasp, lying above and reach- 

 ing back of the meatus. Cf. what is said of an apparently similar, but 

 not well made out appearance in Dipodomys, beyond. It is, in this case, 

 a slender remnant of squamosal bone, left in an ordinary place, after most 

 of the bone has been shoved into the orbit by the encroachment of the mas- 

 toid. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



ture leading into the nasal chamber. The orbit is also perforate 

 behind by a single very large foramen of exit of cranial nerves. 

 It is bounded in front, but not roofed over, by the zygomatic plate 

 of the maxillary, not noticeable in character. The extremely 

 delicate malar sutures in front for a long distance clasp-like 

 against the zygomatic process ; behind it simply abuts against a 

 slight heel of the squamosal, almost in relation with the tympanic. 

 The singularly displaced " anteorbital" foramen is a large rounded 

 aperture in the side of the snout, communicating directly with 

 the nasal cavity. The nasal bones are parallel-edged for most of 

 their length, but widen a little and become semi-tubular anteriorlj' 

 where they project ; they are truncate behind, reaching opposite 

 the middle of the jagged fronto-maxillary suture. The sides of 

 the rostrum are contracted below, leaving a very narrow bridge 

 of bone between molars and incisors ; the contracted incisive 

 foramina are bounded behind by the maxillaries, though they 

 are chiefly pierced in the intermaxillaries. The intermolar por- 

 tion of the palate is longer than wide, and a little convergent 

 anteriorly ; the maxillo-palatine suture is opposite the second mo- 

 lar ; there is a pair of deep palatal pits opposite the last molars ; 

 behind there is a pair of much larger vacuities bounded b} r palatals 

 in front, sphenoid behind, and pterygoids internally. The latter 

 are simple, straight, nearlj- parallel processes, bounding the con- 

 tracted posterior nares, and abutting against the petrosals. The 

 orbital plate of the sphenoid is of moderate extent, owing to the 

 size and site of the squamosal. 



The molars in this genus, as in others of the family excepting 

 Dipodomys, are all rooted. They have been said to have four 

 roots, but such is not the case in the specimens I have examined. 

 In P. penicillatus, all the upper molars have three roots apiece, 

 and all the under molars have two roots apiece, excepting the back 

 upper one, which has but one. The front upper molar has one 

 root in advance, corresponding to the anterior lobe of this tooth, 

 and a pair of roots obliquely side by side behind. The next two 

 upper molars have each an exterior pair of roots, lengthwise, and 

 a larger single root on the interior side; the back upper molar is 

 simply single-rooted. The under molars have each a pair of roots, 

 alligned lengthwise in a single series, but the two roots of the 

 back lower molar are imperfectly distinguished. With these last 

 19 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



exceptions, each root of all the teeth has its own distinct socket 

 in the alveolus. 



In the perfectly unworn state, the crowns of the molars are 

 studded with tubercles in regular transverse series. In the upper 

 jaw the anterior molar has four, an anterior, a posterior, an ex- 

 terior, and an interior, with perhaps another one part way up the 

 anterior lobe. The second and third upper molars have each six 

 tubercles, in two straight transverse rows of tln-ee each, these rows 

 separated by a deep sulcus. The smaller circular back upper 

 molar tends indistinctly to a similar state. In the lower jaw the 

 tuberculation is very similar ; but the four tubercles of the first 

 molar are in an anterior and posterior pair, and on the last one 

 the tubercles become indistinct. 



The teeth present a very different aspect when the tubercles are 

 ground off with wear. Each transverse row of tubercles becomes 

 converted into an island of dentine, there being thus, on the inter- 

 mediate molars at any rate, a pair of such transverse dentine islands 

 separated by a double ridge of enamel partition, between which is 

 the bottom of the sulcus already mentioned. This enamel fold 

 makes in from the outer side of the tooth nearly to the inner side. 

 The front molar shows a little isolated island of dentine anteriorly, 

 nearly circular, and a broad transverse one posteriorly. The state 

 of the under teeth is essentially the same. 



The upper incisors are small, compressed, with a strong back- 

 ward set. Their face is deeply channelled with a longitudinal 

 groove, and the exterior moiety is rabbeted down so that the groove 

 is visible laterally as well as from the front. This is a prominent 

 character, shared by Cricetodipus and Dipodomys, in distinction 

 from Saccomys and Heteromys. The under incisors are small and 

 simple. 



Before leaving this portion of the subject, I may as well men- 

 tion a curious circumstance: the ease with which the skulls of 

 Perognathus and Cricetodipus break apart across the middle. 

 This seems to be chiefly due to the delicate state of the zygomata, 

 which afford no stable connection between the fore and aft parts. 

 The break occurs at the basispheno-occipital, squamo-mastoid, and 

 fronto-parietal sutures the parietals, temporals excepting squa- 

 mosals, with the occipital, coming away from the rest of the skull. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



283 



Exj)lanation of figs. Left ear, 

 in each case, twice natural 

 size; upper fig. P. monttcola; 

 middle fig. P. penicillatus ; 

 lower fig. Cricetodipus fla- 

 vus. 



There appears to be something peculiar, 

 in the habits perhaps, rather than in the 

 scarcity, of the species, which prevents the 

 acquisition of large series of specimens in 

 this family. While hundreds of examples 

 of animals no larger or more conspicuous 

 than these are readily amassed, collections 

 are all deficient in Perognathus and Crice- 

 todipus, and not very full in Dipodomys. 

 I have not been able to examine more than 

 a hundred specimens altogether, and of 

 these more than half were Dipodomys. Of 

 Perognathus I have however specimens of 

 all the described North American species, 

 including all of Baird's types and consider- 

 able additional material. After protracted 

 examination, I endorse the validity of all 

 the species admitted by that author in 

 1857, and find indications of the probable 

 existence of one or two more. This point 

 is fully discussed beyond. The species 

 that appear to be established may be readily 

 determined by the following analysis, viz: 



A. Notch of the ear bounded in front by a slight, 

 though distinct, lobe of the tragus. Whole 

 fore leg white. 

 a. Tail penicillate, crested at the eud, rather 

 longer than the body and head. Sides with no fulvous stripe. 



PENICILLATUS. 



b. Tail simple; sides with a strong fulvous stripe. 



1. Tail decidedly shorter than the body and head. Length about 4 

 inches. Pelage moderately stiff. Mixed sandy and blackish. 



FASCIATUS. 



2. Tail not shorter than head and body. Length about 3 inches. 

 Pelage very hispid. Mixed cinnamon and blackish. . . hispidus. 



B. Notch of ear formed in front directly by the edge of the conch. Fore 

 leg mostly colored like the back. 



Tail simple ; lateral stripe obscure monticola. 



Perognathus fasciatus, Maxim. 



Perognathus fasciatus, Maxim., N. Act. Akad. Leop-Caes. Nat. Cur. xix. 

 pt. i. 1839, 369, pi. 34 ; Reise Nord-Am. i. 1839, 449 ; Arch. f. Na- 

 turg. 1861, ; Verz. Reise, 1862, 175, pi. 4, f. 6, 7. Wagn., Arch. 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



f. Naturg. 1841, 45; Suppl. Schreb. iii. 1843, 612. Scliinz, Syn. 



Mamm. ii. 1845, 259. Led, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pbila. vi. 1853, 224. 



Aud. *fc Bach., Q. N. A. iii. 1854, 341 (compiled). Giebel, Saugeth. 



1855, 572 (compiled). Bd., M. K A. 1857, 421 (Chihuahua). Bd., 



U. S. Mex. Bound. Surv. ii. pt. ii. 1859, Mamm. p. Suckl., P. R. 



R. Rep. xii. pt. ii. 18G0, 101 (compiled). Gray, P. Z. S., 1868, 201. 

 Perognatus fasceatus, Lincecum, Am. Nat. vi. 1872, p. 369 (habits). 

 Prognathic faceatus, Lincecum, Am. Sportsman, Feb. 28, 1874 (habits). 



Diagn. Largest of the genus ; considerably exceeding Hespe- 

 romys leucopus, and approaching Tamias quadrivittatus in size ; 

 length four inches or more: tail less ; hind foot about one inch. 

 Tail decidedly shorter than head and body, not penicillate. Ears 

 large; antitragus distinctly lobed. Soles naked to the heels at 

 least along a median strip. Above, reddish-} r ellow, closely lined 

 with blackish; below, including fore leg all around, white ; these 

 two colors separated by a conspicuous stripe of fawn color or 

 salmon red running the whole length of the body ; tail distinctly 

 bicolor. 



Hab. United States, west of the Mississippi and east of the 

 Rocky Mountains, and northern portions of Mexico. (Originally 

 described from the mouth of the Yellowstone ; re-described from 

 Chihuahua. Specimens examined by me from Nebraska, Kansas, 

 Texas, and Chihuahua.) 



I regret that the material before me includes no specimens in 

 the flesh, since I am thereby prevented from giving the size and 

 form of the species with desirable precision ; fortunately, how- 

 ever, in this instance the characters of the species are so strongly 

 marked, that lack of elaborate details of form will result in no 

 misunderstanding. The coloration, alone distinctive, can be ac- 

 curately given from several well-prepared skins before me. 



This species, the type of the genus, exhibits very distinctly the 

 two leading features of external anatomy which distinguish Perog- 

 nathns proper from Cricetodipus ; namely, the lobe of the anti- 

 tragus and the naked strip of the sole extending quite to the heel. 

 It is much the largest species of the genus known to inhabit the 

 United States, considerably exceeding P . penicillatus (which about 

 equals Wesperomys leucopus in size), and in fact, some specimens 

 are little if any smaller than Tamias quadrivittatus. For the 

 reason above given, the dimensions cannot be stated with precision ; 

 but the length from nose to root of. tail is obviously more than 

 four inches in all but one of the specimens before me; the tail is 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



decidedly shorter fhan the head and body (in all the other species 

 treated in this paper it is as long or longer). The vertebrae of 

 the tail of the only specimen before me in which these bones re- 

 main in situ, measure less than 4.00 inches, the length of the head 

 and body of the same specimen being about 4.50. Likewise the 

 hind feet are proportionally shorter than in any of the other spe- 

 cies ; they average only one inch in length, thus not exceeding 

 those of P. penicillatus, which is a smaller animal. On the con- 

 trary, the ears are larger, both absolutely and relatively, than those 

 of any other species, standing about 0.40 high, measured from the 

 notch ; the ears thus project conspicuously above the fur of the 

 parts ; the flap is suborbicular in outline ; the antitragus develops 

 a very prominent lobe, bounding the notch posteriorly ; and in 

 front of the notch there is also a little prominence, just behind 

 the termination of the margin of the ear. The flattened portions 

 of the auricle are sparsely pilous inside and out, and a tuft of 

 lengthened hairs springs from the front border of the ear. 



The attenuated and elongated muzzle is densely pilous, except- 

 ing a small T-shaped nasal pad, divided by a median depression. 

 The upper lip, in particular, is thickly covered with stifflsh, flaring 

 hairs, completely concealing any median cleft which may exist, 

 and forming a heavy fringe which droops over and almost hides 

 the incisors ; there is a reversed tuft of bristly hairs on the chin. 

 The openings of the cheek pouches seem to have no peculiar char- 

 acter, being much as in other species of the genus; the cavity 

 admits the first joint of one's little finger. The whiskers are very 

 numerous and fine; the shorter colorless ones seem like mere 

 lengthening of the hairs of the muzzle; others, stiffer and colored, 

 reach rather beyond the head. There are also some long special 

 bristles over the eye, and others between the eye and ear. 



The palm proper, and under surfaces of the digits, are perfectly 

 naked, though a considei-able fringe of hairs falls down from the 

 wrist. There is a large and conspicuous smooth tubercle on the 

 outer side, at the base of the fifth digit ; two others, one on each 

 side, at the wrist, and others at the bases of the intermediate 

 digits ; the disposition of these smaller ones is not very evident 

 in the dried specimens. The thumb is rudimentary, a mere stump, 

 bearing a flattened obtuse nail; the other digits are armed with 

 ordinary compressed, acute and moderately curved claws ; the 3d 

 is longest; then come 4th, 2d, and 5th in succession. Of the hind 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



foot, the sole is perfectly naked for its whole length along a median 

 strip, narrowed by encroachment on either side of a fringe of hairs. 

 On the outer side, about half-way from heel to base of digits, is a 

 small tubercle; there is another near the base of the 1st digit, 

 and a much larger one near the base of the 5th digit, with others 

 still at the bases of the intermediate digits ; but their precise dis- 

 position, and the character of the naked sole cannot be made out 

 perfectly. The first digit is very small, with a smooth bulbous 

 end and short blunt claw ; the other claws are of a more ordinary 

 character, but relatively shorter, blunter, less compressed and less 

 curved, than those of the hand; they are excavated underneath. 



The tail is completely but rather thinly haired ; and, especially 

 toward the end, the hairs stand apart and are somewhat lengthened 

 (as is usual in the genus); still they do not develop into the 

 decided comb or crest, or tuft at the end, which is characteristic 

 of P. penicillatus. 



The pelage of this species is coarse, harsh, and stiffish (as in 

 other species of typical Perognathus), though not to a degree which 

 could bear the term "spiny" or even bristly; it has been likened 

 to fine-spun glass, though such expression might be considered 

 strong, unless excessively delicate glass is meant. The fur has 

 considerable gloss ; there is no under fur whatever. The character 

 seems to me to be much as in the murine Sigmodon hispidus, and 

 in fact the specimens before me have considerable superficial resem- 

 blance to the young of that species. A likeness to Jaculus hudso- 

 nius is perhaps even stronger. The color of the upper parts is a 

 light sandy-yellowish, closely lined throughout with blackish, 

 producing a fine grizzle. The greater part of the length of the 

 individual hairs is the color of barely tarnished cut lead; rather 

 light, and unlike the heavier plumbeous of most rodents. This is 

 succeeded by the sandy ends of the hairs ; a part of them are of 

 this last color to the very end, while others have the tips blackish, 

 producing the grizzle above mentioned. The line of demarcation 

 of this color begins on the side of the nose, and runs straight over 

 the shoulder and sides of the body, descending the hind limb to 

 the heel. To this succeeds a strip of rich reddish-yellow or 

 salmon-color, beginning on the cheeks and following the line 

 already indicated to the heels, but also descending a little way on 

 the fore leg. This color is pure, the hairs being so colored to the 

 roots, there being no plumbeous basal portions and no blackened 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



tips. The whole under surface, together with the feet, roost of the 

 fore leg and the inner aspect of the hind leg, is white, and on these 

 white areas the hairs are of this color to the roots. The line of 

 demarcation with the fawn color is pretty sharp, but less so in 

 some cases than in others, sometimes the whole belly showing a 

 tawny shade. The tail is bicolor; a brown or dusky stripe runs 

 the whole length of the upper surface ; the sides and under surface 

 being white or tinged with rusty; the latter particularly when the 

 white of the belly is similarly tinged. Besides these special mark- 

 ings, there is decided indication of a dusky stripe from the nose 

 under the eye and ear to the side of the neck, produced by increase 

 of the blackened tips of the hairs along the line. Some of the 

 whiskers are black, others being colorless. The pouches are white 

 inside. The claws are colorless. 



The series of specimens at mj 7 command does not suffice for a 

 complete exposition of the variation in color of this species. In 

 all the lateral stripe is conspicuous, and the other characters differ 

 little. I note, however, a decidedly richer tone in the Mexican 

 and Texan specimens than in those from Kansas and Nebraska. 



It is probable that the skull of this animal, when examined, will 

 afford some appreciable specific characters, in size at least, if not 

 in details of conformation. 



Perognathus penicillatus, Woodh. 



Perognathus penecillatus, Woodh., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. vi. 1853, 



200. (San Francisco Mts., Arizona.) 

 Perognathus 'penicillatus, Woodh., Sitgreaves' Rep. Expl. Zuni and Col. R. 



1853, 49, pi. 3. Le C, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1853, 225. 



(Mere mention.) And. and Bach., Q. N. A. iii. 1854, 298. (Copied 



from Woodh.) Bd., M. N A. 1857, 418, pi. 20, f. 5. Gray, P. Z. 



S. 1868, 201. (Wrong locality assigned. 1 ) Coues, Am. Nat. i. 1867. 

 Perognathus parvus, Le Conte, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. vi. 1853, 225, 



in part. Not Gricetodipus parvus, Peale. (The specimen noticed, 



from the Colorado Desert, is apparently a very young example of P. 



penicillatus. ) 



Diagn. About the size of Hesperomys leucopus. Tail vertebras 

 obviously longer than head and body. Hind foot more than one- 

 fourth the length of head and body. Tail crested above towards 



1 The San Francisco Mountains are several hundred miles from San Fran- 

 cisco City, California, nearly in the middle of Arizona formerly a part of 

 New Mexico. The locality appears to puzzle some writers. 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



the end, and with long terminal pencil of hairs. Soles distinctly 

 naked to the heels, at least along a median strip. Antitragus 

 distinctly lobed, with a sharp teat-like projection, opposite which 

 is another smaller but distinct lobe of the tragus, the notch of the 

 ear being defined by these two prominent points, the edge of the 

 ear itself not bounding the notch at all. No appreciable fulvous 

 stripe along the sides, where the color of the upper parts meets 

 the white of the under parts without intervention of a third color. 

 Above, gray; an intimate mixture of yellowish-gray with a dull 

 grayish-brown; below, including whole fore leg, fore and hind 

 feet, and inner aspect of thighs, white ; tail bicolor dark above, 

 white below. Length about 3.25 inches (2.90-3.60) ; tail vertebrae 

 about 4.00 (3.50-4.40), with a tuft half an inch or more longer. 

 Soles about 0.95 (0.90-1.00) ; ear above notch, 0.33 (0.30-0.35). 



Hab. The basin of the Colorado River. (The very few speci- 

 mens at present known to naturalists have all come from Arizona 

 and the adjoining border of Southern California.) 



Description (from Woodhouse's type (mounted), and several 

 more recent specimens, dry and in the flesh). In all the other 

 species of Perognathm given on these pages the tail, whether longer 

 than the body or decidedly shorter, is simply haired, with the 

 terminal hairs no longer than those surrounding the tail. The 

 present species is therefore remarkably distinguished by the comb 

 or crest of long hairs on the terminal third or more of the member, 

 produced b}- a gradual lengthening until those at the end are half 

 an inch or more in length, producing a penicillate brush propor- 

 tionally as long as that of some species of Tamias or even Sciurus. 

 With this singular character others of equal tangibility are 

 coordinated. The description to be given will include some points 

 common to the genus, as, with one exception, the present is the 

 only species of Perognathus of which I have specimens in the flesh. 



The head is about one-third of the total length of head and 

 body ; broad and full across the temporal and orbital regions, 

 thence tapering rapidly to the produced but rather blunt snout. 

 The muzzle is entirely and densely pilous excepting a small nasal 

 pad, with a median furrow; the nostrils are very small and 

 irregular in contour. The long upper lip is heavily clothed with 

 stillish hairs, forming a fringe which droops over and hides the 

 incisors. The whiskers are numerous and very fine; besides the 

 labial set, the longest of which much exceed the head in length, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



there are others about the eye and ear. The eye is of moderate 

 size, and situated much nearer to the ear than to the nose. The 

 ear shows very conspicuously the prominent lobe of the antitragus 

 which is the chief external peculiarity of this genus as compared, 

 with Gricetodipus ; and opposite to it, on the other side of the 

 notch, there is a similar and smaller but still very evident tubercle, 

 just within the border of the ear. These two prominences together 

 cause the notch of the ear to be very strongly denned, and the 

 margin of the external ear is altogether excluded from the notch. 

 The contour of the ear is broadly rounded. The slit of the cheek 

 pouch is about half an inch long, beginning on the side of the 

 upper lip and curving around with a free border to near the angle 

 of the jaw, there being but narrowly separated from its fellow. 



The details of the palms and soles, as clearly made out from 

 the material before me, are probably applicable also to those other 

 species of the genus of which only dried skins are before me. The 

 palm is entirety naked; it presents posteriorly a pair (inner and 

 outer) of immense smooth tubercles, reminding one of the state of 

 the parts in Geomys. Anterior^ there are three smaller but still 

 very conspicuous bulbs ; one at the base of, respectively, the 2d 

 and 5th digits, and one at the conjoined base of the 3d and* 4th. 

 The palm is otherwise uniformly studded with small elevated 

 granulations, and the digits are similarly roughened underneath. 

 The minute thumb ends club-shaped, bearing upon its back a flat 

 nail, which, like those of the human fingers, does not project at all 

 beyond the end of the digit. The whole thumb is no more con- 

 spicuous than one of the palmar pads. The other digits bear 

 ordinary claws ; the 3d is longest; the 2d and 4th are subequal 

 to each other and but little shorter than the 3d ; the 5th is more 

 abbreviated, but its claw-tip still falls beyond the base of the 4th 

 claw. 



As a consequence perhaps of the desert habitat of this species, 

 the nakedness of the sole, which is one of the secondary characters 

 distinguishing the species of Perognathus from those of Criceto- 

 dipux, is here carried to an extreme. The sole may be called 

 naked without qualification; for the fringe of hairs which droops 

 over its sides does not encroach in the least upon the under surface 

 except just at the side of the contracted posterior part of the heel 

 itself. The whole sole is uniformly paved with minute granula- 

 tions. Among these, one constantly larger than the rest is 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



always observed on the inner side about half way clown the meta- 

 tarsus ; and a similar one is found at the base of each of the 

 diffits. The digits are marked beneath with transverse lines of 

 impression, and end in a smooth slightly clubbed tip. The first 

 disjit, though small, is perfectly formed, and bears an ordinary 

 claw, the tip of which falls opposite the base of the second digit ; 

 the longer 3d digit but slightly exceeds the 2d and 4th, which are 

 about equal to each other ; the end of the claw of the 5th digit 

 falls opposite the middle of the 4th one. 



In the development of the hind limbs of this and the next 

 closely allied species of Perognathus, there is more indication of 

 a saltatorial tendency than appears in the case of P.fasciatus, 

 but the difference is not very striking; it is no more than that 

 which may be inferred on comparison of Cricetodipus parvus 

 with C. flavus, and it falls far short of the state of the case exhi- 

 bited by Dipodomys. Still, the supposed saltatorial character is 

 further borne out, upon analog3 r , by the peculiar character of the 

 long penicillate tail, already fully described. 



I find it difficult to describe the color of the upper parts satis- 

 factorily. It has been called " a light dull yellowish-brown or 

 tawney, lined with dark-brown." The prevailing tone is decidedly 

 " gray" in comparison with the strong mixed yellowish and black- 

 ish of P. fasciatus somewhat the shade of dilute coffee and milk. 

 The lighter hairs are dull yellowish-gray, with darker lining of 

 hair brown. There is a general tinge of the palest possible cinnamon. 

 All the bases of the hairs are of the color of fresh-cut lead. 

 There is no appreciable lateral stripe of different color from the 

 upper parts, although just along the line of junction with the 

 white, the color lightens a little for lack of the darker brown 

 lining. The extreme tip of the snout, the cheeks, the whole fore 

 leg, the inner aspect of the hind leg, the feet, under side of tail, 

 and under parts generally, are white; the line of demarcation 

 runs straight from nose to hind leg, where it drops down to the 

 heel. The upper surface of the tail and the brush at the end are 

 hair-brown. Some of the whiskers are black; others, like the 

 claws, are colorless. 



The external sexual characters of this and other species of the 

 family are readily recognizable. In consequence of the develop- 

 ment of the os penis, the preputial sheath is a resisting prominence 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



291 



immediately in advance of the anus ; the same part in the female, 

 shows a conical flap depending from the front of the vulva. 



Having only about a dozen adult specimens of this species to 

 examine, the full range of variation can only be given with approxi- 

 mate accuracy. Still theseries is a very good one as far as it goes, 

 and the number of alcoholics afford reliable measurements. Dr. 

 Woodhouse's type is much faded by twenty 3'ears' exposure to 

 the light. The others agree perfectly in coloration, and the dif- 

 ferences in size are slight. I may here remark, that in the table 

 of measurements given by Prof. Baird, the dimension (nose to 

 tail) given from the dried specimens there enumerated is cer- 

 tainly over the mark. Thus, Woodhouse's type is given as 4.12 

 long, whereas the original description of the same specimen gives 

 this dimension as 3.50. 



Measurements. 



Taking the last seven sets of measurements of the fore^oingc 

 table (all made from sexed specimens in the flesh, and taken by 

 the same person, 2 so that a source of error which lies in different 



1 The measurements of length and of tail vertebrae are from Woodhouse. 

 In its present state the tail, as well as can be judged, is about 4.50 long, 

 exclusive of the terminal pencil, which is half an inch more. The dry mea- 

 surements are not reliable. 



2 In measuring tails, I take as nearly as possible the true length, by 

 placing one leg of the compasses snugly above the anus. The. length to 

 which the tail projects beyond the body-hairs, or its ostensible dimen- 

 sion, is considerably less. 




292 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



methods of measurement is avoided) we observe that the total 

 length varies from 2.90 to 3.60 a difference of 0.70 a fair rate of 

 variability for a species. The tail, as usual, varies more than the 

 bodv, or, in this instance, about an inch, whether the vertebrae alone 

 being considered, or the terminal pencil be taken into account. 

 The relatively shortest tail (vertebras alone), is half an inch 

 longer than the head and body, or, with the hairs, an inch longer. 

 The relatively longest tail (vertebras alone), is an inch and a 

 quarter longer than the head and body ; with the hairs, nearly 

 two inches longer. Much as usual, the rate of relative variability 

 is greater than that of absolute difference in dimension. The 

 soles vary a tenth of an inch in length, or about 9^ per cent, of 

 their average length. Other smaller measurements give corre- 

 sponding results. The rates of variation, which are determined 

 for the present species, are doubtless equally applicable to others 

 of the genus, of which I have no alcoholic specimens. 



Upon the supposition that the other allied species described in 

 this paper are really distinct from P. penicillatus, this has a re- 

 markably restricted geographical distribution. So far as I am 

 aware, there are no specimens extant from beyond the limits of 

 the Colorado Valle}', in that portion of its extent which embraces 

 Arizona and the contiguous part of California on the opposite 

 side of the river. Specimens are rare ; there may be none whatever 

 in Europe. Woodhouse, LeConte, Baird, and myself, are, per- 

 haps, the only naturalists who speak of the species from autop- 

 tical examination. 



The relationships of some allied species being considered under 

 other heads, the only point now arising for discussion relates to 

 the " Cricetodipus parvus" of LeConte, 1. c. The specimen upon 

 which the writer based his remarks is now before me. It is not 

 adult, as supposed, but very young and ungrown, as shown by the 

 unworn state of the teeth ; although the tail is not crested, there 

 arc indications that it would have become so ; the relative propor- 

 tions and coloration are exactly as in P. jyenicillatus, to which 

 I have little hesitation in referring it. In any event it is a true 

 PeroriDathus, arid not Cricetodijms at all, as shown beyond ques- 

 tion by the obviously naked soles and distinctly recognizable 

 lobe of the antitragus. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



Perognathus monticola, Baird. 



Perognathus monticola, Baird, M. N. A. 1857, 422, pi. 51, figs. 3a-h (St. 

 Mary's, R. Mts.). Suckl., P. R. R. Rep. xii. pt. ii. 1860, p. 101 (notice 

 of the same specimen). 



Diagn. (No. 1251, 9 , Fort Crook, Cala., J. Feilner.) Size of Mus 

 musculus. Tail, including haivs, an inch longer than the head 

 and body, the vertebras alone over half an inch longer. Hind foot 

 nearly one-third as long as head and body; naked strip on sole 

 very narrow posteriorly ; antitragus with a great, flat, rounded, 

 upright lobe, but no lobe of tragus opposite, the notch being de- 

 fined in front by the outer edge of the ear itself. Tail not penicil- 

 late nor crested ; rather thinly but nearly uniformly haired 

 throughout. Pelage very soft and smooth for this genus much 

 as in Cricetodipus. Color of upper parts descending on the fore 

 leg to the wrist. A fulvous lateral stripe, indistinct but evident ; 

 hairs of under parts pure white to the roots ; tail bicolor. Above 

 yellowish-cinnamon lined with blackish, the latter predominating; 

 below, white. Length 2.50 ; tail vertebrae 3.20 ; hind foot 0.80. 



Hab. St. Mary's Mission, W. of Rocky Mts. to Otter Creek, 

 Utah, and Fort Crook, California. 



Description. The generalities of form of this animal are much 

 the same as those of its nearest allies. In relative leno;th the tail 

 nearl} r equals that of P. penicillatus, but it is uniformly haired 

 throughout, without indication of crest or penicillation. The 

 soles are not so extensively denuded as those of P. penicillatus, 

 owing to encroachment of hairs from the sides ; still there is a fairly 

 naked strip to the extreme heel. The tuberculation of the palms 

 and soles, and the proportions of all the digits, are substantially 

 as in that species. The animal is much smaller than any other 

 species of the genus, not much exceeding a Cricetodipus in size. 

 But the most remarkable character is found in the structure of 

 the ear it is singular how sharply distinguished some species of 

 the genus are in this respect. In P. penicillatus a sharp teat-like 

 projection of the antitragus defines the notch posteriorly, and 

 opposite to it on the other side of the notch, there is a similar but 

 smaller prominence of the tragus bounding the notch anteriorly ; 

 thus the external edge of the ear itself is altogether excluded 

 from formation of the notch. Now in P. monticola, the lobe of 

 the antitragus is a broad, flat, upright flap, both relatively and 

 absolutely larger than that of P. penicillatus, but there is no cor- 




9 



294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



responding lobe of the tragus on the other side of the notch, the 

 front border of the notch being formed by the external edge of 

 the ear itself; this state of the parts is an approach to the con- 

 dition seen in Cricetodipus, and is a perfectly distinctive mark of 

 P. monticola in its own genus. This important distinction escaped 

 the describer of the species ; but it should be added that it is only 

 fully appreciable upon examination of fresh or alcoholic speci- 

 mens, and that the type of the original description had been 

 mounted when examined. Furthermore, the ears of P. monticola 

 are smaller than those of P. penicillatus, and scarcely more than 

 half the size of those of P. fasciatus. 



Another good character of the species is found in the softness 

 and fineness of the fur. The pelage not so stiff and firm as in 

 P. penicillatus even, and has nothing of the " spun glass" char- 

 acter seen in P. fasciatus and still more so in P. hispidus. 



The coloration of the species is inanity distinctive in the circum- 

 stance that the dark color of the upper parts descends the fore 

 leg to the wrist, whereas on all the other species examined the 

 whole fore leg is white. The upper parts are an intimate mixture 

 of tawny and blackish, much as in P. fasciatus. There is an 

 evident but not very distinct lateral fulvous stripe. The under 

 parts, in the specimen described (No. 7251), are light yellow, but 

 this is undoubtedly the effect of alcoholic discoloration, the parts 

 being no doubt white in life. The tail is bicolor to correspond with 

 the body colors. 



While there is no question whatever of the distinctness of the 

 subject of the present article from any others described in this 

 paper, there are some points to be considered respecting its refer- 

 ence to P. monticola of Baird. The type of this species now 

 before me has been mounted and exposed to the light for about 

 twenty years ; it is faded and otherwise in poor state, the end 

 of the tail and much of the fur being; lost. The color is now a 

 uniform dull grayish-brown, much like the natural color of P. 

 penicillatus, instead of " mixed cinnamon and dusky," as origi- 

 nally described ; and the tail is uniformly dingy white, instead of 

 being " colored to correspond ;" the hairs below are all white in- 

 stead of " plumbeous at base ;" and no lateral stripe is now ap- 

 preciable, though an " indistinct" one was mentioned. But the 

 main peculiarity of the species as to coloration, namely, the 

 descent of the dark color down the fore leg to the wrist is still 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



295 



evident, and in short, I find no color differences not explicable 

 upon consideration of the comparative state of the two specimens. 

 We may therefore turn to the matter of size and proportions. 

 Prof. Baird says, " tail rather shorter than head and body," giving 

 the length of the former as 2.67 -f, and of the latter as 3.00 ; 

 whereas my animal is but 2.50 long, and has a tail of 3.20. But 

 the decided discrepancies in these statements and measurements 

 are readily reconciled upon the simple consideration that the tail 

 is defective and the body over-stuffed in the type of monlicola. 

 This brings about an agreement further borne out by the other 

 measurements. In the following table, the first line of measure- 

 ments are copied from Baird ; the other is taken from the Fort 

 Crook specimen, upon which this article is based, before skinning 

 out of alcohol. 



Measurements. 



The principal discrepancy being explicable as above, there is 

 nothing whatever in the foregoing table incompatible with specific 

 identity. Moreover, it so happens that the left ear of the type is 

 in sufficiently good preservation to enable me to clearly recognize 

 the peculiar conformation which distinguishes the present species 

 from the others. 



To this same species I am also inclined to refer two specimens 

 collected by Mr. H. W. Henshaw on Otter Creek, in Utah. These 

 are apparently 3 r oung animals, but, as they are not accompanied 

 with the skulls, the fact cannot be determined. The tail of each 

 has been skinned, and is now so shrivelled that nothing can be 

 predicated as to its length, either relative or absolute. The spe- 

 cimens are quite small; they have been over-stuffed, measuring 

 now about 2^ inches, but were probably not much if any over 2, 

 with a hind foot of 0.80; in fact they might be taken at first sight 

 for a Cricetodijms. But the soles are naked along a narrow strip 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



quite to the heel ; the antitragus has a very prominent lobe ; and 

 even from the dried skins I determine, with no appreciable chance 

 of mistake, that the ear has the other peculiarity of P. monticola. 

 The pelage is remarkably soft ; the coloration is different from that 

 of any other Perognathus I have seen, being plumbeous (like the 

 plumbago-colored specimens of Geomys and Thomomys), with 

 little admixture of lighter color ; and the soles show a decided 

 fulvous stripe. But these specimens exhibit the fore leg colored 

 quite to the wrist, and I am inclined to attribute the dark color 

 to their immaturity. I shall therefore assign them to P. monti- 

 cola. 



The four specimens noticed are the only ones which have come 

 under my observation. To sum the casein a few words, we have 

 here an animal unquestionably distinct from any of the other spe- 

 cies described in this paper, the only question being whether all 

 the specimens referred to it are specifically identical. They os- 

 tensibly differ to a degree that would undoubtedly have caused 

 them to be described as two or three species at the period when 

 Prof. Baird's work was prepared. This question must await the 

 reception of additional material for its satisfactoiy solution. I 

 can only say that I am at present unable to see more than one 

 species. Should the contrary be determined, the present article 

 is to be held as based upon the Fort Crook specimen, to which 

 the name of P. mollipilosus may be applied. 



Perognathus hispidus, Baird. 



Perognathus Mspidus, Baird, M. N. A. 1857, 421, pi. 51, fig. 4 a-g. Baird, 



U. S. and Mex. B. Surv. ii. pt. ii. 1859, Mamm. p. .Gray, P. Z. S. 



18G8, 202 (compiled). 



Diagn. Ear small, not projecting beyond the fur; its structure 

 as in P. fasciatus and iienicillatus (tragus and antitragus both 

 lobed). Soles naked. Tail not penicillate, rather longer than 

 head and body. Fur exceedingly stiff and coarse. Above yel- 

 lowish-cinnamon, closely lined with blackish, the color not de- 

 scending on the fore leg at all. Sides with a conspicuous fulvous 

 stripe. Tail bicolor. Under parts, with hind feet and whole of 

 fore leg, white. Length between 3.00 and 3.50; tail, rather more. 

 Sole of hind foot 0.90. 



Hab. The only two specimens known of this species were pro- 

 cured by Lt. Couch at Charco Escondido and Matamoras, Tamau- 

 lipas. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



Since the introduction of this species, as above, no additional 

 specimens have come to hand ; and as we have no further ma- 

 terial for amplification or verification of the original descrip- 

 tion, there is little more to be said about it at present. The 

 animal appears to be perfectly distinct from any other described 

 in this paper. With much the same size and proportion as those 

 of P. monticola, it is immediately distinguished by the radical dif- 

 ference in the conformation of the ear, the stouter as well as 

 rather longer feet, and the whiteness of the whole fore leg. From 

 penicillatus it differs in the much shorter and not penicillate tail, 

 less extensively denuded soles, and presence of a strong lateral 

 fulvous stripe. It is decidedly smaller than P. fascialus, with 

 which it shares the fulvous stripe, with a tail longer instead of 

 shorter than the body. Ears scarcely half as large, etc. From 

 all these species finally, it differs in the extraordinary harsh, 

 stiff, coarse hair; this is of great length, and devoid of under 

 fur, as in other species, but represents, in an exaggerated degree, 

 the pelage which is characteristic of the genus, in distinction 

 both from Dipodomys and Cricetodipus. 



The coloration of the species cannot be given with sufficient 

 accuracy. Both the specimens have been skinned out of alcohol, 

 and the tints are probably somewhat modified. One of them has 

 been so discolored by long immersion in a dirty fluid, as to be of a 

 uniform dingy greenish-brown in which the original colors cannot 

 be in the least discovered. The other, in better state, shows the 

 characters pretty well. There is a strong fulvous or salmon-colored 

 stripe along the whole body, just as in P. fascialus. The light 

 color of the upper parts is rather a pale cinnamon than the sandy 

 yellowish of P. fascialus. The hairs are light plumbeous at base, 

 and man} 7 of them are tipped with black, giving the dark surface 

 lining. The tail is sharply bicolor to correspond with the body. 

 The under parts, including the whole fore leg and the foot and in- 

 side of the hind leg, are white. 



As in the case of P. monticola, further information respecting 

 this species is much to be desired, particularly as there appear to 

 be some Mexican animals of this genus, with which we are at 

 present not well acquainted. The following measurements are 

 those given by Baird in his original notice : 



20 




298 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Measurements. 



Note on " Abromys lordi" etc. 



The foregoing pages embrace an account of all the species of 

 Perognathus which have come under my notice. There are, how- 

 ever, several other described animals which appear to belong in 

 this genus or in its immediate vicinity, one of these from the 

 United States. This latter is the Abromys lordi, Gray, P. Z. S. 

 1868, p. 202 ; the following is the notice in full. 



"3. ABROMYS, Gray. 



"Upper cutting teeth with a longitudinal groove; fur soft, abun- 

 dant, uniform, long, and close. Tail tapering, cylindrical, covered 

 with short hair almost hiding the rings of scales. 



"Perognathus, sp., S. Baird, Mamm. N. A. 423. 



" Abromys lordi. B. M. 



"Fur soft, abundant, gray-washed, with blackish tips ; chin and 

 under side of body whitish ; tail tapering, gray, with a blackish- 

 brown upper surface and tip ; hair of the back dark lead-color, 

 with a short gray band and minute black tip. 



"Perognathus monticolor [sic], Lord, in B. M. 



"?Perognathus monticola, S. Baird, Mamm. N. A. 422, t. 51, f. 3 

 (skull). 



" Hab. British Columbia {Lord). 



" The teeth destroyed. Length of body and head 3 inches, of 

 tail 3 inches. It diners from Dipodomys phillipsii and other spe- 

 cies of that genus in having no white spot over the eye at the 

 base of the ear, or white band across the thigh." 



This account, dealing chiefly in vague generalities, and including 

 a trivial comparison with an animal of a widely different genus, 

 is worthless for all practical purposes. It would be well if the 

 type could be re-described with reference to the points which afford 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 299 



distinctive characters in this group. We may suppose the animal 

 to be a Perognathus, from the general tenor of Dr. Gray's remarks, 

 and his curiously mixed up quotations ; and it is perhaps P. mon- 

 ticola, as that species has conspicuously soft hair in comparison 

 with some of its allies, and is of about the dimensions assigned. 



Specimens of any Saccomyine form from Oregon and Washing- 

 ton Territory are at present special desiderata. 



On the same page quoted, Dr. Gray describes a new species of 

 Perognathus in the following terms: 



" PEROGNATnUS BICOLOK, B. M. 



" Perognathus monticola, Gerrard, Cat. Bones B. M. (not Baird). 

 Black ; upper lip, lower edge of the cheek-pouch, head, and under 

 side of body and inner side of limbs white. Fur uniform bristly; 

 bristles elongate, slender, with a slender point, and intermixed 

 with very slender elongated hairs. Tail as long as the body, with 

 rings, square scales, and short bristly hairs. 



"Hah. Honduras (Salle). 



" There is a Spiny Bat from Honduras 1 with a longer tail and 

 smooth front teeth, agreeing in color with the above." 



1 have never seen a black and white Perognathus, nor one in 

 which "bristles" were mixed with "slender elongated hairs;" 

 but seeing the state of the fur in P. hispidus should not be sur- 

 prised at any degree of rigidity the hairs of a species might de- 

 velop further south. 



A " Perognathus fasciatus Salle" (nee auct.) is noticed by Gray 

 (torn, cit.), p. 205, as a synonym of his Eeteromys irroratus, n. 

 sp. from Oaxaca. This is said to agree with the description of 

 " H. [i. e. P.] fasciatus," but to have smooth upper incisors, etc. 

 Gray calls the fur of Heteromys " flat channelled spines." There 

 is nothing of this character in Perognathus, where the most rigid 

 fur of any United States species would scarcely warrant the term 

 "bristly." It is unexpected to find species of Perognathus, of 

 two authors, quoted among the synomyms of Heteromys. 



1 Characterized on p. 204 as Eeteromys melanoleucus, with " Perognathus 

 monticolor, [sic] Gerrard, B. M. not S. Baird," quoted as a synonym. 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



II. Genus CRICETODIPUS (Baird). 

 ? Cricetodipus, Peale, U. S. Expl. Exped. 1848, 52. Type - 



= Cricetodipus, Baird, M. N. A. 1858, 418. Type Perognathus flavus. Gray, P. Z. S. 

 1868, 202. 



In treating of this form as a subgenus of Perognathus, Prof. 

 Baird clearly showed its external peculiarities, namely, absence 

 of Jobation of the antitragus, hairy soles, and diminutive size; to 

 these points are to be added the cranial peculiarities coincident 

 with decidedly greater development of the mastoid than that seen 

 in Perognathus. The points having already been given, it is need- 

 less to recapitulate them. 



As noticed further on, the Cricetodipus parvus of Peale is an 

 uncertain animal. In erecting Cricetodipus into a genus, I take 

 P. flavus of Baird as the type, and follow this author in distin- 

 guishing a second species, which latter is probably, but not cer- 

 tainty, the P. parvus of Peale. The two appear to constantly 

 differ in the following characters : 



Tail scarcely or not longer than the head and body ; hind foot scarcely or 

 not one-third as long as head and body. flavus. 



Tail decidedly longer than head and body ; hind foot more than one-third 

 as long as head and body. parvus (of Baird). 



Cricetodipus flavus, Baird. 



Perognathus flavus, Baird, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1855,' 332. Baird, 



M. N. A. 1857, 423, pi. 8, f. 2, pi. 21, f. 3 a-f( assigned to Cricetodipus). 



Baird, P. R. R. Rep. x. 1859, Gunnison's and Beckwith's Route, 



Mamm. p. 8. Baird, U. S. Mex. B. Surv. ii. pt. ii. 1859, Mamm. 



p. Suckl., P. R. R. Rep. xii. pt. ii. 1860, 101 (Montana). 



Hayd., Trans. Am. Phil. Soc. xii. 1862, 147 (Loup Fork of Platte;. 



Allen, Proc. Bost. Soc. N. H. xxii. 1874, 42 (Yellowstone R.). 

 Cricetodipus flavus, Gray, P. Z. S. 1868, 203 (compiled). 



Diagn. Much smaller than Mus musculus; head and body two 

 inches ; tail the same ; hind foot 0.65 ; ear small, not overtopping 

 the fur, simple, without lobe of antitragus or tragus. Soles en- 

 tirely hairy on the posterior half. Tail not decidedly longer than 

 the head and body. Hind foot scarcely or not one-third as long as 

 head and body. Above, pale buff, intimately blended with black- 

 ish ; below, including whole fore leg, snowy white ; sides with a 

 clear buff stripe; tail obscurely bicolor ; white touches often found 

 about the ears. 



Hab. Rocky Mountains of the United States and eastward in 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 301 



the Middle Faunal Province, from the British Possessions (lat. 

 49, Coues) to Chihuahua, Mexico. (In the Pacific region re- 

 placed b3 r C. parvus.) 



Description (from numerous alcoholic and dry specimens, in- 

 cluding Baird's types). In general points of exterior conformation 

 this animal is so similar to species of Perognathus already fully 

 treated, that the account of these features may be abridged. The 

 generic character of structure of the ear and hairiness of the 

 sole, with the diminutive size, are the chief points. The ear is 

 very small and simple, not overtopping the fur of the parts. It 

 is evenly rounded ; there is no lobation whatever of either anti- 

 tragus or tragus, the slight notch which exists being formed in 

 front by the folded-over edge of the ear itself, and behind by the 

 antitragal ridge. The head is full, especially in the frontal region, 

 tapering to a bluntly conical snout, which is densely hairy except- 

 ing a minute nasal pad ; the upper lip is heavily pilous with a 

 fringe of hairs which droop over and hide the incisors. The eye 

 is rather small, and nearer to the ear than to the nose. The 

 whiskers are very numerous and fine, the longest exceeding the 

 head. On the palms are observed posteriorly two great tubercles, 

 of which the inner is much the largest ; there are others at the 

 base of the 2d and 5th, and of the conjoined 3d and 4th digits 

 respectively; otherwise the palm is studded with minute granu- 

 lations. The thumb is rudimentary, bearing a small flat nail ; 

 the other claws are of ordinary character ; 3d longest ; 4th little 

 less ; 2d shorter ; 5th still shorter. The hairiness of the soles 

 posteriorly is a generic character in comparison with Perognathus; 

 anteriorly granular, with a small tubercle at the base of each digit, 

 and another on the outer side of the metatarsus a little way up. 

 The small size of the hind feet, however, is one of the most obvious 

 distinctions from G. Parvus. The longest hind foot measured 

 in upward of twenty cases is only 0.70 long, or barely one-third 

 of the length of head and body, while the average is much below 

 this, and the minimum is only about one-fourth of the length of 

 the head and body. We may say simply that the foot is usually 

 nearer one-fourth than one-third of this dimension. Similarly the 

 shortness of the tail is a second character. In a large series, the 

 vertebrae of the tail average just exactly as long as the head and 

 body ; in no case does the tail exceed the body and head by more 

 than 0.25 of an inch, and this length is only exceptionally reached. 




302 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



In most cases, any difference which may be observed is the other 

 way, the tail being if anything a little shorter than the head and 

 body. The tail, as in other species of this genus and of Perognathus 

 (except P. penicillatus) is closel}', but not very thicklv, haired 

 uniformly throughout ; the terminal pencil is about a tenth of 

 an inch long. 



The pelage is extremely fine, soft, and gloss}\ The pictura is 

 the same as in other species of this genus and Perognathus, 

 namely, colored above with blended light and dark tints, white 

 below, with a clear, single-color stripe along the sides. The 

 upper parts are an intimate mixture of pale yellowish-buff with 

 dark brown or blackish ; the hairs are clear lead-color basally, 

 then buff-ringed, then most of them dark-tipped. The resulting 

 tone is nearly uniform over all the upper parts ; but there are 

 liable to appear whitish ortawn}^ touches about the ears and eyes, 

 and an appearance of a dark streak along the side of the head. 

 The fawn-colored lateral stripe is uninterrupted from nose to heels ; 

 the tint is rather brighter than the buff of the upper parts, and 

 pure, being not mixed with any dusky, and the color extending to 

 the roots of the hairs. The entire under parts, including the whole 

 fore leg, the hind feet, and inner side of hind leg are snowy white, 

 the hairs having no basal color. The tail is obscurely bicolor ; 

 white below, and not very sharply colored above to correspond 

 with the areas of the body. 



Veiy young specimens, though nearly full grown and showing 

 a sharp lateral streak, are more simply colored above than the 

 adults, being grayish with extremely faint bufty lining, instead of 

 sharply blackish and buff. There is also observable, in the series 

 before me, a tendency to exhibit two different tones of coloration. 

 Those from dry regions east of the mountains are mixed gra3 7 ish- 

 brown and grayish-buff, with the lateral pale buff stripe not very 

 conspicuous. In New Mexico, southern Texas, and southward 

 the animal frequently assumes a ruddier shade of the light color, 

 mixed with much less blackish ; in these, the lateral stripe is quite 

 indistinct, because the upper parts in general are not very different. 

 But the distinctions in these cases are not strong enough to require 

 anything further than this notice of the fact. 



The following table of measurements will illustrate the size and 

 shape of the species very fairly, and to some extent expose the 

 ran are of variation. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



303 



Measurements. 



Cricetodipus parvus, Baird (and Peal?). 



? Cricetodipus parvus, Peale, U. S. Expl. Exped. 1848, 53, "pi. 13, f. 2." 



Giebel, Saug. 1855, 600 (compiled from Peale). Gray, P. Z. S. 1868, 



203 (compilation of doubtful references). 

 ? Perognathus {Cricetodipus) parvus, Aud. and Bach., Q. N. A. III. 1854, 



328 (copied from Peale). 

 Perognathus parvus, Baird, M. N. A. 1857, 425 (based on a specimen from 



King's R., Cal., doubtfully referred to C. parvus of Peale). Baird, P. 



R. R. Rep. X. 1859, Williamson's Route, p. 82 (same specimen). 



Diagn. Quite like G. flavus ; tail and feet longer. Hind foot 

 0.70 or more, one-third or more as long as head and body. Tail 

 decidedly longer than head and body the vertebras about 2.50 

 inches, to a body of 2.00. 



Hab. United States west of the Rocky Mountains. Cali- 

 fornia, Utah (and ?Oregon, Peale). 



Of this supposed specie I have but a single specimen additional 

 to the material in Prof. Baird's hands in 1857. This is alcoholic,, 

 in good preservation, and enables me to give the dimensions with 

 accuracy. 



No. 9856, Mus. S. I. 9. Fort Tejon, Cala. J. Xantus. Nose to 

 eye 0.45, to ear 0.70, to occiput 0.90, to tail 2.00 ; tail vertebrae 

 2.50, with hairs 2.75; fore foot 0.25; hind foot 0.70; ear above 

 notch, 0.25. 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



A specimen from Utah (No. 439, Mus. S. I., formerly included 

 by Baird under G. flamis) seems to rather belong to G. parvu* : 

 the hind feet are still longer nearer 0.80 than 0.70 and the tail 

 at least as long as in No. 9856. 



As well as can be judged from the insufficient material before 

 me, this species does not differ materially in color from P. flavus; 

 and in fact the only diagnostic characters at present appreciable 

 are the greater length of the hind feet and tail. There is, however, 

 a decided difference in these respects. Further material will be 

 required to confirm the specific distinctness here accorded, or to 

 show that the two supposed species intergrade. Leaving this 

 matter, we may turn to the history of the species, some points of 

 which call for remarks. 



In the first place, it is not certain that the animal called parvus 

 by Baird in 1857, and by myself in the present instance, is really 

 the G. parvus of Peale. Prof. Baird spoke somewhat guardedly 

 in the matter, although he did not formally query his citations, 

 as I have done, and I find myself equally in doubt. Nor do I 

 see how the point is to be determined. For Peale's type, having 

 been lost or mislaid, is not at hand to testify ; and Peale's descrip- 

 tion, though elaborately detailed, will be found to consist entirely 

 of supergeneric characters, shared by all the species of Perog- 

 nathus and Cricetodipus, excepting the phrase "color above sepia- 

 brown," which is applicable to none of the species known to me. 

 The dimensions assigned agree exactly with those of the animal 

 defined in this article ; but they are equally applicable to a very 

 young Perognathus. In fine, there is no proof that Peale's genus 

 and species was not based upon a young Perognathus possibly 

 monticola. Therefore, while glad to concede that the probabilities 

 are the other way, I think it safest to query the citation of Peale's 

 animal and the compiled references that go with it; and I rest 

 upon the Perognathus parvus of Baird, about which there is no 

 uncertainty. LeConte's P. parvus, as I have already shown, is 

 really based upon a very young example of P. penicillatus. 



Baird's animal, from King's River, Cal., upon which the 

 present account is entirely based, is very immature, as shown by 

 the state of the teeth, though nearly or quite full grown. It 

 curiously resembles a very young P. penicillatus (like LeConte's 

 specimen for instance) ; and indeed, Prof. Baird was led, by its 

 immaturity and defective state of preservation, to suggest that it 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



might not improbably belong to P. penicillatus, though he pro- 

 ceeded to make it the basis of his P. parvus. It is, however, 

 unquestionabty a Cricetodipus, as I can affirm without qualifica- 

 tion from inspection of the skull, which clearly shows the bulge 

 of the mastoid back of an occipital emargination and other cranial 

 characters diagnostic of Cricetodipus, to say nothing of the hairy 

 soles and unlobed antitragus. I therefore accept the species as 

 first clearly defined by Baird, without necessarily involving the 

 question by including the doubtful animal of Peale. 



As already suggested, the chances are that Baird was right in 

 identifying his species with that of Peale, so that the name 

 Cricetodipus parvus will stand. But should the contrary prove 

 to be the case, and Cricetodipus, Peale, 1848, be conclusively 

 shown to be a synonym of Perognathus, Maxim., 1839, anew name, 

 generic and specific, will be required for the subject of the present 

 article. The name Otognosis would be appropriate, in allusion to 

 the facility with which the species may be distinguished from 

 those of Perognathus by the structure of the ear. The present 

 species may be called 0. longimembris, as the length of the hind 

 limbs and tail is its specific character in comparison with 0. 

 Jlava. 



III. Genus DIPODOMYS, Gray. 



Dipodomys, Gray, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. vii. 1840, 521, type D. philhpii. 

 Macrocolus, Wagner, Abh. K. Baier. Akad. xxii. 1845, type M. halticus. 



A. Generic Characters. 



Chars, (a. cranial). Skull light, thin, papery, depressed, broad 

 behind with swollen curves, tapering in front ; rostrum acuminate, 

 produced beyond incisors ; no interorbital constriction ; palate 

 plane ; occipital surface deeply emarginate. Zygomata straight, 

 thread-like, depressed to palatal plane; abutting against t} T m- 

 panics. Anteorbital foramina represented by a circular perfora- 

 tion of the front of the maxillaries. Large excavated lachrymals. 

 Parietals triangular ; an elongate interparietal embraced between 

 forks of occipital. Squamosals reduced to small plates bounding 

 the orbits posteriorly ; other elements of the temporal bone extra- 

 ordinarily developed, thin and bladdery, their sinuses of nearly as 

 great capacity as the cerebral cavity ; the mastoids especially 

 enormous, constituting nearly all the occipital and the greater 

 part of the superior (behind the parietals) surfaces of the skull ; 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



the tympanies proportionally inflated, with large non-tubular ori- 

 fice of meatus; the petrosals bullous, their apices in contact across 

 the median line below the basisphenoid. Tympanies, mastoids, 

 and parietals entering orbits. Occipital singularly reduced and 

 narrowed, bent into three planes at right angles; supra-occipital 

 bifurcate to inclose an interparietal ; paroccipitals narrow, flange- 

 like ; basioccipital separated by a continuous fissure from petro- 

 sals. Mandible small, stout, with a very slight coronoid. (b. den- 

 tal.) Superior incisors sulcate, connivent, pointing strongly back- 

 ward ; deeper than wide. Molars (| f ) simple, rootless, (c. ex- 

 ternal.) General form jerboa-like ; hind legs very long, saltatorial. 

 Tail rather longer than head and body, penicillate. Soles densely 

 furry. Feet with 1st digit rudimentary, but bearing a claw. Eyes 

 large and full; and ears large, orbicular. Snout produced, acute, 

 pilous except a small nasal pad. Whiskers half as long as the 

 whole body. Upper lip not cleft. Cheek pouches ample. Pelage 

 long, and veiy soft. Pictura of body and tail bicolor. Size of 

 a half-grown rat (Mus decumanus). 



The skull of Dipodomys, whether taken as a whole or con- 

 sidered in several of its details, is of extraordinary characters 

 not nearly matched outside the family to which it belongs. Many 

 of its features are shared, to a greater or less extent, by Perogna- 

 thus ; but the unusual characters are pushed to an extreme in 

 Dipodomys. The foregoing paragraphs merely indicate the more 

 salient peculiarities ; the skull is described in full beyond. The 

 enormal development of certain elements of the temporal bone, 

 and the results of this inflation upon the connections of the bone, 

 and general configuration of the skull, are the leading character- 

 istics. With this is co-ordinated the reduction of the squamosal 

 and occipital, and the curious shape of the latter, as well as the 

 anomalous abutment of the thread-like zygoma against the tym- 

 panic, and the contact of the petrosals with each other. In 

 Geomyidee, the temporals are of great size, but there is much less 

 distortion of the topography of the parts, both squamosal and 

 occipital maintaining ordinary characters. The temporal sinuses 

 together are scarcely less capacious than the brain-cavity itself; 

 the sense of hearing must be exquisitely acute, if co-ordinated with 

 the osseous state of the parts. 



Notwithstanding the singular condition of the skull of Dipodo- 

 mys, resulting from the hypertrophy of certain parts, and the 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



reduction of others, the relations with that of Geomyidse are both 

 close and clear; while Perognathus constitutes, in many respects, 

 an excellent connecting link. Numerous coincidences could be 

 pointed out, showing how the hint afforded by the presence in 

 these two families of ample external cheek pouches is borne out 

 in more essential features, notwithstanding the all but complete 

 difference in general outward appearance. 



B. Cranial Characters of Dijjodomys. 



As in other cases, it will be found most convenient to consider 

 the skull as a whole first, and afterward to examine its individual 

 bones. An immature specimen is preferable for the latter purpose, 

 though many or most of the sutures persist to extreme old age. 



In many respects, the skull of Perognathus approaches or closely 

 resembles that of Dipodomys, but the family peculiarities reach 

 their extreme development only in the latter. Comparative ex- 

 pressions used in the following paragraphs are to be considered 

 exclusive of Perognathus, unless the contrary is stated. 



The skull is much depressed ; elongated and acuminate in front ; 

 very broad behind, where the width is nearly two-thirds of the 

 total length; and, viewed from above, presents in general a tri- 

 angular shape, with the lateral angles completely rounded off, and 

 a deep emargination in the middle of the base. Zygomatic arches 

 scarcely come into this view at all ; the width of the skull midway 

 being much less than the intermastoid diameter. The outline of 

 the zygomata is perfectly straight ; between the turgid mastoid 

 region and the expanded plate-like zygomatic process of the max- 

 illary there stretches the needle-like molar, depressed to the level 

 of the palate. The outline of the orbits is a quadrate notch between 

 the saliences just mentioned. There is no interorbital constriction ; 

 were it not for the laminar z3 7 gomatic expansion of the maxillaries 

 and the bullous mastoids, the space between the orbits would be 

 the broadest part of the skull. The attenuate acuminate rostrum 

 springs directly opposite the broad zygomatic part of the max- 

 illaries, and extends beyond the incisors ; it is at least one-third 

 of the total length of the skull. The postero-lateral aspects of 

 the skull present enormous bulging masses rounded and somewhat 

 ovate the extraordinaripy developed mastoids. The same swell- 

 ings constitute also nearly all the occipital region, the median 

 line of which is a deep emargination. This character is perhaps 




308 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



unique ; nothing like it is seen even in Perognathus ; its peculiarity 

 is on a par with the immense rostral development in a walrus for 

 example. The resulting figure, as one author has aptly remarked, 

 bears a ludicrously close resemblance to the buttocks of the squat- 

 ting human figure, the mastoids being the nates, the emargination 

 being the cleft between, and the foramen magnum having an ob- 

 vious suggestiveness. The whole surface of the skull is smooth, 

 and gently convex in all directions. There are no ridges or 

 roughnesses ; the sutures persist plainly visible in adult life ; and 

 all the bones are remarkably t^iin and papery. 



Viewed in profile, the skull shows notable features. The high- 

 est point is over the orbits, where the frontal and parietals are 

 seen to be swollen ; thence the superior outline sweeps gently 

 down to the occiput, and in the other direction proceeds in a nearly 

 straight if anything slightly concave line to the tip of the 

 snout. The great projection of the nasals beyond the intermax- 

 illaries is well shown. The incisors in profile are seen to curve 

 far backward as well as downward. The palatal outline is nearly 

 straight, and declivous from before backward. Behind the palate 

 a small pterygoid hook is seen ; but beyond this the whole outline 

 is the inflated portions of the temporal bone hiding eveiything 

 else. On the side of the rostrum midway, there is a large cir- 

 cular foramen, low down, but little above the palatal level ; this 

 is the orifice corresponding to the " anteorbital"* foramen, here 

 singularly displaced. From its fellow of the opposite side it is 

 only separated by a very thin vertical septum, apparently ethmoi- 

 dal. This delicate partition being often broken through in pre- 

 pared skulls, has occasioned the statement of the inter-communi 

 cation of the two foramina. But I find the septum complete and 

 intact in some specimens, and although a vacuity may very possi- 

 bly naturally occur, such does not appear to be the rule. The 

 orbits appear as a subcircular fossa, largely roofed over in front 

 by the thin expanded zygomatic plate of the maxillary, and 

 bounded below by the molar. Independent^ of its laminar max- 

 illary portion, the zygoma is a slender, straight thread down to 

 the palatal level, and abutting behind against the tympanic. The 

 actual suture is squamosal, as usual, but there is a curious appear- 

 ance of connection with one of the otic bones. In the general 

 inflation of the posterior portion of the skull appears the large 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 309 



orifice of the meatus auditorius a simple circular opening in the 

 bullous mass. 



Viewed from below, the general contour is substantially the 

 same as that already noted from above; but many special parts 

 claim attention. So great is the backward obliquity of the inci- 

 sors that their faces show in this view with comparatively little 

 foreshortening. The incisive foramina are a pair of contracted 

 slits midway between the incisors and molars. The palatal surface 

 in advance of the molars is much compressed ; that between these 

 teeth is broader and quite flat ; its width posteriorly is little less 

 than its length : it contracts somewhat anteriorly, where it is marked 

 by a median ridge continuous with the septum between the incisive 

 foramina. That part of the palate constituted by the palatal 

 bones is marked with several minute foramina. The palate ends 

 behind with a sharp median spur ; on either side of this is an 

 emargination, and external to this a large fossa perforated with two 

 foramina anteriorly, and a third and much larger one behind. 

 Beyond the palatals themselves, the walls of the posterior nares 

 are continued by the pterygoids, which are small and hamulate, 

 the hook abutting against the petrosals. Between the ends of the 

 pterygoids, and right across the middle line of the skull, the apices 

 of the petrosals meet each other, forming a bridge beneath the 

 basisphenoid. The posterior parts of the skull, behind those 

 already considered, are almost entirely occupied by the inflated 

 elements of the temporal bone, between which lies the reduced 

 basioccipital ; this bone is narrowly acuminate, and is sepai-ated 

 from the petrosals for its whole length by a continuous fissure, 

 like that which, on the other side of the petrosals, separates these 

 bones from the alisphenoid and squamosal. The foramen mag- 

 num appears partly in this view, flanked by the slight condyles, 

 outside of which are seen the small distinct flange-like paroccipi- 

 tals. 



The posterior view of the skull shows little but the inflated 

 mastoids, with a cleft between, mostly occupied by the large 

 foramen magnum, around which the contracted occipital bone 

 appears as little more than the rim of this foramen. 



All the bones of the skull, as well as those of the top already 

 so described, are thin and light; and the base of the cranium is 

 remarkable for its extensive vacuities. Not only are the petrosals 

 separated from their surrounding by great fissures on either side, 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



rendering it almost necessary to their stability that they should 

 abut against each other at their extremities ; but there is also a 

 singular separation of the alveolar portion of the maxillaries 

 from the superincumbent parts, by a horizontal fissure ; so that the 

 palate appears as a sort of bridge between the fore and aft parts 

 of the skull. Various peculiarities will appear more clearly from 

 the following descriptions of individual bones. 



The complex temporal "bone" will be first considered, since 

 the prime peculiarities of the skull result from the wholly singular 

 condition of hj'pertrophy under which several of the elements of 

 this bone exist. The topography of the parts, and the connections 

 of the bone are curiously remodelled as a consequence of the 

 enormous inflation of the various otic elements, and corresponding 

 reduction of the squamosal. In the absence of investigations into 

 the development of the temporal bone, I can only describe it as 

 it appears in the adult animal, using the terms " mastoid," "pe- 

 trosal," and "tympanic" in their current acceptation, without 

 reference to the primitive otic elements. Respecting the squamosal 

 there is no difficulty ; the petrosal appears under its usual con- 

 dition of a bulla ossea. I regard as "tympanic" the inflated 

 vesicle in whicli the meatus auditorius is pierced, which appears 

 as a tubular prolongation of the bulla in the nearest allied family, 

 Geomyidse. The rest of the inflation, forming the greater part of 

 the occipital surface and much of the roof of the cerebral cavity, 

 I shall simpty designate as "mastoid." 



The two temporal bones together are little less bulky than all 

 the rest of the skull. Excepting the reduced squamosal, all the 

 elements are subjected to extraordinary inflation, as well as pe- 

 ripheral enlargement; they appear as papery vesicles, light, thin, 

 and smooth, without ridges or angles, inclosing extensive antra, 

 the collective capacity of which is scarcely less than that of the 

 whole brain-cavity. These vaulted walls are supported by delicate 

 bony arches or trabecule within, and imperfectly partitioned into 

 several cavities by thin septa. The mastoid constitutes the greater 

 part of these bulging masses. Its backward protuberance occupies 

 nearly all the occipital surface of the skull on each side, the occi- 

 pital bone being reduced to a narrow margin of the foramen 

 magnum, sunk in an emargination between the mastoid and its 

 fellow. On the top of the skull the mastoid similarly expands, 

 filling the whole of the area usually occupied by the squamosal, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 311 



and forming the greater part of the roof of the brain-case. Thus 

 we have the curious circumstances of extensive mastoideo-occi- 

 pital suture on top of the skull, and still more prolonged mas- 

 toideo-parietal suture for the whole of the longest side of the 

 right-angled parietal articulates with the mastoid ; while so great 

 is the anterior prolongation of this same bone, that a small part 

 of it fairly enters the orbit, at the back outer corner of the latter. 

 This extensive line of sutures with squamosal, parietal, and occi- 

 pital bones respectively is distinct throughout; but the boundaries 

 of the mastoid with other otic elements can only be inferred by 

 certain lines of impression which appear to mark it off from pe- 

 trosal and tympanic. Another point is to be considered here: the 

 flattened and entirely superior portion of the mastoid (that which 

 lies in the ordinary site of a squamosal) is incompletely distin- 

 guished from the occipital portion of the same bone by a line of 

 impression running straight across from the margin of the meatus 

 auditorius to the median line of the skull ; and this mark corre- 

 sponds to a nearly complete bony wall within the bone, which 

 partitions off one sinus from another. This may be hereafter 

 found to indicate the respective parts which certain primitive otic 

 elements take in the formation of the "mastoid." 



The petrosal, i. e., the bulla ossea, is less peculiar than the mas- 

 toid ; it is not more inflated than in very many mammals, and is 

 chiefly remarkable for its contact with its fellow, and for the ex- 

 tensive uninterrupted fissures which separate it both from basi- 

 occipital and alisphenoid. In general shape it is conoidal, mode- 

 rately swollen, with the apex of the cone produced and curiously 

 curved toward the median line of the skull, where it meets its 

 fellow, forming a bony bridge beneath the basisphenoid. The 

 claw of the hamular pterygoid rests against the end of the petro- 

 sal ; and close to this there is an abutment of a piece of the sphe- 

 noid ; otherwise, there is a great fissure betwixt it and the sphe- 

 noid. It is only in contact with occipital elements by means of 

 the flange-like exoccipitals ; the whole extent of the basioccipital 

 being separated, as just said, by a large fissure. Posteriorly it is 

 confluent with the mastoid, with imperfect indication of the pre- 

 cise line of union ; exteriorly it is continuous, without appreci- 

 able indication of original distinction, with the special inflation 

 in which the meatus is situated. This papery vestibule I presume 

 to be analogous with the tubular meatus externus in Geomyidse 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



and elsewhere ; the orifice is large, subcircular, and simply a hole 

 without raised brim, pierced in the back upper corner of the bulb. 

 Anteriorly the tympanic bulges so far as to form part of the orbit. 

 "While this special inflation is not otherwise distinguished from the 

 general bulla ossea than by a slight constriction, it is remarkably 

 divided off, above and behind, from the mastoid, by a strong line 

 of impression, of which I shall say more presently. 



Coincidently with the hypertrophy of these otic elements of the 

 temporal, the squamosal is peculiarly reduced in extent, and 

 pushed into the orbit, to which it is almost entirely restricted. 

 It is simply a small irregularly shaped plate of bone lining the 

 back part of the orbit, with a slight spur just exceeding the orbi- 

 tal brim in a little notch between corners of the frontal and pa- 

 rietal bones. The squamosal remains long discrete from all its 

 surroundings. In full-grown though youngish animals the squa- 

 mo-sphenoidal sutures may be readily traced that with the ali- 

 sphenoid just below the glenoid cavit}^ that with orbito-sphenoid 

 within the orbit. The zygomatic process of the squamosal is of 

 peculiar character: instead of a slender curved spur reaching 

 around to grasp the malar, there is a short abrupt heel appressed 

 against the tympanic, and to the roughened face of this heel the 

 clubbed end of the needle-like malar is affixed. The relation of 

 the parts is such that the zygoma appears to articulate behind 

 with the tympanic it actually has an abutment against that bone, 

 though no real articulation with it. 



From the lower back edge of the squamosal a curious thread of 

 bone starts off and occupies the deep groove already mentioned 

 as separating the tympanic from the mastoid. No break from the 

 squamosal can be seen in this thread, which curls around the ori- 

 fice of the meatus, still in the groove mentioned, and ends by a 

 slightly enlarged extremity below and behind the meatus, exactly 

 in the position of an ordinary " mastoid process." I am uncer- 

 tain of the meaning of this. The end of this ligule or girdle of 

 bone thus encircling the t}^mpanic is in the site of the postero- 

 lateral angle of the skull in Geomyidee, in which such angle is 

 formed by a corner of the squamosal; and the inference is self- 

 suggestive that this delicate bony strap may really be squamosal 

 an edge of the squamosal persisting in situ after the rest of 

 that bone has been crowded down into the orbit by the encroach- 

 ment of the mastoid. Such a view, however, will bear further 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



scrutiny. Even if a slender spur of actual' squamosal does run 

 out into the tympano-mastoid groove, it does not follow that the 

 whole of the fold in this groove is squamosal; and certainly the 

 enlarged extremity of this ridge, behind the meatus, has every ap- 

 pearence of an ordinary mastoid process. 



Next after the squamosal, the occipital bone suffers most from 

 the enlargement of the otic elements ; it is singularly restricted 

 in extent, and presents itself in unique shape, compressed between 

 the swollen mastoids. All the lateral occipital suturation is with 

 the mastoid, excepting the basioccipital. The occipital lies in 

 three planes, nearly at right angles with each other. The basi- 

 occipital is horizontal, as usual upon the floor of the skull; the 

 exoccipitals, with probably part of the supraoccipital, are perpen- 

 dicular, behind ; the rest of the supraoccipital is horizontal again, 

 on top of the skull. The basioccipital is wedge-shaped, and offers 

 nothing very peculiar, excepting its entire disconnection from the 

 petrosals between which it lies ; its sphenoidal articulation is just 

 behind the joined apices of the petrosals. Exoccipitals appear as 

 a pair of flaring flange-like processes, just outside the condyles, 

 appressed against the otic capsules. The foramen is very large, 

 subcircular, and mostly in the perpendicular plane of the bone. 

 After inclosing this orifice, the bone rapidly contracts as it rises 

 to the top of the skull ; this part is marked with a sharp perpen- 

 dicular median ridge, and the edges of the bone being affected 

 in coming into apposition with the swelling mastoids, there results 

 a pair of deep narrow fossce upon the face of the bone. The por- 

 tion of the supraoccipital which mounts the top of the skull to 

 there lie horizontal, almost immediately forks to embrace a small 

 shield-shaped interparietal bone between its prongs. The ends 

 of these prongs touch posterior corners of the parietals 



The sphenoid bone is of rather small extent, owing to the situa- 

 tion of the squamosals in the orbit. It is widely fissured from 

 the petrosals. The alisphenoid is very short; its termination 

 may be seen in the jagged suture with the squamosal ; but short as 

 it is, it only misses taking part in the mandibular articulation, since 

 it extends to the margin of the glenoid. The orbito-sphenoid is 

 comparatively smaller still, the place it occupies in Geomyidse 

 for instance being here largely occupied by the squamosal. 

 The spheno-palatal suture may be traced in young specimens 

 with a zigzag but still in general transverse course, from the side 

 21 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



a little behind the maxillary alveolus across the middle line of 

 the skull. There is no vertical orbital plate of the palatal bone ; 

 it all lies flat, and extends forward on the palate, wedge-shaped, 

 but with square termination to a point opposite the first true 

 molar. A backward spur of this bone forms with its fellow a 

 sharp median process. There are various foramina already noted. 

 The pterygoids are small claw-hammers abutting at their extremity 

 against the petrosals. 



The parietals are nearly right-angled triangles, with one side 

 of mutual apposition along the median line of the skull, another 

 transversely articulating with the frontal, and the hypothenuse 

 postero-exterior, for the mastoid suture. The back corners meet 

 the prongs of the occipital and slightly embrace the interparietal. 

 The outer corner is prolonged into a spur which attains the brim 

 of the orbit. And here the remarkable construction of the orbit 

 b} r an unusual number of bones, may be noted. Following the 

 brim of the orbit around we find zygomatic process of max- 

 illary; lachrymal; frontal; spur of parietal ; back upper corner 

 of squamosal ; front end of mastoid ; fore bulge of tympanic ; 

 zygomatic heel of squamosal; whole of malar, and so back to 

 maxillary. 



The portion of the frontal which appears on the surface of the 

 skull is keystone-shaped and straight, broad behind to articulate 

 with both parietals, narrowing anteriorly with nearly straight 

 edge, and in front irregularly tranverse to accommodate its several 

 rostral sutures. It sends a sharp spur on either hand into a 

 recess between the maxillary and intermaxillary, and each inter- 

 maxillary causes a shorter, more obtuse re-entrance ; the middle 

 part articulating with the nasals is tranverse. The orbital por- 

 tion of the frontal is a simple plate suturing behind with the 

 orbito-sphenoid and squamosal, and in front with maxillary and 

 lachrymal. The latter is of considerable extent, and much exca- 

 vated ; its edge appears upon the surface of the skull, margining 

 the back of the zygomatic process of the maxillary. 



The malar is very peculiar. In allied rodents, this bone is a 

 stout arch, and very short, in consequence of the close approxima- 

 tion of the ends of the z3^gomatic processes of both maxillaiy 

 and squamosal. But here there is, to all intents, no such squa- 

 mosal process, and that of the maxillary ends abruptly : so the 

 malar is a long bone, to complete the arch ; it is a straight rod, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



of thread-like tenuity, with the fore end slightly elbowed and 

 sharpened to lie by oblique suture against the maxillary, on the 

 inner side, and the hind end slightly clubbed to suture by a 

 roughened flat surface with the heel of the squamosal ; and such 

 are the relations of the parts, that the malar seems to run against 

 the otic capsule. The depressed position of this bone, which lies 

 down on the level of the palate, has been already noticed. 



The maxillary bone, with a general shape and connections 

 which scarcely require notice, has two peculiarities ; one of these 

 is the singular position of the "ante-orbital" foramen; here a 

 large circular perforation at the anterior border of the side of the 

 bone, altogether remote from the orbit. It lies above and even in 

 advance of the incisive foramina. Its fellow is only separated by 

 the width of the compressed muzzle ; there is a thin partition, 

 probably ethmoidal, between them. The other peculiarity of the 

 mastoid is the unusually extended and vaulted zygomatic plate, 

 which thus roofs over a considerable part of the orbit. This in- 

 flated lamina suddenly comes to a point where the malar joins it. 

 Its suture with the frontal, or the surface of the skull, is a 

 straight line. 



The incisive foramina, in Geomyidw, are wholly in the inter- 

 maxillaries ; in Dipodomys they are formed by both bones, the 

 maxillaries bounding about a third of their periphery. The 

 nasal spur of the intermaxillary extends upon the forehead a 

 little way beyond the ends of the nasals ; while a sharp process of 

 the frontal separates it from the maxillary. The alveolar 

 portion is remarkably curved backward, to suit the trend of the 

 incisors, and a strong alveolar plate separates the teeth for about 

 half their length. 



The nasals are chiefly notable for their length and tenuity ; they 

 reach far beyond the incisors ; the back half is linear and super- 

 ficial ; anterior to this, where the intermaxillaries bend down, 

 they become somewhat volute, prolonging a semi-tubular snout. 

 Within, delicate turbinal scrolls are seen extending to the orifice. 

 The nasals are supported, nearly to their ends, by small inter- 

 maxillary spurs. 



The mandible remains for consideration. This bone is remark- 

 ably small, considering the size of the rest of the skull, and is 

 further notable for its slight elevation posteriorly, its short 

 incompleted symphysis, and the thickness of the body of the 




Q 



16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



bone. The coronoid process is remarkably small, not nearly at- 

 taining the level of the condyle, at the root of which it appears as 

 a minute backward sloping prickle-like spur. The condyloid 

 ramus itself is small, compressed and oblique. The principal 

 feature of the bone is an immense flaring lamina which arises as a 

 verge upon the back part of the lower border of the body of the 

 bone, and expands obliquely outward and upward, with a peculiar 

 twist. This plate-like process is longer than the condyloid ramus 

 itself, and ends in an acute point, so that the back of the jaw 

 appears two-pronged. There is a deep pit between the alveolus 

 and the root of the coronoid plate. The mental foramen is con- 

 spicuous upon the outside of the jaw close to the incisors. The 

 small size and lowness of the jaw is seen in the peculiarly retreat- 

 ing chin of the species ; and it is probable, especially to judge 

 from the condition of the coronoid, that the biting power is com- 

 paratively slight. 



The vertebral formula of Dipodomys ordii is given by Baird as 

 7 cervical (with anchyloses of 2d, 3d, and 4th), 12 dorsal, 9 lumbar, 

 4 sacral, and 28 caudal, = 60 ; there is doubtless an individual 

 variability of several of the caudal segments. There are five 

 metacarpals and metatarsals, though the inner one of each is 

 reduced. There are perfect clavicles. The tibia and fibula are 

 united below. 



C. Dental Characters of Dipodomys. 



The dentition of Dipodomys is simple. Of the four molar teeth 

 above and below, the anterior one is a premolar, being preceded 

 by a deciduous tooth, which, however, is long persistent. This 

 one is rooted and with a more complicated crt>wn than the rest ; 

 the molars proper are rootless and perennial. In both jaws, the 

 set of the molars is very oblique ; in the upper, the anterior tooth 

 bends strongly backward, and the posterior one somewhat forward; 

 thus bringing their crowns in close apposition, though their roots 

 are divergent. It is the same in the lower jaw, though the greatest 

 obliquity there is in the strong forward set of the posterior tooth. 

 The teeth are all simple compressed prisms, broader in the trans- 

 verse than in the fore and aft direction. In the worn state, the 

 crowns of the two intermediate molars are simply elliptical ; that 

 of the anterior molar is rather a spherical triangle, with convex 

 posterior, and two concave anterior sides; the back molar is small 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



and subcircular. It is much the same in the lower jaw. The 

 crowns show simply the brim of enamel, with a depressed island 

 of dentine. In the unworn state, however such as may be 

 observed in specimens with the milk tooth still in position there 

 are some decided differences. The outer border of the two anterior 

 teeth shows a deep nick, where there is a reentrant fold of the 

 enamel ; and the back molar has a similar indentation of the inner 

 side. This diminishes regularly with the continuous growth of 

 the incisors, until the crowns are ground down beyond the extent 

 of the infolding, when it ceases to appear and the plain elliptical 

 form of the crown is assumed. 



The incisors are small and delicate, in both jaws, contrasting 

 with the stout scalpels of Geomyidae. The superior pair are much 

 compressed, being narrower than deep, and strongly curved. Their 

 face is marked by a deep median groove, and the outer portion is 

 rabbeted away, so that the groove is visible in a profile view. The 

 teeth emerge from the sockets some distance apart, separated by 

 an intervening alveolar plate, but they are convergent, and their 

 tips are in close contact. The under incisors, no larger than the 

 upper ones, are of much the same general character, but are not 

 grooved, the smooth faces being simply rounded off. Their roots 

 make a slight protuberance at the outside of the base of the con- 

 dyloid ramus. 



D. External Characters of Dipodomys. 



The general configuration of this animal is lithe and graceful, 

 indicating agility and incessant activity. The bod} r is slender, 

 the neck distinct; the head large with tapering muzzle; the eyes 

 and ears are prominent; the fore limbs small and neat, indicating 

 predominance of prehensile over merely gressorial faculties ; the 

 hinder limbs are of great size, as perfectly saltatorial as those of 

 a kangaroo or jerboa; and the tail is longer than the body. Not- 

 withstanding the saltatorial nature of the animal, there is none of 

 that preponderance of organization of the hinder parts witnessed 

 in the kangaroo, with its massive haunches and enormous tail ; 

 the whole body is equally slender, the leaping power being mani- 

 fested in the enlargement of the hind limbs alone ; the tail, too, is 

 slender throughout. 



The head is distinguished from the body by a well-defined 

 cervical constriction. The broad high occipital region clips sud- 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



denly clown to the nape. The upper corners of the head, upon 

 which the ears rest, are elevated and wide apart; the top of the head 

 has in general a triangular shape, tapering from each ear to the 

 snout with but slight swelling in the orbital region, and is quite 

 flat across, with the most gentle longitudinal curve in the frontal 

 region, and nearly straight nasal profile. The muzzle is acuminate, 

 and much produced, appearing longer still in consequence of the 

 remarkably small retreating chin. The muzzle is entirely hairy, 

 excepting a small nasal pad ; this shows a median depression, but 

 there is no cleft of the upper lip, the whole of which is thickly 

 clothed with stout hairs, that form a dense fringe drooping over 

 and concealing the superior incisors. The low 7 er lip is thickened 

 and densely hairy ; and there is also a hairy commissure of the 

 upper lip behind the superior incisors, so that these teeth are shut 

 out of the true (mucous-lined) buccal cavity. For the rest, the 

 lips seem to come together vertically instead of horizon tall}', 

 closing the oral aperture sidew r ays, though of course the buccal 

 cavity or mouth proper shuts as in ordinary mammals. All this 

 is essentially the same as in the Geomyidse ; and further, as in 

 these last, there is a great pouch on each side of the head, entirely 

 disconnected with the mouth, formed of a duplication of ordinaiy 

 integument, hairy throughout. These sacs will admit the first 

 joint of one's little finger ; they run the whole length of the head, 

 but not beyond to the shoulder. In relative capacit}^ the} r about 

 equal the least developed pouches of Geomyidse those of G. his- 

 pidus for instance. The opening is crescentic; the inner limb of 

 the semilune being the skin of the jaws, while the outer limb is a 

 free fold or border arising on the side of the snout half way between 

 nostrils and incisors and a little back of both, and curving loosely 

 around to the side of the under jaw near its middle. 



The whiskers are extremelj r numerous, and some of them are 

 very long. A bunch of short fine ones springs from the extremity 

 of the snout, on each side, by insensible lengthening of the fringe 

 of hairs that clothe the upper lip. Others grow in the usual site, 

 and the longest of these usually exceed half the total length of the 

 body. There are other long slender bristly hairs in weak clumps 

 about the eyes and ears, and a bunch of short antrorse bristles 

 springs from the chin. The eyes are large and prominent, in life 

 remarkably soft and expressive, in striking contrast to the little 

 piggish peepers of the Geomyidse; in consequence of the production 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



of the muzzle, they are situate much nearer to the ears than to the 

 nose, and rather above a line connecting the two. The ears, 

 similarly, are large and "leafy," appearing the more prominently 

 because they rest upon the most protuberant part of the skull. 

 When pressed out flat, the auricle is nearly orbicular. In the 

 natural state, the fore border is largely folded over, the duplica- 

 tion extending from the extreme root to the highest point of the 

 ear, and representing about one-third of the width of the ear. This 

 fold causes a slight pointing of the ear. The posterior border is 

 more rounded than the anterior ; and within its base is developed 

 a large conspicuous obtusely angular antitragus, so broad that its 

 inner edge is extensively overlapped by the fold of the anterior 

 border of the auricle. A fringe of long hairs springing from the 

 base of the anterior fold is directed backwards over the antitragus : 

 otherwise the auricle is closely and completely pilous on both 

 sides, the hairy clothing of the open part of the concavity being 

 heavier than that on the back of the ear. 



The fore limbs are shortened, in sacrifice of locomotive ability 

 to increase of prehensile facult}'. The arm and forearm are stout ; 

 the latter tapers very abruptly and contracts to a delicate wrist 

 and very small hand. There are four perfect digits, and a rudi- 

 mentary thumb ; the longer digits rather exceed, even excluding 

 their claws, the length of the hand proper (metacarpus) ; the 3d 

 and 4th are approximately equal in length and longest ; the 2d 

 and 5th are successively reduced a little in length ; the 1st is a 

 mere stump; its claw a knob; the other claws are well formed, 

 slender, compressed, acute, little curved, nearly as long as their 

 respective digits. The back of the whole hand is pilous, and 

 longer hairs fringe the sides of the digits ; but the palm is naked, 

 minutely tubercular throughout, these numberless little elevations 

 showing no recognizable special distribution. The hand ends 

 behind with an enormous smooth bulb, a little to the inner side, 

 and with a smaller external bulb, likewise smooth, separated from 

 the main one by a hairy isthmus. 



The hinder limbs offer the opposite degree of development- 

 While the fore, from the elbow outward, is only a fourth of the 

 total length, the corresponding measurement of the hind limb, 

 that is, from the knee outward, is three-fifths or more of the whole 

 length, and the hind foot alone is about one-third of such dimen- 

 sion. There is no noticeable bulkiness of the haunches, but the 




320 PROCEEDINGS OE THE ACADEMY OF 



hams are massive, flattened-conoidal, suddenly contracting at the 

 lower third, where the cms is of much less calibre than the foot. 

 There is a prominent heel, and obvious tendo Achillis. The 

 metatarsus is subcylindrical, widening to a broad foot with strong 

 dio-its. The whole foot reminds one of a rabbit's ; a resemblance 

 heightened by the dense furring of the whole sole, excepting a 

 small calcaneal tuberosity. There are four perfect digits, of 

 which the 3d is the longest, the 4th and 2d are successively a little 

 shorter, and the 5th is much shorter still; while the 1st is a mere 

 rudiment, entirely removed from the rest, nearly half way up the 

 foot. This bears a stumpy claw ; the other claws, though small, 

 are well formed, stout at base, compressed, little curved, and acute. 

 The tail exceeds the head and body in length, even without the 

 penicillate tuft of hairs at the end, which projects an inch or more 

 beyond the vertebrae. It is of somewhat quadrangular shape, the 

 flattening being especially appreciable on the under side, and is of 

 nearly uniform calibre throughout, springing directly from the 

 body without any basal enlargement, and but little taper at the 

 end. It is closely and uniformly clothed with rather stiffish 

 hairs for most of its length, the hairs gradually lengthening on 

 the further half into the well-formed terminal brush. 



The pelage differs from that of the allied genus Perognathus in 

 its softness, length, and fineness, and has a silky gloss in life. It 

 also lies witli extreme smoothness on the colored areas of the 

 body ; the hairs are plumbeous basally, as usual ; on the white 

 parts they are unicolqr to the roots. 



In the male, during the rutting season, there is an immense 

 perineal enlargement, strictly circumscribed from neighboring 

 parts, due to the turgidity of the virile organs within. The anus 

 presents in the centre of this enlargement with the sheath of the 

 penis just in front, quite prominent. There is a comparatively large 

 os penis. In the female the anal and genital orifices are in still 

 closer relation ; the ostium vaginas is prolonged in front into a 

 dependent lobe, occupying the site of the penial sheath of the 

 male. 



The pattern of coloration of Dipodomys is peculiar and diag- 

 nostic of the genus the striped tail and white band across the 

 hips are not found elsewhere. All the upper parts are fulvous or 

 tawny brown, closely lined with fuscous to a greater or less 

 extent and intensity. Some specimens, with the least dusky, are 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



very light colored a pale yellowish cinnamon ; others approach 

 mouse color, but even in the darkest specimens the decided ful- 

 vous shade appears at least upon the sides. All this colored por- 

 tion is plumbeous beneath, excepting a little space along the 

 middle of the sides, where basally white hairs have the tawny 

 tips. All the under surface of the animal is snow-white to the 

 roots of the hairs. The line of white begins on the side of the 

 muzzle and runs along the side of the head, including the pouch ; 

 the entire fore limb is white ; the stripe rises a little on the side 

 of the belly, and thence runs along the middle of the outside of 

 the hind limb from the knee to the heel, sending a sharp white 

 stripe from the knee across the haunches to the root of the tail. 

 The hind foot is white, with a dusky stripe along the sole. The 

 whiskers are partly black, partly colorless ; their conjoined bases 

 make a conspicuous black spot on each side of the muzzle. There 

 is some whitishness in most cases sometimes altogether wanting 

 about the eye, and a white patch just back of the ear. The front 

 of the ear is sometimes light. The tail is dusky-slaty, or sooty- 

 brown, or even blackish, with a broad, firm white stripe on each 

 side from base to near the tip. At the extreme base, the white 

 usually encircles the tail ; at the other end, the color of the tuft is 

 altogether indeterminate ; sometimes the white lateral stripes give 

 out before reaching the end, leaving the tip entirely dark ; some- 

 times the white extends to the very end of the brush, cutting off 

 the dark altogether; and moreover, the white ma} 7 encroach upon 

 the under side, cutting off the dark from more than half the tail ; 

 oftener, the brush is mixed dusky and white. Thus the tail ma} 7 

 end either white or dark, or a mixture of both. It is as variable 

 in this respect as the tail of a skunk. The eyes are lustrous 

 black ; the nose pad and palms flesh colored ; the claAvs pale. 



In old museum specimens, long exposed to the light, the above 

 description may not be verifiable as regards any of the darker 

 markings and shades mentioned ; for all the colored portions of 

 the fur finally fade to a dull, pale brownish-j-ellow, or even dingy 

 yellowish-white. Under such circumstances, even the rich pur- 

 plish chestnut of a mink, for example, ends in ding} 7 whitish. 



Having thus fully exposed the general characters of the ani- 

 mals of this genus, it remains to consider the mode in wdiich and 

 extent to which the genus has become differentiated into recog- 




322 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



nizable forms, if there be more than one. Various species have 

 been proposed and recognized. As these rest mainly upon size 

 and proportions, these points will be first discussed. 



The following tables of measurements of a series of Dipodomys, 

 fresh and alcoholic, will serve to show whether or not the two spe- 

 cies, commonly supposed to be distinguished by size and propor- 

 tions, intergrade in these respects. The specimens are arranged 

 without reference to locality, according to the chief point in ques- 

 tion, namely, length of tail. 



Measurements. 



Current 

 Number. 



4970 

 S436 

 4S71 

 4970 

 8437 

 947S 

 4970 

 4970 

 4971 

 7349 

 7341 

 2627 

 2626 

 262S 

 1072.i 

 7348 



Locality. 



Cape St. Lucas. . . . 

 Ft. Whipple, Ariz 

 Cimarron, N. M. . 

 Cape St. Lucas. . .. 

 Ft. Whipple, Ariz 



(Unknown) 



Cape St. Lucas.... 



(Unknown) 



Platte Valley 



Ft. Heading, Cal. 



"California" .. 



Mouterey , 



Ft Tejon, Cal, 

 "Rocky Mts.". 

 Average 



Sex 



d 

 J 



2 

 ? 



d 

 ' 

 ? 

 d 



From tip of Nose to Tail to end of 



$ 

 d 

 d 



d 

 V 

 ? 





0.90 



i "66 



0.85 



1.00 

 0.83 

 0.95 



90 



0.90 

 090 

 SO 



1.00 

 1.00 

 0.95 

 0.92 



m 



1.45 



1.55 

 1 35 



1.40 

 1.40 

 1.50 

 1 45 



1.40 

 1.35 

 1.25 



1.60 

 1 60 

 1.45 

 1.44 



1 55 

 1.90 

 1.75 

 1.45 



1.55 

 1.50 

 1.60 

 1.55 



1.60 

 1.55 



1.40 



1.75 



1.S0 

 1.70 

 1.61 



3.50 

 4 25 

 4.50 

 3.50 

 4.50 

 4.75 

 3 75 

 3.75 

 3 75 



4.50 

 3.35 

 3.25 

 5 00 

 5 09 

 4.25 

 4.50 

 4.06 



5.00 

 5.00 

 5.00 

 5.25 

 5 25 

 5.50 

 5.75 

 5 75 

 5.75 

 5.75 

 5.75 

 5 80 

 600 

 6.10 

 6.75 

 7 00 

 7.00 

 5.79 





6 00 



5 75 



6.25 



6 75 

 6.75 

 6.75 

 6.50 

 7.00 



7 00 

 7.75 

 7 75 

 S.00 

 6.85 



L'gth of 



1.35 

 1.55 

 1.55 

 1.40 

 1.50 

 1.60 

 1.40 

 1.40 

 1.45 

 1.60 

 1.55 

 1.60 

 1.60 

 1.60 

 1.70 

 1.70 

 1.70 

 1.58 



Nature of 

 Specimen. 



Ale. 



Fresh. 



Ale. 

 tt 



Fresh. 

 Ale. 



The foregoing table of measurements of only 17 specimens, all 

 adult, suffices to prove an uninterrupted gradation in size of every 

 part of the body and its members. There is no break whatever 

 in any of the absolute dimensions. The specimens range, by mi- 

 nute fractions of the inch, from 3.25 to 5.00 inches in length of head 

 and body, averaging about 4.00. The tail vertebrae range from 

 5.00 to 7.00 inches, averaging about 5.75 ; with the hairs the tail 

 is from 5.75 to 8.00 inches, averaging a little less than 7.00. The 

 hind foot runs from 1.35 to 1.70, settling at an average of 1.58. 

 It will be observed that the lengths of tail and feet bear no con- 

 stant ratio to each other, some specimens with relativeby smallest 

 feet having relative^ the longest tails. It will further be evident 

 that absolute lengths of tail and feet are not indicative of geo- 

 graphical limitations ; for the specimens which are arranged in 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



323 



the table with reference to absolute length of tail-vertebras (with 

 which absolute length of feet is approximately correspondent) 

 show complete intermixture of localities. Measurements of a 

 hundred or a thousand specimens would of course only tend to 

 place these facts in stronger light. It may be safely stated as a 

 fact, then, that differences in absolute size, either of the body or 

 of any of its members, are not available for distinction of two 

 species; and furthermore, that no set of absolute dimensions is 

 correlated with geographical distribution. 



Nevertheless, one cannot fail to be struck, in examining the 

 table, with the extraordinary discrepancy in relative length of 

 the body and tail. In No. 48*71, for example, the tail (vertebrae) 

 is only half an inch longer than the head and body (4.50-5.00) ; 

 that is to say, it is but one-ninth of the head and body length 

 longer. In No. 2626 the tail is two and three-quarter inches 

 longer than the head and body ; that is to say, almost twice as 

 long. It would appear improbable that such unusual difference 

 as this should not signify something more than mere individual 

 variability. In order to discover whether or not the -proportion- 

 ate (as distinguished from absolute) dimensions of body and tail 

 may not lead to some tangible result, the following table is con- 

 structed, in which the same specimens are arranged geographically. 

 It is necessary to exclude four of them however (Nos. 9418, 1349), 

 from unknown localities, together with the two respectively marked 

 " California" and " Rocky Mts.," as I have reason to believe that 

 these indications of locality are not reliable. 



Measurements. 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



This second table, as far as it goes, leads to some tangible and 

 practical results. More specimens would undoubtedly modify 

 the exact figures, but would, I think, only confirm the general 

 statement, that there is a decided difference in relative length of 

 head and body and of tail, between specimens from the interior 

 and those from the coast region. This substantiates, in effect, the 

 broad distinction established by Baird in 1857, though the details 

 given by that author require qualification. 1 



In the animals from the interior, with an average length of 

 nearly 4.50 inches, the tail is scarcely or not an inch longer than 

 the body ; that is to say, it is about one-fourth as long again as 

 the head and bodj^. 



In the coast region specimens, with an average length of less 

 than 4 inches, the tail is about two inches longer than the head 

 and body ; that is to say, it is if anything more than half as long 

 again as the body. 



The feet do not present any very tangible characters. We find 

 them of all sizes coupled with different extremes of tail length. 

 Nevertheless it will be observed that the Cape St. Lucas specimens 

 alone of the coast series present small feet, under 1.50 ; and that 

 without these, the coast series would show a length of foot of 1.60- 

 1.70, thus correlated with the greater length of tail. 



To these data mciy be added some others, tending to substan- 

 tiate the differentiation of the forms of the genus. The western 

 animal averages smaller, and of more slender build, with larger 



1 M. N. A. 1858, p. 409. "AVhatever the number of species, all hitherto 

 detected in North America belong to the two following sections : 



"Section I. Hind foot not exceeding 1.50 inches, usually appreciably less ; 

 about one-third the length of head and body. Tail vertebrae about 1 times 

 the length of head and body in nature ; rarely exceeding 5 inches, never 5. 

 D. ordii. 



"Section II. Hind foot, 1.60 inches, sometimes more ; always considerably 

 exceeding 1.50 ; almost half as long as head and body in the first specimens. 

 Tail vertebras If times the length of head and body, always exceeding 5| 

 inches; usually from 6 to 7 inches. D. phillipjn, D. agilis." 



The proportions of body and tail here laid down I verify exactly, though 

 the limits of extremes given require to be enlarged. On the contrary, the 

 statements made respecting the feet do not hold upon examination of more 

 material. In fact the Cape St. Lucas are the shortest-footed animals of the 

 whole series : and in one very large Texas specimen (dry), not given in the 

 table, the foot is almost 2 inches long. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



ears, and longer limbs, and especially longer tail. It is darker in 

 color, the prevailing tone being a mouse-brown overcast with 

 tawny or fulvous. The animal from the interior is larger, and 

 noticeabby more stoutly built, with smaller ears, and shorter limbs, 

 and particularly shorter tail. It is lighter in color, the prevailing 

 tone being the peculiar tawny or fulvous of the genus, deepened 

 somewhat on a dorsal area with mouse-brown. 



These are simply observed matters of fact, not open to question. 

 Certain differences which actually exist, as well as the insensible 

 blending of these differences, may both be fairly signalized by the 

 following formulae of nomenclature and description, in which the 

 various names which have been proposed are relegated to their 

 proper place, covering diagnosis of typical (i.e. extreme) charac- 

 ters, and indication of the region in which such form more espe- 

 cially prevails : 



Dipodomys phillipsi, 1 Gray. 



Dipodomys phillippii, Gray, Kep. Brit. Assoc. 1841, 70; Ann. Mag. N. 



H. vii. 1841, 521. Real de Monte, Mex. (Type of genus.) Gray, 



Am. Journ. Sci. xlii. 1842, 335. Wagn., Suppl. Schreb. iii. 1843, 



295. -Le C, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. vi. 1853, 224. (Sacramento 



Valley, Cala.) Gieb., Saug. 1855, 600. (Compiled.) Baird, M. N. 



A. 1857, 442. (California, etc.) Coop, and Suckl., P. R. R. Rep." 



xii. 1859, Mamm. pp. 100, 127. 

 Dipodomys pMlippi, Schinz., Syn. Mamm. ii. 1845, 93. (Compiled from 



Gray.) 

 Dipodomys phillippsii, Aud. and Bach., Q. N. A. iii. 1853, 137, pi. 130. 



(From Gray's type.) 

 Dipodomys phillipsii, Gray, List. Mamm. Br. Mus. 1843, 120. Gerr., Cat. 



Bones Br. Mus. 1862, 173. Gray, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1868, 200. 

 Dipodomys phillippii, Baird, P. R. R. Rep. x., 1859, Williamson's Route, 



Mamm. p. 82. 

 Macrocolus halticus, Wagn., Abh. K. Baier. Akad. xxii. 1845, 319; Arch. 



f. Naturg. 1846, 172. Giebel, Saug. 1855, 599. (Compiled.) 

 Dipodomys agilis, Gamb., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. iv. 1848, 77. (Los 



Angeles.) Le C, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. vi. 1853, 224. A. 



and B., Q. N. A. iii. 1854, 339. (Compiled). Gieb., Saug. 1855, 



600. (Compiled.) Bd., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1855, 334 (San 



Diego) ; M. N. A. 1857, 414, pi. 9, f. 1. Gray, P. Z. S. 1868, 201. 

 Dipodomys heermanni, Le C, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1853, 224. 



(Sierra Nevada.) 



1 This name is found variously spelled by authors, as well as by Gray 

 himself; but if, as stated by Gray, the species was named after John Phil- 

 lips, the rendition here adopted appears to be most correct. 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Dipodomys heermannii, Baird, M. N. A., 1857, 415. (Compiled.) 

 Dipodomys hermannii, Gray, P. Z. S. 1868, 201. (Compiled.) 

 Dipodomys wagneri, 1 Le C, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1853, 224. Bd., 



M. N. A. 1857, 415. (Compiled.) Gray, P. Z. S. 1868, 201. 



(Compiled.) 



Hab. Pacific region at large, from Washington Territory to 

 Cape St. Lucas; Nevada; and portions of Mexico (Real del Monte, 

 Phillips). Specimens examined from Fort Walla- Walla, Cape 

 St. Lucas, and numerous localities nearly throughout Upper and 

 Lower California. 



Ghai's. Small : rather under than over four inches in length of 

 head and body, Avith slender shape, large ears, long limbs, and 

 especially long tail. Tail vertebras 2 inches (more or less) longer 

 than the head and bodj r , bearing a proportion of about (rather 

 more than less) 1.50 to 1.00. Coloration heavy: upper parts rather 

 dark mouse-brown or even dusky in general tone, lightened, espe- 

 cially on the sides, with the peculiar tawny shade of the genus. 



This animal served as the type of the genus, described by Gray 

 in 1840. It figures in various treatises, mainly under compilation. 

 Audubon gave an excellent illustration, taken from the type speci- 

 men. Macrocolus halticus of Wagner, described soon afterward, 

 is, as suggested by both Gray and Baird, undoubtedly the same 

 animal, though no mention is made of the pouches. Some other 

 unquestionable synonyms are cited above. 



Dipodomys phillipsi ordi, Woodh. 



Dipodomys ordii, "Woodh.," LeC, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. vi. 1853, 

 224. (Notice of Woodhouse's type). Woodh., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. vi. 1853, 235; Sitgr. Rep. Expl. Zuni and Col. R. 1853, 50, 

 pi. 4. (El Paso, Texas.) Aud. and Bach., Q. N. A. iii. 1854, 317. 

 (Compiled.) Baird, M. N. A. 1857, 410, pi. 5, f. 1 ; pi. 21, f. 1 ; pi. 

 51, f. 1, 2. Baird, P. R. R. Rep. x. 1859, Gunnison's and Beck- 

 with's Route, Mamm., p. 8. Baird, P. R. R. Rep. x. 1859, Whip- 

 ple's Route, Mamm. p. 14. Hayd., Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc. xii., 

 1862, p. 147. (Niobrara R.) Gerr., Cat. Bones Br. Mus. 1862, 175. 

 Coues, Am. Nat. i. 1867, 395. (Habits.) Gray, P. Z. S. 1868, 

 201. Allen, Proc. Bost. Soc. xvii. 1874, 42. (Yellowstone.) 



Dipodomys montanus, Baird, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. vii. 1855, 334. 



Hab. Rocky Mountain region at large, and somewhat eastward, 

 from the region of the Yellowstone into Mexico. Limit of southern 



1 The ascribed locality is obviously and unquestionably erroneous. The 

 label "James Reed, South Carolina," like that on some other specimens of 

 various animals I have seen, indicates the donor and his residence. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



extension not precisely known. Specimens examined from the 

 Yellowstone, Powder, Niobrara, Platte, and Arkansaw Rivers ; 

 from various localities in Texas, and nearly throughout New 

 Mexico and Arizona; from Sonora, Durango, and Coahuila, Mexico. 



Chars. Larger : rather over than under 4 inches in length of 

 head and body, with (comparatively) stout shape, small ears, 

 short limbs, and short tail. Tail vertebras one inch (more or less) 

 longer than the head and bod}', bearing a proportion of about 

 (rather less than more) 1.25 to 1.00. Coloration light ; upper parts 

 nearly uniform tawny-brown of the shade peculiar to the genus, 

 darkened a little with mouse-brown on a dorsal area. 



This form of the genus appears to have been first noted by Dr. 

 Woodhouse, in 1853, all the other names being referable to the 

 other. His specimens were from El Paso. The known limits of 

 its dispersion were enlarged in 1857 to include the region of the 

 Platte; while specimens still more recently examined show that 

 it extends northward to the Yellowstone at least, further east in 

 Dakota, Nebraska, and Kansas than was formerly supposed, and 

 even reaches to Arkansas, where specimens were lately procured 

 at Fort Cobb. 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



July 6. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirteen members present. 



A paper entitled " Descriptions of new Species of American Land 

 and Fresh-water Shells," by Jas. Lewis, M.D., was presented for 

 publication. 



On Orthosia ferrugineoides. The Secretary read the following 

 communication from A. R. Grote : 



Mr. Morrison gives the synonymy of Orthosia ferrugineoides 

 on page 66 of the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia, I think quite incorrectly. Whether bicolorago, 

 Guen., is this same species or not seems doubtful. On the other 

 hand, spurcata, Walk., is founded on blackish specimens. In the 

 British Museum, the ordinary ferrugineoides was determined as 

 bicolorago; hence in earlier papers I have spoken of the species 

 under this name. If they are the same, then bicolorago has priority 

 for the species. A name proposed for a variety cannot obtain 

 against a name proposed for a species. The most important 

 reference, that of the species to its proper genus, is incorrectly 

 omitted by Mr. Morrison. Orthosia ralla is, also, incorrectly 

 made synonymous. O. ralla is a smaller species with pellucid 

 yellowish, unclouded hind wings. The t. p. line is shaded and 

 dentate in ralla, dotted in ferrugineoides. The subterminal line 

 is represented by distinct interspaceal spots in ralla ; in its alby it 

 is linear, faint, shaded, of the usual undulate shape. The fine 

 wings are more angulate in ralla, and the under surface paler and 

 less notieeabby marked. The synonymy of ferrugineoides, until 

 we have more certainty as to what bicolorago is, will stand as fol- 

 lows: 



Orthosia ferrugineoides. 



Xanthia ferruginea var. ferrugineoides, Guen., Noct. i. 398. 



Xanthia bicolorago, Walk., C. B. M. Noct. 464. 



Orthosia ferrugimoides, Grote, Bull. Buff. Soc. Nat. Sci. 2, 124. 



var. spurcata, Walk., C. B. M. Noct. 749. 



? Xanthia bicolorago, Guen., Noct. i. 397. 



Hab. Eastern and Middle States and Canada. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



July 13. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Eighteen members present. 



A paper entitled " Fasti Ornithologke Redivivi, No. 1, Bar- 

 tram's Travels," by Elliott Coues, M.D., was presented for pub- 

 . lication. 



Pelvis of Hadrosaurus. Prof. B.- Waterhouse Hawkins re- 

 ferred to his remarks of last summer regarding the position of 

 the so-called clavicles of Hadrosaurus. Having drawn a figure 

 of the skeleton, he explained the impossibility of disposing of 

 those bones in the position of clavicles. A comparison of the 

 skeleton of Hadrosaurus with that of the Ostrich was made, and 

 the conclusion drawn that the ischiatic position assigned to the 

 bones in question in the restoration made for the Smithsonian 

 Institution was unwarranted. 



Prof. Cope stated that he had lately obtained a metatarsal bone 

 of Lselaps which confirmed the views of Prof. Hawkins as ex- 

 pressed in his restoration of that animal made during his engage- 

 ment at the Central Park, New York. 



July 20. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Nineteen members present. 



Papers entitled " Report on the Reptiles brought by Prof. 

 James Orton from the Middle and Upper Amazon and Western 

 Peru," by Edw. D. Cope ; and " Note on the Ichthyology of 

 Lake Titicaca," by Edw. D. Cope, were presented for publication. 



Influence of Nutrition on Form. Mr. T. Meehan remarked 

 that the influence which nutrition, in its various phases, had on 

 the forms and characters of plants was an interesting study; and 

 in this connection he had placed on record in the Proceedings of 

 the Academy, that two species of Euphorbia, usually prostrate, 

 assumed an erect growth when their nutrition was interfered with, 

 by an JEcidium a small fungoid parasite. He had now to offer 

 a similar fact in connection with the common Purslane Portulaca 

 oleracea one of the most prostrate of all procumbent plants, 

 which, under similar circumstances, also became erect. 

 22 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The Drosera as an Insect Catcher. Mr. Thomas Meehan 

 referred to a discussion before the Academy recently in which the 

 question occurred, whether those plants which had contrivances 

 for catching insects made any nutritive use of the insects so 

 caught. It had been suggested that experiments made in England 

 with plants under bell-glasses and free from insects, were quite as 

 healthy as those which had had insects regularly applied to them, 

 and this was argued to prove that the plants were not actually 

 insect eaters. 



In a recent botanical trip to New Jersey, he had found in 

 Atlantic County, about five miles from Hammonton, three species 

 * of Drosera; D. filiformis, D. longifolia, and D. rotundifolia, all 

 growing near each other in immense quantity. All of these species 

 had insects of numerous kinds attached to them. Large numbers 

 of plants had no insects. The species with the largest number of 

 plants having insects on them, were in the order as above named. 

 The insects are held by the pin-like glandular hairs, which seem 

 to lean in from all sides towards the insect as if, from its 

 struggles to escape, drawn in and thus securel} 7 holding it. The 

 remains of the insects which have been caught, seem to continue 

 attached to the plant for a long time; and thus can be seen which 

 plant has had the benefit of insect food if food it be. Xo differ- 

 ence, however, in health or vigor could be traced between those 

 which had had insects and those which had had none. Mr. Meehan 

 did not, however, think that these observations, or experiments 

 founded on anything they suggested, would settle the question of 

 nutrition. Among ourselves there were discussions as to whether 

 people were healthier as vegetarians or flesh eaters, while figures 

 showed little difference, if any, either way. A plant might feed 

 on insects when it could get them, and yet be no healthier than 

 those which had to get along as other plants did. It was neces- 

 sary, however, to the theory advanced by those who believed the 

 insect catching were really insect eating plants, to show that some 

 superior advantages favored the insect catchers. It was believed 

 that the power to catch insects was a developed one a power not 

 possessed by their predecessors and developed according to the 

 law of natural selection. Unless insect catching can be shown to 

 be an especial advantage, there was nothing to select. At any 

 rate, his observations on the Drosera onl} r showed that all the 

 plants, whether with insects or with none, were equally healthy. 



Some observers have recorded that there is a motion of the 

 leaves as well as of the glandular hairs in the effort to catch 

 insects; only one fact was noticed bearing on this question, one 

 leaf of a Drosera filiformis had coiled over towards its upper 

 surface from the apex, and held an insect in its folds. 



On the Indian Tribes of Costa Bica. Mr. Gabb called attention 

 to the recently published work of Bancroft on the Indian tribes of 

 the Pacific slope, and stated that, while he did not profess to 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



criticize it in other respects, he felt bound to protest against all of 

 that portion relating to the Indians of Costa Rica. 



Heretofore, nothing reliable had been published on the subject, 

 because nothing was known with certainty. The scanty literature 

 of the subject has been based rather on untrustworthy reports 

 than on personal observations. Mr. G. has recently completed a 

 very detailed exploration of the region known under the political 

 name of Talamanca in Costa Rica, and has devoted much time and 

 care to the subject of its Indianology. The map of Bancroft is 

 worse than useless. He places the "Talamancas" in the northeast 

 portion of the Republic, the " Blancos" in the centre, exactby where 

 the 150,000 of the Spanish inhabitants live, "Orotiiians" along the 

 coast of the Gulf of Nico}-a, the "Valiertes" and "Ramas" in 

 Talamanca, and the "Guetares" to the south of the " Orotinans." 

 The "Guatusos" are the only tribe that is placed with even 

 approximate correctness. The " Valientes" live in the Province of 

 Chiriqui, State of Panama, the "Ramas" belong in Nicaragua at 

 about the spot where the name is repeated. The "Blancos," so 

 called from Pico Blanco, a mountain in their country (Talamanca), 

 consist of three tribes scattered over southeastern Costa Rica. 

 The two tribes placed on the Pacific coast have no existence, but 

 south of where they are located by Mr. Bancroft, there are two 

 semi-civilized tribes, the Terrabas and the Borucas (or Brunkas). 



The Guatusos are implacably hostile to civilized men, and are 

 nearly unknown. Popular report makes them partially white, and 

 they have been said to be descended from English buccaneers. It 

 is not impossible that they may have a slight admixture of Spanish 

 blood, derived from the inhabitants of the town of Esparza, who 

 were once driven from their homes by the English. Even this, 

 however, is doubtful, and the most reliable and cautious observers 

 who have penetrated the country or who have seen the few captives, 

 taken out from time to time, agree that they are pure Indians in 

 every respect 



The Blancos, as they are called by the Spaniards, belong to three 

 distinct tribes, divided both geographically and by their languages. 

 They are the Bri-bris, inhabiting nearty all of the watershed of the 

 Tiliri or Sicsola River, the Cabecars, living on the Coen River, and 

 scattered over the region from that point to the frontiers of civili- 

 zation in Costa Rica, and the Tiribis, living to the southeast of the 

 Bri-bris, on the Tilorio River. The west coast Indians are the 

 Terrabas, an offshoot of the Tiribis, and who still retain a tradition 

 of their emigration from the old home of their tribe to the more 

 hospitable plains of Terraba, and the Borucas, who occupy a 

 simple village, and who seem to be the remains of the original 

 population of this region. These west coast Indians are partially 

 civilized, live under the municipal and ecclesiastical control of a 

 missionary priest, and nearly all speak Spanish. Their languages 

 are being rapidly corrupted by Spanish, and are practically under- 

 going the process of replacement. Some of the Borucas have 




332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



already forgotton how to count in their own language, and use 

 only the Spanish numerals. 



On the other hand, the people of the Atlantic slope, protected 

 by their nearly impenetrable country, and their active hostility to 

 the Spanish race, have retained their languages in much greater 

 purity, and their customs almost unaltered from the times of their 

 ancestors. Only since the beginning of Mr. Gabb's exploration 

 has the government of Costa Rica obtained a political foothold in 

 the country. The hostility against the Spaniards does not extend 

 to the other white races. English speaking people have been 

 trading with them for about half a century, have always treated 

 them fairly, and are respected. A red beard is the best passport 

 in the country. The most influential man among them is Mr. John 

 Lyon, a Baltimorean, who has been living among them as a trader 

 for the last eighteen years, and is more respected and looked up 

 to than the native chiefs. He is the only white man who has ever 

 established himself in the country, and the exploration owes its 

 success to his active co-operation and sympathy. 



The physical characters of the Indians are a short stature, rather 

 thick set. The average height of the men is about 5 feet 4 inches, 

 that of the women a couple of inches less. Tall men are extremely 

 rare, and there is probably not a person in the country over 5 feet 

 10 inches in height. The hair of the head is coarse, black, and 

 abundant, while it is almost entirely absent on all other parts of 

 the person. Men and women alike are accustomed to carrying 

 heavy loads resting on the back and suspended from the forehead 

 by a strip of bark cloth. In this way they carry with ease from 

 50 to 75 pounds an entire day, and some have been known to carry 

 5 arrobas (125 pounds) ten or a dozen miles in a day over rough 

 mountain trails. 



Their dress is very simple. The men wear only a breech cloth, 

 a strip of cloth, a foot wide, and seven or eight feet long, wound 

 around the loins. The women wear a petticoat made of a piece 

 of cloth wound round the hip's, reaching from the waist to the 

 knees and suspended by a belt. Some of the latter wear an 

 extremely short chemise or jacket, more for ornament than for 

 any use that it serves in covering the person. The men, especially 

 those who have been out of their country, are gradually adopting 

 trowsers or shirts, although the two garments rarely go together. 

 The women braid their hair, parting it in the middle, and exhibit 

 considerable taste in its arrangement. Formerly, the men wore 

 their hair very long, gathered into a queue, wound tightly with 

 cloth, and rolled into a flat mass at the back of the head. Others 

 disposed of it in two braids hanging down the back like the 

 Spanish American women. Now, however, most of them wear it 

 cut rather short. 



The men often decorate their heads with a tiara of feathers, and 

 both sexes paint their faces in simple patterns on the cheeks, and 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



Wear necklaces. Of the latter, the women wear glass beads, while 

 the men use teeth of animals, principally the canine teeth of tigers. 

 Mr. Gabb stated that he had submitted to the American Philo- 

 sophical Society a detailed report of his observations of the Costa 

 Rica Indians, with vocabularies of their several languages. 



Compressed Peat. Mr. Roberts called attention to a piece of 

 artificially compressed New Jersey peat, prepared at the People's 

 Iron Works, Philadelphia, by Mr. John Cooper. 



The peat in a dry brown powder was fed into a cylinder and 

 subjected to pressure by means of a drop hammer weighing 1500 

 pounds, falling a distance of 11 inches. The result was a compact 

 mass of a black color, having a conchoidal fracture, and the lustre 

 of bituminous coal. 



July 27. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirteen members present. 



The following resolution was unanimously adopted: 



Resolved, That the Acadenry of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 

 cordially invite the American Association for the Advancement of 

 Science to meet in Philadelphia in 1876. 



Geo. Milliken, Jas. B. England, and Howard A. Kelly were 

 elected members. 



Papers entitled "Report on the Reptiles brought by Prof. 

 James Orton from the Middle and Upper Amazon and Western 

 Peru," by E. D. Cope; and "Note on the Icthyology of Lake 

 Titicaca," by E. D. Cope, were ordered to be published in the 

 Journal. 



The Committee to which they had been referred recommended 

 the following papers to be published. 




334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OE 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF AMERICAN LAND AND FRESH- 

 WATER SHELLS. 



BY JAMES LEWIS, M.D. 



In ray paper on the Land Shells of East Tennessee, published 

 in the Amer. Journ. Conch, vi., 188, may he found some remarks 

 upon certain shells treated on page 191 as a large variety of Helix 

 Sayii. The shells upon which the remarks here referred to were 

 based, were mutilated specimens, in which some of the charac- 

 teristics of the species they represented were not clearly attested. 

 Since the publication of the above-mentioned paper additional 

 specimens have been secured, which leave nothing to be inferred 

 as to the true character of the species which is now unhesitatingly 

 presented as new. 



Mesodon [Helix] Chilhoweensis, Lewis. 



Shell of large size, umbilicated, convex-depressed ; epidermis, 

 pale russet, scarcely paler below; whorls six to seven with numer- 

 ous and somewhat coarse stria? ; suture well impressed; peristome 

 white, well developed and widely reflected, with a, faint rudimen- 

 tary tooth indicated near the umbilical region ; parietal wall with- 

 out any indication of a tooth; in other particulars the shell may 

 be compared with the species hitherto known as Helix Sayii. 



Chilhowee Mountain, East Tennessee, 1869. 



Tusquita Bald Mountain (6600 feet elevation), East Tennessee. 

 1873. 



The following are the dimensions of two specimens from the 

 last-named station. 



1st. Greatest diameter 1.65 inches = 42 mm. Least diameter 

 1.32 inches = 33.8 mm. Elevation (parallel to axis) 1.03 inches 

 = 26.3. 



2d. Greatest diameter 1.57 inches = 49.9 mm. Least diameter 

 1.28 inches = 32.7. Elevation 0.94 inches = 23.8 mm. [See 

 Plate 12, figures 5, 6, 7, Amer. Journ. Conch, vi.] 



Remarks. This species will be found uniformly to differ from 

 H. Sayii (a large variety of which it was supposed to be), by 

 having one more lohorl, a more broadly reflected lip, the extremely 

 rudimentary character of the tooth when present on the lip, and 

 by the entire suppression of the parietal tooth, without reference 

 to the larger size of the shell. The species seems to be confined 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



to high elevations on the mountains in east Tennessee and western 

 North Carolina. I am indebted to Miss A. E. Law for all the 

 specimens of this species I have seen. 



Zonites acerra, Lewis. 



In the paper quoted above, on page 190, mention is made of a 

 shell supposed to be a variety of Zonites ligerus of W. G. Binney. 1 

 The shells when first brought to notice were supposed to be 

 undescribecl, but having characters which belong equally to de- 

 missus and ligerus (Binney) it was treated as a variety of ligerus, 

 though the name acerra was suggested as applicable if new. 



I am induced by a careful study of this form to regard it as 

 having quite as valid a claim to be regarded a distinct species as 

 demissus has, it being different from that species in several im 

 portant particulars which, so far as I have traced them, seem to 

 be constant. The notes and figures given, relative to this species, 

 render a formal description of the species unnecessary. 



The shell has a cubic capacity more than four times that of 

 demissus, being less pale, usually more translucent, and the opaque 

 portions have a decided Canary-yellow tint. 



This shell is found in the elevated lands in east Tennessee and 

 western North Carolina, and no doubt has been circulated as 

 demissus. 



Among the numerous land shells collected by Miss Law, in 

 Knox and Monroe Counties, Tennessee, I found a few specimens 

 of a Zonites very like Anthony's cerinoidea with this difference 

 the shells have two internal lamellar teeth, in some cases arising 

 obliquely within the aperture and pointing outwardly, differing 

 somewhat in form from the teeth of gularis. The question arises, 

 is cerinoidea dimorphic as to the presence or absence of the internal 

 teeth ? I have numerous examples showing that the internal teeth 

 of gularis are by no means constant. If the shells I here com- 

 pare to cerinoidea are really a variety of that species, they may be 



1 I speak of "Zonites ligerus of "W. G. Binney," because I am aware that 

 there are traditions respecting the species now generally accepted as ligerus 

 and intertextus, which call for a different nomenclature. The shells now 

 known as intertextus are the traditional " Helix ligera" of Say ; the tradition 

 undoubtedly having its origin with Mr. Say, who surely ought to have the 

 credit of knowing his own species. This understanding of the matter makes 

 it quite easy also to recognize the claims of Mr. Lee to the species he 

 described as Helix Wardiana. 




336 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



distinguished as var. cusjridata. If, however, they should finally 

 be considered distinct, the name may be retained as characterizing 

 the species. 

 Vitrina latissima, Lewis, Plate 23, fig. 7. 



Shell very much depressed, thin, fragile, translucent, polished; 

 whorls three, very rapidly expanded, with the incrimental lines 

 quite conspicuous and crossed by a few microscopic, impressed, 

 revolving lines ; aperture nearly equal to half the area of the base 

 of the shell, very oblique, unsymmetrically-ovate ; peristome thin 

 and acute, the columellar origin arising from the axis of the shell ; 

 axis imperforate ; color of the shell amber-brown. 



Transverse diameter 0.68 inches = 17.3 mm. Shorter diameter 

 .47 inches = 11.9 mm. Elevation .27 inches = 7.1 mm. 



Tusquita Bald Mountain, at an elevation of 6600 feet. Miss A. 

 E. Law. 



A single specimen of this interesting species is all that is at 

 present known. It is remarkable for the entire absence of eleva- 

 tion of the apical whorl above the surrounding whorls, and for its 

 generally depressed and laterally expanded form. The color of 

 the shell is very like that usually exhibited by translucent speci- 

 mens of Helix [Triodopsis] palliata. The form of the shell forcibly 

 reminds one of the marine shells usually designated Sigaretus per- 

 spectivus. It will probably be found on several of the mountain 

 peaks of east Tennessee at high elevations. 



Melantho obesus, Lewis, MSS., Plate 23, figs. 5, 6. 



W. G. Binney, in " Land and Fresh-water Shells of North 

 America," Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, No. 144, page 

 47, fig. 95. No description. 



Shell ventricose and disposed to be gibbous ; whorls, 6 to 7, 

 rounded, the last dilated ; suture well defined and deeply im- 

 pressed ; apex only moderately elevated ; epidermis smooth and 

 olivaceous ; lines indicating well-defined periods of growth strongly 

 marked and black ; surface of the shell traversed with numerous 

 impressed revolving lines ; in some localities the revolving lines 

 are mingled with narrow, interrupted, rufous tracings that impart 

 a ferruginous tint to the epidermis ; opercle ovate gibbous; sub- 

 stance of the shell only moderately thick, with a tendency in 

 favorable localities to form callosities on the parietal portion of 

 the posterior angle of the aperture ; aperture ample and tends to 

 assume a subquadrate form. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 337 



Length 1.33 inches = 34 mm. Greatest width 0.95 inches = 24 

 mm. These dimensions are subject to variation of an exti'erae 

 character. 



Ohio Canal, Columbus, Ohio. H. M. Moores. (Fig. 5.) 



Michigan. 0. M. Dorman. (Fig. 6.) 



In treating Melantho, there seems to have been numerous 

 instances in which species have been misunderstood. M. obesas 

 has been confounded with shells occurring in New York with 

 which apparently it has only very remote relations. 



In my most recent examinations of Melantho, as it occurs in a 

 limited portion of the Erie Canal, near Mohawk, N. Y., I detect 

 three species associated, each constant in its characters without 

 manifesting any tendency to hybridism. A fourth species may 

 possibly be inferred from a division of the various forms I have 

 hitherto regarded as varieties of integer. 



To make this clear to the reader, I have thought proper to offer 

 a series of figures illustrating the characteristics by which I have 

 made a division. 



The prevailing form is illustrated by Fig. 1 of this series. It 

 represents a shell, the whorls of which are very regularly rounded 

 without an}*- tendency to assume gibbous forms. The opercle of 

 the adult shells of this form is very transverse and narrow, resem- 

 bling that of the typical ponderosus of the Ohio River. The 

 texture of the shell is less solid than the gibbous forms exhibit, 

 and the epidei'mis is much paler. The form of Melantho is here 

 illustrated by a specimen more slender in its proportion than a 

 tj^pical shell should be. 



The gibbous forms, as may be inferred from what has been 

 written above, are more solid in their texture and have a darker 

 epidermis. They are usually also more regularly smooth, though 

 gibbous. I have selected three examples as illustrations of the 

 features this form of Melantho displays. Fig. 2 may be regarded 

 as approximating the least gibbous phase, and would probably be 

 regarded as one of the shouldered specimens of which DeKay 

 wrote. Fig. 3 is a form which W. G. Binney confounds with obesus, 

 from which it is sufficiently distinct not to require further notice 

 at this time. Fig. 4 is an extreme form in which the aberrant 

 tendencies of this race of mollusks has been exaggerated by 

 abnormal conditions. These and many other forms in my collec- 

 tion, all part of one series, go far to show that it is unsafe to 

 attempt to decide the limits of species from a few specimens. 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



FASTI ORNITHOLOGIiE REDIVIVL NO. I. BARTRAM'S 'TRAVELS.' 



BY ELLIOTT COUES. 

 " Come square me this by points of compass apply the rule of three." 



William Bartram, naturalist, son of John Bartram, botanist, 

 travelled extensively in the Carolinas, Georgia, and Florida, during 

 the latter part of the XVIIIth century, and wrote and caused to 

 be printed a book in which his journeys were traced, and his 

 observations recorded. Which book is entitled as follows, to wit : 



" Travels ] through | North & South Carolina, | Georgia, | East 

 & West Florida, | the Cherokee Country, the extensive | Territo- 

 ries of the Muscogulges, | or Creek Confederacy, and the | Country 

 of the Chactaws; | containing | an account of the soil and natural | 

 productions of those regions, toge- | ther with observations on 

 the | manners of the Indians. | Embellished with copper-plates. 



| | By William Bartram. | Philadelphia: | printed by James 



& Johnson, | m,dcc,xci." 1 vol., 8vo., 1 p. 1., pp. i-xxiv, 1-522, pll. 



Another edition of which work was issued at Dublin, 1793, being 

 a reprint, E. and O.E.; and further proof of the appreciation of 

 the author's labors was given in the translation of the work into 

 German, and its publication in that language at Berlin, in 1*193, 

 as the xth vol. of the Magasin von merkwvirdigen neuen Reise- 

 beschreibungen, &c. 



Bartram was a naturalist, in the broadest and best sense of the 

 term, whose acquirements in that line were fairly abreast of the 

 times in which he lived, and whose example might be followed 

 with profit if not with pleasure also. He was a traveller of the 

 energy and perseverance that most successful explorers possess. 

 He was a man of unimpeachable veracity, scrupulously exact in 

 every circumstance of detail. He was a thoughtful critic of nature 

 for the love of it ; and that he was a judge of human nature is 

 attested by his observations on the Indians: witness his graphic 

 account of the vr&y the Indian maidens (?) used to steal their 

 lovers' rum, under pretence of taking a drink, to peddle it out to 

 these untutored sons of the forest at a premium, when the supply 

 ran low. To his other accomplishments he added that of humble 

 devout Christianity, which was a frequent element in the contem- 

 plation of Nature, among thoughtful and sincere men, before she 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. . 339 



had been much subjected to the scalpel and the microscope those 

 might}' props of the theory of evolution, which now threatens a 

 revolution in revelation. 



The work reflects the man ; but upon its general merits, or 

 those of its author, there is no excuse for dwelling. The point 

 that chiefly concerns lis at present is, that Bartram, being a natu- 

 ralist, was necessarily part ornithologist. In point of fact, his 

 love of birds, it is evident in his writings, was second only to that 

 love of plants which was his by right of heritage from the botanist, 

 his father; and, as another matter of fact, his book is discontinu- 

 ously ornithological throughout. 



The book would be called rare by no bibliographer, but neither 

 is it very common now-a-days. It belongs to that large semi- 

 scarce class, which eveiy one interested in the subjects treated 

 knows of, but which most persons quote, upon occasion, at second 

 hand, until, grown wiser by experience in blundering, the}' feel 

 the force of the scholar's maxim, "always verify quotations!" 



The uncommonness, then, of the book has doubtless had some 

 influence upon its author's rather depauperate ornithological 

 laurels. Then again, some of his good seed (as we shall see in the 

 sequel) fell where the fowls (one in particular that might be men- 

 tioned) came and ate it. Once more, and worst of all, there hangs 

 about Bartram the unsavory suspicion of a dreadful crime for 

 the guilt of which some better ornithologists than Linnaeus have 

 been sent to unquotable Coventry I mean polynomialism. So it 

 falls out, that Bartram, qua ornithologist, has not been appreciated. 



But the count against him for nearly a century is not a true 

 bill ; the verdict must be, if not reversed, radically modified. In 

 brushing some of the dust off the volume of travels, as far as 

 ornithology is concerned, I shall take occasion to prove that 

 according to the articles of nomenclatural war, the customs and 

 precedents in such cases established, and the Rules of the British 

 Association, Bartram has not received his due. That is to say, 

 if we owe him anything, we have not paid him enough ; if we owe 

 him nothing, we have, nevertheless, given him some tribute. For 

 we have let him doze by the hearth-stone of nomenclature, in his 

 polynomial undress, and wakened him up occasionally when we 

 wanted some little binomial favor, like Vultur atratus, or Corvus 

 floridanus or G. carnivorus, for example. This is justice, neither 

 to him nor ourselves. The greatest stickler of all for the conven- 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



tionalities of nomenclature will admit, that if any of Bartram's 

 names are available, so are all of his identifiable binomials. No 

 point is clearer than this ; and equally indisputable are the follow- 

 ing propositions: 



1. Bartram wrote subsequent to 1*766. 



2. He was effectually, systematically, and on principle binomial, 

 occasionally lapsing. But if his exceptional slips are to count 

 against him, then not a few great modern ornithologists must also 

 be ruled out ; among whom ma}' be instanced Schlegel, Bonaparte, 

 Sundevall, and others, in whose writings are found trinomial names, 

 the three terms of which succeed each other consecutively without 

 intervention of any kind of punctuation to bring about even a 

 semblance of binomiality. 



3. Several of Bartram's names are in current usage, unchal- 

 lenged, and many others are among ordinary synonymatic quota- 

 tions. 



4. In It 91, Bartram published a descriptive catalogue of the, 

 to him then known, Birds of the Eastern United States, 215 in 

 number, in which list are introduced various species for the first 

 time named binomially ; some of which names are already in use, as 

 just said, but more of which have been ignored, or only used in 

 attribution to later writers, especially Wilson. 



It is not expected to prove Bartram's availability to the satis- 

 faction of everybody ; but the fact that he must be either ruled 

 out altogether, or fully accepted, is demonstrably indisputable. 

 Upon this premise, we set ourselves to enquire into the nature of 

 his claims upon our recognition. 



At various pages of his work, Bartram describes, at length and 

 with particularity, several species of birds, to which he applies 

 names, such as Vultur atratus, Meleagris americana, and Tan- 

 talus jrictus. These accounts leave no question open but that 

 touching the author's method of nomenclature. 



But the main ornithological interest of the work centres in the 

 List Bartram gives. If Wilson was the father of American Orni- 

 thology, as he has been styled, Bartram, back to whom the pedi- 

 gree of many names is traceable, was certainly the grandfather of 

 that vigorous offspring. His statement of United States' birds is 

 one of the earliest of those which are of any special account, and 

 which treat exclusively of this subject, while its extent and general 

 pertinence entitle the author to rank among the fathers. His 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



practical availability, however, for nomenclatural purposes, is 

 another question, to be decided mainly upon our interpretation of 

 his summary of 215 birds as "a mere list of names," or as a bond 

 fide descriptive catalogue. 



What is a description ? It is any intelligibly indicative phrase. 

 It may be extended to a treatise, or be comprised in a single word. 

 Diagnosis is condensed description, to exclusion of non-essential 

 particulars. Length of terms is obviously no criterion. Defini- 

 tion, diagnosis, description, are practically convertible terms. No 

 one can fail to perceive that Bartram has treated every one of his 

 species with description, diagnosis, or definition, and left no doubt 

 of his meaning in the majority of cases. Even in the cases of his 

 shortest definitions, it is only by shutting our eyes, with a tight 

 squeeze too, that we can fail to perceive that names such as 

 Bartram uses, are, like names in general, originally, the essence 

 of description. And in any event the " mere name" theory can 

 only be urged as an objection to a part of Bartram's species, some 

 of them being described at length, to the letter as well as in the 

 spirit of the law. No one can claim that, e. g., Bartram's nos. 105, 

 or 274, or 181 , are not " described," or that they are precluded from 

 recognition, because they occur in an article where some other 

 species may not be described. Nor is there any essential differ- 

 ence between the mode of treatment of these species, and of no. 93 

 for instance, where Bartram says " Fringilla fusca, the large 

 brown white throat sparrow." Nor, to take an extreme case, as 

 no. 100, has any one any doubt what Bartram meant in saying 

 " Sturnus stercorarius, the cowpen bird ?" 



For those who cling to the "mere name" theory, there is an 

 argument in reserve. As Dr. Sclater has well observed, in treating 

 of zoogeographical areas, the distribution of a species is as much 

 one of its attributes, as any matter of form, size, or other physical 

 property. Description, of course, may be based upon any quality 

 that pertains to the object. Now Bartram prefaces his list with 

 a set of formularized descriptions of geographical distribution, 

 migration, or nidification, which he has caused to apply severally 

 and individually to every one of his species, 1 by the use of certain 

 perfectly well understood typography. The fact, therefore, is 



1 Excepting no. 161, where no asterisk appears, by evident oversight or 

 typographical error. 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



established, that Bartram's birds are described as well as named. 

 The accuracy and pertinence or the reverse, of his descriptions, is 

 immaterial to the point at issue ; his species are simply to be 

 identified, upon the principles applied and by the means employed, 

 in all other cases, by ornithological experts. 



Bartram's method of nomenclature only remains for discus- 

 sion ; and in this matter much might be said pro and con. The 

 gist of the case is, as already said, that he is systematically bino- 

 mial on principle, with occasional lapses, which, however, do not 

 invalidate his system any more than the similar deviations from 

 strict binomiality in the above-mentioned cases of Schlegel or 

 Bonaparte. It is not to the point to argue a difference in intent or 

 meaning as e.g. between Bonaparte and Schlegel 's Loxia curvirostra 

 rubrifasciata, and Bartram's Loxia rostro forficato ; for in either 

 case the trinomial result is the same. In fact, in such cases, it 

 may be replied with greater force, that through ignorance, over- 

 sight, or for other reason Bartram simply failed to give a name at 

 all ; his Loxia rostro forficato, for instance, being described, but 

 not named. This point is at any rate as well taken as the objec- 

 tions to Bartram's binomiality can be. As to the form of his 

 nomenclatural and diagnostic phrases, it may be observed, X,\\qj 

 are in close accord with the custom of the day. " Parus cedrus, 

 uropygio flavo, the yellow rump" (no. 115) is thoroughly en regie, 

 and to claim that " P. aureus vertice rubro, the yellow red pole" 

 (no. 118) is any different, for want of the comma, would be to 

 hang a man's reputation on a punctuation point surely the dis- 

 ingenuous quibble of a pleader, in a great strait. 



It is an evident corollary of what has gone before, that Bartram 

 is entitled to unreserved recognition among ornithologists. Such 

 of his species as are binomially named and fully identified must 

 take their rightful place in the curriculum of synonym atic quota- 

 tion ; and those names which are found to possess the quality of 

 priority must be adopted. Bartram's names are not simply literary 

 curiosities, nor is their examination a mere matter of bibliomania. 

 For the nomenclature of some fifteen or twenty of our commonest 

 birds hangs upon the acceptance or rejection of this author. The 

 case is submitted to the candid consideration of ornithologists. 



In order to the most complete exposition of the case, and that 

 ornithologists may the more readily be enabled to judge for them- 

 selves whether the present advocacy is in a good or bad cause, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



Bartram's List is here reproduced, verb. lit. punct, saving only 

 omission of certain superfluous subheads of his, and insertion of 

 numbers whereby cross-reference with the commentary which 

 accompanies is facilitated. To ensure accuracy, the press-proofs 

 are corrected from the original, not, as usual, from the MS.cop}'. 



[Bartram's Descriptive Catalogue of the Birds of the Eastern 

 United States. (Trav. N. & S. Car. &c, 1791, 1 pp. 2S-296.' J )] 



[p. 288.] 



Being willing to contribute my mite towards illustrating the 

 subject of the peregrination of the tribes of birds of N. America, 

 I shall subjoin a nomenclature of the birds of passage, agreeable 

 to my observation, when on my travels from New-England to New- 

 Orleans, on the Missiippi, and point of Florida. 



Land birds which are seen in Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, 

 N. and S. Carolina, Georgia and Florida, from the sea coast West- 

 ward, to the Apalachian mountains, viz. 



* These arrive in Pennsylvania in the spring season from the 

 South, which after building nests, and rearing their young, return 

 again southerly in the autumn. 



[p. 289.] 



f These arrive in Pennsylvania in the autumn, from the North, 

 where they continue during the winter, and return again the spring 

 following, I suppose to breed and rear their young; and these 

 kinds continue their jo urnies as far South as Carolina and Florida. 



| These arrive in the spring in Carolina and Florida from the 

 south, breed and rear their young, and return south again at the 

 approach of winter, but never reach Pennsylvania or the Northern 

 States. 



| These are natives of Carolina and Florida, where they breed 

 and continue the year round. 



f These breed and continue the year round in Pennsylvania. 



1 The Dublin edition, 1793, contains numerous mere typographical differ- 

 ences, for better or worse. 



2 The pagination of the work is erroneous, in just this place, the number- 

 ing of pp. 289, 290, being repeated, and p. 294 being numbered "492." 

 Curious trap for unwary citators at second hand ! 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



I. f Strix arcticus, capite levi corpore toto niveo, the great white 



owl. 

 2 ^[ Strix pythaules, capite aurito, corpore rufo, the great horned 

 owl. 



3. f Strix maximus, capite aurito, corpore niveo, the great horned 



white owl. 



4. ^[ Strix acclamator, capite levi, corpore grisco, the whoothig owl. 



5. f Strix peregrinator, capite aurito, corpore versicolore, the sharp 



winged owl. 



6. ^[ Strix assio, capite aurito, corpore ferruginio, the little screech 



owl. 



7. || Vultur aura, the turkey-buzzard. 



8. || Vultur sacra, the white tailed vulture. 



9. || Vultur atratus, black vulture, or carrion crow. 



[p. 290.] 



10. 1 Falco regalis, the great grey eagle. 



II. Tf F. leucocephalus, the bald eagle. 



12. * F. piscatorius, the fishing eagle. 



13. Tf F. Aquilinus, cauda ferrug. great eagle hawk. 



Commentary on the foregoing List. 



1. Nyctea nivea. 



2. Bubo virginianus. 



3. Bubo virginianus var. arcticus, Cassin, ex Strix arctica, Sw. & 

 Rich.,F. B. A. ii. 1831, 86, pi. 30. Bartraru's name has priority for this white 

 variety of the B. virginianus, but the term maximus would cause confusion 

 with the European Bubo, besides being antedated in the genus. 



4. Syrnium nebulosum. Strix nebulosa, Forst., Phil. Trans, lxii. 

 1772, 386, 424. 



5. Undetermined ; one of the Oti, whether wilsonianus or brachyotus is 

 uncertain. 



6. Scops asio. 



7. Cathartes aura. 



8. Undetermined. This is Bartram's particular puzzle ; it is elaborately, 

 but not recognizably, described at p. 150. cf. especially Cass., B. Cal. and 

 Tex. i. 1853, p. 59, and Allen, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. ii. 1871, pp. 313 et 

 seqq. 



9. Cathartes ATRATUS (Bartr.) ! The name has already been very 

 generally adopted from Bartram, who fully describes the bird, with accuracy, 

 at p. 152. 



10, 11. Haliaetus leucocephalus, juv. et ad. Description, p. 3. 



12. Pandion haliaetus (carolinensis auct.). Description, p. 3. 



13. Buteo borealis. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 345 



14. ^[ F. gallinarius, the hen hawk. 



15. ^[ F. pullarius, the chicken hawk. 



16. * F. coluinbarius, the pidgeon hawk. 



17. ^[ F. niger, the black hawk. . 



18. * F. ranivorus, the marsh hawk. 



19. * F. sparverius, the least hawk or sparrow hawk. 



(a) 



20. || Falco furcatus, the forked tail hawk, or kite. 



21. || F. glaucus, the sharp winged hawk, of a pale sky-blue colour, 



the tip of the wings black. 



22. || F. subcerulius, the sharp winged hawk, of a dark or dusky 



blue colour. 



23. || Psitticus Caroliniensis, the parrot of Carolina, or parrakeet. 



14, 15. Neither determinable. May be young of No. 13, or some other 

 Buteo, or Accipiter cooperi. 



16. Falco columbarius. 



17. Archibuteo sanctijohannis. (A. lagopus, auct. Amer. ) 



18. Circus hudsonius. 



19. Falco sparverius. 



20. Elanoides forficatus ; F. furcatus, Linn., 1766; F. forficatus, 

 Linn., 1758; Nauclerus furcatus, Vig. ; Nauclerus forficatus, Ridgw., 1874. 



21. Elanus GLAUCUS (Bartr.) ! The description, the ascribed habitat, 

 together with the note of form and habit respecting this species and Nos. 

 20, 22, and their allocation together under Milvus, leave no doubt whatever 

 of Bartram's meaning. This then is the bird commonly known as Elanus 

 leucurus, after Temminck, over which name glaucus has tenable priority. 



22. Ictinia SUBC^ERULEA (Bartr.) ! The same complete identifica- 

 tion obtains in this case as in that of No. 21. The nomenclature is strictly 

 binomial, the description accurate as far as it goes, the habitat correctly 

 given, and the additional evidence irrefragable. The bird is that subse- 

 quently described by Wilson as Falco mississippiensis, and commonly 

 known as Ictinia mississippiensis, which specific name must give way to 

 Bartram's. 



23. Conurus carolinensis. Further account, p. 301. 



[(a) Bartram ranges the next three species under a separate subhead, 

 "Milvus. Kite Hawk." And says in a footnote : " Kite Hawks. These 

 are characterised by having long sharp pointed wings, being of swift flight, 

 sailing without flapping their wings, lean light bodies, and feeding out of 

 their claws on the wing, as they gently sail round and round" a very good 

 diagnosis of a milvine bird.] 

 23 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



24. * Corvus carnivorus, the raven. 



25. || C. maritimus, the great sea-side crow, or rook. 



26. ^[ C. frugivorus, the common crow. 



27. Tf C. cristatus, s. pica glandaria, the blue jay. 



28. ^ C. Floridanus, pica glandaria minor, the little jay of Florida. 



29. ^[ Gracula quiscula, the purple jackdaw of the sea coast. 



[p. 289 bis.2 



30. * Gracula purpurea, the lesser purple jackdaw, or crow black- 



bird. 



31. * Cuculus Caroliniensis, the cuckoo of Carolina. 



24. Corvus CARNIVORUS, Bartr. ! This name was adopted for the 

 American raven in 1858, by Prof. Baird, whose example has been followed, 

 without question or hesitation, by all subsequent American writers who 

 separate it from C. eorax. Yet it is a bare name, unaccompanied by even 

 the semblance of a description, excepting that implied in the use of the 

 asterisk. 



25. Corvus MARITIMUS, Bartr. \C. ossifragus, Wils. This is 

 evidently the fish crow, although it must be conceded that the expression 

 'great' is inapplicable. In marking it ||, Bartram correctly indicates the 

 restriction of its habitat in comparison with that of the Raven or of the 

 Common Crow. 



26. Corvus FRUGIVORUS, Bartr. ! C. americanus, Aud. Here is a 

 case exactly parallel with that of No. 24. "(7. carnivorus, the raven ;" "C. 

 frugivorus, the common crow." To be consistent, authors must either cease 

 to say Corvus carnivorus, or else say Corvus frugivorus too. Consistency 

 .is a jewel. The simple fact is appearing in stronger light as we proceed, 

 that we must either take Bartram en bloc, or give him up altogether. 



27. Cyanurus cristatus. 



28. Cyanocttta FLORID ANA (Bartr.)! Name already in universal 

 employ. 



29. Quiscalus major, Vieill. The expression "purple jackdaw of the 

 seacoast" is perfectly diagnostic, the species being thoroughly maritime, 

 and always called jackdaw in the countries it inhabits. To those to whom 

 such alliterative names as Sialia sialis, Cupidonia cupido, &c, are unob- 

 jectionable, I suggest the propriety of calling this species, Quiscalus 

 quiscula (Bartr.) ! 



30. Quiscalus PURPUREUS (Bartr.) lQ. versicolor, Vieill. Bartram's 

 name has been frequently employed, though of late, for a time, generally 

 superseded by Vieillot's of subsequent date, until restored by Mr. Cassin. 



31. Coccyzus americanus. There is really nothing to show which 

 species Bartram meant by this name, but this is obviously the origin of 

 Wilson's name, for the yellow-billed Cuckoo. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



32. || Picus principalis, the greatest crested woodpecker, having a 



white back. 



33. * P. pileatus, the great red crested black woodpecker. 



34. * P. erythrocephalus, red headed woodpecker. 



35. * P. anratus, the gold winged woodpecker. 



36. ^[ P. Carolinus, the red bellied woodpecker. 



37. ^[ P. pubescens, the least spotted woodpecker. 



38. ^f P. villosus, the hairy, speckled and crested woodpecker. 



39. ^[ P. varius, yellow bellied woodpecker. 



40. ^[ Sitta Europea, gray black capped nuthatch. 



41. f Sitta varia, ventre rubro, the black capped, red bellied nut- 



hatch. 



42. f Certhia rufa, little brown variegated creeper. 



43. * C. pinus, the pine creeper. 



44. * C. picta, blue and white striped or pied creeper. 



45. * Alcedo alcyon, the great crested king-fisher. 



46. * Trochilus colubris, the humming bird. 



47. * Lanius griscus, the little grey butcher-bird of Pennsylvania. 



48. * L. garrulus, the little black capped butcher-bird of Florida. 



32. Campefhilus principalis. 



33. Hylotomus pileatus. 



34. Melaneefes erythrocephalus 



35. colaptes auratus 



Bartram has all his Wood- 

 peckers right, under prior arid 

 tenable names ; and his list 



00 ; includes every one of the East- 



36. Centurus carolinus. _ t . , J 



ern United States, excepting P. 



querulus. No. 32, for "white 



back" read "white beak." 



37. Picus pubescens. 



38. Picus villosus. 



39. Sphyropicus varius. 



40. Sitta carolinensis. 



41. Sitta canadensis. Here is obviously the origin of Wilson's term, 

 S. varia. 



42. Certhia RUFA (Bartr.) ! Nomenclature binomial, and description 

 diagnostic ; the name should stand with those who separate the bird from 

 the European. 



43. Dendrceca PINUS (Bartr.) ! The name is universally attributed to 

 Wilson, but we here see its original source. 



44. Mniotilta varia. "Blue and white" is an evident slip for " black 

 and white." Here and in other cases it is evident that Bartram drew up his 

 list from memory. 



45. Ceryle alcyon. 



46. Trochilus colubris. 



47. collurio borealis ? 



48. collurio ludovicianus. 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



49. * L. tyrannus, the king bird. 



50. * Muscitapa nunciola, the pewit, or black cap flycatcher. 



51. * M. cristata, the great crested yellow bellied flycatcher. 



52. * M. rapax, the lesser pewit, or brown and greenish flycatcher. 



53. * M. subviridis, the little olive cold, flycatcher. 



[p. 290 Ms.] 



54. * Muscicapa cantatrix, the little domestic flycatcher or green 



wren. 



55. * M. sylvicola, the little red eye'd flycatcher. 



56. * Columba Caroliniensis, the turtle dove. 



57. || C. passerina, the ground dove. 



58. f C. migratoria, the pigeon of passage or wild pigeon. 



59. * Alauda magna, the great meadow lark. 



60. f A, campestris, gutture flavo, the sky lark. 



61. f A. migratoria, corpore toto ferrugineo, the little brown 



lark. 



62. ^[ Turdus migratorius, the fieldfare or robin redbreast. 



63. * T. rufus, the great, or fox coloured thrush. 



64. * T. polyglottos, the mocking bird. 



49. Tyrannus carolinensis. 



50. Sayornis fuscus. Muscicapa nunciola is Bartrani's, not, originally, 

 Wilson's. 



51. Myiarchus crinitus. 



52. Contopus virens. Muscicapa rapax is- Bartramian, not originally 

 Wilsonian. 



53. Empidonax acadicus. M. subviridis, Bartr., is quoted in Jardine's 

 edition of Wilson for the M. acadicus of authors, doubtless correctly, 

 because it is the only Empidonax known to breed in Pennsylvania, as 

 indicated by Bartram. 



54. Yireo noveboracensis. Cantatrix, Bartr., olim ; Wils., nuper. 



55. Vireo olivaceus. Wilson transferred the name M. sylvicola to V. 

 flavifrons, Vieill. 



56. zenaidura carolinensis. 



57. ChaMoEpelia passerina. 



58. Ectopistes migratoria. Full account, p. 469. 



59. Sturnella magna. 



60. Eremopiiila alpestris. 



61. anthus ludovicianus. 



62. Turdus migratorius. 



63. Harporhynchus rufus. 



64. Mimus polygi.ottus. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 349 



65. * T. melodes, the wood thrush. 



66. * T. minimus, vertice aurio, the least golden crown thrush. 



67. * Oriolus Baltimore, Baltimore bird or hang nest. 



68. * 0. spurius, the goldfinch or icterus minor. 



69. * Merula flammula, sand-hill redbird of Carolina. 



70. * M. Marilandica, the summer red bird. 



71. * Garrulus australis, the yellow breasted chat. 



72. * Lucar lividus, apice nigra, the cat bird, or chicken bird. 



73. ^[ Ampelis garrulus, crown bird, or cedar bird. 



74. ^[ Meleagris Americanus, the wild turkey. 



75. ^f Tetrao lagopus, the mountain cock, or grous. 



65. Turdus mustelinus. Another case of Bartramian origin of an 

 ascribed Wilsonianism. 



66. Seiurus auricapillus. 



67. Icterus Baltimore. 



68. Icterus spurius. 



69. Not recognized. (Pyranga rubra ?) 



70. Pyranga ^estiva. 



71. Icteria virens (L., 1758). /. viridis, Auct. See p. 302, for further 

 account, where the bird is called Motacilla trocMlus. 



72. LUCAR carolinensis ! That the diagnostic expression "apice 

 nigra," is a slip for "vertice nigra" is seen on reference to p. 299, where 

 further account of the cat bird is given. Bartram's specific name, com- 

 monly ascribed to Wilson, is antedated by the Linnasan ; but his curious 

 generic term is not so easily disposed of. It is exactly coequal with the 

 subsequent Felivox of Bonaparte, and Oaleoscoptes of Cabanis ; and, for 

 those who place the cat-bird in the same genus with the mocking-birds, will 

 be considered also equivalent to Mimus, Boie. What is to be done in this 

 case ? The name is probably meaningless, and in fact, looks like a mis- 

 print ; but if all barbarous and meaningless names are to be excluded on 

 these scores, the revolution in nomenclature would be very great. ' ' Lucar' 1 ' 

 is no worse than " Jotlia" which some years since occasioned the issue 

 between Prof. E. Forbes and Dr. J. E. Gray. Lucar is a very nice point 

 as it stands, and as such is commended to the consideration of ornithologists. 



73. Ampelis cedrorum. Full account, p. 298. 



74. Meleagris AMERICANA Bartr. ! The wild turkey is fully 

 described at pp. 14, 83, at the latter under the name of M. occidentalis. 

 Bartram's name is among the current quotations, and I recently adopted it, 

 subspecifically, as the designation of the Eastern United States form, as 

 distinguished from the Mexican, or true M. gallopavo, Linn. 



75. Undetermined. No Lagopus nor true Tetrao inhabits Pennsylvania. 

 Can Bartram have intended the Cupidonia, which formerly ranged east- 

 ward ? 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



76. f T. tympanus, the pheasant of Pennsylvania. 



77. Tf T. minor, s. coturnix, the quail or partridge. 



78. ^[ Loxia cardinalis, the red bird, or Virginia nightingale. 



79. f L. rostro forficato, the cross beak. 



80. * L. cerulea, the blue cross beak. 



[p. 291.] 



81. * Eraberiza oryzivora, (1) the rice bird.* 



82. J E. livida, the blue or slate coloured rice bird. 



83. *E. varia, (2) the pied rice bird. 



84. J Linaria cms, the painted finch, or nonpareil. 



85. * L. cyanea, the blue linnet. 



86. ^[ Carduelus Americanus, the goldfinch. 



87. f C. pinus, the lesser goldfinch. 



88. f C. pusilus, the least finch. 



89. * Fringilla erythrophthalma, the towhe bird. 



90. "j" F. purpurea, the purple finch. 



91. f F. canabina, the hemp bird. 



92. f F. rufa, the red, or fox-coloured ground or hedge sparrow. 



* (1 2) Are generally supposed to be male and female of the same species 

 (2 I or the pied rice bird the male, and (1) or the yellow, the female. 



76. bonasa umbellus. 



77. Ortyx virginiana. 



78. Cardinalis virginianus. 



79. Loxia Americana. 



80. guiraca caerulea. 



81. dolichonyx oryzivora, 9. 



82. Undetermined ; nor is it evident why this is interpolated between the 

 two sexes of Dolichonyx. 



83. Dolichonyx oryziyora, % . Extended account given, pp. 296-298. 



84. Cyanospiza ciris. Further account, p. 299. 



85. Cyanospiza cyanea. Further account at p. 299. 



86. Chrysomitris tristis. 



87. Chrysomitris PINUS (Bartr.) ! Name commonly ascribed to "Wil- 

 son. 



88. Undetermined. (^Egiothus linaria?) 



89. plpilo erythropiithalmus. 



90. Carpodacus purpureus. 



91. Undetermined. 



92. Passerella iliaca. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



93. f F. fusca, the large brown white throat sparrow 



94. * Passer domesticus, the little house sparrow or chipping bird. 



95. * P. palustris, the reed sparrow. 



9(5. * P. agrestis, the little field sparrow. 



97. f P. nivalis, the snow bird. 



98. * Calandra pratensis, the May bird. 



99. * Steruus predatorius, the red winged sterling, or corn thief. 



100. * S. stercorarius, the cowpen bird. 



101. * Motacilla sialis, the blue bird. (Rebicula Americana, Cat.) 



102. * M. fluviatilis, the water wagtail. 



103. * M. domestica (regulus rufus) the house wren. 



104. Tf *'M. palustris, (reg. minor) the marsh wren. 



105. * M. Caroliniana, (reg. magnus) the great wren of Carolina, 



the body of a dark brown, the throat and breast of a pale 

 clay colour. 



106. * Regulus griceus, the little bluish grey wren. 

 101. f R. cristatus, the golden crown wren. 



93. ZONOTRICHIA ALBICOLLIS. 



94. Spizella DOMESTICA (Bartr.) ! 8. socialis, Auct. In his Obs. 

 Wils., Bp. speaks of Fringilla domestica, Bart., as the S. socialis, but does 

 not adopt it, simply because he referred the bird to Fringilla, in which genus 

 there was already a Linna^an domestica. 



95. Melospiza PALUSTRIS (Bartr.)! The name is commonly attributed 

 to Wilson. 



96. Spizella AGRESTIS (Bartr.) ! S. pusilla, Auct. The name has 

 already been mentioned in this connection by Bonaparte. 



97. Junco hyemalis. The same term, nivalis, is used by Wilson. 



98. Undetermined. 



99. Agel^eus phceniceus. Evidently the origin of Wilson's Sturnus 

 predatorius. 



100. Molothrus ater (Bodd.). M. pecoris, Gin., Auct. So far as I 

 know, Bartram is alone in the use of the specific name stercorarius. 



101. Sialia sialis (L.). 



102. Seiurus noveboracensis. 



103. Troglodytes DOMESTICA (Bartr.) \Trog. aedon, Vieill., Auct. 

 Wilson took his name from Bartram, and Bonaparte recognizes its source. 



104. Cistothorus PALUSTRIS (Bartr.)! The name is currently 

 ascribed to Wilson. 



105. Thryotiiorus ludovicianus. 



106. polioptila c^rulea. 



107. Regulus satrapa. 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[p. 292.] 



108. f R - cristatus alter vertice rubini coloris, the ruby crown 



wren. (G. Edwards.) 



109. * R. peregrinus, gutture flavo, the olive coloured yellow 



throated wren. 



110. * Ruticilla Americana, the redstart. 



111. * Luscinia, s. philoinela Americana, the yellow hooded tit- 



mouse. 



112. * Parus cristatus, bluish grey crested titmouse. 



113. f P. Europeus, the black cap titmouse. 



114. * P. luteus, the summer yellow bird. 



115. * P. cedrus, uropygio flavo, the yellow rump. 



116. * P. varius, various coloured little finch creeper. 

 111. * P. peregrinus, little chocolate breast titmouse. 



118. * P. aureus vertice rubro, the yellow red pole. 



119. * P. aurio vertice, the golden crown flycatcher. 



120. * P. viridis gutture nigro, the green black throated fly- 



catcher. 



121. * P. alis aureis, the golden winged flycatcher. 



122. * P. aureus alis ceruleis, the blue winged yellow bird. 



123. * P. griccus gutture luteo, the yellow throated creeper. 



124. * Hirundo pelasgia, cauda aculeata, the house swallow. 



125. * H. purpurea, the great purple martin. 



108. Regulus calendula. (Not binomially named.) 



109. Geothlypis trichas. 



110. Setophaga ruticilla. 



111. Undetermined, and not binomially named. 



112. l.ophophanes bicolopv. 



113. Parus atkicapillus. 



114. dendrceca /estiva. 



115. Undetermined. If meant for Dendmca coronata, the asterisk is mis- 

 placed. 



116. PARULA AMERICANA. 



117. Undetermined. (Dendrceca castanea?) 



118. Dendrceca palmarum. 



119. Undetermined. (Dendrceca coronata?) 



120. Dendrceca virens. 



121. Helminthophaga chrysoptera, but not binomially named. 



122. Helminthophaga pinus. 



123. Dendrceca dominica. 



124. Ch^etura pelagica (Linn. 1758). 



125. Progne purpurea. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 353 



126. * H. riparia vertice purpurea, the bank martin. 

 12t. * H. cerdo, the chimney swallow. 



128. J Caprimugus lucifugus, the great bat, or chuck wills widow. 



129. * C. American us, the night hawk or whip poor will. 



130. || Grus clamator, vertice papilloso, corpore niveo remigibus 



nigris, the great whooping crane. 



[p. 293.] 



131. f G. pratensis, corpore cinereo, vertice papilloso, the great 



savanna crane. 



132. ^[ Ardea herodias, the great bluish grey crested heron. 



133. * A. immaculata, the great white river heron. 



134. * A. alba minor, the little white heron. 



135. J A. purpurea cristata, the little crested purple or blue heron. 



136. * A. varra cristata, the grey white crested heron. 



131. | A. maculata cristata, the speckled crested heron, or crab- 

 catcher. 



138. * A. mugitans, the marsh bitern, or Indian hen. 



139. * A. clamator, corpore subceruleo, the quaw bird, or frog- 



catcher. 



140. J A. subfusca stillata, the little brownish spotted bitern. 



126. COTYLE RIPARIA. 



127. Cb^etura pelagica bis. 



128. Antrostomus carolinensis. Called C. rufus at p. 154, where dis- 

 tinguished from the whippoorwill. 



129. Antrostomus vocifertjs, plus Chordeiles popettte, these two 

 species being confounded by Bartram, as by his predecessors. In using the 

 term americana, Wilson afterwards restricted it to the Chordeiles. 



130. Grus Americana. 



131. Grus canadensis. Bartram's names for the two cranes are among 

 their current synonyms ; the birds are well described, as at pp. 201, 220. 



132. Ardea herodias. 



133. Herodias egretta. 



134. Garzetta candidissima. Not binomially named. 



135. Florida c^erulea. Not binomially named. 



136. Undetermined, and not binomially named. 



137. Undetermined, and not binomially named. 



138. Botaurub MUGITANS (Bartr.)! B. lentiginosa, Mont. An Ardea 

 stellaris var. minor, Gm., has been quoted by some for this bird, but no 

 such term occurs in Gmelin, who gives the American bird as 8. Botaurus 

 freti hudsoni, after Brisson (p. 636). 



139. Nyctiardea grisea (Bodd.). N. gardeni, Auct. 



140. Undetermined, and not binomially named. 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



141. J A. violacca, the crested blue bitern, (called poor Jobe.) 



142. * A. viriscens, the green bitern or poke. 



143. * A. viriscens minor, the lesser green bitern. 



144. * A. parva, the least brown and striped bitern. 



145. * Platalea ajaja, the spoonbill, seen as far North as Alata- 



maha river in Georgia, [a] 



146. X Tantalus loculator, the wood pelicane. 



147. | T. alber, the white Spanish curlew. 



148. J T. fuscus, the dusky and white Spanish curlew. 



149. || T. pictus, (Ephouskyka Indian) the crying bird, beautifully 



speckled. 



150. || T. Ichthyophagus, the gannet, perhaps little different from 



the Ibis. 



151. || Numenius, alba varia, the white godwit. 



152. T[ N. pectore rufo, the great red breasted godwit 



[p. 294, wrongly marked "492."] 



153. ^[ N. Americana, the greater godwit. 



154. ^[ N. fluvialis, the red shank or pool snipe. 



155. ^f N. magnus rufus, the great sea coast curlew. 



141. nvctiardea violacea. 



142. butorides virescens. 



143. butorides virescens, 5z8. 



144. Ardetta exilis. 



145. Platalea ajaja. 



146. Tantalus loculator. Full description at p. 149. 



147. Ibis alba. Full description at p. 148. 



148. Ibis alba, juv. Full description at p. 148. 



149. Aramus PICTUS (Bartr.) ! A. giganteua (Bp.). The bird is 

 minutely and accurately described at p. 147. There is no question of this 

 bird, and the nomenclature is exclusively binomial. It is the " Ephouskyca" 

 or "Ephouskyka," said to be the Indian term for "ciying bird." 



150. Tantalus loculator, bis. See what Audubon says about the Wood 

 Ibis being called "gannet" in Florida. 



151. Undetermined. (Becurvirostra americana?) 



152. Undetermined. 



153. Undetermined. 



154. Undetermined. (Totanus melanoleucus or flavipes?) 



155. Undetermined. (Numenius longirostris?) 



[a] Hence the asterisk is wrongly affixed ; it should be \. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



156. * N. minor campestris, the lesser field curlew. 



157. T[ N. cinereus, the sea side lesser curlew. 



158. * Scolopax Americana rufa, great red woodcock. 



159. * S. minor arvensis, the meadow snipe. 



160. * Tringa rufa, the red cootfooted tring. 



161. T. cinerea, gutture albo, the white throated cootfooted 



tringa. 



162. * T. vertice nigro, black cap cootfooted tringa. 



163. ^[ T. maculata, the spotted tringa. 



164. ^[ T. griceus, the little pond snipe. 



165. ^[ T. fusca, the little brown or ash coloured pool snipe. 



166. ^[ T. parva, the little trings of the sea shore, called sand birds. 



167. * Morinella Americana, the turnstone or dottrill. 



168. f Cj'gnus ferus, the wild swan. 



169. f Anser Canadensis, the Canadian goose. 



170. f A. aliis ceruliis, the blue winged goose. 



171. f A. fuscus maculatus, the laughing goose. 



172. f A. branta, corpore albo, remigibus nigris, the white brant 



goose. 



173. f A. branta grisca maculata, the great particoloured brant, 



or grej r goose. 



156. Undetermined. 



157. Undetermined. (Totanus semipalmahis?) 



158. Philohela minor. (Not binomially named.) 



159. Undetermined. 



160. Undetermined. (Certainly no Phalarope.) 



161. Undetermined. (Not a Phalarope.) 



162. Undetermined. (Not a Phalarope.) 



163. Tringoides macularius. 



164. Undetermined. 



165. Undetermined. 



166. Ereunetes pusillus plus Tringa minutilla. 



167. Strepsilas interpres. Breeding in Penna. ! I guess not. 



168. Cygnus americanus. 



169. Branta canadensis. 



170. Anser c^erulescens, Linn. Bartram was wiser here than some of 

 his successors have been. 



171. Anser gambeli. 



172. Chen hyperboreus. 



173. Branta bernicla. 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



174. f Anas fera torquata major, caput et collum viridi splendeu- 



tis, dorsum grisco fuscum, pectore rufescente speculum 

 violacrum, the great wild duck, called duck and mallard. 



175. f A. nigra maxima, the great black duck. 



176. f A. bucephala, the bull-neck and buffaloe head. 



177. f A. subcerulea, the blue bill. 



178. f A. leucocephala, the black white faced duck. 



179. f A. caudacuta, the sprig tail duck. 



180. f A. rustica, the little brown and white cluck. 



Lp. 295.] 



181. f A. principalis, maculata, the various coloured duck, his 



neck and breast as tho' ornamented with chains of beads. 



182. f A. minor picta, the little black and white duck called but- 



terback. 



183. * Anas sponsa, the summer duck. 



184. f A. discors, the blue winged teal. 



185. f A. migratoria, the least green winged teal. 



186. * A. fistulosa, whistling duck. 



187. f Mergus major pectore rufo, great fishing duck 



188. f. M. cucullatus, the round crested duck. 



189. * Colymbus migratorius, the eel crow. 



190. || C. Floridanus, the great black cormorant of Florida, having 



a red beak. 



174. Anas boschas. 



175. Anas obscura ? or Oedemia ? 



176. Bucephala claugula. B. americana, Bel. 



177. fuligula marila ? 01' f. afpinis ? 



178. fuligula marila 9 ? 01' f. affinis 9 ? 



179. Dapila acuta. 



180. Bucephala albeola 9 . 



181. Undetermined. (Chaulelasmus?) 



182. Bucephala albeola % . 



183. Aix sponsa. 



184. QUERQUEDULA DISCORS. 



185. QUERQUEDULA CAROLINENSIS. 



186. Undetermined. 



187. Mergus serrator. 



188. Mergus cucullatus. 

 180. Undetermined. 



190. Graculus FLORIDANUS (Bartr. ) ! Same as the species of A udu- 

 bon, who applied the same name independently. " Red beak" is evidently 

 a confusion in memory, red gular pouch and lores being meant. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



191. || C. colubrinus, cauda elongata, the snake bird of Florida. 



192. ^[ C. musicus, the great black and white pied diver or loon. 



193. f Colymbus arcticus, the great speckled diver. 



194. ^[ C. auritus et cornntns, the little eared brown dobekick. 



195. ^[ C. minor fuscus, the little crested brown dobekick. 



196. J Phaeaton aetherens, the tropic bird. 



197. ^[ Larus alber, the great white gull. 



198. T[ L. griceus, the great grey gull. 



199. ^[ L. alba minor, the little white river gull. 



200. || Onocratalus Americanus, the American sea pelicane. 



201. || Petrella pintada, the pintado bird. 



202. ^[ Rhynchops niger, the shearwater or razor bill. 



203. X Pelicanus aquilus, the frigat or man of war bird. 



204. J P. sula, the booby. 



205. X Sterna stolida, the sea swallow, or noddy. 



[p. 296.] 



206. * Charadrus vociferus, the kildea or chattering plover. 



207. * C. maculatus, the great field spotted plover. 



208. * C. minor, the little sea side ring necked plover. 



209. * Hematopus ostrealegus, the will willet or oister catcher. 



191. Plotus anhinga. Described very fully at p. 132. 



192. Colymbus ? 



193. Colymbus ? 



194. podiceps cornutus. 



195. podiceps ? 



196. Phaethon aethereus ? 



197. Larus argentatus ? 



198. Larus argentatus juv. ? 



199. Chroscocephalus ? Sterna ? 



200. Pelecanus ? There is nothing to show which species is 



meant. The name is the same as that Audubon subsequently gave to the 

 white pelican. 



201. Procellaria ? 



202. Rhynchops nigra. 



203. Tachypetes aquilus. 



204. Sula fiber. 



205. Anous stolidus. 



206. ^Egialitis vocifera. 



207. Charadrius virginicus or Squatarola helvetica. 



208. iEGIALITIS SEMIPALMATA 01* J2G. MELODA. 



209. H^EMATOPUS PALLIATUS. 




358 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



210. || Fulica Floridana, the great blue or slate coloured coot of 



Florida. 



211. * Rallus Yirginianus, the soree bird or little brown rail, also 



called widgeon in Pennsyl. 



212. | R. aquaticus minor, the little dark blue water rail. 



213. * R. rufus Americanus, the greater brown rail. 



214. || R. major subceruleus, the blue or slate coloured water rail 



of Florida. 



215. * Phoenicopterus ruber, the flamingo, seen about the point of 



Florida, rarely as far N. as St. Augustine, [a] 



210. Fulica Americana. 



211. Rallus virginianus or Porzana Carolina. 



212. Porzana Carolina adult ? 



213. Rallus longirostris or R. elegans. 



214. Gallinula galeata ? or Porphtrio martinica ? 



215. Phxenicopterus ruber. 



Summary. Total, 215 species, of which 52 are undetermined 

 in the foregoing commentary. Of the 163 recognized species, 

 many are here given new specific names, the binomial ones of 

 which are to be adopted if found to have priority, otherwise to be 

 entered among current quotations of synonyms. Of the many 

 new binomial and identified names, 20 are believed to have pri- 

 ority. Of these 20, 5 are already in general employ, on Bartram's 

 authority ; namel} r , Nos. 9, 24, 28, 30, 74 ; and 5 others are in 

 general employ, but attributed to Wilson or Audubon; namely, 

 Nos. 43, 87, 95, 104, 190. This leaves 10 new, identified, binomial 

 names, believed to have priority, and consequentlj 7 available for 

 use, to supersede later names now in current usage, namely, Nos. 

 21, 22, 25, 26, 42, 94, 96, 103, 138, 149. Attention is called to the 

 whole of these 20 names, printed in large capitals in the foregoing 

 commentary but particularly to the 10 last enumerated ; like- 

 wise, to Lucar. 



[a. Whence the asterisk is evidently misplaced.] 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 359 



August 3. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Seventeen members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" On the Batrachia and Reptilia obtained during the Exploration 

 of Talamanca, Costa Rica, by Wm. M. Gabb." By Edw. D. Cope. 



"On the Reptilia obtained by Dr. John M. Bransford, U.S.K, 

 during the survey of Nicaragua of 1874." By Edw. D. Cope. 



"Studies of the American Falconidse." By Robt. Ridgwaj'. 

 "No. III. Monograph of the genus Micrastur." 



"On the Food and Nidification of certain North American 

 Birds." By Thomas G. Gentry. 



"On the occurrence of Uranium, Silver, Iron, etc., in the Ter- 

 tiary Formation of Colorado Territory." By E. L. Berthoud. 



On (he Cretaceous Beds of the Galisteo. Prof. Cope laid on the 

 table a stitched copy of his memoir on the vertebrate fauna of the 

 cretaceous period in the west, being Vol. II. of the 4to. series of 

 Haj'den's Reports of the U. S. Geological Survey of the Territories. 



Prof. Cope made some remarks on a paper recently published 

 by the American Philosophical Society, entitled the Geological 

 Relations of the Lignitic Groups of the Cretaceous, by Prof. John 

 J. Stevenson. While he regarded the paper as a valuable contri- 

 bution to the literature of the subject, he thought that some asser- 

 tions of the author required notice. Thus his remark that verte- 

 brate life is too imperfectly preserved to be ordinarily of much 

 service alone [in fixing geological horizons] could not be con- 

 curred in by students of the extinct vertebrata. A similar state- 

 ment respecting fossil remains of plant-life is the following: " Such 

 is the record of plant-life a record little better than a blank, with 

 here and there a few markings, many of which are too indistinct 

 to be deciphered." This view would naturally not be acceptable 

 to students of fossil plants, nor could it in the nature of things 

 be true. Plants offer too many tangible structural features to be 

 worthless as evidence, and the only remark which can be justly 

 made in criticism of the paleophytologists is that they have not 

 always correlated their results with those of the paleontologists. 

 The failure to insist on the tertiary character of the vegetation 

 of the Fort Union beds of the West, would have rendered less 

 prominent the most important generalization yet derived from the 

 study of that horizon, viz., that a cretaceous fauna was contem- 

 porary with a tertiary flora. 




360 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Prof. Cope took the opportunity of correcting a misapprehen- 

 sion which had arisen with respect to the age of the Galisteo sand- 

 stones of New Mexico. Prof. Stevenson remarks that "a careful 

 comparison of this section, as given by Dr. Hayden, with the de- 

 tails of the geology along Dr. Newberry's route from Santa Fe 

 westward, as given in Ives' report, will, I think, satisfy everybody 

 that Dr. Hayden has by some oversight inverted the order, and 

 that the GalisteCgroup underlies the coal group. The Galisteo 

 group is unquestionably the Triassic, as abundantly appears from 

 the description of that system in New Mexico, by Newberry and 

 Leconte." Prof. Cope had studied the Galisteo sandstone both 

 on Galisteo Creek and on the eastern slope of the Zandia Moun- 

 tains. In both localities he found it to underlie cretaceous No. 3, 

 without the intervention of a coal bed. He therefore supposed 

 it to be above the coal, as stated by Dr. Hayden, and a member 

 of the cretaceous series, differing from some of the beds only in 

 its red color. Its resemblance to the Trias he believed to be 

 accidental. 



The death of Win. E. Whitman was announced. 



August 10. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Nineteen members present. 



August 17. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Fifteen members present. 



August 24. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Sixteen members present. 



August 31. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-two members present. 



A paper entitled " On the Fossil Pvemains of Reptiles and Fishes 

 from Illinois," by E. D. Cope, was presented for publication. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 301 



Mr. Joseph Willcox stated that he had observed lately the 

 flight of grasshoppers in Colorado. On a cloudy afternoon the 

 insects were on the wing, high in the air, in countless multitudes. 

 A party of several persons were riding in a carriage and the ques- 

 tion of probable rain was discussed. Suddenly the grasshoppers, 

 with great unanimity, descended to the ground, the scene remind- 

 ing one of a furious snow-storm. In two or three minutes no 

 grasshopper could be seen in the air, and in a short time it com- 

 menced to rain. Soon after the rain ceased to fall, the insects 

 took flight again, but in the course of half an hour, without any 

 particular indication of rain, they suddenly plunged to the earth 

 again. Soon after this it rained again. This process was re- 

 peated three times on that afternoon, and each descent was fol- 

 lowed by a fall of rain. 



Genesis of Gassidaria striata, Lam. Mr. Gabb called atten- 

 tion to a series of specimens illustrating the genesis of a recent 

 species of mollusk. About 1850, Geo. B. Sowerby described a 

 fossil from the Miocene formation of Santo Domingo, under the 

 name of Cassidaria laevigata, which differed from the recent form 

 C. striata, Lam., in being a much more solid shell, with a broader 

 body whorl, with decided varices, more expanded outer lip, mark- 

 edly produced in a posterior lateral direction, little or no trace of 

 teeth on the inner lip, and with a polished surface, or showing only 

 obsolete traces of striation on the adult shell. The young speci- 

 mens, however, are always striated, the inner lip is more or less 

 crenulated, and the outer lip is not so expanded as in the adult. 

 On comparing adults of laevigata and striata, no conchologist 

 would hesitate for a moment in calling them distinct species. 

 Later, a form was described by R. J. L. Guppy from a deposit in 

 Jamaica, of the same geological age as the Dominican beds, and 

 which differs in the adult stage from the Dominican fossils in 

 having the juvenile characters persistent ; that is to say, the 

 spire is higher, the not very strong striation covers the body 

 whorl, the thinner inner lip is crenulated throughout its entire 

 length, the outer lip is less expanded and the three varices are only 

 visible externally as trifling irregularities of the lines of growth, 

 although they show internally as perfectly formed lips. This 

 form was called by Mr. Guppy G. sublaevigata, but in 1873, Mr. 

 Gabb called attention to its small points of difference and reduced 

 the name to the grade of a synomyn of laevigata. 1 Later, Mr. 

 Gabb has discovered, in the Pliocene deposits of Costa Rica, an- 

 other shell, in which the progression of characters is continued. 

 The spire is still higher, the lips less crenulated, the varices 

 suppressed, the surface striation more marked, and, in short, the 

 Costa Rica shell can hardly even be called a variety of C. striata, 

 so close is it to the living species ; and yet the connection between 



1 Tr. Amer. Philos. Soc. 1873, p. 222. 

 24 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



it and the Jamaica form, and through that with the Dominican, 

 is equally perfect. In short, the shells from Costa Rica and 

 Jamaica are the " missing links" between two well-marked and 

 distinct species. 



Galeodea lintea, Conrad (Proc. Phila. Acad. 1852, p. 199), from 

 the Vicksburg Eocene, is a shell of an entirely different type, and, 

 despite the opinion of that author, has no bearing on the present 

 question. It is a true Gassidaria, with imperfect varices, and is 

 tuberculated. 



EXPLANATION OF THE PLATE. 



Fig. 1, la, 16. G. laevigata. Adult. 

 Fig. 2. Gassidaria from Costa Rica. 



Fig. 3. C. laevigata, young, from Santo Domingo. Type of C. 

 subleevigata, Guppy. 



Fig. 4. G. striata, Lamarck. 



The following papers were ordered to be published in the Jour- 

 nal: "On the Batrachia and Reptilia of Costa Rica." By E. D. 

 Cope. 



"On the Reptilia obtained by Dr. John N. Bransford, U.S. N., 

 during the survey of Nicaragua of 1874." By E. D. Cope. 



The committee to which they had been referred recommended the 

 following papers to be published : 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



ON THE OCCURRENCE OF URANIUM, SILVER, IRON, ETC., IN THE 

 TERTIARY FORMATION OF COLORADO TERRITORY. 



BY E. L. BERTHOUD. 



November 24th, 1874, 1 was called upon to measure and examine 

 a coal mine called the Lyden Coal Mine, six miles north of Golden, 

 Colorado Territory. The measurement and the examination were 

 required to ascertain precisely what the explorations to that 

 date had done towards striking and opening up one of the largest 

 beds of tertiary coal that lie in the upturned stratification of the 

 Northern Colorado Coal Field, which the exhaustive examinations 

 and reports of Professors Hay den, Lesquereux, Cope, Gardner, 

 and Mauris on the coal fields of the eastern slope of the Rocky 

 Mountains have so largely elucidated ; but where close proximity 

 to the cretaceous, and the "delusion" of a local inversion, have 

 given some cause for doubts on the part of eminent geologists 

 as to the real position of the beds. But conceiving that this point 

 is now settled, it appears that the "raison d'etre" of the dispute 

 lies in offending cretaceous mollusca, that in Wyoming are found 

 regularly above beds of lignite coal, whose position is inferentially 

 identified with that of other formations lying above them that are 

 confessedl}' acknowledged to be tertiary ; until the general "homo- 

 logies" or succession of beds in Wyoming Territory are more 

 definitely settled, and compared rigorously with our Colorado 

 lignite deposits of like age, we must admit them by force of evi- 

 dence as cretaceous. 



But in the Colorado coal formation east of the mountains the 

 cretaceous fossils we find at the base of the Rocky Mountains are 

 invariably west of the outcrop of coal, and in the descending series ; 

 thus we are compelled to believe that this is no longer a question 

 for argument, and we shall speak of this coal field as, without 

 doubt, a tertiary deposit. The Lyden coal mine of Jefferson Co , 

 Colorado Terr., lies in Section Twenty-eight (28), Township 2 S., 

 Range 70 west, C. T., about 1^ miles east of the metamorphic and 

 eruptive rocks of the five ranges of the Rocky Mountains. The 

 trend of the outcrop of cretaceous and tertiary strata that here 

 are locally known as "Hogbacks" is N. 17 to N. 19 west, which 

 is also that of the coal beds intercalated in the tertiary shales, 

 clays, and sandstones. The coal and its accompanying walls are 




364 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



nearly vertical, but they occasionally clip 5, 7, 8 to the west, 

 causing a local inversion. 



The Lyden coal mine lies in an oblong ridge, isolated mostly in 

 a small basin of erosion one mile north of Ralston Creek. 



The ridge, with its weather-worn castellated summit, is 700 or 

 800 feet wide, and nearly one-half mile long ; a parallel outcrop of 

 cretaceous sandstone, dipping east about 30% and succeeded by 

 a ridge of red sandstone, is found one mile west of the coal out- 

 crop. In order then to reach the coal bed in the cheapest and 

 most expeditious manner, a drift was started from the west 

 slope, and, cutting at right angles to the stratification, reached 

 a distance eastwards of 310 feet horizontal, and over 200 feet 

 below the top edge of the sandstone outcrop. At about 270 feet 

 from the entrance of the drift a small vein of coal was pierced 

 through, about 15", then two more larger beds, making altogether 

 about five feet of good coal in three beds. Penetrating east some 

 ten feet beyond the last coal bed, the miners were astonished to 

 find, in place of the ten to twelve feet coal bed, the object of their 

 search, an exceedingly hard black vein of mineral matter, contain- 

 ing geodes of brilliant quartz crystals, and small veins of pyrites, 

 the honeycombed mineral full of a green ochrey powder, with veins 

 of chalcedony, and small orange-colored crystals and concretions. 



Upon further examination I found that this mineral vein, re- 

 sembling a very dark hard iron ore, had apparently been thrust 

 up from below as a "dike," that it had taken the place of and 

 destroyed the coal bed that it had apparently obliterated ; that 

 the country rock, a soft sandstone with clay shale or fine clay, 

 was disrupted, fragmentary, and in irregular order, the intruded 

 "dike" having the appearance of being the produce, or at least at 

 one time subjected to heat; yet the adjacent rock is but little if 

 any changed, and in the vein we find everywhere in small particles 

 unconsumed coal, but more particularly in the hone3'combed por- 

 tions of the mineral. 



Altogether, from the peculiar appearance of the intruded " dike," 

 and its violent intercalation in the recent tertiary strata, we find 

 a complete substitution of the coal took place in this part of the 

 coal outcrop, for by digging upwards good coal is found above 

 the "dike," for another drift has been extended nearh' 200 feet 

 or more in a northerly direction on the workable coal bed. But 

 in this drift, after entering on the coal bed from the south end 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 3G5 



of the "Hogback," in over 60 feet distance the "dike?" or bed 

 of metamorphic iron ore, etc., was reached, cutting off the coal 

 completely. Upon following upwards the face of the intruded 

 bed of ore, the " big coal bed" was again reached in fifteen feet 

 vertical elevation. The mine was worked for a long distance 

 northwards, until a sudden flow of choke-damp killed all the 

 miners, when the last named drift was abandoned, and the new 

 drift driven crosswise to locate and open up the workable coal 

 bed. 



Having selected different varieties of the ore that the intruded 

 "dike" contains, and having them analyzed, I find that the in- 

 truded "dike" carries from 2 to T 2 <y per cent, of uranium, and 8 oz. 

 bullion ; that iron is present in a large proportion, but no zinc 

 or manganese. The coal is of the same general quality as the Mur- 

 phy, Coal Creek, and Golden coal. It is metamorphosed lignite, 

 and contains 47 to 51 per cent, carbon, 13^ to 19^ per cent, of 

 water, 4^ to 5 per cent, ash, 35 to 32| per cent, volatile matter. 

 The fossil vegetation of the shale and coal bed sandstones contain 

 fossil leaves of cinnamomum platanus, pharagmites, magnolia 

 platanus, and juglens, etc. etc. One and one-half miles southwest 

 of this mine, and in the cretaceous outcrop one-half mile west of 

 Murphy's mine, we find the summit of the Hogback formed by a 

 "dike" of erupted basalt or dolerite whose course is nearly on 

 the meridian. 



Notes on Mr. Berthoud 1 s Paper. Dr. George A. KffiNiG re- 

 marked that the facts detailed in the above paper are of great 

 interest, but the Academy cannot endorse the author's views 

 upon the origin of this mineral deposit. There was a time when 

 anything unusual in the earth's architecture was attributed to the 

 mischievous agents of the great fiery abyss. 



But* chemical investigation has proved that all the fissure veins, 

 as well as stratified ore beds, are the result of a long process of re- 

 duction, crystallization, and deposition of mineral substance from 

 aqueous solution. 



While in many cases the satisfactory explanation of disturb- 

 ances in stratified rocks and especialfv mineral veins and coal beds 

 is very difficult with our present knowledge, nay impossible, yet 

 in this instance, there is no difficulty, nor even anything strange. 




3G6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The ore deposit is perfectly conformable with the strike and dip 

 of the coal bed ; mining operations have developed the presence 

 of coal above the ore, and, no doubt, would reveal it below the 

 level of the drift, if a shaft were sunk to the requisite depth. The 

 presence of geodes of fine quartz crystals and chalcedony, as also 

 the presence of pyrite, excludes all idea of igneous origin (a pri- 

 ori), and makes the ore deposit analogous to the filling of fissure 

 veins \>y the process of infiltration. The infiltration ma}^ have 

 been synchronic with the deposition of the organic matter forming 

 the coal bed, as undoubtedly the masses of iron carbonate and 

 iron oxides in the coal beds of many localities were ; or it may 

 have taken place b}^ replacement at a later period. To decide 

 about these two ways, it would be necessary to examine the de- 

 posit more closely than has apparently been done. But either of 

 them is consistent with the chemico-geological theories now held 

 by geologists. 



Philadelphia, August 14th, 1875. 



Mr. Gabb remarked that while the observation given in Mr. 

 Berthoud's paper was interesting, the writer's deduction was evi- 

 dently at fault. From the description of the facts as given, it 

 seemed to be a case of replacement by segregation, similar to 

 that which occurs in the manganese mine of "Red Rock" in the 

 bay of San Francisco, where beds of metamorphosed cretaceous 

 shale are pseudomorphed by segregated masses of black oxide of 

 manganese; in many parts the original bedding of the siliceous 

 rock being retained, but the material consisting of nearly pure 

 metallic oxide. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 367 



THE PHYSIOLOGICAL ACTION OF HEMLOCK AND ITS ALKALOID. 

 BY B. F. LAUTENBACH, M.D. 



The ancient Greek physicians possessed a more accurate know- 

 ledge of the physiological effects of conium than was acquired by 

 more modern investigators until a comparatively recent period. 

 So late as the year 1845, a well-ascertained and carefully observed 

 case of poisoning by hemlock disclosed truths respecting its tox- 

 ical action which had laid dormant for centuries. An occasional 

 raj 7 of light has indeed appeared to those who from time to time 

 have -sought to determine the properties of the plant : but the 

 general state of our knowledge may be summed up in the words 

 of a very eminent therapeutist. About sixteen years ago Pareira 

 (Elem. Mat. Med., vii.) wrote: "In the present state of uncer- 

 tainty with respect to the real physiological operation of hemlock, 

 it is obviously impossible to lay down indications or contra-indi- 

 cations for its use which can be much relied on." 



Since these words were written a number of investigators have 

 appeared in the field, the majority of whom have been content 

 with studying the most marked symptom of hemlock-poisoning, 

 i. e., paralysis, while a few announced idle theories in regard to 

 its action, which others have again disproved. Reference to the 

 most modern treatises on therapeutics shows that very little, 

 apart from its bare toxical effects, is known of its physiological 

 operation, and the little that is known is involved in such a mass 

 of contradictory evidence as to have led some authorities to 

 ignore it altogether. 



As conia represents the entire active principle of hemlock, I 

 shall confine my observations almost exclusively to it. t 



In man the chief symptom produced, when conia is taken in 

 doses just sufficient to decidedly impress the system, is great 

 muscular weakness; this is accompanied by giddiness, and occa- 

 sionally by disorder of vision. There is an intense desire to lie 

 quiet in a semi-horizontal position, and owing to the heaviness of 

 the eyelids which now occurs, the eyes are kept shut, thus giving 

 rise to the impression that the person is asleep. On attempting 

 to walk the subject's feet feel as though they did not belong to him, 

 and he falls from his knees refusing him support. The pulse is at 




368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



first increased and afterwards decreased in frequency. Sooner or 

 later, as the drug impresses the system, the pupils dilate. In some 

 persons these symptoms ai-e accompanied, rarely preceded, by 

 symptoms of gastro-intestinal irritation, nausea, and rai*ely vomit- 

 ing. If the dose be a poisonous one, we have, in addition to these 

 sj r mptons, total failure of voluntary motion and convulsive move- 

 ments occurring (vide a case of poisoning by hemlock leaves 

 reported by Dr. Bennett in Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. for 1845). 

 A close physiological study of conia can best be made by inves- 

 tigating its effects on the different s}'stems, seriatim, and this 

 method I shall endeavor to follow. 



Physiological Effects on Vegetables. 



Worcet (Amer. Chera. et Phys. xxix. 21, 9) placed a haricot 

 plant (Phaseolus vulgaris) in a solution of five grains of the 

 extract of hemlock; in a few minutes the two lower leaves curled 

 at their extremities ; the next day they were yellow and subse- 

 quently died. The experiments of Schubler and Zeller (Schwei- 

 ger's Journ. f. d. Chem. B. 1, S. 54) confirm this poisonous action 

 of the extract. The same results were obtained in several experi- 

 ments made by the writer. 



Exp. 1. 11.55 A. M., placed two plants (Ailanthus glandulosus) 

 of equal age, growth, etc., in separate bottles ; bottle number one 

 containing a seven-grain solution of extract of hemlock, while bot- 

 tle number two contained an equal quantity of pure water. 3.05 

 P. M., the plant placed in bottle number two is in as good condi- 

 tion as when first placed there, while the plant in bottle number 

 one is drooping. 5.30 P. M., the lower leaves of the plant in the 

 hemlock solution are curled at their extremities, while the plant 

 in water is still in an excellent condition. 9.30 P. M., the plant 

 in water is still unchanged, but the lower leaves of the other plant 

 are more curled than before, while the upper leaves and branches 

 hang down the sides of the bottle. The next day at 6. A. M. the 

 lower leaves of the plant in the hemlock solution were dry and 

 brittle, while the other plant remains unchanged. On the third 

 da} r at 10.30 P. M., the entire plant which was in the hemlock 

 solution was dry ami brittle, while the plant which was placed in 

 water had undergone little or no change. 



Exps. 2 and 3 gave identical results. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 369 



That this poisonous action of the extract of hemlock is clue to 

 impurities and not to the exceedingly small quantity of conia 

 which it contains, was shown by the following experiment: 



Exp. 4. Placed two young ailanthus plants in bottles, one bot- 

 tle containing a one-grain solution of conia, and the other con- 

 taining pure water. In three and a half days the plant placed in 

 water drooped, and on the fifth day it was dry and brittle, while 

 the plant placed in the conia solution did not droop until the 

 eighth day. 



This experiment, taken in connection with another which gave 

 similar results, proves that conia, instead of acting injuriously on 

 plants, really preserves them from decay. As the alkaloid had to 

 be dissolved in a small amount of alcohol, the thought suggested 

 itself that the preservative action was due to the alcohol; but, in 

 the experiments made by the writer to determine this point, it 

 was ascertained that alcohol, instead of acting as a preservator of 

 plants, really hastens their destruction, probably by coagulating 

 their albumem. 



Local Action. 



A study of the local action of the drug shows that it causes a 

 progressive loss of functional power in all the highly-organized 

 tissues with which it comes in contact. Nerve-centres, peripheral 

 nerves, muscles, both striated and unstriated, all succumb to it 

 alike. If such contact be not continued too long, the tissue may 

 recover, even after a total suppression of its function a proof that 

 the alkaloid exerts no destructive caustic influence upon the tis- 

 sues, as was claimed by Tan Praag. Excluding the burning pain 

 and the anaesthesia which follow, I have never observed any ac- 

 tion on the tongue even if the alkaloid was placed on this most 

 sensitive organ undiluted. 



In opposition to the above conclusions I must cite the state- 

 ment of Van Praag (Reil's Journal of Pharmacodynamic lift. i. 

 S. 33), who says that he found conia to act as a caustic when 

 locally applied. The following experiments prove the correct- 

 ness of the conclusions above given, and consequently the falsity 

 of Van Praag's conclusion. 



Exp. 5. Placed one grain of conia on my arm ; in two minutes 

 the spot was red and painful, but in five minutes on pricking the 

 spot with a needle no pain is produced ; the redness remained 

 several hours. 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Exp. 6. Exposed the gastrocnemii of the hind extremities of a 

 frog; the right was painted with a one-grain solution of conia. 

 In two minutes galvanism of the right gastrocnemius did not 

 cause it to contract, while. the left contracts on slight irritation. 

 In several hours, however, the right gastrocnemius regained its 

 power of responding to galvanic irritation. 



Exp. 1. Exposed the spinal cord of a frog, and applied to it in 

 the dorsal region a one-grain solution of conia at 11.39. 11.39|, 

 voluntary movements have ceased posteriorly ; irritation anteri- 

 orly causes no movements posteriorly, while irritation posteriorly, 

 though it causes movements posteriorly, will not cause move- 

 ments anteriorly. 11.39f, galvanization of the cord above the 

 point where the drug was applied causes movements anteriorly 

 but none posteriorly, while galvanization below the point of appli- 

 cation causes movements posteriorly ; thus proving that when 

 locally applied to the spinal cord entire loss of functional power 

 occurs at the point of application. 



The drug has a similar action on the nerve trunks, for when a 

 weak solution of the alkaloid was applied to the sciatic nerve of 

 a mouse or frog, galvanization of the nerve above the point of 

 application caused no contractions in the tributary muscles, but 

 if the nerve was galvanized below the point of application con- 

 tractions occurred in the tributary muscles. 



The following experiments show that when locally applied to 

 the brain of frogs conia produces immediate clonic convulsions ; 

 this is curious from the circumstance that ordinarily cerebral con- 

 vulsions do not occur in batrachians. 



Exp. 8. On a medium-sized frog, 5.41, a very weak solution of 

 conia injected on the brain causes spasms immediately, 5.45, gal- 

 vanization and mechanical irritation cause spasms all over the 

 body. 



Exp. 9. 6.30, a weak solution of conia was injected on the brain 

 of a medium-sized frog, producing immediate clonic convulsions. 

 6.33, spasms occur with every respiratory movement. 



Action on the Nervous System. 



On the Brain It has been announced by a number of investi- 

 gators that conium, like opium, produc.es sleep, but the drug has 

 no such hypnotic action. Reuling and Saltzer (Deuts. Klin. 1853, 

 Xo. 40) mention an experiment in which, ten minutes after the 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 371 



drug was given, unconsciousness occurred, from which the animal 

 could not be aroused. These experimenters must have been mis- 

 led by the paralysis making the expression of pain absolutely 

 impossible ; in this state of affairs the eyelids are drawn together, 

 giving still more the appearance of sleep ; or from their conia 

 being contaminated. 



The state to which I have just alluded as resembling sleep is 

 certainly not sleep, for when the abdominal aorta of a frog is tied 

 and conia injected into the anterior part of the body, paralysis 

 occurs anteriorly and the animal passes into this state of seeming 

 sleep, while posteriorly, voluntary movements continue until late 

 in the case, when paralysis of the spinal motor tract prevents all 

 movements. Had this been sleep, voluntary movements posteriorly 

 would have been absolutely impossible. After taking a grain and 

 a quarter of the alkaloid I once passed into this state of seeming 

 sleep ; that this was not sleep was shown by the circumstance that 

 consciousness was not lost, though the power over the various 

 muscles of expression was entirely gone for the time being. 



It is possible, however, that the brain becomes slightly clouded, 

 but not to the extent to produce unconsciousness. In inducing 

 complete repose of the muscular system, conia powerfully pre- 

 disposes the brain for sleep brings sleep within its reach, so to 

 speak, but there leaves it. If the imagination should happen to 

 be dull, the brain may accept the invitation, and sleep occurs. 



As the convulsions of couia-poisoning are certainly cerebral, I 

 shall now proceed to investigate this serious symptom, which 

 really signifies that death is imminent. 



Convulsions were early mentioned as symptoms of poisoning 

 by hemlock, but the cause of these convulsions had never been 

 determined. Christison (Trans. Roy. Soc. Ed., xiii. p. 383) im- 

 agined them to be due to a depressing action on the spinal cord, 

 while Damourette and Pelvette (Gaz. Med. de Paris, 37, 1870) 

 attributed them to excitation of the cord. 



It is very plain that the convulsions can be produced in but 

 five different ways : first, they may be spinal ; second, they may 

 be due to stimulation of the peripheral ends of the motor nerves ; 

 third, they may be caused by irritation of the peripheral ends of 

 the sensory nerves ; fourth, they may be muscular ; fifth, they may 

 be cerebral. 



That the convulsions of conia-poisoning are not due to irrita- 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



tion of either the peripheral motor or sensoiy nerves, nor to any 

 direct action on the muscles, was readily proved by tying the 

 abdominal aorta of various animals, and then injecting the drug 

 into the anterior portion of the body, when, notwithstanding the 

 fact that the posterior part of the body was completely cut off 

 from the poison, convulsions occurred uniformly over the whole 

 body. 



Exp. 10. On a small male cat. Tied the left femoral artery, and, 

 at 2.01, injected five drops of the alkaloid into the peritoneum. 

 12.01, repeated clonic convulsions occur over the whole animal, the 

 left leg continuing convulsed after the others are quiet. 



Exp. 11. On a very large male cat. Tied the abdominal aorta, 

 and at 12.54, injected six drops of conia into the peritoneum. 

 12.57, spasms all over the body. 



Exp. 12. On a young female cat. Tied the left femoral vessels, 

 and at 5.52, injected five and a half drops of the alkaloid into the 

 peritoneum. 5.56, convulsions, most marked in the ligatured limb. 



Exp. 13. Tied the abdominal aorta of a very lai'ge mouse. 

 3.47^, injected one drop of conia into the anterior part of the bod} 7 . 

 3.49, convulsions, more marked posteriorly than anteriorly. 



That the convulsions are not due to irritation of the peripheral 

 motor nerves, and that they are not muscular, was also proved by 

 the following experiment : 



Exp. 14. Amputated a leg of a cat, and then injected an ounce 

 of a grain solution of conia into the femoral artery. The sciatic 

 nerve no longer caused contractions if irritated, but no spasms 

 were produced. 



The convulsions must, therefore, be either spinal or cerebral; 

 the following experiments prove that they are not spinal: 



Exp. 15. Cut the spinal cord of a large mouse in the dorsal 

 region. 3.47^, injected one drop of conia into the anterior portion 

 of the body. 3.50, violent convulsions anteriorly, none at all 

 posteriorly. 3.50i, the animal is dead. 



Exp. 1G. Cut the cord of a large mouse, and then injected one 

 drop of conia into the peritoneum. In several minutes clonic 

 convulsions occurred anteriorly, but none occurred posteriorly. 



Exp. 17. On a .young cat, whose cord had been cut in the dorsal 

 region. On injecting conia, spasms had occurred in the anterior 

 limbs, but none occurred posterior to the section. 



The inevitable conclusion from these experiments is, that the 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



convulsions of cbnia-poisoning are cerebral, and not spinal, as 

 Christison supposed. 



These convulsions, according- to Yan Praag (loc. cit.), are 

 always tonic in birds and fishes, but they may be either clonic or 

 tonic in mammals ; they never occur in the batrachian, except 

 when the drug is directly applied to the brain, when they invaria- 

 bl} r are present. 



Action on the Spinal Cord. On this subject the conclusions, 

 or, more correct^, suppositions, of different investigators are ab 

 variance. Christison (loc. cit.), Van Praag (loc. cit.), and Verigo 

 (Schmidt's Jahrbiicher, Bel. cxlix. S. 16) say that it acts forcibly 

 as a depressant. Yerigo is most positive in his declaration that 

 all the symptoms of conia-poisoning, except paralysis, may be 

 attributed to its depressing action on the cord. Casaubow 

 (Practitioner, 1869) nnd Pelvette and Martin Damourette (loc. 

 cit.) have come to a directly opposite conclusion, they believing 

 that the drug is a spinal excitant. Pelvette and Damourette write: 

 " Its excitability is but little influenced by feeble poisonous doses, 

 since these do not produce convulsions at first, since the voluntary 

 and reflex movements persist until the end in the frog, and since 

 cold-blooded animals succumb without any marked change of the 

 intellectual or instructive faculties." . . . . " With strong doses 

 there exists an undoubted increase of excitability of the nervous 

 centres, which is evidenced by tetanic movements and convulsive 

 tremblings, and marked a little later by paralysis of the motor 

 extremities. All our experiments place beyond doubt this exalta- 

 tion of the spinal motor centres." 



There are several points in this statement with which the writer 

 must disagree: first, they say " the voluntary and reflex move- 

 ments persist until the end in the frog, where feeble poisonous 

 doses are given." The writer has given conia to more than a 

 hundred frogs, thirteen of whom recovered, and, except where the 

 principal artery of a limb was tied, in all of them complete aboli- 

 tion of voluntary and reflex movements occurred at some period 

 of the poisoning. The two following are illustrative experi- 

 ments : 



Exp. 18. On a medium-sized frog. 7.43, injected ^ v of a drop 

 into the abdomen. 7.43f , neither voluntary nor reflex movements 

 can be excited by the strongest current applied to the sciatic 

 nerve. 




374 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Exp. 19. On a small frog. 2.04, injected ^^ of a grain into the 

 abdomen. 2.08, voluntary and reflex movements still occur ; 2.14, 

 neither voluntary nor reflex movements occur, not even when the 

 animal was irritated by galvanism. In twenty hours the animal 

 had recovered its motive powers and was used for another experi- 

 ment. 



These investigators seem to imply that the convulsions are due 

 to exaltation of the motor tract of the cord, which is far from 

 being the case, but as they were proved to be cerebral when speak 

 ing of conia's action on the brain, nothing further need be said on 

 the subject at present. Again, these investigators write : " With 

 strong doses there exists an undoubted increase of the excitability 

 of the motor centres which is evidenced by a marked paralysis of 

 the motor extremities of nerves." How paralysis of the motor 

 extremities of nerves proves an excitability of the motor centres 

 is beyond the writer's comprehension, for to ordinary minds 

 paralysis of the motor extremities of nerves is always associated 

 with some depressing influence on the nervous centres or on the 

 nerves themselves. 



Further on in their remarks these experimenters state that the 

 primary increase in the number of respiratory movements is due 

 to an increased excitability of the bulbo-spinal centres, but, as 

 the writer ascertained, that when the pneumogastrics were cut 

 and conia given, no increase in the number of respiratory move- 

 ments occurs, their view of the matter is hardly tenable. 



As all the investigators have merely recorded their conclusions 

 without the experiments on which their conclusions were based ? 

 the only way to determine the action of conia on the spinal motor 

 ti'act was to go over the whole ground anew ; in doing this, thirty- 

 four experiments were made by the writer, several of which with 

 conclusions will now be recorded. 



Exp. 20. On a very large frog. A drop of acetic acid placed on 

 its foot caused immediate reflex movements ; these movements are 

 also excited by a very weak galvanic current applied to the foot. 

 1.39^, injected one-quarter drop of conia. 1.39^, a drop of acetic 

 acid placed on the foot causes reflex movements in three seconds. 

 1.39|, it takes a much stronger galvanic current to produce reflex 

 movements than previous to the injection. 1.50i, the acetic acid 

 caused movements in six seconds. 1.57, the acetic acid will no 

 longer cause reflex movements. 2.04, it takes the strongest 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 375 



galvanic current to produce reflex movements. 2.10, the strongest 

 current no longer causes reflex movements, but the animal con- 

 tinues to breathe until 2.19. 



This experiment, when taken in connection with thirteen others 

 which yielded similar results, proves that early in conia-poison- 

 ing there exists no increased excitability of the cord, as is claimed 

 by Casaubow (loc. cit.), Pelvette and Damourette (loc. cit.), for if 

 there had been, the acetic acid would have produced reflex move- 

 ments more rapidly, instead of more slowly, after injecting the 

 conia, and it would have taken a much weaker, instead of a much 

 stronger current to produce reflex movements. These experi- 

 ments also render it probable that the action on the cord is one 

 of depression, but this is uncertain, as the later symptoms of de- 

 pression might be caused by the paralysis of the terminal extrem- 

 ities of the efferent nerves. To obviate this source of error, all 

 the bloodvessels of a frog's leg were tied and the experiments re- 

 peated. 



Exp. 21. On a large frog. Tied all the bloodvessels of the left 

 posterior extremity, carefully excluding the nerves ; the weakest 

 current that would cause reflex movements in the injured limb 

 was then determined. 3.58, injected one-eighth drop of conia. 3.59, 

 acetic acid applied causes no reflex movements (previous to the 

 injection it caused movements in one second). 4.01, it takes the 

 strongest current to produce reflex movements in the ligatured 

 limb. 



Exp. 22. Tied all the bloodvessels of the left posterior extrem- 

 ity of a large frog, and then determined the weakest current 

 which would cause reflex movements in the injured limb. 4.15, 

 injected one-eighth drop of conia. 4.16^, a much stronger current 

 is required to produce reflex movements in the ligatured limb. 

 4.20, the strongest current applied to the ligatured limb will not 

 cause reflex movements, though respiration continues and galvan- 

 ization of the spinal cord causes movements in the ligatured 

 limb. 



As the ligatured limb, in the last-mentioned experiments, 

 failed to respond to irritants after the access of the drug to the 

 trunks and periphery of the nerves was prevented, this failure 

 must have been due to paresis of the spinal marrow, and not to 

 paralysis of either the afferent or efferent nerve-fibres. It is there- 

 fore proven, that, instead of there being a stage of spinal excite- 




376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ment, there is, on the contrary, a steadily progressive stage of 

 spinal depression. 



Complete paralysis of the spinal cord is the last effect of a 

 poisonous dose of conia, for the instant that the cord ceases to re- 

 spond to galvanism, respiration ceases and death occurs. 



Action on the Periphery of the Efferent Nerves. To discuss 

 this subject is really to discuss what has long been considered and 

 beyond a doubt is the chief symptom of hemlock-poisoning; 

 namely, paralysis. The cause of this paralysis has occasioned 

 great dispute among investigators since 1835, when Christison 

 (loc. cit.) announced that it was due to paralysis of the spinal 

 cord ; this was denied by Albers (Deuts. Klin. 1853, No. 34), who 

 believed it to be "due to the action which conia has on the brain." 

 Reuling and Saltzer (loc. cit.) and Van Praag (loc. cit.) agree 

 with Christison in attributing the paralysis to the action on the 

 spinal cord. 



The first person who threw any real light on the subject was 

 Kolliker (Virchow's Archiv, Bd. x. S. 228). In 1856, this dis- 

 tinguished investigator announced that the failure of motion in 

 conia-poisoning is due to a direct action of the alkaloid upon the 

 periphery of the efferent or motor nerves. He first experiment- 

 ally proved that in frogs killed by conia the application of the 

 galvanic current to a nerve fails to induce contractions in the 

 tributary muscles. He then cut off the supply of blood to the 

 hind extremities, and found that after voluntary motion had 

 ceased anteriorly, and even after galvanic irritation of the ante- 

 rior nerves had lost its influence upon the muscle directly sup- 

 plied by these nerves, irritation of the same anterior nerves caused 

 reflex contractions in the posterior extremities, thus showing that 

 the anterior afferent nerves and the spinal cord still retained 

 functional activity after the loss of it in all those efferent nerves 

 reached by the poison. He then extended his experiments by 

 severing in a frog all the tissues at the upper part of the thigh 

 except the nerve, and found that when an animal so prepared was 

 poisoned by conia, after the paralysis was complete in all the ex- 

 tremities to which the poison had access after stimulation of 

 the poisoned nerves failed to excite contractions in the tributary 

 muscles the leg which had been protected from the action of the 

 drug, responded not only to irritation applied to its nerve, but 

 also to stimuli placed upon distant portions of the body. After 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



repeating these experiments several times, be drew the conclusion 

 previously given. 



His results have been confirmed Irv Gultman (Reil. Mat. Med. 

 d. Chem. Pflanzenstoffe), and b} r Verigo (Deuts. Zeitschr. of Arz- 

 neikunde, xxviii. 2, 1870), and by the writer in a large number of 

 experiments. Thej r have been denied b}' Dyce-Brown and David- 

 son (Med. Times and Gaz., Jul}-, 1870), on account of the directly 

 opposite results which the)' obtained in the following experi- 

 ments : 



" 1. In a young cat the femoral vessels of one side were ligated 

 under chloroform. The animal was allowed to recover from its 

 effects, when it was found that the limb operated upon was quite 

 as freely movable as in the uninjured leg, showing that the ner- 

 vous cords had not been included with the vessels. Soon after 

 the poison had been administered the hind legs began to move 

 feebly, the ligatured one being equally affected witli the sound one, 

 and the two advanced pari passu in the general paralysis." 



" 2. A full-grown rabbit was treated in precisely the same way 

 and gave identical results, the hind limb which had been operated 

 on becoming gradually paralyzed in the same ratio as the other." 



As these experiments will have to be discussed further on in 

 this paper, I will defer my criticism until then. 



Recently, upon the foundation of a single, crude, and incon- 

 clusive experiment, Harley (Old Vegetable Neurotics, p. 11) re- 

 advanced the opinion, formerly held by Albers, that conia affects 

 chiefly the corpora striata, and the other nervous centres at the 

 base of the brain, supposed to mediate between the will and spinal 

 cord. The following is the experiment from which he draws his 

 conclusions : 



"At 5.30 P. M., August 23, I injected n^xv of the Succus 

 conii beneath the skin of a full-grown, active, male mouse. Seven 

 minutes afterwards he began to stumble ; at the tenth minute he 

 tumbled over several times while sitting, kangaroo fashion, upon 

 his hind legs cleaning his face. Up to the twentieth minute the 

 little animal continued tolerably active and self-possessed, getting 

 up as if nothing was the matter, as often as, in sitting or walking, 

 he happened to roll upon his side. He now gathered himself to- 

 gether in his usual crouching posture, and resting his nose upon 

 the table became \evy still and dull, with the eyes partially closed ; 

 respirations 160 the normal rate and regular. When aroused 

 25 




378 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



he was unable to run, and on attempting to walk he rolled over 

 on the side. Without any visible change or movement, the little 

 animal now passed into a state of complete paralysis, in which he 

 remained until 8.15 P. M. two hours and three-quarters after the 

 dose was given. During the whole of this time he lay motionless 

 in the position in which he was placed, with his eyes nearly closed, 

 perfectly flaccid, and exhibiting no indication of sensibility when 

 dangled by the tail, or an ear, or a toe. As he lay upon the side 

 the only indications of life throughout this period were the fol- 

 lowing : distinct and regular respiratory movements of the sides 

 of the chest and abdomen, decreasing during the two hours from 

 160 to 135, and interrupted by one or two full swelling inspira- 

 tions during the minute. On gently passing the point of the 

 pencil along the half-closed margins of the e3 r elids, a sluggish 

 contraction, so faint as to be scarcely perceptible, occurred ; but 

 on separating the lids and touching the cornea no contractile 

 action of m. orbicularis was observable. On rolling the rump 

 portion of the tail gently between the thumb and finger a reflex 

 movement, consisting of a sudden jerk, of all four legs was simul- 

 taneously excited ; the vibrissa? were at the same time moment- 

 arily agitated. At 8.15 P. M.,the effects of the hemlock began to 

 subside, as indicated by a little increase in the depth of the respi- 

 rations, which were 135, and on irritating the tail as above men- 

 tioned, the head, bod}*, and legs were , simultaneously jerked 

 backwards, the general movement being such as to throw the 

 body backwards nearly an inch. The eyes were at the same time 

 opened and the vibrissa? strongly worked. Shortly afterwards 

 there was a slight movement in the fore paws, apparently of a 

 voluntary nature the first performed since the paralysis came on. 

 Hut there was no further movement until 9 P. M., when on dis- 

 turbing him as he lay upon his side, he struggled forwards a little, 

 but did not succeed in getting upon his legs. This, however, was 

 accomplished when I again disturbed him at 9.50 P. M., and he 

 then drew himself together, opened his eyes, and began to look 

 about him and sniff for food. Shortly afterwards he crawled a 

 few paces, and meeting with a piece of bread and butter he licked 

 oil' the butter, and then sat down on his haunches and cleaned 

 his fore paws. At 11 P. M., he was in his usual condition (r. 140). 

 The next day the little animal was as lively and as active as ever 

 (r. 160), and has continued so up to the present day, August 28." 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



After studying this experiment again and again, one cannot help 

 being struck with the circumstance of so eminent a physiologist 

 and therapeutist drawing such an unwarrantable conclusion. He 

 must have been either totally ignorant of, or he entirely ignores 

 the investigations of Kolliker, Gultman, and Verigo. Had he at- 

 tempted to galvanize one of the sciatic nerves of the paralyzed 

 animal, he would, nay could, never have made such a mistake. 



Besides this experiment the only reason that Harley gives for 

 believing that the corpora striata are the parts affected, " is the 

 extreme rapidity with which the paralyzing influence radiates 

 through the body." For the same reason it might be said that 

 the strychnia convulsions are cerebral, or that the paralysis of 

 physostigma and atropia were due to a similar action on the cor- 

 pora striata. 



After studying the various papers on the subject, it will be seen 

 that the cause of the paralysis is still somewhat undecided. It 

 is very plain that it can be produced in four different ways : 

 first, it may be cerebral, i. e., due to a direct action on the motor 

 centres within the brain ; second, it may be due to spinal para- 

 lysis ; third, it may be muscular, i. e., due to a direct action on 

 the muscles ; fourth, it may be peripheral, i. e., due to paralysis of 

 the peripheral ends of the efferent or motor nerves. 



That the paralysis of conia-poisoning is not muscular is proved 

 b} T the fact, which has frequently been noted, and which the writer 

 has repeatedly confirmed, that muscles taken from an animal com- 

 pletely paralyzed by conia paralyzed to such an extent that 

 galvanic irritation through the nerves fails to excite contrac- 

 tions can be made to contract most energetically when the 

 galvanic current is applied directly to the muscles. Nay, further, 

 the irritability of the muscles through which the blood poisoned 

 by conia has been permitted to pass is as great and as long con- 

 tinued as that of muscles of the same animal protected from the 

 action of the poisoned blood by ligature of the bloodvessels. 



Before discussing the question of the cause of the paralysis any 

 further I can probably make the remainder of my experiments 

 clearer by giving an account of several which were made to dis- 

 cover whether or not the application of the galvanic current to 

 the nerves of an animal paralyzed by conia will produce contrac- 

 tions in the tributary muscles. 



Exp. 23. On a large frog. The right sciatic nerve exposed and 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



galvanized ; it responds to a very weak current. 3.47, injected 

 one-twentieth of a drop of conia. 3.53, the right sciatic no longer 

 responds to a weak current. 3.55, the strongest current applied 

 to the sciatic nerves barely causes movements in the tributary 

 muscles. 3.57, neither sciatic responds to the strongest current. 



Exp. 24. On a medium-sized frog. 4.45, injected one-eighth 

 drop into the abdomen. 4.55, paralysis is complete, neither of the 

 sciatic or median nerves respond to the strongest galvanic cur- 

 rent. 



Having thus determined that galvanic irritation applied to the 

 nerves of batrachians, paralyzed by conia, fails to induce contrac- 

 tions in the tributary muscles, I then proceeded to determine 

 whether or not the same loss of irritability occurs in the nerves 

 of mammals. 



Exp. 25. On a large mouse. 1.56, injected one-half drop of co- 

 nia into the peritoneum. 2.01, paralysis is complete posteriorly, 

 and paresis anteriorly. 2.05, paralysis anterior ; exposed and 

 galvanized the sciatics without producing any contractions in the 

 tributary muscles. 



Exp. 26. On a large cat. 5.10, injected six drops of the drug 

 into the peritoneum. 5.17, paralysis complete both anteriorly 

 and posteriorly. 5.17^, exposed the sciatics, they will not respond 

 to the strongest current. 



The only instances in which the sciatics continued to respond 

 after the paralysis occurred, were experiments 44 and 45, but these 

 are only mentioned as exceptions here, as further on thej' are 

 given in full with explanations. 



The following experiments were made to determine whether the 

 paralysis was cerebral or not. 



Exp. 27. The spinal cord of a large mouse was cut at the tenth 

 dorsal vertebra; irritation posterior causes reflex movements 

 in the hind extremities. 3.47^, injected one-half drop of conia 

 into the peritoneum. 3.50^, anterior paralysis ; irritation pos- 

 terior no longer causes reflex movements. The sciatics do not 

 respond to galvanism. 



Exp. 28. 1 repeated the last experiment, with similar results, on 

 a medium-sized female cat. 5.52, injected four drops into the 

 peritoneum. 6.02, paralysis anterior; reflex movements ceased 

 posterior, and at the same time the sciatic and median nerves 

 ceased to respond to galvanism. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



These experiments show, that, if an animal is poisoned by conia 

 after the spinal cord has been cut, galvanic irritation applied to the 

 nerves whose communication with the brain is destroyed, like gal- 

 vanic irritation applied to the nerves still in communication with 

 the brain, fails to excite contractions in the tributary muscles. 

 They also show that the moment that paralysis occurs in those 

 extremities still in communication with the brain, reflex move- 

 ments cease in the extremities whose communication with the brain 

 has been destroyed. 



Having thus proved that the paralysis is not cerebral, there still 

 remain two possible causes : first, paralysis of the spinal cord ; 

 second, paralysis of the peripheral ends of the motor nerves. To 

 determine which of these was the cause, I made a long series of 

 experiments, a number of which will now be recorded. 



Exp. 29. The left femoral artery of a cat was tied, and three 

 drops of conia were injected into the peritoneum. In three minutes 

 paresis occurred in the right posterior extremity, and in four min- 

 utes paresis occurred in both anterior extremities, while the left 

 posterior extremity moved freely. The cat continued in this 

 state for about an hour, when it commenced to recover. 



Exp. 30. Into the femoral vein of the same cat six drops of 

 conia were injected twenty-four hours after the above experiment. 

 In ten seconds, complete paralysis except in the ligatured leg, 

 where movements continue though they are slightly impaired. 



Exp. 31. Tied the left femoral artery of a very lai'ge cat. 3.03, 

 injected four drops of conia into the femoral vein. 3.03^, paraly- 

 sis of all the limbs except the ligatured one, where movements 

 continue though they are slightly impaired. 3.04, galvanization 

 of the right sciatic nerve causes no contractions, but galvanization 

 of the left sciatic causes contractions in its tributary muscles. 



Exps. 32, 33, 34, and 35. Repeated the last experiment on four 

 cats, with similar results. 



Results similar to these were obtained when frogs were experi- 

 mented with, as will be shown by the following experiment. 



Exp. 36. Tied the abdominal aorta of a medium-sized frog. 

 4.13, injected one-fourth drop of conia into the anterior portion ot 

 the body. 4.17^, paralysis is complete anteriorly, but voluntary 

 and reflex movements persist posteriorly. 4.20, the sciatics re- 

 spond to a weak current, but the median nerves will not respond 

 to the strongest current. 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



I tied the abdominal aorta and then gave conia to twenty-seven 

 other frogs, and always obtained results similar to those obtained 

 in Experiment 36. In the two following experiments the sciatic 

 nerve of one side was cut, while the main artery of the other hind 

 leg was tied ; so soon as anterior paralysis occurred the peri- 

 pheral end of the cut sciatic ceased to respond when galvanism 

 was applied, while on the ligatured side the sciatic when irritated 

 caused contractions until long after death. 



Exp. 37. Tied the left popliteal arteiy and cut the right sciatic 

 nerve of a frog. Both sciatics respond equally well to galvanism. 

 3.09, injected one-quarter drop of conia beneath skin of the back. 

 3.1*7, paralysis complete, excepting the left leg. 3.18, galvanized 

 the peripheral end of the right sciatic without producing any con- 

 tractions, while galvanism applied to the left sciatic causes con- 

 tractions in its tributary muscles. 



Exp. 38. Another frog was treated in exactly the same manner 

 and gave identical results. After paralysis had occurred in the 

 two uninjured extremities, galvanism was applied to the cut sciatic 

 with no effect, and then to the sciatic isolated from the poison by 

 ligature of the main artery, producing contractions in its tributary 

 muscles. 



In the two following experiments I separated in frogs all the 

 tissues at the upper part of one of the thighs except the nerve ; 

 conia was then given, and after paralysis had occurred this nerve 

 continued to respond to irritants, while the nerve on the opposite 

 side refused to conduct impressions. 



Exp. 39. Separated in a frog all the tissues at the upper part of 

 the left thigh, except the nerve. 2.13, poisoned the animal with 

 one-twentieth drop of conia. 2.21, paralysis complete in all por- 

 tions of the body to which the poison has access ; after galvanic 

 stimulation of the right sciatic and of the median nerves failed to 

 excite contractions in the tributary muscles, the left leg responded 

 not only to irritation applied to its nerve, but also to galvanic 

 stimulation applied to other portions of the body. 



Exp. 40. Repeated the last experiment with similar results. 



These experiments show that when the direct access of the 

 poison to a limb is prevented, that limb never becomes paralyzed ; 

 thus proving that the paralysis must be due to the action on the 

 efferent or motor nerves. 



If any further proof be wanted of this action of conia on the 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 383 



periphery of the efferent nerves, I think that the following experi- 

 ment (one of four, all giving similar results) must put an end to 

 all doubts. 



Exp. 41. Killed a cat with chloroform, and then cut off both 

 posterior extremities at the hip-joint. Into the left femoral artery 

 I injected a one-grain solution of conia, while into the right ordi- 

 nary water was injected. In thirty seconds the application of the 

 galvanic current to the left sciatic nerve causes no response, while 

 its application to the right sciatic caused contractions in its tribu- 

 tary muscles. 



The same results were obtained in the following experiments 

 in which conia and strychnia were given simultaneously. 



Exp. 42. Injected conia and strychnia into the abdomen of a 

 frog from whose posterior extremities direct access of the poison 

 had been cut off by tying the abdominal aorta; by their conjoint 

 action they produced a commingling of paralysis in all other parts 

 of the body with violent tetanic spasms in the protected limbs. 

 This commingling would have been impossible if the paralysis 

 was spinal or cerebral, and can only be explained on the supposi- 

 tion that conia paratyzes all the motor nerves with which it 

 comes in contact. 



Exp. 43. Severed in a frog all the tissues at the upper part of 

 the right thigh except the nerve, and then injected one-twentieth 

 drop of conia with one-sixtieth grain of strychina. In seven 

 minutes paralysis in all other parts of the body with the peculiar 

 strychnia convulsions in the right leg. 



The two experiments of D3 T ce-Brown and Davidson (previously 

 given in full), seemingly prove that the paralysis is either spinal 

 or cerebral and not peripheral ; there can, however, be but little 

 importance attached to them, as the effect of galvanism on the 

 spine and on the nerve of the ligatured limb was not observed. 

 In a single experiment I obtained results similar to those obtain- 

 ed by these experimenters, but the reason for this was soon made 

 clear by finding an anomaly in the external iliac artery ; this 

 vessel, instead of being solely continuous with the femoral, gave 

 rise to a large branch which passed directly to the back of the leg, 

 becoming popliteal. I have observed the same anomaly in five 

 dogs, seven cats, and two mice, and in frogs this anomalous distri- 

 bution occurs so often that it is probably the rule with them and 

 not the exception. In several dissections of various animals I 




3S4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



have seen the internal iliac pass down the back of the leg while 

 there was a very small femoral in front. It is very probable, had 

 a dissection been made, that the unusual results obtained by 

 Brown and Davidson would have been explained by some anoma- 

 lous distribution of the arteries. 



The two following experiments I am unable to explain except 

 on the supposition that conia has a double action on the motor 

 nervous system ; a paralyzing action on the peripheral ende of the 

 efferent or motor nerves, and a depressing action on the motor 

 tract of the spinal cord ; that in almost all cases the former occurs 

 first and predominates, the paralysis of the spinal cord not occur- 

 ring until the period of death, yet in a few instances the former 

 does not occur at all and the latter becomes more marked than 

 usual. The experiments to which I allude are the following : 



Exp. 44. Tied the left femoral artery of a young cat. 12.05, 

 injected five drops of conia into the peritoneum. 12. IT, paral3 T sis all 

 over the body, not even excepting the ligatured limb ; the applica- 

 tion of the galvanic current to either sciatic causes as strong 

 contractions in the tributary muscles, as it did previous to inject- 

 ing the conia (showing that the peripheral ends of the motor 

 nerves were not paralyzed). I then opened the spine and galvan- 

 ized the cord without producing any movements in the extremi- 

 ties. 



Exp. 45. Tied the left external iliac of a young cat. 5.10, inject- 

 ed three-quarters of a drop of conia into the femoral vein. 5.25, 

 no paralysis. 5.25^-, injected one drop into the femoral vein. 

 5.36^, no paralysis. 5.3H, injected two drops. 5.51, slight pare- 

 sis, equally marked in the ligatured as in the uninjured extremi- 

 ties. 5.52, injected two drops. 5.55, complete paralysis all over 

 the bod}*, not excepting the ligatured limb. Galvanization of 

 either sciatic causes strong contractions in the tributary muscles, 

 while galvanization of the spine produces no effect. 



Action on the Periiohery of the Afferent Nerves. Except the 

 loss of irritability of the eyes the sensory nervous system has 

 alwaj's been supposed to remain unaffected in conia-poisoning. In 

 some of the earlier experiments made by the writer evidences were 

 seen which threw doubts on this supposition, but, later, when the 

 following experiments were made, especially to determine this 

 point, these doubts became certainties. 



Exp. 46. Tied the abdominal aorta and left axillary artery of a 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



385 



medium-sized frog. 2.49, injected one-eighth drop of conia into 

 the abdomen. 2.58, the right fore leg is paralyzed, the rest of the 

 extremities move freely. One pole of a galvanic battery on the 

 spinal cord and the other on the left fore leg causes reflex move- 

 ments in the hind legs, while with the same pole on the spine and 

 the other on the right fore leg, the same current being applied, no 

 reflex movements occurred. 



Exps. 47 and 48. Repeated the last experiment with similar 

 results. 



These experiments not only prove that sensation is impaired, 

 but, as this impairment did not occur in the ligatured anterior 

 extremity and was very manifest in the uninjured extremity, it 

 must have been due to the action of the drug on the periphery of 

 the afferent or sensory nerves. 



In opposition to these conclusions could be cited all investiga- 

 tors on hemlock since the time of Christison, but as I have yet to 

 find the first paper in which efforts have been made to prove that 

 loss of sensation does not occur, but little importance can be 

 attached to such assertions. 



Action on the Circulatory System. On the Pulse. As is shown 

 by the following experiments, conia, in ordinary therapeutic 

 doses, causes an increase in the number of heart beats, with a 

 subsequent decrease, but in these doses the disease never goes 

 below the original number of beats. 




386 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



No. ofexperim't 



50 



51 



52 



Animal. 



Man 



Man 



Man 



Time. 



1.39 

 .40 

 .52 

 .56 

 .57 

 .58 



2.01 

 .04 

 .11 

 .15 

 .18 

 .26 

 .29 

 .34 

 .36 

 .39 

 .43 

 .44 

 .54 

 .56 



3.14 

 .16 

 .18 

 .25 

 .32 

 .35 

 .36 

 .38 

 .46 

 .49 

 .58 



4.00 

 .30 



5.05 



1.56 

 2.00 

 .01 

 .02 

 .03 

 .05 

 .06 

 .11 

 .12 

 .14 

 .17 

 .20 

 .21 

 .24 

 .26 

 .28 

 .30 



Dose. 



A gr- 



igr- 



ygr- 



Pulse. 



72 



'93' 

 92 



94 

 104 

 100 

 98 

 100 

 90 

 88 

 88 

 86 

 80 

 80 

 86 

 84 

 84 

 82 

 72 

 72 



76 



'84* 



86 



88 



84 



88 



93 



97 



88 



92 

 100 



92 



76 



76 



84-88 



104* 



102 



110 



104 



100 



96 

 112 

 100 



98 



96 



96 



94 



90 



91 



92 



94 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



387 




388 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



To prove whether or not the primary increase was due to some 

 action on the pneumogastric centres, I made the following experi- 

 ments : 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



389 



As no increase occurred after the pneurnogastrics were cut, the 

 increase in the number of pulsations in the other experiments must 

 have been due to a depressing action on the pneumogastric centres. 

 The subsequent diminution in the number of pulsations can readily 

 be explained by the occurrence of paresis of the vaso-motor nerves, 

 this latter being due to commencing paralysis of the cord. 



Arterial Pressure. Conia causes the column of mercury in the 

 cardiometer to be decidedly lowered at first, but very soon the 

 mercury again rises to far above its original height. The follow- 

 ing experiment illustrates this: 



Exp. 59. On a large cat. Normal pressure, 7^ to 8 cent. met. 

 2.07, injected one drop of conia into the femoral vein. 2.08, arte- 

 rial pressure, 1 to H. 2.09, arterial pressure, 8 to 8^. 2.10, pres- 

 sure, 8J to 9. 2.11, pressure, 10 to 11. 



Action on the Respiratory System. The first effect of a poison- 

 ous dose of conia is to cause an increase in the number of respira- 

 tory movements; this is followed, sooner. or later, by a diminution, 

 and ultimately, if the dose be sufficiently large, by their complete 

 cessation. 




390 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



391 



Pelvette and Damourette (loc. cit.) supposed that the accelera- 

 tion of the respiratory movements was due to spinal excitation, in 

 which supposition they were undoubtedly wrong, as it was shown 

 when speaking of conia's action on the spinal cord that no excita- 

 tion occurs. As the following experiment proves that the primary 

 acceleration of the respiratory movements does not occur when 

 both pneumogastrics have previously been divided, the accelera- 

 tion is probably due to paresis of the pneumogastric centres. 



Kolliker (loc. cit.) supposed that the diminution and the sub- 

 sequent complete failure in the respiratory movements were due 

 to the action on the peripheral ends of the efferent nerves causing 

 paralysis of the muscles concerned in respiration, but as I prove 

 in the following experiments that the respiratory movements con- 

 tinue long after the occurrence of paresis, or even paralysis, his 

 explanation will have to be abandoned. 



Exp. 67. On a large frog. 3.09, injected one-quarter drop of 

 conia into the abdomen. 3.14, paresis over the whole body ; res- 

 piration continues. 3.17, the paralysis is now complete, but res- 

 piration continued until 3.22. 



Exp. 68. 5.19, injected one-half drop of conia into the abdomen 

 of a frog. 5.24, complete paralysis, but the respiratory move- 

 ments continue until 5.31. 



Exp. 69. On a young cat. 12.52, injected three drops of conia 

 into the peritoneum. 12.57, the paralysis is complete, but the 

 respirations continue until 1.20. 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Exp. 70. 2.12, injected one drop of conia into the peritoneum of 

 a mouse. 2.15J, the paralysis is complete, but the respiratory 

 movements continue until 2.20. 



The following experiments show that the paralysis of the spinal 

 cord and the cessation of respiratory movements occur at the same 

 time, rendering it very probable that the latter is an effect of the 

 former. 



Exp. 71. Tied the abdominal aorta of a frog. 10.36, injected 

 one-hundredth of a drop of conia into the abdomen. 10.39f , the 

 paralysis is complete anteriorly ; respiration still continues, and 

 galvanization of the spinal cord causes movements in the ligatured 

 limbs. 10.41, respiration ceased ; galvanization of the cord pro- 

 duces no movements. 



Exp. 72. On a medium-sized cat. 1.00, injected three drops of 

 conia into the peritoneum after t3 T ing the left femoral artery. 1.08, 

 parabysis, but respiration continues. 1.30, respiration ceased, and 

 galvanization of the cord causes no response. 



Exp. 73. Tied the abdominal aorta of a mouse. 2.02, injected 

 one drop of conia into the peritoneum. 2.10, respirations ceased ; 

 galvanization of the cord causes no response. 



G astro- Intestinal Action. 



In ordinary medicinal doses no gastro-intestinal symptoms 

 occur in man ; in experiments upon myself grain doses were un- 

 able to produce attempts at vomiting, or even anorexia. Out of 

 one hundred and forty-eight conia experiments made by the 

 writer, but three cases of vomiting occurred, and these were in 

 dogs, who, as is well known, vomit very readily. 



Exp. 74. On a young dog. 8.10, gave him one-half grain of 

 conia by the mouth ; in three minutes he vomited. On the follow- 

 ing day an injection of one-half grain into the peritoneum caused 

 vomiting in a very short time. 



Exps. 75 and 76. Vomiting occurred when conia was injected 

 into the femoral vein. 



In these experiments vomiting took place when conia was intro- 

 duced through other channels than by the mouth and stomach, 

 and they, therefore, prove that the gastro-intestinal irritation is 

 not due to any local action on the alimentary canal, as is claimed 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



by Harley (loc. cit. p. 82) : it must be the result, as in the case of 

 opium, of a specific action on the gastro-intestinal apparatus. 



These symptoms are not exclusively canine, but they also occur 

 in man, as attempts at vomiting are recorded by Bennet (Ed. 

 Journ. Med. Sci. 1845) in case of poisoning by hemlock leaves, 

 and Schroff (Vierteljahrschr. f. Praktische Heilkunde, 1855), in 

 his experiments with conia on the human subject, records one 

 case in which there was actual vomiting. 



Action on the Glandular System. 



One of the first effects of a very large therapeutic dose of conia, 

 in about one-half of the writer's experiments, was to increase the 

 secretion of the salivary glands. This increase is not due to any 

 local action, as it occurs when the drug is injected into a vein or 

 into the peritoneum. 



As regards the drug's effect on the urinary secretion, my ex- 

 periments compel me to endorse the conclusion of Verigo (loc. 

 cit.), who asserts that " conia has no influence on the quantity or 

 quality of the urine." Casanbau (loc. cit.), however, believes that 

 in the beginning the secretion of the kidnejrs, like that of the sali- 

 vary glands, is increased. Probably this investigator was misled 

 through the fact that the animals voided their urine soon after a 

 large dose of the drug was administered, but this urination is due 

 to the spasmodic contractions of the muscular fibres of the bladder, 

 which almost always occurs. 



I have never observed any action on the skin, as evinced by 

 either an increase or a decrease in the amount of perspiration, 

 and, as other investigators are silent on this point, it is very 

 probable that its function remains unaffected. 



Conia's action on the biliary secretion has not yet been deter- 

 mined, but the circumstance, first noticed by Nega (Zeitschr. f. 

 Klin. Med. Breslau ; 1850, 1), and confirmed by Van Praag (loc. 

 cit.), that after death from conia-poisoning, the gall-bladder is 

 always found distended with bile, renders it probable that it in- 

 creases the biliary secretion. In all the post-mortem examinations 

 made by the writer on animals poisoned by conia, this distension 

 of the gall-bladder was invariably present. 

 26 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Action on the Muscular System. 



The voluntary muscles escape unscathed in conia-poisoning, 

 the}' continuing to respond to galvanism for a long time after 

 death. The contractility of the muscles, however, may be de- 

 stroyed by soaking in a very concentrated solution of the alka- 

 loid, but before such an effect can be produced in life, the animal 

 will have perished. 



On the non-striated muscular fibres the action of the drug is 

 more pronounced ; Geiger (Mag. f. Pharrn. xxxv. S. 12 u. 256), 

 states that it produces irritation of the involuntary muscular 

 fibres of the diaphragm and alimentary canal. In the experiments 

 made by the writer, contractions of the muscular fibres of the in- 

 testinal canal and bladder were observed. 



Action on the Pupil. 



Dr. Hoppe (Die Nervenwirkung d. Heilmittel, Leipsic, Hft. 1), 

 made a number of experiments to determine this action of the 

 drug, and in conclusion says : In the beginning the pupil is con- 

 tracted, but later it becomes very much dilated. His conclusion 

 has been confirmed by Pelvette and Demourette (loc. cit.), who 

 attribute the contraction to augmentation of the excitability of 

 the spinal cord. 



The conclusions drawn by the writer from a number of exper- 

 iments made especially to determine this point, are as follows : 

 When conia is introduced ln'podermically, or given by the sto- 

 mach, the pupil never contracts, but sooner or later it always 

 dilates, this dilatation being due to the paresis of the peripheral 

 extremities of the ciliary branches of the motor-oculi nerve, no 

 longer enabling the sphincter of the iris to counteract the radi- 

 ating fibres supplied by filaments from the more slowly paralyzing 

 sympathetic nerve. When locally applied conia at first contracts 

 and then dilates the pupil, the dilatation occurring from the ab- 

 sorption of the drug. As the contraction did not occur when 

 conia was introduced hypodermically or given by the stomach, it 

 must be due to its local irritant action, and not to augmentation 

 of the excitability of the spinal cord. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



395 



Action on Temperature. 



All investigators of the action of conia have thus far agreed on 

 one point, to almost totally ignore this action of the drug. One 

 copying from the other, all saying that the temperature is lowered, 

 and, as far as I am aware, until this investigation, no one even 

 imagined that conia was so peculiar as to be one of three drugs 

 (atropia, woorara,(?) and conia) that cause a decided increase in 

 the temperature of the animals poisoned. This increase occurs 

 not 011I3' from poisonous doses, but also when full therapeutic 

 doses are administered. This increase in temparature lasts from 

 three-quarters of an hour to an hour and a half, when the temper- 

 ature gradually becomes normal. 




396 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Action on the Sexual Organs. 



The genital depression attributed to conium by the ancients, 

 modern investigators have been unable to discover. The ancients 

 believed, that not only does it repress sexual desire, but that it 

 actually caused an atrophy of the testes and mamma?, which 

 latter, of course, implies atrophy of the ovaries also. The falsity 

 of this belief was shown in several cases of chorea, occurring in 

 girls about the age of puberty, in whom menstruation came on 

 while the patients were under the ph} 7 siological effects of conia. 

 That it has no effect on the mammary secretion of cats is proved 

 by the following experiment. 



Exp. 83. A four-year-old cat was delivered of kittens on July 

 20th. On the evening of the same day she was given one drop of 

 conia by the stomach, and on the next morning another drop was 

 given, with the following result : great difficulty in moving and 

 respiring, without any apparent effect on the mammary secretion, 

 the kittens sucking freely. On the morning of the 22d, another 

 drop was given, and, until the 29th, the animal was given a drop 

 daily without any noticeable effect on the quantity or quality of 

 the milk ; the kittens continuing very healthy, but in all of them 

 some of the physiological effects of the poison being at times 

 manifest. 



In order to determine, whether or not conia, in non-poisonous 

 doses, has the power to arrest or depress natural sexual desire, an 

 experiment was made on a large torn cat, who is in the habit of 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 397 



enlivening our dreams by midnight concerts in the backyard. 

 He was given one-twentieth of a grain of conia on four consecu- 

 tive nights. Finding that this dose produced no effect, on the 

 fifth night I gave him two drops hypodermically, yet that night, 

 though very much under the influence of the drug, he, after many 

 failures, managed to creep to his trysting place and commenced 

 his regular nocturnal music. This experiment proves beyond a 

 doubt that conia has no power to arrest or depress natural sexual 

 desire ; but while this is the case in the normal condition, 

 morbid states are said to be much influenced by the drug. In 

 proof of this, Dr. Harley (loc. cit. p. 51) writes : "In those states 

 of exhaustion and irritability which arise from self-abuse ; and in 

 those cases of erotic tendency that arise from some obscure irri- 

 tation of the lumbar portion of the cord, I have never known 

 conium to fail to give relief." In my opinion, however, this relief 

 is better explained by referring it to the depressant action which 

 the drug has on the spinal cord, than to any possible action on 

 the sexual orq-ans. 



'' 



Absorption and Elimination. 



That conia is absorbed is beyond question, as it has been 

 found by Orfila in the spleen, kidneys, and lungs of poisoned 

 animals. Absorption occurs without regard to the manner in 

 which the drug is inti*oduced into the system, but when the drug 

 is placed on the whole skin in small quantities, absorption does 

 not take place. That this must be due to its great volatility is 

 shown by the following experiment. 



Exp. 85. Placed thirteen very small frogs in a weak solution of 

 conia at 4.81 ; took them out in one-half minute. 4.35, four of 

 the frogs are paralyzed. At 4.37, three more were paralyzed, and 

 by 4.40, all were paralyzed. 



Absorption must have taken place through the skin of these 

 animals, as the solution merely I'eached up to their abdomen. 



Conia undergoes no change in the system, although Harley says 

 it does, because he failed to find it in the urine of poisoned 

 animals ; yet it is eliminated by the kidneys, in whose secretion 

 Zaleski and Draggendorf (H. C. Wood's Therapeutics) have found 

 abundance of it in the first twelve hours of the poisoning, and 

 traces of it for two da} r s and a half. 



That it is not necessary for conia to be changed in the system 




39S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



in order to produce its most marked effect, that on the periphery 

 of the efferent or motor nerves, was proved by the following experi- 

 ment. 



Exp. 8G. Cut off both hind legs of a cat previously killed with 

 chloroform ; both sciatics respond equally well to galvanism. Into 

 the left femoral artery a one-grain solution of conia, while into the 

 right an equal quantity of water was injected. In thirty seconds 

 the application of the galvanic current to the left sciatic nerve 

 causes no response, while its application to the right sciatic causes 

 contraction in its tributary muscles. 



The following physiological test proves, conclusively, that conia 

 is eliminated by the urine. 



Exp. 8*1. Placed two small frogs in the urine of a coniinized 

 animal ; in forty seconds they were both taken out completely 

 paralyzed. 



Exp. 88. Placed two small frogs in the urine of another coni- 

 inized animal, and obtained results similar to those obtained in 

 the last experiment. 



As the conclusions at which I have arrived are scattered 

 throughout the essay, it has been thought proper at this point to 

 present a concise summary of the conclusions previously given. 



I. Conia, instead of being poisonous to plants, as has heretofore 

 been supposed, really acts as a preservative; the alcoholic extract 

 of hemlock, however (probably through some impurities which it 

 contains, but, above all, not through the action of conia, which it 

 rarely contains), acts poisonously on plants. 



II. When locally applied, conia produces a progressive loss of 

 functional power in eveiy highly organized tissue with which it 

 comes in contact. If such contact be not continued too long, the 

 tissue may recover, even after a total suppression of its function. 



III. In inducing complete repose of the muscular S3 r stem, conia 

 powerfully predisposes to sleep, but it is not a hypnotic in the 

 sense that opium is. 



IV. The convulsions produced by a poisonous dose of hemlock 

 are cerebral, and not spinal, as has heretofore been imagined. 



V. Conia produces a double effect on the motor-nervous system, 

 a paralyzing effect on the periphery of the efferent or motor 

 nerves, and a depression of the motor tracts of the spinal cord. 

 In almost all the experiments the former occurred first and pre- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



dominated, the paralysis of the cord not occurring until the period 

 of death, but in two experiments the peripheral paralysis failed to 

 occur, while the spinal paralysis was manifest much earlier. 



VI. The increase in the number of heart beats which occurs 

 early in conia-poisoning, is due to paresis of the pneumogastrics; 

 the subsequent decrease is due to paresis of the vaso-motor nerves, 

 this paresis being due to commencing paralysis of the motor tract 

 of the spinal cord. 



VII. The primary acceleration in the respiratory movements is 

 also due to pneumogastric paresis, while their diminution, which 

 soon occurs, is caused by, and proceeds pari j^assu with the pa- 

 resis of the spinal motor tract. 



VIII. The salivary secretion is the only secretion markedly in- 

 creased by a poisonous dose of conia. 



IX. The voluntary muscles escape unscathed in conia-poisoning; 

 their contractility, however, may be destroyed by soaking in a 

 concentrated solution of the alkaloid. Contractions of the non- 

 striated muscular fibres of the alimentary canal and bladder are 

 caused by poisonous doses. 



X. Contraction of the pupil only occurs when the drug is 

 directly applied to the eyeball ; it is then due to irritation. The 

 dilatation of the pupil occurring after the absorption of conia is 

 due to paresis of the peripheral extremities of the ciliary branches 

 of rnotor-oculi nerves, no longer enabling the sphincter of the iris 

 to counteract the radiating fibres supplied by the more slowty 

 paralyzing sympathetic nerve. 



XI. Conia, unlike almost every other drug of the materia medica, 

 and contrary to the statement found in all works on therapeutics, 

 causes a decided increase in temperature. 



XII. The genital depression attributed to conium by the 

 ancients must have depended entirely on their imaginations, and 

 not on atrophy of the testes and mammae. 



XIII. Conia is absorbed and is eliminated unchanged by the 

 kidneys. 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



September 7. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty -one members present. 



On Mermis acuminata. Prof. Leidy exhibited a living speci- 

 men of Mermis acuminata, which had been sent to him for ex- 

 amination, the 8th of last August, by Mr. P. H. Foster, of Babylon, 

 Long Island, N. Y. It was one of two specimens which Mr. Foster 

 had taken from apple worms found concealed in a woollen rag tied 

 around the trunk of an apple tree in his garden. The Mermis is 

 7|- inches long, and had been retained alive in a box with moist 

 sphagnum. It exhibits a condition which Prof. L. had observed on 

 several pi'evious occasions in other species of Mermis. An inter- 

 mediate portion of the body, apparently from injury, had died 

 and was decomposed, while the extremities held together b}^ the 

 integument were still alive and active. This condition has been 

 observed to be maintained for some time, that is to say, for some 

 weeks. 



September 14. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-six members present. 



September 21. 

 Dr. Carson, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Forty-nine members present. 



Variations in the StipuJar Sjnnes of Eobinia Pseud-acacia. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan referred to the thorns of the yellow locust, 

 which, as usually seen, were about a quarter of an inch long, and 

 nearly as wide at the base; triangular in shape. At the meeting 

 of the American Association at Detroit he collected specimens, 

 one of which he exhibited, with slender spines, about three- 

 quarters of an inch long. Since then, in the vicinity of Chicago, 

 he had noticed that there was considerable variation in the direc- 

 tion of long and slender spines. In his own vicinity he had since 

 noted a large number of trees, and some variation, but onl} r to-day 

 had he found one with long, slender spines, and that was even 

 longer than the case from Detroit, being in some cases a full inch 

 in length. The fact of this great variation was probably new ; 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



but it was also interesting from its bearing on a physiological 

 question of importance. The first suggestion made by most of 

 his botanical friends, to whom he had mentioned these facts, and 

 he believed the first that would occur to the minds of most bota- 

 nists, would be that these extra strong spines would be found in 

 connection with extra strong shoots. If these were true spines 

 that is to say, abortive branches the inference would be a fair 

 one ; but these thorns were the analogues of stipules, as we look 

 for in allied leguminous plants, and would, therefore, be most 

 likely to follow the laws which influenced stipular productions. 

 One of those laws was, at least so far as his own observation 

 went, that stipular development was in inverse ratio to ordinary 

 growth force. For instance, we say that the scales which cover 

 the buds of trees in winter are metamorphosed leaves ; but this is, 

 in many cases, certainly not strictly true. Bud scales are, in 

 many cases, but modified stipules where leaves have these appen- 

 dages, and dilated petioles where they have not. This peculiar 

 development of the stipules, of course, only commences with the 

 decline of growth force in the axis in the fall, or before it has 

 achieved great power in the spring. 



The specimens of Robinia exhibited illustrated the same law. 

 In the one from Detroit the three-quarter inch slender stipular 

 spines it would be seen by the members, were not from a very 

 vigorous branch, but from a very slender one; but the best illus- 

 tration was on the strong branch which he exhibited, cut to-day, 

 and with the inch spines before referred to. This was from the 

 upper portion of a branch of this year's growth, 6 feet long. On 

 the lower portion of the part exhibited, produced when the growth 

 force would be at its maximum, the spines are of the normal size, 

 about one-quarter of an inch in length ; and these spines increase 

 in length gradually to an inch in proportion as the season's growth 

 becomes weaker. But there is a still stronger illustration in the 

 secondary branchlets which have grown from the main one. These 

 are no thicker than straws, but the. spines are about three-quarters 

 of an inch in length, and slender, and much larger, in comparison 

 with the axis to which they are attached, than the largest on the 

 strong main branch. 



On the Anatomy of the Giraffe. Dr. H. C. Chapman remarked 

 that, although the anatomy of the giraffe has been well described in 

 the Phil. Trans, by Prof. Owen, as the opportunity of dissecting 

 it does not occur often, and the literature of the subject is not 

 very full, it does not appear superfluous to call attention to one or 

 two facts noticed in a dissection of the male animal that died some 

 time since in the Zoological Garden, and whose stuffed skin makes 

 a valuable addition in our museum. He had pleasure in saying 

 that he found the internal organs as described by Prof. Owen, 

 save in reference to the manner in which the great bloodvessels 




402 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



w 



spring from the aorta. In the example dissected 

 by Dr. Chapman, there was an innominate 

 artery, which gave off the left subclavian, sub L., 

 the right subclavian, sub B., the right vertebral, 

 V, and the common trunk of the carotids, G ; the 

 left vertebral, V, springing alone from the aorta ; 

 whereas in Prof. Owen's example, according to 

 the description, the left subclavian, as well as 

 the left vertebral, came off separately from the 

 aorta, while the right vertebral came from right 

 subclavian. It is possible that in the former 

 the disposition of the bloodvessels was an ano- 

 malous one. He would also mention that there 

 was an entire absence of a gall-bladder, whicli 

 was noticed twice out of three times in the cases 

 studied by Prof. Owen. For the reason above 

 given, he did not refer to the brain, alimentary 

 canal, etc. ; to those who may be interested, he 

 would simply state that these organs may be 

 seen in the museum of the University of Pennsylvania. 



Post-mortem Examination of an Elephant. Dr. Chapman re- 

 marked that, while the organization of the elephant is pretty well 

 known to naturalists, as the opportunity of dissecting it does not 

 often present itself, he would call the attention of the members 

 to a few points noted in his post-mortem of the Empress, which 

 recentljr died at the Zoological Garden. On account of the heat 

 of the weather, the examination was necessarily a limited one. 

 For some months before death the animal had been gradually fail- 

 ing, having reached an extreme old age. Numerous abscesses in 

 the skin (rendering it useless for stuffing) had been a continuous 

 source of irritation ; while the trouble exhibited by the generative 

 organs was seen to result from fibro-osteoid tumors, whicli in- 

 volved the uterus, ovaries, broad ligaments, etc. These tumors, 

 of which there were as many as 25, varied very much in size, the 

 smallest having the diameter of an orange, while the largest would 

 not go into a horse bucket. The remaining organs were healthy 

 the heart was enormous the aorta and pulmonary arteries looking 

 like hose plugs. As regards the stomach, the cardiac portion was 

 much developed, and the peculiar transverse ridges were observed. 

 The greater curvature of the stomach measured 65 in. ; the cir- 

 cumference in its greatest part 54 in. At the entrance of the 

 oesophagus into stomach, in the specimen now preserved in the 

 museum of the University of Pennsylvania, may be seen a valve 

 extending halfway across the aperture. The circumference of the 

 small intestine was 14 in., while that of the large measured 41 in. 

 The colon was thrown into deep folds. The .liver was bilobed 

 but there was no gall-bladder. The kidneys exhibited the lobu- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



latecl type of structure. The great omentum might be compared 

 to a large sheet in it the lymphatics were most beautifully exhi- 

 bited. The trunk was seen to consist of longitudinal and trans- 

 verse muscles, while the nerves supplying it were numerous and 

 large. 



September 28. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-four members present. 



Samuel G. Lewis, Eugene Santee, M.D., and Stephen Greene 

 were elected members. 



The Committee to which it had been referred recommended the 

 following paper to be published : 




404 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ON FOSSIL REMAINS OF EEPTILIA AND FISHES FROM ILLINOIS. 



BY E. D. COPE. 



John Collett, the accomplished assistant of Prof. Cox of the 

 Geological Survey of Indiana, recently submitted to my examina- 

 tion a number of vertebrate remains from some point in Illinois. 

 The specimens were taken from a blackish shale, and consist of 

 separate vertebra? and other elements of the skeleton, often in a 

 fragmentary condition. Although the absence of information as 

 to the mutual relations of the pieces renders the identification 

 difficult, yet the interest attaching to them, in consequence of 

 their peculiar forms and the locality of their discovery, renders 

 it important to determine their zoological position. Mr. Collett 

 informs me that all the specimens were found near together, and 

 at the same horizon, by Dr. Winslow. Much credit is due to Dr. 

 Winslow for the painstaking labor bestowed in procuring and 

 cleaning the specimens, and for his liberality in presenting them 

 to the geological collection. 



A remarkable peculiarity of all the vertebras of the series is the 

 longitudinal axial perforation of the centrum. They present the 

 character observed in Archegosaurus and other Stegocephalous 

 Batrachia ; but which also exists, according to Giinther, in the 

 living Rhynchocephalous lizard the Sphenodon of New Zealand. 

 The bones of the limbs and scapular arches are so decidedly 

 reptilian, and so unlike those of any Batrachia with which we are 

 yet acquainted, that I am disposed to refer them to the former 

 class. And as there are several points in which the fossils re- 

 semble the order Rhynchocephalia, I refer them provisional!}' to 

 that neighborhood. They constitute the first definite indication 

 of the existence of animals of that type in the western hemisphere. 



Associated with these saurians were found teeth of two species 

 of fishes, which are important in evidence of the position of the 

 beds in which they occur. One of these is a new species of Gera- 

 todus, Agass., and the other a Diplodus. The former genus is 

 characteristic of the Triassic period in Europe, one species having 

 been found in the Oolite. It still lives in North Australia. In 

 both these respects the Rhynchocephalian lizards present a re- 

 markable coincidence. They also belong to the horizon of the 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



Trias in Europe, and the only living species is found in New 

 Zealand. Thus it would seem that a fragment of this fauna, so 

 ancient in the northern hemisphere and so remarkably preserved 

 in the southern, has been brought to light in Illinois. It must be 

 added, in reference to the geologic age of the fossils, that the 

 genus Diplodus, Ag., has not yet been discovered above the car- 

 boniferous ; and that one genus of the Bhynchocephalia belongs 

 to the Permian in Germany. We, therefore, await further mate- 

 rial before venturing a decision whether they belong to Triassic 

 or Permian time. 



Cricotus heleroclitus, Cope. 



Generic characters. This genus is indicated primarily by 

 caudal vertebne ; other parts of the skeleton found with it 

 probably belong to the same animal, so I describe them in this 

 connection, awaiting further discoveries to confirm or disprove 

 such reference. The pieces include parts of two femora of 

 ? tibia, ? ulna, metapodial and phalangeal bones, ribs, and other 

 pieces. 



The caudal vertebra best preserved is stout, discoidal in form, 

 and deeper than wide. It resembles in form that of an herbivorous 

 dinosaurian, but differs otherwise. The articular faces are deeply 

 concave, the posterior most strongly so ; and the middle is occu- 

 pied by a large foramen, whose diameter is about equal to that of 

 the centrum on each side of it. The lateral borders of the poste- 

 rior articular face are expanded backwards, and articulate with a 

 bevel of the corresponding edge of the anterior articular extremity. 

 In this wa} r the vertebra combines the mechanical relations of the 

 biconcave with the opisthocoelian structures. The neural arches 

 are narrow, and directed backwards ; their bases are firmly 

 coossified with the centrum ; no zygapophyses appear on the 

 portion of the neurapophyses preserved, and it is probable that 

 they were weak if existing. On the inferior surface of the centrum 

 two shallow pits occupy considerable space, and indicate the ex- 

 istence of large, free, chevron bones. No transverse processes. 

 In one vertebra the floor of the neural arch is deeply excavated ; 

 in the other it is plane, and marked with a median groove. 



Of the remaining bones it may be observed that the articular 

 faces were evidently capped by cartilage, and do not present the 

 smooth condyloid character common to so many reptiles. They 

 are, indeed, not so smooth as the dense layer of the shafts and 




406 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



surrounding portions, which rises in a fine hounding ridge round 

 the surface formerly capped by the cartilage. The articular end 

 of a bone may be the proximal end of the femur. The section of 

 the shaft resembles that of a T-rail the lesser expansion repre- 

 senting the base of the trochanter, and the greater that of the 

 head. Seen proximally, the head is transverse and truncate, as 

 in the great trochanter of many mammals, while the trochanter is 

 smaller, oval in section, and oblique to the head. There are two 

 articular facets on the head the larger extends across the inner 

 side ; the smaller is subround, and is directed inwards or towards 

 the trochanter ; the two are separated by the ridge of a right 

 angle. 



A supposed distal end of a metapodial bone displays a shallow 

 trochlear face of not much antero-posterior diameter. A phalange 

 is of remarkable form, resembling that of an herbivorous dinosaur 

 in its short wide proportions. The articular faces are slightly 

 trochlear in their character, and the inferior is directed inferiorly 

 at an angle of 45 to the axis of the shaft. The form indicates a 

 diaitiorade terrestrial form. The proximal end of a rib exhibits 

 the section of the shaft and the head. The latter has a broad, 

 tubercular, articular surface, and a smaller capitular surface on 

 the narrow produced head. The section of the shaft is lenticular. 



This genus appears to combine some dinosaurian characteristics 

 with those in which it resembles the Rhynclioceplialia. This 

 association of diverse features is confirmed by those observed in 

 the genus Clepsy drops, Cope, described below. 



Specific Characters. The surface of the sides of the centrum 

 is marked with a few coarse shallow longitudinal grooves, which 

 run into shallow reticulations of weak raised lines. The neura- 

 pophysis is sharp-edged in front, and with some ridges externally 

 at the base. 



The edge of the posterior articular face is excavated opposite 

 to the chevron facets. The latter are large, are separated by a 

 flat surface, and are bordered external^ by a raised edge from the 

 polished dense layer of the lateral face. 



M. 



Diameter of centrum vertical 021 



" " transverse . 



" " longitudinal 



Width of neural canal . 

 " of neurapophysis 



.019 

 .011 

 .006 

 .004 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 407 



The superficial laj'er of the other bones is smooth or striate and 

 rugose near articular extremities. The distal end of the head is 

 oblique, and the side below it concave for a short distance. The 

 very short shaft of the phalange is concave, almost emarginate on 

 one margin. The borders of the tubercular head of the rib are 

 thin and broadly flared outwards at the sides. 



M. 



Transverse proximal diameter femur 024 



Anteroposterior diameter Lead of femur 018 



Transverse diameter shaft of femur 015 



Vertical diameter shaft of rib 008 



" " rib at tubercle 016 



" " rib at Lead 006 



Transverse diameter tubercle of rib 008 



Proximal widtli of pLalange 014 



deptli of 007 



LengtL of same pLalange 010 



The remains indicate an animal more robust than airy existing 

 lizard, but probably not so long as some of the larger Varani. 



Clepsydrops collettii, Cope. 



Generic characters. This genus reposes on a series of vertebrae, 

 which includes cervicals, dorsals, and caudals. Associated with 

 these are proximal ends of ribs, a coracoid bone, and some pha- 

 langes, which are provisionally referred to the same. They bear the 

 same relation of size to the vertebrae that the corresponding bones 

 do to the vertebrae of the Gricotus heteroclitus, and have an appro- 

 priately more slender form, like the vertebras in Clepsydrops. 

 They belong in airy case to an allied form. 



The vertebrae on which the genus reposes are more elongate 

 than the corresponding ones of Gricotus. They are deeply bicon- 

 cave, the articular cavities being funnel-shaped and continuous, 

 thus perforating the entire length of the centrum. In a dorsal 

 vertebra the cavities communicate by a very small orifice, while 

 in the posterior, the median contraction of the canal is less marked. 

 The posterior cavity is more gradually contracted than the ante- 

 rior; in the latter the excavation is, in most of the vertebra?, but 

 slight (except beneath the floor of the neural arch), until it falls 

 rather abruptly into the axial perforation. In an ? anterior dorsal 

 it is as wideby excavated at the border as the posterior funnel. 

 Another peculiarity is the absence of processes of the centrum ; 




408 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



and a small capitular articulation is seen sessile on the border of 

 the cup of two of the dorsals. 



The axis has a singular form, owing to the tubular perforation 

 which continues the posterior excavation to the anterior face of 

 the centrum. There are three articular faces, a larger subround 

 inferior and two smaller superior, which border the neural canal 

 in front and below, and are separated from each other and the 

 inferior face by the perforation in question. The anterior face 

 slopes obliquely backwards and downwards, and is convex in 

 transverse section. There is no facet for the free hypapoph} r sis 

 of the odontoid, but it appears that the inferior articular face was 

 applied exclusively to the centrum of the atlas, as in Sphenodon. 

 But the axis differs from that of the latter genus in the absence of 

 a coossified odontoid process. Either that element is altogether 

 wanting, or it consists of two pieces, interrupted in the middle by 

 the notochordal foramen, and in correspondence with the superior 

 articular facets. There is no true lrypapophysis of the axis, and 

 the only indication of lateral processes is a small articular facet 

 on each side on the lower part of the rim of the posterior funnel. 

 These may have been related to rudimental cervical ribs. The 

 neural arch is broken off. 



The dorsal vertebrae have their sides somewhat contracted; in 

 one specimen the inferior face is rounded, in another, which I 

 suppose to belong to a different part of the column, it is longitu- 

 dinally acute. In this and another dorsal, where the parts are 

 exposed, the floor of the neural canal is interrupted by a deep 

 fissure, which has a triangular shape with the apex downward, 

 when seen in profile. This is due to the fact that the opposite 

 halves of the centrum are united by the circumferences of the 

 articular cups, which have in profile an \A shape. The diapo- 

 physis' does not project far beyond the base of the neural arch, 

 and is compressed. 



The caudals are elongate, and resemble, in the forms of the 

 centrum and neural arch, those of Laelaps. The neural spines 

 are not preserved, but if present were directed well backwards, 

 bearing the posterior zygapophyses, since the arch stands only on 

 the anterior three-fifths of the centrum. Chevron facets are not 

 distinct, but two emarginations on the rim of the posterior face of 

 one of the vertebrae indicates their existence. In other centra, 

 even these notches are wanting. The tail was evidently tapering. 




Pror.Ac.Nat.Sc.PhiklS 



7^ 



Plate XY 



WiG.B.del. 



I . Sinclair & Son, tali PKk 



i.MacroceramusGossei y /T 5. Stenogyra decollata^. 9. Ccecilianella sub cylindrical 



2. Pupa rupicola,,^/. 6. Succinea efFusa^&f/ 10. Succinea campesiris^<% 



3. Succinea avara, Say. 7. Bulimus dealbatus , Say. 11. Succinea lineata, W. G~B. 



4. Succinea obliqua,^ 8. Stenogyrasubula,^ 12. Pupa fallax.tfj/ 





ProeAc, Nat. Sc.PMa 1875. 



Plaie ym 



WG.B.del. 



T. Smclair iSoa, tth.EHla 



l.Stenogyra subula,/^. 6. Hemplullia glandulosa, lO.Helix Yatesi^^. 



2. Arion horteiisis,^/-. 7. Pupa rupicoKifcx " '' 11. Helix polygyrella,^/^/ 



3. Vitrma limpida, Gld. 8. Helix aspersa.v^. 12 . Biuimulus sufflatus, ffld. 

 \ Helix Ne-wteriyana, WGB. 9 . PropihysaoTi Hemphill , 13. Orthalicus undatus, .5^. 



5. Ferussacia subcyiindrica,^ 



14. Helix griseola.^/7: 





Proc.Ac.Nat.Sc.Plula.1875. 



Plate XVff. 



W.G-.B.del 



1 . Zoiutes multidenta1uii^. 

 2.onites suppressus,-^ 

 3 Semites indebitatus,^/. 

 4.Zonites art) oreus, *?#/-. 



Sinclair JcSoa iittu^jnia 



6. Zcmite s YEidulus, Mke. 



7. Zomtes nitidus,./^//. 



8. Zomtes milium , Morse. 



9. Zoiutes ferreus , Morse. 



11 .Veronicella Floridana^^ . 

 12. Succinea Siflimani..#5zi. 

 13 Zomtes Binneyamis .Morse. 

 14. Zomtes exiguus,*^. 



5. Zomtes fulvasj^. 10. Znnites signiiicans.i?^/^. 





Proc.Ac.Nat.Sc.Fhila.187J 



Plate TM 



IW^ 



& 



W.G.B.del. 



' llil Pl-fla 



1. Helix WiedXleyi, J}law?. 5. Helix Mitchelliana^^. 9. Helix asteriscus,>&0ra 



2.HeIixthyroides..*%K 6.,Helix pulchella, J^//. 10. Helix otistricta,^. 



3. Helix Pennsylvanica^/^. 7. Helix labyrinthica, Say. 11. Helix Hubbardi^.i?.^ 



4. Helix loricata, & 8. Helix Townsendiana,/^. 





froc.Ac.NatSc.Fhik.1875. 



Plate XIX. 



L 



W. G-.D'.cLel. 



T. Sinclair & Sou. lith.PinJa . 



1. P arlu la. 5. Partula. 9. P. fusca,i&*. 



2. H. sagemon,i%. 6. P. gracilis, Pse. 10. P. "bilineata,./&?. 



3. H. auncoma,/ 7 ^ 7. P: umbilicata^?<f. ll.P."virgmea,/2y*. 

 4 1 .' P. amanda,/^. 8. P. virginea, Pse. 





Proc.Ac.Nat.ScPlnla.1875. 



Plaie XX. 



WG.B.del. 



T.SiEdair&SonMiPWa 



l.N.subcircula M. B.H.septemvolva^. 9.Macr. turricula,/^: 

 2-3.Sten.hasta,/r 6.C.elegans,^//: 10.H.GoldfussiJ/7af. 

 4-. Helixvortex,i#- 7. S . Stretchiaria, Bl. Hl2.H.astur,^. 



S.H.pyrozona./f. 





Proc.Ac.Nat.Sc.Phila.1875. 



Plate XXI. 



W.G.B.del. 



I. Sinclair iSmHtiPlnla. 



l-2.H.Arangiana,^ 5. H. auric c ma, .fe 8.H.Sie"boldtiana^'. 

 3. Macroc euspira / i^6.End.tiiniuloicles / ^w9. Z. minus culusj?^. 

 4:H. saemon,i>/. 7. H. convicta,ar. 





Proc.A.K5.1875. 



Plate 22, 



--, 





\ 



*'j 



X, 











^ 





; 







- 



: 





Ostrea callacta Conr. 





Proc.Ac.Nat.Sc.Phik.1875. 



Plate XXUI 



7 



m 



"N 



C2 



25 <,-. : : 







/ 



r. Sinclair St SmKBi.Hfla. 



Lewis on New Land and Fresh Water Shells. 





.. .. . ,75. 



Plate. 24 



^5 



14 \ 





1 i.k c n Zi : 





NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 409 



There is no indication of the transverse fissures seen in Sphenodon 

 and many Lacertilia, nor are there any diapophyses on the caudal 

 vertebras preserved. 



Two vertebras accompanying the above are similar in general 

 characters, and appear to belong to the sacrum. If truly such, 

 they indicate a structure different from that seen in Lacertilia 

 and Crocodilia, and present some resemblance, perhaps only 

 superficial, to the Dinosauria. The centrum is much compressed, 

 and the articular extremities present a wide plane border below 

 the notochordal perforation. The corresponding part of the cen- 

 trum presents no indication of diapophyses. Neural arch lost. 



Some heads of ribs of appropriate size are compressed, and 

 exhibit a small tuberosity which is perhaps a rudimental capitulum. 

 They are much more lizard-like than those of Gr'icotus. 



The phalanges are of more slender form than those of Cricotus 

 and more like those of lizards, although less slender than usual 

 among: that order. The shafts are sometimes little, sometimes 

 much depressed. The distal condyle of one of the latter is not 

 emarginate. An ungual phalange is subconic, flat below, and with 

 a shallow groove above one of its lateral borders. 



A coracoid bone supports the greater part of the glenoid facet, 

 and exhibits also a facet for the scapula. These are flat, and not 

 excavated. Its form is that of an irregular right-angled triangle, 

 the base anterior and the outer angle truncated by the glenoid 

 facets. Its inner margin is thickened and truncated as though it 

 had been articulated with a mesosternal or opposite coracoid bone. 

 This may not be a correct interpretation of its appearance, for if 

 so, the arrangement would differ equal^ from that of Sphenodon, 

 Lacertilia, and Salamanders, and resemble that of the Saurop- 

 terygia. And it is not to be denied that there are other points of 

 resemblance to the coracoid of that order. There is an anterior 

 marginal facet as though for a clavicle, and a short, oblique, 

 posterio-internal one, as though adapted for a small sternum. 

 There is a shallow notch on the inner border anteriorly, corre- 

 sponding to one of those of the Lacertilia. 



This genus is more typically Rhynchocephalian than Cricotus. 



Specific characters. There is a shallow fossa in the entering 



angle between the superior and inferior articular facets of the 



front of the axis, and the centrum of the same is obtusely keeled 



below. The border of the anterior articular face of the dorsal 



21 




410 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



vertebra with keeled centrum is undulate. The obtuse inferior 

 face of another dorsal is rugulose, and the edge of the articular 

 face is not undulate. The inferior faces of two caudals are marked 

 with two fine parallel grooves, while in another caudal and the 

 ?sacrals the same is smooth. There are some longitudinal ridges 

 on the upper side of the larger caudal. The coracoid is concave 

 on its inferior side, convex on its superior; the inner and anterior 

 borders are thickened by flaring of the edges. Surface smooth. 

 The posterior edge is thin, and is notched just behind the glenoid 

 facet. The proximal facets of the phalanges are shallow, simple, 

 and more or less transverse. 



M. 



Length centrum of axis .006 



Width do. at middle behind 008 



Depth do. (oblique) 010 



Length centrum of sharp-keeled dorsal 014 



Depth do. behind 012 



Width do. behind 012 



Length centrum of rounded dorsal 012 



Depth do. behind 011 



Width do. behind 0105 



Width neural canal of do 004 



Length centrum of larger caudal 014 



Width of do 0085 



Depth of do 008 



Length of base of neural arch of do. ..... .008 



Length of smaller caudal 0105 



Depth centrum of do 007 



Width " " 007 



Width of rib-head 010 



Length of coracoid 024 



Width of " 019 



Diameter of glenoid facet (transverse) 009 



Diameter of inner border (vertical) 006 



Length of a phalange 010 



Depth proximally .004 



Width " ... 007 



This species was of smaller size than the Gricotus heteroclitus. 

 It is dedicated to John Collett, of Newport, Indiana, of the State 

 Geological Survey. 



Ceratodus vinslovii, Cope. 



Represented by a tooth in good preservation, lacking only a 

 fragment of one end, and a portion of the inner margin of the base. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



411 



The crown of the tooth is in general outline an oval, wider at one 

 end than the other, the inner border gently convex and entire. 

 The outer border is marked by six shallow notches which are 

 separated by as many sharp, compressed projections. The emar- 

 ginations and denticles are the termini of corresponding grooves 

 and ridges, which radiate from a smooth space along the inner 

 margin of the crown. From this plane the grooves gradually 

 deepen to the margin; the separating ridges are acute, and with- 

 out irregularity or serration. The base or root of the tooth is 

 quite wide. Externally it extends beyond the border of the crown 

 at the notches, and has projections corresponding to the denticles, 

 from which it is separated by a horizontal notch. On the inner 

 side the base extends like a shelf beyond the posterior half of the 

 crown, and is produced backwards beyond its posterior border. 

 The inferior plane is concave in transverse section ; the crown is 

 plane in all directions. 



Length of crown preserved 

 Width of crown 

 Length of root preserved 

 Depth of tooth internally 

 Depth of tooth externally 



M. 



.021 

 .013 

 .022 

 .005 

 .003 



This Ceratodus resembles the species described by Agassiz 

 under the names of C. parvus and G. serratus from the English 

 Trias, but differs from them in the shortness of the tooth-like 

 processes. In none of the described species do I find such a 

 development of the basis on the inner side. 



This species is of interest as introducing the genus to North 

 America. It is dedicated to Dr. Winslow, to whom we are in- 

 debted for its discovery. 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



October 5. 

 Dr. LeConte, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twent.y-five members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication: 



"On North American Nocture." By Aug. R. Grote. 



"Notes on the Noctuidae, with descriptions of certain new spe- 

 cies, No. II." By H. K. Morrison. 



"Description of a new species of Bird of Paradise of the genus 

 Ptiloris, in the collection of the Academy." By James A. 

 Ogden, M.D. 



Observations on Lilies. Mr. Thomas Meehan remarked that 

 some bulbs of Lilium pardalinum, received last spring from Dr. 

 W. P. Gibbons, had the scales articulated in the middle. The 

 upper portion of the jointed scale fell off easily at the slightest 

 touch, giving the blunt ends of the remaining portion the appear- 

 ance of grains of Indian corn as they were arranged along the 

 rhizome. Dr. H. N. Bolander has since informed him that it was 

 a common characteristic of this species. It does not, however, 

 appear to have been noticed by monographers of this genus. He 

 had since found that the eastern Lilium snperbum had the same 

 character. It was, however, by no means regular. Some bulbs 

 would have a large number of articulated scales, while others had 

 but a few here and there; and they were as likely to be found 

 among the inner as the outer scales. The scales of Lily bulbs 

 were but the dilated and thickened bases of ordinary leaves. 

 There were no articulations in the normal leaves, and it was diffi- 

 cult to trace any morphological relationship in these scale joints. 



Another observation he had made on the failure of some bulbs 

 of Lilium canadense to produce seed. He had received a few 

 years ago some bulbs of this species from Mississippi. The 

 flowers proved so remarkably large and beautiful, much superior 

 to those of the northern plant, that he was in hopes to increase it 

 b} r seeds, but not one seed-vessel formed though a quantity of 

 L. superbuni growing near them set every flower. Supposing 

 that this might be a case where fertilization from other flowers 

 might be a benefit, pollen was applied from others of the species 

 but all of the same Mississippi plants, with no better results. He 

 wished to call particular attention to this little fact, because he 

 believed that physiological agencies in fertilization and reproduc- 

 tion were often lost sight of in the discussions relating to the con- 

 nection of flowers with insects in this matter. Some remarkable 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 4 13 



physiological facts had recently been brought to light by Mr. 

 Francis Parkman, of Cambridge, Mass., the eminent historian and 

 good botanist. He had endeavored to hybridize a number of 

 species of Lily with the Japan L. auratum. To guard against the 

 chance of fertilization by their own pollen, the anthers were cut 

 from the flowers before they had perfected, and other precautions 

 taken. There seemed to be no chance of any result but to pro- 

 duce hybrids, or not to seed at all, according to all that has been 

 heretofore known of such subjects. But in eveiy case but one of 

 those which have so far blossomed, the seedlings are like the 

 female parents. There was one remarkable hybrid, and one only. 

 That the male parent should be potential for reproduction, and 

 yet powerless to transmit the slightest trace of its own character- 

 istics, he thought among the most wonderful of the recentlv dis- 

 covered facts in vegetable physiology, and would render the Ld} r 

 family an object of renewed interest. 



As remarked before, some Lilium superbum growing near the 

 others bore seeds freely, every flower perfectly, and, so far as he 

 could see, without any special aid from insect agency. He had 

 been interested in noting the remarkable manner in which the 

 seed-vessels varied. He exhibited a number of capsules, selected 

 from twenty-five plants, each plant bearing all its seed-vessels 

 exacts after the pattern of each one exhibited. Some were about 

 two inches long and linear, with rounded ends ; others of the 

 same character but with the end promorse, and giving a triquetrous 

 character to the apex. Another had the carpellary edges perfectly 

 smooth, another, perhaps, like it, with tumid raised edges. Then 

 there were lanceolate, oblong, clavate, pyriform, and almost glo- 

 bose forms. In old times many of these characters would have 

 been deemed of sufficient importance to found new species on ; in 

 times past, and in our own times under some prevailing theories, 

 the variations would be looked for under some law of external 

 influences modifying form. Without offering any opinion on 

 these points, he would simply observe that all these plants were 

 taken from one small spot at Berlin, New Jersey, and had all 

 been growing in his garden under exactly the same circumstances 

 together. 



Remarks on BMzopods. Prof. Leidy made the following re- 

 marks relating to previous communications on Rhizopods: On 

 my return, after an absence from home since last April, my atten- 

 tion has been called to a critical notice by Dr. G. C. Wallich, in 

 the Annals and Magazine of Natural History for May, 1875, page 

 3*70, on my communications to the Academy on our fresh-water 

 rhizopods. Dr. Wallich complains of my apparent inattention to 

 his own researches on the same subjects, published in the Annals 

 for 1863 and 1864. From the character of Dr. Wallich's remarks, 

 I suspect that he has not examined my communications as pub 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



lished in the Proceedings of this Academy. Thus he commences 

 by saying that it had been brought to his notice that Prof. Leidy 

 had published " in some of the American scientific journals an 

 account of researches," and at the end of the article he expresses 

 regret that I should have failed to make any reference whatever to 

 his papers. Aside from the circumstance that my communica- 

 tions to the Academy were only brief verbal notices and not elabo- 

 rate articles, I nevertheless think I have done no injustice to 

 others in not referring to the literature on the subject, as I have 

 laid claim to but little as new. In my first communication (Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. 1874, p. 13), I state in general terms that I had 

 recognized a large number of fresh-water protozoa as the same as 

 those described by European authors, and likewise remark that 

 among our fresh-water rhizopods I had observed most of the 

 genera and species as indicated by European naturalists. Of the 

 few names of the latter I have mentioned, that of Dr. Wallich is 

 one, and this I could not have done had I not been familiar with 

 his publications. 



Dr. Wallich intimates that even my supposed discovery of the 

 remarkable form for which I have suggested the name of Our- 

 amoeba has been included in his own published papers. From 

 another notice by the same author, in the May number of the 

 Monthly Microscopical Journal for 1875, page 210, it appears that 

 Amoeba villoma is the species which Dr. Wallich supposes I have 

 redescribed under the name of Ouramosba. Although Mr. Archer, 

 of Dublin, another able investigator of the rhizopods, regards 

 Ouramceba as only another condition of Amoeba villosa from that 

 ordinarily observed, I am not prepared to accept this opinion, for 

 reasons given in a communication to the Academy, and published 

 in the Proceedings of April 20th, 1875, page 126. 



In the latter notice of Dr. Wallich, while the author expresses 

 the conviction that I published my papers in ignorance of his 

 having handled the same subjects long before me, he also regrets 

 that I do not entertain the same opinion that he did in regard to 

 the interpretation of characters said to involve generic and spe- 

 cific distinctions. 



While extended researches have led me to incline more and 

 more to the views expressed by Dr. Wallich in his exhaustive 

 papers, my published remarks sufficiently indicate that I had not 

 neglected these; for in the particular ones to which he refers, I 

 have either mentioned his name or those of species which he has 

 described. 



In conclusion, while regretting that Dr. Wallich or any one 

 else should have occasion to reproach me with neglect of the 

 labors of others, I take the opportunity of stating that my com- 

 munications to the Academy on the rhizopods have been brief 

 verbal remarks, introductory to the publication of a monograph 

 on the fresh-water forms, in which I shall endeavor to do justice 

 to all who have preceded me in the same field. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 415 



While speaking of rhizopods, I may mention that there are two 

 articles on the subject in the last two numbers of the Archiv f. 

 Mikroskopische Anatomie, by F. E. Schulze, entitled Khizopo- 

 denstudien. In these papers several forms are described, which 

 have also come under my observation. 



The difflugian described by Schulze as Quadrula symmetrica, 

 and first noticed by Dr. Wallich as Difflugia symmetrica, with a 

 test composed of quadrate plates, I have also found in several 

 localities in New Jersey. 



A difflugian, with a structureless test, referred by Schulze to 

 the genus Hyalosphenia of Stein, and described by him with the 

 name of H. lata, is the same as the Difflugia ligata of Tatem, 

 which I had referred with several other species to a genus under 

 the name of Catharia. I had not had access to the work in which 

 Hyalosphenia was characterized, and which has priority to Ca- 

 tharia. The difflngians referable to it are as follows: 



1. Hyalosphenia ligata: Syn. Difflugia ligata, Tatem; Catharia ligata, Leidy; 



Hyalosphenia lata, Schulze. 



2. Hyalosphenia papilio : Syn. Catharia papilio, Leidy. 



3. Hyalosphenia elegans : Syn. Catharia elegans, Leidy. 



The amoeban which I have described under the name of Din- 

 amoeba is almost identical with that described by Schulze with 

 the name of Mastigamceba (fig. 1, Taf. xxxv.), and which is pro- 

 bably the same as the Amoeba monociliata of Carter. Dinamceba 

 is, however, devoid of the characteristic flagellnm ascribed to the 

 forms of Schulze and Carter. It may, perhaps, prove to be the 

 same as Dactylosphseriam of Hertwig and Lesser, the description 

 of which appeared in the Archiv nearly at the same time as that 

 of Dinamosba appeared in the published Proceedings of the 

 Academy. The former is described as being invested with minute 

 villous appendages of protoplasm, but the latter is covered with 

 minute bacterium-like spicules, such as are represented to exist 

 in Mastigamceba. 



October 12. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-five members present. 



Quercus heterophylla. Prof. Leidy exhibited a branch of Quer- 

 cus heterophylla which he had obtained from a large tree, growing 

 on the farm of Mr. J. I. Bishop, in Burlington County, New Jer- 

 sey. The foliage, he thought, indicated a hybrid between Q. phel- 

 los and Q. palustris. He recommended the introduction of this 

 rare hybrid oak into our city park. 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



On the Notation of the Bibs. Dr. Allen presented the follow- 

 ing argument : 



The rib is a member of a system of arches which are arranged 

 bilaterally, each vertebra having a single pair. 



The vertebral end of each dorsal rib bears a facet articulating 

 with its own vertebra. When the end bears two facets the lower 

 one articulates with its own vertebra, while the upper articulates 

 with the vertebra above it. The latter facet may be termed a 

 secondary one, and has no homological value. 



Now this method of arrangement of the facets must be true when 

 applied to the sternal end of the rib through its produced chon- 

 dral segment, the costal cartilage, so that the segment of the 

 sternum bears a strict relation of sequence to the dorsal vertebrae; 

 each segment corresponding to a right and left rib. Thus the 

 first rib belongs to the manubrium, and may be called the ma- 

 nubrial rib. The second, although placed apparently between the 

 manubrium and gladiolus, is named by the position of its lower 

 attachment a gladiolar rib. In the young, the succeeding segments 

 of the gladiolus can be named in the same order as far as the 

 fourth. Be3 T ond this the remaining ribs are so crowded that ana- 

 lysis of them is impossible. It can be seen, however, by studying 

 the arrangement in quadrupeds, that the rule holds good, each rib 

 owning, in a homological sense, its own sternal segment. For the 

 present purpose all that remains of importance is to accept as a lead- 

 ing thought, that when a rib is seen joining any two segments of 

 the sternum to refer it to the lower of the two. Thus, when the 

 seventh rib is seen joining the sternum at the xipho-gladiolar 

 junction, it is correct to assign the rib not to the gladiolus but to 

 the xyphoid cartilage, and, placing it there, we remove it from the 

 series of the gladiolar ribs. 



Now the manubrial and the gladiolar ribs are the true ribs 

 and these, with the removal of the seventh, are but six in number. 

 It will also be seen that were all the false ribs produced they 

 would be xyphoidal ribs. 



It is commonly the case that where a rule of notation is estab- 

 lished itwillbe found to be correlative with details both of structure 

 and of function. This is the case in the example above cited. 

 The ribs (first 6) which present concave upper borders, and have a 

 vertical surface at the pulmonary groove, are the true or manu- 

 brio-gladiolar ribs, and are those which ascend in inspiration. 



The ribs (last (!) which present convex upper borders, and yield 

 in the pulmonary groove a surface inclined downward and forward, 

 are the xyphoidal ribs (or which if produced would be xyphoidal) 

 and are those which descend in inspiration. 



It will be seen that both sets present borders concave to the 

 line of traction of the muscles acting upon them. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 417 



October 19. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-six members present. 



A paper entitled "Observations on the structure of the Mana- 

 tee," b}' Henry C. Chapman, M.D., was presented for publication. 



October 26. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-one members present. 



Wm. M. Davis, Jr., and Dr. B. F. Stephenson, U. S. N., were 

 elected members. 



Prof. Karl A. Zittel, of Munich, and Prof. Willi. C. H. Peters, 

 of Berlin, were elected correspondents. 



The committee to which the}' had been referred, recommended 

 the following papers to be published : 




418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ON NORTH AMERICAN NOCTTJiE. 

 BY AUG. R. GROTE. 



Apatela Harveyana, n. s. 



$?. Allied to hasta and Radcliffei ; a little larger and differing 

 \>y the increased size of the stigmata, which are not joined by a 

 dash, as they are in hasta. Fore wings pale bluish-gray. Basal 

 black dash arrested at the inner component line of the widely 

 geminate transverse anterior line. Orbicular large, irregularly 

 ovate, differing in shape from the same spot in allied species. 

 Reniform very large, luniform. T. p. line shaped as in hasta. 

 The two dashes on terminal space, one above internal angle, the 

 other opposite the disk, are linear and fine. Secondaries fuscous, 

 beneath paler with discal lunule and dentate median line. 



Expanse 42 mm. Sharon Springs, N. Y., 0. Meske, July 23, 

 named for Dr. Leon F. Harvey, of Buffalo. 



Apatela (Eulonche) lanceolaria, n. s. 



%. A species allied to oblinita, but differing by the yet nar- 

 rower, lanceolate, pointed primaries. Color like oblinita, a little 

 more bluish-gray, the fore wings covered with white scales over a 

 blackish ground. All the markings confused, the t. p. line alone 

 to be distinguished, not fragmentary and sinuate as in oblinita, 

 but continuous, angulate on median nervules, and very near ex- 

 ternal margin; it is crossed by two black clashes opposite the cell; 

 a longer one before internal angle. Hind wings pure white. Be- 

 neath white; no discal marks. 



Expanse 42 mm. Newtonville, Mass., Mr. Roland Thaxter, 

 June 6, No. 36. 



Mamestra vindemialis, n. s. 



?. A species of large size with hairy eyes and habitus of Ha- 

 dena sputatrix. Fore wings entirely deep purple or vinous red ; 

 veins shaded with blackish. Ornamentation obsolete. Reniform 

 narrow, indicated by powdery scales. The four ante-apical pale 

 dots distinct. Thorax and head like fore wings ; beneath, the 

 body is tinted with vinous. Hind wings yellowish-fuscous, tinted 

 with vinous on the dusky borders. Beneath, without discal 

 marks, shaded with vinous and with a faint median shade line. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 419 



Expanse 40 mm. Newtonville, Mass., Mr-. Roland Thaxter, 

 June 24. 



Heliophila lapidaria, n. s. 



%. ?. A species allied to phragmitidicola and adjuta, with 

 immaculate white secondaries in both sexes. The fore wings 

 resemble pallens and adjuta., but are less j-ellowish ; they are 

 terminally interspaceally darker shaded, the veins whitish. The 

 shade under the median vein is not black, nor darker than the 

 terminal shades. There is a black cellular dot, and the t. p. line 

 is indicated by two disconnected dots as in pallens, adjuta, not 

 by a series of points as in phargmitidicola, and adonea. A termi- 

 nal series of points on the white hind wings above, noticeable on 

 both wings beneath. Collar with three lead-colored lines. The 

 species is a little slenderer than phragmitidicola, and wants the 

 terminal shading to the hind wings. 



Expanse 34 to 36 mm. Buffalo, N. Y. 



I have discovered in examining a collection of Canadian Noc- 

 tuidse named by the late Mr. Francis Walker, that multilinea, 

 Walk., is the same species as commoides, Guen. 



Helotropha atra, Grote, Proc. Acad. N. S. Phila. 18?4, 200. 



% . ?. Both sexes of this form have been taken b} 7 Mr. Win. 

 Saunders, London, Canada; it has also occurred to Mr. Lintner, 

 near Albany, N. Y. It diners from reniformis, by the smaller, 

 compact, whitish reniform, this, with the concolorous brownish- 

 black fore wings, gives the moth a resemblance to Hadena sputa- 

 trix, Grote. The faintly expressed ornamentation resembles that 

 of Helotropha reniformis, Grote. I believe it to be a distinct 

 species. 



Hadena diversicolor. 



Demas diversicolor, Moit. Proc. Bost. S. N. H., 132, 1874. 



I have examined the ? type of this species belonging to Mr. 

 Thaxter. The position of the accessory cell is not as in Demas 

 (Lederer's Taf. 1, fig. 3). The palpi are not "short and hanging," 

 nor is the head "drawn in" anj 7 more than in Hadena finitima, 

 for example. It may seem "a wide leap," but the species is a 

 Hadena and not a Demas, and this latter genus is not as yet 

 shown to occur in North America. The ornamentation strongly 

 resembles that of Hadena modica, and the structure and the 

 characteristic ringlets beneath on the disk, replacing the usual 




420 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



form of the discal mark, show the moth to be naturally grouped 

 with our species which Mr. Guenee calls " Apamea," but which I 

 have referred to Hadena. 



Hadena vultuosa, n. s. 



%. 9- Belongs to the section Xylophasia, and is very closely 

 allied to H. lignicolor. It is a little smaller than this species. 

 The red color is wanting. The teguhe are blackish-brown ; disk 

 ferruginous. The ground color of the wings is a pale obscure 

 ochreous. The costa is shaded with dark-brown, and this shade 

 obtains on terminal space and runs inwardly in two places, at in- 

 ternal margin and opposite the cell, as in lignicolor. The ground 

 color of the wins is free from dashes of darker shade over the 

 median and subterminal spaces. There is a brown shade on the 

 internal margin at base. The transverse lines are indicated 

 by costal streaks. The stigmata are much as in lignicolor, but 

 narrower. The t. p. line is usually seen as a single faint line, 

 scalloped and succeeded by a double series of dots on the points, 

 the inner series black and evident. Beneath there is an indistinct 

 common shade line. Specimens from Canada (Mr. Saunders) 

 and New York (Mr. Robinson) seem larger than the figm-es of the 

 European rurea which I have seen, and differ by the absence of 

 any whitish shade on internal margin, and b} T the discal dots be- 

 neath being solid. I have catalogued this species as rurea, from 

 a determination received from the late Mr. Walker. But there 

 is sufficient evidence now that the European species is different, 

 while a nearer comparison must be postponed until European 

 material can be obtained. 



Mamestra Dimmocki, n. s. 



?. Allied to siibjnncta, G. and R. ; of the same blackish-brown 

 color, differing by being darker and more reddish, by the absence 

 of the median dash and the want of the prominent W-mark to the 

 subterminal line. Collar with a black line. Fore wings with a 

 short distinct black basal dash. Median lines blackish, indistinct, 

 lunulate, approximate. Orbicular large, luniform, excavate on 

 the inner side ; reniform large, medially constricted, shaded with 

 blackish over median nervules ; claviform merely outlined. Me- 

 dian shade line ferruginous below the reniform. Subterminal line 

 nearly straight, a series of interspaceal cuneiform ferruginous 

 spots surmounted by pale atoms. Hind wings dark fuscous, witli 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



421 



pale fringes. Beneath thickly powdered with blackish, with a 

 slight ruddy stain ; hind wings with dot and line. 



Expanse 40 mm. 



From the White Mountains, New Hampshire, collected by Mr. 

 Geo. Dimmock, for whom I name the species. 



Cirrhophanus triangulifer, Grote, Can. Ent. 4, 187. 



% . Antennre with thickened scape, simple, scaled above, 

 ciliate beneath. Eyes naked. Thorax tufted; wings rounded. 

 Front roughened, tuberculate; palpi slender, short. Legs un- 

 armed. Rich, rather pale, silky yellow, with deep yellow linear 

 shadings. Fore wings with the usual markings wanting. All 

 the markings deep ochre-yellow, consisting of curved or straight 

 shadings on the veins and interspaces. The t. p. line seems near 

 the margin, geminate, shaded, even, forming a rounded sweep from 

 opposite the eell to below vein 2, where it is indented ; it here 

 appears to be disconnected, running back on the vein ; below this 



two curved ochre lines on each side 

 of vein 1 seem to meet on the t. p. 

 line. Thus two triangulate spaces 

 are formed on the primary. Sub- 

 terminal and terminal lines indi- 

 cated. Fringes and hind wings 

 shiny yellow. Beneath yellow with- 

 out markings. 



Expanse 40 mm. Kansas, Prof. 

 Snow. 

 By the kindness of Professor C. Y. Riley I am enabled to pre- 

 sent the annexed beautiful wood-cut, illustrating the female type 

 of this species and showing the neuration. The student is re- 

 ferred to the original paper for my remarks on the structural 

 affinities of the moth, which seem to me to lie with Gortyna. 



Lygranthoecia limbalis, n. s. 



?. Allied to arcifera. Fore wings deep shining blackish- 

 brown; thorax more reddish. A 11 the lines obliterate; the an- 

 nulets of the reniform can be made out. On the middle of the 

 wing there is a whitish patch on internal margin, and one above 

 it, smaller, on costa. Hind wings black, immaculate, with pale 

 fringes. Beneath black, with the terminal spaces reddish. 

 Abdomen black, with the terminal segment yellowish. 




422 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Expanse 20 mm. Habitat, Kansas, Prof. Snow. 



Aedophron Snowi, n. s. 



9 . Eyes naked ; tongue stout ; fore tibiae short, with termi- 

 nal and lateral claws; hind and middle tibiae spinose. Wings 

 shaped as in A. rhodites from Europe, and colors the same. The 

 American species is larger and stouter, and has less rose-color on 

 fore wings. Thorax and fore wings pale lemon-yellow, color of 

 Heliothis citrinellus, G. and R.. Fore wings with a light roseate 

 shading beyond the cell, and with the sinuate t. p. line faintly in- 

 dicated in rose-color. Some roseate basal shades and at the place 

 of the t. a. line. Hind wings pale fuscous, with a rosy terminal 

 stain ; fringes pale. Beneath primaries fuscous, with rosy apices; 

 hind wings yellow, with rosy tint near anal angle. Body stout. 



Expanse 32 mm. Hab. Lawrence, Kansas. Prof. F. H. Snow, 

 for whom I name the beautiful species. 



Agrotis Hubner. 



Both of the first two of the following forms were communicated 

 by me to Mr. Morrison of Cambridge, in response to his request 

 to send him new species for his intended paper on the genus. 

 Both were returned by him as varieties of A. auxiliaris, Grote. 

 It is possible that this view will be found correct; still it will be 

 proper to give the forms different designations. 1 have A. auxili- 

 aris from Texas and Colorado. 



Of the first form I have two female specimens before me, collected 

 with a number of other specimens by Mr. Jas. Ridings in Colo- 

 rado; I have also donated one to Mr. Morrison. The color is much 

 paler than auxiliaris, and there is a resemblance in this form to 

 messoria, from which it differs by the more dentate transverse 

 anterior and distincter terminal line, as well as by the darker sec- 

 ondaries and larger size. There is a faint ochrey shading, more 

 visible in the median space. The reniform is smaller, a little 

 blackish stained at base, the claviform shorter and narrower and 

 only visible at apex, compared with auxiliaris. There is no 

 blackish basal dash nor whitening of the vein above it; and no 

 indication of the submedian stripe. Else the markings are much 

 like auxiliaris, while the primaries are more uniform in their 

 neutral tint. The smoky secondaries with white interlined fringes 

 are much as in auxiliaris ; beneath the discal mark is more promi- 

 nent. 



Expanse 42 mm. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 423 



Agrotis introferens, n. s. 



I have a fine male specimen sent me by Mr. E. L. Graef, from 

 Texas. It resembles perexcellens from California in coloration, 

 but is narrower winged and has the habitus of auxiliaris. It 

 differs bj^ the collar at base being ochreous, divided by the central 

 black line from the superior dark brownish portion. The costa is 

 broadly striped with ochreous to the reniform. The stigmata are 

 distinctly inter-annulate with white, and the median vein is white 

 lined. The subterminal space is shaded with ochreous or pale 

 leather-brown, and the internal margin also shaded with the same 

 color, recalling fennica. The orbicular is more irregular and an- 

 gulate in shape, and larger. The claviform is less prominent, and 

 there is the same ochrey submedian stripe as in auxiliaris. Hind 

 wings and under surface much like the other forms. 



Expanse 42 mm. 



Agrotis campestris, n. s. 



Allied to tessellata. It differs by its larger size, the even dark 

 purple-brown of the primaries and thorax ; the latter and the 

 fringes being in one specimen shaded with ferruginous. The black 

 shading on the cell is more obvious, and the transverse lines dis- 

 tinctly marked in black. Hind wings usually darker than in 

 tessellata, with fringes almost entirely fuscous. Under side like 

 tessellata, of which this may be a modification, but, if so, its dis- 

 tribution is singular. 



Expanse 35 to 3*7 mm. Vancouver Island, Mr. Henry Edwards, 

 No. 5644 ; Canada, Mr. Geo. Norman ; N. Y. Mr. Theo. L. Mead, 

 No. 131. 



Agrotis cinereomacula, Morr. 



?. A species allied to perexcellens in colors and ornamenta- 

 tion. Fore wings either entirely ochrey or pale leather-brown or 

 with the median space and middle of the wing from t. p. line to 

 base shaded with red-brown. The variation consists in the amount 

 of red-brown shading to the wing ; in either case the subterminal 

 space costa and internal margin are ochreous. Stigmata rather 

 large, ashen, of the usual shape, with black annuli ; cell shaded 

 with blackish-brown. Subterminal line preceded on costa by a 

 brown shade, leaving the ochreous tint of the s. t. space to spread 

 over apices. Terminal space narrow, irregular, filled with blackish 

 below vein 7. Median vein narrowly white-lined; a black dash be- 




424 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



tween basal and t. a. line below the vein. Thorax red-brown ; 

 collar at base ochreous. Transverse median lines on fore wing 

 sub-obsolete. This species is broader winged than introferens, 

 and very like perexcellens, Grote, from the Pacific coast, differing 

 by the shorter claviform, the more ochrey hue, and apparently by 

 the less prominent lunulations of the t. p. line. 



Expanse 38 to 40 mm. Canada, Mr. Geo. Norman. 



Mr. Morrison has sent me a specimen under this name that I 

 refer to this species. His brief description cannot possibly be 

 used to identify the species. Compare Bost. Proc. 1874, p. 164. 



Agrotis gularis, n. s. 



%. Possibly a form of cinereomacula. Antenna? feebly brush- 

 like. Seems to be a shorter winged and stouter species. Anterior 

 wings and thorax entirely unicolorous shining purplish reel-brown. 

 Stigmata interlined with pale powdery scales, defined by black 

 annul i, concolorous, of the usual shape. A black dash below 

 median vein, which extends from base to t. a. line, the latter 

 fragmentary. Cell shaded with blackish. Claviform black out- 

 lined, short, and sharp. T. p. line obsolete. Terminal space 

 blackish stained, and there is a preapical deeper costal shade 

 before the inception of the s. t. line. Hind wings smoky fuscous ; 

 fringes dark. Beneath with lunule, subirrorate, and darker than 

 in the preceding species. 



Expanse 35 mm. Canada, Mr. Geo. Norman, No. 381. 



Agrotis haruspica, Grote. 



Mr. Morrison (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1875, 59) says that 

 I am in "error" with regard to the name unimacula, proposed for 

 this species by himself, that it is not preoccupied in the genus, 

 "the name is used by Dr. Staudinger for a simple variety of the 

 common A.plecta, Linn." Mr. Morrison seems to be unacquainted 

 with the discussion carried on in the Wiener Eut. Monatschrift by 

 Ledcrer with respect to the Andalusian A. unimacula, Staud. 

 Lederer regarded the Spanish species as a form of leucogaster, 

 not plecta : on the other hand, Staudinger cites it with doubt in 

 his last Catalogue as a variety of plecta, considering it still to 

 have claims to rank as a species, as which he at first described it. 

 In no event, whether for a species or a variety, could the same 

 name be used twice in the same genus. In a difficult matter, like 

 that of unimacula, Staud., a statement from Mr. Morrison, without 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 425 



even specimens before him, can hardly as yet correct European 

 lepidopterists, or affect the operation of a rule in zoological 

 nomenclature. 



Mamestra lubens, Grote. 



Mamestra rufula, || Morr. Proc. Acad. N. Sci. Phila. 1874, 62. 



The name here retained I have proposed in the Trans. Ent. Soc 

 Phila., in a paper issued prior to my receipt of Mr. Morrison's 

 pamphlet. I have not, at this writing, the complete data before 

 me, though, I believe, I have priority; the question is not mate- 

 rial, for I have employed the name previously for a Californian 

 species, Dianthcecia rufula; and the validity of Boisdunal's 

 genus is disputable since the discovery of American forms. The 

 absence of the tibial spinule is omitted in Mr. Morrison's com- 

 parison with the European brassicee. 



Parastichtis minuscula (Morr.). 



<?. A small species with the genital process extended. This 

 is, though not prominently visible, the remarkable character in this 

 genus with naked, lashless eyes, and unarmed tibia?. The present 

 species has apparently no tufts on thorax, and none on abdomen ; 

 neither of my two specimens are, however, perfectly fresh. The 

 colors are somewhat like meditata. Dark lilac gray ; terminal 

 space contrastingly paler. A faint reddish tinge about median 

 space. The claviform is indicated by a black dash, which extends 

 across the median space. The lines are faint ; t. p. line very 

 sinuous, narrowing the median space. Reniform upright, narrow, 

 concolorous; orbicular ovate, oblique. Hind wings blackish- 

 fuscous, with paler fringes. Beneath dark, subirrorate ; hind 

 wings paler at base ; a reduced discal dot and very obscure double 

 common lines. Thorax like fore wings. 



Expanse 23 mm. Orillia, Mr. Geo. Norman, Nos. 399, 401, 

 Sept. 9. 



There is a faint resemblance to finitima in this much smaller 

 species. 



Fala, n. g. 



A form allied by the conformation of the clypeus to Stibadium 

 and Plagiomimicus. The front is entirely cup-shaped, excavate, 

 raised rim-like around the edges ; from the centre a broad wedge- 

 shaped horn or prominence arises. Tibice unarmed ; fore tibire 

 with a terminal claw. Eyes naked, unlashed. Thorax untufted; 

 28 




426 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



abdomen short, untufted. Primaries widening- outwardly, with 

 depressed costal margin. Antennae of the male simple, ciliate. 



Fala ptycophora, n. s. 



$ . Fore wings gray, shaded with ochreons, especially in two 

 stripes from the base outwardly across the disk, and downwardly 

 below median vein to internal angle. T. a. line geminate, deeply 

 and widely dentate. Orbicular shaded with white, rounded, annu- 

 late with blackish-brown. Reniform narrow, elongate, scroll- 

 shaped, white with brown annulus. Median space very wide, the 

 t. p. line very near the subterminal, geminate, regularly lunate, 

 not very distinct. Subterminal line shaded with blackish, and 

 preceded by some very prominent white-filled dentations infe- 

 riorly. Fringes dark, interrupted narrowly with pale opposite the 

 extremity of the veins. Hind wings fuscous, beneath with pro- 

 longed lunule and faint median line. Thorax and head mixed 

 gray and blackish; tegulie rather prominent, recalling allied genera. 



Expanse 32 mm. 



Hab. California. 



Heliothis luteitinctus, n. s. 



Allied to phlogophagus, from which it differs by the light yellow 

 hind wings, with a broad black lunule and black hind margin 

 interrupted in the usual place with yellow. Beneath both wings 

 clear yellow, on the hind wings the discal mark is larger than in 

 its ally, flask-shaped, narrowed superiorly, the terminal black band 

 is reduced to a black submedian patch. In color of primaries and 

 in their indistinct marking this species is very similar to phlogo- 

 phagus; the medium shade is, however, absent. 



Expanse 30 mm. Nebraska, Mr. Dodge, No. 51. 



Tarache augustipennis, n. s. 



With the colors ofbiplaga, this species resembles rather termi- 

 nimaculata in the shape of the wings; the primaries are slightly 

 produced at internal angle, and are unusually narrow; form 

 slenderer than in its ally. Thorax and head blackish ; palpi and 

 under surface of body and collar at base whitish. Fore wings 

 blackish, with a white stripe along median vein (and spreading 

 above it nearly to costal edge) to the place of the t. a. line. A 

 white curved fleck on the cell, sometimes connected with the basal 

 dash. A broad pre-apical white costal mark, and a narrower one 

 beyond it surmounting the whitish terminal space, where the 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 427 



whitish color extends backwards on internal margin to the curved 

 t. p. line, which is only visible inferiorly. A black terminal line ; 

 other ornamentation indistinct. Fringes long, interlined. Hind 

 wings pale fuscous, with whitish fringes. Beneath testaceous 

 whitish, glistening; primaries shaded medially with fuscous. 

 Abdomen whitish, yellowish at tip. 



Expanse 25 mm. Texas, Bosque Co., G. W. Belfrage, No. 493, 

 June 5. 



Catocala Alabamae, n. s. 



Allied to grynea (=nuptula, Walk.), but differing by the paler 

 primaries, which want the ferruginous tone on internal margin, 

 and in certain details of ornamentation. Size a little under grynea. 

 Primaries pale, but very slightly glaucous-gray. Lines black, not 

 brown. Transverse anterior distinct and running outwardly 

 obliquely to submedian fold, thence obsolete. Its shape is less 

 rounded than in grynea, and it is not so strongly denticulate ante- 

 riorly. Reniform vague, without distinct interior annulus, and 

 with a whitish exterior clouding. Transverse posterior line as in 

 grynea, but it does not extend so far backwards towards the t. a. 

 line at internal margin. Subterminal space shaded with obscure 

 brownish, inferiorly becoming blackish. Subterminal line whitish, 

 rather distinctly dentate. Terminal lunulated line distinct. Hind 

 wings a little brighter yellow than in grynea, with the band less 

 than half the width, very uneven, much constricted anteriorly, 

 running narrowly and unevenly nearly to internal margin. Basal 

 black hairs limited. Terminal band interrupted, allowing of a 

 larger apical yellow mark than in its ally. Beneath without any 

 traces of a basal transverse clouding or band on the fore wings, 

 else with a similarity to grynea. 



Expanse 42 mm. 



Hab. Demopolis, Ala. (A. R. Grote.) 



On pages 221-223 of the second volume of the Bulletin of the 

 Buffalo Societ} r of Natural Sciences, I have given the additional 

 species described since the publication of the List of North Ameri- 

 can Noctuida?. The number of species was thereby increased to 83. 

 Since that time five additional species have now been published, one 

 of which {editha) I have not seen. The five species are C. Ne- 

 braska?, Dodge, C. Editha, Ediv., C. Belfragiana, Harvey, C. 

 Verrilliana, Grote, C. Alabama?, Grote. 




428 PROCEEDINGS OE THE ACADEMY OF 



NOTES ON THE NOCTUID2E, WITH DESCRIPTIONS OF CERTAIN NEW 



SPECIES. NO. II. 



BY H. K. MORRISON. 



Arsilonche albovenosa, Goze. 



Leucania henrici, Grote. Bull. Buff. Soc. Nat. Sci., vol. i. p. 10. PI. 



1, fig. 15, 1873. 

 Leucania evanidwm, Grote, 1. c. fig. 16. 

 Ablepliaron henrici, Grote, 1. c. p. 112. 

 Ablepliaron evanidum, Grote, 1. c. p. 112. 

 Aberr. AM. ftanosum, Morr. 1. c. p. 275. 



We have sent to Dr. O. Staudinger, the eminent European 

 lepidopterist, specimens of Ablepliaron henrici, and he has pro- 

 nounced it identical with albovenosa ; specimens of the latter re- 

 ceived from him a short time ago have been compared with hen- 

 rici and evanidum, and confirm his decision ; the latter is the 

 form in which the interspaceal lines are almost obliterate, and 

 seems the most common here as well as in Europe; fumosum, 

 however, we now believe to be an aberration, in which the en- 

 tire wings are suffused with smoky black. Abl. absidum, Harvey, 

 we do not know, but if a good species, it should be referred to 

 Arsilonche. The place of this genus is at the head of the Noc- 

 tuidse, near Acronycta, not near Leucania ; this is confirmed by 

 the larva 1 , which have been observed in this country, as well as in 

 Europe. 



Panthea leucomelana, nov. sp. 



Expanse 40 mm. Length of body 14 mm. 



Eyes hairy. Head sunken. Thorax untufted, with coarse vil- 

 losity. Abdomen short and untufted. Tibia? unarmed. Antenna? 

 of the male testaceous, serrate, with a white tuft at the base. 

 Palpi very short and weak. Anterior wings white, crossed by 

 four black dentate lines; half line present; basal and interior 

 half of the median space white, crossed by the distinct well-defined 

 interior line, the orbicular spot appears as a black dot ; exterior 

 half of the median space black, with the exception of a space 

 above and around the small black encircled reniform spot ; exte- 

 rior line strongly dentate, and drawn in beneath the cell ; sub- 

 terminal line very irregular, preceded by a more or less distinct 

 diffuse black shade ; black shadings in the terminal space. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 429 



Posterior wings whitish, with the veins black, and two diffuse 

 irregular lines, one median the other subterminal. 



Beneath whitish, with black discal dots, the wings are crossed 

 b} 7 three black diffuse common lines. 



Hab. Maine. New Hampshire. 



Collection of H. K. Morrison. 



This insect is highly interesting, as being the second species 

 discovered of the genus Panthea, which until now has had only 

 one representative, the European P. coenobita. 



The two species have much in common, although there is con- 

 siderable difference in ornamentation, in the color of the antennae, 

 and in size. 

 Agrotis fernaldi, nov. sp. 



Expanse 41 mm. Length of body 18 mm. 



All the tibiae spinose. Collar having a black transverse line. 

 Pterygocles gray, edged with brown. Thorax gray. Abdomen 

 yellowish. Anterior wings dark and light gray, shaded in parts 

 with brown, and with all the markings very distinct ; a short 

 basal dash, bej-ond it and at the costa the basal space is shaded 

 with brown ; interior line light gray, with a black accompanying 

 line, outwardly oblique from the costa to the subcostal vein, in- 

 wardly oblique from the subcostal vein to the submedian vein, and 

 below this vein forming a long projecting tooth ; claviform spot 

 outlined in black, ordinary spots large, contrasting, and filled with 

 light gray, the orbicular preceded by a black shade, and the space 

 between it and the reniform black ; exterior line even and con- 

 tinued, black, followed by a light gray shade line; subterminal 

 space dark, terminal space light, and contrasting. 



Posterior wings grayish-fuscous, culminating in a subterminal 

 dark gray shade, terminal space very light. 



Beneath, nearly uniform grayish-fuscous, traces of a median 

 line and discal dots on the posterior wings. 



Hab. Orono, Maine. (From Prof. C. H. Fernald.) 



I dedicate this superb species to its discoverer, the professor of 

 natural history at the Maine Agricultural College. 



Agrotis tristicula, nov. sp. 



Expanse 40 mm. Length of body 19 mm. 



All the tibiae spinose. Antennae in the male serrate. Collar 

 with a heavy, black, transverse line. Head and thorax purely 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



gray. Anterior wings gray, the transverse lines nearly obsolete ; 

 a distinct, long, black, basal dash ; ordinary spots as well as the 

 costal region slightly lighter than the ground, the former having 

 partially effaced black annuli, the space between them dark ; 

 transverse lines, where present, geminate ; a series of snbterminal 

 cuneiform spots replacing the usual line, a lobate line at the base 

 of the concolorous fringe. 



Posterior wings light at the base, darker towards the margin, 

 fringe light. Under surface unmarked. 



Hab. Orono, Maine. (Prof. C. H. Fernald.) 



Agrotis hortulana, nov. sp. 



Expanse 3t mm. Length of body 15 mm. 



Eyes naked. Antennas of the male serrate, with the serrations 

 pubescent. Front and vertex yellow-brown. Collar with a brown 

 central line. Thorax yellowish-gray, with a dorsal divided tuft. 

 Abdomen rounded, untufted, the lateral tufts brownish. 



Anterior wings uniform, faded yellow-gray, with the ordinary 

 markings nearly obsolete ; veins darker than the ground ; traces 

 of the ordinary spots ; the subterminal line is faintly seen, pre- 

 ceded by a series of faded cuneiform marks. Posterior wings 

 white. Wings beneath uniform whitish-gray. 

 Hab. San Francisco, Cal. (Mr. A. Agassiz). 

 From one specimen in the Museum of Comparative Zoology. 

 This species seems to be distinct from the numerous Califor- 

 nian species published by Mr. Grote, many of which are unknown 

 to me. 

 Mamestra quadrannulata, nov. sp. 



Expanse 30 mm. Length of body 15 mm. 



Eyes hairy. Front, palpi, collar, and prothorax black, shading 

 to gray towards the abdomen. Abdomen gray. Basal and me- 

 dian spaces of the anterior wings crossed by two broad longi- 

 tudinal yellow-brown bands, one costal, the other extending 

 along the inner margin ; these bands inclose a central triangular 

 purple-gray or purple-black space, in the upper part of which the 

 two ordinary spots are seen, very small, of the same size, con- 

 colorous, surrounded by incomplete intense white annuli ; a long 

 black basal dash reaching to the small black encircled claviform 

 spot ; median transverse lines entirely obsolete; subterminal line 

 consisting of a series of white dots, preceded by black cuneiform 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 431 



dashes ; a black line checked with white at the base of the black 

 fringe. 



Posterior wings gray at the base, with a dark terminal border, 

 fringe white. Anterior wings beneath black; posterior wings 

 white, with a dark costal and terminal border. Abdomen un- 

 til f ted. 



Hab. Glencoe, Dodge Co., Nebraska. 



From Mr. G. M. Dodge (No. 38). 



The form of the basal dash and the very conspicuous ordinary 

 spots will quickly distinguish this species. 



Hadena minuscula, Morr. 



Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. xvii. p. 147 (Orthosia). 



This species is allied to the European Hadena literosa. The 

 reference to Orthosia was caused by the defective condition of the 

 type. 



Metahadena, nov. gen. 



. Antennae simple. Eyes naked. Ocelli present. Palpi 

 upright, short, stout, and thickly clothed, the terminal joint small 

 and rounded. Front rounded, a small, white scale tuft at the 

 base of the antennas. Collar rounded, produced in the middle, 

 formiug a slight elevation. Thorax smooth, clothed with mingled 

 scales and hair, no metathoracic tuft. Abdomen untufted. Tibiae 

 unarmed. 



M. atrifasciata (nov. sp.). 



Expanse 35 mm. Length of body 14 mm. 



Head, thorax, and abdomen black. Anterior wings cinereous, 

 the median space black ; half line present ; interior line obliquely 

 outwardly curved, bounding the median black space ; ordinary 

 spots obsolete ; exterior line evenly inwardly curved ; traces of 

 the subterminal line, which is preceded before the costa by a 

 black shade ; the veinlets in the terminal and subterminal spaces 

 finely marked with black. 



Posterior wings pure white at the base, an even very broad 

 black terminal band. 



Beneath, the anterior wings are black, the posterior wings have 

 the markings above reproduced, but the terminal band is nar- 

 rower. 



Hab. Orono, Maine. (Prof. C. H. Fernald.) 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



This beautiful species can easily be distinguished by the vivid 

 contrast of its colors. 

 Tapinostola variana, nov. sp. 



Expanse 27 mm. Length of body 14 mm. 



Eyes naked. Legs unarmed. Thorax and abdomen untufted. 



Anterior wings having all the nervules white and contrasting, 

 and the spaces between them filled with black, brown, or yellow 

 lonoitudinal streaks ; the median vein is accompanied and set off 

 with black, behind it a distinct yellow streak, and below this a 

 heavy black one; a black line at the base of the concolorous 

 fringe. Posterior wings uniformly gray. Beneath gray. 



Nab. Detroit, Mich. (Hubbard). 



From specimens in the Museum of Comparative Zoology and 

 collection of H. K. Morrison. 



The material is in very poor condition, but we believe the spe- 

 cies should be referred to this genus, not hitherto represented in 

 our fauna. 



Dyschorista gentilis (Grote). 



Tasniosea gentilis, Grote. Bull. Buff. Soc. Nat. Sci., ii. p. 143-144, 

 1874. 



We have received from Dr. Staudinger specimens of the two 

 European species of Dyschorista, Led.; we find D. suspecta to be 

 very closely allied to our gentilis, and, we believe, identical with 

 it, but until more material is received and compared we retain 

 them under separate names. Tseniosea perbellis, described by 

 Mr. Grote in the same paper, should also be referred to Dys- 

 chorista. 

 Tseniocampa vegeta, nov. sp. 



Expanse 38 mm. Length of body 18 mm. 



Eyes hairy. Antennse slightly pectinate, white. Palpi ascend- 

 ing, below brown, above white, the third joint rather long. 

 Thorax and abdomen untufted. 



Anterior wings and thorax brown, with dull blackish shades 

 along the veins and costa ; ordinary lines darker brown, accom- 

 panied by a light shade, the interior line arcuate, the exterior 

 deeply and abruptly drawn in beneath the reniform spot ; orbicu- 

 lar spot obsolete, reniform darker than the ground, well sized ; 

 two black distinct spots on the subterminal line before the apex, 

 otherwise the line is indistinct; fringe concolorous. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 433 



Posterior wings blackish-gray, lighter at the base ; fringe white 

 at the anal angle. 



Beneath whitish, covered with gray atoms, distinct discal spots, 

 and traces of a subterminal band. 



Hab. Dallas, Texas (Boll). 



From collection of H. K. Morrison. 



We refer this species to this genus for the present, although it 

 offers certain structural differences which, perhaps, will require 

 its separation in the future. 



Orthosia immaculata, nov. sp. 



Expanse 3*7 mm. Length of body It mm. 



Eyes apparently naked, with strong lashes. Antennae of the 

 male pubescent. 



Head and thorax reddish-brown, the latter smooth and without 

 dorsal tufts. Abdomen short and untufted. Tibiae unarmed. 



Anterior wings uniform reddish-brown, having the lines obso- 

 lete ; the ordinary spots small, black, and obscure ; fringe red, 

 preceded by a suffused black terminal band. 



Posterior wings brownish-fuscous, the veins red; fringe also 

 red, tipped with white. 



Beneath both wings are uniform brownish-fuscous, with the 

 veins and costre reddish. 



Hab. South Nevada (Crotch). 



From the Museum of Comparative Zoolog}'. 



The head of the single specimen examined is mouldy, but the 

 eyes appear to be naked. 



On the Occurrence of Orthosia' Lota in America. Mr. W. Y. 

 Andrews, of Brooklyn, has been so kind as to send me from his 

 collection a specimen taken in New Jersey, which possesses the 

 greatest interest, being the only example known at present of the 

 species mentioned b}^ M. Guenee in the following extract: 



"J'ai sous les }^eux un dessin representant une Orthosie ameri- 

 caine qui parait completement identique avec notre Lota ; mais la 

 chenille, qui est figuree aupres, n'a pas le moindre rapport avec la 

 notre. Elle est d'un jaune d'ocre clair, avec deux bandes dorsales 

 rousses, liserees de noir des deux cotes, et deux lignes rousses 

 paralleles au-dessus de la stigmatule. Les trapezoidaux ne sont 

 pas visibles Si Abbot n'a pas coramis l'erreur, la Lota ainericiane 




434 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



est une espece toute differente, malgre sa ressemblance avec celle 

 d'Europe." 



M. Gucnee states that Abbot's figure of the American Ortho- 

 sia seemed entirely identical with the European Lota; some allow- 

 ance should be made, however, for the necessary imperfection of 

 a drawing, which, though giving the general impression of the 

 insect, would be likely to omit the nice shades and markings of so 

 great importance in its correct determination. 



In fact the American specimen before me, compared with a 

 large number of the true lota, presents many differences, which 

 together with the entire dissimilarity of the larvae (in case Ab- 

 bot's observations are verified) seem to require a separate desig- 

 nation. I propose therefore the name Orthosia americana. 



These are the differences between the perfect insects : in 0. am- 

 ericana the ground color is suffused with carneous and less purely 

 grayish than in 0. lota ; the transverse lines are less distinct ; the 

 orbicular spot is upright and figure of eight shaped, formed of 

 two annuli just touching, not a single very oblique narrow annulus ; 

 the reniform spot is wider, larger, and more distinctly quadrangu- 

 lar; the light subterminal line is more evident, distinctly bent 

 below the middle, and having two slight projections correspond- 

 ing to the usual teeth, and in particular it is preceded by a broad 

 conspicuous red shade, instead of a narrow linear one; and finally 

 on the under surface of the posterior wings the median line is 

 narrow and twice undulate, not broad and nearly curved. 



The question cannot be considered as settled until the larva of 

 0. americana is discovered and compared with that of 0. lota, but 

 for the present the presumption is in favor of the distinctness of 

 the species. 

 Thalpochares carmelita (nov. sp.)- 



Expanse 15 mm. Length of body V mm. 



Eyes naked. Ocelli present. Head, thorax, and abdomen 

 slender, white. 



Anterior wings white, having a strong tooth at about the 

 middle of the inner margin, as is seen on a much larger scale in 

 Cahjpe and some European species of Lophopteryx ; costal por- 

 tion of the basal space olivaceous; the wings are crossed by two 

 suffuse broad dull olivaceous bands, the first reaching the inner 

 margin at the tooth, the second or subterminal line crosses the 

 wing at the usual place ; it is followed by two black dots, one at 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 435 



the apex, the other at the inner angle ; the exterior line is faintly 

 seen between the two bands ; reniform spot obsolete; the orbicular 

 present as a black dot. Posterior wings white, with a faint 

 terminal border. 



Beneath white; the anterior wings with a broad black costal 

 border; posterior wings with a series of black dots at the base of 

 the fringe. 



Eab. Dallas, Texas (Mr. Boll). 



From the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Cambridge. 



Notwithstanding the peculiar tooth on the margin of this 

 species, it appears to be congeneric with the European T. paula, 

 which it resembles in size and markings. 



Syneda ingeniculata, nov. sp. 



Expanse 38 mm. Length of body 14 mm. 



Anterior wings bright gray, covered with numerous darker gray 

 atoms, subterminal space dark ; half-line present ; interior line 

 black, even, and arcuate, accompanied by a reddish shade ; exte- 

 rior line with a similar shade, black, dentate opposite the reniform 

 spot, below which it is sharply drawn in, nearly touching the base 

 of the spot and then continuing obliquely to the inner margin ; 

 reniform spot consisting of an inner straight line followed by a 

 round black spot; orbicular spot absent; subterminal line whitish 

 and irregular ; fringe whitish at the apex and inner angle, other- 

 wise nearly concolorous. 



Posterior wings bright scarlet, with a very heavy black quad- 

 rangular discal spot, a subterminal line, bi'oken in the middle, and 

 a terminal band, becoming obsolete before the anal angle. 



Beneath the anterior wings are whitish, with the basal space 

 slightly red, a heavy oblique transverse black median line, touch- 

 ing below a rounded subterminal band, this is followed by a heav} 7 

 terminal band becoming obsolete before the inner angle ; posterior 

 wings the same as above, but the costa is white instead of scarlet. 



Hab. Dallas, Texas (Boll). 



From the Museum of Comparative Zoology. 



This species is allied to S. hoivlandi, Grote, from Colorado, 

 but differs in important particulars. 



Homoptera galbanata, nov. sp. 



Expanse 38 mm. Length of body 15 mm. 



This is a small species closely allied to H. edusina from Texas, 

 described by Dr. Harve}-. 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



I have compared the present species with specimens of the lat- 

 ter in the Museum of Comparative Zoology, and find them distinct. 



In galbanata the middle abdominal tuft is much larger than the 

 others, the whole insect is also larger, its color more uniformly 

 gray, and the ordinary undulating transverse lines differ in their 

 intensity and course from those of its ally. 



Head and thorax gray, faintly mottled with white and black. 



Tegulae shaped as in related species, wings gra} r , covered by 

 numerous dark gray undulating lines ; basal space dark gray, in- 

 terior line oblique, between it and the exterior line two undulating 

 lines, one of which passes before, the other around the distinct 

 reniform spot ; exterior line black and well defined, forming a 

 prominent indentation opposite the reniform spot ; the terminal 

 and subterminal lines followed by slight dull yellowish shades; 

 markings of the posterior wings corresponding to those of the 

 anteriors, except that the basal lines are absent and that there 

 are two black subparallel median lines, most prominent at the anal 

 angle. 



Beneath gray, with distinct discal dots and a common black 

 median line (in this respect differing from the Texan species). 



Hab. Glencoe, Nebraska. 



From Mr. G. M. Dodge (No. 48). 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 437 



November 2. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 







Twenty-eight members present. 



Natural Hybrids. Quercus heterophylla, Mx. Mr. Thomas 

 Meehan said, that in reference to the minutes of the last meeting 

 just read, he might offer a few additional remarks on Q. hetero- 

 phylla, and its connection with Q. Phellos. It was a subject 

 of much interest equally to the mere botanist, the student of the 

 origin of species, and to those who were investigating the fre- 

 quency or otherwise with which hybrids occurred in nature. 



He doubted, he said, whether hybrids often occurred naturally, 

 and yet with the supposed abhorrence of plants to use their own 

 pollen, and the consequent imitation which they extended to 

 foreign pollen to fertilize them, it would be remarkable if some 

 instances of hybridism did not occur, and perhaps remarkable 

 that it did not occur oftener than it was supposed to do. It was 

 such questions as these which gave the supposed hybrid origin of 

 this oak its chief interest. In this connection he referred to the 

 number of the Revue Scientifique then on the table, with an ab- 

 stract of some remarks of M. Ch. Naudin before the Academy of 

 Sciences of Paris, in which he says, that, of a large number of cases 

 of hybrids that he had experimented with, only two retained their 

 hybrid forms beyond two generations, and these two, grasses of 

 the genus JEgilops, lost their respective forms, and reverted to 

 that of the original female parent in four generations. 



Mr. Meehan said that the original tree described by Michaux 

 grew on the original Bartram estate. That tree had long since 

 been destined; but there were now large trees, both at Bartram's 

 and Marshall's, which were said by the late Col. Carr, who had 

 married Miss Bartram, and up to comparatively recent years 

 owned the garden, to be seedlings from that original tree. If this 

 were correct, it would sustain Naudin's views, as these trees were 

 so like the willow oak as to be scarcely distinguishable. They 

 only differ from the willow oak, in an occasional lobing of the 

 leaf, a matter of little consequence in determining a species in 

 this genus. It is more than likely, for reasons he would presently 

 state, that William Bartram found 3 7 oung plants witli lobed leaves 

 growing, and transplanted them to his garden, believing them to 

 have been seedlings of the Q. heterophylla, and not that they 

 were from seed actually gathered from the tree. 



In his description Michaux speaks of it as probably having Q. 

 imhricario, for one of its parents, but there is no proof nor pro- 

 bability that this species ever grew in these parts. It could not 




438 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



then be considered in this relation. Moreover, hybrids, which 

 cannot necessarily be abundant in nature, or there would not be 

 the order we see, seldom come in more than one place, or if so, be 

 exactly alike, and yet investigation shows this form to be by no 

 means uncommon. Michaux rashly undertakes to say that there 

 is not another tree to be found within a hundred miles of Phila- 

 delphia, yet Professor Buckley found one in a single daj^'s botan- 

 izing in New Jersey near Camden, as recorded in our Proceedings ; 

 he had himself found it during one day's botanizing in Delaware 

 as recorded in Gray's manual. Professor Leidy, Mr Smith, Mr. 

 Cope, and Mr. Burk have found it in New Jersey, and there were 

 now on the table specimens gathered by the latter gentleman 

 near Woodbury, who had found two trees on this occasion, and 

 had seen quite a number on other occasions. There is no 

 doubt that when these casual visitors meet with trees, there is no 

 great scarcity, and this is not in accordance with what we have to 

 expect from hybrid trees. 



Now as we see in these specimens of Mr. Burk, as well as in 

 the original drawing in Michaux, the venation is wholly distinct 

 from Quercus Phellos, and Q. imbricaria, and it is here that we 

 find the best characters for distinguishing the species of oak. 

 There is a petiole nearly an inch long in these specimens, and also 

 in Michaux's drawing, and more or less of a petiole in all the 

 specimens he had seen; and, while the leaves of the Q. Phedos 

 are thin, those of Q. heterophylla are coriaceous. A hybrid unites 

 the characters of two parents, but there were no two parents here 

 in the North which could unite and form a character like this, 

 and so the supposed Bartram and Marshall progenies are out of 

 the question. 



In the monograph on Gupuliferse by Alphonse De Condolle in 

 the Prodromus, this oak is made a form of Q. aquatica. This 

 suggestion, misled by the probably historical error in regard to 

 the living Bartram tree, he had regarded as preposterous, and he 

 believed most North American botanists had agreed with him. 

 The forms of leaf most familiar to Quercologists, in Quercus aqua- 

 tica, were the triangularly wedge-shaped, nearly sessile ones, com- 

 mon in the South on mature trees. But further north, and in 

 young and vigorous frees south, the leaves were petiolate, ap- 

 proaching those now exhibited by Mr. Burk. Besides this there 

 was in Michaux's figure an outline of one of these forms of leaves, 

 which one could see by comparison with his figure of Q. hetero- 

 phylla to be the same. The habit of growth of the trees of Q.- 

 aquatica is very distinct from that of Q. Phellos, and Mr. Burk 

 reports these trees in New Jersey to be so distinct from the Q. 

 Phellos among which they grow, that he can distinguish them a 

 long distance away. The only remaining difficulties to students 

 would be that De Candolle classes Q. aquatica, variety heterophylla, 

 among the " sempervirentes" while we know it is deciduous, and 

 then that it is a too high northern range fortius species. The first 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 439 



difficulty he could dispose of. He had had in his garden for a 

 number of years a Quercus aquatica from seed gathered near 

 Vicksburg, where it was evergreen. But with him the same tree 

 was deciduous. In regard to the range, De Candolle noted on 

 the authority of Michaux that it grew in Maryland, and Mr. Can- 

 by reports it common in Delaware. This brings the range of the 

 species up to our doors. 



It is therefore clear that Quercus heterophylla is simply an 

 outpost in the camp of Quercus aquatica, barely indeed ranking 

 as a variety ; and the result of our investigation is a tribute to 

 the remarkable acumen of Alphonse De Candolle, who, with so 

 little material before him, was able to guide us who had it all. 



Hybrid Juglans. Mr. Meehan, continuing his remarks on natu- 

 ral hybrids, exhibited a fruit from a tree growing near Mead vi lie, 

 Pennsylvania, and handed him by Alfred Huidekoper of that 

 place. The fruit was of the oval form of J. cathartica (Butternut), 

 but had the comparatively smooth surface of J. nigra (Black 

 walnut), and was quite destitute of viscous glands. It was be- 

 lieved to be a natural hybrid between these two species. 



Hybrids of Pyrus Sinensis. Not exactly as natural hybrids, 

 continued Mr. Meehan, but yet as hybrids without intention by 

 man, were some pears he now exhibited, raised by Mr. Peter Kie- 

 fer of this place. For near twenty-five years Mr. K. had grown 

 the Pyrus Sinensis, or Chinese sand pear, and for some years 

 past had been fruiting seedlings from the original tree, and these 

 have fruit uniformly the same as its parent, and as they seem to 

 do in other parts of the world. Mr. Meehan exhibited a fruit and 

 compared it with a figure in a recent number of the Gardener's 

 Chronicle of London, then lying on the table, the two as similar 

 as if the specimen had been used as copy for the sketch. Some 

 years ago a Flemish beauty pear, a well-known variety of our com- 

 mon garden fruit, had flowered in close proximity, and since then 

 pears mixed in character had been raised from this supposed to 

 be hybrid seeds. The specimens exhibited by Mr. Meehan were 

 much larger than the sand pear, the female parent, and as large 

 as the average Flemish beauty of our markets ; the red cheeks, and 

 fine lemon color, being rather more beautiful than the average of 

 Flemish beauty, though this kind is popular as a particularly hand- 

 some fruit. 



November 9. 

 Dr. LeConte, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-three members present. 



A paper entitled " On a New Genus of Lophobranchiate Fishes," 

 by Edw. D. Cope, was presented for publication. 




)> 



440 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



November 16. 

 The President, Dr. Rtjschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-seven members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" Descriptions of New Fossil Shells from the Tertiary of Califor 



nia." By R. E. C. Stearns. 



" A Descriptive Catalogue of Scalidse of theWest India Islands 



By 0. A. L. Morch. 



On Trichocephalus affinis, Dies. Dr. Chapman noticed having 

 found in the intestine of the llama the Trichocephalus affinis de- 

 scribed by Diesing as occurring in the camel, and observed that 

 it was interesting to find the same intestinal worm in animals so 

 closely related structurally, though so widely separated geogra- 

 phically. 



On the Castor Glands of the Beaver. Dr. Chapman also called 

 attention to the arrangement of the castor glands in the American 

 beaver, the lower symmetrical glands opening into the ano-pre- 

 putial passage consisting of only two glands, whereas the European 

 species in this respect exhibited three. 



November 23. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Seventeen members present. 



On the Mesozoic Red Sandstone of the Atlantic States. Prof. 

 Persifor Frazer, Jr., said that the art of stratigraphy has proved 

 itself capable of most wonderful extension, and has given the 

 foundation for whatever of exactitude of statement can be claimed 

 for geology. 



It is another instance of the surprising lengths to which proba- 

 bility can be carried by inductive reasoning based on compara- 

 tively few but generally admitted premises. It is surprising to 

 read over the results of the application of this method in any 

 general outline of geology, and to note that mere relative position 

 of things can unfold to us a marvellous story of motion, and 

 evolution or successive changes, according to law. 



The more facts we know the wider is the range of this applica- 

 tion, and sometimes one very little fact well established will require 

 vast continents to be plunged in the imagination thousands of feet 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



downward or upward in order that it may admit of explanation. 

 Thus the finding of a single small shell imbedded in the crest of 

 a lofty range of interior mountains of which the base, flanks, and 

 comb prove to be made up respectively of the same persistent 

 strata, and the identification of this shell with an exclusively 

 marine species, require the conclusion that the whole of this lofty 

 range was once under an ocean whose level was thousands of feet 

 lower, and whose margin is now thousands of miles away. 



The greatest conquests of the mind over large areas will never 

 result from the direct application of the physical power of man to 

 overcome the obstacles which stand in the way of their realization. 

 The inductive plan, though never leading to certainty, outstrips 

 by leagues the snail's pace of actual demonstration. A good 

 consulting geologist will furnish information in a few weeks as to 

 the number of tons of valuable mineral on a property, which will 

 enable a company to organize, start its business, grow rich, and 

 bequeath its industry to a new generation before a theory-hater 

 could sink the number of trial shafts sufficient to demonstrate 

 to a certainty that the deposit was continuous. And thus what 

 with reports already made on adjoining properties, science goes 

 on triangulating, as it were, from one area to another, till the belts 

 of country which are unknown as to their general possibilities 

 become very few and isolated. 



But there are such belts aggravating broad belts of well-settled 

 country which occupy in the geological finished map the positions 

 which used to be held by the ''Great American Desert," the central 

 parts of Africa, and the high lands of the Mountains of the Moon 

 or the Himalayas in our school geographies. 



It is not so long ago since it was taught in school-books that 

 the bottom of the ocean was a great floor of fine sand. The writers, 

 following each other, had observed the deposition of suspended 

 substances in the deltas and along the sea coast, and observing 

 the currents of the sea, and forgetting that the immense organic 

 life of the ocean must find a final resting place, had dusted the 

 whole ocean with the sand of the sea-shore but without its shells. 



Such an area is the Mesozoic red sandstone of the Atlantic 

 States. It sweeps upward from Virginia to New York, and exists 

 in North Carolina and Connecticut, appearing eveiy where (except 

 in N. C.) under a provoking uniformity of condition, and shut- 

 ting out our view from the underlying strata, and the part they 

 play in connecting the paleozoic series east and west of it. Singu- 

 larly enough, a large fraction of the American geologists who have 

 made themselves distinguished have passed or are passing their 

 lives upon it; and yet we know next to nothing about it. 



" If the Mesozoic shales only could be removed l'ike the lid of a 



box, what light would it not throw upon the structural riddles !" 



has been thought or expressed by every geologist. Here is a 



case where the ordinary methods of stratigraphy will not help us. 



29 




442 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



We are required to induce a condition of things under cover 

 different from that in view. 



The case is like that of the condition of the Atlantic bottom. 

 No amount of wishing, in cottages by the sea (aut aliubi) availed 

 to solve the problem till Lieut. Thompson, U. S. N., invented his 

 deep-sea dredger, and masses of cretaceous ooze commenced to be 

 hauled up. We must do the same with the diamond drills in the 

 N\\v Red. But it paid to dredge because this act was a necessary 

 preliminaiy to the union of two impatient continents by a tele- 

 graph line. What will pay here ? That is a question which no 

 one can answer just now. It is just an instance of the old contro- 

 versy between narrow utilitarianism and enlightened economy: 

 whether a property owner is wise in neglecting all parts of his 

 estate except those which tradition assures him will pa}', or 

 whether, in the profit and loss account in which he enters general 

 expenditures for the proper exploitation and development of his 

 entire domain, the profits do not in the end outweigh the losses. 



Here, of course, another element is introduced into the ques- 

 tion. Is there anj' doubt about the establishment one way or the 

 other of a fact which will enter into scientific calculations ? Was 

 ever such a fact so used barren of economical gain in the end ? 

 Will it pay for the State Government to spend the money of the 

 whole people for such a purpose ? Is it in accordance with the 

 doctrine of " police government" held by an able school of ad- 

 vanced political economists? 



On Dialysis in Oyster Culture. Prof. Frazer also remarked, 

 that, in a recent conversation with Dr. Hunt on the subject of the 

 effect of saline solutions in the human stomach and intestine, that 

 gentleman suggested as his explanation of that effect, that it was 

 primarily mechanical or physical; consisting in fact of a dialytic 

 action set up between the denser solution in the stomach, and the 

 less dense solutions in the tissues and lacteals communicating 

 with it; the walls of the stomach and intestine forming the diah ser 

 or diaphragm through which the action takes place. The result 

 of such diffusion must (he suggests), in accordance with Graham's 

 well-known law, produce a greater flow of the less dense solutions 

 inward than of the denser outward from the stomach ; and as a 

 consequence, the filling of the latter and the draining of the small 

 ducts. 



That repletion produces, by reflex action on the nerves occupy- 

 ing that portion of the human body, the further effects observed, 

 is well known. 



There is another practical application which can be made of 

 this theory of dialytic action, no less important in its bearings, 

 and which has an economic value, viz., the fattening of oysters. 



The oysters brought to our large markets on the Atlantic sea- 

 board are generally first subjected to a process of "laying out," 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 443 



which consists in placing them for a short time in fresher water 

 than that from which they have been taken. 



Persons who are fond of this animal as an article of food, know 

 how much the " fresh" exceed the " salts" in size and consistency. 

 The "Morris Coves" of this city, while very insipid, are the 

 plumpest bivalve brought to market. On the other hand, the 

 " Absecoms" and "Brigan tines," while of better flavor (to those 

 who prefer salt oysters), are invariably lean compared to their 

 transplanted rivals, as also are the "Cape Mays," though, from 

 some reason, not to the same extent. 



The naost experienced oyster dealers inform me, that the time 

 for allowing the salt oysters taken from the sea-coast to lie out, 

 varies, but is seldom over two to three days. At the end of this 

 time the maximum plumpness is attained, and beyond this, the 

 oyster becomes lean again, besides having lost in flavor. 



It is not possible that the smooth rotundity of the laid-out 

 03'ster can be due to increase of flesh. The time is too short, 

 and the conditions are unfavorable. 



On the other hand, the explanation by dialytic action is easy. 

 During the growth of the oyster on the sea-coast, his tissues are 

 constantly saturated with the ocean brine. On removing this 

 oyster to merely brackish, or to fresh water, the conditions are 

 at once favorable for osmose to be commenced. The fresher and 

 less dense liquid without, permeates inwards more rapidly than 

 the more saline and denser liquids within escape, and the effect 

 is to swell the tissue as a cow's bladder half filled with air and 

 immersed in a vessel of h} r drogen is swollen, or still more nearly 

 like the swelling of a bladder half filled with copper sulphate 

 when immersed in pure water. 



It is worth while to inquire whether means could not be devised 

 to effect this fattening, while yet not depriving the oyster of the 

 salty flavor which is its chief charm to many consumers. Per- 

 haps an immersion in concentrated brine for several days, and its 

 subsequent removal to ocean water, would suffice. As to the 

 value of placing corn-meal upon a pile of 03*sters for the purpose 

 of fattening them, it is obvious that the time is too short. A 

 simple way of ascertaining whether there were or not an actual 

 gain in flesh, would be by taking a hundred or more oysters from 

 a given locality on the sea-coast, drying them at 220 Fah., and 

 ascertaining their average weight, and repeating the process for the 

 same number of like oysters after transplanting. 




444 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



November 30. 

 The President, Dr. Puschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty members present. 



On Heat and Chemical Action. Prof. Persifor Frazer, Jr., 

 stated that Prof. Hunt, in chemical and geological essays No. 

 VII , " On Some Points in Dynamical Geology," p. 77, after speak- 

 ing of his adoption of Babbage's and Herschel's hypothesis of an 

 igneous centre, adds that Kefersbein rejects this hypothesis as 

 unnecessary, and Joseph Le Conte proposes an intermediate view 

 that heat from a molten centre invading the sedimentary inter- 

 mediate layers may excite chemical activity, which in turn would 

 augment the temperature. He concludes, " it is, however, I think, 

 probable that any chemical processes which may be set up in the 

 buried sediments for their conversion into igneous rocks and vol- 

 canic products would absorb rather than generate heat." 



The mere conversion of silicates from the solid to the liquid, or, 

 if it be possible, gaseous states, is not chemical action ; and hence 

 fusion or vaporization, which undoubtedly would lower the tem- 

 perature by its great absorption of heat, cannot be referred to 

 here, and it seems at first sight rather difficult to say what form 

 of chemical action except dissociation, if that can be called such 

 would absorb heat, or upon what phenomena this statement is 

 based. 



On the supposed Carnivora of the Eocene of the Rocky Moun- 

 tains. Prof. Cope remarked that animals which fulfilled the func- 

 tions of the existing Carnivora were abundant in North America 

 during the Eocene period. The Wahsatch beds of New Mexico 

 have yielded remains of more than a dozen species, which ranged 

 from the size of a weasel to that of a jaguar. Investigation into 

 tht' structure of these shows that while they differ in minor points 

 among themselves, they agree in possessing characters which dis- 

 tinguish them from the true Carnivora. I have already pointed 

 out,' that, in the genera Ambloctonus, Oxyxna, Stypolophus, and 

 Didymictis, the tibio-tarsal articulation differs from that of the 

 existing Carnivora, and suggested that these forms might prove 

 to be gigantic Insectivora. Further investigation has satisfied 

 me that they cannot be included in the order Carnivora, and their 

 systematic position proves to be of considerable interest. 



A greater or less part of the cranial chamber is preserved in 

 specimens of Oxysena forci]Kita and Stypolophus Mans. In these 



1 Systematic Catalogue of the Vertebrata of the Eocene of New Mexico, 

 L875, p. 7. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 445 



animals it has a long, narrow form like that of the opossum, and 

 in the first named, where the interior form can be seen, it is evi- 

 dent that the cerebral hemispheres were small and narrow, and that 

 the olfactory lobes were relatively large, and were entirely un- 

 covered, projecting beyond the hemispheres. 



In Ambloctonus, Didymictis, and three undetermined forms, the 

 femur supports a third trochanter. In all the genera the ilium 

 has a well-marked external anterior ridge, which continues from 

 the acetabulum to the crest, distinct from the internal anterior 

 ridge. The ilium has, therefore, an angulate or convex external 

 face, as in Insectivora and Marsupial ia, and does not display the 

 usual expansion in a single plane of most of the placentals. In 

 all the genera there is a strong tuberosity in the position of the 

 anterior inferior spine, which is wanting in the Mammalia, except- 

 ing certain Insectivora and Prosimise, 1 although it marks the posi- 

 tion of the origin of the rectus femoris muscle in all types. 



The glenoid cavity of the squamosal bone is transverse, and 

 well defined anteriorly and posteriori}-, as in the Carnivora. Of 

 the first series of carpal hones of the four genera named, I have 

 been able to learn nothing, but in the genus Synoplotherium from 

 the Bridger Eocene of Wyoming, which probably belongs to this 

 group, the scaphoid and lunar bones are separate and not united 

 as in the Carnivora. 



The above characters point to the Marsupialia or the Insec- 

 tivora as the proper location for the flesh-eaters under considera- 

 tion ; and the evidence is much more weighty in favor of the lat- 

 ter order as their true position. For in the genera Oxysena and 

 Didymictis the posterior part of the inferior border of the mandi- 

 bular ramus is not inflected as in Marsupialia, nor are the ante- 

 rior inferior iliac tuberosity and third trochanter seen in that or- 

 der, while both exist in the Insectivora. 



Cuvier describes 2 the tibia of Carnivora as follows: "Quanta 

 la tete infe'rieure, tous les carnassiers se distinguent de l'homme 

 par sa figure plus etroite du cote externe que le l'interne, et par sa 

 division en deux fosses oblique, an moyen d'une arete arrondie 

 qui repond a la partie de l'astragale. . . Le phoque l'a cepen- 

 dant d'une forme tres-particuliere par l'excessif aplatissement de 

 sa moitie superieure, et par sa facette particulaire inferieure, qui 

 est en concavite simple et pen profounde." 



The astrag-alar articular face of the tibia in the genera above 

 named is not divided into the two oblique fossae by " a rounded 

 crest which is applied to the groove of the superior pull} r -shaped 

 face of the astragalus." It is uninterrupted and more or less ob- 

 lique in the transverse direction ; always so at the posterior bor- 

 der. The inner malleolar process is produced downwards, and 

 rests in a concavity on the inner side of the neck of the astragalus. 



1 See the figure of Solenodon by Peters, and Chiromys by Owen. 



2 Ossemens Fossiles, vii. p. 112. 




446 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The astragalus, which I have seen in several of the species, pre- 

 sents a corresponding trochlear face. That is, instead of a groove, 

 it presents an open angle upwards, which separates the superior 

 from the oblique internal face. The superior plane is flat, but is 

 interrupted on the posterior side by a groove. This groove is the 

 posterior extremity of that which divides the superior face of the 

 astragalus in the higher Mammalia, but here it contracts to a 

 point and disappears next the fibular face just as it reaches the 

 superior surface. The fibular face is vertical, and shares on its 

 posterior part a large ligamentous fossa with the opposed part of 

 the fibula. The distal end of the fibula is remarkably stout. 



This structure finds its counterpart in the internal half of the 

 astragalus of the opossum. The arrangement permits a rotary 

 movement of the astragalus and thus of the whole foot, on the 

 tibia, the fibula, with its fixed articulation with the astragalus, 

 rotating on the tibia, as in thepedimanous Marsupialia. The flat- 

 ness of the inner malleolus in some of the species indicates that 

 the capacity for rotation was less in them than in others. This 

 arrangement exactly reverses the extensive oblique fibulo-astraga- 

 lar articulation seen in the opossum, the Petaxirista, Dasyurus,etc. 

 Prof Owen, in describing the astralagus of the wombat (Phasco- 

 lomys), says : " The upper articular surface for the tibia is as usual 

 concavo-convex, the internal surface for the inner malleolus flat- 

 tened, and at right angles with the preceding, but the outer articu- 

 lar surface presents a triangular flattened form, and, instead of 

 being bent down parallel with the inner articular surface, slopes 

 away at a very open angle from the upper surface, receiving the 

 articular surface of the fibula so as to sustain its vertical pressure. 

 * * * This form of astragalus is also characteristic of the 

 Koala, Petaurists, Dasyures, and the Pedimanous Marsupialia." 

 In one species where the cuboid bones are preserved, it is evi- 

 dent that the distal end of the astragalus articulated with this as 

 well as with the navicular bone, although the facet of the astraga- 

 lus is single and continuous. As the extensive transverse distal 

 astragalar face is characteristic of all the species where it is pre- 

 served, the contact of the cuboid and astragalus is probably com- 

 mon to all of this division. 



The dentition of this group is consistent with its reference to 

 the sarcophagous Marsupialia or to the Insectivora. It has, how- 

 ever, decided resemblances in the form of the molars, and in the 

 deficiency in the number of the inferior incisors, to such genera 

 of Insectivora as Mythomys and Solenodon, while in the large 

 canines, it more nearly approaches Sarcophaga and Carnivora. 



I propose to include the genera Ambloctonus, Oxysena, Stypolo- 

 phuSj and Didymictis in a special division under the name of 

 Greodonta. This division may be regarded as a suborder of the 

 Insectivora. It is possible that the genus Diacodon Cope belongs 

 here also ; its species resemble Chiroptera in the inferior dentition, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



and five of small size. The genus 31esonyxJ which I discovered 

 in the Bridger beds of Wyoming, cannot be referred to the Greo- 

 donta as here constituted, since the trochlear face of the astragalus 

 is completely grooved above as in the true Carnioora, and its 

 distal end presents two distinct facets, one for the cuboid and the 

 other for the navicular bones. It represents on this account a 

 peculiar family, the Mesonychidse. 



To the Greodonta must be referred the genera Pterodon and 

 Palseonictis of De Blainville, from the French Eocene. This 

 author and Pomel placed them in the Marsupialia, but Professor 

 Gervais remarks (Geologic et Paleontologie Francaise) that the 

 evidence is insufficient for such a course. Here also doubtless 

 belong supposed Carnivora from the Wyoming Eocene, stated by 

 Marsh to be allied to the Viverridse. ' 



The remarkable type first introduced to the notice of paleonto- 

 logists by Leid} r , represented by the genera Anchippodus, Ecto- 

 ganus, etc., has been looked upon as an order of Mammalia by 

 Marsh, and termed the Tillodontia. He gives, 2 as its characters, 

 the possession of claws, plantigrade feet with five toes, a third 

 trochanter of the femur, and separate scaphoid and lunar bones. 

 Also, that the dentition is characterized by " molars of the ungu- 

 late type," small canines, and large scalpriform incisors in both 

 jaws, faced with enamel and growing from persistent pulps as in 

 the Rodentia. He says this order " seems to combine characters 

 of the orders of carnivores, ungulates, and rodents." 



Except in the dentition, the definition above given applies to 

 the Greodonta ; and an analysis of the dentition shows so many 

 points of resemblance as to render it probable that they pertain 

 to the same order of Mammalia. Also, except in the dentition, 

 the characters given by Prof. Marsh do not differ from those of 

 the Insectivora. The structure of the superior molars is not in- 

 consistent with the same order, and the small canines and large 

 incisors are even more like those of most Insectivora than are 

 Greodonta. The singular form of these incisors, and their growth 

 from persistent pulps, is rather characteristic of Rodentia. The 

 transverse or tubercular premolars also distinguish this group 

 from both the Greodonta and the true Insectivora. The defini- 

 tions of the order and sub-orders will then be as follows: 



Insectivora. Mammalia with small cerebral hemispheres which 

 do not cover the olfactory lobes, nor the cerebellum ; with numer- 

 ous clawed digits, and a third trochanter of the femur; with a 

 transverse glenoid cavity for the mandible. 



Superior incisors normal, not growing from persistent pulps; 

 canines large; premolars compressed. Astragalus not grooved 

 above, articulating with the cuboid as well as the navicular ; five 

 toes on the hind foot; Greodonta. 



1 Ann. Ropt U. S. Geol. Surv. Terrs., 1872, p. 550. 



2 Amer. Journ. Sci. Arts, 1875, 231. 




443 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Superior incisors large, growing from persistent pulps, and 

 without enamel on the sides ; superior canines small when present ; 

 premolars wide or tubercular; Tillodonta. 



These suborders of the order Insectivora do not differ among 

 themselves more than do those of the Marsupialia, and constitute 

 a series of parallels with them. Tims the Cre.odonta resemble the 

 Sarcophaga, the Insectivora vera the Entomophaga, and the Tillo- 

 donta the Rhizophaga, typified by Phascolomys. 



The genera of the Cre.odonta differ as follows: 



I. First and third inferior true molars without internal cusp. 

 Last superior molar longitudinal; last inferior molar carnassial; 



Ambloctonus. 



II. Inferior carnassials with interior tubercle; no tubercular 

 molar ; last superior molar transverse. 



Three tubercular carnassials; 1 Slypolophus. 



Two tubercular carnassials ; Oxysena. 



III. Inferior carnassial with interior tubercle; a tubercular 

 molar. 



One tubercular carnassial ; Didymictis. 



The number of toes on the hind foot cannot be certainly stated 

 in all the genera, but in Stypolophus Mans and another species 

 there were probably five, the inner being of reduced size. There 

 is present in those species an ento-cuneiform bone which resem- 

 bles that of Cam's; it is compi*essed. with one truncate concave 

 terminal facet, and an internal oblique one at the opposite and 

 proximal extremity. The form of the truncate articular face of 

 the distal end indicates the existence of an inner metatarsal bone 

 of moderate proportions, which probably supported a small hallux. 

 This thumb could not be opposable as in the opossum. 



In general appearance the Creodonta differed from the Carnivora, 

 in many of the species at least, in the small relative size of the 

 limbs as compared with that of the head, and in some instances, 

 as compared with the size of the hind feet. The feet were probably 

 plantigrade, and the posterior ones capable of some degree of 

 rotation. The probable large size of the rectus femoris muscle 

 indicates unusual power of extension of the hind limb. They were 

 furnished with a long and large tail. Probably some of the species 

 resembled in proportions the Mythomys and Solenodon, now exist- 

 ing in Africa and the West Indies, but they mostly attained a much 

 larger size. 



J. B. Knight, Elliston P. Morris, R. Shelmerdine McCombs, 

 M.D., John C. Boyd, M.D., U. S. N., and Eli K. Price, Esq., were 

 elected members. 



Prof. William Henry Flower, F.R.S., of London, Dr. Albert 



1 For the meaning of these expressions, see Syst. Cat. Eoc, New Mexico, 

 1875, p. 6. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 449 



Giinther, of London, Prof. St. George Mivart, F.R.S., of London, 

 N. S. Maskelyne, F.R.S., of London, and Prof. George Rolleston, 

 F.R.S., of Oxford, were elected correspondents. 



The Committee, to which was referred a paper entitled " A 

 Descriptive Catalogue of Scalidse of the West India Islands," b}' 

 Dr. 0. A. L. Morch, reported in favor of its publication in the 

 Journal. 



The Committees to which they had been referred recommended 

 the following papers to be published : 




450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



ON A NEW GENUS OF LOPHOBRANCHIATE FISHES. 

 BY E. D. COPE. 

 Osphyolax pellucidus, gen. et sp. nov. Plate 25. 



Char. Gen. Pectoral fins wanting; tail subeylindric. Body 

 covered with thin, weakly keeled scuta, which have on the lumbar 



region free superior edges, which form a series of longitudinal 

 lateral grooves. The lateral dorsal scuta produced upwards, and 

 approximated on the middle line, inclosing a tube for a distance 

 anterior to the dorsal fin. Dorsal fin short, above the vent. No 

 ventral nor caudal pouch ; caudal fin rudimental in the typical 

 species. No adipose fins. 



This genus is related to Nerophis, but is different from known 

 forms in its curious dorsal tube. What the purpose of this can 

 be is uncertain, but the strong lateral channels below it on each 

 side, are probably an adaptation for the carrying of the eggs. In 

 the type species, the dorsal tube is closed above by a series of 

 small radiate ossicles in the median line, between which the cavitj r 

 may be entered by small bodies. The same specimen displays a 

 narrow, free, dermal membrane on the middle lines of the upper 

 and lower surfaces from the thoracic to the beginning of the lum- 

 bar region. 



Char. Specif. Three longitudinal series of scuta on each side 

 of the body, and one on the middle line below. They are rounded 

 at the intersecting angles, thus leaving a vacancy, which is covered 

 by a small, round scale. Each scute with a low median keel, from 

 which delicate transverse ridges diverge. The two lower lateral 

 series are the ones which form the lumbar grooves. Two nuchal 

 scuta. Parietal and frontal regions impressed punctate; oper- 

 culum radiate; sides of muzzle smooth. Thirty-one transverse 

 rows of scuta. Dorsal radii sixteen. Total length .232 m. ; 

 length to vent, .111 ; to edge of operculum, .020; to orbit, .010. 

 Color in spirits pellucid, the back tinged with brownish. 



Obtained by Captain J. Mortimer in the open Atlantic Ocean. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE. 



Fig. 1. Osphyolax pellucidus. 



" 2. Head of the same from above. 



" 3. Dorsal line in front of dorsal fin. 



" 4. Lateral lumbar region. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 451 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF BIRD OF PARADISE OF THE 

 GENUS PTILORIS, IN THE COLLECTION OF THE ACADEMY. 



BY J. A. OGDEN, M.D., PH.D. 



Ptiloris Wilsonii. Plate 25. 



Top of head, occiput, throat, upper part of the breast, extend- 

 ing around beneath the eyes, of a shining, metallic, purplish-green 

 color ; the lower margin of the metallic colored feathers of the 

 breast is marked with a line of purple and light-green feathers, the 

 latter blending with the purple colored feathers of the abdomen ; 

 entire upper parts velvety-green, with purple reflections ; the two 

 central tail feathers metallic green, the rest black with the outer 

 margin shaded with purple ; the wings black, with the outer bor- 

 der purplish. 



Total length (mounted specimen), 14" ; bill 2" 3'" ; wing 5" 

 4'" ; tail 4" 2'" ; tarsus 1" i'" ; middle toe 1" V". 



Hab. New Guinea. 



This species is larger than either P. magnificus or P. Albertii. 

 The metallic colored feathers are larger, and extend over a greater 

 surface of the throat and breast ; the lower border is rounded. 

 The tarsi are shorter, and the toes not so stout as in the above 

 two species. 



This constitutes the fifth species of the genus, and 1 have named 

 it in honor of the donor and esteemed naturalist. Dr. T. B. Wilson. 




452 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE MANATEE. 

 BY HENRY C. CHAPMAN, M.D. 



Although in 1872 there appeared in the Transactions of the 

 Zoological Society of London a most admirable paper " On the 

 Form and Structure of the Manatee," by Dr. Murie, as I have 

 been lately engaged in the dissection of the Manatees, Manatus 

 American us, that died at the Zoological Garden of Philadelphia, 

 and as I believe this is the first time that the opportunity has 

 presented itself of studying fresh specimens, I think it not super- 

 fluous to call attention to some of my r results. As that excellent 

 anatomist, Dr. Murie, has very fully illustrated the anatomy of 

 the Manatee in the paper just mentioned, and refers frequently in 

 it to the literature of the subject, 1 shall limit myself to either 

 confirming his observations save in some points, or endeavoring 

 to supplement what is wanting in his paper, as, his specimens 

 having been opened on shipboard, some of the parts were thereby 

 either injured or decomposed, rendering them unfortunately un- 

 satisfactory for dissection. 



The Position of the Manatee in the, Animal Kingdom. I agree 

 with most naturalists in considering it and the Dugong as t lie 

 representatives of a distinct order, the Sirenia, regarding their 

 geographical distribution, food, structure of the skin, skeleton, 

 position of the nares, and mammae, the organs of alimentation, 

 circulation, the uro-genital apparatus, as entirely separating them 

 from the Cetacea, witli which the}' were combined by Cuvier and 

 are still by Profs. Haeekel, Cams, etc. While in some respects the 

 Sirenia are undoubtedly akin to the Pachydermata, De Blainville 

 likening them to the Proboscidea, others to the Hippopotamus, in 

 the present state of Biology I think it impossible to indicate the 

 exact relationship, there being no transitional form to bridge over 

 the gulf as the Zeuglodon does in the case of the Carnivora and 

 Cetacea, and so provisionally it appears to me that the order 

 Sirenia must be preserved. 



Sex, Length of Animals. The animals dissected by me were 

 both males, one measured exactly G feet from snout to tip of tail, 

 the other G^ feet. Their general appearance, the color of the 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 453 



creatures, character of the skin and hair, etc., were illustrations 

 of the truthful description given by Dr. Murie. 



Osseous and Muscular Systems. As regards the osseous system 

 I have nothing new to offer, merely observing that I found only 

 6 cervical vertebra?, and that I agree with Dr. Murie in regarding 

 the 3d cervical as the missing one. To those interested in the 

 Myology of the Manatee, I would refer them to the paper of Dr. 

 Murie, where good comparisons are made between its muscles and 

 those of the Elephant and Cetacea. Plate 21, however, does not 

 give exactly the color of the muscles as observed in my specimens, 

 which were rather redder than the brownish tint there depicted. 



Nervous System. Of the many subjects in anatomy for future 

 investigation, perhaps none surpasses in interest or importance 

 a thorough study of the Sirenian brain, not only in reference to 

 the completing our knowledge of the structure of the Sirenia, but 

 as offering additional data for the determination of their relative 

 position among the other Mammalia. At page 180 of his paper, 

 Dr. Murie states that "the encephalon of the younger male was 

 so destroyed as to be unfit for examination; while the membranes 

 surrounded the brain of the female specimen, a tolerably accurate 

 idea of the cerebral contour was got; but on raising the dura 

 mater, the brain itself was found to be softened and with difficult}' 

 extracted. No measurements or weight were taken, but the whole 

 placed in spirit as rapidly as possible ; a cast of the cranial cavity 

 with its inclosed dura mater was subsequently made, and by the 

 help of the cast and the shrunken brain, the sketches were drawn." 

 Such being the state of the brain in Dr. Murie's specimen, I took 

 the earliest opportunity of examining those of mine. As the brain 

 in my smallest Manatee seemed to have suffered from some com- 

 pression affecting the symmetry of the anterior lobes and some- 

 what flattening them, I used it for making sections, keeping the 

 brain of the largest Manatee, which was quite normal and in 

 excellent condition, for description externally. From the latter 

 specimen the figures (Plate 2G) have been drawn. After removing 

 the dura mater, which was very tough, what at once struck me, on 

 looking at the brain in situ, was the absence of either numerous 

 or deep fissures and folds. The elevation of the cerebellum as 

 compared with that of the cerebrum (not so well seen after re- 

 moval from the skull) is greater than that figured by Dr. Murie, the 

 amount of the cerebellum left uncovered by the cerebrum is more 




454 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



considerable. The brain as a whole resembled somewhat that of 

 a beaver or porcupine, the general figure of the cerebrum being- 

 more Rodent-like than " Elephantine," as Dr. Murie describes that 

 of his specimen at p. 181 ; but in truth, taking it all in all, the 

 brain of the Manatee is sui generis, not looking like any brain I 

 have dissected, seen preserved, or figured. Dr. Murie, at p. 183, 

 refers to some figure of the Dugong's brain, but as he gives no 

 reference and as I know of no such figure, I cannot make any com- 

 parison. The general figure of the cerebrum is quadrangular, but 

 rounded off at the corners, as Dr. Murie expresses it, the lobes 

 sloping gently downward from before backward. The height of. 

 the cerebrum in profile in the middle of the anterior lobes is 2^ 

 inches, the length of cerebrum 3 inches, the breadth through 

 middle lobes 3 inches. The height of the cerebellum is If inches. 

 The difference between the height of the cerebrum and cerebellum 

 is less therefore than that of the brain represented by Dr. Murie. 

 As regards the cerebrum, I had no difficulty in recognizing 

 frontal, parietal, temporal, and occipital lobes, the frontal lobes be- 

 ing enormous. The hemispheres are separated by a deep longitu- 

 dinal fissure; equally striking is the Sylvian fissure dividing each 

 hemisphere into an anterior and posterior half. As regards the 

 remaining fissures and folds I cannot say that I found them as well 

 marked as those represented by Dr. Murie in Figs. 31, 32, Plate 25. 

 Indeed the smoothness of both the brains examined by me is most 

 remarkable. I identified, however, the fissures of Rolando, the 

 Hippocampal and the Calloso Marginal. I refrain from naming 

 the remaining ones, as I am not satisfied as to their homologies 

 with those of the brains of other Mammalia. The olfactory 

 nerves are of good size, with well-developed bulbs. This is in 

 harmony with their sense of smell, which I think is acute, having 

 noticed with Mr. Thompson, Superintendent of the Garden, that 

 the Manatee seemed to recognize at once that its food had been 

 put in the aquarium by its sense of smell rather than by its sight 

 or hearing, which were apparently rather defective. The optic 

 nerves are small. The pituitary body is large, but the corpora 

 albicantia are not well differentiated. The 3d pair of nerves are 

 of fair size. What I took to be the 4th is a very delicate fila- 

 ment. The 5th is relatively and absolutely very large. If Dr. 

 Murie has correctly described the 6th, its origin, direction, and 

 size are very peculiar. It is possible, however, that the 6th 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 455 



is absent in the Manatee, as I found no trace of it at its usual 

 origin. If such is the case, I should regard Murie's 6th nerve as 

 the 7th, and his 8th as the pars intermedia; his 7th would then 

 be 8th. I was unable to trace out these nerves, being anxious to 

 take out the brain as soon as possible. The glossopharyngeal, 

 pneumogastric, and spinal accessory were readily recognized. 

 The hypoglossal came off internally and above the position repre- 

 sented by Dr. Murie in Fig. 33, Plate 25. On making sections I 

 found the corpus callosum extending but little posteriorly; the 

 fornix was well developed, particularly the posterior part. The 

 lateral ventricle is long and deep, the anterior and middle corner 

 very apparent, while there is a beginning of a posterior one. The 

 corpus striatum is well developed, as also the thalamus opticus. 

 There is a delicate taenia semicircularis. The choroid plexus is 

 rich. The hippocampus major is present, but not as thick rela- 

 tively as the hippocampus minor. There is apparently a corpus 

 fimbriatum. The velum interpositum was well injected, and on 

 removal revealed the pineal gland with its peduncle. The 3d ven- 

 tricle is deep. The corpora quadrigemina are large, but are really 

 bigeminal bodies, there being only a slight indication of division 

 into nates and testes. The processui e cerebello ad testes are well 

 seen, supporting a firm valve of Vieussens, under which a bristle 

 readily passed from the 4th to the 3d. ventricle. The cerebellum is 

 higher, as 1 have already mentioned, and broader than that repre-. 

 sented by Dr. Murie, almost as broad as the cerebrum, its breadth 

 being 3 inches. I noticed in its vermiform process, the floculus and 

 the amygdaloid bodies. The pons and medulla are both flat, but 

 the olivary and restiform bodies are, however, distinguishable. 

 The brain weisiied 7 ounces 14 drachms av. Di reference to the 

 distribution of the cranial nerves I have nothing new to offer. As 

 regards the cervical plexus, I found its disposition to be the 

 same as described by Dr. Murie, noticing the interesting peculi- 

 arity of the 3d and 4th cervical nerves, emerging together from 

 between two contiguous vertebrae, viz., the 2d and 4th. The 

 missing vertebra I regard, with Dr. Murie, as being the 3d. For 

 since the 8th cervical nerve, contributing to form the brachial 

 plexus, escapes from between the 1st dorsal and a contiguous 

 vertebra, which must, therefore, be the 7th cervical, and as the 

 7th, 6th, and 5th cervical nerves emerge from between contigu- 

 ous vertebrae, which must for the same reason be the 7th, 6th, and 




45G PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



5th cervical vertebrae, the vertebra next to the 5th must be the 4th, 

 for if it were the 3d, then the 4th and 5th cervical nerves would 

 escape together, instead of the 3d and 4th, the atlas and axis, 

 from their characteristic forms, being unmistakable. As regards 

 the brachial plexus and nerves of the upper extremities, I have 

 nothing new to offer. 



Alimentary Apparatus. As regards the parotid, submaxillary, 

 and what Dr. Murie considers as sub-lingual glands, I have 

 nothing further to say ; inasmuch, however, as that writer states 

 at page 170, "that the stomach had been cut open and the con- 

 tents removed," I may mention that I found the stomach as well 

 as the intestines in both specimens more or less filled with the 

 partially digested fresh-water plants, principally Valesneria spiralis, 

 upon which the animal had been feeding, and that the compound 

 stomach of the smaller Manatee measured in its greater curvature 

 18^ inches, in its lesser curvature 15^. In reference to its divi- 

 sion into cardiac and pyloric portions, the number and shape of 

 its pouches, the oesophageal sphincter, I have nothing to add to 

 what has alread}' been described. As my smallest Manatee meas- 

 ured exactly 6 feet, while the largest of Dr. Murie's was 65 inches, 

 it was to be expected that the intestines in my specimens would be 

 longer than in his. While the small intestine in his specimen was 

 25 feet long, in mine it was 33 feet 4 inches, the average diameter 

 was about 1 inch. The csecum in the smallest specimen was 5 

 inches long, measuring from a point midway between the teats, 

 and 6 inches wide. The teats themselves exhibited the usual coni- 

 cal form, and were 5 inches in length. The large intestine in my 

 smallest specimen gave me a length of 27 feet 2 inches ; that of 

 Dr. Murie, male and female, 18 and 17 feet respectively, average 

 diameter in mine was If inches. 1 



At page 173 Dr. Murie states "that the liver of the larger spe- 

 cimen had been hacked in pieces," but that " in the younger male 

 this gland was more intact," and a few lines below observes that 

 " the entire liver has great resemblance in shape to the inflated 

 lungs of an ordinary mammal." I think this comparison a very 

 good one, not only as regards the general form but also in the 

 color, which was quite lung-like. The form of the liver differed 



1 The large intestine of the largest Manatee was filled with parasites 

 representative of the Amphistomum fabaceum of Diesing. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 457 



but little from that of the Dugong as described by Prof. Owen. 

 The gland in situ extended completely across the abdominal 

 cavity, and measured in the smallest specimen from edge of right 

 lobe to that of left 14 inches; the breadth of the right and left 

 lobes was respectively 7-| and 6^ inches, their depth fore and aft 

 8 inches and 7 inches. The liver in the smallest specimen weighed 

 2 pounds 14^ ounces av. I have nothing to add about the gall- 

 bladder save to notice its presence. The pancreas, 6^ inches long, 

 was much lobulated, and, as Dr. Murie states, pale but firm in con- 

 sistence. Ductus communis choledochus in both my specimens 

 opened into intestine close to the pylorus, while the pancreatic 

 duct opened 1^ inches from the ductus communis. This disposi- 

 tion is different from that noticed b} T Dr. Murie, he stating at 

 page 173, in speaking of the pancreas, " its duct opens into the in- 

 testine close to the pylorus," while at page 174 he says "the ductus 

 communis choledochus penetrates the intestine about 3 inches 

 from the pylorus." 



Dr. Murie does not refer to the spleen. I found it in its usual 

 position, but was struck with its very small size, it measuring in 

 the smallest animal only 2^ inches long and 1 inch wide. In form 

 it was oval and of the usual color. Unfortunately the spleen of 

 the Sirenia sheds no light which will help to clear up the difficul- 

 ties which envelop any explanation of the general physiology of 

 this organ. Its small size, as in the Cetacea, is not in harmony 

 with the idea of its being either the birthplace or the grave of the 

 red corpuscles (which in the Manatee I noticed were very numer- 

 ous, though in other respects they presented nothing peculiar), 

 while it is in direct contradiction with the theory held by some 

 physiologists of the organ holding blood as a sponge to be pressed 

 out by the distended stomach when needed in digestion. 



Eespiratory Apparatus. As the peculiar disposition of the 

 diaphragm and the characters of the respiratory organs generally 

 have often been described, I will limit myself here to simply giving 

 measurements. The trachea of the smallest specimen was 4 inches 

 long from the larynx to where it bifurcates. The right bronchus 

 measured 6 inches in length, the right lung 25 inches, the left 

 bronchus 5 inches, the left lung 27 inches. The bronchi in my 

 specimen are more oblique than as represented by Dr. Murie. I 

 have nothing new to offer in reference to the larynx. I noticed 

 the usual muscles were well developed. 

 30 




458 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Circulatory Apparatus As my smallest specimen was very well 

 injected by Mr. Nash, the preparateur of the University Museum, 

 I took interest in comparing the great bloodvessels and various 

 rete mirabile with those described and handsomely figured by Dr. 

 Murie, and found his account a very satisfactory one I must 

 state, however, that the rete mirabile, figured by Dr. Murie in 

 Plate 24, Fig. 30, as lying immediately underneath and alongside 

 of the trachea and upper portion of the bronchi, was absent in my 

 specimen. I cannot attribute this difference to want of the vessels 

 being filled in my specimen, as the other rete, such as the cervical, 

 cranial, spinal, axillaiy, brachial, thoracic, intercostal, caudal, 

 etc., were well injected, so that without questioning the correct- 

 ness of Dr. Murie's plate as illustrating his dissection, I simply 

 state that in this respect it does not give exactly the idea of mine. 

 As Dr. Murie gives measurements of the bifid heart when empty, 

 I offer the following as the size of that organ when distended with 

 the injected material: Width of heart through auricles, measured 

 across aorta and pulmonary artery, 7 inches ; the width of aorta 

 was a little over an inch, that of pulmonary artery 1^ inch ; width 

 of heart through ventricles G^ inches. It is interesting to notice 

 the presence of the two superior venas cavae, the right one opening 

 into the auricle above, the left one below. 



Uro-genital Apparatus. Among the striking differences that 

 the Sirenia offer as contrasted with the Cetacea, none deserve 

 more notice than the urinary and Generative organs. As is well 

 known, the kidney in the Cetacea is much lobulated, whereas in 

 the Manatee no trace of such lobulation is perceptible. The kid- 

 neys in the smallest Manatee dissected by me were 6 inches long 

 and 3 inches wide; the ureters of the same diameter throughout 

 measured 10 inches in length from bladder to pelvis. As the male 

 generative organs have been described, and partly figured by 

 Vrolik, I merely mention that the penis in my specimen measured 

 12 inches in length, and that the ischio cavernosus, bulbo urethras, 

 :ind retractor penis muscles were well developed. The seminal 

 vesicles which are absent in the Cetacea were 2 inches long in my 

 specimen. The vas deferens from point of union with duct of 

 seminal vesicle to epididymis measured 8 inches; the testicle, 3 

 inches long, was somewhat indented, giving the gland the appear- 

 ance of consisting of two or three bodies. 



Habits of the Manatee. A great disideratum for a long time in 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 459 



every Zoological Garden has been a Manatee, and as the opportu- 

 nity of studying them living in confinement has presented itself 

 for the first time anywhere, I think it important to call attention 

 to the manner in which the curious creatures were brought to the 

 Zoological Society of Philadelphia, their habits while living there, 



and the cause of their death as far as I could learn. I am in- 



i 



debted to Mr. Thompson, Superintendent of the Garden, for the 

 use of his daily diary, from which most of the following facts are 

 taken. The two Manatees were brought from Demerara in sepa- 

 rate wooden tanks to Baltimore, and from there to Philadelphia, 

 arriving here August 4th. The tanks were placed under the trees, 

 and the water being at once let out they were re-filled with fresh 

 water from the Schuylkill River. The animals seemed to enjoy 

 the fresh water, swimming about and rolling over and over. Some 

 of the plant Valesneria spiralis gathered from the river was placed 

 in the tanks, and the animals immediately rose to the surface and 

 began to feed, fanning, as it were, the food into their mouths by 

 means of the bristles situated on their upper and lower lips ; these 

 bristles spreading out when in use so as to look very much like 

 small fans. The smaller Manatee ate more than the larger one, which 

 was natural, the large one having eaten heartily of grass and ship 

 biscuit before leaving Baltimore in the morning. The tanks were 

 then so arranged that a small stream of fresh water at a tempera- 

 ture of 70 Fahr. could flow constantly through them. Twice during 

 the evening the creatures were visited, and seen to rise at regular 

 intervals to the surface and feed kindly. The following morning, 

 August 5th, the Manatees had eaten all the plant left in the tanks 

 the night before. The creatures from time to time rose to the 

 surface, fanned the grass into their mouth, then sank slowly to the 

 bottom, chewing their food very slowly. August 6th, 1th, 8th, and 

 9th nothing new had been noticed. On the 10th the large Manatee 

 had eaten, by weight, 21 pounds of Valesneria spiralis in 24 hours. 

 On the 11th a little ceratophyllum was mixed with the valesneria. 

 It was all gone the following day in the tank of the larger Mana- 

 tee, and had been partially eaten by the smaller one. On the 14th 

 a little sea-weed (TJlva latissima) was put in the tanks; this had 

 all disappeared the next morning. ~By the 31st the large animal 

 had become quite tame, rising to the surface to have its head 

 scratched when the water was agitated. By September 4th the 

 aquarium, built for the purpose in the carnivora house, and contain- 




460 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ing water three or four feet deep, was ready for the reception of the 

 Manatees, and the animals were then shifted to it from the tanks 

 in which they had been brought to the garden in the following 

 manner. The water was first entirely drawn off, the tanks were then 

 placed on a truck and water played in to the depth of 18 inches to 

 prevent the animals from bruising themselves in floundering about. 

 The truck with the tanks was then moved to the aquarium, two 

 keepers got into the tank, passed a thick blanket under the Mana- 

 tee, two keepers in the aquarium seized the blanket, and by a 

 sloping platform from the tank the Manatees were successively 

 slipped up and launched into the aquarium. In the course of a 

 week the Manatees had become much tamer, not floundering as 

 they formerly did when the water was let out of the aquarium, 

 but allowing the keeper to sweep around them. On Sept. 23d 

 the larger Manatee was veiy^ sluggish, lying upon the surface 

 of the water, and it would not sink to the bottom or swim about. 

 When it did move bubbles of air were seen tt> escape from the 

 anus; the excrement was very hard. The animal seeming con- 

 stipated, the keepers were directed to make it move about from 

 time to time; whilst in motion there was a constant stream of 

 ascending bubbles of air from the anus. At night-time, however, 

 the animal seemed much better, and the next morning was playing 

 about as usual. On the morning of September 28th the Manatees 

 were apparently quite well, but at 9.30 A. M. the keeper going to 

 clean out the aquarium, noticed that the large Manatee was quite 

 sick, and the small one dead. On opening the animal the peri- 

 cardial sac was found distended, filled with fluid, serous exuda- 

 tion, and other signs of inflammatory action. The remaining or- 

 gans were perfectly healthy. The alimentary canal was full of the 

 remains of the food the animal had been eating; but I do not re- 

 gard this as pathological, since Steller, in speaking of the stomach 

 j>f the Rhytina, notices that it " was distended with masticated 

 sea-weed." The morning that the small Manatee died the tem- 

 perature of the water, through unavoidable circumstances, was 

 noticed to have fallen to 63 Fahr., the usual temperature being 

 70 to 71. It must be mentioned, however, that on August 25th 

 the water was only 0G, and yet the animals did not seem to be 

 inconvenienced. The change of temperature, however, on that 

 occasion was a gradual one. It seems, therefore, very probable 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 461 



that the sudden change in the temperature of the water caused the 

 illness of both the Manatees. The health of the smallest had never 

 been as good as that of the largest and oldest ; the cuticle peeling 

 off; it not feeding well; often troubled with constipation, Avhich 

 was relieved by giving the animal the valesneria from the bottom of 

 the tank, with the mud and pebbles adhering to it, etc. From the 

 way in which it followed the largest one, getting under it as if to 

 suckle, it seemed as if it had been captured too young. Apparently 

 the largest Manatee had recovered from the illness which had 

 killed the smallest, and seemed to be doing well, except in that 

 its eyes were a little inflamed, which symptom was attended to, 

 and it was hoped that it would live, but on the morning of October 

 15th it was found dead. The post-mortem showed that the heart 

 had been affected in the same manner as the first one, and that the 

 pleura and peritoneum and spinal marrow also exhibited signs of 

 inflammation. Whether the largest Manatee had lived through 

 the first attack on account of its comparatively good condition, 

 and died from a more recent one, I cannot say positively, but the 

 temperature of the water had been kept uniform since the smallest 

 one had died. From the manner in which the Manatees grubbed 

 about the bottom of the tank, nosing about like a pig, the extensi- 

 bility of the snout being much greater than one would suppose, I am 

 inclined to think that if a marine aquarium was built exactly suited 

 to their habits, they would only be seen when rising to the surface 

 to breathe, evidently liking the muddy better than the clear water. 

 When not in motion the Manatee rested by the tip of his tail upon 

 the floor of the aquarium, his head downward, and with the back 

 much arched. At intervals of about one minute to one and a quar- 

 ter he rose to breathe, and at that time the valves of the nose 

 might be seen to open and shut again as the animal slowly sunk. 

 One can readily understand, after seeing the lungs inflated, how 

 easy it is for the animal to maintain its almost motionless position 

 at variable depths of the water, the lungs acting very much like 

 the air-bladder of fishes, and looking indeed more like the lungs 

 of Lepidosteus than those of a Mammal. The Manatee will eat 

 freely of cabbage, spinach, kale, baked apples, celery tops, etc. 

 When feeding, the curious fanning motion of the bristles on the 

 lips can be well seen. The Manatee seems to be more like a gentle, 

 harmless, stupid sort of water-pig than anything else, with the 




462 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



senses little developed, that of smell being the b'est. Inasmuch as 

 the Zoological Garden of Philadelphia has succeeded in keeping 

 Manatees alive for two months and a half, let us hope that the 

 effort will be again made here, and by other institutions of similar 

 character, remembering with the poet 



" Nil actum reputans 

 Si quid superesset agendum." . 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 463 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW FOSSIL SHELLS FROM THE TERTIARY OF 



CALIFORNIA. 



BY ROBERT E. C. STEARNS, UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA. 



SCALARIA Lamarck. 



Subgenus Opalia, H. & A. Ad. 

 Opalia varicostata, Stearns. Plate 27, Figs. 2-5. 



Shell elongated-conical, turreted, tapering, solid, imperforate, 

 aperture ovate, peristome continuous, thickened ; dingy to clear 

 white ; suture well defined ; whorls united, exceedingly variable 

 in convexity and altitude ; specimens all decollate, or truncated, 

 equally solid, though varying in length from .75 to 2.45 inches, 

 showing four and one-half whorls within the first measurement 

 to five in the latter. Perfect specimens have probably from 8 to 

 12 whorls, or even more v Longitudinal ribs 9 to 12, varying in 

 number, prominence, and regularity, as well as in obliquity, when 

 compared with the axial line of the shell, and, in some specimens, 

 irregularly thickened and distorted by the intrusion of a varical 

 rib more or less conspicuously. In 'some individuals the termi- 

 nation of the rib at the suture gives the upper part of the whorls 

 a crenulated appearance, and the suture in all specimens is more 

 or less waved, dependent upon the prominence of the ribs, which 

 terminate anteriorly at and join a transverse rib at about the 

 middle of the basal whorl. 



Number of specimens 22, all in good condition, save the erosion 

 of the apex. 



This is one of those plastic forms which exhibit great varia- 

 bility, but which when a sufficient number of specimens are com- 

 pared, show well-marked characteristics. 



Had the twenty-two specimens examined as above been collected 

 by several persons, and, therefore, divided into many and smaller 

 parcels, and sent, as quite likely would have been the case, to 

 different authors and museums, and thus too widely separated for 

 comparison, it is highly probable, when the latitude of variation 

 which this form presents is considered, that three or four species 

 would have been made out of the above material, which Mr. 

 Henry Hemphill, the collector, kindly placed in my hands for 

 determination. 




464 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



This is a large species, and perfect specimens, probably, some- 

 times measure three inches in length ; one extreme specimen is 

 strongly suggestive of Turritella, and others resemble the living 

 Opalia borealis, Gould, common at different places along the 

 coast. It forms a curious, but complete link between the forms 

 like S. gronlandica, and the typical Opalise. 



Locality, about eight miles north of San Diego, California, 

 associated with Pecten and Vola. 



Museum of the Smithsonian Institution. 

 Opalia anomala, Stearns. Plate 27, Fig. 1. 



Shell solid, imperforate, elongated-conical, spire gradually 

 tapering; whorls convex, when perfect probably 11 to 14 in 

 number, nearly smooth, being marked only by incremental, 

 and, occasional^', in some specimens, by an outgrown varix ; 

 suture well defined ; basal whorl traversed transversely by an 

 inconspicuous rib, varying in prominence, in some specimens 

 barely discernible ; the convexity or angularity of the lower part 

 of the basal whorl modified by the presence or absence of the 

 basal rib. 



Number of specimens 10. Average length 2 inches. 



Longitude of smallest . . . .1.87 inches 

 " of largest 2.37 " 



As the apex whorls in all of the specimens are wanting, a care- 

 ful estimate would add .25 inch to the foregoing average, making 

 the latter 2.25 inches in perfect shells. 



This species is readily recognized by the absence of longitudinal 

 ribs, though one or two specimens indicate faint plications near 

 the apex. 



Locality, the same as the preceding species. 



Collected by Mr. Henry Hemphill, of Oaklaiv" 



Museum of the Smithsonian Institution 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 4G5 



December 1. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-seven members present. 



Quercus heterophylla. Referring to former remarks on this 

 oak, Mr. Thomas Meehan exhibited some leaves almost entire, 

 and some with lobes like the Bartram oak, which he had recently 

 gathered from a tree of the water oak in Mississippi. There were 

 on the same tree, bnt beyond reach, leaves resembling in outline 

 those of the willow oak. As indicated by Mr. Burke in regard to 

 the Quercus heterophylla of New Jersey, and which the evidence 

 already adduced showed were but Quercus aquatica, this last spe- 

 cies in its home in Mississippi was readily distinguished by the 

 habit of the tree. It had a tendency to branch low, forming a 

 somewhat spreading head, just as the white oak does, in which 

 there is little distinction between the main stem and the leading- 

 branches ultimately, while the Quercus Phellos had a more slender 

 twiggy habit, and the distinction between the main trunk and the 

 branches were carried forward to old age. 



Sabal Palmetto. Mr. Meehan remarked that this palm was not 

 confined to sandy land near the coast, but extended along the 

 whole line of the Big Black River in Mississippi, at least two hun- 

 dred and fifty miles above New Orleans, where it was found in 

 immense quantities in swamps. It was only seen in these places, 

 and often entirely in water, with, in some cases, two or three feet 

 of the trunk out of water. It must also be much hardier than 

 people supposed, as at Grenada, a little below which he had seen 

 the palm growing, the thermometer sometimes falls to 10. 



Swamp trees. Mr. M. further remarked that some years ago 

 he had called attention to the singular fact, that what we know as 

 swamp trees did not grow in swamps because they preferred these 

 wet places, but, as if nature had so ordained in order to clothe 

 these wastes, the seeds will only sprout in wet places or verj T 

 moist soil. When such trees find themselves in dryer situations 

 they thrive much better than in the wet places, where only the 

 -<eeds will grow. This is further illustrated by the Magnolia gran- 

 diHora in Mississippi. The tree is found as a general thing on 

 low bottoms, or along the line of water-courses favorable to the 

 germination of the seeds. Here the best trees seldom exceed from 

 thirty to fifty feet high. The loose soil of Mississippi is, however, 

 continually changing; and a swamp to-day may be high and dry 

 ground a quarter of a century hence. So the Magnolia grandi flora 

 often found itself in quite comfortable quarters, and in such cases 

 grew as tall as the loftiest trees say from fifty to seventy feet 




466 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



high. This desire to get out of the water if possible, lie had before 

 suggested as the cause of those peculiar productions of the roots 

 of cypress known as cypress knees. Whenever the tree found 

 itself in land covered by water these knees were thrown up above 

 the surface, till the water had the appearance of being covered by 

 flocks of huge water birds ; but when the trees were on land from 

 which the water is now drained away, the knees did not appear. 



The Florida moss, Tillandsia usneoides. In regard to this 

 plant, Mr. Meehan thought little was known of its history or 

 development. Some even supposed it to be a parasite. He had 

 been able to ascertain that the seed germinated when it found 

 itself in the hollow crotch of a tree in which vegetable mould had 

 collected. From this young plant hair-like stolons or runners pro- 

 ceeded with buds at every few inches, which buds in time pushed 

 forth into the gray green leaves and stems popularly known as 

 moss. These branches, as they hung, did not send out the hair- 

 like runners, but if they became detached from the original stock 

 and on another branch would do so. It appeared, however, that 

 propagation from seed w T as extremely rare the chief increase be- 

 ing by pieces of the branches blown b} r storms, or carried by other 

 agencies to other locations. Unless already on tall trees so as to 

 be blown down, it was difficult for the " moss" to travel up the 

 tree. As in the case of the grape-vines on the tall trees of this 

 region, it is carried up as the trees grow. On large old cypress 

 trees, it is probable the whole colony is formed of a few original 

 plants of many years of age. Trees which grow rapidly and had 

 chiefly erect branches, such as willows, on which the "moss" would 

 not hang easily, were chiefly free from it ; the horizontal branches 

 of the c}*press were very favorable to the attachment, and the 

 somewhat pendulous branchlets of the live oak well calculated for 

 entanglement with the loose flowing masses of the Tillandsia, and 

 hence it was usualby abundant on these trees. That it was merely 

 an epiphyte and not a parasite was clear from its growing as well 

 on telegraph wires as on trees. For a long distance above New 

 Orleans it might, be seen attached to the wires, on which it had 

 evidentl}- been originally blown from the trees. His attention had 

 been called to this fact 'by Col. Hillyard, one of the officers of the 

 railroad, who, without any great scientific pretensions, was yet an 

 acute observer, and who had noticed the little patches on the wire 

 getting larger by growth from 3'ear to year as well as if growing 

 on trees. This fact, of course, shows the plant to be a mere epi- 

 phyte in character. 



Notes on the Genus Calillus, Brong. At the request of T. A. 

 Conrad, the following note was read: 



The genus Calillus was separated from Inoceramus, by Brong- 

 niart, but the name had been previously given to a fresh-water 

 group, by Humphrey (Navicula Lam.). I have described and 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ' 467 



figured two species in Vol. II. of the United States Geological 

 Survey of the Territories. I intended that a reference to Brong- 

 niart's Gatillus should accompany my descriptions in the Report, 

 but I find it was omitted, and therefore insert it in the Proceed- 

 ings. The name Haploscapha I propose to substitute for Gatillus, 

 unless the genus Volviceramus, Stol., should include the species. 

 The singular turn of the beak and very unequal valves in Volvi- 

 ceramus appear to be the only differences between the two groups, 

 and therefore Haploscapha ma}' be retained 011I3' as a subgenus. 

 Nothing nearly related to this genus has ever been found either 

 above or below the chalk. If the cartilage was attached to the 

 grooved margin, it must have been external and very large. It 

 no doubt should be included in the family Amculidse. 



On Mineral Localities in North Carolina. Joseph Willcox 

 said that he desired to place on record some mineral localities 

 which he had visited among the mountains in N. Carolina. 



In Cherokee Co. on the roadside about half-way between Mur- 

 phy and Valleytown, corundum is found well cystallized in kyanite. 

 At the same locality crystals of kyanite, an inch in diameter, occur 

 in quartz. Some of these crystals are almost wholly altered into 

 damourite. 



At Hogback Mountain, in Jackson Co., on land of Thomas 

 Johnston, occur the most beautiful specimens of pink corundum, 

 associated with margarite and tourmaline. 



In Buncombe Co., on the summit of the ridge between the head- 

 waters of Reems Creek and Bull Creek, large garnets are found 

 in mica slate. In Swannanoa Gap, in the same county, a large 

 outcrop of kyanite occurs, extending several miles in a northeast- 

 ern course. At several places on this vein corundum is found in 

 the kyanite, sometimes in crystals more than two inches long. 

 One specimen of kyanite found there has corundum attached to it 

 on one side, while the other side is altered into damourite, which 

 still retains the bladed structure of the kyanite. 



In Madison Co., on the farm of Mr. Carter, near the Burnsville 

 road, 20 miles from Asheville, a white and pink corundum is 

 found, associated with margarite and chlorite. At this place 

 about 1000 pounds of corundum have been dug up ; but it is 

 mixed with spinel so abundantly that it possesses little value for 

 commercial purposes. 



In Haywood Co., a vein of white feldspar (probably albite) has 

 recently been dug out, to a depth of a few feet, in the pursuit of 

 mica. This vein, about 5 feet wide, is walled on each side with 

 gneiss rocks, and contains corundum associated with margarite or 

 damourite. Occasionally corundum is found in a matrix of mica 

 in large plates, resembling muscovite. This corundum is blue, 

 and affords beautiful specimens. He did not observe any indication 

 of serpentine rocks in this vicinit}-. 




46S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Crystals of rutile, 5 inches long, in quartz, are found on the 

 farm of Garret Ray, near Burnsville in Yancey Co. 



Corundum penetrated with crystals of rutile is found near 

 Bakersville, in Mitchel Co. Crystals of actinolite nearly half an 

 inch broad in talc are found on the farm of Mr. English, near 

 North Loe River in same County. 



On the farm of Mr. Alley, in Horse Cove, Jackson Co., decre- 

 mented crystals of muscovite mica are found; also beryls with 

 highly modified terminations. 



On the summit of the South Mountains, 7 miles south of Mor- 

 ganton, in Burke Co., an outcrop of serpentine occurs, where may 

 be found magnetite in chlorite, actinolite, talc, and asbestos. One 

 small specimen of corundum has been found there. 



The production of muscovite mica is probably greater in the 

 mountain region of N. Carolina than in any other district in the 

 world; and the supply is chiefly obtained in Mitchel and Yancey 

 Counties. 



It is found in veins of feldspar, usually much decomposed, and 

 accompanied sparingly with quartz. The wall rocks of the veins 

 are gneiss and mica slate. The largest specimens of mica are ob- 

 tained in Wiseman's mine, in Mitchel Co., where one huge mass 

 was found 5 feet long, 3 feet wide, and 2 feet thick. At this mine 

 the rare mineral samarskite occurs. 



Occasionally beryls, tourmalines, and garnets, are found in 

 these mica mines. 



On the Effect of the Bipedal Position in Man. Dr. Allen made 

 some remarks upon the physical characteristics of man, which re- 

 sult from the assumption of the bipedal position. He contrasted 

 the position of a quadruped standing upon his hind legs, with 

 that of a man in the erect attitude such as that seen in the soldier 

 standing at attention. The most conspicuous of these character- 

 istics were seen in the absence of flexion at the knee-joint, the 

 downward directed nostril, and the sigmoid curve of the supra- 

 sacral vertebral column. The flattening of the sternum was a 

 sequence upon the presence of the clavicle, and was of course not 

 dependent upon the erect position. Yet, since a fixed clavicle (at 

 least its mammalian expression) cannot act to advantage in any 

 other than this position, the flattening can be assigned a secondary 

 place in the group of characters. 



Dependent upon the erect position plus the flattening of the 

 sternum is the deflection of the heart to the left side. Dr. A. 

 spoke at length upon the reasons of this deflection, and claimed 

 for it a result of modification of the fcetal proportions of the heart. 

 The typical mammalian act is the fetal heart; the heart of the 

 adult being a specialized form. The mechanism of the deflection 

 is complicated. Entering into its consideration are (1) the fact 

 that the right side of the heart is fixed b} r the cavse at its right 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 469 



border, thus tending to tilt the right ventricle toward the left. (2) 

 The greater weight of the posterior aspect of the heart which throws 

 the posterior wall downward, and the anterior wall upward. ( 3) The 

 fixation of the left side of the heart, by the pulmonary veins, 

 directly in the median line, while the flattened sternum compels 

 the apex to lie either to one or the other side of the median line. 

 Dr. A. in conclusion divided the characteristics of man into two 

 groups. The first and most important being those the result of 

 evolving from a quadrupedal type a bipedal specialized form ; the 

 second, being those belonging to the disposition of special organs, 

 such as the teeth. Within this category may be placed the rudi- 

 ments of structure, which are better developed in quadrupeds, 

 and which often constitute the "varieties" of human anatomy. 



December 14. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-nine members present. 



December 21. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-five members present. 



December 28. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Fifty members present. 



Win, Stevenson, Jos. R. Roach, H. C. Humphrey, Geo. Wood, 

 and Beulah M. Rhoads were elected members. 



The Committee to which it had been referred recommended the 

 following paper to be published. 




470 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



STUDIES OF THE AMERICAN FALCONIDiE MONOGRAPH OF THE 



GENUS MICRASTUR. 



BY ROBERT RIDGWAY. 



Introduction. 



No group of American hawks has presented more numerous 

 (lilliculties in the way of elucidating and strongly characterizing 

 its species; and so complex are the obstacles presented in this 

 case, that the conclusions of authors, who have made the genus 

 Micrastur a subject of special study, are very conflicting. The 

 brevity and otherwise unsatisfactory nature of the original de- 

 scriptions of the older species is the main difficulty, but the per- 

 plexing stages of plumage, which in this genus are very remark- 

 able, and so far as we know entirely peculiar among the Falconidse, 

 add still more to the confusion into which their synonymy has 

 fallen. In the latter we have reference to the fact, perhaps not 

 yet generally known, that two distinct phases of color, a gray and 

 a rufescent, occur in some of the species at all stages of growth, 

 which circumstance has but very recently been taken into con- 

 sideration in defining the specific characters. 



The undertaking of this monograph would have been impossible 

 to the author but for the kind assistance of Mr. Osbert Salvin, 

 the eminent English ornithologist, who transmitted for examina- 

 tion his entire series of specimens, representing every known 

 species of the genus. 

 National Museum, Washington, D. C, July 30, 1875. 



Literature. 



The first species of this genus was described by Vieillot in 

 1817, and since that time numerous other names have been pro- 

 posed, which are as follows, in chronological order: 1 



H) Sparvtus ruficolln, Vieillot, Nouv. Diet. Hist. Nat. X, 1817, p. 822. 

 (= M. ruficollis, adult, rufous phase.) 



(2) 8parviu8 gifoicollis, Vieill., 1. c. p. 323. (=M. ruficollis, gray phase, 



adult?) 



(3) iSjiiirn'/is melanoleueus, Vieill., 1. c. p. 327. (=M. melanoleucus, ad.) 



1 The names following in parentheses are those adopted in this work. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 471 



(4) Falco leueauchen, Temm., PI. Col. pi. 36, 1823. (=M. ruficollis, rufous 



phase, jur. ?) 



(5) Falco leucomeltts, Licht,, Verz. Doubl 1823, p. 62. (= M. melano- 



leucus. ) 

 (G) Falco xanthothorax, Temm., PI. Col. pi. 92, 1824. (=M. ruficollis, 

 rufous phase, adult.) 



(7) Falco brachypterus, Temm., 1. c. pis. 11G ljuv.), et 141 (adult). (= 



M. melauoleucus.) 



(8) JYisus concentricus, Less., Traite d'Orn. 1831, p. GO. (=M. concen- 



tricus ? ? ?) 



(9) Gamifex naso, Less., L'Echo du Monde Savant, annee 9, p. 1081. (= 



M. melanoleucus.) 



(10) Falco percontator, Cabot, Boston Journ. IV, 1844, 4G2. (=M. me- 



lanoleucus, adult.) 



(11) Micrastur guerilla, Cassin, Pr. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1848, 87. (- 



M. guerilla, young.) 



(12) Astur mirandollei, Schleg., Ned. Tijdschr. I, 1863, p. 130. (=M. 



mirandollii.) 



(13) Micrastur maerorhynchus, Pelz., Orn. Nov. 1865, p. 11. (=M. 



mirandollii.) 



(14) Glimacocercus zonotlwrax, Cabanis, Journ. fur Orn., 1865, p. 406. 



(=M. zonothorax.) 



Besides the above, authors generall}- quote Sparvius semitor- 

 quatus, Vieillot (Nouv. Diet., x. 1817, p. 322), for M. melanoleucus, 

 but we cannot identify it with that species (see p. 484); and Pel- 

 zeln quotes a manuscript or museum name of Natterer's, as fol- 

 lows : 



Falco trif 'asciatus, Natl., Catal. Msc. No. 954. (= M. giivicollis, Pelz., 

 = M. ruficollis, adult, plumbeous phase. ) 



The more important special discussions bearing upon the species 

 of this genus are the following: 



Pelzeln, August von. Eeise der Osterreichisclien Fregatte 

 Novara, urn die erde in den Jahren 1857, 1858, 1859, unter den 

 Befelden Commodore B. von \Vullerstorf-Urbair, Zoologischer 

 Theil. Erster Band. Vogel. Wein, 1865, pp. 176, quarto, pis. 6. 



The genus Micrastur is treated at considerable length on pp. 

 9-12. The following species are recognized on p. 12 : 



M. brachypterus (Temm.) M. guerilla Cassin. 



maerorhynchus (Natterer. ) concentricus (Illig. ) 



xanthothorax (Temm.) giivicollis (Vieill.) 




472 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Of the above M. macrorhynchus = M. mirandollii, Schleg. The 

 following references are assigned to the other two species which 

 are noticed in detail : 



M. CONCENTRICUS (p. 8.) 



Falco concentricus, Illig. in Mus. Berol. 



Nisus concentricus, Less. Tr. GO. D'Orb., Voy. 88. Schleg. Mus. 



P.-B., Astures, 51. 



Climacocercus concentricus, Caban. in Erichson's Archiv. I, 1844, 



265 ; in Tschudi, F. P. 18, 98; in Schoinb. Guiana, III. 735. Burm. 



Th. Bras. II, 86. 



Circaetus (Herpetotherea) concentricus, Kaup, Isis, 1847, 2G0 ; in 



Troscbel's Archiv. I, 1850, 37. 



Micrastur concentricus, Gray, Gen. 28 (Excl. Syn. Vieill.). Bonap. 



Comp. 30 (Excl. Syn. Vieill.); Rev. Zool. 1854, 537. Strickl. 



Orn. Syn. I, 1855, 123 (part.) 



Hab. Guiana (Mus. Berol.), Cayenne (Mus. Vindob.), Bahia, 

 Para (Mus. Berol.), Marabitanas, Barra do Rio Negro, Para 

 (Natterer), prope Rio de Janeiro (Zelebor), Bolivia (D'Orbigny), 

 Mexico (Bonap.). 



M. gilvicollis (p. 10.) 



Sparvius gilvicollis, Vieill., N. D. X, 323; Enc. Meth. 12G4. 

 Falco tri/asciatus, Natterer, Catal. Msc, No. 954. 

 Climacocercus concentricus, juv. Caban., in Tschudi, F. P. 99. 

 Falco concentricus, Pucheran, R. Z. 1850, 91. 



Hab. Cayenne (Mus. Vindob.), Brazil, Mattogrosso, S. Gabriel, 

 Borba (Natterer), Peru (Cabanis). 



M. MACRORHYNCHUS (p. 11.) 



Falco macrorhynchus, Natt. Cat. Msc. , No. 920. 



Hab. Brazil, Barra do Rio Negro, S. Maria de Brancho, Para 

 (Natt.). 



Remarks. The M. concentricus of Pelzeln, 1. c. = M. concen- 

 tricus, Ridgw., Pr. Boston Soc, N. H., May, 1873, p. 81. 



In this important notice Herr von Pelzeln discusses at length, 

 the points of distinction between his M. concentricus ( = M. concen- 

 tricus, Less.? ??), and M. gilvicollis (Vieill.), successfully estab- 

 lishing their distinctness. 



Sclater, P. L., M.A., Ph.D., F.R.S., and Salvin, Osbert, M.A., 

 F.L.S. Notes on the species of the genus Micrastur. <Proc. 

 Zool. Soc. London, May 27, 1869, 364-369. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 473 



The seven species recognized are diagnosed as follows (p. 865) : 



A. Majores : subtus albi fere unicolores. 



a. major, supra nigricans. 1. M. semitorquatus. 



b. minor, supra cinereus. 2. M. mirandollii. 



B. Minores : sup. subtus albi, dense transfasciati. 



a. dorso rufo, pileo cinereo. 



a", minor ; dorso dilutiore rufo. 3. M. ruficollis- 



b". major ; dorso saturatiore rufo. 4. M. zonothorax. 



b. dorso cinereo : pileo concolore. 



a", ventre imo et crisso albis immaculatis. 5. M. gilvicollis. 

 b". ventre imo et crisso cinereo transfasciatis : 



a>". dorso dilutiore cinereo. 6. M. leucauchen. 



b"'. dorso saturatiore cinereo. 7. M. guerilla. 



The synonyms assigned the several species are as follows : 



1. M. SEMITORQUATUS (p. 365). 



Sparvius semitorquatus, Vieill. 

 Sparvius melanol&ucus, Vieill. 

 Falco brachyplcrus, Temm. 

 Falco leucomelas, Licht. 

 Carnifez naso, Lesson. 

 Falco perco7itator, Cabot. 



2. MlCRASTUR MIRANDOLLI (p. 365). 



Astur mirandollii, Schleg. 



Micrastur macro rhynchus, Pelz (1865). 



3. Micrastur ruficollis (p. 366). 

 Sparvius ruficollis, Vieill. 



Falco xanthothorax, Temm. 



4. Micrastur zonothorax (p. 366). 



Climacocercus zonothorax, Cabanis (1865). 



5. Micrastur leucauchen (p. 367). 

 Falco leucauchen, Temm. 



Micrastur gilvicollis, (adult) Pelzeln, Orn. Nov. 1865, 10. 



6. Micrastur guerilla (p. 367). 



Micrastur guerilla, Cass (1848). 



Micrastur concentricus, Scl. P. Z. S. 1856, 285. 



Micrastur gilvicollis, Scl. & Salv. Ibis, 1859, 218 ; Scl. P. Z. S. 1858, 96 ; 



1860, 96. Lawr., Ann. Lye. N. Y. vii. 317. 

 Micrastur xanthothorax, Scl. P. Z. S. 1857, 368. 



7. Micrastur gilvicollis (p. 368). 



Sparvius gilvicollis, Vieill., Micrastur gilvicollis, jr. Pelz. Orn. Nov. 



1865, 10. 

 Nisus concentricus, Lesson (1831). 

 31 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Not agreeing with Herr Pelzeln's conclusions concerning 31. 

 concentricus (Less.), and M. gilvicollis (Yieill.), Messrs. Sclater 

 and Salvin give to the former the name 31. gilvicollis (Yieill.), and 

 to the latter that of 31. leucauchen (Temra.j, a view of the mat- 

 ter in which we cannot concur, for reasons stated under the head 

 of these species, respectively. 



Ridgway, Robert. Revision of the Falconine Genera, Micras- 

 tur, Geranospiza and Rupornis, and the Strigine Genus Glauci- 

 dinm. Based upon specimens in the Museum of the Smithsonian 

 Institution, the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, the 

 American Museum, at New York, the Boston Society of Natural 

 History, the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Cambridge, and 

 the Ornithological Cabinet of Mr. Geo. N. Lawrence. <Proc. 

 Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., May 21, 1873, pp. 73-106. 



The relationship of this genus to Herpetotheres and the Falcones 

 in osteological structure is here first pointed out, as well as a 

 striking analogy to the Strigidee in the facial ruff, downy edge to 

 inner webs of the primaries, and dimorphic plumage of some 

 species. 



Five species are recognized by the following diagnoses: 



A. Inner toe appreciably shorter than the outer. 



a. Wing, 9.00 or more. 



1. Black above, with a nuchal collar. Tail longer than the wing. 



31. semitorquatus. 



2. Plumbeous above, without a nuchal collar. Tail shorter than 



the wing. 31. mirandollei. 



b. Wing less than 8.00. 



3. Throat and adjoining portions ashy in the adult. No nuchal 



collar. 31. ruficollis. 



4. Throat and crescent behind the jaw white, sharply defined ; 



a nuchal collar of white spots. 31. leucauchen. 



Inner toe appreciably longer than the outer. 



5. Wing less than 8.00. Tail shorter than the wing. Lower tail- 



coverts immaculate white. If. concentricus. 



The references are as follows (omitting 31. semitorquatus and 

 3L mirandollii, which are not different from those given by Sclater 

 and Salvin) : 



3. INIlCHASTUR RUFICOLLIS. (P. 78.) 



Sparvius ruficollis, Vieill. (Rufous phase.) 



Micrastur gilvicollis, Pelz. Orn., Nov. 1865, 10. (Grayish phase.) 



Falco .cunt hothorax, Temm. (Rufous phase.) 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 475 



Falco trifasciatus, Natterer. (fide Pelzeln.) 



Olimacocercus concentricus, juv. Cabanis, in Tschudi Fauna Peruana, 99. 



Micrastur guerilla, Cass. 



CUmacocercus zonotlwrax, Cabanis. 



Micrastur leucauchen, Scl. and Salv., P. Z. 8., 1869, 3G7. 



4. Micrastur iiEucAucHEN. (P. 80.) 

 Falco leucauchen, Temni. 



5. Micrastur concentricus. (P. 81.) 



Falco concentricus, Illig. Nisus concentricus, Lesson. CUmacocercus con- 

 centricus, Caban. in Tscbudi Fauna Peruana, 18 and 98. Micrastur 

 concentricus, Pelz. Orn., Nov. 1865, 9. 



Falco senex, Natterer in Mus. Vindob. (fide Pelzeln.) 



Micrastur gilvicollis, Scl. & Salv., P. Z. S., 1869, 368. 



Sharpe, B. BowDLERCatalogue of the Accipitres, or the Diur- 

 nal Birds of Prey in the collection of the British Museum. Lon- 

 don, June, 1874, 8vo. pp. i.-xiii., 1-479, pis. xiv. Genus "17 

 Micrastur," pp. 74-80. The following- Key to the Species" is 

 given. 



a. Larger: underneath entirely uniform, not barred. 



a'. With a white or creamy buff collar round hind neck. 



semitorquatus, p. 75. 

 V. With no collar. mirandollei, p. 76. 



b. Smaller: underneath barred in a most regular manner. 



c'. Flanks white, barred with grayish-black. 

 c". Above uniform slate color, brown, or blackish-gray. 

 c">. Foreneck more or less tinged with orange-rufous. 



ruficollis, % , p. 76. 

 d"'. Foreneck barred with white and black. 

 c"". Lower abdomen and vent white. gilvicollis, % , p. 78. 

 &. Lower abdomen and vent distinctly barred like the' rest of 

 under surface. guerilla, % , p. 79. 



d". Back rufous or rufous-brown ; head ashy-gray or grayish-black, 

 in evident contrast. 

 e'. Chest orange-rufous. ruficollis, 9 , p. 76. 



f". Chest white, barred with grayish-black. 



e". Head and sides of neck ash-gray. guerilla, Q, p. 79. 



/"". Head and sides of neck grayish-black, the latter s'lightly 

 washed with rufous. zonotlwrax, 9 , p. 79 



d'. Flanks uniform bright chestnut. castanilius,^ p. 80. 



> According to Mr. Salvin (in Epist., May 6, 1875), this bird "turns out 

 to be an African species belonging to the genus Accipiter seu Nisus. The 

 South American locality given by Verreaux is quite wrong. It is almost 

 identical with Astur tibialis, differing only in size." 




476 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The chief synonjnns and references are as follows: 



3. MlCRASTUR RUFICOLLIS. (P. 76.) 



Sparvius ruficollis, Vieill. 

 Falco leucauchen, Tenim. 

 Mierastur leucauchen, Scl. & Salv. 

 Falco xanthothorax, Tenim. 

 Mierastur gilvicollis (ad.), Pelzeln. 



4. MlCRASTUR GILVICOLLIS. (P. 78.) 



Sparvius gilvicollis, Vieill. 



Nisus concentricus, Less. 



Mierastur concentricus, Pelz. Oru. Bras. 



Mierastur gilvicollis, Pelz. Orn., Nov. Scl. & Salv. 



5. MlCRASTUR GUERILLA. (P. 79.) 



6. MlCRASTUR ZONOTHORAX. (P. 79.) 



Concordance of Names applied to the several Sp>ecies of Mierastur 



by Different Authors. 



Monograph. 



Genus MlCRASTUR, Gray. 



Brachypterus, Less., Compl. Buff. VII, 1836, 113 (not of Kugel, 1794). 

 Type M. melanoleucus. 



Gamifex, Less., Rev. Zool., 1842, 378 (not of Sundevall, 1836). Type C. 

 naso, Less., = M. melanoleucus. 



Mierastur, Gray, List Gen. B., 1841, 6; Gen. I, 1844, p. 28, pi. 10, fig. 1. 

 Type Falco brachyptems, Temm. = M. melanoleucus. 



Climacocercus, Cabanis, in Tschudi's Fauna Peruana, Vog. 1845, 98. Type 

 Sparvius gilvicollis, Vieill. 



Climacotirus, Bonap., 1849 (fide Gray). 



llhyncomegus, Bonap., Rev. et Mag. de Zool., 1854, 537. Type Falco 

 brachypterus, Temm. 



Notihicrax, Sund. Disp. Ace. Hemcroliarp, 1872, 25. Type Falco xantho- 

 thorax, Temm. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OE PHILADELPHIA. 



477 



Gen. Ch. Form of Nisns, i.e., wings short, rounded, and con- 

 cave beneath, tail very long, tarsi and middle toe long and slender, 

 head small, bill short and compressed, with the upper tomium 

 more or less festooned. A distinct ruff around the face, as in 

 Circus; inner webs of the primaries with their edges soft and 



Fig. 1. 



M. melanoleucus. Nat. size. 



woolly, as in the Strigidse. Bill short, high, and much com- 

 pressed, nearly twice as deep as broad at the base ; the culmen 



Fi 



g. 2. 



Fig. 3. 



M. rufieollis. Nat. size. 




418 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



abruptly curved; gongs greatly convex; lower mandible trun- 

 cated, the terminal outline rounded when viewed laterally, but in 

 front divided by an angular notch (Fig. 3) ; upper tomium with a 

 more or less prominent festoon. Cere almost covered by fine hair- 

 like bristles, which are strongly recurved on the top. Nostril 

 broadly oval, or nearly circular, against the anterior edge of the 

 cere. Orbital region and superciliary shield perfectly bare, the 



Fig. 5. 



Fig. 4. 



M. zonothorax. Nat. size. 



latter very prominent and exposed for its whole length, as in Falco. 

 Tarsus more than twice as long as the middle toe, scarcely feathered 

 below the knee; its scutellrc of a hexagonal form, and arranged in 

 longitudinal series larger in front and behind, where they some- 

 times form a continuous frontal and posterior series of rather 

 quadrate plates. (Figs. 4, 5.) Top of the toes with irregular, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



479 



sometimes interrupted, transverse scutellre to the base. Web 

 between outer and middle toes well developed. Claws of normal 

 form, well curved, and exceedingly sharp. Wing short, much 

 rounded, and very concave beneath, the primaries much bowed 

 (as in Nisus) ; third to sixth quill longest ; first shortest ; outer 



Fitr. 6. 



M. rufieollia. \A nat. size. 



five or six with their inner webs slightly sinuated. Tail very 

 long (nearly equal to or exceeding the wing), much rounded, or 

 graduated. Feathers of the crown and occiput well developed, 

 sometimes 1 large and broad, capable of being erected into a broad, 

 depressed crest. 



This well-characterized and very remarkable genus comes 

 nearest Herpetotheres, with which it agrees closely in osteologi- 

 cal structure as well as in essential features of external form ; but 

 it differs in many important points throughout its 

 whole anatomy more especially in the develop- 

 ment of the nasal bones, which are much less com- 

 pletely ossified almost as little so as in the Buteo- 

 ninas. It presents analogies with Circus and the 

 Strigidas in the facial ruff, and with the latter in 

 the character of the inner webs of the primaries, 

 as well as in the dimorphic plumage of some of the species, and 

 with Nisus in general aspect and mode of life. The remarkable 



M. rufieollia. 



Notably in the smaller species. (See Fig. 2.) 




480 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



analogy to the Owls is seen not only in the respects pointed out, 

 but also in the enlarged ear-aperture, of oval form and verti- 

 cal position (see Fig. 7), and the dense hair-like antrorse bristles 

 which cover and nearly conceal the cere. 



We have elsewhere demonstrated that this genus belongs to 

 the subfamily Falconinsef by reason of osteological affinites, not- 

 withstanding its exceedingly different appearance externally. 



From the examination of nearly one hundred and fifty specimens 

 of the genus, we have been able to make the following deductions 

 regarding the nature of the changes to which the plumage of these 

 hawks is subject: (1) There is no appreciable sexual difference, 

 either in the young or adult stages ; (2) there are two well-marked 

 growth stages, causing the young birds to differ very essentially 

 in plumage from the adult ; and (3) certain species are more or 

 less subject to erythrism, individuals being deeply rufescent and 

 others clear plumbeous, these phases being entirely independent of 

 age, sex, or season, and connected by specimens variously inter- 

 mediate between the two extremes. This dimorphism of plumage 

 is in every respect analogous to that so well known to charac- 

 terize certain owls, as the Syrnium ahtco of Europe, the common 

 Scops asio of the United States, and several species of Glaucidium, 

 in Tropical America. In the case of the Glaucidium ferrugineu m , 

 the rufous phase is far commoner in the Amazonian region than in 

 Middle America, it being the rule throughout the former district 

 and the exception in the latter ; in the same way, Micrastur rufi- 

 collis, of Brazil, etc., is rufous in perhaps seventy-five per cent, of 

 the individuals composing that species, and the development of 

 the erythrism is extreme ; but in M. guerilla, the northern form, 

 it occurs in perhaps less than fifty per cent., and then consists of 

 only an appreciable tendency toward this condition, seen in a rusty 

 wash overlying the plumbeous of the back, producing thereby a 

 warm-sepia tint. 



All the known species agree in the following 



Common Characters. Tail dusky tipped and irregularly barred 

 with white. (A 2 ) Adult : Above plain blackish or plumbeous, 



1 Outlines of the Natural Arrangement of the Falconidae. [Read before 

 the Philosophical Society of Washington, April, 1873.] <Bull. U. S. Geo- 

 logical and Geographical Survey of the Territories, No. 4, second series. 

 Washington: Government Printing Office, June 10, 1875. 



1 These letters and figures in parentheses refer to those of the following 

 table. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 481 



beneath immaculate white or ochraceous. Young: (1) Beneath 

 spotted or barred with dusky, or (2) with the feathers bordered 

 with grayish. (B) Adult: Above varying from plumbeous to 

 rufous ; beneath marked with regular, ray-like bars of dusky and 

 white except on the throat and sometimes (in M. concentricus) 

 the crissum and anal region. Young: Throat and half-crescent 

 behind the ear coverts, white ; lower parts white, with or without 

 coarse bars of dusky. 



They may be distinguished by the following differential charac- 

 ters : 



Fie. 8. 



M. pelzelni. Nat. size. 



A. Outer toe decidedly longer than the inner. (Fig. 8.) 



a. Size large (wing more than 8.00). 



1. Tail longer than the wing (wing 9.70-11.70, tail 9.60-13.00). Above 

 black with a nuchal collar of white or ochraceous. Entire Inter- 

 tropical Region, except Andean district. M. melanoleucus. 



2. Tail shorter than the wing (wing 8.80-9.30, tail 7.80-9.00). Above 

 plumbeous, without a nuchal collar. Costa Rica to Brazil. 



M. mirandolii. 



b. Size small (wing less than 8.00). 



3. Wing, 6.50-7.10; tail, 6.90-7.50; tarsus, 2.20-2.50; middle toe, 

 1.10-1.25. Tail crossed by 3-6 white bars. 1 Adult: Tail crossed 

 by 3-4 bars of white. Above uniform plumbeous or chocolate, the 

 head and neck plumbeous. Throat light-gray ; jugulum, breast, and 

 entire lower parts barred with white and dusky. Young : Above 

 dark clove-brown, sometimes indistinctly barred or spotted with 

 rusty. Beneath white or buff, with coarse bars of dusky (rarely im- 

 maculate). Middle America, south to Ecuador. M. guerilla. 



4. Wing, 6.90-7.50 ; tail, 7.00-8.40 ; tarsus, 2.20-2.45; middle toe, 1.15- 

 1.25. Adult [rufous phase): Above rusty-chocolate, becoming gray- 

 ish-brown on the crown ; throat light chocolate ; jugulum, and entire 

 other lower parts transversely barred with dusky and white. Tail 

 crossed by 4-5 bars of white. Young : Above dark sooty brown, 

 indistinctly barred with light rusty ; crown and nape sooty black. 

 Tail crossed with 6-7 bars of white. Lower parts buflf'y white, or 

 buff, without rufous tinge on breast. Venezuela and Columbia. 



Z. zonothorax. 



1 The terminal bar is not counted in these diagnoses. 




482 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



5. Wing, 6.60-7.10 ; tail, 7.30-7.80 ; tarsus, 2.30-2.45 ; middle toe, 1.15- 

 1.30. Adult {plumbeous phase): Above light plumbeous, the wings 

 browner. Tail crossed by four bars of white ; throat light gray ; 

 jugulum more or less washed with light rufous; entire lower parts 

 barred with white and plumbeous. Rufous phase : Above rusty 

 brown, becoming more plumbeous on the crown ; neck and entire 

 jugulum light rufous. Tail crossed by 4-5 bars of white. Young 

 (plumbeous phase): Above grayish-brown or umber; tail crossed by 

 6-8 bars of white spots ; throat white, with a half-crescent branch 

 behind the ear-coverts ; breast scarcely tinged with rufous. Rufous 

 phase : Above dark rufous or rusty chocolate, the crown darker and 

 more slaty. Tail crossed by 6-7 interrupted bars of white ; throat 

 and half crescent behind ear-coverts, white ; breast more or less 

 strongly washed with rufous. Eastern South America, south to a 

 little beyond latitude 10 South (Sharpe); Venezuela and Guiana 

 (Sharpe). M. ruficollis. 



6. Wing, 6.50 ; tail, 6.30 ; culmen, .60 ; tarsus, 2.30 ; middle toe, 1.20. 

 Adult (plumbeous phase) : Tail crossed by two bars of whitish or pale 

 brownish-gra3 r . Above uniform dark plumbeous, the tail darker and 

 the wings browner. Throat light-gray ; rest of lower parts white, 

 marked everywhere with very narrow bars of dark plumbeous, these 

 bars very narrow and distinct on the flanks and crissum. Peruvian 

 Amazons. M. pelzelni. 



B. Outer toe not longer than the inner. (Fig. 9.) 



Fie:. 9. 



M. concentricus. Nat. size. 



/. Tail shorter than the wing. Wing, 7.10-7.75 ; tail, 6.30-7.00 ; culmen, 

 .60 ; tarsus, 2.25-2.45 ; middle toe, 1.00-1.08. Adult : Tail crossed by 

 1-4 narrow bars, or lines, of white. Above dull plumbeous, the tail 

 darker and the wings browner. Throat grayish-white ; other lower 

 parts white, the crissum, anal region, and lining of the wing, and 

 sometimes the flanks and tibia;, immaculate ; the other portions barred 

 with plumbeous. Tropical South America. M. concentricus. 



1. MlCRASTtTR MELANOLETJCTJS. 



Sparrius melanolcucus, Vicill., Nouv. Diet. Hist. Nat., x, 1817, 327 ; 



Enc. Moth., 12liT. [Adult,] 

 tficrastur semitorquatus, Scl. and Salv., Ibis, 1839, 218; Pr. Zool. Soc. 



Lond., 1869, 365; Norn. Av. Neotr., 1873, 120. Strickl., Orn. Syu., 



I, 1855, 122. Lawr., Ann. N. Y. Lye, VII, 1862, 8 ; IX, 1868, 134; 



Mem. Boston Soc, N. H., II, 1874, 299. Salvin, P. Z. S., 1870. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 483 



Ridgw., Pr. Boston Soc, May, 1873, 76. Sharpe, Cat. Ac. B. M., 

 1874, 75. 



CUmacocercus semitorquatus, Caban. J. f. Orn., 18G5, 407. 

 Falco brachypterus, Temra., PI. Col., I, 1824, pis. 116 (juv.), et 141 (adult). 

 Astur brachypterus, Spix, Av. Bras., I, 1824, 9. Vig. Zool. Jonrn., 

 I, 338. Stepb. Zool., XIII, pt. 2, 28. 



Nisus brachypterus, Less., Man. Orn., I, 1828, 98 ; Tr. Orn., 62. 

 Cav., Reg. An., ed. 2, I, 334. Schleg., Mus. Pays-Bas, Astures, 

 1862, 52. 



Accipiter brachypterus, Gray, List B. Brit. Mns., 69. 

 Micrastur brachypterus, Gray, Gen. B., ed. 2, 1841, 6; fol. 1849, 28, 

 sp. 1, pi. 10, f. 1 ; Hand List, I, 31, No. 290. Bonap. Consp., 1, 1850, 

 30. Pelz. Reis., Nov. Vog., 1865, 12 ; Orn. Bras., 1871, 7, 398. 

 Herpetotheres brachypterus, Kaup, Contr. Orn., 1850, 71. 

 Rhynchomegas brachypterus, Bonap., Rev. et Mag. Zool., 1854, 537. 

 "Falco leucomelas, Illig.," Lieut., Verz. Doubl., 1823, 62. 

 Garnifex naso, Less., L'Echo du Monde savant, annee 9, 1081 ; Rev. 

 Zool., 1842, 379. 



Falco per contator, Cabot, Journ. Bost. Soc., N. H., IV, 1844, 462. 

 Nigriblanco, Azara, Apunt, I, 1802, 124. 



Hab. The entire Intertropical Region (except Andean district), 

 north to Mazatlan (Pacific coast) and Vera Cruz (Atlantic coast), 

 and south to Paraguajr. Not yet recorded from the Andean dis- 

 trict south of New Granada, nor from western Amazonia. 



Sp. Char. Wing, 9.70-11.70 ; tail, 9.60-13.00 ; culmen, .80-1.00 ; 

 tarsus, 3.10-3.65 ; middle toe, 1.60-2.05. Third to sixth quill 

 longest; first much the shortest. Above plumbeous-black or 

 blackish-brown, interrupted by a more or less conspicuous nuchal 

 collar of white or ochraceous. Tail crossed by 4-7 narrow light 

 bands, usually interrupted. The last one terminal and the first 

 concealed. Adult : Lower parts entirely immaculate, the color 

 varying from pure white to deep ochraceous-buff; upper parts un- 

 variegated ; nuchal collar distinct. Young: Lower parts more 

 or less spotted or barred with blackish ; upper parts usually more 

 or less variegated with indistinct bars or transverse spots of 

 ochraceous or dull rusty ; nuchal collar more interrupted. "Iris 

 brown." 



Remarks. It is a noteworthy fact that all the specimens from 

 Costa Rica in the series we have examined are deep ochraceous be- 

 neath, while those from Mazatlan and Colima are pure white. 

 Whether this difference results from climatic causes, or merely 

 different stages of growth of the feathers, it is difficult to decide; 




484 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



but the latter conjecture is rather favored by the circumstance 

 that of four specimens from Tehauntcpec (an intermediate localit}' 

 by the way), three obtained in August, and just freshly moulted, 

 are ochraceous beneath, while one shot in February, with older 

 plumage, is white. 



Notwithstanding that this species has been so generally iden- 

 tified with the Sparvius semitorquatus of Vieillot (Nouv. Diet. 

 Hist. Nat., x. 1817, 327, et Enc. Meth., 1263), we cannot concur 

 in this opinion, the very first clause in the diagnosis of that bird 

 precluding the possibility of it being this species. The diagnosis 

 is as follows : 



" VEpevier a demi-collier roux. 6. S. Semi-torquatus. S. 

 vertice albo, nigricante transversim striato; semi-torque rufes- 

 cente, fusco terminato ; corpore supra nigricante, rufescente 

 striate; ventre albo ; rostro fusco; pedibus flavescentibus." 



It being well known that the present species always, in every 

 stage of plumage, has the crown uniform black, we do not see 

 how the description of a bird with the "crown white, transversely 

 barred witli black," can possibby be made to apply to it. 



List of Specimens in U. S. National Museum. 



Locality. 



Panama E.R 



Colima, Mex 



Sierra Madre, Mex. 



When col- 

 lected. 



February . . 

 April, 1SH3 . 



Costa Rica (San Jose) 



Mir ad or, Mex 



Mazatlan, Mex 



Costa Kica (Angostura) 



" (Raucho Rodondo) 



Mazatlan, Mex. 



Tehuantepec, Mex.. 

 it i< 



Costa Kica 



1 1 



" Lipurio 



October 



Nov.' 16',is67 

 March, 1868 



Tehuantepec, Mex 



Costa 1'iica (Talamanea). 



November ., 



Feb. 19. 1872 

 1874 



From whom re- 

 ceived. 



McLeannan. . 



Xautus 



1 1 



1 1 



Carmiol 



Sartorius .... 



J. Grayson . . 



Carmiol 



von Frantzius 

 it 1 1 



J. Grayson . . 



F. Sumichrast.. 

 it ii 



W. M. Gabb... 



Sumichrast 

 M. Gabb... 



Nature of 

 specimen. 



S. (Skin.) 



S. 



s. 



S. 



S. 



s. 

 s. 

 s. 

 s. 



M. (Mounted ) 



S. 



M. 



S. 



S. 



s. 



s. 

 s. 

 s. 

 s. 



S. 



s. 



Other specimens examined. Mus. Acad. N. S. Philad.,7 ; Boston Soc, 2 ; G. N. Lawrence, 3 ; 

 Sumichrast collection, 0. Total, 38. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



485 



2. MlCRASTUR MIRANDOLLII. 



Astur Mirandollei, Schleg., Mus. Pays-Bas, Astures, 1862, 27 ; Ned. 

 Tijdschr. I, 1863, 130. 



Mierastur Mirandollei, Scl. and Salv., Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond. 1867, 

 759 ; lb. 1869, 395 ; Norn. Av. Neotr. 1873, 120. Gray, Hand List, 

 I, 31, No. 391. Pclz., Orn. Bras. IV, 398. Ridgw., Pr. Boston Soc. 

 N. II., May, 1873, 77. Sharpe, Cat. Ace. B. M. 1874, 76. 



" Mierastur macrorhynchus Natt." Pelz., Orn. Novara, 1865, 11; Orn. 

 Bras., 1871, 7. 



Hob. Intertropical Region, north to Costa Rica (Nat. Museum), 

 south to Amazonia. 



Sp. Char. Wing, 8.80-9.30; tail, 7.80-9.00; culmen, .80-.85 ; 

 tarsus, 2.80-3.15; middle toe, 1.30-1.50. Fifth quill longest; 

 first shortest. 



Adult: Above continuous, uniform plumbeous; tail blackish, 

 narrowly tipped with white, and crossed by three narrow bands 

 of white, each inclosing a dusky mottling or of uniform pale 

 grayish-brown. Lower parts, including the lining of the wing 

 and sometimes the maxillae, continuous white, usually with the 

 shafts of some of the feathers black ; the breast sometimes with 

 transverse crescentic spots of pale grayish. 



Young (67,862, Nat. Mus., Costa Rica; Prof. Wm. M. Gabb) : 

 Similar to the adult, but above dark-slate, with a slight sepia cast, 

 below creamy-white, all the feathers bordered with dull brownish- 

 gray and with shaft-streaks of darker, these markings heavy on 

 the jugulum and breast, narrower and fainter posteriorly. Tail 

 as in the adult. Bill bright-yellow, the base of the culmen horn- 

 eolor; cere and orbits duller yellow; tarsi and toes bright yellow ; 

 claws deep black, "iris olive." Wing, 8.80; tail, 8.70; culmen, .80 ; 

 tarsus, 3.10; middle toe, 1.50. Fifth quill longest; first much 

 shortest; outer six appreciably sinuated. Graduation of the tail, 

 1.40. 



Other specimens examined. Mus. Acad. N. S. Philad., 2 ; Boston Soc, 1 ; 

 G. N. Lawrence, 2 ; Total, 6. 




486 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



3. MlCRASTUR GUERILLA. 



Micrastur guerilla, Cassin, Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1848, 87 (Young) ; 

 Journ. Phil. Ac. I, 1850, pi. xl. Gray, Gen. B. I, 1849, 28; Hand 

 List, I, 1869, 31. Bonap. Consp. I, 1850, 30. Strickl. Orn. Syn. I, 

 1S55, 123. Scl. and Salv. P. Z. S. 1869, 368; 1870, 214-838; Norn. 

 Av. Neotr. 1873, 120. Salvin, P. Z. S. 1870, 214-16. Skarpe, Cat. 

 Diurn. Ace. Br. Mus. 1874, 79. 

 "Micrastur concentricus," Scl. P. Z. S. 1856, 285. 

 "Micrastur gilvicollis," Scl. P. Z. S. 1858, 96. Scl. and Salv. Ibis 1859, 



218. Lawr., Ann. N. T. Lye. VII, 1861, 317. 

 "Micrastur xanthothorax," Scl. P. Z. S. 1859, 368. 



" Micrastur r uficollis," Ridgw. Pr. Boston Soc. N. H., May, 1873, 78. (In 

 part.) 



Sab. Middle America, from Vera Cruz, Eastern Mexico, to 

 Ecuador (Guayaquil). 



Sp. Char. Wing, 6.50-7.10; tail, 6.90-7.50; culmen, .55-. 70 5 

 tarsus, 2.20-2.50 ; middle toe, 1.10-1.25. 



Adult. Plumbeous phase: Above uniform plumbeous, the 

 wings slightly browner, and the tail blackish. Tail narrowly 

 tipped with white and crossed by 3-4 narrow oblique bars of white 

 or dull brownish-gray (broader, and always white, on the inner 

 webs). Cheeks and throat ash-gray, the latter becoming lighter 

 centrally. Other lower parts white, barred everywhere, in very 

 regular transverse rays, with dark-plumbeous. Brown phase : 

 Similar, but entire back and wings chocolate, umber, or sepia- 

 brown, contrasting strongly with the plumbeous of the head and 

 neck ; jugulum more or less tinged with brown. 



Young. Spotted phase: Above dark clove-brown, the crown 

 and nape brownish-black ; nape crossed by a collar of white spots, 

 sometimes continuous and conspicuous, often nearly concealed ; 

 scapulars and entire wings indistinctly barred, or transversely 

 spotted, with paler, more rusty-brown, these bars being most con- 

 spicuous on the tertials. Tail dusky-black, tipped with white, 

 and crossed by 4-5 narrow bars of the same. Throat white, this 

 extending upward behind the dark-brown auriculars in the form 

 of a half crescent; remaining lower parts buffy-white or deep- 

 bull' barred (less regularly and finely than in the adult) on the 

 breast and sides with dusky-brown rarely barred over the whole 

 surface. Plain phase: Similar, but the pale-rusty bars on wings 

 and scapulars obsolete, and the colors generally clearer; usually 

 less heavily barred beneath sometimes immaculate. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 487 



Remarks. In all stages of plumage there is a very considerable 

 range of individual variation, as to both size and markings, though 

 the relative proportion of the parts is very uniform. In two 

 adults, one from Coban, Guatemala, the other from Calovevora, 

 Veragua, the throat is clear bluish-gray, the jugulum similar, 

 rayed with very narrow lines of white. In another specimen from 

 Veragua (a male from Calobre) the colors are darker throughout, 

 the bars on the breast being nearly black ; there is a decided 

 brown wash on the jugulum, and the throat is nearly white 

 centrally. A specimen from Vera Paz, Guatemala, and one from 

 San Pedro, Honduras, have the throat pale-gray, slightly tinged 

 with brown posteriori}' ; the bars on the jugulum white and dull- 

 slate in equal width; while the}' are alike in all other respects 

 also. The specimen from Nanegal, Ecuador, is very similar to 

 these. 



The 3 T oung birds (= M. guerilla, Cass., 1. c.) vary individually, 

 so that only the extremes of their plumage need be described. 

 The darkest example is one from the Volcan de Chiriqui (No. 

 4454, E. Arce). In this specimen the lower parts are deep-buff, 

 marked everywhere with regular, sharply-defined broad bars of 

 dark-brown, these bars as distinct and regular as in the adult, 

 but broader, and separated by wider intervals, the ground- 

 color being light buff. The upper parts of this specimen, how- 

 ever, are about of average character. A Vera Paz specimen 

 is very similar, the onl} 7 difference being that the bars are just 

 appreciably narrower, and the ground perceptibly paler buff. The 

 darkest upper plumage is seen in another Veragua specimen, in 

 which the whole upper surface is a very dark sooty-brown, or 

 blackish-umber, the crown and nape brownish-black ; the wings 

 and scapulars show numerous indistinct bars and transverse spots 

 of pale brown. The lower parts are deep buff, tending to ochra- 

 ceous, but the bars are very distant and confined to the breast and 

 sides. The palest example is one from Guatemala (Choctun, Vera 

 Paz, Jan. 1860), in which the lower parts are buffy-white, entirely 

 immaculate, ; the upper parts are dark grayish-brown, or brownish- 

 dusky, the top of the head darker, the wings and scapulars with 

 the lighter bars and spots nearty obsolete. The latter specimen 

 would probably have assumed the plumbeous phase of the adult 

 dress, and the two others the brown-backed phase. On the right 

 side of this specimen is a perfect feather of the new moult, corre- 




488 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



spoiicling with the adult, and the lower feather of the tibial plumes 

 is similar. Another Choctun specimen is almost free from mark- 

 ings below, while the upper parts are absolutely destitute of the 

 lighter spots or bars on the wings or scapulars. 



o 



The following measurements are of specimens in the collection 

 ' Mr. Osbert Salvin : 



Wing. 



Tail. 



Cul- 

 men. 



Tarsus. 



Middle 

 toe. 



Adults. 



Young. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 489 



4. MlCRASTUIt ZONOTHORAX. 



Climacocercus zonothorax, Cabanis, Journ. fur Orn. 1865, 40G. 



Micrastur zonothorax, Scl. and Salv., P. Z. S. 1809, 3G6 ; Nom. Av. 



Neotr. 1873, 120. Gray, Hand-List B., I, 1869, 31. Sharpe, Cat. 



Diurn. Ace. Br. Mus. 1874, 79. 



Hob. New Granada and Venezuela. 



Sp. Char. Wing 6.90-7.50 ; tail 7.60-8.40 ; tarsus 2.20-2.45 ; 

 middle toe 1.15-1.25. 



Adult (brown phase) : Above rusty-chocolate, becoming gradu- 

 ally less reddish on the head, the crown being dull grayish-brown. 

 Tail black, narrowly tipped with white, and crossed by 3-4 

 narrow bars of white. Whole throat light chocolate, like the 

 cheeks; remaining lower parts, including the jugulum, and lining 

 of the wing finely barred with clear dark slate and white, the 

 white bars broader posteriorly but much narrower than the slaty 

 ones on the jugulum. 



Young: Above dark sooty-brown, much tinged with rusty, and 

 indistinctly barred or spotted transversely with lighter rusty over 

 the whole surface. Crown and nape sooty-black, separated from 

 the dusky-brown of the back by a more or less distinct nuchal 

 collar of white or buff. Tail black, narrowly tipped with white, 

 and crossed with 5-6 narrow bands of white. Lower parts buffy- 

 white or deep buff, sometimes immaculate, but generally more or 

 less barred with brownish-clusky ; the throat white, sending up a 

 branch behind the brown ear-coverts, in form of half a crescent. 



Remarks. This form appears to be distinct from both 31. 

 guerilla and 31. ruficollis, between which it is somewhat inter- 

 mediate, though larger than either; but the differences are much 

 harder to define than they are to perceive. The series before us 

 is very small, while only one specimen is an adult; to make the 

 material still more unsatisfactory, two of the three young birds 

 are not full-grown, so that measurements would be useless. 



The 31. zonothorax is considerabl}' larger than either of its 

 allies, the tail especially being longer ; the old bird resembles 

 most that of 31. ruficollis, but the jugulum is barred slate and 

 white, like the breast, instead of being covered by a rufous patch ; 

 the head, too, is browner. The young bird is in colors more like 

 that of M. guerilla, lacking entirely any rufous wash on the 

 breast, and having the upper parts distinctly spotted with light 

 32 




490 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



rusty on a blackish ground ; but the bars on the tail number from 

 5 to 6, instead of 2 to 4. 



The following measurements are from specimens in the collec- 

 tion of Mr. Osbert Salvin: 



Porto Oabello 

 Venezuela . 

 Bogota 



2 



1.25 



i'.is 



5. MlCRASTUR RUFICOLLIS. 



[Ritfous phase.] 



Sparvius rujicollis, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. X, 1817, 322 (adult/) ; Enc. Metk. 



Ill, 1263. Pucheran, Rev. Zool. 1850, 91. 



Mierastur rujicollis, Strickl., Orn. Syn. I, 1855, 122. Scl. and Salv., 



P. Z. S. 1869, 366 ; Norn. Neotrop. 1863, 120. Gray, Hand List, 



I, 1860, 366. Ridgw., Pr. Boston Soc. N. H. XVI, May, 1873, 



78 (part). Sharpe, Cat. Ace. Br. Mus. 1874, 76 (part). 

 Faleo xanthothorax, Temm., PI. Col. I, 92, 1824 (adult). Spix, Av. Bras. 



I. 1824, 19. 



Nisus xanthothorax, Less., Man. Orn. I, 96; Tr. Orn. 58. Cuv., 



Reg. An. ed. 2, 334. 



Accipiter xanthothorax, Gray, List B, Brit. Mus. 69. Cassin, Proc. 



Ac. Nat. Sc. Phila. 1848, 88. 



Glimaeocereus xantlwtliorax, Burm., Syst. Ueb. II, 1856, p. 122. 



Mierastur xanthothorax, Gray, Gen. B. fol. sp. 2. Bonap., Consp. 



I, 1850, 30. Pelz., Orn. Nov. 1865, 12; Orn. Bras. I, 1868, 399. 



Herpetotheres xantJiothorax, Kaup, in Contr. Orn. 1850, 71. 

 '! F<dco leucauchen, Temm., PI. Col. 1823, pi. 36 (young?) Pucheran, 



Rev. Zool. 1852, 91. 



Astur leucauchen. Less., Man. Orn. I, 92. Cuv., Reg. An. ed. 2, 



332, 



Ni&us leucauchen, Less., Tr. Orn. 60; Rev. Zool. 1850, 91 (fide 



Pelzeln). 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 491 



[Plumbeous pfiase.] 



? Sparvius gilvicollis, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. N. H. X, 1817, 323 (adult) - 



Enc. Meth. Ill, 1264. Pucheran, Rev. Zool. 1850, 91. 



Micrastur gilvicollis, Pelz., Orn. Bras. 399 ; Orn. Nov. 1865, 10. 

 Micrastur leucauchen, Bonap., Consp. I, 1850, 30. Strickl., Orn. Syn. I, 



1855, 123 ; Scl. and Salviu, P. Z. S. 1869, 367 (excl. syn.), [adult!] 



Ridgway, Pr. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist. XVI, May, 1873, 80 [young]. 



Accipiter leucauchen, Graj r , List B, Brit. Mus. 68. Cassin, Pr. Ac. 



Nat. Sci. Philada. 1848, 88. 

 ? Falco trifasciatus, Natterer, Cat. Msc. No. 954 (fide Pelzeln). 



Falco concentricus, Pucheran. 

 Micrastur ruficollis, Sharpe, Cat. Ace. Br. Mus. 1874, 76 (part). 



Hab. Eastern South America. 



Sp. Char. Wing, 6.60-7.10; tail, 7.30-7.80; tarsus, 2.30-2.45 ; 

 middle toe, 1.15-1.30. 



Adult. Plumbeous phase : Above light plumbeous, or bluish 

 ash-gray, the wings browner ; tail slate-black, narrowly tipped 

 with white, and crossed by three narrow bars of white. Throat 

 and jugulum very light grayish, the former nearby white centrally, 

 and the latter more or less washed with light rufous. Other 

 lower parts white, everywhere finely barred with narrow and very 

 regular ra3's of plumbeous. Bill black, the basal half of the lower 

 mandible light yellowish. Rufous phase : Above rusty-brown, 

 inclining to rufous ; crown ash-gray or plumbeous, usually in 

 abrupt contrast; neck and entire jugulum light rufous; other 

 lower parts everywhere transversely barred with dusky plumbeous 

 and white. Tail blackish-dusky, narrowly tipped with white, and 

 crossed by 3-4 narrow bars of white, these sometimes obsolete on 

 outer webs. 



Young. Plumbeous phase (= M. leucauchen, Ridgway, I. c.) : 

 Above varying from grayish-brown to umber, interrupted by a 

 more or less conspicuous nuchal collar of whitish spots ; tail 

 blackish-dusky, narrowly tipped with white, and crossed by 5-7 

 rows of interrupted transverse spots of the same. Throat white, 

 sending up a conspicuous branch, in the form of a half crescent, 

 behind the brownish ear-coverts. Beneath white, more or less 

 tinged with buff; the breast sometimes washed with light rufous, 

 the whole surface (except throat and anal region) narrowly barred 

 with blackish, the bars growing fainter on the breast. Rufous 

 phase (= Falco leucauchen, Temminck ?) : Above varying from 

 dark rufous to dusky chocolate ; crown darker and more slaty. 




492 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Tail dusky, narrowly tipped with white, and crossed by 5-6 narrow, 

 interrupted bars of the same. Throat and half crescent behind 

 the ear-coverts, whitish; breast more or less washed with rufous; 

 other lower parts white or buff, transversely barred with dusky. 



Remarks. In this species there is a gradual transition in 

 certain specimens between the two extremes described as the 

 plumbeous and rufous "phases." 



a. Plumbeous phase : A specimen from Bahia has the entire 

 dorsal surface clear, light bluish-plumbeous, the remiges inclining 

 more to brownish-gray. The jugulum has only a faint wash of 

 very light rufous. Another specimen from the same localit}^ has 

 each feather of the dorsal region bordered terminally with dull 

 rust}', while the entire wings are strongly washed with this color; 

 the jugulum is more extensiveby washed with a deeper shade of 

 rufous. The young birds examined agree quite closely with the 

 terms of the above diagnosis, the series exhibiting little individual 

 variation, shown chief!}' in the amount of rufous tinge on the 

 breast, which is sometimes extensive, and again entirely absent. 



b. Rufous phase: Two specimens from Brazil (Rio Janeiro 

 and Bahia) have the entire dorsal region uniform dull rufous, 

 abruptly contrasted against the dull plumbeous of the nape and 

 crown. Another has the plumbeous of the crown and nape ex- 

 tended back on the interscapulars (even tinging some of the sca- 

 pulars) which are merel}' bordered with rusty ; the effect being 

 a gradual blending or admixture on the back, of the plumbeous 

 and rufous. 



The bars beneath in these three specimens vary from plumbeous- 

 gray to brownish-black, the white bars being on different speci- 

 men of different relative width to the dark bars. The specimen 

 from Rio Janeiro has the tail-bars obsolete on the outer webs, 

 which are uniform brownish-dusky. 



In the young there is even greater variation than in the adults. 

 Two Brazilian specimens vary as follows: One is uniform, very 

 dark blackish sepia above, the back being as dark as, and very 

 little different from, the crown ; the jugulum is everywhere 

 barred, both in the white on the upper portion, and in the rufous 

 of the lower part, while the bars of the lower parts are very 

 regular and narrow, upon a white ground, almost exactly as in 

 the adult. The other specimen has the back dull rufous (as in 

 the adult), and the crown dull brownish-slate, in strong contrast; 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 493 



the sides of the breast are rufous, the jugulum is unbarred, and 

 the bars of the lower parts are broad, distant, and brownish-black 

 upon a buff ground. 



There can be no question as to the proper specific name of this 

 species, the Sparvius ruficollis of Vieillot, and the Falco xantho- 

 thorax of Temminck being unmistakably the adult in the rufous 

 plumage. Whether the Sparvius gilvicollis of Vieillot is this bird 

 in its gray plumage (=31. leucauchen, Scl. and Salvin, nee Falco 

 leucauchen, Temm.?), is a question which can only be decided by 

 reference to Vieillot's type, should it yet exist. It probably is 

 this bird, however, or the one which we name 31. pelzelni (see 

 p. 494), for it certainly is not the 31. concentricus of Pelzeln, as 

 we fully demonstrate under the head of that species. 



The Falco leucauchen of Temminck cannot be identified with 

 certainty from his figure or description. The latter comes near 

 the young of the rufous phase of the present species, while the 

 specimens of the latter have usually been labelled with that name. 

 As we recollect them, 1 the specimens in the museum of the Phila- 

 delphia Academy, which were called 31. leucauchen,' 1 agree exactly 

 with a specimen now before us, belonging to Mr. Salvin's collec- 

 tion, and which we regard as unquestionably tlie young of the 

 plumbeous phase of 31. ruficollis, called by Sclater and Salvin 

 31. leucauchen. But notwithstanding all these circumstances, 

 which together favor the probability of the correctness of the 

 identification, there are several points in Temminck's plate which 

 cannot be reconciled to the young of the species under considera- 

 tion, although it is fair to presume that these discrepancies may 

 have resulted through a faulty representation of the type specimen. 

 Upon examining this figure it will be noticed that the first char- 

 acter which attracts attention is the stripe of white spots over the 

 eye, on each side of the crown, and down each side of the nape. 

 These markings we cannot find in any specimens of ruficollis ; 

 while the latter have a distinct nuchal collar of white spots, not 

 represented in the plate. The crown in this figure is colored rusty 

 brown, like the back, whereas in ruficollis it is either plumbeous 

 or, as is very rarely the case, blackish. The plate fails to show, 

 too, the well-defined half-crescent behind the brownish ear-coverts, 



1 Unfortunately we have now no opportunity of comparing them. 



2 See Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History, XVI, May, 

 1873, pp. 35, 40. 




494 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



which is so marked a feature in the young of 31. ruficollis. "While 

 " les plumes blanches qui composent cette bland cervicale sont 

 terminees de noir ; le sommet de la tete et de Voysiput sont noirs ; 

 le dos, le croupion et les ailes d'un brun sombre, et les rerniges 

 rayees de noirdtre" is a description which will scarcely apply to 

 any specimens we have seen. The bird is unmistakably a Micras- 

 tur, but that it is undoubtedly this species we are by no means 

 convinced. 



The following specimens, in the collection of Mr. Osbert Salvin, 

 have been examined and measured : 



Wing. 



Tail. 



Cul- 

 men. 



Tarsus. 



Middle 

 toe. 



Adults. 



Bahia 



Plumbeous phase. 



Rufous phase. 



Bahia . 

 Rio Janeiro 



1.15 

 1.15 



1.18 

 1.20 

 1.15 



Young. 



6. MlCRASTUR PELZELKI, UOV. Sp. 



Micrastur pelzelni, Ridgway, MSS. 

 Sp. Char. Wing longer than the tail ; tail crossed by 3 light 

 bars, including the terminal one. Adult % (in collection Osbert 

 Salvin, Jarayacu, Upper Uca3 r ali, Peruvian Amazons, August 2 

 18C)5; E. Bartlett): Above uniform continuous dark plumbeous 

 Tail darker, narrowly tipped with white, and crossed I)}- two nar 

 row bands of dull brownish-gray, becoming white on the inner 

 webs. Side of head and neck plumbeous-gray ; throat light graj 

 Rest of lower parts white, everywhere marked with very narrow 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 495 



transverse bars of dark plumbeous or slate; these bars widest on 

 the breast, but even here narrower than the white ; on the flanks 

 and crissum they are paler, very narrow, and distant. Wing, 

 6.50 ; tail, 6.30 ; culmen, .60 ; tarsus, 2.30; middle toe, 1.20. 



Remarks. This species most closely resembles 31. guerilla in 

 its plumbeous phase, to which it is so very similar that we had 

 referred it to that species, not making much, at the first com- 

 parison, of the smaller number of tail-bands. But after measuring 

 carefully all the specimens of 31. guerilla, and finding that the 

 minimum length of tail in that form is 6.90 inches, ran oingj thence 

 to 7.50, and always greater than the length of the wing, we were 

 quite surprised to find the tail of this specimen to be only 6.30 

 in length, or decidedly shorter than the wing, which, as were also 

 the other parts, was about as in the average of 31. guerilla. In 

 abbreviated tail it is like 31. concentricits, and it appears that Mr. 

 Salvin had referred it to that species, since the label bore in his 

 handwriting the name " 31. gilvicollisj' 1 as did also a true 31. cun- 

 centricus in the collection ; but it differs very essentially in the 

 relative length of the lateral toes, the outer one being decidedly 

 longer than the inner, instead of barely equal to it, or appreciably 

 shorter ; while the barred crissum and under wing-coverts dis- 

 tinguish it at a glance from that species. 



This may possibly be the 31. gilvicollis of Pelzeln 1 (loc. cit.), but 

 the latter is very much more likely to be the plumbeous phase of 

 31. ruficollis, called by Sclater and Salvin 31. leucauchen, and by 



1 " M. pileo, capitis et colli lateribus, nucha, dprso, uropygio aliscpie 

 supra cinereaceis, remigibus brunneis, parte basali pogoniorum internorum 

 albo transversim striatis, alarum tectricibus inferioribus albis, brunneo 

 transverse fasciolatis, gula albescente grisea, jugulo, pectore et abdomine 

 albis, dense brunneo transverse fasciolatis (fasciis 6-8 in singula pluma), 

 abdomine imo, corporis lateribus, tibiaruui plumis et caudse tectricibus in- 

 ferioribus ejusdem coloris fasciis rarioiibus, angustioribus, cauda? rectricibus 

 nigrescente-brunneis apicibus albis, fasciis transversis albis angustis tribus 

 sequidistantibus, rostro corneo basi flavo, pedibus flavis. Longit. 13^ 14 /r , 

 alffi 6, 9-10'", cauda? 6^-7", rostri a rictu 9-11'", tarsus 2", 3-4'". 



Avis juvenis differtis notaeo obscure brunneo, uropygii plumis punctis 

 albis notatis, genis brunneo et ochraceo variegatis, fascia transversa alba 

 utrique infra genas versus nucham ducta cum nucha? plumis albo-maculatis 

 collare interruptum formantibus, gula alba, gastrgeo pallide ochraceo fasciis 

 brunneis rnulto rarioribus et angustioribus, cauda? fasciis tribus interruptis 

 et passim obsoletis. 




496 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Sharpe the "adult male" of 31. ruficollis. We quote Pelzeln 's 

 remarks as given in the "Ornithology of the Novara," pages 10 

 and 11. 



" Micrastur giloicollis steht 31. concentricus sehr nahe, aber 

 seine Fliigel sind kiirzer, der Schwanz ist zeimlich bedeutend 

 langer. Die Farbe des alten Yogels ist lichter, mehr ascligrau, die 

 Binden der Unterseite sind schmaler und dichter gestellt und 

 erstreeken sieh auch iiber die Unterschwanzdecken ; der Schwanz 

 zeigt an den Individuen jedes Alters und Geschlechtes ausser 

 dein Endsaumedrei wiesse Binden, welche am jungen Vogel und 

 an dem aus Caj'enne sclimal, unterbrochen und hie und da ver- 

 loschen, an dem alten Mannchen und dem Weibchen von Borba 

 breiter und sehr hervortretend sind. Die dunkeln Querstreifen 

 verschwinden an den beiden Yogeln in Ubergangskleide am 

 Unterbauch, den Seiten, den Unterschwanzdecken und Tibien- 

 federn ganzlich oder sind nur schwach anaredeutet. Bei alien 

 Exemplaren, ausser dem von Ca3 T enne,ziegen die Innenfahnen der 

 Schwungfedern, ausser den weissen Querbinden gegen die Basis 

 zu, bis nahe gegen die Spitze kin iihnliche oberhalb lichtbraune, 

 unterhalb weisse, woven bei 31. concentricus nur an einem oder 

 dem anderen Exemplare schw r ache Andentungen zu sehen sind. 

 Am alten Mannchen von 31. gilvicollis nahern sich die vorderen 

 Schuppen der Tarsen sehr der Schilderform." 



7. Micrastur concentricus. 



??? Falco concentricus, Illiger, Mus. Berol. 



??? Nisus concentricus, Less., Tr. Orn. 



Climacocercus concentricus, Cabanis, in Erich. Archiv, 1844, I, 205 ; in 

 Tschudi Fauna Peruana, 18, 98 (white belly and lower tail-coverts !) ; 

 in Schonib. Reise Br. Guiana, III, 735. 



Micrastur concentricus, Pelz., Orn. Nov. 1865, 9 ; Orn. Braz., I, 1868, 

 399. Ridgw., Pr. Boston Soc N. H. XVI, Dec. lo73, p. 81. 



Falco senex, Natterer, in Mus. Vindob. (fide Pelzeln). 



Micrastur gilvicollis, Scl. & Salv. P. Z. S. 1869, 368 (not Sparvius gilvi- 

 collis Vieili,., 1817). Norn. Av. Neotr. 1873, 120. Sharpe, Cat. 

 Ace. Br. Mus. 1874, 78. 



Hab. Tropical South America, from New Granada and Trini- 

 dad to Peru (Bolivia?) and Brazil. Brazil (Mus. Boston Soc), 

 Amazonia [Am. 3his., N. Y.), ? Bolivia (D'Orb.), Bahia, Guiana, 

 Bio Negro and Bio Janeiro (Pelzeln); Capiru Biver, Para, 

 Bogota, and Trinidad {Sharpe), Cayenne (Mus. 0. Salvin). 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 497 



Sp. Char. Wing, 7.10-7.75 ; tail, 0.30-7.00 ; culmen, .GO ; tarsus, 

 2.25-2.45; middle toe, 1.00-1.08. Adult: Above uniform plum- 

 beous; tail, blackish-dusky, narrowly tipped with white, and 

 crossed 3-4 narrow bars, or lines, of the same. Beneath white, 

 the throat sometimes faintly tinged with ashy, the breast and sides 

 with narrow transverse bars of dusky, anal region, crissum, and 

 lining of the wing, always immaculate. 



Remarks This very distinct species may be immediately dis- 

 tinguished by the peculiar proportions of the lateral toes, and by 

 having the tail shorter than the wing ; while in its adult dress it 

 is unique in the white thoat and unbarred crissum and anal region, 

 as well as by the yellowish instead of dusky color of the bill, 

 though we are not sure of the constancy of the latter feature. 



The shade of plumbeous of the upper parts generally inclines 

 to brownish posteriorly, and becomes more bluish toward the 

 head, especially on the neck ; the feathers of the lower half of the 

 rump are white, tipped with plumbeous. 



A specimen from Cayenne, in Mr. Salvin's collection, has not 

 only the parts described, but also the abdomen, flanks, and tibiae, 

 unbarred ; the crown is decidedly darker than the back, and the 

 neck has a very perceptible bluish cast. Other peculiar features 

 mark this as a young bird in transition plumage. 



The proper name for this species is involved in considerable 

 uncertainty from the difficulty of ascertaining just what bird two 

 of the older authors Vieillot and Lesson had in view when they 

 described their Sparoius gilvicollis and Nisus concentricus. Herr 

 von Pelzeln (Orn. Nov. p. 10) identifies in the former the bird 

 which we describe as the plumbeous phase of M. ruficollis, while 

 the latter he considers to be the bird now under consideration. 

 Messrs. Sclater and Salvin, however, differ from Herr Pelzeln 

 (Proc. Zool. Soc, 1859, p. 368), and regard these two names as 

 synonymous, basing their opinion on the fact that M. Puclieran 

 had compared the types of each, then in the Paris Museum, and 

 had pronounced them indentical; and gilvicollis being the older of 

 the two names, Messrs. Sclater and Salvin accordingly adopted that 

 for the present bird. We are not so ready, however, to accept M. 

 Pucheran's conclusions as a final settlement of the point, for the 

 bird which Vieillot describes as Sparvius gilvicollis is certainly 

 not this bird, and the error of this indentification becomes at once 

 apparent upon reading Vieillot's description, which is as follows, 




498 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



the points of disagreement with the characters of the present 

 bird being; italicized : 



" L'Epervier a gorge cerdree. 9. S. Grilvicollis. S. supra caeru- 

 lescente-griseus ; guld cinered; corpore subtus fusco alboque trans- 

 versim striato ; rostro fusco ; pedibus flavis. 



" D'un gris-bluatre en dessus; gorge cendree ; dessous du corps 

 raye en travers de brun et de blanc ; bee brun ; pieds jaunes. 



" Cet oiseau, que nous avons vu an museum d'histoire naturelle, 

 en dont nous ne connoissons pas le pays natal, est d'un gris-bleu- 

 atre sur toutes les parties superieures; cendree sur la gorge; 

 raye en travers de brun et de blanc sur le devant du cou et sur les 

 parties posterieures ; on remarque sur le dessous des pennes cau- 

 dales, quarre lignes blanches, etroites er transversales ; le que est 

 d'une longueur moj^enne." 



It will be seen from the above that Sparvius gilvicollis, Vieillot, 

 had a gray throat, a dusky bill, and posterior lower parts barred, 

 so that it is impossible to indentify it with this bird, whose diag- 

 nostic features consist in a white throat, and immaculate white 

 posterior lower parts. 



Whether Nisus concentricus of Lesson is this species can only 

 be determined by examination of the type specimen, if it exists. 

 Should it have become lost or destroyed, the name ought to be 

 altogether ignored, since the briefness of the description renders 

 it wholly impossible to tell what species is meant ; while it is also 

 probable that two are included. This description is as follows : 

 " Epervier a quatre lignes ; Nisus concentricus : Falco 

 concentricus, Illig. 



" Le tour des jeux est nu ; l'occiput le dos, le manteau, les ailes, 

 sont d'un bleu ardoise ; la queue est tres-courte, brunatre et blan- 

 chatre, les parties inferieures sont blanchatres, cerclees de brun 

 sur la poitrine et sur le ventre ; le bee et les tarses sont jaunes. 



" La femelle a la tete, le cou, d'un gris efume, ainsi que le dos 

 et les ailes ; les parties inferieures sont grises, raye*es finement de 

 brun. Cette espece habite Ca3'enne, d'oul'a rapportee M. Poiteau. 

 (Mus. de Paris.)" [Lesson, Traite Ois., I, 1831, 60.] 



From this description alone, it is absolutely impossible to tell 

 what species is meant, but the clause " le bee et les tarses sont 

 jaunes^ renders it somewhat probable that the bird is the same 

 as that which Herr Pelzeln identified as M. concentricus. 



There can be no doubt, however, that the present bird is the 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 499 



Micrastur concentricus of Pelzeln; but whether that gentleman 

 is right in his identification of Lesson's description, we are not 

 able to decide ; but, for the benefit of those who may have an 

 opportunity to examine Lesson's type, we will say, that, should 

 it have the outer toe not perceptibly longer than the inner, 1 the 

 conclusion is correct, for the bird now under consideration differs 

 essentially from every other one of the genus in this remarkable 

 respect. Should there be no way of deciding this point by exami- 

 nation of Lesson's type, the species might be called M. concentri- 

 cus, Pelzeln, which name we feel justified, under the circum- 

 stances, in adopting. Pelzeln's description of this species is as 

 follows : 



" M. pileo, capitis et colli lateribus, nucha, dorso et uropygio 

 schistaceis, alis supra concoloribus sed magis brunneseentibus, 

 remigibus brunneis parte basali pogoniorum internorum albo 

 transverse fasciolatis, gula grisco-alba, jugulo, pectore et abdo- 

 mine albis brunnes transverse fasciolatis (faciis 5-t in singula 

 pluma), abdomine imo, corporis lateribus et tibiarum plumis 

 ejusdem colons fasciis rarioribus angustioribus, belricibus caudal 

 inferioribus albis haud fasciatus, caudse rectrieibus nigres centibus 

 apicibus albis fasciis transversis angustis albis duabus, una 

 versus basin altera medium collocata, vel (solummodo in indi- 

 viduis nonnullis adultis) fascia unica post medium sita, rostro 

 corneo interdum basi, interdum apice flavo, pedibus flavis. 

 Longit 13| usque 14", alae Gf-I", caudse 6^, rostri a rictu 10- 

 12'", tars. 2" 3-4'". 



" Avis junior differtis fascia transversa albo brevi utrinque infra 

 genas versus nucham ducta, pectore et abdomine ochraceo-lavatis 

 fasciis brunneis multo rarioribus et angustioribus, abdomine infe- 

 riore, corporis lateribus et tibiarum plumis fasciis nullis." [Orn. 

 Nov. 1865, 9.] 



There is but one feature in Pelzeln's description of his M. con- 

 centricus which does not accord with our concentricus, and that 

 is the number of bands on the tail, which are stated to be from 

 one to two, besides the terminal one, whereas in the specimens of 

 our bird which we have seen, amounting in all to eight examples, 

 the number varies from three to four ! Should it be possible that 

 there are two species with immaculate white lower tail-coverts, it 



1 The claw is not included ; see figs. 8 and 9, pp. 481, 482. 




500 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



should be borne in mind that our bird has the inner toe (exclusive 

 of the claw) elongated to beyond the third joint of the middle toe, 

 instead of falling considerably short of it, as in 31. guerilla, 31. 

 rujicollis, and 31. zonocercus, as well as the two larger species, 

 while the outer toe extends no further, if as far, as the inner one. 

 (See fig. 0, p. 482.) 



It is quite likely, however, that a large number of tail-bands is 

 characteristic of younger, and fewer bands distinctive of older 

 birds, there probably being, as in 31. mirandollii, but little differ- 

 ence between the plumage of the old and young. A circumstance 

 in favor of this supposition is that a specimen in Mr. Salvin's 

 collection having four bands on the tail, besides the terminal one, 

 shows several strong signs of immaturity, the bill being yellow, 

 the feathers of the under parts, particularly the flanks and crissum, 

 having a fluffy downy texture, while those of the sides have a 

 strong ochraceous tinge. In addition to these suggestive pecu- 

 liarities, a single feather on the breast, of the new molt, has wider 

 and more numerous bars than the others, they numbering 7 besides 

 the basal gray, while on the others there are but 5. 



Pelzeln. describes the young (first plumage) as differing in 

 having a short transverse bar of white behind the cheeks and 

 extending towards the nape, the breast and abdomen washed 

 with ochraceous and fasciated with distant and narrow bars of 

 brown, the lower part of the abdomen, the tibiae, and the sides 

 of the body without bars. The first feature is plainly visible in 

 the bird before us, in a quite well-marked white crescent behind 

 the ear-coverts, while it also has the sides, abdomen, and tibiae 

 unbarred, besides having a distinct ochraceous wash under the 



wmo-s. 



Sjjecimens Examined. Mus. Philad. Acad. 5 ; Boston Soc. 1 ; 

 N. Y. Mus. 1 ; 0. Salvin, 1. Total 8. 



APPENDIX. 



Biographical notes on M. melanoleucus. 

 The late Colonel Andrew J. Grayson, well known as an in- 

 defatigable collector and observer of birds on the western coast 

 of Mexico, thus describes the habits of this species: l 



1 On p. 299 of " Birds of Western and Northwestern Mexico. Based 

 upon Collections made by Col. A. J. Grayson, Capt. J. Xautus, and Ferd. 

 Bischoff. By George N. Lawrence." <Memoirs Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., 

 Vol. II., pt. iii., No. ii., pp. 263-319. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 501 



"Among the great variety of hawks to be met with in a single 

 day's excursion in the locality of Mazatlan, none are so easily 

 recognized as this peculiar and interesting species. I have only 

 found it in the heavy forests, or the immediate vicinity of a 

 thickly wooded country, where its slender form and lengthened 

 tail attract our attention as it swiftly glides through the tangled 

 woods, with that remarkable ease which we have often noticed in 

 the sharp-shinned hawk (A. fuscus). It appears to be strictly 

 arboreal in its habits, and possessed of wonderful activity, either 

 in springing from branch to branch without opening its wings, or 

 rapidly darting through the intricacies of the brush with appa- 

 rently but little difficulty. I have seldom seen one of these hawks 

 in an open country, and have never seen one flying higher than 

 the tree tops, where they are met with. Its wings are rather 

 short, and its flight is performed by rapidly repeated strokes, 

 only for a short distance at a time. It preys upon various species 

 of wood birds, which it captures by darting upon them on the 

 ground or in the bushes; but the Chachalaca [Ortalida wagleri] 

 is its favorite game; this is a gallinacious bird, or wild chicken, 

 about the size of, or lighter than the common hen, and is entirely 

 arboreal, seldom running upon the ground, but is able by its 

 peculiarly formed feet to cling to, or spring rapidly through, the 

 thickest branches with great agility ; but this hawk follows it 

 with equal facility, until an opportunity offers to strike its prey, 

 then both come to the ground together, the hawk being the lighter 

 bird. I witnessed a scene of this kind that took place when I . 

 was endeavoring to get a shot at a Chachalaca, as it was jumping 

 about the very thick branches of an acacia, overgrown with lianes; 

 it appeared to be in great distress, uttering its harsh notes of 

 alarm, and spreading its fan-shaped tail; suddenly I saw one of 

 these hawks pounce upon it, when with harsh screams of terror 

 and pain the Chachalaca dragged his captive to the ground, where 

 they struggled for a few moments, but the unfortunate bird was 

 soon overcome. The struggling and screams of the Chachalaca 

 created a great commotion among the denizens of the woods ; far 

 and near were heard the harsh cries of other members of its 

 family, and the Urraca Magpie \_Calocitta colliei] with streaming 

 tail and ludicrous gesticulations, as well as the Blue-back Jay 

 \_Cyanocitta beecheyi], and other birds in the neighborhood, 

 gathered around to witness the scene of rapine ; suddenly ap- 




502 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



peared in the midst of this clamor a larger hawk (Buteo harrisi, 

 Aud.), which rushed at once upon the captor of the Chachalaca ; 

 unable to withstand so heavy a charge, he was compelled to give 

 up his honestly captured pre} 7 to a superior force, thus proving 

 the old adage that 'might is right.' The slender but compact 

 figure of our present subject was now seen perched upon a neigh- 

 boring bough, scrutinizing with a vicious eye the more powerful 

 but less active bird of prey, as he vainly attempted to bear off the 

 lifeless form of the Chachalaca; but there was one yet mightier 

 than he: I observed it for a few moments, then shot it, as also the 

 long tailed Hawk, thus securing all three. 



" They build their nest of dry twigs and moss, which is placed 

 in a very tall tree; therefore, I regret that I am unable to describe 

 the eggs." 



Dr. Samuel Cabot in the Boston Journal of Natural History, 

 Yol. IV. pp. 4G2-464, describes this bird under the name of Falco 

 percontator, or Calling Falcon, from its loud calling note, said to 

 be louder and more frequently uttered just before a storm. 1 It is 

 also described as having the boldness and dash of a falcon or true 

 hawk (Nisus), one of them having swooped at a boat-bill which he 

 killed while flying across a stream, while another was observed to 

 chase a dove while on the wing. 



1 Dr. Cabot says the Indians believe that this is "because its bones ache." 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 503 



The following reports were read and referred to the Publication 

 Committee: 



REPORT OF RECORDING SECRETARY. 



The Recording Secretary respectfully reports that during the 

 year ending November 30th, 1875, forty-two members and eleven 

 correspondents have been elected. 



Four members have resigned. 



The following members have died : Rev. Henry S. Spackman, 

 Dr. G. W. Norris, Dr. A. A. Henderson, U. S. N., Dr. R. Bannan, 

 U. S.N., and William E. Whitman. The deaths of Sir Charles 

 Lyell and John Edward Gray, correspondents, were also an- 

 nounced. 



Twenty-seven papers have been presented for publication as 

 follows: Edw. D. Cope, five; R. Ridgway, three; Elliot Coues, 

 three; Thos. G. Gentry, three; W. G. Binney, two; H. R. Morri- 

 son, two ; T. A. Conrad, Dr. Jas. Lewis, E. L. Berthoud, Aug. R. 

 Grote, J. A. Ogden, H. C. Chapman, R. E. C. Stearns, B. F. Lau- 

 tenbach, and 0. A. L. Morch of Copenhagen, each one. Twenty- 

 one of these were ordered to be published in the Proceedings, 

 four in the Journal, one was withdrawn at the request of the 

 author, and one remains yet to be reported upon. 



In addition to the above contributions to the Proceedings and 

 Journal, the verbal communications made at the several meet- 

 ings and published in the Proceedings without being formally 

 referred to committees, have been unusually numerous and im- 

 portant. Those by Dr. Leidy upon the results of his recent 

 microscopical investigations, by Prof. Cope upon the Paleonto- 

 logy of the west and kindred subjects, and by Mr. Thos. Meehan 

 upon vegetable physiology deserve special mention. Interesting 

 verbal communications have also been made by Prof. Frazer, Dr. 

 Chapman, Prof. B. Waterhouse Hawkins, C. Newlin Peiree, Chas. 

 A. Young, Wm. M. Gabb, Geo. Koenig, and Jos. Willcox. 



During the year the concluding thirty pages of the Proceedings 

 for 1874 and 427 pages of the current volume have been published, 

 the latter being illustrated by twenty-four lithographic plates and 

 ninety w T 6od-cuts. 187 pages of the Journal have also been issued 




504 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



before the completion of the illustrative plates as advance copies 

 of Prof. Cope's paper on the Batrachia and Reptilia of Costa 

 Rica. 



Abstracts of such parts of the proceedings of the Academy as 

 might be of popular interest have been published from time to 

 time in the daily papers, with the effect, it is believed, of increasing 

 the interest of the community at large in the welfare of the society, 

 as well as causing a more numerous attendance of members at the 

 meetings. 



Art II. Chap. II. of the P^'-laws was amended by striking out 

 the last sentence and substituting the following words : " Persons 

 under sixteen years of age may be elected members provided 

 their nominations be first approved by the Council. Members 

 under the legal age of twenty-one years are not entitled to vote 

 at any meeting of the Academy nor to serve on committees." 



On August 31, a resolution was adopted requesting the Council 

 to examine the By-laws and report such changes as may be 

 necessary for the better government of the Academy. 



The important events in the history of the Academy during 

 the past year have been the reception of the I. V. Williamson Li- 

 brary Fund more particularly referred to in the Librarian's Report, 

 the sale of the premises at present occupied by the societ}', the 

 removal of the collections to the new building at the S.W. corner 

 of Nineteenth and Race Streets, and the junction of the American 

 Entomological Society with the Academy as a section thereof. 



On February 23, a resolution ..was adopted referring to the 

 Finance Committee for consideration, a proposition to subscribe 

 the sum of $50,000 to the building fund of the Academy. On 

 March 30, a report was received from the committee recommend- 

 ing the appropriation of the sum named upon certain conditions, 

 and a resolution was adopted authorizing the Treasurer to make 

 the subscription when a further sum of $30,000 had been obtained. 

 A resolution was also adopted authorizing a committee appointed 

 at a previous meeting to ascertain the value of the premises at 

 Broad and Sansom Streets, to negotiate the sale of the same. 

 On November 16, this committee reported that the property had 

 been sold for $00,000 to be paid in cash and securities, amounting 

 together it was believed in net value to $56,500, and on No- 

 vember 23, the President and Recording Secretary were author- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 505 



ized and directed to transfer the property according to legal form 

 to the purchaser, Moro Phillips, Esq. 



At the meeting held May 11, a letter was received from the 

 American Entomological Society inquiring on what terms that 

 Society might be allowed to occupy the apartments to be devoted 

 to Entomological purposes in the new building. A committee 

 was appointed to consider the subject in conjunction with a simi- 

 lar committee from the American Entomological Society. At the 

 next meeting of the Academy a report was received and adopted 

 embracing a plan of union by which it was proposed that the Ameri- 

 can Entomological Soeiet}' should become a Section of the Aca- 

 demy. On Oct. 19, the Committee presented a plan of union 

 drawn up in legal form, which was referred to the Council for 

 consideration. Certain amendments proposed by the latter body 

 having been accepted by the American Entomological Society, on 

 Nov. 9, the officers of the Academy were directed to ratify the 

 Articles of Agreement. Properly certified copies of these Articles 

 have been accordingly deposited in the archives of both societies. 



On November 2, the new building having been so far completed 

 as to be ready for the reception of the collections of the Academy, 

 the President announced that the process of moving had been 

 commenced on that day. 



All of which is respectfully submitted. 



Edward J. Nolan, 



Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF LIBRARIAN. 



There were 1940 additions made to the library from January 1 

 to November 30, 1875; being an excess of 280 for the eleven 

 months named over the number received during the twelve months 

 of the preceding year. 



Of these 565 were volumes, 1368 pamphlets and parts of 

 periodicals, and 7 maps, charts, etc.; 1534 were octavos, 300 

 quartos, 76 folios, and 9 maps. 



33 




506 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



They were derived from the following sources : 



Societies 525 



Editors 335 



I. V. Williamson Fund . . . 269 



Rathmell Wilson 170 



Authors 137 



C. P. Parker 113 



Wilson Fund 87 



Department of the Interior . .. 25 



Howard Potts 21 



[saac Lea 13 



Engineer Department, U. S. A. 11 



Henry Wheatland 9 



S. S. Haldeman 7 



Thos. Meehan 7 



Regents of University, New York 6 



Government of India .... G 



Geological Survey of India . . 4 



War Department 3 



Jos. Barnett 3 



Geological Survey of Penna. . 2 



Geological Survey, Ohio ... 2 



Publishers 2 



Jos. Jeanes 1 



Rev. Jas. Saul 1 



Louis Wagner 1 



Jos. Willcox 1 



Edw. D. Cope 1 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr 1 



Minister of Public Works, France 1 



Treasury Department .... 1 



City of Phila 1 



In addition to the above, 174 were paid for from the general 

 funds of the Academy. 



The additions to the library were distributed to the several 

 departments as follows : 



Journals 1364 Physical Science 



Geology 138 j Education . 



General Natural History. . . 84 Voyages and Travels 

 Conchology 84 Bibliography 



Ornithology 



Botany 44 



Entomology 34 



Anatomy and Physiology . .. 28 I Biography 



Mineralogy 28 Chemistry. 



Helminthology 12 I Politics. . 



. . 11 



. . 11 



. . 10 



. . 1(1 



Mammalogy In 



Ichthyology 7 



Herpetology 



224 volumes have been bound during the year, and 51 are now 

 in the hands of the binder. For the expenses of binding as well 

 as for the amounts paid for the books from the several funds, 

 you are respectfully referred to the report of the Treasurer of 

 the Academy. 



The card catalogues of the works on Geology, Mammalogy, 

 and Ornithology, amounting in the aggregate to 2753 titles ex- 

 clusive of cross references, have been completed and the sj'stem 

 of numbering extended to those departments. This work has 

 boon somewhat retarded during the past mouth by the fear that 

 it would be impossible to preserve exactly the same arrangement 

 of the books on the shelves of the library in the new building. 

 Any disturbance of the order in which the numbered volumes are 

 at present placed will, of course, render necessary some revision 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 507 



of the catalogue, and it has been thought well to avoid this as far 

 as possible. The numbering and card register will be extended to 

 the remaining sections of the library as rapidly as possible after 

 the rearrangement of the books in the cases provided in the new 

 building has been perfected. 



At the meeting of the Academy held February 16, The 

 Treasurer announced the munificent donation by Isaiah V. Wil- 

 liamson, Esq., to the Academy of ground rents to the amount of 

 $25,000.00 as a permanent fund for the use of the library. It is 

 confidently hoped that the interest on this sum, together with 

 the portion of the interest derived from the legacy of the late Dr. 

 Thos. B. Wilson devoted to the same use, and amounting together 

 to $1800.00 per annum, will be sufficient, not only to keep the 

 library supplied with the current scientific literature, but also to 

 enable the Library Committee to secure from time to time the 

 many very desirable books of an earlier date which are still want- 

 ing in most of the departments. It will be perceived that 269 

 additions to the library have been already derived from the I. Y. 

 Williamson Fund. The most notable of these additions is a 

 complete set of Curtis' Botanical Magazine, which was long most 

 earnestly desired by the society. It may be well said to consti- 

 tute a comparatively complete botanical library in itself. 



A number of answers to the applications for deficiencies sent 

 last year to corresponding societies have been received since my 

 last report, and in many cases the volumes applied for have been 

 sent to the Academy. I have great pleasure in acknowledging 

 the obligations of the society to Mr. Wm. S. Vaux, who, during 

 his recent visit to Europe, lost no opportunity of pressing our 

 wants upon the attention of the officers of such societies as he 

 had an opportunity of visiting. We have received, hi conse- 

 quence, valuable contributions from the Academy of Sciences of 

 Bologna, of Naples, of Bruxelles, and from the Zoological Society 

 of London. I have also been advised of the early sending of a 

 valuable series of volumes of the Comptes Rendus of the French 

 Academy, in which the library has been deficient since the death 

 of our benefactor Dr. Thos. B. Wilson, and which, together with 

 parts of the Annales des Mines, and other desiderata, have been 

 secured directly through the agenc}^ of Mr. Vaux. 



The thanks of the Academy are also specially due to Mr. Rath- 

 mell Wilson for the liberal donation of 170 volumes from the 




508 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



library of his brother, the late Dr. Thos. B. Wilson. Some of 

 these were already in the possession of the Academy, but the col- 

 lection contains many valuable works not before in the library, 

 while most of the duplicates are in better condition than the copies 

 on our shelves. 



All of which is respectfully submitted. 



Edward J. Nolan, Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS FOR 18*75. 



The Curators, in presenting their usual annual report, announce 

 the important fact that the new building, erected for the Academy 

 at the corner of 19th and Race Sts., is so far completed as to be 

 ready for the reception of its collections. Indeed, the removal of 

 the Museum from the building we now occupy was commenced 

 on the 2d of November and was completed the last week. It is 

 proposed shortly to commence the removal of the Library, and the 

 Curators anticipate having our new hall ready for the future 

 meetings of the Academy early in January of the coming year. 

 The removal of the Museum was carried on with unexpected 

 rapidity, but with the necessary care, under the able direction 

 and incessant attention of two of my colleagues, Mr. Tryon and 

 Mr. Parker. Indeed, I feel that the Academy is greatly indebted to 

 these two gentlemen for the successful manner in which they have 

 carried out this responsible charge, and I hope that we may be still 

 able to secure their services for the necessary arrangement of the 

 Museum in our new building. 



During the last year an unusual amount of labor was carried 

 on in putting the collections of the Museum in the best condition 

 for study. 



The ornithological collection, which, from its enormous size, is 

 the most serious charge of the Curators, has suffered in past years 

 a considerable amount of damage from the attacks of insects. 

 Latterly, much attention has been devoted to it, and we hope 

 hereafter to be able to keep it in better condition. During the 

 last year Dr. James A. Ogden, Mr. Russell Hill, and Miss Sarah 

 P. Monks, have been engaged in arranging the collection. In this 

 time they have identified, labelled, and catalogued 6900 specimens 

 of birds, of about 1300 species comprised in 38 families. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 509 



The alcoholic specimens generally of the Museum have been 

 looked over by Mr. Parker. 



The alcoholic collection of mollusks, myriapods, spiders, etc., 

 comprising about 500 jars, have been arranged and labelled by 

 Mr. Parker. 



All the crustaceans, amounting to upwards of 1050 species, 

 have been identified, neatly arranged, labelled and catalogued by 

 Mr. Parker and Mr. Tryon. 



The collection of echinoderms has been properly arranged and 

 labelled by the same gentlemen. 



All the specimens received during the year have been deposited 

 in their proper places and labelled. 



The Botanical Committee, Messrs. Meehan, Burke, and Redfield, 

 and Miss Bodle} 7 and Dr. Leffman, have continued their labors in 

 the arrangement of the Herbarium. 



The contributions to the Museum during the year are as 

 follows : 



Mammals. A Giraffe; a Virginia Deer; a Bock Kangaroo, 

 Petrogale penicillata ; a Porcupine, Hystrix javanieus ; a young- 

 Lion ; 2 Sciurus ; 2 Pavxi galeata; Macacus nemestrinus ; Cerco- 

 pithecus sabseus : and a Sapajon. Presented by the Philadelphia 

 Zoological Society. 



A Japanese Dog, from Dr. W. S. W. Buschenberger ; a Howling 

 Monkey, Mycetes, U. S. of Columbia, from Win. M. Gabb ; a Mary- 

 land Marmot, from Dr. Harrison Allen ; and a small mammal from 

 Fung Chow, China, from Wm. M. Capp. Eleven human skulls 

 were presented by Dr. William H. Jones, U. S. N". 



Birds. Grax carunculata, S. America; Red-breasted Pigeon, 

 Phlogaenas cruenta; Philippines; Casarca variegata,~N. Zealand; 

 and Porphyrio martinica. Presented by the Philadelphia Zoolo- 

 gical Society. 



Fifteen specimens, 9 species, of bird skins, mostly from Gua} r - 

 mas and La Paz, and another collection of 28 bird skins, from the 

 Pacific coast. Presented \>y Dr. Wm. H. Jones, U. S. N. 



A Gray Duck, Chaulelasmus streperus, from C. W. Matthews, 

 and an Ostrich egg, from S. C. McClure. 



Reptiles, Amphibians, and Fishes. An Alligator. Presented by 

 the Philadelphia Zoological Society. 



Two small bottles with reptiles ; three additional species of 

 reptiles, and 33 specimens of 19 species of fishes, from the Pacific 




510 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



coast of Mexico, from Acapulco to Guaymas and La Paz. Pre- 

 sented by Dr. Wm. H. Jones, U. S. N. 



Five species of reptiles, Cold Springs, N. York, and one reptile, 

 from California. Presented by Sarah P. Monks. 



A fine specimen of Geratodus Forsteri, from Queensland. Pre- 

 sented by Dr. John Belisario, of Sydney, Australia, through Dr. 

 McQuillen. 



A Bottle-headed Dolphin, Coryphsena Suerii, caught five miles 

 off the coast of Atlantic City, N. J., Sep. 1, 1815. Presented by 

 W. R. Bncknell. 



An Angel Fish, Squatina Dumerili, from Lewes, Delaware. 

 Presented by A. Purvis. 



Two species of reptiles and four of fishes, from Chester Co. 

 Presented by Dr. H. Allen. 



Trichiurus lepturus, from the southeast coast. Presented by 

 John Krider. 



Spelerpes bilineata. Presented by Gen. Pleasanton. 



Bolesoma olmstedii, Bancocas Creek, N. J. Presented by Col. 

 T. M. Bryan. 



Two snakes from Fnng Chow, China. Presented by Wm. M. 



Capp. 



2[<>Uusks. Fifty-one species of marine shells, from the Atlantic 

 coast of Costa Bica; three species, from Aspinwall; three speci- 

 mens Ostrea virginica, from Gulf of Nicoya ; and a Helix' from 

 Genesee Co., N. Y. Presented by William M. Gabb. 



Thirty species of shells, from Acapulco, besides three other 

 collections of shells and bryozoans, from Alaska and other locali- 

 ties along the Pacific coast to Mexico. Presented by Dr. Wm. 

 H. Jones, U. S. N. 



Seventeen species of land shells from Australia, West Indies, 

 etc., presented by Thomas Bland; and also four additional 

 species, in exchange from the same. 



Three cuttle fishes, from China. Presented by Wm. M. Capp. 



Twenty-one species of shells, from Florida. Presented by W. 

 W. Calkins. 



Eighteen species of shells, from California, presented by Sarah 

 P. Monks; two species Bulimus and two of Thaumastes, from the 

 Rio Negro and the Amazon, presented by Prof. J. Orton ; Gonio- 

 basis potosiensis, from Missouri, presented by Mrs. Mary P. Harris ; 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 511 



and a small collection of shells, from Bermuda, presented by Mr. 

 Janney. 



Articulates. A case containing a fine collection, mainly of 

 lepidoptera, with a few neuroptera, from the coast ranges at 

 Rockingham Bay, northeast coast of Queensland, Australia. Pre- 

 sented by Dr. John Belisario, of Sydney, N. S. Wales, through Dr. 

 McQuillen. 



Many specimens of species of crustaceans, besides Carpilius 

 maculatus ; two species of barnacles ; a small collection of isopods 

 and insects. From various localities of the Pacific coast, and pre- 

 sented by Dr. Wm. H. Jones, U. S. N. 



A bottle of insects, from Ooromia, Persia. Presented by a 

 missionaiy. Rev. G. W. Coan, through Mr. D. D. Willard. 



Three vials with insects, from Nebraska. Presented by Lieut. 

 W. L. Capenter, U. S. A. 



Oeypoda rhombea; several spiders and centipeds ; several species 

 of ants ; and parasites from a monke} r , a field-mouse, a hawk, and 

 a beetle, from Old Harbor, Costa Rica. Presented by W. M. Gabb. 



Libinia canaliculata, Cape May, N. J., from Rev. R. B. Port ; 

 an Astacus, Chester Co., from Dr. H. Allen ; Epeira riparia, 

 Philadelphia, from Miss Withers ; a Mole-cricket, California, from 

 Miss Monks ; and a wasp's nest, Haddonfield, N. J., from Miss 

 Mary Kirby. 



Radiates and Protozoans. A collection of echinoderms, holo- 

 thurians, ophiurians, and star-fishes ; an actinia, a coral, a 

 gorgonia, and several species of acalephs ; from the Pacific coast. 

 Presented by Dr. W. H. Jones, U. S. N. 



Five species of corals, one star-fish, and five species of sponges, 

 from Bermuda. Presented by Mr. Janney. 



Eleven species of corals and an Echianthus rosaceus, from 

 Florida. Presented by W. W. Calkins. 



A collection of British sponges : Grantia compressa, Isodictya 

 varians, I. infundibuliformis, Chilina oculata, and Halichondria 

 panicea. Presented by the Liverpool Free Public Museum. 



Two species ophiurans and one other echinoderm, from Aspin- 

 wall, and a coral from the coast of Costa Rica. Presented by 

 Wm. M. Gabb. 



A fine specimen of Heterocentrotus mammillatus, from the 

 Pacific. Presented by J. H. Redfield. 




512 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Erechinus chloroticus, New Zealand. Presented by C. F. 



Parker. 



Fossils. A large collection of tertiary fossils, of St. Domingo, 



comprising 1340 specimens of mollusks, and 86 specimens of 23 

 species of corals. Presented by William M. Gabb. 



Several collections of fossils from the marl pits near Vincenttowh, 

 Pemberton, Ayrestown, and Glassboro, New Jersey, comprising a 

 multitude of specimens of vertebra?, and teeth of sharks of the 

 genera Lamna, Otodus, Carcharodon, Oxyrhina, and Galeocerdo ; 

 also teeth of Pristis, Myliobatis, and Enchodus ; the snouts of 

 Histiophorus and Coelorrhynchus ; in addition, fragments of 

 turtle shells, of Mosasaurus and other saurian bones, dermal 

 plates, bones and teeth of crocodiles, etc. Specimens also of 

 Belemnites, Ammonites, Ostrea, several gastropods, Spatangus, 

 etc. Presented by Col. T. M. Bryan. There were likewise pre- 

 sented by the same gentleman, some fossil fishes, mollusks, and 

 plants, from Colorado. 



A small collection of shark teeth and a cetacean rib, from 

 Ashley R., S. C. Presented by S. T. Abert, through Col. Bryan. 

 A collection of seventy-five fossils, from the vicinity of Lexing- 

 ton, Scott Co., Md., was presented by Dr. W. D. Hutchings. 



A collection of forty-four fossils, from California, was presented 

 by Sarah P. Monks. 



A collection of teeth and vertebras of sharks, from Ashley R., 

 S. C, and a collection of post-pliocene fossils, from the coast of 

 Cuba, were presented by Mr. John Ford. 



Other small collections and single specimens of fossils were 

 presented by Dr. S. C. De Besy, W. W. Jefferis, J. B. Dillingham, 

 Alfred G. Baker, John M. Hartman, Joseph P. Hazard, C. J. 

 Hardekopf, Joseph Krall and Dr. F. L. Gault. 



From the Otago Museum, Dunedin, N. Z., there was received 

 a collection of bones of Dinornis, in exchange. 



From the Museum of the Jardin des Plantes, Paris, there was 

 also received, in exchange, a collection of casts in plaster, of verte- 

 brate fossils. 



Plants. One hundred and eight3'-nine species of plants, collected 

 in the Sierra Nevada, California, by Lemmon, were presented by 

 Messrs. John II. Redfield, John S. Haines, and Thomas Meehan. 



A collection of Parry's plants of Wyoming and of Southern 

 Utah of 18T3-74 was presented by Wm. H. Dougherty. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 513 



A collection of plants, from Guadeloupe Island, off Lower Cali- 

 fornia, was presented by John H. Redfield and Wm. M. Canby. 



A collection of plants from Vera Cruz, was presented by Chas. 

 Mohr, of Mobile, Ala. ; another from California and Nevada, was 

 presented by Dr. J. W. Metcalf; and one of eleven species of algas, 

 of California, was presented by Miss Sarah P. Monks. 



Single botanical specimens were presented b} r Dr. Robert 

 Bridges, Botanelly & Co., G. Schrader, J. S. Lippincott, and Dr. 

 J. L. LeConte. 



Minerals. A meteorite, which fell Feb. 12, 1815, near Home- 

 stead, Iowa, was presented by C. W. Irish, Iowa City. 



A large and magnificent specimen of amethyst, from Thunder 

 Bay, Lake Superior. Presented by W. S. Bissel. 



Idocrase, Orange Co., N. Y. ; two arkansites, Magnet love, 

 Ark. ; martite, Digby Neck, N. Scotia ; apatite, Nassau ; pyrite, 

 Bannat ; and calcite, Cornwall. Presented by C. S. Bement. 



A large pebble of limpid quartz, from Siberia. Presented by 

 Joseph Jeanes. 



Melanosiderite, chesterlite, jefferisite, and halite, from Chester 

 and Delaware Co's. Presented by W. W. Jefferis. 



Native silver and argentite, argentite, and pyrargyrite, Guana- 

 juata, Mexico. Presented by Dr. A. B. Carothers, Saltillo, M. 



A small collection of minerals from Fritz's Island, near Read- 

 ing, Pa., and a specimen of samarskite, from Mitchell Co., N. C, 

 were presented by Joseph Willcox. 



Other minerals were presented as follows : 



Five specimens of cinnabar, St. John's Mine, Solano Co., Cal., 

 and lignite from Alaska, by Dr. Wm. H. Jones ; malachite, from 

 Australia, by Dr. J. Belisario ; stilbite on gneiss, Frankford, Pa., 

 by John Ford ; arkansite on quartz, by Dr. Beadle ; several iron 

 ores from York Co., Pa., and Essex Co., N. Y., by John M. Hart- 

 man; fossil wood, Cecil Co., Md., by J. Ryder; agate pebbles, 

 Texas, by Lieut. A. C. Mackley ; lignite, Costa Rica, by Wm. 

 M. Gabb; peat, New Jersey, by John Cooper; bog ore, Edg- 

 mont, Del. Co., by A. B. Mitchell ; limonite with impression of 

 recent snake skin, Carroll Co., Ya., by Mr. Huey through Dr. 

 James Darrach; opalized wood, Nebraska, by Swarthmore College; 

 and sulphur, California, by Miss Sarah P. Monks. 



Miscellaneous. Tapa cloth, Feejee Is., presented by Dr. John 




514 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Belisario ; and a collection of bows and arrows, from one of the 

 Pacific Isles, presented by Dr. Wm. H. Jones, U. S. X. 

 Respectfully submitted by 



Joseph Leidy, 

 Chairman of the Curators. 



REPORT OF RECORDER OF BIOLOGICAL AND 

 MICROSCOPICAL SECTION, 1875. 



In presenting to this Section the annual Report of the Recorder, 

 I am gratified to be able to make it a mere record of scientific 

 research actually accomplished ; and believe we have ample cause 

 for mutual felicitation in the fact, that no single meeting through- 

 out the 3 r ear has passed without its written or oral communica- 

 tion, illustrated in every instance save one by specimens of 

 microscopic work. 



At the first meeting in 1875, Dr. J. G. Hunt made a very inter- 

 esting communication upon the subject of Amplifiers for the 

 microscope, giving a history of the apparatus, and demonstrating 

 the mode of employment and special advantages. At the Febru- 

 ary meeting, Dr. J. C. Morris read his elaborate report upon 

 oV and gL objectives, full abstracts of which have been since re- 

 printed in the "Cincinnati Medical News," and in the "London 

 Monthly. Microscopical Journal." In March an instructive article 

 on "The misinterpretation of appearances under the microscope," 

 by Mr. Charles Stodder, of Boston, Mass., a correspondent of 

 the Section, was read and afterwards appeared in the columns 

 of the "Phila. Medical Times." At the next meeting, Dr. Carl 

 Seder produced an important paper on the " Photographic en- 

 largement of microscopic objects," illustrated hy numerous pho- 

 tographs taken with an ingenious camera of his own construction, 

 which he also displayed. In May, an exhaustive article on the 

 "Physiological action of hemlock and its alkaloids," was pre- 

 sented by Dr. H. C. Wood, for B. F. Lautenbach, M.D. ; and Dr. 

 J. G Hunt exhibited some of his exquisite preparations, of in- 

 jected intestinal villi of the rabbit, and Pacinian bodies from the 

 mesentery of the cat, giving minute directions for following his 

 method of manipulation. At the first meeting after the summer 

 vacation, Dr. Hunt showed some sections from the branch of a 

 pear tree affected with "black rot" or "fire blight" which gave 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 515 



rise to a discussion on parasitic disease ; in November, Dr. 

 Richardson read a paper on "Improved method of applying the 

 micro-spectroscopic test for blood stains," demonstrating its 

 application to a spot of blood only jj-^ of an inch in diameter; 

 and our present December gathering is marked by the valuable 

 article of Dr. Carl Seiler on "Microscopic Photography with 

 High powers," to which we have just listened with so much 

 interest. 



The greatest triumph of the year was of course the Annual 

 Exhibition of microscopes, microscopic specimens, and apparatus, 

 which was given in the Hall of the Academy on the 4th of Octo- 

 ber last. Under the chairmanship of Dr. J. L. LeConte, this dis- 

 play was eminently successful, and, being witnessed and appre- 

 ciated by a large audience of ladies and gentlemen, has doubtless 

 in some measure contributed to raise our parent Academy in 

 popular estimation. Indeed, I think that the obvious illustrations 

 under our microscopes at these Exhibitions, of every day uses to 

 which science is applied, constitute valuable means of convincing 

 the community at large that our labors, our objects, and our aims 

 in the study of the natural sciences, are practical and utilitarian ; 

 instead of being, as too many still believe, chiefly theoretical and 

 speculative. 



All of which is respectfully submitted. 



Jos. G. Richardson, Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE RECORDER OF THE 

 CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Recorder of the Conchological Section reports that during 

 the year ending Dec. 21st, a number of donations to the museum 

 have been received, all of which have been labelled and arranged. 

 For list of these see the Report of the Curators of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences. The marine shells of the Swift Collection, 

 which had been placed with Dr. 0. A. L. Morch, of Copenhagen, 

 for identification, have also been received, but, as there was no 

 room for them in the cases, they have not been unpacked. All 

 the alcoholic specimens of mollusks have been relabelled. 



For numerous additions to the Library see report of the Libra- 

 rian of the Academy. 




516 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



During the year papers have been accepted and published in 

 the Proceedings of the Academy aggregating 120 pages text and 

 24 plates, as follows : 



Wm. G. Binuey, 114 pages text and 21 plates. 

 James Lewis, 4 " " " 1 plate. 



T. A. Conrad, 1 page " " 1 " 



Wm. M. Gabb, 1 " " " 1 " 



By a resolution adopted at a special meeting of the Section held 

 April 27, last, three thousand dollars were subscribed to the 

 building-fund of the Academy, and this amount has been paid to 

 its Treasurer; and by another resolution, adopted at the last 

 meeting of the year, the sum of $500 was appropriated towards 

 defraying expenses for shell cases in the new museum building. 



The officers of the Section for 1876 are as follows : 



Director .... W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M.D. 



Vice-Director . . . Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Recorder . . . . S. Raymond Roberts. 



Secretary .... Rev. E. R. Beadle. 



Librarian and Conservator Edw. J. Nolan. M.D. 



Respectfully submitted by 



S. R. Roberts, Recorder. 



The election of Officers for 1876 was held in accordance with 

 the By-laws, with the following result : 



President . . . W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M.D 



Vice-Presidents . . Wm. S. Vaux, 



J. L. LeConte, M.D. 



Recording Secretary . Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Corresponding Secretary Edward D. Cope. 



Treasurer . . . Wm. C. Henszey. 



Librarian . . . Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Curators . . . Jos. Leidy, M.D., 



Wm. S. Vaux, 

 Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., 

 Chas. F. Parker. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 517 



Publication Committee . Jos. Leidy, M.D., 



Win. S. Vaux, 

 Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., 

 W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M.D., 

 Geo. H. Horn, M.D. 



Council . . . . R. S. Kenderdirie, M.D., 



Edw. S. Whelen, 

 Robt. Bridges, M.D., 

 Geo. H. Horn, M.D. 



Finance Committee . . Aubrey H. Smith, 



Wm. S. Yaux, 

 Robt. Bridges, M.D. 



ELECTIONS DURING 1875. 



MEMBERS. 



January 26. J. M. Patterson, Dr. Alex. Muckle, Wm. V. 

 McKean, Nicholas Lennig, Chas. A. Young, H. J. Fagen. 



February 23 J. Towers Pennypacker, Peter F. Rothennel, 



Chas. E. Hall. 



March 30. Mrs. Caroline G. Taitt, Miss Rebecca Gibson, Jacob 

 P. Jones, James S. Mason, Geo. Cochrane, U. S. N., Wm. H. Castle. 



April 27. Ellicott Fisher, J. S. Alexander. 



May 25. John M. McGrath, M.D., J. Warner Edwards, F. Odin 

 Horstman, Wm. G. Piatt, Miss Mary Jeanes, Miss Anna T. Jeanes, 

 Wm. Williamson, M.B., Charles Sumner Williamson. 



June 29. Isaac Hinckley. 



July 27 Howard A. Kelly, George Milliken, Jas. B. England. 



August 31. Wm. Wallace Goodwin, Adolph W. Miller, M.D., 

 Rev. H. C. McCook. 



September 28. Samuel G. Lewis, Eugene Santee, M.D., Stephen 

 Greene. 



October 16 William M. Davis, Jr., B. F. Stephenson, M.D., 



U.S.N. 



November 30. J. B. Knight, Elliston P. Morris, R. Shelmer- 

 dine McCombs, M.D., John C. Boyd, M.D., U. S. N., Eli K. Price. 



December 28. Wm. Stevenson, Beulah M. Rhoads, George 

 Wood, H. C. Humphrey, Joseph H. Roach. 




518 PROCEEDINGS OF ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES. 



CORRESPONDENTS. 



April 21. Col. T. M. Bryan, of Vincenttown, N. J. 



May 25. Dr. John Belisario, of S3'dney, N. S. "W. 



June 29. Prof. Luigi Bombecci Porta, of Bologna; Prof. Paolo 

 Mantovani, of Rome. 



October 26. Prof. Karl A. Zittel, of Munich ; Prof. Wilhelm C. 

 H. Peters, of Berlin. 



November 30. Prof. William Hemy Flower, F.R.S ,of London, 

 Dr. Albert Giinther, of London; Prof. St. George Mivart, F.R.S.. 

 of London; N. S. Maskelyne, F.R.S., of London; Prof. George 

 Rollcston, F.R.S., of Oxford, England. 




CORRESPONDENCE. 519 



CORRESPONDENCE OF THE ACADEMY. 



For 18*75. 



January. N. N. Bruyn, with proposals for exchange of specimens. 

 Le Secretaire- Archiviste de la Societe d' Agriculture, d'Histoire Natnrellc 

 et des Arts utiles de Lyons, acknowledging receipt of publications. 



G. M. Barnes, on behalf of the San Diego, Cal., Society of Natural History. 



February. Die Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Berne, acknowledging 

 receipt of publications. 



Miss M. C. Montfort, desiring exchange of specimens. 



Die Sckweizerische Gesellschaft flir die gesammten Naturwissenschaften, 

 Bern, acknowledging receipt of, and transmitting publications. 



University of the State of New York; 



Die Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Zurich ; Societe des Sciences Na- 

 turelles de Neucbatel ; severally acknowledging receipt of publications. 



Gesellschaft zur Beforderung der gesammten naturwissenschaften in Mar- 

 burg ; 



Die Kaiserliche Akademie der Wisseuschaften, Wien; 



La Societe des Sciences de Fiulands ; all transmitting publications. 



March. F. H. Pipes, with information in regard to a mastodon. 

 Alex. Wilcocks, acknowledging receipt of notice of election as member of 

 a committee. 



A. J. Siler, acknowledging election as correspondent. 



Dr. F. Fayrer, acknowledging receipt of notice of election as correspondent. 



Literary and Philosophical Society of Liverpool ; 



Bergens Museum, Norway ; 



Linnean Society, Loudon ; severally acknowledging receipt of publications. 



April. J. L. Lyons, in regard to a rattlesnake. 



W. W. Holleubush, acknowledging receipt of notice of election as corre- 

 spondent. 



Directeur du Jardin Imperial de Botanique, St. Petersburg, with publi- 

 cations. 



Die Gesselschaft der naturforschende Freunde zu Berlin ; 



Nassauischen Yereins flir Naturkunde, Wiesbaden ; 



Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences ; 



Lyceum of Natural History of New York ; 



Smithsonian Institution, Washington ; 



Essex Institute, Salem ; severally acknowledging receipt of publications. 




520 CORRESPONDENCE. 



May. J. W. Dawson, in regard to publications. 



Prof. F. V. Hayden, in relation to publications of Geological Survey of 

 the Territories. 



Col. T. M. Bryan and M. C. Cook, severally acknowledging receipt of 

 notice of election as correspondents. 



Asiatic Society of Japan, with publications. 



Konigl. Bohmische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften in Prag ; 



Die Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Danzig ; 



Yale College ; severally acknowledging receipt of publications. 



A. T. Goshorn, Director of the Centennial Commission, inclosing letter 

 from Thos. J. Wright. 



June. J. K. Hoyt, in relation to Helminthophaga Lawrencii, Herr. 



Cyrus Thomas, in relation to price of Proceedings. 



Wm. M. Wilson, with resignation. 



Leeds Philosophical and Literary Society ; 



Royal Geographical Society of London ; severally acknowledging receipt 

 of publications. 



Det Kongelige norske Yidenskabers-Selskab i Throndhjem ; 



Academie Royale des Sciences, des Lettres et des Beaux-Arts de Belgique ; 



Die Kaiserliche Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Wien; severally acknow- 

 ledging receipt of, and accompanying publications. 



K. k. zoologisch-botanishe Gesellschaft, Wien ; 



Die Pollichia ; severally with publications. 



A. Moret, from La Ronce, France, with reference to a prize essay on Moral 

 and Political Science. 



July.Y. P. Carpenter, in relation to facilities for study of the Chitonidae. 

 Der Verein flir Naturw. Unterhaltung im Hamburg, with publications. 

 Boston Society of Natural History; 

 Literary and Philosophical Society of Liverpool; 

 Essex Institute. Salem ; 

 Smithsonian Institution, Washington ; 



Royal Society of Tasmania ; severally acknowledging receipt of publica- 

 tions. 



August. (I. Moret, in explanation of prize essay. 



<\ \Y. Trish, accompanying a piece of the Iowa meteorite. 



Edw. Berthoud, with essay. 



Statistical Society of London, acknowledging receipt of publications. 



September. Linnean Society, London, acknowledging receipt of publica- 

 tions. 



Masonic Academy, Milton, Florida, desiring publications. 



Messrs. Porter and Coates, Philadelphia, requesting information about the 



Academy. 




CORRESPONDENCE. 521 



October. Belfast Naturalists' Field Club, with publications. 

 Beoj. V. Marsh, with donations to museum. 



November. Wm. S. Schofield, with request for title conferred on members. 



Saturday Evening Post, with request for cut of new building. 



University Library, Cambridge ; 



Leeds Philosophical and Literary Society ; severally acknowledging re- 

 ceipt of publications. 



Die Naturforschende Gesellschaft zu Halle ; 



Der Zoologisch-Mineralogische Vereiu zu Regensburg ; severally with 

 publications. 



December. K. Zittel, of Munich, and 



W. Peters, acknowledging election as correspondent of the Academy. 



Societa Adriatica di Scienze Naturali in Trieste ; 



Konigliche Universitats Bibliothek zu Wurtzburg ; 



K. Universitats und Landes-Bibliothek, Strassburg ; 



Smithsonian Institution, Washington ; 



Societe Hollandaise des Sciences a Harlem ; 



Yale College, New Haven ; severally acknowledging receipt of publica- 

 tions. 



Die Bibliothek der k. Bayerischen Akademie der Wissenschaften, Mlinchen, 

 acknowledging receipt of, and transmitting publications. 



Directeur du Jardin Imperial de Botanique, St. Petersburg ; 



L' Inst. Royale Meteorologique des Pays-bas a Utrecht ; 



K. Universitatsbibliothek, Wurtzburg ; 



Dorpater Natur. Gesellschaft ; severally with publications. 



Which is respectfully submitted by 



E. D. COPE, 



Corresponding Secretary. 



34 




522 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY 1875. 



Abert, J. J. Report in reference to the Canal to connect the Chesapeake 



and Ohio Canal with the City of Baltimore. 1838. Washington. 



From the Engineer Department. 

 Adams's Contribution to Conchology, Nos. 1, 3-7. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Allen, Harrison. Studies in the Facial Region. Philadelphia. The Author. 

 Allen, J. A. Notes on the Mammals of portions of Kansas, Colorado, 



Wyoming, and Utah. Henry Wheatland. 

 Annual Report (Twentieth) of the Board of Directors of the Lehigh Valley 



Railroad Company to the Stockholders, January 19, 1875. The 



Company. 

 Annual Report of the Librarian of Congress, Washington, 1874. The Author. 

 Atkinson, John. A Compendium of the Ornithology of Great Britain, with 



a reference to the Anatomy and Physiology of Birds. London. S. 



S. Haldeman. 

 Audebert's Singes et Makis. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Aughey, Prof. Samuel. Catalogue of the Flora of Nebraska, published by 



the University of Nebraska. Lincoln, 1875. Jos. Willcox. 

 Baird, S. F. United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries. Part II. 



Report of the Commissioner for 1872 and 1873. Washington. The 



Author. 

 Balfour, Prof. The Botanist's Companion. Edinburgh. Purchased. 

 Bancroft, H. H. The Native Races of the Pacific States. Yol II. Civilized 



Nations. Yol. III. Myths and Language. Yol. IY. Antiquities. 



New York. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Barcena, Mariano. Datos por el Estudio de la Rocas Mesozoicas de Mexico. 



Mexico, 1875. The Author. 

 Descripcion de un Crustacea Fosil del genero Spheroma. Mexico, 1875. 



The Author. 

 Bastiat, Frederick. Essays on Political Economy. London. 12mo. Cobden 



Club. 

 Bate & Westwood's History of British Sessile-Eyed Crustacea, pp. 64-400, 



Rathmell Wilson. 

 Becker, Bernard H. Scientific London. New York. Purchased. 

 Becker, Lothar. Der Bauerntabak eine Pflauze der Alten Welt. The 



Author. 

 Bedriaga, Jacques v. Ueber die Entstehung der Farben bei den Eidechsen. 



Jena, 1*74. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Bentham, George. Handbook of the British Flora. 2 vols. London, 1865. 



Purchased. 

 Bentley, Robt. A Manual of Botany. 1873. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Bergh, Dr. Rud. Reisin im Archipel der Philippinen von Dr. C. Semper. 



2es Theil Wissenschaftliche Resultate. 2es Band, Malacologische 



Untersuchungen. IX Heft. Weisbaden, 1875. Wilson Fund. 

 Berkley, Rev. M. J. Outlines of British Fungology. 1860. I. Y. William- 

 son Fund. 

 Beraardi's Galatea et Fischeria. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Beraardi's Monographic du Genre Conus. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Betta and Martinati's Molluschi di Yeuete. Rathmell Wilson. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 523 



Binney's Conchological Writings of Say. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Binuey, W. G. Notes on American Land Shells. Vol. II., Part III. Bur- 

 lington, N. J. G. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Bischoff's Lepodosiren paradoxa, 1840. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Bland, Thos. Notes on certain Terrestrial Mollusks, with Descriptions of 



New Species. The Author. 

 Bleeker, P. Atlas Ichthyologique des Indes Orientales Neerlandaises. 



Liv. 27. Amsterdam. Wilson Fund. 

 Boddaert's Tables des Planches Enluminees. Folio Manuscript. Rathmell 



Wilson. 

 Boeck, Prof. Dr. W. Erfaringer om Syphilis. 8vo. Christiania. The 



Author. 

 Undersgolser Angaaende Syphilis. 4to. Christiania. The Author. 

 Boies, A. H. Catalogue of the Birds ascertained to occur in Southern 



Michigan, 1875. The Author. 

 Boisduval et Guenee, MM. Suites a Buffon. Insectes Lepidopteres. 



Tome 1. Texte and Planches, 1 Liv. 1874. Wilson Fund. 

 Bolton, H. C. Proceedings of the Centennial of Chemistry. Philadelphia, 



1875. H. C. Bolton. 

 Bonney's Geology. 1874. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Bourguignat, M. J. R. Monographie du nouveau genre francaise Montes- 



sieria. Wilson Library. 

 Molluscpaes uoveaux litigieux ou peu conuus. 5-9 Fasc. Rathmell 



Wilson. 

 Bowden, Rev. J. The Naturalist in Norway. London. Purchased. 

 Bowerbank, J. S. A Monograph of the British Spongida?. Vol III. Ray 



Society Vol. for 1874. Wilson Fund. 

 Brewster, William. Some Observations on the Birds of Ritchie County, 



West Virginia. The Author. 

 British Encyclopaedia, Ninth Edition. Vols. 1 and 2. Purchased. 

 Broadhead, G. C. Report of the Geological Survey of the State of Missouri, 



including the field work of 1873-74, G. C. Broadhead, State Geologist. 



The Survey. 

 Broca, Paul. Revue d' Anthropologic publiee sous la direction de M. Paul 



Broca. Tome 3me. The Editor. 

 Broun, Dr. H. G. Klassen und Ordnungen des Their-Reiches. 6er Band. 



V. Abth. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 Lief. Leipzig, 1874-5. Wilson Fund. 

 Brot, M. A. Description du Nouvelles especes de Melaines. Rathmell 



Wilson. 

 Brlihl, Carl Bernhard. Zootomie aller Thierklassen fur Lernende nach 



Autopsien. Atlas, Lief I., II. and III. Wien, 1874. Purchased. 

 Brunton, T. Lauder, and J. Fayrer. On the Nature and Physiological Action 



of the Poison of Naja tripudians and other Indian venomous snakes. 



Parts 1, 2, 3. Dr. Fayrer. 

 Brush, George J. Manual of Determinative Mineralogy. New York. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Brusina, Spiridion. Fossile Binnen Mollusken aus Dalmatien Kroatien und 



Slavonien. Augram. The Author. 

 Buckland, Frank. Log book of a Fisherman and Zoologist. 8vo. London, 



1875. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Buckley, S. B. First Annual Report of the Geological and Agricultural 



Survey of Texas. Houston, 1874. The Author. 

 Campana, Dr. Recherches d'Anatomie, de Pbysiologie et d'Orgauogenie 



pour la determination de Lois de la Genese et de PEvolution des Es- 

 peces Animales. Paris, 1875. I. V. Williamson Fund. 




524 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Cams, J. V., and C. E. A. Gerstaicker. Handbuch der Zoologio. ler Band. 



II. Halfte. Purchased. 

 Catalogue of Books added to the Library of Congress, 1872. The Librarian. 

 Catalogue of Plants collected in the years 1871-2-3, with descriptions of 



new species. U. S. Geol. Surv. of Ter. Dep. of Interior. 

 Cazellus, Dr. M. E. Outlines of tbe Evolution Philosophy. New York. 



Purchased. 

 Census of the Madras Presidency. Vols. I. and II. 

 Census of the Bombay Presidency. Vols. I. aud II. Madras and Bombay, 



1874-5. The Government of India. 

 Circulars of Information of the Bureau of Education. Nos. 1-6, 1875. 



"Washington. Department of Interior. 

 (Jlaparede and Lachmann's Infusores and Rhizopods. 2 vols. 4to. Rath- 



mell Wilson. 

 Clark, W. S. Observations on the Phenomena of Plant Life. Boston. 



The Author. 

 Clift, Win. Notice on the Megatherium brought from Buenos Ayres by 



Woodbine Parish. London. Prof. Haldeman. 

 Cooke, G. H. Annual Report of the State Geologist of New Jersey. 1874. 

 Cooke, Josiah P., Jr. Melanosiderite, etc. The Author. 

 Cooke, M. C. Fungi, their Nature and Uses. Edited by Rev. M. J. Berke- 

 ley. New York. Purchased. 

 Same. The Author. 

 Cope, E. D. Consciousness in Evolution. Philadelphia, 1875. The Author. 

 Department of Interior, Report of United States Geological Survey of 

 Territories. F. V. Haydeu. Vol. II. The Vertebrata of the Cre- 

 taceous Formations of the West. Washington, 1875. The Author. 

 On the Cretaceous and Tertiary Rcptilia and Fishes. November, 1870. 

 On Three extinct Astaci from the Fresh-water, Territory of Idaho. 



December 16, 1870. 

 On some species of Pythouomorpha from the Cretaceous Beds of Kansas 



and New Mexico. December 18, 1870. 

 Note of some Cretaceous Vertebrata in the State Agricultural College 



of Kansas. October 20, 1871. 

 On Bathmodon, an extinct Genus of Ungulates. January, 1872. 

 Third account of New Vertebrata from Bridger P^ocene of Wyoming 



Valley, 1872. 

 On some Eocene Mammals, obtained by Hayden's Geological Survey of 



1872-73. 

 On two new Perissodactyles from the Bridger Eocene, 1871. 

 The extinct Vertebrata of North Carolina. The Author. 

 On some new Fossil Ungulata. The Author. 

 Report on the Vertebrate Palaeontology of Colorado. Washington. 



The Author. 

 Synopsis of the Vertebrata of the Miocene of Cumberland County, N. J. 



The Author. 

 Systematic Catalogue of the Vertebrata of the Eocene of New Mexico, 

 collected in 1874. The Author. 

 Coues, Elliott. Abstract of Results of a Study of the Genera Geomys and 

 Thomomys. Washington. The Author. 

 Birds of the Northwest. Washington. Department of Interior. 

 Department of Interior, United States Geological Survey of the Terri- 

 tories. Birds of the Northwest : A Handbook of the Ornithology of 

 the region drained by the Missouri River aud its tributaries. Wash- 

 ington. The Department of the Interior. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 525 



A List of the Birds of New England. Henry Wheatland. 



United States Northern Boundary Commission, Natural History, No. 1. 



On the Muridce. The Author. 

 Cos, E. T. Sixth Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Indiana, 



made during the year 1874. Indianapolis, 1875. The Author. 

 Crepin, Franqois. Description de quelques plantes fossiles de l'Etage des 



Psammites du Condroz. Bruxelles. The Author. 

 Croll, James. Climate and Time in their Geological Belations. London, 



1875. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Dana, J. D. Appendixes to Dana's Mineralogy, I., II. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Manual of Geology : treating of the principles of the science with special 



reference to American Geological History. Second Edition. Pur- 

 chased. 

 Notice of the Chemical and Geological Essays of S. S. Hunt. The 



Author. 

 On Dr. Koch's Evidence with regard to the Contemporaneity of Man 



and the Mastodon in Missouri. The Author. 

 On Serpentine Pseudomorphs and other kinds, from the Tilly Foster 



Iron Mine, Putnam County, New York. The Author. 

 Zoophytes. 1838-42. Bathmell Wilson. 

 Darwin, Charles. Insectivorous Plants. New York, 1875. I. Y. William- 

 son Fund. 

 Davies, Thomas. The Preparation and Mounting of Microscopic Objects. 



Second Edition. London. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 De Buch's Petrifications recueillies en Amerique. 1839. Bathmell Wilson. 

 De Borre, A. P. de. Notes sur des Empreintes d'Insectes fossiles decouverts 



dans les Schistes Houillers des Environs de Mons. The Author. 

 De Quatrefages, A. Natural History. New York. Purchased. 

 De Saussure, Henri, et Julius Sichel. Catalogus specierum generis Scolia 



8vo. Geneva. The Authors. 

 De Saussure, Henri. Notice Biographique sur Edward Reni Claparede. 



Geneva. The Author. 

 Desor, E. et L. Favre. Le Bel Age du Bronze Lacustre en Suisse. Paris, 



1874. Purchased. 

 Dodel, Arnold. Die Neuere Schopfungsgeschichte nach dem gegenwartigen 



Stande der Naturwissenschaften. Leipzig. Purchased. 

 Dorhu, Anton. Der Ursprung der Wirbelthiere und das Princip des Func- 



tionswechsels. Geneologische Skizzen. Leipzig. Purchased. 

 Drouet's Mollusques Marines des Isles Acores. Paris, 1858. Rathmell 



Wilson. 

 Nayades de la France, 1852-57. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Dumeril et Bibron. Suites a Buffon. Reptiles Planches. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Dunbar, Jas. Essays on the History of Mankind. Second Edition. 8vo. 



London. Prof. Haldeman. 

 Dunker's Mollusca Japonica. 18G1. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Dunker and Zittel. Paloeontographica. 20er Band. . 8e Lief. 2e Abth. 



6e Lief. 21er Band. 6er Lief. 22er Band. 6e Lief. Cassel. Wil- 

 son Fund. 

 Dupuy's Mollusques du Gers. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Drysdale, Dr. John. The Protoplasmic Theory of Life. London, 1874. 



I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Dybowsky's Krebse aus dem Gruppe der Grammariden. Published by the 



Entomological Society of Russia. The Society. 

 Edinburgh Encyclopedia. American Edition. 21 vols. Howard Potts. 




526 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Elsberg, Louis. Regeneration, or the preservation of Organic Molecules. 



Salem, 1874. The Author. 

 Eyton, T. C. Osteologia Avium ; or a Sketch of the Osteology of Birds. 



2 vols, and Supplement I., II. Nos. 1, 2, 3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Fayrer, J. The Royal Tiger of Bengal, his Life and Death. London, 1875. 



The Author. 

 Ferussac. Tableaux Systematiques des Auimaux Mollusques. Paris. 



Rathmell Wilson. 

 Finsch, Dr. O. Die Vogel Ost-Afrikas. Leipzig, 1870. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Fiske, John. Outlines of Cosmic Philosophy. 2 vols. Boston, 1875. I. 



V. Williamson Fund. 

 Forsyth, James W. and F. D. Grant. Report of an Expedition up the Yel- 

 lowstone River, made in 1875. War Department. 

 Francis, Dr. Samuel. Curious Facts concerning Man and Nature. Part 



Second. The Author. 

 Frazer, Persifor, Jr. Tables for the determination of Minerals, translated 



from the German of Weisbach. The Translator. 

 Friedlander's Catalogue. Berlin, 1874. The Publishers. 

 Friedmann, Alexander. Officieller Bericht liber das Marine wessen auf der 



Weltausstellung, 1873. 8vo. Vienna. The Author. 

 Fries' Lichenes Arctoi Europa Groenlandiaque hactenus cogniti. Rathmell 



Wilson. 

 Fromentel, E. de. Etudes sur les Microzoaires, Fasc. 2. Paris. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Fiirstenberg's Kratzmilben, 1861. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Galton, Francis. Englishmen of Science ; their Nature and Nurture. New 



York. Purchased. 

 Gannett, Henry. List of Elevations principally in that portion of the United 



States west of the Mississippi River. Third Edition. Washington. 



Department of Interior. 

 Garlick, Theodatus. A Treatise on the Artificial Propagation of Fish. 



New York. Purchased. 

 Garman, S. W. Description of a new species of North American Serpent. 



The Author. 

 Ou the Skates (Rajae) of the Eastern Coast of the United States. The 



Author. 

 Gassies' Mollusques de l'Agenais. R. Wilson. 

 Gaultierius' Index Testarum, 1742. R. Wilson. 

 Gegenbaur, Carl. Morphologisches Jahrbuch. ler Band, ler Heft. Leipzig. 



Purchased. 

 Gervais, Paul. Zoologie. Tome III. No. 5. Paris, 1874. Purchased. 

 Giebel, Dr. C. G. Thesaurus Ornithologia. 4er Halbband. Leipzig, 1875. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Glover, Townsend. Manuscript Notes from my Journal, or Illustrations of 



Insects, Native and Foreign. Diptera, or two-winged Flies. Wash- 

 ington. D. C, 1874. The Author. 

 Goette, Dr. Alexander. Die Entwickelungsgeschichte der Unke. 1 vol. 8vo. 



and atlas. Purchased. 

 Gordon, George. The Pinetum. Second Edition. London. Purchased. 

 Gould, J. Monograph of Toucans. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Gras' Mollusques de ITsere. Rathmell AVilson. 

 Gray, Asa. Revision of the Genus Symphoricarpus. The Author. 

 Gray, George Robert. Hand-List of Genera and Species of Birds, dis- 

 tinguishing those contained in the British Museum. Part III. Lou- 

 don, 1871. I. V. Williamson Fund. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 527 



Gray, J. E. Obituary notice of. 



List of the Books, Memoirs, and Miscellaneous Papers by Dr. John 



Bdw. Gray. The Author. 

 Grube's Ausflug nach Triest unci dem Quarnero. Eathmell Wilson. 

 Guide to Belfast and the adjacent Counties. Prepared by the Belfast Na- 

 turalists' Field Club. The Society. 

 Gunther, Dr. Albert. Catalogue of the Acanthopterygian Fishes in the 



Collection of the British Museum. Vol. 3. London, 1871. I. V. 



"Williamson Fund. 

 Haldeman's Univalve Mollusca. Nos. 1-8. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Hauley, Sylvanus. Conchologia Indica. Edited by Sylvanus Hanley and 



William Theobold. Part 7. Wilson Fund. 

 Hart, John. A description of the Skeleton of the Fossil Deer of Ireland. 



Second Edition. Dublin. Prof. Haldemau. 

 Hartt, Ch. Fred, and R. Rathbun. On the Devonian Trilobites and Mol- 



lusks of Ere, Province of Para, Brazil. The Authors. 

 Hartt, Ch. Fred. Notes on the Manufacture of Pottery among Savage 



Races. The Author. 

 Hartwig, G. The Aerial World. New York. Purchased. 

 Hayden, F. Y. Annual Report of the United States Geological Survey of 



the Territories, embracing Colorado, being a report of progress of 



the Exploration for the year 1873. Department of Interior. 

 Henshaw, H. W. Annotated List of Birds of Utah. Salem, 1874 The 



Author. 

 Hentz, N. M. Occasional Papers of the Boston Society of Natural History. 



II. Hentz's Spiders of the United States. 1875. The Society. 

 Hermann, Ernst. Das Central-Nerven System von Hirudo medicinalis. Mun- 



chen, 1875. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Hermannsen's Iudicis Generarum Malacozoorum Supplementa et Corrigenda. 



1852. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Herrick, Harold. A Partial Catalogue of the Birds of Grand Menan. 



Henry Wheatland. 

 Hewitson, Win. C. Exotic ButterOies. Parts 89-96. Purchased. 

 Hitchcock, C. H. The Geology of New Hampshire. C. H. Hitchcock, State 



Geologist, and J. H. Huntington, Principal Assistant. Yol. I. Con- 

 cord. The Survey. 

 Hooker, J. D. The Flora of British India. Parts I., II. and III. London, 



1872-4. Secretary of State, India. 

 Hugo, le Cte. Leopold. La Question de l'Ecpuidomoide et des Cristalloides 



geometrique. The Author. 

 Hume, Allen. Nests and Eggs of Indian Birds. Rough Draft. Parts II. 



and III. Calcutta. The Author. 

 Hyatt, Alpheus. The Jurassic and Cretaceous Ammonites collected in 



South America by Prof. James Orton. 

 Biological Relations to the Jurassic Ammonites. 

 Genetic Relations of the Angulatidaj. 

 Remarks on the Genera of Ammonites. The Author. 

 International Exhibition, 1876. List of Principal Useful or Injurious Mam- 

 mals. Edw. D. Cope. 

 Irish, C. W. An account of the Detonating Meteor of February 12, 1875. 



Iowa City. The Author. 

 Jaeger, Dr. Gustav. In Sachen Darwin's insbesondere contra Wigand. 



Stuttgart. Purchased. 

 James, U. P. Catalogue of Lower Silurian Fossils of the Cincinnati Group. 



The Author. 




528 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Jan, M. le Prof. Iconographie generale des Ophidiens. 46me Livr. No- 

 vember, 1874. Wilson Fund. 

 Jay's Catalogue of Shells. Fourth Edition. 1859. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Johnson's New Illustrated Universal Cyclopaedia. Vol. 1. New York. 



Purchased. 

 Jones, W. A. Report upon the Reconnoissance of Northwestern Wyoming, 



including Yellowstone National Park, made in the summer of 1873. 



With Appendix. Washington, 1875. War Department. 

 Just, Dr. Leopold. Botanische Jahresbericht. Herausgegeben von Dr. Leo- 

 pold Just, ler Jahrg (1873) ler and 2er Halbband. Berlin, 1874. 



Purchased. 

 Kenngott's Ueber die Meteoriten, 1863. Rathmell Wilson. 



Uebersicht der resultate Mineralogischer Forschungen im Jahren 1856- 



7, 8-9-60. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Kjerulf, Theodore. Om Skuringsmaarker, Glacial-formationen, Terrasser og 



Strandlinier samt om grundfjeldets og sparagmit fjeldets msegtighed 



i Norge. Christiania, 1873. R. Norway Acad, of Science. 

 Klinggraff, Dr. C. J. v. Zur Pflangengeographie des nordlichen und Ark- 



tischen Europas. Marienwerder, 1875. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Kiener's Cocpuilles Vivants. Plates of Turbo and Trochus, plates and text 



of Turritella, Scalaria, Solarium Rotella, Delphinula, Phasianella, 



Tornatella, Pyramidella, and Thracia. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Koch, Dr. L. Aegyptische und Abyssinischen Arachniden gesammelt von 



Herr C. Jickeli. Nurnberg. Purchased. 

 Kock, Dr. G. von. Anatomie der Orgelkoralle' (Tubipora Hemprichii, 



Ehrbg.) Jena, 1874. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Koldeway, Captain. The German Arctic Expedition of 1869-70. London, 



1874. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Kolliker, Albert. Die Pennatulide umbellula und zwei neue typen der 



Alcyonarien. Wurzburg. Physico-Medical Society. 

 Krause, Johann Heinrich. Pyrgoteles oder die edlen Steine der Alten im 



Bereiche der Natur und der bildenden Kunst. Halle. Jos. Jeanes 



through Dr. Leidy. 

 Krenner, Dr. Jos. Alex. Die Eishohle von Dobschau. 4to. Budapest. 



Hungarian Nat. Hist. Soc. 

 Krohn's Pteropoden und Heteropoden. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Kummer, Paul. Der Fiihrer in die Lebermoose und der Gefiisskrypto- 



gamen. Berlin. Purchased. 

 Kunth, C. S. Enumeratio Plantarum. Vol. V. Stuttgart. Wilson 



Fund. 

 Kuster, H. C. Systematisches Conchylien-Cabinet von Martini und 



Chemnitz. ler Band, 80 Heft ; Hler Band, Heft 34, 36, 40 ; IVer 



Band, 14, 15, 16, 17 ; IXer Band, 28, 30 Heft. Wilson Fund. 

 Lacordaire et Chapuis' Insectes Coleopteres. Collection des Suites a 



Buffon. Tome XL Planches 12 Livr. Paris, 1875. Wilson Fund. 

 La Menagerie du Museum National. 1-8 Livr. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Lea, Isaac. Description of New Unio. List of Publications, etc. Four 



Pamphlets. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Observations on the Genus Unio. Vol. VIII. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Index to Vol. I.-XIII. Observation on the Genus Unio. Vol. III. 



The Author. 

 Ledebour, Dr. Carlo Fredrico a. Flora Rossica sive Enumeratio Plantarum 



in Totius Imperii Rossici. 4 vols. 8vo. Stuttgartiae. Purchased. 

 Lesley. (J. 1'. Second Geological Survey of Pennsylvania, 1874. B. & J. 



II arrisburg. The Survey. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 529 



Lesquereux, Leo. Cretaceous Flora. Report of the U. S. Geological 



Survey of the Territories. F. V. Harden, U. S. Geologist, iu charge. 



Vol. VI. Washington . F. V. Hayden. 

 Contributions to the Fossil Flora of the Western Territories. Part I. 



Cretaceous Flora. Department of Interior. 

 A Review of the Fossil Flora of North America. The Author. 

 Leuckart's Bericht, 1858-65. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Levaillant's Oiseaux d'Afrique. 4 vols. Folio. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Lewis, T. R., and D. D. Cunningham. A Report of Microscopical and 



Physiological Researches into the Nature of the Agent or Agents 



producing Cholera. Second Series. Calcutta. The Authors. 

 Lewis, T. R. The Pathological Significance of Nematode Haematozoa. 



Calcutta, 1874. The Author. 

 Lielegg, Andreas. Pie Geologischen Verhaltnisse Niederosterreichs. Wien, 



1875. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Linder, M. 0. Des Depots lacustres du Vallon de Saucats. Bordeaux, 1872. 



The Author. 

 Lithograph of the Island of Julia, with description. Framed. Rev. Dr. 



Jas. Saul. 

 Lockyer, J. Norman. The Spectroscope and its Application. London, 



1873. Purchased. 

 Lubbock, Sir John. On British Wild Flowers considered in relation to In- 

 sects. London. Purchased. 

 On the Origin and Metamorphosis of Insects. Purchased. 

 Ludlow, W. Report of a Reconnaissance of the Black Hills of Dakota, 



made in the summer of 1874. Washington, 1875. Engineer Dep., 



U. S. A. 

 Ludwig, Carl. Beitraege znr Anatomie und Physiologie als festgabe Carl 



Ludwig von Seinen Schuelern. ler and 2er Heft. Leipzig, 1875. 



Wilson Fund. 

 Macedo, Joaquin Manoal de. Notions de Chorographie du Bresil. Traduc- 

 tion de J. F. Halbout. Leipzig. The Translator. 

 Malherbe's Monographie des Picides. 4 vols. Folio. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Mann, B. Pickman. Description of a Monstrous Female Imago of Anisop- 



teryx pomentaria, with remarks on the pupa. The Author. 

 Explanation of the Corrigenda to a communication in these Proc, Vol. 



XV. Auisopteryx vernata, distinguished from A. pomentaria. The 



Author. 

 Marschall, Agusto de. Nomenclator Zoologicus. Vindobonoe, 1873. 



Purchased. 

 Marsh, 0. C. New Order of Eocene Mammals, and Notice of New Tertiary 



Mammals. The Author. 

 On the Odontornithes, or Birds with Teeth. The Author. 

 McQuillen, Dr. J. H. A. case of Oral Surgery. The Author. 

 Memoirs of John Lewis Russel and Henry Coit. Henry Wheatland. 

 MSmoires sur le Canada, depuis 1749 jusqu'a 1760. Quebec. The 



Author. 

 Menem's Beytriige znr besondern Geschichte der Vogel. ler Heft. 1784. 



Rathmell Wilson. 

 Meinicke, Prof. Dr. Carl E. Die Inseln des Stillen Oceans, ler Theil, 



Melanesien und Neusceland. Leipzig, 1875. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Michaud's Complement des Mollusques de Draparnaud. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Middendorff, Dr. A. v. Siberische Reise. Band IV., Theil 2. 2e Lief. 



St. Petersburg. Imp. Acad, of St. Petersburg. 




530 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Milne Edwards, H. Legons sur la Physiologie et l'Anatomie comparee de 

 l'Homrae et des Animaux. Tome lime, Ire Partie. Paris. Wilson 

 Fund. 

 H. and Alphonse. Recherches pour servir a l'Histoire naturelle des 

 Mammifers. 2 vols. Paris, 1868-1874. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Mivart, St. G. Lessons in Elementary Anatomy. London. Purchased. 



The Common Frog. London, 1874. Purchased. 

 Mohl, Prof. H. Mikromineralogische Mittheilungen. Die Basalte der 

 Tauhen Alb. Stutgartt, 1874. 

 Der Scheidsberg bei Remagen am Rhein. 

 Die Basalte der Preussichen Oberlausitz. 

 Die siidwestlichen Ausliiufer des Vogelsgebirges. 

 Mikroscopische Untersuchung eineger Basalte Badens. 

 Ueber der Mineralogische Constitution und Eintheiluug der Phonolithe. 

 Kleine Beitrage zum Vorkommen des Tridymets, Breislakits und 



Sodaliths. 

 Die Buhl bei Weimar in der N'ahre von Kassel. 

 Zusammenstellung Mikrokopische Untersuchung und Beschreibung 



einer Sammlung typischer Basalte. 

 Die Nordlichsten Phonolithdurchbriiche der Rhbn. 4to. Halle. 

 Die Basalte und Phonolithe Sachens. 



Mikroskopisch Untersucht und Veschreiben. 4to. Dresden. 

 Mommsen's Griechische Jahreszeiten. Birds of Greece. Heft II. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Morelet, Arthur. Series Conchyliologiques. 4me Livr. Paris, 1875. 



Wilson Fund. 

 Moulins, Charles Des. Fragments Zoologiques. Nos. I.-IV. Bordeaux, 

 1872. 

 Notice Necrologique sur M. Elie Durand. Bordeaux, 1873. The 

 Author. 

 Mudie, Robert. Domesticated Animals, popularly considered. Winchester. 



Purchased. 

 Mtiller, Wilhelm. Ueber das Urogenital system des Amphioxus und der 



Cyclostomen. Jena. Purchased. 

 Murie, James. On the Anatomy of a Fin Whale. Prof. Haldeman. 

 Murray, Andrew. The Geographical Distribution of Mammals. London. 



Purchased. 

 Nasmyth, James, and J. Carpenter. The Moon: considered as a planet, a 



world, and a satellite. 2d edition. London. Purchased. 

 Nehring, A. Fossile Lemminge und Arvicolen aus dem Diluviallehm von 



Thiede bei Wolfenbuttel. The Author. 

 Neumayer, Dr. G. Anleitung zu Wissenschaftlichen Beobachtuugen auf 



Reisen. Berlin, 1875. Purchased. 

 Newberry, J. S. Report of the Geol. Surv. of Ohio. Vol. II. Geol. and 

 Palaeontology. Part I. Geology with maps. Columbus, 1874. 

 J. S. Newberry. 

 Newton's Zoology. Manuals of Elementary Science, 1874. I. Y. William- 

 son Fund. 

 Niiesch, Dr. J. Die Nekrobiose in Morphologischen Beziehung. Schaff- 



hausen, 1855. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Nuhn, Dr. A. Lehrbuch der vergleichenden Anatomic 1st Theil. 



Heidelberg, 1875. Wilson Fund. 

 Orson i, Francesco. I Microfiti ed i Microzoi della chemica organica. 1875. 



The Author. 

 Owen. British Fossil Reptiles. Part VI. Rathmell Wilson. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 531 



Paetel, Fr. Die bisber veroffentlichen Familien und Gattungsnamen der 

 Mollusken. Berlin, 1875. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Paleontologie Franchise, 25 duplicate numbers. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Same, le serie, Auimaux Invert. Ter. Juras. Liv. 29 and 30, 2e. 

 Vegetaux, Ter. Juras. Liv. 8 and 9. Wilson Fund. 



Parker, W. K. On the Structure and Development of the Skull in the 

 Pig (Sus scrofa.) The Author. 



Parkinson's Organic Remains. 3 Vols. Rathmell Wilson. 



Peabody, Alfred. Early Voyages to California. Henry Wheatland. 



Pfeffer, Dr. W. Die Periodischen Bewegangen der Blatt-organe. Leipzig, 

 1875. Purchased. 



Pfeiffer, Dr. Louis. Novitates conchologicse. 46, 47, Lief. Cassel. Wil- 

 son Fund. 

 Monographia Heliceorum viventium. Vols. I.-IV. Mon. Pneumo 

 napomorum viventium. 1 Vol. and Sup. 1 and 2. Vol. 7, Fasc. I., 

 II. Lipsias. R. AYilson, and Williamson Fund. 

 Nomenclator botanicus. Conscripsit Ludovicus Pfeiffer. Vol. I. 

 Fasc. 25, 27, 28, 29. Vol. II. Fasc. 25, 27. Cassellis, 1872. Vol. 

 I. Fasc. 46. Vol. II. Fasc. 46. Purchased. 



Philippics Fauna Molluscorum Regni utriusque Sicilise. Rathmell Wilson. 



Phipsou, Dr. T. L. The Utilization of Minute Life. Londou, 1864. I. V. 

 Williamson Fund. 



Photograph of Indian Skeletons exhumed at Marblehead, Nov. 10 and 11, 

 1874. Henry Wheatland. 



Pinart, Alph. L. Voyages a la C6te Nord-Ouest de lAmerique, executes 

 durant les annees 1870-72. Vol. I. Partie I. (Hist. Naturelle.) 

 Paris, 1875. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Plancus' De Couchis Minus Notis, 1739. Rathmell Wilson. 



Plateau, Felix. Notice sur Charles Poelman. Brussels, 1875. The 

 Author. 

 Recherches sur les Phenomenes de la Digestion chez Insectes. Bruxelles, 

 1874. The Author. 



Plues, Margaret. British Grasses. 1867. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Poey, Felipe. Poissons de l'He de Cuba. Especes Nouvelles. Salem. 

 The Author. 



Poggendorff's Biographisch-Literarisches Handworterbuch. Lief 1-6. 

 Rathmell Wilson. 



Poro's Malacologia della Provencia Comasca. Rathmell Wilson. 



Potiez and Michaud's Gallerie des Mollusques. Vols. 1 and 2, and Atlas. 

 Rathmell Wilson. 



Powell, M. Explorations of the Colorado River of the West and its tribu- 

 taries, explored in 1869, 70, 71, and 72, under the direction of the 

 Smithsonian Institution. Washington, 1875. Dep. of Interior. 



Prestwich, Joseph. The Past and the Future of Geology. London, 1875. 

 I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Pringsheim, Dr. N. Jahrbucher fur wissenschaftlichen Botanik. lOer 

 Band, ler Heft. Leipzig. 2er Heft. Purchased. 



Proctor, Richard. Transits of Venus. New York. Purchased. 



Proceedings at the Layiug of the Corner Stone of the New Public Build- 

 ings on Penn Square. 1874. Building Commission. 



Putnam, F. W. On some of the Habits of the Blind Crawfish, Cambarus 

 pellucidus, and the reproduction of lost parts. The Author. 

 Archaeological Researches in Kentucky and Indiana. 1874. The Author. 



Puton's Mollusques des Vosges. Rathmell Wilson. 



Rambosson, J. Astronomy. Translated by C. B. Pitman. New York. 

 Purchased. 




532 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Rathke's Entwicklungsgesckichte der Wirbelthiere. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Ravenel, Catalogue of Recent and Fossil Shells in the Cabinet of the late 



Edmund Ravenel. The Author. 

 Reeve, Lovell. Conchologia Iconica. Parts 318-323. London. Wilson 



Fund. 

 Reclus, Elis6e. The Earth. New York. Purchased. 



The Ocean, Atmosphere and Life. 2 vols. London. Purchased. 

 Reichenbach's Icones avium. Rathmell Wilson. 



Speciellen Ornithologie. 5 numbers. Rathmell Wilson. 



Heinrich Gustav. Xenia Orchidacea. 2er Band, 9er Heft. lOer Heft, 



1874. Purchased. 



Repertorium der Naturwissenchaften. 1. Jahrg. Nos. 1-6, Jan.-Juni, 



1875. The Editor. 



Report of the Commission of Engineers appointed to investigate and report 



a permanent plan for the Reclamation of the Alluvial Basin of the 



Mississippi River subject to Inundation. Engineer Depart. U. S. A. 



Upon the Invertebrate Fossils collected by the Expedition of 1871-2-3. 



With descriptions of new species. Engineer Department, 

 Upon the Ornithological specimens collected in the years 1871-2-3. 



Washington, Dept. of Interior. 

 Of the Committee appointed by the Board of Public Education to 

 inquire into the sanitary condition of the Schools of the First District 

 of Pennsylvania. Louis Wagner. 

 On the Meteorological, Magnetic, and other Observatories of the Do- 

 minion of Canada, 1875. Abstracts and Results from 1841-1871 inc. 

 2 vol. The Magnetic Observatory. 

 On the Niagara Falls Museum, with photograph of Mummies. Thos. 

 Barnett, 

 Reuter, F. Observations Meteorologiques faites a Luxembourg. Tome 



2me. Institute Royal Grand-Ducal de Luxembourg. 

 Ribot, M. Heredity. From the French of Th. Ribot. New York. Pur- 

 chased. 

 Ridgway, Robt. Birds of Colorado. Henry Wheatland. 



List of Birds observed at various localities contiguous to the Central 



Pacific R. R. The Author. 

 Monograph of the Genus Leucosticte, Swns. or Gray-crowned Finches. 



Washington. The Author. 

 Outlines of a natural arrangement of the Falconidre. Washington. 

 Monograph of the Genus Leucosticte or Gray-crowned Finches. Wash- 

 ington. Department of Interior. 

 Notes on the Bird Fauna of the Salt Lake Yalley. Henry Wheatland. 

 Rodwell, G. F. The Birth of Chemistry. London. Purchased. 

 Rogers, 2d Annual Report on the Geology of Pennsylvania, 1838. Wilson 



Library. 

 Rothe, Prof. Dr. C. Die S'augethiere Niederosterreichs einschleisslich der 



fossilen Yorkomnisse. Wien, 1875. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Rousset. Observations on the Sea or Pile Worm. London. Prof. Halde- 



man. 

 Russ, Dr. Karl. Die fremlandischen Stubenviigel ihre Naturgeschichte, 



Pflege unci Zucht. le Lief. Hannover, 1875. Purchased. 

 Riitimeyer, L. Die Yeranderungen der Thierwelt in der Schweiz. Basel, 



187G. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Ruy, L. Das Pflanzenleben des Meeres. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Sachs, Julius. Text-book of Botany, Morphological aud Physiological. 

 Translated by Alfred W. Beunet aud W. T. Thiselton Dyer. Oxford, 

 1875. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 




AUDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 533 



Samuelson, James. The Earth-worm and the common House-fly. London. 

 Purchased. 

 The Honey Bee. London. Purchased. 



Schliemann, Dr. Henry. Troy and its Remains. Edited by Philip Smith, 

 B. A. London. Purchased. 



Schimper, W. Ph. Traite de Paleontologie Vegetale. 3 vols. 8vo., and 

 Atlas folio. Purchased. 



Schmarda's Geographische Verbreitung der Thiere, 1853. Imperfect. Rath- 

 mell Wilson. 



Schlegel, H. Museum d'Histoire Naturelle des Pays Bas. lie Livr. Leide. 

 Wilson Fund. 



Schmidt, Adolf. Diatomaceen. Berlin, 1874. Wilson Fund. 



Schmidt, Dr. H. D. On the Development of the Smaller Bloodvessels in 

 the Human Embryo. The Author. 



Schmidt, Oscar. The Doctrine of Descent and Darwiuism. New York. 

 Purchased. 



Schrauf, Dr. Albrecht. Atlas der Krystal-Formen des Mineralreiches. L- 

 IV. Lief. Wien, 1865-1873. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Schreiber, Dr. Egid. Herpetologie Europasa. Braunschweig, 1875. Pur- 

 chased. 



Scudder, S. H. Note on the Species of Glaucopsyche from Eastern N. 

 America. 

 The two Principal Groups of Urbicohe. 



Note sur l'CEuf et le Jeune Age de la Chenille d'Oeneis Aello. 

 Facsimile reprint of Hiibner's Tentamen Determinationis Digestionis 



atque denominationis singularum stirpium Lepidopterorum. 

 Notice of the Butterflies and Orthoptera collected by Mr. Geo. M. 



Dawson. 

 Entomological notes Nos. III. and IV. 



Historical Sketch of the Generic Names proposed for Butterflies. 

 The Distribution of Insects in New Hampshire. Concord. The Au- 

 thor. 



Seeley, Harry Govier. The Ornithosauria. Cambridge, 1870. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 



Seemau, Ezra C. Views of Nature. The Author. 



Sellius' Historia Naturalis Terebiuis, 1733. Rathmell Wilson. 



Semper, Dr. C. Reisen im Archipel der Philippineu. 2er Theil, VIII. Heft. 

 Purchased. 



Sexe, S. A. Jaettegryder og gamle Strandlinier i fast Klippe. Christi- 

 ania, 1874. Roy. Norway Acad, of Sci. 



Sibbald's Scotia Illustrata. 1684. Rathmell Wilson. 



Seidlitz, Dr. Geo. Die Darwin'sche Theorie. Leipzig, 1875. Purchased. 



Sharpe, R. B. Catalogue of African Birds in the Collection of R. B. Sharpe. 

 London, 1871. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Siebke, H. Enumeratio Insectorum Nowegicorum. Fasc. I. Christiania. 

 Roy. Nov. Acad, of Sci. 



Smith, George. Assyrian Discoveries ; an Account of Explorations and 

 Discoveries on the Site of Nineveh, during 1873 and 1874. New 

 York. Purchased. 



Smith, S. J., and O. Harger. Report on the Dredging in the Region of St. 

 George's Banks, in 1872. The Author. 



Solly, Samuel. The Human Brain. 2d ed. London, 1847. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 



Southall, James C. The Recent Origin of Man. Philadelphia. I. V. 

 Williamson Fund. 




534 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Sowerby's Malacological and Conchological Magazine. Parts 1-2. Londou. 

 Rathmell Wilson. 



Sowerby, G. B. Thesaurus Conchyliorum. Parts 31 and 32. Mitra. Pur- 

 chased. 



Spinelli's Molluschi della Provincia Bresciana. 2d ed. Rathmell Wilson. 



Spottiswoode, Wm. Polarization of Light. London. Purchased. 



Stabile's Fauna Elvetica. Rathmell Wilson. 



Stahlberger, E. Die Ebbe und Fluth in der Rhede von Fiume. Buda Pest. 

 Hung. Nat. Hist. Soc. 



Stein's Infusiensthiere. 1 Abth. Rathmell Wilson. 



Stokley, W. S. 3d Annual Message of Wm. S. Stokley, Mayor of the City 

 of Philadelphia, with accompanying documents. June 24, 1875. Phila- 

 delphia. From the City. 



Sullivant, William S. Icones Muscorum. Supplement (Posthumous). Cam- 

 bridge. Purchased. 



Strecker, Herman. Lepidoptera, Rhopaloceres and Heteroceres. No. 12. 

 Reading, Pa. The Author. 



Strasburger, Dr. Edward. Ueber Zellbildung und Zelltheilung. Jena, 1875. 

 I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Sumichrast, Fr. Coup d'CEil sur la Distribution geographique des Reptiles 

 au Mexique. The Author. 



Theobald's Catalogue of Shells of Hindostan. Rathmell Wilson. 



Thomson, J. The Straits of Malacca, Indo-China, and China. New York. 

 Purchased. 



Trafford, F. W. C. Amphiorama, ou la Vue du Monde des Montagues de la 

 Spezia. The Author. 

 Amphiorama, ou la Vue du Monde. 2e Notice. Zurich, 1875. The 

 Author. 



Tyndall, John. Sound. 3d edition. 



Six Lectures on Light. Delivered in America in 1872-73. 2d edition. 

 Londou. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Van Beneden and Gervais, MM. Osteographie des Ctac6s vivants et fos- 

 siles. Text and plates. Liv. 12 and 13. Paris. Wilson Fund. 



Van der Hoeven, J. Catalogue de la Celebre Collection de Cranes prove- 

 nant de Feu. Leiden, 1875. 



Von Mohl, Hugo. Botanische Zeitung, herausgegeben von Hugo Von Mohl 

 und D. F. L. Von Schlechtendal. Her Jahrg. 1853. Berlin. Chas. 

 F. Parker. 



Van Vollenhoren S. C. Snellen, Pinacographie. I. S'Gravenhage, 1875. 

 Wilson Fund. 



Veslengius Joannas, De Plantes Agyptiis Patarii, 1638. S. S. Haldemau. 



Villa's Dispositio Conchyliarum. Rathmell Wilson. 



Waller, Horace. The Last Journals of David Livingstone in Central Africa. 

 New York. Purchased. 



Warreu, G. K. An Essay concerning important physical features exhibited 

 in the Valley of the Minnesota River and upon their significance. 

 From the Engineer Department. 

 Preliminary Report of Explorations in Nebraska and Dakota, in the 

 years 1855-56-57. Reprint. Washington, 1875. Engineer Depart- 

 ment. 

 Wattel, C. R. De l'Utilit6 dTntroduire la Sericulture a la Nouvelle-Cale- 



donie. The Author. 

 Wetherby, A. G. Description of Lepidopterous Larvae. The Author. 

 Whcatley's Shells of the United States. Wilson Library. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 535 



Wheeler, Geo. M. Annual Report upon the Geographical Explorations and 

 Survey west of the 100th Meridian in California, Nevada, Utah, 

 Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico, Wyoming, and Montana. Depart- 

 ment of Interior. 

 Preliminary Report upon Reconnoisance through Southern and South- 

 western Nevada made in 1869, by First Lieut. G. M. Wheeler, assisted 

 by First Lieut. D. W. Lockwood ; under the orders of Brig. Gen. E. 

 0. C. Ord. Washington, 1875. Eng. Department U. S. Army. 

 Progress Report upon the Geographical and Geological Explorations 

 and Survey west of the 100th Meridian, in 1872. From the Engineer 

 Department U. S. A. 



Winchell, Alex. Michigan. Being condensed Popular Sketches of the 

 Topography, Climate, and Geology of the State. With Charts. 



Wolff, Dr. Julius. Untersuchungen iiber die Entwicklung des Knochenge- 

 webes. Leipzig, 1875. Purchased. 



Wood, H. C, Jr. A Study of the Nature and Mechanism of Fever. The 

 Author. 



Zoologishe Ergebnisse der Nordseefahrt vom 21 Juli bis 9 Sept. 1812. Ber- 

 lin, 1874. Wilson Fund. 



JOURNALS AND PERIODICALS. 



NORWAY. 



Christiania. Det K. N. Frederiks Universitets Aarsberetning for Aaret. 



1871-3. 

 Index Scholarum. 1874-5. Royal Norway Acad, of Science. 

 Forhandlinger i Videnskabs-Selskabet i Christiania. 1872-3. Royal 



Norway Acad, of Science. 

 Nyt Magazin for Naturvidenskaberne. 9e Binds, 3 and 4 Heft ; lOe 



Binds, 1-4 Heft. Royal Norway Acad, of Science. 



SWEDEN. 



Stockholm. Meteorologisk Aarbog for 1870-73. 



DENMARK. 



Copenhagen. Memoires de la Societe Royale des Antiquaires du Norde. 



Nouvelle Serie, 1873-74. Copenhagen. The Society. 

 Tillaeg til Aarboger for Nordisk Oldkyndighed og Historie. Aargang, 



1873. The Society. 

 Oversigt over det K. D. Videnskabernes Selskabs Forhandlinger, 1874. 



No. 2. The Society. 



RUSSIA. 



Dorpat. Sitzungberichte der Dorpater Natursforscher-Gesellschaft. 3er 



Band, 5 and 6 Heft. 

 Archiv fur die Naturkunde Liv-, Ehst- und Kurlands. le Serie, 5er 



Band, 4e Lief, 7er Band, 2-4 Lief. 1874-5. The Society. 

 Helsingfors. Bidrag till Kanedom af Finlands Natur och Folk utgifna af 



Finska Vetenskaps-Societeten. Tjugondeforsta Hafte. The Society. 

 Observations faites a l'Observatoire Magnetique et Meteorologique de 



Helsingfors. 5me vol. The Observatory. 

 Ofversigt af Finska Yetenskaps-Societetens Forhandlinger XIV., XV., 



XVI. The Society. 




536 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Moscow. Bulletin de la Soci6te Imperiale des Naturalistes de Moscou. 

 Annee 1873, No. 3 ; 1874, No. 4. The Society. 

 Nouveau Memoires de la Societe Imperiale des Naturalistes de Mos- 

 cou. Tome 13, Liv. IV., 1874. The Society. 

 St. Petersburgh. Horre Societatis Entomological Rossiea?. Vol. IX., Nos. 

 3, 4; Vol. X., Nos. 1-4. The Society. 

 Memoire de PAcad6mie Imperiale des Scienees de St. Petersburg. 7e 



Serie, Tome 21, No. 6 : Tome 22, No. 3. 

 Bulletin of the same. Touie 19, Nos. 4, 5; Tome 20, Nos. 1, 2. The 

 Society. 



HOLLAND. 



Gravenhage. Tijdschrift der Nederlandsche Dierkundige Vereeniging. le 

 Deel, Jahrg. 1874; 2e Afl. The Society. 



GERMANY. 



Berlin. Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte. Von F. H. Troschel. 38er Jahrg. 

 6eHeft. 40er Jahrg. 4es Heft. 41er Jahrg. les and 2es Heft. The 

 Editor. 

 Same, 1864-5. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Deutsche Entomologische Zeitschrift, Herausg. von dem Entomol. 



Verein in Berlin. 19er Jahrg. les Heft. The Society. 

 Monatsbericht der K. P. Akademie der Wissenchaften zu Berlin vom 

 Jahre 1859-1873; Sept., Oct., Nov., Dec, 1874. Jan., Feb., Marz, 

 April, Mai, Juni, 1875. The Society. 

 Monatschrift des Vereins zur Beforderung des Gartenbaues, 17 Jahrg. 



The Society. 

 Sitzuugberichte der Gesellschaft Naturforschender Freunde zu Berlin 



aus dem Jahre 1874. The Society. 

 Zeitschrift der Deutschen Geologischen Gesellschaft. 26 Band, 2, 3, 

 and 4 Heft ; 27 Band, 1 Heft. The Society. 

 Bonn. Verhandlungen des Naturhistorischeu Vereins der Preussischen 

 Rheinlande und Westphalens. 30 Jahrg. 3 Folge. 10 Jahrg. 31e 

 Jahrg. 4e Folge. The Society. 

 Archiv flir Mikroskopische Anatomic Her Band ; 2es, 3es, 4es Heft. 

 Bonn, 1875. Supplement Heft. Purchased. 

 Braunschweig. Archiv flir Anthropologic 7er Band, 3es Vierteljahrsheft, 



8er Band, 2 Viert. Purchased. 

 Bremen. Abhandlungen Herausgegeben von Naturwissenschaftlichen Ve- 

 rein zu Bremen. 4 Bd., 2 und 3 Heft, 1874, 1875. Beilage, No. 4. 

 The Society. 

 Br'unn. Verhandlungen des Naturforschenden Vereins in Brlinn. XII. 



Band. 1 und 2 Heft. The Society. 

 Buda Pest. Hungarian Natural Hist. Society. Termeszettudomanyi Koz- 

 lony. A. K. M. Termeszettadomanyi Tarsulat. V. Kbtet, Jan.-Dec. 



1873. The Society. 



Cassel. Malakozoologische Blatter. Bd. 22. Bg. 8-12. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Same, vols. 6-11. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Danzig. Schriften der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft in Danzig. Neue 



Folge, 3er Band, 3es Heft, 1874. The Society. 

 Darmstadt. Notizblatt des Vereins fiir Erdkunde. III. Folge, 13 Heft, 



1874. The Society. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 537 



Dresden. Jaliresbericht des Vereins fur Erdkunde zu Dresden. Wissen- 

 schaftlichen Theil XL, XII. The Society. 

 Nova Acta Academic Csesareae Leopoldino Carolina? Germanicce Natu- 

 rae Curiosorum. Tome 36. Dresdae, 1863. The Society. 

 Sitzungberichte der Naturwissenschaften Gesellschat't Isis in Dresden. 

 Jahrg, 1874. Apr.-Sept., Oct., Dec. The Society. 

 Emden. 59er Jaliresbericht der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft in Emden. 



The Society. 

 Erlaugen. Sitzungsberichte der physikalisch-medicinischen Societ'at zu Er- 



langen. 6 Heft. The Society. 

 Frankfurt. Der Zoologische Garten. XV. No. 1-16. The Editor. 



Jahrbucher der deutschen Malakozoologiscken Gesellschaft. 2er Jahr?. 

 Heft I. and II. The Society. 

 Freiburg. Berichte iiber die Verhandlungen der Naturforschenden Gesell- 

 scaft zu Freiburg. I. B. Band I., pp. 499 et seq. Band VI. Heft 

 II., III. The Society. 

 Gera. 16er und 17er Jaliresbericht der Gesellschaft von Freunden der Na- 

 turwissenschaften in Gera. 1873-74. The Society. 

 Gb'ttingen. Nachrichten von der K. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften und 



der Georg-Augusts Universitat aus dem Jahre 1874. The Society. 

 Graz. Sitzungs-Berichte des Vereins der Aerzte in Steiermark. XI. Vereins- 



jahre 1873-4. The Society. 

 Halle. Abhandlungen der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft zu Halle. 13er 

 Bandes, 2er Heft. 1874. The Society. 

 Bericht liber die Sitzungen der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft zu Halle 

 im Jahre 1874. The Society. 

 Hamburg. Abhandlungen aus dem Gebiete der Naturwissen herausgegeben 

 von dem Naturwissenschaftlichen Verein in Hamburg. 5 Sand, 4 

 Abth. 1873. 6 Band, 1 Abth. The Society. 

 Journal des Museum Godeffroy. Heft VI.-VIII. Purchased. 

 Verhandlungen des Vereins fiir Naturwissenschaftliche Uuterhaltung 

 zu Hamburg, 1871-74. The Society. 

 Hannover. Dreiundzwanzigster und 24er Jaliresbericht der Naturhistorischen 

 Gesellschaft zu Hannover fiir das Gesch'aftsjahr 1872-74. The Society. 

 Heidelberg. Verhandlungen des Naturhistorischen medecinischen Vereins 



zu Heidelberg. I.-IV. The Society. 

 Innsbruck. Zeitschrift des Ferdinandeum fiir Tirol und Vorarlberg. 3e 



Folge, 19er Heft, 1875. The Society. 

 Leipzig. Archiv fiir Anatomie, Physiolo^ie und Wissenschaftliche Medecin. 

 Jahrg. 1875. Heft II.-VI. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Journal fur Ornithologie. 22 Jahrg. Heft III.; 23 Jahr. Heft I. 



Purchased. 

 Journal de Zoologie. 22 Jahrg. Heft IV. 4e Folge. 2 Baud. Pur- 

 chased. 

 Mittheilungen des Vereins fiir Erdkunde zu Leipzig, 1872-3. The 



Society. 

 Zeitschrift fiir Anatomie und Entwicklungsgeschichte. ler Jahrg. 



1 and 2 Heft. Purchased. 

 Zeitschrift fiir wissenschaftliche Zoologie. Band 13. 14, 15. Bathmell 



"Wilson. 

 The same. 24es Band, 4es Heft. 26es Band, les Heft. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 

 Luxembourg. Publications de l'Institut Royal Grand Ducal de Luxem- 

 bourg. Tome XIV. The Society. 

 35 




538 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Marburg. Schriften der Gesellscliaft zur Beforderung der gesammten Natur- 

 wissenschaften zu Marburg. Band 10. 5-10e Abth. 

 Sitzungsberichte of the same. The Society. 

 Neubrandenburg. Archiv des Vereins der Freunde de Naturgeschichte in 



Meklenburg. 1, 5, 7, 8, 11, 12, and 28 Jahrg. The Society. 

 Neustadt and Durkheim. Jahresbericht der Pollichia. 3, 4, 12, 14, 17, 22. 



32. The Society. 

 Prague. Astronomische, Magnetische und Meteorologishe Beobachtungen 

 an der K. K. Sternwarte zu Pra<j im Jahre 1874. 35 Jahrg. 

 Magnetische und Meteorologishe Beobachtungen an der K. K. Stern- 



warte zu Prag in Jahre 1873. The Observatory. 

 Sitzungberichte der K. B. Gesellscliaft der Wissenschaften in Prag 1874. 

 Abhandlungen of the same. 1874. 6e Folge, 7er Band, 1875. The 

 Society. 

 Regensburg. Correspondenz-Blatt des Zoologisch-Mineralogischen Vereins 

 in Regensburg. 10. 11, 14, 27, and 28 Jahrg. 

 Abhandlungen of the same. 6, 7, 8 and 10 Heft 1856-75. The Society. 

 Flora, herausgegeben vou der K. B. Botan. Gesellscliaft iu Regensburg. 

 Neue Reihe. 32 Jahrg. The Society. 

 Schaffhausen. Verhandlungen der Schweizerischen Naturforschenden Ge- 

 sellscliaft in Schaffhausen am 18-20 Aug. 1873 56 Jahres versamm- 

 lung. Jahresberichte 1872-73. The Society. 

 Stettin. Entomologische Zeitung. Herausgegeben von dem Entomologischen 



Vereine zu Stettin. 35er Jahrg. The Society. 

 Stuttgart. Neues Jahrbuch fur Mineralogie, Geologie, und Palseontologie. 

 Jahrg. 1874. 1-9 Heft. 1875. The Editor. 

 Wiirttenibergische naturwissenschaftliche Jahreshefte. 31 Jahrg. 1-3 

 Heft, 1875. The Society. 

 Wien. Denkschriften der K. Akademie die Wissenschaften. Mathem. 

 Natnr. Classe, 33er Band. The Society. 

 Sitzungsberichte der K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Mathemat. Na- 

 turwissen. Classe. Band 1 and 2, und Band LXVIIL. le Abth. 111. 

 5. 2e Abth. III. 5. 3e Abth. I. 5. Band LXIX., le Abth. 1.-1V. 

 2c Abth. I.-III. IV. Heft le Abth. to Band LXX. I. and II., 

 Heft 3e Abth. The Society. 

 Jahrbuch der K. K. Geol. Reichsanstalt. Band 24, No. 4; Baud 25, 



No. 3. 

 Verhandlungen of the same. 1-4, 6-10. 12. 13. 

 Abhandlungen of the same. Band VIII. Heft No. 1. 

 Wiesbaden. Jahrbucher des Nassauischen Vereins fiir Naturkunde. Jahrg. 



27-28, 1873-74. The Society. 

 Wiirzburg. Arbeiten aus dem Zoologisch-Zootomischen Institut in Wiirz- 

 burg. Herausg. von Prof. Dr. Carl Semper. Nos. 1-6, and 2er 

 Band, le Heft. 1872-74. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Verhandlungen der Physikal-medicin. Gesellscliaft in Wiirzburg. 



Neue Folge, VIII. Band. 1-4 Heft. From the Society. 

 Wiirzburger Naturwissenschaftliche Zeitschrift. 3-6 Band. Rath- 

 mell Wilson. 



SWITZERLAND. 



Bern. Mittheilungen der Nnturforschenden Gesellscliaft in Bern aus (kin 



Jahre 1873. No. 812-827. The Society. 

 Geneva. Effemeridi della Societa di Letture e Conversazione Scientifiche 



e d'altri Societa educative. Nuova Serie, Disp. 6 and 7. Geneva, 



1874. From the Society. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 539 



Memoires de la Societe de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle de 

 Geneve. Tome 23, 2e Partie. 1873-74. The Society. 

 Lausanne. Bulletin de la Societe Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles. 2e 



Serie. Vol. XIII. Nos. 73 and 74. The Society. 

 Zurich. Memoires de la Societe Paleontologique Suisse. Vol. I. Purchased. 

 Vierteljahrsschrift der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft in Zurich. 18er 

 Jahrg., l-4es Heft. The Society. 



BELGIUM. 



Brussels. Memoires Couronnes de l'Academie Royale des Sciences, Belles- 



Lettres et des Beaux Arts de Belgique. Collection in 4to. Vols. 



15-22, 26, 37, 38. 

 The same. Collection in Svo. Vols. 1-4, 7, and 23. 

 Memoires de l'Academie Royale des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et des 



Beaux Arts de Belgique. Vols. 15-23, 28, 29. and 40. The Society. 

 Bulletin of the same. Vol. XVI., Pt. 1 ; XXL, Pt. 2 XXII 2d 



Series, Vols. 1, 2, 3, 35, 36, 37. The Society. 

 Annuaire, 1874. Bruxelles. The Society. 

 Society Eutomologique de Belgique. Comptes Rendus. Serie II. Nos. 



6-15. The Society. 

 Liege. Memoires de la Societe Royale des Sciences de Liege. Tome 14me 



and 2me Serie, Tomes 4 and 5. The Society. 

 Mons. Memoires et Publications de la Societe des Sciences, des Arts et 



des Lettres du Haiuaut. Hie Serie, Tome 9me. 1875. The Society. 



FRANCE. 



Angers. Memoire de la Society Academique de Maine-et-Loire. Tome 27. 



Lettres et Arts. Tome 28. Sciences. The Society. 

 Memoires de la Societ6 Nationale d'Agriculture, Sciences et d'Arts 



d'Augers. Nouvelle Periode. Tome 17me. (1874.) Nos. 2, 3 and 



4. The Society. 

 Auxerre. Bulletin de la Societe des Sciences Historiques et Naturelles de 



l'Yonue, Annee 1874. 28e Vol. The Society. 

 Besancon. Academie des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts de Besangou. 



Seance publique du 25 Aout, 1873. The Society. 

 Bordeaux. Actes de la Societe Linneenne de Bordeaux. Tome 27, 2d 



Partie; Tome 28. 3me Serie, Tome 8, Ire et 2me Partie. The 



Society. 

 Memoires de la SociSte' des Science Physiques et Naturelles de Bor- 

 deaux. Tome I., 2e Serie, ler Cahier ; Tome X., 2e Cahier. The 



Society. 



Societe des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles de Bordeaux. Extrait 



des _ Proces-Verbaux des Seances. Tome X., pp. 9-19. The 



Society. 

 Lyons. Annales de la Societe d'Agriculture. Histoire Naturelle et Arts 



Utiles de Lyon. 4me Serie, Tome 4 and 5. With Folio Atlas. 2me 



Livr. de V. Thiolliere's Poissons Fossiles. From the Society. 

 Annales de la Societe Linneenne de Lyon. Tome 2me. Rathmell 



Wilson. 

 Annales des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles d'Agriculture et d'ln- 



dustrie. publiee par la Societe imperiale d'Agriculture, etc., de Lyon. 



3me SSrie, Tome VIII. From the Society. 

 Memoires de l'Academie des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts de Lyon. 



Classe des Sciences. Tomes 6, 7, 15, and 20. Classe des Lettres. 



Tomes 5, 6, 7, 12, and 15. From the Society. 




540 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Metz. Memoires de l'Academie de Metz. 3d Serie, le-2e Annee. Tables 



Generates. 1819-1871. The Society. 

 Montpellier. Academie des Sciences et Lettres de Montpellier. Memoires 



de la Section des Sciences. Tome VI., 2me Fasc. Annee 1867. 



Tome VIII.. 2e Fasc. Annee 1872. Section de Medecine. Tome 



IV., 3-6 Fasc. The Society. 

 Orleans. Memoires de la Societe d' Agriculture, Sciences, Belles-Lettres et 



Arts d'Orleans. Tome XVI., No. 3. Tome XVII., Nos. 1, 2, 3. 



The Society. 

 Paris. Annales des Mines. 7me Serie, Ire Livr. de 1875. Tome VII. 



Minister of Public Works, France. 

 Annales des Sciences Geologiques. Tome Gme, ler Cahier. 

 Annales des Sciences Naturelles. 6me Serie. Zoologie, Tome ler, Nos. 



1-4. 5me Serie. Botauique, Tome XX., Nos. 3-6. 5me Serie. Tome 



I., Nos. 1-6. Purchased. 

 Archives de Zoologie experimentale et generate. Tome 3me, Nos. 3 



and 4. Tome4me, Nos. 1 and 2. Purchased. 

 Bulletin de la Societe Botanique de France. Tome 20me, Session Ex. 



1. Tome 21me. Revue Bibliographique. C, D., and F. Comptes 



Rendus des Sciences, 3. Tome 22me,T875. Revue Bibl., A. The 



Society. 

 Bulletin Mensuel de la Societe d'Acclimatation. Tome 2. Tome 9, No. 



2; 3me Serie, Tome 2, No. 9. The Society. 

 Journal de Conchyliologie. 3e Serie. Tome XIV., No. 4. Tome XV.. 



Nos. 1, 2, and 3. 

 Same, 1863-64-65. Rathmell Wilson. The Editor. 

 Journal de Zoologie. Par M. Paul Gervais. Tome III., No. 6. Tome 



IV., Nos. 1. 2, 3, and 4. 

 Revue Scientifique de la France et de l'Etranger. 4me Annee, No. 24. 



to 5me Annee. No. 19. The Editor. 

 Revue and Magasin de Zoologie, 1865. Nos. 8-11. Rathmell Wilson. 

 Toulouse. Memoires de l'Academie des Sciences, Inscriptions et Belles 



Lettres de Toulouse. 7me Serie. Tome VI. The Society. 



ITALY. 



Milan. Programma del R. Institute technico Supcriore in Milano per 1' An- 

 no Scolastico 1874-75. Publicato per cura del Consiglio direttivo. 

 The Society. 



Modena. Anuuario della Societa dei Naturalisti in Modena. Serie 11a Anno 

 IX. Fasc. 1 and 2. The Society. 



Naples. Atti del Reale Instituto d'lncorraggiamento alle Scieuze Naturali 

 di Napoli. 2d Serie. Tome X. and XL ls7.~>. The Society. 



Torino. Atti della R. Academia delle Scieuze di Torino. Vol. IX. Nos. 

 1-5. The Society. 



Trieste. Bollettino della Societa Adriatica di Scienze Naturali in Trieste. 

 No. 1. 1874. The Society. 



GREAT BRITAIN. 



Belfast. Annual Report of the Proceedings of the Belfast Naturalists' 

 Field Club, 1873-74. Series 11.. Vol. I., Pt. L, 1875. The Society. 



Dublin. Journal of the Royal Dublin Society. Vol. II., III., and No. 25. 

 The Society. 

 Journal of the 1'oval (Jeoeraphieal Society of Ireland. Vol. II., Parts 

 1, 2, 3. Vol. 111., Part 2. The Society. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 541 



Journal of the Eoyal Geological Society of Ireland. Vol. XIV., Part 

 I. The Society. 

 Edinburgh. Proceedings of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. Session 1873- 

 4. No. 87. 



Transactions of the same. Vol. 27, Part II. The Society. 



Transactions and Proceedings of the Botanical Society of Edinburgh. 

 Vol. XII., Part I. The Society. 



Transactions of the Botanical Society. Vol. VII., Parts 1, 2. Vol. IX., 

 Part 2. The Society. 

 Glasgow. Proceedings of the Philosophical Society of Glasgow, 1874-75. 

 Vol. IX., No. 2. 



Transactions of the Geological Society of Glasgow. Vol. I., Parts 1, 

 Vol. III., Parts 1, 2, and Supplement, Vol. IV., Parts 1, 2, 3, Vol. 

 V., Part 1. The Society. 

 Liverpool. Proceedings of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Liver- 

 pool, No. 28. The Society. 

 London. Curtis's Botanical Magazine. Vols. I. 100, 1790-1874. I. V. 

 Williamson Fund. 



Gervillea. A Monthly Record of Crvptogamic Botany and its Litera- 

 ture. Edited by M. 0.* Cooke. Vol.1. 1872-3. The Editor. 



Hardwicke's Science Gossip. 1866-1875. Sept. and Oct., 1875. I. V. 

 AVilliamson Fund. 



Journal of Botany, British and Foreign, Nos. 145-154. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 



Journal of the Chemical Society. Aug.-Dec. 1874. Jan. -July, 1875. 

 From the Society. 



Linnean Society, Proceedings of. The Sessions of 1873-4.. Additions 

 to the Library, etc. Journal : Botany, Vol. 14, Nos. 77-8 ; Zoology, 

 Vol. 12, Nos. 58 and 59. The Society. 



Nature. Nos. 158-315 inclusive. Chas. F. Parker and The Editor. 



Notes and Queries. Parts XII.-XVIL, 5th Series. The Editor. 



Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society. Vol. XVIII., No. 1. 

 Vol. XIX., Nos. 1-7. 



Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London, 1874, Part IV. ; 1875, 

 Part I. ; 1871, Part I. 



Transactions of the same. Vol. VII., Parts 7 and 8 ; Vol. VIII. , 1 and 

 2 ; Vol. IX., 1-3. The Society. 



Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science, N. S., Nos. 2-15 and 32- 

 60. Purchased. 



Report of the Proceedings at the Dinner of the Cobden Cub. July 11, 

 1874. The Club. 



Report of the 43d Meeting of the British Association for the Advance- 

 ment of Science, held at Bradford, Sept. 1873. 



Same. 44th Meeting, 1874. 



The Annals and Magazine of Natural History, Nos. 75-79, and 85-93, 

 4th series. Purchased. 



The Ibis. 3d series, Nos. 16-19. Vol. V., 17, 18, 19. Vol. III., Sup- 

 plement, 1873. Purchased. 



The Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, conducted by G. M. Hum- 

 phrey and Wm. Turner. 2d Series, Nos. XIV.-XVI. 



The Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland. 

 New Series, Vol. VII., Part II., and 52d Annual Report. The 

 Society. 



The Journal of the Linnean Society. Vol. XIV., Nos. 73-75, Botany; 

 Vol. XII., No. 57, Zoology. 




542 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



The Journal of the Eoyal Horticultural Society of London. Vol. IV., 



new series, Part 15. The Society. 

 The Journal of the Society of Arts. Vol. 22. The Society. 

 The Gardener's Chronicle. Nos. 57 and 71-97. The Editor. 

 The Geological Magazine. Nos. 127-136. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 The London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine and Journal 



of Science. 4th Series, Nos. 311-315, and 321-332. Purchased. 

 The Micrographic Dictionary. 3d ed., Vols. I. and II. Purchased. 

 The Monthly Microscopical Journal. Nos. 37-60, 73-83. Purchased. 

 The Popular Science Review. Vol. V. and Vols. VIII.-XIV. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 The Zoological Record for 1873. Wilson Fund. 

 Transactions of Linnean Society. Vol. XXVI II., Part 4 ; Vol. XXIX., 



Part 3; Vol. XXX., Parts 1. 2. 3. Second Series. Botany, Vol. L, 



Part 1. Zoology. Vol. I., Part 1. The Society. 

 Triibner's American and Oriental Literary Record. Nos. 106-107. The 



Publishers. 

 Newcastle-upon-Tyne. Natural History Transactions of Northumberland 



and Durham. Vol. VI. The Society. 

 Watford. Transactions of the Watford Natural History Society. Vol. I., 



Pt. I., 1875. The Society. 



UNITED STATES. 



Albany. 21st and 22d Annual Report of the Regents of the University of 

 the State of New York, on the Condition of the State Cabinet of 

 Natural History, 1869-72. The Regents. 

 Buffalo. Bulletin of the Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences. Vol. II. No. 



4 ; Vol. III., No. 1. The Society. 

 Boston. Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. 

 New series. Vol. II. The Society. 

 Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History. Vol. 17, No. 



2. Vol. 18, No. 1. The Society. 

 Memoirs of the same. Vol. 2, Part 3, No. 5 ; Part 4, Nos. 1-3. The 

 Society. 

 Cambridge. Annual Report of the Museum of Comparative Zoology, 1874. 

 The Directors. 

 Eighth Annual Report of the Trustees of the Peabody Museum of 

 American Archaeology and Ethnology, 1875. The Trustees. 

 Hartford. Proceedings of the Am. Association for the Advancement of 

 Science, 23d meeting, held at Hartford, Conn., Aug. 1874. The 

 Society. 

 New Haven. American Journal of Science and Arts. 3d Series, Vol. LIX., 



Nos. 49-59. The Editors. 

 New York. The American Chemist. Vol. V., No. 6-Vol. VI., No. 3. 

 The Editor. 

 Annals of the Lyceum of Natural History of New York. Vol. XL, 



Nos. 1-6. The Society. 

 Bulletin of the Torrey Botanical Club. Vol. 5, Nos. 7, 10, and 12 ; 



Vol. VI., Nos 1, 4, 5, and 9. Thos. Median. 

 Journal of the American Geographical Society of New York. Vol. IV. 



The Society. 

 New York Medical Journal. Vol. XXI.-Vol. XX1L, 5. The Editor. 

 Popular Science Monthly. No. 34-44. The Editor. 

 Transactions of the New York Academy of Medicine. 2d Series, 



Vol. 1. 

 Proceedings of the same. May 20, 1875. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 543 



Philadelphia. American Journal of Conchology. Vol. 1, Parts 1-4. 



Rathmell Wilson. 

 American Journal of Pharmacy. 4th Scries, Nos. 1-10. The Editor. 

 Annual Report (3d) of the Board of Managers of the Zoological Society 



of Philadelphia. The Society. 

 Eighth Annual Report of the Board of Trustees of the Building Fund 



of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. From the 



Board. 

 Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Parts 1 and 2. 1875. The Publication Committee. 

 Proceedings of the American Pharmaceutical Association at the 22d 



Annual Meeting, held in Louisville, Ky., Sept. 1874. The Society. 

 Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society. Vol. XIV., Nos. 



91-94. 'The Society. 

 Transactions of the same. Vol. XV., New Series, Part II. The 



Society. 

 The American Journal of the Medical Sciences. Nos. 137-140. 

 The Medical News and Library. Vol. 32, Nos. 385-395. The Editor. 

 The Dental Cosmos. Vol. 17. Nos. 1-11. The Editor. 

 The Gardener's Monthly. Vol. 17, Nos 1-11. The Editor. 

 The Journal of the Franklin Institute. 3d Series, May, 1875. Vol. 



69, Nos. 1, 3, and 5 ; 589-593 ; The Editor. 

 The Penn Monthly. Nos. 63-71. The Editor. 

 Salem. Bulletin of the Essex Institute. Vol. 6, No. 9 ; Vol. 7, No. 5. The 



Society. 

 Proceedings of the 23d Anniversary of the Essex Institute, March 5, 



1873. Henry Wheatland. 

 The American Naturalist. Vol. 9, Nos. 1-11. Editor. 

 St. Louis. The Transactions of the Academy of Science of St. Louis. Vol. 



III.. No. 2. The Society. 

 The Western. New Series, Vol. 1, Nos. 1-11. The Editor. 

 Washington. Annual Report of the Chief of Engineers to the Secretary of 



War for the year 1874. In two parts. The Author. 

 Bulletin of the U. S. Geol. and Geog. Survey of the Territories. Nos. 



2 and 3. Second Series. Dept. of Interior. 

 Circular No. 8, War Department, Surgeon-General's Office. A Report 



on the Hygiene of the U. S. Army, with descriptions of Military 



Posts. War Department. 

 1st, 2d, and 3d Annual Reports of the U. S. Geological Survey of the 



Territories for the years 1867-68-69. 

 Supplement to 5th Annual Report of ditto. 

 Miscellaneous Pub. No. 1, Gannett's List of Elevations. 

 Catalogue of Photographs. 



Field and Forest. Vol. 1, Nos. 1 and 2. The Editor. 

 Monthly Report of the Bureau of Statistics, Treasury Department. 



The Department. 

 Report of the Commissioner of Education. The Author. 

 Smithsonian Reports for 1873-74. The Institution. 

 Worcester. Proceedings of the American Antiquarian Society. Nos. 63- 



64. 1875. The Society. 




544 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



CANADA. 



London. The Canadian Entomologist. Vol. 6, No. 11 ; Vol. 7, No. 10. 



The Editor. 

 Ontario. Report of the Entomological Society of the Province of Ontario 



for the year 1874. The Society. 

 Quebec. Le Naturaliste Canadien. Vol. VI., No. 12- Vol. VII., No. 10. 



Editor. 

 Toronto. The Canadian Journal of Science, Literature, and History. Vol. 



XIV., No. 4. The Editor. 



MEXICO. 



Mexico. Boletin de la Sociedad de Geografia y Estadistica de la Republica 



Mexicana. Tercera Epoca. Tome II., Nos. 1-4. Mexico, 1875. 



The Society. 

 El Propagandor Industrial. Tome 1, Nos. 4 and 6. Mexico, 1875. 



The Editor. 

 La Naturaleza. Tome III., Nos. 7-16. Mexico, 1875. The Mex. 



Soc. of Nat. Hist. 



SOUTH AMERICA. 



Buenos Ayres. Anales del Mnseo Publico de Buenos Ayres. Entrega 1, 

 3-11. Director of the Museum. 



ASIA. 



Batavia. Tijdschrift voor Indische Taal-Land-en Volkenkunde, uitgegeven 

 door het Bataviaasch Crenootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen. 

 Deel XX., Afl. 4-6. Deel XXL, Afl. 1 and 2. 

 Notulen of same. Deel X., No. 4. Deel XL, Nos. 1-4. 1873. 

 Alphabetical Lists, etc., 1873. The Society. 

 Calcutta. Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal. Part I., Nos. 1, 3, 

 and 4. Part II., Nos. 2, 3, and 4. 1875. 

 Proceedings of same. Nos. 8, 9, 10. 1875. Isaac Lea. 

 Records of the Geological Survey of India. Vol. VII. 

 Memoirs of same. 8vo. Vol., X., Part 2 ; Vol XL, Part 1. 

 Memoirs of same. 4to. Palseontologia Indica. Ser. X., 1. The Survey. 

 Yokohama. Transactions of the Asiatic Society of Japan. Vol. 3, Part 1. 

 The Society. 



NEW ZEALAND. 



Wellington. Transactions aud Proceedings of the New Zealand Institute, 



1874. Vol. Vll. The Society. 

 Tasmania. Monthly Notices of Papers, and Proceedings of the Royal 

 Society of Tasmania for 1873. The Society. 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



545 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Ablepharon 428 



Abromys 272, 298 



Acanthinnla 155, 212 



Acavus 149 



Accipiter 78 



Acer 28, 270 



Achatina 148 



Achatinella 144, 148 



Acicula 139 



Actinotia 62 



Acronycta 24 



^Ecidium 329 



iEdophron 422 



./Egialitis 357 



-ffigilops 437 



iEgiotbus 350 



Agelseus 351 



Aglaja 155, 215 



Agrotis 55, 65, 422, 429 



Ailanthus 368 



Aix 356 



Alauda 348 



Alcedo 347 



Alucita 33 



Alypia 46, 54 



Ambloctonus 22, 444, 448 



Amblypoda 73 



Amiurus 255 



Ammoconia 55 



Ammonites 36 



Amoeba 41, 126, 414 



Amolita 65 



Ampelis 349 



Amphibulima 245 



Ampbycyon 256 



Anaderus 147 



Anaptomorphus 256 



A nas 356 



Anchippodus 447 



Anostoma 148 



Anostomella 148 



Anous 357 



Anser 355 



Antenor 89 



Anthus 348 



Antiacodon 21, 256 



Antilope 257 



Antrostomus 353 



Apatela 418 



Aphlops 260 



Aracbnis 31 



Aramus 354 



Arcbegosaurus 404 



Archibuteo 109, 345 



Arctia 30, 54 



Ardea 353 



Ardetta 354 



Ariolimax 148, 154, 193, 236 



Arion 148, 154, 191, 241 



Arionta 155, 216 



Arsilonche 428 



Ascaris 14, 17 



Ascomys 130 



Aspergillus 11 



Aspidorus 147 



Astrorhiza 75 



Astur 78, 473 



Asturina 89 



Athoracopborus 149 



Attacus 33 



Aublysodon 264 



Auchenia 258 



Axis 41 



Azeca 148 



Bacterium 263 



Balea 148 



Balsam 18 



Batbmodon 73 



Begonia .... 18 



Belemnites 36 



Belodon 266 



Berendtia 149 



Binneia 148, 154, 195 



Biomyxa 125 



Bombyx 26 



Bonasa 350 



Botaurus 353 



Bouvardia 18 



Boysia 148 



Branta 355 



Bromelia 36 




54G 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Browallia 18 



Buchanania 146 



Bubo 344 



Bucephala 356 



Bulimulus. . . .148, 148, 155, 224, 



241, 245 



Bunotherium 21 



Bnsarellus 89 



Butaquila 89 



Buteo 89, 344, 502 



Buteola 89 



Buteogallus 89 



Butorides 354 



Csecilianella 148, 153, 186 



Cseliaxis 146 



Calamites 267 



Calandra 351 



Calla 18 



Oallopistria 65 



Calocitta 501 



Calosoma 24 



Calype 434 



Camelus 262 



Campephilus 347 



Cams 256,448 



Caprimulgus 353 



Caracollus 118 



Cardinalis 350 



Carduelus 350 



Camifex 471 



Carpodacus .' 350 



Caryodes 148 



Cassidaria 361 



Castor 440 



Catastomus 125 



Catharia 415 



Cathartes 271, 344 



Catillus 466 



Catocala 427 



Cecropia 29, 54 



Centurus 347 



Ceraterpeton 16 



Ceratodus 120, 404, 405 



Certhia 347 



Cerura 54, 47 



Cervus 41, 257 



Ceryle 347 



Ohaetura 352 



Chamaepelia 348 



Charadra 55 



Charadrius 357 



Charadrus 357 



Chen 355 



Chiromys 445 



Chroecocephalus 357 



Chrysanthemum 18 



Chrysomitris 350 



Cicada 24 



Cionodon 9 



Circaetus 89 



Circus 345, 479 



Cirrhophanus 421 



Citheronia 28 



Cistothorus 351 



Clastes 10 



Clausilia 148 



Clepsydrops 406, 40,7 



Climacocercus 471 



Clisiocampa 51, 54 



Closteria 124 



Coccyzus 346 



Cochlostyla 149 



Ccelocontrum 148 



Colaptes 347 



Coleopliora 54 



Collurio 347 



Columba 348 



Columua 148 



Compsemys 9 



Contophus 348 



Conurus 345 



Convolvulus 18 



Cooperastur 7S 



Corilla 148 



Corvus 339, 346 



Coscinodiscus 75 



Cosmosoma 32, 54 



Cosoryx 257 



Corvphodon 73 



Cotyle 353 



Craxirex 89 



Cricetodipus 272, 300 



Cricetus 130 



Cricotus 407 



Crotelaria 46 



Ctenucha 44, 54 



Cuculus 346 



Cupidouia 349 



Cyanocitta 346, 501 



Cyanospiza 350 



Cyanurus 346 



Cygnus 355 



C\lindrella..l44, 149, 155, 222, 



245, 251 



Cynocephalus 123 



Cysticopsis 148 



Dactylosphserium 415 



Dahlia 18 



Dama 41 



Daudebardia 146 



Dasyrus 446 



Demas 419 



Dendroeca 347, 352 



Dendrolimax 147 



Diacodon 446 



Dicotyles 21 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



547 



Dicrocevns 257 



Didymictis 21, 22, 444, 448 



Difflugia 415 



Dinamceba 415 



Diphrissa 19 



Diplodus 404 



Diplomphalus 146 



Diplostoma 130 



Dipodomys 272, 273, 305 



Dolichonyx 350 



Dorcasia 155, 214 



Drosera 329 



D3 r schorista 432 



Eacles 28 



Ectoganus 447 



Ectopistes 348 



Elanoides 345 



Elanus 345 



Elaps 11 



Elephas 121, 402 



Emberiza 350 



Empidonax 348 



Endodonta 248 



Ennea 146 



Eremopbila 348 



Ercunetcs 355 



Eucalobium 148 



Eucalyptus 270 



Eudryas 47, 49, 54 



Euparypha 155, 219 



Euphorbia 329 



Fala 425 



Falco 78, 89, 344, 470, 502 



Ferussaccia 148, 153, 185, 241 



Filaria 17 



Florida 353 



Fringilla 350 



Fruticicola 155, 214 



Fulica 358 



Gaeotis 245 



Gallodea 362 



Gallinula 358 



Garrulus 349 



Garzetta 353 



Gavialis 19 



Georays 130, 272 



Geomolacus 148 



Geostilbia 148 



Geothlypis 352 



Gibbus 146 



Glandina 146, 152, 156, 234 



Glaucidium 480 



Glyptostoma 155, 219 



Gnophoela 44 



Gonospira 146 



Gonostoma 154, 199 



Gracula 346 



Graculus 356 



Gracillaria 50 



Gromia 124 



Grus 353 



Guiraca 350 



Gypoictiuia 89 



Hadena 61, 418, 419, 431, 



Hadrosaurus 9, 329 



Hsematopus 357 



Haliaetns 344 



Haploscapha 467 



Harporhyncbus 348 



Harpy haliaetus 89 



Harpyia , 89 



Harveya 65 



Helicodiscus 147, 153, 184 



Heliophyla 419 



Heliothis 69, 422, 426 



Helix. . . .140, 148, 197, 238, 241, 



248, 335 



Helminth opbaga 352 



Helotropba 419 



Hcmitrochus 147, 153, 181, 240 



Hempbillia. ..148, 154, 195, 237, 241 



Herodias 353 



Herpetotheres 479 



Heteraetus 89 



Heteromys 272 



Heterospizias 89 



Hibiscus 49 



Hirundo 352 



Hippotherium 259 



Holospira 148, 153, 183 



Homoptera 435 



Hyamodon 22 



Hyaliraax 149 



Hyalina 247 



Hyalospbenia 415 



Hylotomua 347 



Hypbasma 16 



Hyopsodus 21 



Hyposaurus 19 



Hypselostoma 148 



Ibis 354 



Ibycus 147 



Ictinia 345 



Icteria 349 



Icterus 349 



Inoceramus 466 



Io 54 



Iscbyodus 19 



Juglans 28, 439 



Junco 351 




548 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Labyrinthus 148 



Laelaps 264,329,408 



Lagopus 349 



Lanius 347 



Laopithecus 256 



Laphygma 65 



Larus 357 



Lepidosiren 51 



Lepidosteus 255 



Leptoloma 148 



Leptomylus 19 



Letournexia 158 



Leucania 428 



Leucochroa 148 



Leucopternis 89 



Lignus 149, 155, 225, 237, 244 



Lilhun 412 



Limax 147, 153, 172, 235 



Limicolaria 148 



Linaria 350 



Lithacodia 71 



Lithocolletis 50, 54 



Lithotis 148 



Litoprosopus 65 



Lophopteryx 434 



Lopophanes 352 



Loxia 342, 350 



Loxolophodon 73 



Lucar 349 



Luna 54 



Luscinia 352 



Lycomorpha 54 



Lygranthcecia 421 



Macroceramus. .149, 155, 223, 241, 



245, 251 



Macroglossa 54 



Macrocyclis . .147, 152, 158, 234, 247 



Magnolia 465 



Malaclemmys 255 



Mamestra 59, 418, 420, 425, 430 



Manatus 452 



Mariella 147 



MastigamcBba 415 



Megaspira 148 



Melanerpes 347 



Melantho 336 



Meleagris 340, 349 



Melospiza 351 



Mermis 15, 400 



Merula 349 



Merycodus 257 



Mesodon 154, 208, 255, 83 ! 



Mesonyx 21, 22, 447 



Metahadena 431 



Micrastur 471, 472, 476 



Miliola 74 



Milvus 345 



Mimus 348 



Mniotitta 347 



Molothrus 351 



Monera 40 



Mormella 355 



]\Iotacilla 351 



Mns 131 



Muscicapa 348 



Myiarcb.ua 348 



Mytbomys 446, 448 



JSTanina 147, 248 



Navicula 466 



Nerophis 450 



Neuroma 44 



Niana 78, 86, 471 



Noctua 56 



Nonagria 50 



Notodonta 43, 54 



Numenius 354 



Nyctea 344 



Nyctiardea 353 



Oeta 54 



(Enectra 50 



( hnalonyx 149 



Onchidella 146 



Onchidium 146 



Oncocnemis 60 



Onocratelus 357 



Onycbotes 89 



Oopelta 147 



Opalia 463 



Ophibolus 11 



Orgya 54 



Oriolus 349 



Orneodes 54 



Orthalicus. . ..144, 149, 155, 228, 



237, 241, 245 



Orthosia 66, 328, 433 



Ortalida 501 



Ortyx 350 



Oryctomys 134 



Osphyolax 460 



Ostrea 139,442 



Othelosoina 147 



Ouramoeba 126, 414 



Oxyrena 21, 444, 448 



Palseonictus 447 



Pallifera 148, 154, 196, 237 



Paluta 141 



Panda 148 



Pandion 344 



Panthea 428 



Pantolestes 21, 256 



Papilio 33 



Paraponyx 49, 54 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



549 



Parastichtis 425 



Parmarion 147 



Parmella 147 



Parula 352 



Parns 352 



Partula 149, 244 



Passer 351 



Passerella 350 



Patula 147, 153, 177, 237 



Pelicanus 357 



Peltella 148 



Pelycodus 21 



Perideris 148 



Perognathus 272, 279 



Peronia 146 



Petaurista 446 



Patenia 146 



Petrella 357 



Pfeifferia 148 



Phaeathon 357 



Phascolomys 446 



Phaseolus 368 



Phasianns 12 



Philohela 355 



Philomycus 147 



Phcenicopterus 358 



Phosphorax 147 



Phryganea 32, 42 



Phryganidia 46, 54 



Phury s 65 



Picas 347 



Pineria 149, 245 



Pipilo 350 



Plagiomimicus 425 



Plagioptycha 148 



Plastoraenus 9 



Platalea 354 



Platypterix 47 



Platysamia 28 



Plectostoma 148 



Pleuroptyx 16 



Pliauchenia 258, 262 



Plotus 357 



Podiceps 357 



Poebrotherium 262 



Pcecilopternis 90 



Polioptila 351 



Polygonum 24 



Polygyra 154, 201 



Polygyrella 154, 203 



Polymita 147 



Polyphemus 29, 54 



Pomatia 155, 221 



Portulaca 329 



Porzana 358 



Procellaria 357 



Procamelus 258, 262 



Progne. 352 



Promethea 54 



Prophysaon..l48, 154, 194, 236, 241 



Protamceba 32 



Prototomus 22 



Pseudachatina 148 



Pseudemys 255 



Pseudolimacodes 65 



Pseudostoma 130 



Psitticus 345 



Psyche 42 



Psychomorpha 49 



Pterodon , 447 



Pterolestes 89 



Pterophorus 54 



Ptiloris 451 



Punctum 149, 155, 229 



Pupa 148, 153, 188, 241 



Pyranga 349 



Pyrus 28, 439 



Psychomorpha 54 



Qnadrula 415 



Quercus 270, 415, 437, 465 



Querquedula 356 



Quinqueoculina, 74 



Quiscalus 346 



Rallus 358 



Raveuia 146 



Recurvirostra 354 



Regalis 54 



Regulus 351 



Remigia 71 



Ribes 28 



Rhinoceros 271 



Rhodea 148 



Rhynchops 357 



Robinia 400 



Roecus 255 



Rosalina 74 



Rotalia 74 



Rupornis 89 



Rusa 41 



Ruticilla 352 



Rhytida 146 



Saccomys 272 



Saccophorus 130 



Sagda 147 



Sarcolemur 256 



Sarcophaga 446 



Sarracenia 269 



Sayornis 27, 348 



Scalaria 463 



Seepsis 54 



Schinia 67 




550 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Scolopax 355 



Stenogyra....l48, 153, 187, 241, 251 



Stenopus 147 



Stenotrema 154, 204 



Stephanoceros 121 



Scops 344,480 



Sciurus 349 



Setophaga 352 



Sialia 351 



Simpulopsus 148 



Sitta 347 



Smerinthus 54 



Solanum 18 



Solenodon 445 



Sparvius 110, 470 



Strix 344 



Strobila 154,200 



Strophia 148, 154, 190 



Sturnella 348 



Spiraxis 146 



Spizaetus 89 



Spizella 351 



Sphenodon 404 



Sphinx 35 



Sphyropicus 347 



Sterna 357 



Sternus 351 



Stibadium 425 



Strebelia 146 



Strepsilas 355 



Strepstostele 146 



Streptostyla 146 



Streptaxis 140 



Stypolophus 21, 444, 448 



Succinea 149, 155, 230, 242 



Sula 357 



Syneda 435 



Syrnium 344, 480 



Synoplotherium 23, 445 



Tachea 155, 220 



Tachypetes 357 



Tacbytriorcbis 90 



Taenia 10 



Tseniocampa 432 



Tseniosa 432 



Tantalus 340, 354 



Tapinostola 432 



Tarache 65, 69, 426 



Tebennophorus 153, 181, 237 



Tennentia 147 



Terebratula 36 



Testacella 146 



Tetrao 349 



Textilaria 74 



Thalpocares 434 



Thomomys 130 272 



Tbryothorus 351 



Tliyreus 25 



Tillandsia 466 



Tinea 37 



Tomigerus 148 



Tomitherium 256 



Tornatella 148 



Totanus 354 



Trichocephalus 440 



Tringa 355 



Tringoides 355 



Trionyx 9 



Triottopsis 154, 206 



Trochilium 32 



Trochilns 347 



Troglodytes 351 . 



Turdus. 348 



Typothorax 265 



Tyrannus 348 



Uintatherium 73 



Unio 255 



Urocyclus 147 



Urubitinga 89 



Urubitornis 89 



Utetbeisa 54, 46 



Vallonia 155, 213 



Vanessa 24, 33 



Veronicella 148, 156, 232, 242 



Vertigo 148, 154, 189 



Vibrio 263 



Vireo 348 



Vitis 28 



Vitrina..l47, 153, 171, 236, 241, 336 



Vitrinoconus 147 



Vitrinoidea 147 



Vitrinopsis 147 



Volviceramus 467 



Vultur 271, 339, 344 



Xantbia 66 



Xantbouyx 148 



Yucca 36 



Zcnaidura 348 



Zoiiites..l41, 147, 153, 161, 234, 



242, 835 



Zonotricbia 351 



Zospeum 148 




GENERAL INDEX. 



551 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Additions to Library, 522. 



Allen, H., On the Notation of Ribs, 

 416 ; On the Effect of the Bipedal 

 Position in Man, 408. 



Amendment to the By-Laws, 128. 



Bannan, Dr. D. R., Announcement 

 of death of, 124. 



Berthoud, E. L., On the occurrence 

 of Uranium, Silver, Iron, etc., in 

 the Tertiary Formation of Colorado 

 Territory, 359, 863. 



Binney, W. G., On the Lingual 

 Dentition and Genitalia of Partula, 

 and other Pulmonata, 9. 244 ; On 

 the Jaw and Lingual Membrane 

 of North American Terrestrial 

 Pulmonata, 9, 140. 



Chapman, H. C, On the Disposition 

 of the Great Omentum in Cynoce- 

 phalus porcarins, etc., 123 ; On 

 the Anatomy of the Giraffe, 401 ; 

 Post-mortem Examination of an 

 Elephant, 402 ; Observations on 

 the Structure of the Manatee, 417, 

 452 ; On Trichocephalus affinis, 

 Dies., 440 ; On the Castor Glands 

 of the Beaver, 440. 



Committee upon Centennial Exhibi- 

 tion, 20. 



Committees for 1875, 13. 



Conrad, T. A., Descriptions of a new 

 fossil Shell from Peru, 124, 139 ; 

 Notes on the genus Catillus, 

 Brong., 466. 

 Cope, Edw. D., On the Transition 

 Beds of the Saskatchewan District, 



9 ; The Herpetology of Florida, 



10 ; The extinct Batrachia of Ohio, 

 16 ; On Green-sand Yertebrata, 

 19 ; On the Homologies of the Sec- 

 torial Tooth of Carnivora, 20; The 

 Feet of Bathmodon, 73 ; On an 

 Indian Kitchenmidden, 255 ; On 

 fossil Lemurs and Dogs, 255 ; On 

 the Antelope-Deer of the Santa Fe 



Marls, 257 ; On some new fossil 

 Ungulata, 258 ; The Phyloo-eny of 

 the Camels, 261 ; The Geology of 

 New Mexico, 263, 269 ; On an ex- 

 tinct Vulturine Bird, 271 ; Report 

 on the Reptiles brought by Prof. 

 James Orton from the middle and 

 upper Amazon, and Western Peru, 

 329, 333 ; Note on the Ichthyology 

 of Lake Titicaca, 329, 333 ; On the 

 Batrachia and Reptilia obtained 

 during the exploration of Tala- 

 manca, Costa Rica, by Wm. M.. 

 Gabb, 359, 362 ; On the Reptilia 

 obtained by Dr. John M. Brans- 

 ford, U. S. N., during the survey 

 of Nicaragua of 1874, 359, 362 ; 

 On the Cretaceous Beds of the 

 Galisteo, 359 ; On the fossil re- 

 mains of Reptiles and Fishes from 

 Illinois, 360, 404 ; On a neAV genus 

 of Lophobranchiate Fishes, 439, 

 450; On the supposed Carnivora 

 of the Eocene of the Rocky Moun- 

 tains, 444. 



Correspondence, 519. 



Coues, E., Synopsis of the Geomyi- 

 dse, 124, 130 ; A critical review of 

 the North American Saccomyidre, 

 257, 272 ; Fasti Ornithologire Re- 

 divivi, No. 1, Bartram's Travels, 

 329, 338. 



Elections during 1875, 517. 



Frazer, P., Jr., Mineralogical notes, 

 10 ; On the microscopic structure 

 of Rocks, 16 ; On thin section of 

 the Traps of the Mesozoic Basin, 

 72 ; Notes on the character of the 

 Lower Silurian Slate at their Out- 

 crops, 76 ; On the Trias of York 

 Co., Pa., 123 ; On the structure of 

 the York Co. Yalley Limestone, 

 and on Micro-photography of Mine- 

 rals, 128 ; On the Mesozoic Red 

 Sandstone of the Atlantic States, 




552 



GENERAL INDEX. 



440 ; On Dialysis in Oyster Cul- 

 ture, 442 ; On Heat and Chemical 

 Action, 444. 



Gabb, W. M., On the Indian Tribes 

 of Costa Rica, 330 ; Genesis of 

 Cassidaria striata, Lam., 361 ; 

 Note on Mr. Bertboud's Paper, 

 3GG. 



Gentry, Tbos. G., Curious Anomaly 

 in History of certain Larva? of 

 Acronycta oblinita, Guenee, and 

 bints on Pbylogeny of Lepidoptera, 

 14, 24 ; On tbe Food and Nidifi- 

 cation of certain North American 

 Birds, 359. 



Gray, John Edward, Announcement 

 of death of, 124. 



Grote, A. R., On Orthosia ferrugi- 

 neoides, 328 ; On North American 

 Noctme, 412. 418. 



Hawkins, B. Waterhouse, Pelvis of 

 Hadrosaurus, 329. 



Henderson, Dr. A. A., Announce- 

 ment of death of, 124. 



Horn, G. H., Election as member of 

 the Council, 23. 



Kcenig, G. A., Notes on Mr. Ber- 

 tboud's Paper, 365. 



Lautenbacb, B. F., The Physiologi- 

 cal Action of Hemlock and its 

 Alkaloid, 367. 



Le Conte, J. L., The Geology of New 

 Mexico, 267. 



Leidy, Jos., On a Fungus in a Flam- 

 ingo, 11 ; Notes on some Parasitic 

 Worms, 14, 17; Remarks on some 

 Marine Rhizopods, 73 ; Remarks 

 on a local Fossil, etc., 120 ; Re- 

 marks on Elephant Remains, 121 ; 

 On a curious Rhizopod, 124 ; On 

 Psorosperms in a Mallard Duck, 

 125 ; On a Mouthless Fish, 125 ; 

 On Ouramceba, 126 ; On Mermis 

 acuminata, 400; Remarks on Rhi- 

 zopods, 413 ; Quercus heterophylla, 

 415. 



Lewis, Jas., Description of new spe- 

 cies of American land and fresh 

 water Shells, 334. 



Meehan, Tbos., On Increase of Power 

 in Plants to resist Cold, 18 ; Fruit- 

 ing of double Peaches, 268 ; In- 

 sectivorous Sarracenias ; The re- 

 lation of Light to Stomata, 270 ; 

 Influence of Nutrition on Form, 

 32!) ; The Drosera as an Insect 

 Catcher, 330 ; Variations in the 

 Stipular spines of Robinia Pseud- 

 acacia, 400 ; Observations on Lil- 



ies, 412 ; Natural Hybrids, Quer- 

 cus heterophylla, 437 ; Hybrid Jug- 

 lans, 439 ; Hybrids of P} r rus Sinen- 

 sis, 439 ; Quercus heterophylla, 

 465. 



Morch, O. A. L., A Descriptive Cata- 

 logue of Scalidre of the West India 

 Islands, 440, 449. 



Morrison, H. K., Notes on the Noc- 

 tuidse, with descriptions of certain 

 new T species, 14, 55 ; Notes on the 

 Noctuidre, with descriptions of cer- 



tain 



428. 



new species, No. ii., 412, 



Norris, Dr. G. W., Announcement 

 of death of, 73. 



Officers for 1876, election of, 516. 



Ogden, Jas., Description of a new 

 species of Bird of Paradise of the 

 genus Ptiloris, in tbe collection of 

 the Academy, 412, 451. 



Peirce, C. N, Remarks on Stepha- 

 noceros, 121 ; Living Organisms in 

 the Pulp Cavity of Teeth, 262. 



Report of Recording Secretary, 508. 



Report of Librarian, 505. 



Report of Curators, 508. 



Report of Recorder of Biological and 

 Microscopical Section, 514. 



Report of Recorder of Concbological 

 Section, 515. 



Ridgway, Robt., On Nisus Cooperi 

 (Bonaparte), and N. Gundlaehi 

 (Lawrence), 76, 78 ; Studies of the 

 American Falconidoe, No. ui., Mo- 

 nograph of tbe genus Micrastur, 

 359, 470 ; On tbe Buteonine sub- 

 genus Craxirex, Gould, 76, 89. 



Roberts, S. R., Compressed Peat, 

 333. 



Smith, S. P., Resignation as member, 

 12. 



Stearns, R. E. C, Descriptions of 

 new fossil Shells from the tertiary 

 of California, 440, 463. 



Whitman, W. E., Announcement of 

 death of, 360. 



Willard, D. D., Effects of Cold on 

 Iron, 19. 



Willcox, Jos., On Samarskite, 263 ; 

 On flight of Grasshoppers, 361 ; On 

 mineral localities in North Caro- 

 lina, 467. 



Williamson, I. V., Reception of 

 Library Fund from, 19. 



Wilson,, Wm. M., Resignation of, 

 271. 



Young, Chas. A., The occurrence of 

 Celestine in Blair Co., Pa., 127. 




Proa AcaiNatSaMa]875 



Plate HKV. 





! M 







Osphyolax p ellucidus, Cope. 





Proa Ac5iNat,ScJMal875. 



Plate 7SV * 



/ -'iifliiiiji 



mm 



lllustr 



Ptiloris Wilsonii, Ogden. 





Proa AcaANat,Sc.PhikL875. 



PL.XXVI 



' ' : - < 



dtei. byibsBartan Fund. 



Chapman on the Manatee. 





Proa Aca ANatSaPhi W 



Plate IXVII 



' Barton -fund. 



Stearns on Op alia. 









PROCEEDINGS 



OK THK 



TcstUmg of j\aittnd Science.'; 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



PART I. January, February, March, April, 1875. 



ri 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



Joseph Lbidt, M.D., <*bo W. Tryon.Jb., 



\Vm. S. Vaux, Edw.J. Nolan, M.D. 



W. S. W. RuSCHENBEBGER, M.D. 



H ' 



PHILA DELPH LA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCI E N C E S , 



Corner of Brond and Sansom Streets. 



1875. 



*"*<'i- 



.^~: 




PUBLICATIONS OF 



THE ACADEMY OE NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Seven volumes of the New Series of the Journal and Vol. VIII., Part I. 

 (Quarto) have been issued 1847 to 1874. The price per volume of four parts 

 is $10.00, or $3.00 per part, to subscribers; and to others, $12.50 per volume, or 

 $3.75 per part. Vol. 7 contains ''The Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and 

 Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mammalian Remains of North America." Illus- 

 trated with thirty plates. By Joseph Leidy, M.D., LL.D. 



The First Series of the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, 

 may be obtained at $40.00 to members, and to the public. $48.00. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 

 Is ii to 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be ob- 

 tained at $24.00 to members; and to the public, $30.00. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of 

 which fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870), may be obtained at $42.00, 

 to members, or $3.00 per volume separately ; and to the public, $3.75 per volume. 



The Third Series of the Proceedings, Illustrated, commencing Janu- 

 ary 1st, 1871, is published at $5.00 per annum, payable in advance, to members; 

 and to the public, $6.25. 



American Journal of Conchology, 1865-71. Seven vols. 8vo. Containing 

 2500 pages, illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, 

 besides about a thousand wood engravings. Published at $70.00. Price reduced 

 to $42.00 for the set. Separate volumes $10.00 each. 



BOOKS FOR SALE. 



The Academy have the following works for sale at the prices affixed : 



Description of Shells of North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas 

 Say, 1830-34. $10.50. 



Monograph of the Unionid^e of North America. By T. A. Conrad. 60 



uncolored plates, octavo, 1840. $8.00. 



Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca of the United States. With 

 Illustrations of all the Species. By George W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate 

 paper, with duplicate plates, colored and tinted, $20.00; colored edition, 

 $13.50; plain edition, $8.50. Only one hundred copies printed, which have 

 been mostly sold. 



MONOGE \I'II OF THE FuESTI-AVATER UNIVALVE MOLLUSCA OF THE UNITED STATES. 



By s. s. Haldeman, 1*40-44. With Continuation to 1871. By George W. 

 Tryon, Jr. 2 vols., with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, 

 $40.00; with colored plates, $2*5.00; with plain plates, $18.00. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 



Notice to Booksellers. All the Publications of the Society will be supplied 

 to Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent, on the prices charged to the public. 



Application to be made to Wm. S. Vaux, Chairman of the Publication Com- 

 mittee, 1702 Arch Street, or to the Librarian, at the Hall of the Academy, corner 

 of Broad and Sanson) Streets. 



f London, TRUBNER & CO., 



No. 60 Paternoster Row. 



Aoents, 



February, 1875. 



New York, WM. WOOD & CO., 



No. 61 Walker Street. 



. Salem, Mass., NATURALIST'S AGENCY. 




CONTENTS Continued. 



Joseph Leidy, M.D. On a curious Rhizo pod . 



Joseph Leidy, M.D. On Psorosperms in a Mallard Duck 



Joseph Leidy, M.D. On a Mouthless Fish 



Joseph Leidy, M.D. On Ouramceba 



Chas. A. Young. The Occurrence of Celestine in Blair Co., Pa 



Persifor Frazer, Jr. On the Structure of the York Co. Val 



ley Limestone and on Micro-photography of Minerals 

 Elliott Coues, M.D. Synopsis of the Geomyidje . 

 T. A. Conrad. Description of a new Fossil Shell from Peru 



(Plate 22) 



W. G. Binney. On the Jaw and Lingual Membrane of North 



American Terrestrial Pulmonata (Plates 1-14) 



l-JI 

 125 

 125 

 126 

 127 



128 



130 



139 

 140 




m 



CONTENTS. 



A 



18 

 19 

 16 



20 



Edward D. Cope. On the Transition Beds of the Saskatche- 

 wan District ...... 9 



Persifor Frazer, Jr. Mineralogical Notes . . . .10 



Edward D. Cope. The Herpetology of Florida . . .10 

 Joseph Leidy, M.D. On a Fungus in a Flamingo ... 11 

 Joseph Leidy, M.D. Notes on some Parasitic Worms . 14,11 



Edward D. Cope. The Extinct Batrachia of Ohio . . .16 

 Persifor Frazer, Jr. The Vertical Lantern and Mineralogy . 16 

 Thomas Meehan. On Increase of Power in Plants to Resist 



Cold 



Edward P. Cope. On Greensand Vertebrata .... 



D. D. Wileard. Effects of Cold on Iron .... 



Edward D. Cope. On the Homologies of the Sectorial Tooth 

 of Oarnivora ......... 



Thomas G. Gentry. Curious Anomaly in History of certain 

 Larva? of Acronycta oblinita, Guenee, and Hints on Phyto- 

 geny of Lepidoptera .24 



H. K. Morrison. Notes on the Noctnidae, with descriptions of 



certain new species 55 



Persifor Frazer, Jr. On thin Sections of the Traps of the 



Mesozoic Basin . . . . . . . .72 



Edward D. Cope. The Feet of Bathmodon .... 73 



Joseph Leidy, M.D. Remarks on some Marine Rhizopods . 73 

 Persifor Frazer, Jr. Notes on the Character of the Lower 



Silurian Slates at their Outcrops ..... 76 



Robert Ridgway. On Nisus Cooperi ^Bonaparte) and N. 



Gundlachi (Lawrence) 78 



Robt. Ridgway. On the Buteonine Subgenus Craxirex, Gould 89 

 Joseph Leidy, M.D. Remarks on a Coal Fossil, etc. . . 120 

 Joseph Leidy. M.D. Remarks on Elephant Remains . . 121 

 C. Newlin Peirce. Remarks on Stephanoceros . . . 121 

 II. C. Chapman. M.D. On the Disposition of the Great Omen- 

 tum in Cynoeephalus porcarius, etc. ..... 123 



Persifor Frazer, Jr. On the Trias of York Co., Pa. . . 123 



(Continued on p. 3.) 



S5v 






flQWef^^M 



PROCEEDINGS 



op TI!E 



loilnnn 4 jfatarkl mitnm 



j j 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



PART II. May, June, July, August, September, 



1875. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 

 Joseph Leipy, M.D., eo W. Tryon, Jr., 



Wm. S. Vaux, Edw. J. Nolan, M.D., 



W. S. W. RPSCHBSBEBGER, M.D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



Corner of Brond and Sansom Streets. 



18 7.'). 



^S-*^ 




PUBLICATIONS OF 



THE ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Seven volumes of the New Series of the Journal, and Vol. VIII. Part I. 

 (Quarto) have heeu issued 1847 to 1874. The price per volume of four parts 

 is $ 10.00, or $3.00 per part, to subscribers; and to others, $12.50 per volume, or 

 $3.75 per part. Vol. 7 contains "The Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and 

 Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mammalian Remains of North America." Illus- 

 trated with thirty plates. By Joseph Leidy, M.D., LL.D. 



The First Series op the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes octavo, 

 may be obtained at $40.00 to members, and to the public, $48.00. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 

 1841 to 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be ob- 

 tained at $24.00 to members; and to the public, $30.00. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of 

 which fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870), maybe obtained at $42.00 

 to members, or $3.00 per volume separately; and to the public, $3.75 per volume. 



The Third Series of the Proceedings, Illustrated, commencing Janu- 

 ary 1st, 1871, is published at $5.00 per annum, payable in advance, to members; 

 and to the public, $6.25. 



American Journal of Conchologt, 1865-71. Seven vols. 8vo. Containing 

 2500 pages, illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, 

 besides about a thousand wood engravings. Published at $70.00. Price reduced 

 to $42.00 for the set. Separate volumes $10.00 each. 



BOOKS JFOR SALE. 



The Academy have the following works for sale at the prices affixed : 



Description of Shells of North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas 

 Say, 1830-34. $10.50. 



Monograph of TnE Unionid^e of North America. By T. A. Conrad. 60 



uncolored plates, octavo, 1840. $8.00. 



MONOGRAPH OF THE TERRESTRIAL MOLLUSCA OF THE UNITED STATES. With 



Illustrations of all the Species. By George W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate 



paper, with duplicate plates, colored and tinted, $20.00 ; colored edition, 



$13.50; plain edition, $8.50. Only one hundred copies printed, which have 

 been mostly sold. 



MONOGRAPH OF TnE FRESn-AVATER UNIVALVE MOLLUSCA OF THE UNITED STATES. 



By S. S. IIaldeman, 1840-44. With Continuation to 1871. By George W. 

 Tryon, Jr. 2 vols., with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, 

 $40.00; with colored plates, $25.00; with plain plates, $18.00. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 



Notice to Booksellers. All the Publications of the Society will be supplied 

 to Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent, on the prices charged to the public. 



Application to be made to Wm. S. Vadx, Chairman of the Publication Com- 

 mittee, 1702 Arch Street, or to the Librarian, at the Hall of the Academy, corner 

 of Broad and Sansom Streets. 



{ London, TRUBNER & CO., 



No. 60 Paternoster Row. 



Agents, 

 February, is?:.. 



New York, WM. WOOD & CO., 



No. 61 Walker Street. 



Salem, Mass., NATURALIST'S AGENCY. 




367 

 400 



CONTENTSOontinued. 



B. F. Lautenbach, M.I). The Physiological Action of Hemlock 



and its Alkaloid .... 

 Joseph Leidy, M.D. On Mermis acuminata . [ 



Thomajs Meeiian. Variations in the Stipular Spines of Robinia 



pseudacacia 400 



H. C. Chapman, M.D. On the Anatomy of the Giraffe . .' 40 1 

 IT. C. Chapman, M.D. Post-mortem Examination of an Ele- 



P bant 402 



Edward D. Cope. On Fossil Remains of Reptilia and Fishes 



from Illinois .... 404 




-,t> 



<3f 



CONTENTS. 



Edward D. Cope. 

 Edward D. Cope. 

 Edward D. Cope. 

 Edward D. Cope 



W. G. Binney. On the Jaw and Lingual Membrane of North 

 American Terrestrial Pulmonata {Continued). (Plates 15- 



21) 



Edward D. Cope. On an Indian Kitchenmidden 



On Fossil Lemurs and Dogs 

 On the Antelope-Deer of the Santa F6 Marls 

 On some new Fossil Ungulata . 

 The Phylogeny of the Camels . 

 C. N. Peirce. Living Organisms in the Pulp Cavity of Teeth 



Joseph Willcox. On Samarskite , . 



Edward D. Cope. The Geology of New Mexico . . 263, 

 John L. Leconte, M.D. The Geology of New Mexico . 

 Thomas Meehan. Fruiting of Double Peaches 

 Thomas Meehan. The Relation of Light to Stomata 

 Edward D. Cope. On an Extinct Vulturine Bird . 

 Elliott Coues, M.D. A critical Review of the North Ameri- 

 can Saccomyidse 



A. R. Grote. On Orthosia ferrugineoides .... 



B. Waterhouse Hawkins. Pelvis of Hadrosaurus . 

 Thomas Meehan.. Influence of Nutrition on Form . 

 Thomas Meehan. The Drosera as an Insect Catcher 

 Wm. M. Gabb. On the Indian Tribes of Costa Rica 



S. R. Roberts. Compressed Peat 



James Lewis, M.D. Description of New Species of American 



Land and Fresh-water Shells. (Plate 23) . 

 Elliott Coues, M.D. Fasti Ornithologise Redivivi. No. 1. 



Bartrara's Travels 



Edward D. Cope. On the Cretaceous Beds of the Galisteo 

 Joseph Willcox. On the Flight of Grasshoppers . 

 Wm. M. Gabb. Genesis of Cassidaria striata, Lam. (Plate 24) 

 E. L. Berthoud. On the Occurrence of Uranium, Silver, Iron, 



etc. in the Tertiary Formation of Colorado Territory . 

 Geo. A. Konio. Note on Mr. Berthoud's Paper 

 Wm. M. Gabbi Note on Mr. Berthoud's Paper 



(Continued on p 



153 

 255 



255 

 257 

 258 

 261 

 262 

 263 

 269 

 267 

 268 

 270 

 271 



272 

 328 

 329 

 329 

 330 

 330 

 333 



334 



338 

 359 

 361 

 361 



363 

 365 

 366 

 3.) 






so 



PROCEEDINGS 



y 



OF THE 



cadmji of Natural mitnm 



OK 



PHILADELPHIA. 



PART III. October, November, December, 1875. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 

 Joseph Le.dy, M.D., eo W. Tkyon, Jr., 



Wm. S. Vaux, Edw. J. Nolan, M.D., 



W. S. W. RuSCHENBERGEK, M.D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



S. W. Corner of 19th and Race Streets. 



1876. 



Sg? 






PUBLICATIONS OF 



THE ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Seven volumes of the New Series of the Journal, and Vol. VIII. Part I. 

 (Quarto) have been issued 1847 to 1874. The price per volume of four parts 

 is $10.00, or $3.00 per part, to subscribers; and to others, $12.50 per volume, or 

 $3.75 per part. Vol. 7 contains "The Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and 

 Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mammalian Remains of North America." Illus- 

 trated with thirty plates. By Joseph Leidy, M.D., LL.D. 



The First Series of the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes octavo, 

 may be obtained at $40.00 to members, and to the public, $48.00. 



The First Series op the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 

 1841 to 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be ob- 

 tained at $24.00 to members; and to the public, $30.00. 



The Second Series op the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of 

 which fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870), maybe obtained at $42.00 

 to members, or $3.00 per volume separately; and to the public, $3.75 per volume. 



The Third Series of the Proceedings, Illustrated, commencing Janu- 

 ary 1st, 1871, is published at $5.00 per annum, payable in advance, to members; 

 and to the public, $6.25. 



American Journal of Conchology, 1865-71. Seven vols. 8vo. Containing 

 2500 pages, illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, 

 besides about a thousand wood engravings. Published at $70.00. Price reduced 

 to $42.00 for the set. Separate volumes $10.00 each. 



BOOKS FOR SALE. 



The Academy have the following works for sale at the prices affixed : 



Description of Shells of North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas 

 Say, 1830-34. $10.50. 



Monograph of the Unionidte of North America. By T. A. Conrad. 60 

 uncolored plates, octavo, 1840. $8.00. 



Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca of the United States. With 

 Illustrations of all the Species. By George W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate 

 paper, with duplicate plates, colored and tinted, $20.00 ; colored edition, 

 $13.50; plain edition, $8.50. Only one hundred copies printed, which have 

 been mostly sold. 



Monograph of the Fresh-water Univalve Mollusca of the United States. 

 By S. S. Haldeman, 1840-44. With Continuation to 1871. By George W. 

 Tryon, Jr. 2 vols., with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, 

 $40.00; with colored plates, $25.00; with plain plates, $18.00. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 



Notice to Booksellers. All the Publications of the Society will be supplied 

 to Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent, on the prices charged to the public. 



Application to be made to Wm. S. Vaux, Chairman of the Publication Com- 

 mittee, 1702 Arch Street, or to the Librarian, at the Hall of the Academy, corner 

 of Nineteenth and Race Streets. 



London, TRUBNER & CO., 



No. 60 Paternoster Row. 



Agents, ] New York, WM. WOOD & CO., 



No. 61 Walker Street. 



March, 1876. 



. Salem, Mass., NATURALIST'S AGENCY. 




CONTENTS Continued. 



Report of Recording Secretary 503 



Report of Librarian 505 



Report of the Curators 508 



Report of Recorder of Biological and Microscopical Section . 514 

 Report of the Recorder of the Conchological Section . . 515 



Officers for 1876 516 



Elections during 1875 517 



Correspondence . . . . . . . . . .519 



Additions to the Library . 522 



Index of Genera ......... 545 



General Index . . . .551 




CONTENTS. 



Edward P. Cope. On Fossil Reptllia and Fishes from Illinois 

 {Continued) ......... 



Thomas Meehan. Observations on Lilies .... 



Joseph Leidy, M.D. Remarks on Rhizopods .... 



Joseph Leidy, M.D. Quercus heterophylla .... 



Harrison Allen, M.D. On the Notation of Ribs . 



Aug. R. Grote. On North American Nocture .... 



H. R. Morrison. Notes on the Noctuidse, with descriptions of 

 certain new species. No. II. 



Thomas Meehan. Natural Hybrids ; Quercus heterophylla . 



Thomas Meehan. Hybrid Juglans ; Hybrids of Pyrus sinensis 



Henry C. Chapman, M.D. On Trichocephalns afflnis, Dies. 

 On the Castor Glands of the Beaver 



Persifor Frazer, Jr. On the Mesozoic Red Sandstone of the 

 Atlantic States 



Persifor Frazer, Jr. On Dialysis in Oyster Culture 



Persifor Frazer, Jr. On Heat and Chemical Action 



Edward D. Cope. On the supposed Carnivora of the Eocene 

 of the Rock}- Mountains 



Edward D. Cope. On a new Genus of Lophobranchiate Fishes. 

 (Plate 25) 



J. A. Ogden, M.D. Description of a new Species of Bird of 

 Paradise of the genus Ptiloris, in the collection of the 

 Academy. (Plate 25a) 



Henry C. Chapman, M.D. Observations on the Structure of 

 the Manatee. (Plate 26) 



Robert E. C. Stearns. Descriptions of new Fossil Shells from 

 the Tertiary of California. (Plate 27) . 



Thomas Meehan. Quercus heterophylla 



T. A. Conrad. Notes on the Genus Catillus, Brong. 



Joseph Willcox. On Mineral Localities in North Carolina . 



Harrison Allen, M.D. On the Effect of the Bipedal Position 

 in Man .......... 



Kobert Ridgway. Studies of the American Falconidse: Mon- 

 ograph of the Genus Micrastur 



(Continued on p. 



409 

 412 

 413 

 415 

 416 

 418 



428 

 437 

 439 



440 



440 

 442 

 444 



444 



450 



451 



452 



463 

 465 

 466 



467 



468 



470 

 3.) 



R2W 



'-^m 






i^MH 





