



PROCEEDINGS 



OP THK 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



or 



PHILADELPHIA. 



18 8 6. 



committee of publication: 



Joseph Leidy, M. D., Geo. H. Horn, M. D., 



Edw. J. Nolan, M. D., Thomas Meehan, 



John H. Redfield, 



Editor : EDWARD J. NOLAN, M. D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES,. 



LOGAN SQUARE, 



18 87. 




M^o^ 



Academy of Natural Scibnces op Philadelphia, 



February 2, 1887. 



I hereby certify that copies of the Proceedings for 1886 have been pre- 

 sented at the Meetings of the Academy as follows : 



March 23, 



April 6, 



May 18, 



June 8, 



June 1, 



J'une 8, 



June 15, 



June 22, 



July 13, 



August 24, 

 September 21, 



October 5, 



October 1 2, 



October 26, 

 November 2, 



January 4, 



January 25, 



February 1, 



1886. 

 1886. 

 1886. 

 1886. 

 1886. 

 1886. 

 1886. 

 1886. 

 1886. 

 1886. 

 1886. 

 1886. 

 1886. 

 1886. 

 1886. 

 1887. 

 1887. 

 1887. 



EDWARD J. NOLAN, 



Eecording Secretary. 



PHILAUKLPHIA : 

 W. P. KILDARK, PRINTER. 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 



With reference to the several articles contributed by each. 



For Verbal Communications see General Index. 



PAGE. 



Aaron, S. Frank. On some new Psocidse 13 



Arthur, J. C. History and Biology of Pear Blight 323 



Eigenmann, Carl H. A review of the American Gasterosteidse 233 



Everman , Barton W . and Seth E . 3Ieek. A revision of the American 



Species of the Genus Gerres 256 



Genth, F. A., Ph. D. On an undescribed Meteoric Iron from East 



Tennessee 360 



Hartman, W. D., M. D. New Species of Partula from the New 



Hebrides and Solomon Islands 30 



Heilprin, Angelo. Notes on the Tertiary Geology and Paleontology 



of the Southern United States 57 



Holmau, Lillie E. Observations on Multiplication in Amoeba} 346 



Koenig, Geo, A., Ph. D. On Schorlomite as a Variety of Melanite. .. 355 



Leidy, Joseph, M. D. Notices of Nematoid Worms 308 



McCormick, Calvin. The Inclusions in the Granite of Craftsbury, Vt. 19 



Meehan, Thomas. On the Fertilization of Cassia Marilandica 314 



Morris, Charles. Methods of Defense in Organisms 25 



Reverse Vision 302 



Osborn, Henry F., Sc. D. Qbservations upon the Upper Triassic 



Mammals, Droraotherium and Microconodon 359 



Rominger, C. On the Minute Structure of Stromatopora and its Allies, 39 



Vasey, George. Notes on the Paspali of Leconte's Monograph 284 



IVachsmuth, Charles, and Frank Springer. Revision of the Palaeocri 



noidea. Part III, Section II 64 







/ (f- 2- V / 





PROCEEDINGS 



Oy THB 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



4 



1886- 



\ > \^ 



^'~ 



January 5, 1886. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Twenty-six persons present. 



The death of J. B. Lippincott, a member, was announced. 



January 12. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 



Fifteen persons present. 



A paper, entitled " New Species of Partula from the New 

 Hebrides and Solomon Islands," by Wm. D. Hartman, M. D., was 

 presented for publication. 



On the Morphology of superimposed Stamens. At the meeting 

 of the Botanical Section on January 11, Mr. Thomas Meehan 

 remarked that Sachs teaches that stamens " must be considered 

 morphologically as foliar structures, and make it convenient to 

 term them Staminal Leaves," ^ and Dr. Asa Gray defines a stamen 

 to be " one of the elements or phylla of the androecium."^ So far 



I Text Book, English ed., p. 473. 

 2 



^ Structural Botany, p. 435. 




10 



PEOOEEDINQS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



[1886. 



as the speaker knew, no botanist regards the stamen as an axial 

 development, 3'^et there are occasional phenomena that seem to be 

 inexplicable on any other hypothesis. We have to admit that a 

 flower is not merely composed of modified leaves, but is a modified 

 branch ; the branch, arrested in its development, produces sepals 

 and petals in the order and in the place where leaves might have 

 been. Occasionally, however, the usual order of phyllotaxis seems 

 broken. Stamens will spring from the base of petals, and oppo- 

 site, where we looked for them to alternate ; and then for the 

 sake of consistency with the phyllal hypothesis, we have to 

 assume that one theoretic whorl has proved abortive, or that there 

 has been a multiplication of whorls, the superimposed one being 

 the extra. This introduction of an extra series, immediately over 

 the lower, not provided for in the original phyllotaxy, has, I 

 think, never been seen in the normal condition of the branch, 

 and it is difficult to conceive how this could occur under the 

 arrestation of axial growth that transforms the branch into a 

 flower. On the other hand, if we take the petal to be the analogue 

 of the leaf on the elongated branch, there seems no reason why 

 there should not be, theoretically, an axial bud to the petal ; and, 

 should this bud develop, it would be the superimposed stamen. 

 Branching and articulated stamens are frequent in those families 

 that have these organs spring, as it were, from an axial bud at 

 the base of the petal, as in a diminutive or suppressed secondary 

 branch we might expect them to do. 



The flowers of Mahernia verticillata Cav., a well-known Byttneri- 

 aceous plant from the Cape of Good Hope, common in cultivation, 

 which he exhibited this evening, seem to indicate that its super- 

 imposed stamens are really arrested branches. The genus is 

 separated from Hermannia chiefly by a cup-shaped gland at the 

 middle of the stamen (see Fig. 2). A comparison with the 



axial development of the inflores- 

 cence shows the stamen to be formed 

 on precisely the same plan as the bi- 

 flowered peduncle (Fig. 1). Really 

 the flowers are axillary a single 

 flower being produced from the axil 

 of each leaf. What appears to be 

 the " two-flowered jjeduncle " of 

 authors is simply a diminutive 

 branchlet. After forming one node 

 the longitudinal development be- 

 comes nearly arrested, and we have 

 only a shortly-pedicillate and slowly 

 developing flower, representing the 

 shorter of the two in the cut. The 

 bud in the axil of the bracteolate 

 leaflet, however, makes another and stronger attempt at growth, 

 and pushes up and over the one which terminates the first growth. 



2. 



Mahernia verticillata Cavanilles. 

 1. Two-flowered branchlet. 

 2. Stamen, magnified. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ' 11 



Iq the development of the stamen we read in the same lan- 

 guage. The lower leaf from which the short though main 

 peduncle in the inflorescence appears, is typified by the petal. 

 The common peduncle is represented by the filament, and the 

 cup-like gland at the middle stands for the bracteole of the bi- 

 ped icels. Here one of the flower buds probably the outermost 

 and weakest in the normal development wholly disappears, the 

 innermost becomes the upper part of the filament, the next node 

 may be at the connective, and then the theoretical floral leaves 

 proceed to form the anther. The incised bract is reduced to 

 the fringed cup-like gland from which the stamen proper springs. 



A close examination of the stamen gives some further facts in 

 support of this theoretical view. When a branchlet is produced 

 from a branch, it is necessarily more slender than the parent 

 branch. The upper half of the Maliernia filament is more slender 

 than the part beneath the gland, and, while the lower portion is 

 smooth and membranous, the upper is minutely hispid variations 

 which we might only expect in distinct internodes. Only for its 

 actual office in supporting and appearing in the direct line of the 

 stamen, we might critically call the lower portion a peduncle, and 

 the portion above the gland the stamen proper. 



And we may conclude, after a whole studj' of the subject, that 

 in many cases superimposed stamens are the development of 

 theoretical axial buds at the base of the petals, and not the result 

 of an interjection of an extra whorl of leaves for which there 

 would be no warrant in phyllotaxy. 



January 19. 

 The President, Dr. Leidt, in the chair. 

 Fourteen persons present. 



Mastodon and Llama from Florida. Prof. Leidy directed 

 attention to some fossil bones, being part of a collection now at 

 the Biological Department of the IJniversity, recently received 

 for examination from the Director of the U. S. Geoloa-ical 

 Survey. The collection was made by Mr. W. H. Dall, near Archer, 

 Florida, in a locality discovered by Dr. J. C. Neal, who had pre- 

 viously sent specimens to the Smithsonian Institution, and others 

 directly to Prof. Leidy for identification. Some of these speci- 

 mens had been brought to the notice of the Academy, as indicating 

 a species of rhinoceros and of a horse, to the former of which 

 the name of R. proterus was given, and to the latter that of Hip- 

 potheriuni ingenuum. In the collection recently received are 

 numerous bones and well-preserved teeth of the rhinoceros, mostly 

 limb bones, among which are fourteen well-preserved astragali. 



Some of the specimens exhibited are those of a mastodon, 

 apparently a previously undescribed form, although upwards of 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



a half dozen distinct species have been characterized as pertaining 

 to North America. An unworn crown of a last inferior molar 

 tooth resembles most nearly that of the Mastodon angustidens of 

 Europe, but is much larger. It has the same number of crests, 

 but the fifth is proportionately much more developed, being 

 divided into two lobes, about two-thirds the size of those of the 

 fourth crest. It is also much larger than in M. andium, and has 

 its lobes proportionately more robust, and is provided with a 

 well-produced external basal ridge. 



The following are comparative measurements of what appear 

 the most closely allied forms : 



Fore and aft. Transverse. 



Florida mastodon, . . 9 inches. 3^ 



M. angustidens, . . ^^ inches. 3^ 



M. andium, ... 8 inches. 3 



Small fragments of tusks indicate the possession of a band of 

 enamel, as in the M. angustidens. For the species, the name of 

 Mastodon (Trilophodon) floridanus was proposed. 



Among the fossils are several isolated teeth, and bones appar- 

 ently indicating three species of Llama. Judging from the 

 asti-agali, one was about the size of the existing South American 

 species ; another, of which there are five astragali, as large or 

 larger than the camel, and a third of intermediate size. The 

 measurements of the astragali are as follows : 



Large species. Length, 100 mm. Breadth, 70 mm. 

 Medium do. " 65 " " 42 " 



Small do. " 50 " " 35 " 



The three species may be distinguished by the names of 

 Atjchenia major, minor and minimus. 



Among the fossils is an astragalus of Megatherium. 



January 26. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty-four persons present. 



The following were presented for publication : 



" On a Giant Conorbis from the Oligocene Deposits of Florida," 

 by Angelo Heilprin. 



" Notes on the Tertiary Geology and Paleontology of the 

 Southern United States," by Angelo Heilprin. 



Roland D. Jones, M. D., was elected a member. 



Charles Wachsmuth, of Burlington, Iowa, and Alfred M. Mayer, 

 of Hoboken, N. J., were elected correspondents. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 13 



ON SOME NEW PSOCIDffi. 

 S. FRANK AARON. 



The several new species described here are in the collections of 

 the American Entomological Society. 



Caecilius subflavus. 



Almost entirely pale yellowish, or bright luteous, very sparsely 

 pilose. Antennae and palpi very pale, the former slightly fuscous 

 on the basal joints. Eyes black and yellow. Ocelli rufous brown, 

 small. On each side of the occiput, from and behind the eye, a 

 fuscous cloud or band, not joining in the middle. Thorax and 

 abdomen yellowish, the anterior lobe of the former with a faint 

 darker spot, and the latter with some fuscous markings ; appendages 

 brighter yellow. Feet pale, semitransparent. Wings hyaline, 

 very slightly clouded in the cells with pale luteous, and with a 

 nucleated darker spot directly below the posterior angle of the 

 pterostigraa. Veins luteous, and with the pterostigma, having a 

 few fuscous hairs, each springing from a black point. Length to 

 end of wings al5out 2-2'5 millim. 



Southern Texas. I collected this species from live oak trees 

 along the river bottoms ; found only two specimens, male and 

 female. The male is smaller, eyes black and large, the thorax 

 fuscous (probably discolored by drying), and the clouds in the 

 wings pale brown. 



Caecilius nubilis. Plate I, fig. 3. 



Pale luteous. Antennae and palpi entirely pale. Nasus some- 

 what indistinctly clouded. Ocelli dark brown. An irregular 

 maculate pale brown line on each side of the head, extending 

 from within the margin of the eyes to the posterior central 

 portion of the occiput, and a double maculate paler brown line 

 dividing the occiput and almost reaching the ocelli. Eyes pale, 

 with a yellowish green reflection. Thorax pale, the lobes clouded 

 with pale brown. Abdomen paler, the sutures, in part, brown. 

 Legs very pale, the last tarsal joint fuscous. Wings hyaline, 

 pterostigma the same, not more opaque ; veins brown, the larger 

 ones, on the basal half of the wing, paler, and on the apical half, 

 wherever the}^ join the margin of the wing, they are, together 

 with the marginal vein at that point, black, or deep fuscous, 




14 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



surrounded bj' a small pale brown clouded spot. Each cell in 

 the apical half of the wing has, midway between the veins, a pale 

 brown cloud, approximately taking the shape of its cell. At the 

 base of the pterostigma a small black spot, and another at the 

 junction of the cubitus and posterior margin. Length to end of 

 wings about 2 millim. 



Southern Texas. One specimen discovered while beating a 

 live oak thicket on the prairies. 



Csecilius impacatus. 



Pale yellow and brown. Antennae much shorter than wings, 

 fuscous, the basal joints and the first long joint in part, pale ; 

 palpi fuscous. Nasus pale, somewhat clouded with brown ; rest 

 of head j^ellow with brown markings, the space before and 

 directly around the separated golden colored ocelli, brown ; a 

 brown band on each side bordering the inside margin of the ej^es, 

 and another on each side of the dividing occipital suture, reach- 

 ing each posterior ocellus. E^^es brown and pale, about con- 

 colorous with the other parts. Mesothoracic lobes brown, deeper 

 colored anteriorl}^, the sutures pale j'ellowish ; rest of thorax pale 

 yellow and brown. Abdomen pale, the sutures brown, and brown 

 markings at the apex. Legs pale, the apical tarsal joint darker. 

 Wings clear hyaline, the seemingl}^ delicate veins pale brown. A 

 small black spot at the base of the pterostigma, and another at 

 the junction of the cubitus and posterior margin. Otherwise the 

 wings are entirely unmarked. About 3'5 millim. long to end of 

 wings. 



Penn. (near Philadelphia). I beat one specimen from the 

 branches of a beech, and on account of its constant activity found 

 it very diflScult to capture, almost hopelessly mashing it in doing 

 so. 



Fsocus campestris. 



Luteous and pale brown. Antennae about as long as the 

 wings, fuscous, the basal joints luteous ; palpi pale, fuscous on 

 the extreme apex. Nasus short, lineated with brown, and 

 sparsely pilose ; rest of head luteous, a brown irregular patch on 

 the margin of nasus before the ocelli ; a narrow black line 

 dividing the occiput ; faint fuscous maculose markings on each 

 side, within the margin of the eyes. Ocelli black ; eyes brown, 

 with paler reflections. Lobes of the thorax brown, the sutures 




1886.] NATURAL 80IEN0E8 OP PHILADELPHIA. 15 



luteous. Abdomen pale brown, the sutures and underneath in 

 part pale. Legs pale, femora somewhat yellowish. Wings per- 

 fectly hyaline, the veins pale brown, semitransparent luteous in 

 parts ; pterostigma, a narrow space directly beneath it, and the 

 indication of a small spot at the junction of the cubitus and pos- 

 terior margin, pale brown. Length to end of wing about 2'5 mill. 

 Southern Texas. One specimen taken from the live oak trees 

 that compose the small groves (motts) on the prairies. It is 

 allied to Ps. quietus, of Hagen (many specimens of which I also 

 found in the same locality, but in different situations, viz. : on 

 yellow berry bushes), but differs from that species in being con- 

 siderably smaller, in having the nasus shorter, not reaching the 

 ocelli, and by having fewer markings on the head. 



Psocus Leidyi. Plate I, fig. 2. 



Pale yellowish and black. Antennae nearly as long as the 

 wings, subfuscous, the basal joints pale ; palpi pale, the apical 

 joint subfuscous. Head pale yellowish, deepest <Sn the nasus, 

 which is faintly lineated with paler ; a large shining black 

 rounded spot in the middle of the upper part of the nasus, bor- 

 dering the suture ; beneath the antennae, on each side, a small 

 black spot ; ocelli black ; occiput with a brown band on the 

 dividing suture containing a double row of darker spots almost 

 reaching the ocelli. Eyes black. Lobes of the thorax black, 

 shining, the sutures and the rest of the thorax pale yellow. 

 Abdomen pale yellow, the sutures black, merging into a longitu- 

 dinal row of irregular spots on each side of the dorsum ; a large, 

 irregular, shining black patch on the dorsum of the apical seg- 

 ment, with a smaller black spot on each side below it. Abdo- 

 men beneath partly fuscous. Apical appendages, yellow and 

 black. Legs very pale, the base of the tibia with a black spot 

 beneath, and the tarsi subfuscous, the apical joint black. Wings 

 clear hyaline, veins mostly fuscous, that enclosing the pteros- 

 tigma yellow, and the veins enclosing the discoidal cellule, with 

 certain of their branches, in part pale yellowish and light brown. 

 Pterostigma subopaque, a small black spot at its base, a rounded 

 clouded brown spot posteriorly within its apex, and another 

 brown spot directly below and contiguous to its posterior angle ; 

 at the basal angle of the discoidal cell a large rounded brown 

 spot, and another smaller at the junction of the cubitus and 




16 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



inner margin. Hind wing immaculate. Length to end of wings 

 about 5 "5-6 mill. 



Rhode Island and Pennsylvania. From two specimens col- 

 lected many years ago by Dr. Joseph Leidy in Rhode Island, 

 and two specimens taken by myself near Philadelphia, on the 

 trunks of chestnut trees, where they appeared to be solitary. 

 For some time I had, somewhat doubtfully, supposed this species 

 to be Pa. canadensis, of Prov., until I received a letter from Dr. 

 Hagen, referring canadensis to the genus Elipsocus. 



Fsoous texauus. 



Pale yellow, with brown markings. Antennae longer than the 

 wings, fuscous, pale at the base. Nasus lineated with brown ; rest 

 of head above with irregular markings, viz. : a horseshoe spot 

 before the ocelli, an irregular line on each side from near the 

 base of the antennae to the ocelli ; a line of spots within the 

 margin of the eye, occiput with a line of spots on each side of the 

 dividing suture that come together just behind the ocelli. Eyes 

 brown, with a slight golden tinge ; ocelli black. Lobes of the 

 mesotiiorax clouded with fuscous, the sutures pale yellow. Abdo- 

 men marked with fuscous, and the anal appendages yellow. 

 Legs luteous, the apical tarsal joints fuscous. Wings hyaline, 

 the veins brown ; pterostigma less clear, a fuscous spot within 

 its apical half, and another just below it ; a fuscous band crosses 

 the entire wing in the middle, its outer margin reaching from the 

 base of the pterostigma to the junction of the cubital and post- 

 costal veins and the posterior margin, passing through the basal 

 angle of the discoidal cell. Hind wings hyaline, no markings. 

 Length to end of wings about 4 mill. 



Var. submarginatus. Plate I, fig. 1. 



Characterized b}^ having the fore wings with additional mark- 

 ings in the form of a submarginal fuscous band or cloud, 

 reaching from the second apical nervule to the posterior apical 

 extremity of the discoidal cell, and with a few somewhat 

 rounded spots between the nervures bordering upon and beyond 

 the discoidal cell. Length about 3 mill. Otherwise like texanus. 



Southern Texas. I took fifteen specimens of texanus and four 

 of var. submarginatus entirely by beating from yellow berry 

 bushes, black chaparral and live oak, over the prairies. It is 

 probably the commonest species in its locality. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



ECHMEPTERYX no v. gen. 



Head much as in Psocus, etc., the ocelli more widelj^ separated. 

 Antennffi with the two basal joints short and stout, the others rather 

 slender, each joint attenuated in its middle, swollen somewhat at 

 its apex. Dorsum of mesothorax entire, not divided into lobes, 

 extended into a projection posteriorly. Tarsi three-jointed. 

 Wings covered with scales of various forms. Apex of wings 

 pointed, and furnished somewhat densely with long hair. Neura- 

 tion peculiar, as shown in Plate I, figs. 5-6. 



Belongs to a group with Amphientomum and Perientomum, 

 probably most closely allied to Dr. Hagen's Amph. (Syllysis) can- 

 datum ; differs in the neuration. 



Eohmepteryx agilis. Plate I, figs. 4-9. 



Antennae much shorter than the wings, pale fuscous ; palpi 

 fuscous. Nasus fuscous, pilose ; rest of head somewhat pilose, 

 pale, with dark brown markings, a bent brown line across the 

 head, transversely, separating the anterior from the posterior 

 ocelli; before the ocelli, in the middle, some irregular brown 

 markings and bands (varying in diff'erent specimens), and between 

 the ocelli, connecting with the transverse line, two convergent 

 brown lines, extending to a brown patch on each side upon the 

 occiput ; on each side, within the margin of the eyes, another 

 brown spot, becoming a line, and also joining the occipital patches. 

 Ocelli black, each one within a small brown spot ; eyes brown and 

 golden yellow. Thorax brown, portions pale luteous, dorsum of 

 mesothorax dark brown, somewhat scaled, and very pilose. 

 Abdomen pale yellowish or luteous (in some specimens fuscous, 

 probably discolored by drying), with some brown markings. 

 Legs fuscous, somewhat paler or luteous ; tarsi luteous, fuscous 

 towards base. Wings fuscescent or smoky when denuded, becom- 

 ing hyaline towards the apex ; veins darker, semitransparent. 

 Scales mostly fuscescent, paler towards the base; when upon the 

 wing seemingly fuscous, and when thickly placed appearing almost 

 black ; other scales luteous upon the wing. These scales cause 

 the wing to be covered with black, fuscous and luteous patches. 

 The long apical hair mostly fuscous, luteous in patches. Hind 

 wings hyaline, slightly infuscated, no scales, the long apical hair 

 fuscous. Length to end of wing about 3 millim. 



Pennsylvania. I found this species on the trunks of beech 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



trees in a woods near Philadelphia. It is very active, quick and 

 difficult to secure. I believe it represents a group entirely new 

 to our fauna. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE I, 



Fig. 1. Psocus texanus var. submarginatus. 



2. " Leidyi. 



3. Ccecilius nubilus. 



4. Head. 



5. Denuded fore wing and thorax. 



6. " hind wing. 



7. Fore wing covered normally with scales. 



8. Tarsus. 



9. Forms of wing scales greatly magnified. 



of Echmepteryx agilis. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 19 



THE INCLUSIONS IN THE GRANITE OF CRAFTSBURY, VT. 



BY CALVIN Mccormick. 



The inclusions usually found in granites are observed to vary 

 to a marked extent in outline, structure and mode of occurrence. 

 Yery often they resemble imbedded fragments of older rocks. 

 They are usually darker than the including granite, and are either 

 circular or angular. When rounded they resemble an enclosed 

 pebble ; when angular, a fragment of slate or mica schist. They 

 sometimes merge into the surrounding rock by thrusting out 

 minute connective particles. They are generally finer in texture, 

 and hence less easily decomposed by atmospheric agencies than 

 the enclosing granite. 



A reference to the recorded observations on granitic inclusions 

 will doubtless assist materially in the study of the subject. In 

 1821, Dr. John Macculloch, in his "Geological Classification of 

 Rocks," p. 230, refers to inclusions as "irregular patches or veins 

 of a fine texture, spheroidal in arrangement, imbedded in coarse 

 granite." In 1858, Dr. Cavl F. Naumann refers to "pseudo-frag- 

 mentary concretions resembling sharp-angled fragments common 

 in crystalline siliceous rocks." (Lehrbuch der Geognosie, 2 Auf., 

 Band I, S. 422, 560; B. II, S. 203.) 



In the same year Dr. F. Hochstetter states that " the granites 

 of Billston Island contain micaceous fine-grained, dark, globular 

 enclosures." ( Jahrb. k. k. geolog. Reichsan., S. 285.) 



In 1863, Dr. F. V. Andrian, referring to the hornblendic granites 

 of Central Bohemia, mentions " innumerable fine-grained enclos- 

 ures, sharply segi'egated from the surrounding rock, varying in 

 size from -^^ to 4 inches in diameter. These enclosures contain 

 small quantities of hornblende crystals. From their abundance 

 and identity of constituents they were produced during the solidi- 

 fication of the rock mass, by a process of segregation, the exact 

 nature of which is unknown." (Beit. z. Geolog. d. Kaur. Tab. 

 Krei. Bohmen, S. 166.) 



In an article on the " Metamorphic Origin of certain Granitoid 

 Rocks and Granites in the Southern Uplands of Scotland," Prof. 

 James Geikie describes " nests of altered rock in a gray granite. 

 These are distinctly laminated, fine-grained, micaceous and 

 imparting a dark shade to the rock. They are irregular in shape, 




20 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



and scattered indiscriminately througliout the mass." (Geo- 

 logical Magazine, 1861, vol. 3, p. 533.) 



All of these observations relate to the external appearance of 

 these inclusions. No one of these writers has given us an intima- 

 tion of the microscopic or chemical nature of their internal 

 structure. In this respect Prof. J. A. Phillips has greatly sur- 

 passed his predecessors. 



In the Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society, vol. 36, p. 

 1, this author describes granites and their inclusions from numer- 

 ous British localities. The Cornwall granites at Lamorna, Zennor, 

 and Luxulyan contain numerous black patches, angular, fine- 

 grained and composed of quartz and mica. The granite of Shap 

 in Westmoreland encloses numerous well-defined, dark, round 

 patches, fine-grained and varying in size from i to 15 inches in 

 diameter. 



In Scotland, the Aberdeen granites (metamorphic, Haughton) 

 contain foliated, subangular inclusions of black mica. 



In Ireland, the granite of Newry (metamorphic, Hull; igneous, 

 Kinahan) aflfords inclusions which are apparently concretions. 

 The Mourne granite (eruptive) contains ovoid and angular, fine- 

 grained dark masses of mica and quartz. 



This author derives the following conclusions from these 

 observations: 



These granitic inclusions are of two distinct kinds. The first 

 is the result of an abnormal arrangement of the constituent minerals. 

 The second represents the enclosed fragments of other rocks. Of 

 the first, the outline is more or less ovoid, and they are essentially 

 a part of the including granite. The dark color is due to the 

 quantity of mica and hornblende. A second nodule contained in 

 the first, is indicative of concretionary origin. 



The formation of rounded inclusions in granites is believed to 

 be contemporaneous with the solidification of the mass, and 

 similar to that of the well known Napoleonite or orbicular 

 diorite of Corsica. 



Of the second class, the inclusions are irregular in outline, 

 schistose in structure, traversed by quartz veins or divided by 

 strings of granite. They are frequently unaltered, and are easily 

 recognized as fragments of gneiss, hornblendic and micaceous 

 rocks. 



In our own country, Professor Irving, in his report " On the 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 21 



Copper-Bearing Rocks of Lake Superior " (TJ. S. Geol. Survey, 

 vol. V, p. 125), refers to a hornblendic granite containing an 

 augitic core, and the entire mass showing minute flakes of 

 biotite. Mr. Clarence King, in his " Systematic Geology " (U. 

 S. Survey, p. 120), graphically describes the remarkable granitic 

 wall of EI Capitan, in the Yosemite Valley. This presents a 

 vertical face 3200 feet high, dotted with irregular cloud-like 

 masses and lenticular bodies, apparently segregations of the 

 component minerals (brilliant black hornblende, quartz, biotite 

 and orthoclase). This segregation he considers to be the result 

 of mechanical accidents. 



Having thus hastily glanced at observations relating to granitic 

 inclusions in other localities, we are better prepared to under- 

 stand those of the Craftsbury region. In the following consid- 

 erations we will observe, first, the including granite itself; 

 second, the included nodules, their external appearance and 

 internal structure, and the relation of the rock-mass to its 

 inclusions. 



This nodular granite consists of the usual ingredients of a 

 true granite quartz, feldspar and mica. The quartz is the most 

 abundant constituent. It possesses the properties of ordinary 

 quartz as to color, lustre and hardness. The feldspar is the 

 common orthoclase, every light in color even resembling the 

 quartz in this respect. The mica is the black variety (biotite), 

 and is sparingly scattered through the mass. It is in striking 

 contrast with the white components, and gives the rock the 

 appearance of syenite. But no hornblende is present, nor have 

 accessory minerals been observed. These constituents are dis- 

 seminated irregularly throughout the rock-mass, and since they 

 occur in small dimensions, this mass is fine-grained in texture. 

 According to Prof. H. A. Cutting, State Geologist of Vermont, 

 this granite occurs in place like other granites, but south of the 

 beds it consists of numerous large bowlders. 



Professor C. H. Hitchcock refers this granite to the Coos 

 group, which he places directly below the Lower Helderberg 

 division of the Upper Silurian. 



The Incluaions. These are spheroidal or elongated nodules of 

 biotite, from one-half to two inches in diameter, with the long 

 axis sometimes four inches. They ai-e more or less flattened, and 

 frequently consist of only a few plates. Their surface is smooth 




22 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



or sometimes plicated, the folds corresponding to the long axis. 

 Then they resemble a dried butternut, stripped of its epicarp. 

 Several convex scales may be detached from a flat specimen, 

 placed on edge, with a sharp blow of the hammer. 



Tliey are distributed irregularly through the rock-mass. In 

 some portions they are more abundant than in others. Some 

 parts of the Craftsbury beds are composed entirely of nodules, 

 slightl}' cemented by grains of quartz and mica. It appears 

 that there is no law as to their distribution. From this locality 

 to the Canadian line it is stated that these inclusions are very 

 rare, in the beds extending over this area of about forty miles. 

 (C. H. Hitchcock, Geology of Vermont, vol. 2, pp. 564, 721). 



The Internal Structure. But few microscopic sections of these 

 nodules have been prepared. In studying the lithology of New 

 Hampshire, Mr. G. W. Hawes, formerly of the Sheffield Scientific 

 School, made a section of the centre of a nodule, and observed 

 that the biotite is dichroic, that a small portion of muscovite and 

 some quartz are present. No nucleus was apparent, but a con- 

 centric arrangement of the mica scales, which he considered to 

 be the basis of the formation of the inclusion. (Geolog}^ of New 

 Hamp., vol. 3, pt 4, p. 203.) On account of the limited observa- 

 tions of this peculiar formation, I attempted to prepare some 

 sections of the internal structure. Of these, two were through 

 the centre, and parallel to the longitudinal axis. These show 

 that the biotite is in concentric layers, with grains of quartz scat- 

 tered irregularly through it. No feldspar is present. These 

 layers of biotite are made up of flakes or long bands. Along the 

 thin edges they are of a light brown color, while the thicker 

 masses are dark. The flakes are of different sizes respecting 

 length and width. They are arranged very much like the scales 

 on a fish. The biotite constitutes the greater part of the surface. 

 It forms fully four-fifths, and doubtless even more in some cases. 

 The quartz is remarkably translucent and \ery distinctly vitre- 

 ous. During the grinding process, frequent observations with a 

 lens indicated that the quartz increases in abundance towards 

 the centre. 



Several transverse sections parallel to the lateral axis were 

 attempted, but the brittle nature of the biotite prevented success. 

 This, it is thought, may be accomplislied by hardening a specimen 

 in shellac dissolved in alcohol. Sections through other portions 

 of the nodule denote the laminated structure of the biotite. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



The Relation of the Nodule to the Rock Mass. The line of 

 contact between the inclusion and the including rock is not always 

 distinct. But it is possible to extract the former with compara- 

 tive ease. The remaining cavity, however, is usually lined with 

 biotite, which, adhering to it rather than to the nodule, indicates 

 that the inclusion was originally formed from the rock mass. 

 Sections across this line of contact, show considerable quartz and 

 a small quantity of biotite. These minerals are apparently inter- 

 locked, further denoting that the biotitic mass belongs to the 

 surrounding rock. 



General Conclusions. First, concerning the nodules : These 

 are not micaceous rolls, for their structure internally shows dis- 

 tinct bands. ^ or are they concretions, for no nucleus is observed. 

 But they are masses of flakes of biotite cemented with quartz, 

 abnormally segregated from the original granitic mass. These 

 flakes, although originally concentric, were afterwards arranged 

 radially, hence producing the nodular form. (Dr. Zepharowich, 

 Mineralogical Lexicon, Austria, p. 59.) 



Second, concerning the granite : The presence of these nodules 

 indicates the igneous origin of the granite. Were the original 

 mass in aqueous solution, the material would have been evenly 

 distributed, and the nodules could not have occurred. Were it 

 of metamorphic origin, the nodules would scarcely be so uniform 

 in outline and microscopic appearance, but would be more or less 

 contorted. These nodules denote a state of fluidity of the entire 

 mass which resulted from igneous agencies. While in this fluid 

 condition, the nodules first formed, and were enclosed by the 

 surrounding mass. This is sustained by the wrinkled and folded 

 surface of the nodules, which doubtless was occasioned by the 

 contraction of the surrounding mass as it cooled. 



The fact that biotite is a frequent constituent of igneous rocks, 

 has its influence in sustaining the igneous origin of this granite. 

 This is also sustained by the investigations of local phenomena. 

 (Geology New Hamp., vol. 1, p. 538.) 



The inclusions at Craftsbury are unique in type, diff'ering from 

 those of all other localities. 



These observations ma}' be modified by further investigations, 

 but it is hoped that they maj'^ elicit an extended interest in the 

 subject. 



Appendix. Since the preceding pages were written, my atten- 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



tion was directed to inclusions in certain flaggings in Philadel- 

 phia, on Chestnut Street above Third Street, and on Filbert Street 

 above Thirteenth Street. It was desirable to trace the localities 

 of these rocks. 



By the assistance of the City Commissioner of Highways, and 

 the dealer who furnished the stone for the Chestnut Street pave- 

 ment, the locality was ascertained to be Connecticut or Maine. 



The doubt in the case arises from the fact that the stone was 

 furnished about twenty-five years ago, no record of its locality 

 was kept, and the dealer is unable to recall with any degree 

 of certainty the exact location. The granite in external charac- 

 ters closely resembles that of New London, Conn., as well as that 

 of Sullivan, Maine. Hence this feature is compai-atively valueless 

 in the determination. But the resemblance of the inclusions to 

 those in the Sullivan granite, favors the view that this location is 

 the home of the Chestnut Street flags. 



These inclusions are not numei'ous, nor regular in size and 

 outline. They are made up of biotite, are elongated elliptically, 

 frequently terminating in acute points. The length is eight or 

 ten inches, and the width two or three inches. These masses 

 blend into the surrounding rock, without affording any distinct 

 line of separation, hence suggesting that their extraction would 

 involve considerable difficulty. That these were produced in a 

 way similar to those of Craftsbury, is apparent from external 

 observations, and doubtless sections of the internal structure 

 will sustain this supposition. 



No evidence was obtained concerning the locality of the Filbert 

 Street rock. Its worn condition denotes a long period of service. 

 These inclusions tend to detract from the value of granites, as 

 they afford an easy access for destructive agents (moisture, frost, 

 heat), and hence such granites having a limited use, are not apt 

 to be seen along public thoroughfares. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 25 



METHODS OF DEFENSE IN ORGANISMS. 

 BY CHAS. MORRIS. 



Some weeks ago I presented a paper on this subject to the 

 Academy. I wish to add a few suggestions to the considerations 

 there taken, and particular!}^ to speak of the evolution of the 

 spOnge, considered from the point of view of defense. As is 

 well known, the sponge type of organism is one that it luis 

 proved difficult to classify, since it only partly conforms to the 

 type of the Coelenterates, while it is widely divergent from any 

 other animal type. I may briefly point out these divergent 

 features. 



In all other animals above the Protozoans, except those para- 

 sitic forms which are destitute of an intestine, the mouth is a 

 single aperture, which constitutes the main opening into the 

 boiy. In the sponge type this single aperture is replaced by a 

 multitude of minute openings, in connection with a single large 

 anal opening. In one other respect the sponge is different from and 

 more simplified than other animal types. Its digestion is 

 entirely cellular. It has developed no organ answering to the 

 stomach of other types. 



The sponge is, moreover, destitute of any organs of offense or 

 defense. Its nearest relatives, the polyps, have their tentacles 

 and thread-cells, in connection with a single aperture, which is 

 both oral and anal in function, and with a digestion which is 

 intermediate between the cellular and the stomachal methods, 

 and can be properly classed with neither. 



The method of obtaining food, by the aid of water currents, is 

 not peculiar to the sponge. It may be found in other animal 

 types, such as the bivalve mollusks, the Tunicata, Amphioxus, 

 etc. But in the sponge it is far more simplified than in these 

 higher forms. In the case of the mollusks, the water current is 

 confined to the branchiae, and only its food particles are taken 

 into the intestine. In the Tunicates and in Amphioxus respira- 

 tion is intestinal, but the water current is confined to the 

 branchial half of the intestine, while its food particles enter the 

 stomachal half, where they undergo digestion. In the sponge 

 the water currents permeate every portion of the body, and 

 respiration, as well as digestion, is a function of the separate 

 3 




26 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



cells. Thus the most interior regions of the organism are 

 visited by this water current and its contents. 



Of all animal types, therefore, that of the sponge is least pro- 

 tected by defensive appliances. There is nothing in the make-up 

 of the organism to prevent enemies from entering and penetrat- 

 ing to every portion of the body. They cannot be confined to 

 an intestinal tube, and exposed to the action of its digestive 

 juices, as in most organisms, but the whole interior of the body 

 is open to assault. 



Yet the evolution and long-continued existence of the sponge 

 type is evidence that it has possessed some defensive adaptation. 

 This adaptation, in its original phase at least, I take to be the 

 peculiar sj^stem of inhalent and exhalent apertures. It is evident 

 that the entrance of the water currents at the large aperture 

 would greatly facilitate the entrance of the foes of the sponge, 

 since they would be drawn from a distance and carried into the 

 body on these currents. As it is, the currents enter at minute 

 apertures, only adapted to the passage of microscopic food par- 

 ticles, and closing completel}'^ when not in use. The spicules 

 may also act defensively, to prevent any larger creature from 

 forcing an entrance at these oral apertures. 



On the other hand, there is a strong current of outflow from 

 the large aperture, well adapted tO' drive away the foes of the 

 sponge, unless possessed of considerable swimming power. In 

 this fact we seem to have an explanation of the peculiar organi- 

 zation of the sponge. The primeval ancestors of the Coelen- 

 terates probably developed in two directions. In one t}' pe tenta- 

 cles and thread-cells appeared, the oral opening was defended, 

 and the internal cavity took on the function of an incipient 

 stomach. In the other type the simple gastrula form was 

 retained, and water was drawn in by ciliary action through pores 

 in its cellular wall, and discharged at the mouth opening, after 

 yielding its food particles to the individual cells. Thus a multi- 

 tude of minute currents were combined into a single protective 

 outflowing current of considerable strength. 



This formation seems beneficial to the sponge from an aggres- 

 sive as well as from a defensive point of view. The extension of 

 the oral apertures over the whole surface of the body very con- 

 siderably increases the water space from which food particles are 

 drawn in, and thus may add materially to the food supply. As 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



the microscopic creatures which serve the sponge for food are 

 somewhat thinly disseminated, this extension of the space swept 

 hy the inflowing currents is certainly an advantage. 



These remarks, however, are intended to apply principally to 

 the primitive sponge. In the earliest stage of this type of 

 organism it probably lacked the spicular and fibrous defenses 

 now possessed, and was but a step above the simple gastrula. At 

 this remote era, however, it is probable that muscular action had 

 not yet been evolved, and that cilia formed the only agents of 

 animal motion. Against creatures swimming by aid of cilia the 

 water current of the sponge must have been fully efficacious as a 

 defense. The development of the fibrous framework, and of 

 the pointed spicules, was probably a subsequent adaptation to 

 meet new dangers, after muscular organs of motion had been 

 evolved. At present prowling animals have no difficulty in 

 making their way to the interior of the sponge. The spicule is 

 now probably its most efficient defense, and the continued exist- 

 ence of the sponge tj^pe shows that it is sufficiently defended 

 against such animals as might seek to prey upon its protoplasmic 

 substance. 



I may oflTer, in conclusion, a further application of the hypoth- 

 esis presented in my former paper. The interaction of attack 

 and defense presents a feature of distinction between animals and 

 plants, in addition to those usually recognized. This distinction 

 I ma}^ briefly indicate. 



If we consider the defensive appliances of animals from a 

 general point of view, they may be reduced to two categories. 

 They are either mechanical or motor. These exist together, but 

 to the extent that the one method is developed, the other remains 

 undeveloped. If we take such an animal as the oyster, for 

 instance, we find that its defense is almost wholly mechanical. 

 Its only defensive motion is one of withdrawal within the shell. 

 If we take man, the defence is almost wholly motor. Scarcely a 

 trace of mechanical defense exists. In my former paper I spoke 

 also of mentality as a defensive attribute. But the defensive 

 action of the mind yields really a motor effect. It simply pro- 

 duces more intricate and diversified motions, both in attack and 

 defense, than those displayed by unintelligent animals. 



If we examine the whole range of the animal kingdom, we find 

 every phase of combination of mechanical and motor defense, the 




28 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



motion growing more sluggish as the defensive avmor grows 

 more efficient. But in the whole kingdom, motion persists as one 

 of the defensive agencies. No animal exists without some power 

 of motion, by whose aid it withdraws or otherwise escapes from 

 danger. 



In the plant kingdom, on the contrary, no defensive motion 

 exists. Mechanical defense exists alone. This does not apply to 

 those minute swimming organisms which lie near the root of the 

 plant and animal kingdoms. But in all the higher plants no 

 motion exists, so far as I am aware, that is useful as a protection. 

 Thus the possession of protective motions by all animals, and 

 the lack of them by all plants, serve as a point of distinction 

 between the two kingdoms. 



In regard to aggressive motions, this rule does not so fully 

 hold good. All animals have aggressive motions. Nearly all 

 plants are destitute of them. Yet a few plants possess them. We 

 have instances of aggressive motions in the case of the creeping 

 Fungi, and of the Insectivorous plants. Yet apart from these 

 cases, the plant kingdom seems devoid of motions useful either 

 for attack or. defense, and trusts wholly to mechanical appliances. 

 With the mechanical, however, must be included chemical appli- 

 ances, as in the case of poisonous or disagreeable juices. 



One more query remains. Wh}^, in the early days of the animal 

 kingdom, as known to us, was there such a marked tendency to 

 trust to mechanical defense, while in the later era the tendency 

 has been towards motion as the main protective agent ? If we 

 consider the early conditions of animal life, this is not difficult 

 to comprehend. There is every reason to believe that the various 

 organs of animals were very slowly evolved. In a former com- 

 munication I have advanced the h3qiothesis that the early animals 

 were for a long time naked forms, parti}', at least, through lack 

 of the evolution of glands necessary to produce hard coverings. 

 These early animals also moved by means of cilia only, if we can 

 trust the evidences from embryology, and from the lower existing 

 forms. The development of nerves and muscles was a very slow 

 process. The evolution of a form and of swimming organs giving 

 high efficiency to muscular action, was probabl}^ much slower. 

 The early animals possessed of muscles had probably a very 

 inefficient motor apparatus, and were very sluggish in their 

 movements. With the development of armor-producing power, 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 29 



therefore, this seems to have been very generally employed as a 

 defense of the sluggish against such swifter moving carnivorous 

 animals as may have arisen. One great superiority of the verte- 

 brate type has alwa3's been the superior suitability of its form 

 and motor organs to swift movement, and it seems quite likely 

 that the great variety of mechanically defended lower forms in 

 the earl}' fossiliferous beds, is due to the existence of swift- 

 moving antique vertebrates, which were themselves nearly or 

 quite destitute of hard parts, capable of preservation. Though 

 a later " struggle for existence," between vertebrates themselves, 

 caused the weakest and least active of these to develop armor, 

 yet it was succeeded by a general tendency in this type of life to 

 discard mechanical defenses, and trust to motion for protection. 

 The same has been the case with the actively aggressive members 

 of some of the lower tj^pes, such as the higher mollusks, which 

 have thrown off their armor, and developed other defensive appli- 

 ances. 



Throughout the whole history of the organic realm one prin- 

 ciple holds good. There has been a continued evolution of more 

 rapid and varied powers of motion. To this, every advance in 

 organization has tended, while the hindrances to speed and flexi- 

 bility have been successively discarded by the higher forms of 

 life. In correspondence with this has been the development of 

 mentality, since mentality, as outwardly displayed by the animals 

 below man, is indicated by a greater intricacy of motions, in 

 combination with ambush and concealment. For the attainment 

 of the highest possible speed and strength, little mentality was 

 requisite, and brain development is manifested rather by intricac}'- 

 than by speed of motion or rather by that well-ordered correla- 

 tion of rest and diversified motion suited to the best good of 

 the organism. Yet we must regard mentality as rather the effect 

 than the cause of motor evolution. Probably the power of diver- 

 sified motion appeared first, while the exercise of any new power 

 of this kind acted as an agent in the development of the brain. 

 In other words, the evolution of the brain is a consequence of 

 that of the body not the reverse. 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY Of [1886. 



NEW SPECIES OF PARTUL&. FROM THE NEW HEBRIDES AND SOLOMON 



ISLANDS. 



BY W. D. HARTMAN, M. D. 



The new species of Partula herein described, are almost all of 

 one type. The shells of most species from the Solomon Islands 

 are thin, and more or less translucent, with numerous waved spiral 

 strife, a compressed umbilicus, a moderately reflected and concave 

 lip, and (when viewed through a glass) the embryonic whorls of 

 the apex are rounded or dome-shaped. Like other Partulte, indi- 

 viduals of the different species are often variable, especiall^'^ in 

 the greater or less obliquity of the aperture. These thin shells 

 possess so many features in common, that it is often difficult, in 

 the absence of illustrations, to frame a diagnosis sufficiently dis- 

 tinctive to enable the reader to recognize a species from the de- 

 scription alone. I have embraced the present opportunity to 

 figure a few species not heretofore delineated, amongst which is 

 the lost species, P. rufa, Lesson. 



This shell has been found on the banks of the Leila River, 

 Chabroul Harbor, Uhalan or Strong's Island, by Capt. Brazier, C. 

 M. Z. S. I have seen three examples. It is very distinct from P. 

 Guamensis, Pfr., with which it has been confounded ; the latter is 

 an arboreal species from Ponape, one of the Caroline group. 

 P. rufa, Less., is a much smaller species than P. Guamensis^ Pfr., 

 which it resembles in color, contour and texture. Farther explo- 

 rations in the New Hebrides and Solomon Islands will doubtless 

 reveal many new species of Partula. 



P. similaris, nobis. Plate II, fig. 1. 



Shell dextral, oblong ovate, thin and translucent; whorls 5, 

 convex, spire half the length, oblique lines fine and decussated 

 by coarse spiral striae, umbilicus compressed ; aperture rounded 

 ovate ; lip white, color yellowish white, with the apex very pale 

 rose. Length 17 mill., diameter 9 mill. ; length of aperture 6 mill., 

 diameter 4 mill. 



Hab. Woodlark Island, near New Guinea (Capt. Brazier). 



Ohs. For size and contour this shell is near P. Car-teriejisis, 

 Pfr. ; it is thinner and less solid, with a more rounded aperture, 

 and concave lip. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



P. perlucens, nobis. PLate 11, fig. 2. 



Shell dextral, oblong, ovate, very thin and pellucid ; whorls 5, 

 well rounded, bod^' -whorl somewhat inflated, spire more tlian half 

 the length. Suture well impressed, spiral striiE numerous and 

 fine, umbilicus compressed, nperture ol)l ([Ue, round oval, lip 

 white, concave and moderately reflected. Color a very pale 

 green. Length 18 mill., diameter 9 mill.; length of aperture 

 9 mill., diameter 4 mill. 



Hab. Uji or Golfe Island^ Solomon Islands (Arboreal). 



Obs. Compared with P. similaris, herein described, it is a 

 larger, thinner and more inflated shell. Capt. Brazier sent me 

 two examjDles, the smaller measured : length 14 mill., diameter 8 

 mill. 



P. incurvum, nobis. Plate II, fig. 3. 



Shell dextral, ovate, elongate, thin and translucent, spire 

 slender, elongate, more than half the length; whorls 5, rounded, 

 suture impressed, spiral striae numerous, subperforate, with the 

 umbilicus slightly compressed, columella slightly nodose. Aper- 

 ture ovate, very oblique, lip white, moderately reflected and 

 concave. Color yellowish white. Length 18 mill., diameter, 

 8 mill. ; length of aperture t mill., diameter 4 mill. Arboreal. 



Hab. Rubiana Island, Solomon Islands (Capt. Brazier). 



Obs. This is a distinct species, with a very oblique aperture, 

 giving the shell a bent appearance at the middle. 



P. regularis, nobis. Plate II, fig. 4. 



Shell dextral, ovate elongate, thin and translucent; spire half 

 the length; whorls 5, rounded, suture impressed, spiral striae 

 numerous, waved and very fine, umbilicus compressed, aperture 

 direct, lip white, concave and slightly expanded, margins of the 

 peritreme connected by a very thin callus. Color yellowish 

 white. Length 1*7 mill., diameter 8 mill.; length of aperture 

 8"5 mill., diameter 5 mill. Arboreal. 



Hab. Savu, Galeria Island, Solomon Islands (Capt. Brazier). 



P. minor, nobis. Plate II, fig. 5. 



Shell ovate, somewhat oblong, tliin and feebly translucent, 

 spire as long as the aperture ; whorls 5, slightly rounded, suture 

 impressed, oblique striae coarse, spiral striae obsolete, umbilicus 

 compressed, lip white, flat and moderately reflected, aperture 

 direct, margins of the peritreme connected by a stout callus. 




32 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



Color a soiled white, apex rufous. Length 16 mill., diameter 

 8 mill. ; length of aperture 6 mill., diameter 3^ mill. 



Hab. Erromango Island, Solomon Islands. 



Obs. I possess two examples of this species from Dr. Cox, of 

 Sydney, Australia. They were collected by Dr. Turner at the 

 above island ; it differs from Carteriensis especially in the 

 margins of the peritreme approximating more closely than in 

 that species. 



P. corneola, nobis. Plate II, fig. 6. 



Shell dextral, ovate conic, smooth and polished, corneous, 

 translucent; whorls 5, slightly rounded, spire half the length, 

 spiral striae numerous, waved and very fine, umbilicus compressed, 

 aperture ovate, with a rounded pillar tooth, and a small tubercle 

 on the columella, lip thick, white, and almost flat, with the 

 margins connected by a callus. Color pale horn, with the apex 

 pale rufous. Length 17^ mill., diameter 9 mill. ; length of 

 aperture 7 mill., diameter 4 mill. Smaller example : Length, 

 16 mill. ; diameter, 8 mill. 



Eab. Eimeo, Morea? (Mr. Geale). 



Obs. Several years ago I obtained two examples from Mr. 

 Geale, who accompanied Hugh Cuming. This shell is not found 

 in the British Museum, or the Jardin des Plantes, and I have 

 only met with it twice in private collections. It differs from all 

 the Marquesas species with which I am acquainted, and it pos- 

 sesses the dome-like apex of the Solomon Island group. 



P. Coxi, Angas MS. Plate II, fig. 7. 



Shell dextral ovate, slightly elongate, thin and translucent 

 whorls 5, rounded, suture impressed, oblique lines of growth fine 

 and sparsely decussated by waved spiral striae ; aperture ovate 

 direct, umbilicus compressed, lip reflected, white and concave 

 color 3'ellowish white; apex slightly rufous. Length 15 mill, 

 diameter 7 mill.; length of aperture 5 mill., diameter 3 mill. 



Hab. Ysabel Island, Solomon Islands (Capt. Brazier). 



Obs. This shell was collected at the above locality by Captain 

 Brazier, and he has kindly given me a number of examples. In 

 1867, Dr. Cox sent me examples of P. pellucida, Pse., for Coxi. 

 These were pronounced micans, Pfr., at the British Museum, 

 causing the error in my Bibliographical Catalogue. F. micans 

 is a much larger shell. 




188G.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHiA. 83 



According to the observations of Capt. Brazier, P. pellucida 

 and P. Coxi are arboreal species. My examples were pronounced 

 Goxi by Mr. Angas ; it is a larger shell than P. pellucida. 



P. Woodlarkiana, nobis. Plate II, fig. 8. 



Shell dextral, ovate, thin and translucent ; bodj'-whorl inflated ; 

 "vvhorls 5, rounded, suture impressed, lines of growth decussated 

 by numerous waved spiral strire, spire short, columella slightly 

 arcuate, wide and smooth, compressl}^ umbilicate, aperture round 

 ovate, lip concave, white and moderately reflected ; color yel- 

 lowish, apex very pale rose. Length 19 mill., diameter 11 mill.; 

 length of aperture 9 mill., diameter 6 mill. 



Hah. Woodlark Inland near New Guinea (Capt. Brazier). 



P. hastula, nobis. Plate IT, fig. 9. 



Shell dextral, elongate, oval, hastulate, thin and pellucid ; 

 spire acute, half the length; whorls 5, slightly rounded, suture 

 moderately impressed. Oblique strife prominent, and crossed 

 by numerous minute spiral lines. Umbilicus compressed, aper- 

 ture oval, more or less oblique, margins of the peritreme con- 

 nected by a very thin deposit, lip white, reflected and concave. 

 Color 3^ellowish. Length 19 mill., diameter 9 mill.; length of 

 aperture 8 mill., diameter 4 mill. 



Hah. Erromaago Island, Solomon Islands. 



Ohs. I am indebted to Captain Brazier for several examples. 

 He informs me that Mr. Pease considered it identical with P. 

 spadicea, Rve., from which it is certainly distinct ; it is more 

 elongate and thinner than any known species from this island. 



P. eburnea, nobis. Plate II, fig. 10. 



Shell dextral, ovate, very elongate, solid. Spire half the 

 length ; whorls 5^, oblique striae coarse, spiral strise obsolete, 

 aperture a wide oval, more or less oblique ; umbilicus compressed. 

 Columella wide above, lip reflected, white and flat, margins of 

 the peritreme connected by callus. Color ivory-white. In fresh 

 examples sometimes the whole shell is tinged with pale rose. 

 Length 26 mill., diameter 13 mill.; length of aperture 11 mill., 

 diameter 6 mill. Hab. unknown. 



Ohs. Captain Brazier sent me two examples of this shell, 

 given him by a friend ; it is larger and more solid than Pfeifferi^ 

 Crosse. 




si iROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY Of [l88d. 



P. proximS,, iaobis. Plate IT, fig. 11. 



Shell dextral, thin, ovate, very elongate, spire half the length ; 

 whorls 5^, surface smooth, oblique lines of growth tine; spiral 

 strise obsolete, aperture ovate, oblique, umbilicus compressed ; 

 columella wide above, and slightly nodose, lip white and slightly 

 concave, margins of the peritreme connected by a thin callus ; 

 color white. Length 23, width 10 ; length of aperture 12, width 

 6 mill. 



Hab. Vanna Levu Island, Banks Islands, near the New 

 Hebrides. 



Obs. Capt. Brazier sent me two examples (weatherbeaten) col- 

 lected at the above island by himself in 1865 ; it has the outline 

 of eburnea, nobis, but is a smaller, thinner and more slender shell. 



f P. pyramis nobis. Plate II, fig. 12. 



Shell dextral, solid, perforate, spire elongate, acute, longer than 

 the aperture ; whorls 5^, rounded, suture well impressed, surface 

 smooth, obliquely striate, fine spiral striae almost obsolete, aper- 

 ture a wide oval, slightlj' oblique, lip white, moderately reflected 

 and flat, margins of the peritreme connected by a thin deposit ; 

 color pale yellow. Length 25, width 13; length of aperture 10, 

 width 5^ mill. 



Hab. Vate, Efate, or Sandwich Island, Neio Hebrides. 



Obs. I have three examples from Mr, Layard and Captain 

 Brazier. They are the size of Ilacgillivrayi, from Tanna, but 

 the spire is more elongate and acute, the whorls more rounded, 

 the sutures are deeper, and they want the dark band at the peri- 

 pher}^ of that species. 



P. Newcombianum, nobis. Plate II, fig, 13. 



Shell dextral, ovate, rather thin; spire acute, half the length ; 

 w'horls 5, rounded; suture deeply impressed ; body-whorl some- 

 what inflated ; oblique lines of growth fine and crossed by 

 numerous waved spiral strioe, compressly umbilicate ; aperture 

 very oblique, rounded, ovate; lip white, moderately reflected 

 and concave; the outer margin partaking of the color of the 

 epidermis ; columella wide above ; margins of the peritreme 

 connected by a thin vitreous deposit ; a broad, flat, pillar tooth 

 far within the aperture. Color light fawn, with dark brown 

 oblique striae, apex dark brown. Length 17 mill., diameter 

 ir5 mill. ; aperture, length 7 mill., width 4 mill. 




1886.] NATURAL SCTEisrcfeS OF PHILAbiELPHTA* 35 



Hah. Island of Salisbaboe^ one of the Falow Inlands, between 

 Gilolo and Mindanao. 



Obs. I received this shell from Mr. Layard, through Mr. A. 

 Garrett ; in outline and general appearance it resembles some 

 varieties of P. varia. I have named it in honor of Dr. Wesley 

 Newcomb, one of our oldest American conchologists, well known 

 for his writings on the allied genus Achatinella of the Sandwich 

 Islands. 



P. eximia, nobis. Plate II, fig. 14. 



Shell dextral, ovate, elongate, solid ; spire elongate, half the 

 length ; body - whorl large, sutures well impressed ; whorls 

 rounded, oblique lines fine, .and decussated by almost obsolete 

 spiral striae ; umbilicus slightly compressed ; aperture direct, 

 oval ; lip white, moderately reflected and flat ; columella wide 

 above ; margins of the peritreme connected by a thin deposit. 

 Color of the epidermis a soiled pale green, when separated 

 leaving the shell white. Length 23 mill., width 11 mill. ; length 

 of aperture 11 mill., width 5 mill. 



Hab. Aneiteum Island^ New Hebrides. 



Obs. I received one example of this fine species from Mr. 

 Layard, through Mr. Jno. H. Thomson. 



Partula rufa, Less. Plate II, fig. 15. 



Partula concinna, Pease. Plate II, fig. 16. 



Partula pellucida, Pse. Plate II, fig. 17. 



Partula Layardii, Braz. Plate II, fig. 18. 



Partula (Diplomorpha) De la Touri, nobis, Plate II, fig. 19. 



Shell dexti'al, solid, short conic ; whorls 4|^, rounded, suture 

 deep, body-whorl inflated, almost two-thirds the length, surface 

 with coarse oblique strife, umbilicus wide, aperture perpendicular, 

 lip white, moderatel}' reflected and revolute, the external margin 

 slightly indented, encroaching on the aperture ; color of the 

 epidermis light brown, color of the aperture dark orange. Length 

 20, diameter 14 ; length of aperture 12, diameter 8 mill. 



Hab. Au7^a Island, in the Halo Bass, Santo Espirito Group. 



Obs This shell has recently been discovered by Mons. De la 

 Tour, an enthusiastic young naturalist, who writes that this little 

 island teems with molluscan life. But one other species is known ; 

 P. {Diplomorpha) Layardii, Brazier, herein figured. It is found 

 at Yate or Sandwich Island, New Hebrides. The habits of the 

 animals are terrestrial. 




3^ Proceedings of the academy oi* [1886. 



February 2. 

 Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair. 



Twenty-six persons present. 



On a Post-tympanic Ossicle iyi Ursus. -Dr. Harrison Allen 

 called attention to an ossicle in the skull of the bear. It is 

 situated over the point of junction of the squama and the opis- 

 thotic elements as these bones enter into the formation of the 

 mastoid. The bone was seen in the skull of young individuals 

 only. The species examined were Ursus Americanus, Ursus 

 horribilis, and Ursus maritimus. 



The posterior prolongation of the tympanic elements which 

 are so conspicuously developed in 3Iephitis and Taxidea are 

 absent in Ursus. It is every way probable that the new element 

 described is a member of the tympanic series, but instead of 

 being found in the space between the mastoid and the paramastoid 

 it is placed at the tip of the bones which enter into the composi- 

 tion of the mastoid. The name post-tympanic is accordingly 

 proposed for this bone. 



February 9. 

 Mr. Edw. Potts in the chair. 

 Seventeen persons present. 



February 16. 



Mr. Thos. Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Nineteen persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 

 " On the Minute Structure of Stromatopora and its allies," by 

 Dr. C. Rominger. 



" On the Problem of Reversed Vision," b}' Charles Morris. 



February 23. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty-four persons present. 




1886.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



37 



An Extinct Boar from Florida. Prof. Leidy exhibited a spe- 

 cimen consisting of t^o fragments of a tooth, "which together are 

 over three inches long, and form the greater portion of the worn 



extremity of a 

 lo\vertusl<:,with 

 the point bro- 

 ken off, appar- 

 ently of a huge 

 suilline animal. 

 The fragments 

 were mingled 

 with other small 

 ones of tusks of 

 Mastodon fiori- 

 danus, recently 

 collected in Flo- 

 rida. The spe- 

 cimen nearly ac- 

 cords in shape 

 with the corres- 

 ponding part of 

 the tusk of the 

 hog, but approx- 

 imates in pro- 

 portionate size 

 that of the hip- 

 popotamus. The 

 worn surface in 

 the entire tooth 

 has been about 

 three inches 

 long, and is an 

 inch wide. Thin 

 enamel invests 

 the tooth, ex- 



FiQ. 1 Posterior view of the right lower canine tooth; a, worn ceptino" on the 



surface ; 6, broken surface ; c, enamel. ' i^osterior SUr- 



FiG. 2. Transverse section of the same. face aS in the 



hog. Near the broken base of the specimen in one position, extend- 

 ing a short distance from the post-external border, the enamel is 

 defined by a sinuous edge, and appears to show that it ceased 

 about four inches from the point of the tooth, instead of extend- 

 ing the whole length of the tusk as in the hog. The anterior or 

 internal, and the posterior surfaces of the tooth are transversely 

 convex, and the external surface is convex and slightly flattened. 

 In transverse section the tooth is ovate, instead of triangular as 

 in the hog, the inner pole forming the sharp edge of the worn 

 surface. The surfaces of the tooth are smoother even than in 

 the hog, being less marked by longitudinal striae and transverse 




38 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



lines of growth. They show no trace of the fluting in the tusk 

 of the hippopotamus, nor of the strong external ridge of the 

 peccary. The specimen is nearer in character to the tusk of the 

 hog than that of any other related animal, but is sufficiently dif- 

 ferent to render it probable that it may pertain to another genus. 

 No undoubted remains of the genus Sus have yet been discovered 

 in America, and the same is the case with the genus Hippopot- 

 amus. The peccary appears to be the American representative 

 of the hog. The fossil may provisionally be referred to a new 

 genus, related with the latter, with the name of JSusyodon, dis- 

 tinuuishing the species as Eusyodon maximus. 



The transverse diameter of the section of the tusk, about three 

 inches from the point, is an inch and two-thirds ; and the fore and 

 aft diameter an inch and a quarter. 



Caries in the Mastodon. Prof. Leidy directed attention to a 

 specimen consisting of the posterior portion of a last upper 

 molar tooth of the Mastodon, which he had attributed to a spe- 

 cies under the name of M. Jioridanus. It is remarkable from 

 the circumstance that it apparently exhibits the result of caries, 

 a condition of which he had never previously observed an instance 

 in extinct animals. The supposed caries appears as an irregular 

 excavation immediately above the crown of the tooth, about four 

 lines in depth. The mouth of the cavity is elliptical, extending 

 one and one-fourth inches transversely, and one-fourth of an inch 

 vertically. The surface of the cavity appears irregularly eroded. 



F. L. Harvey and Miss Mary A. Campbell were elected 

 members. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 39 



ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE OF STROMATOPORA AND ITS ALLIES. 



BY DR. C. ROMINGER. 



I had only recently the opportunity of reading the joint essay 

 by Prof. Alleyne Nicholson and Dr. F. Mnrie on the structure 

 of Stromatopora, published in 1879, in the Journal of the Linnsean 

 Society of London. The communication treats for the most part 

 to the structure of the Stromatoporas found on the American 

 continent. 



As I had paid attention for a number of years to the study of 

 Stromatopora and had gathered extensive collections of them in 

 most of the localities from which the tj'pe specimens described 

 by these authors came, I had no difficult}" in identifying the forms 

 they had under consideration. While I was enabled in this way 

 to confirm the cori'ectness of some of their observations, I found 

 that in other instances they labored under erroneous conceptions, 

 parti}' because their material was insufficient, partly because they 

 did not recognize the things as they actually were. 



Of most of the forms described by them and of a number of 

 others I had over fifteen years ago worked out descriptions, 

 accompanied by sixteen plates of magnified photographic figures, 

 intending to have them published under the auspices of the 

 Smithsonian Institution. Those to whom the paper was referred 

 for examination, however, reported adversely, in view of the recent 

 publication of Baron v. Rosen's monograph on Stromatopora and 

 the undesirability, as they believed, of issuing so manj'' plates 

 with such a comparatively small amount of text. 



Messrs. Nicholson and Murie commence with an historical expo- 

 sition of the different opinions held by writers on the nature and 

 affinities of Stromatopora^ and after discussion of the arguments 

 for and against such opinions, they declare themselves with some 

 reserve in favor of the most popular of them, which was also held 

 by Goldfuss, the founder of the genus, that is to say, they think 

 the nearest relationship of Stromatopora is with the s})onges having 

 a calcareous skeleton. The authors think they have recognized 

 in Stromatopora systems of channels destined for the circulation 

 of water to and from the organism, analogous to those permeating 

 the mass of sponges ; but we shall see hereafter that these supposed 




40 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



water-channels are not a part of the organism, and prove on 

 accurate examination to be either accidental perforations of the 

 skeleton by boring animals, or else, are the stems of certain corals, 

 particularly of Syringopora^ which have grown up simultaneously 

 with the Slromatopora, parasitically enveloping them. 



At the time I wrote the before-mentioned manuscript I also 

 believed a close affinity existed between the sponges and Stro- 

 matopora, but since Carter and others have pointed out the simi- 

 larity existing between the calcareous skeleton of Hydractinia 

 and Stromatopora I am convinced that the similarity between the 

 calcispongiae and Stromatopora is merely an external one. The 

 mode of gi'owth and organization of the sponges essentially differs 

 from that of Stromatopora. The sponges are through their entire 

 mass permeated by a system of channels systematically arranged 

 so as to make it evident that all parts of the sponge are destined 

 to perform simultaneously a vital function in the compound organ- 

 ism. There is nothing in their structure which could with pro- 

 priety be compared with the uniform periodicitj^ in the growth of 

 a Stromatopora, which forms layer after la3'er in endless succes- 

 sion, one being the exact analogue of the other. The layers in 

 many instances are almost entirely shut off from communication 

 with the subjacent portion of the laminated skeleton. We have 

 to infer, therefore, that the live portion of a Stromatopora was 

 confined to the uppermost superficial strata, while the iuterlaminar 

 cell-spaces towards the interior gradually were abandoned and 

 became dead portions of the skeleton, as is the case with the skel- 

 etons of Hydractinia, and generally with all true corals produc- 

 ing a calcareous ston}' skeleton. 



In a second chapter the authors give the characteristics of 

 Stromatopora, considering as type of the genus the Goldfussian 

 species Str. concentrica and polymorpha, both found in the Eifel, 

 Germany. 



Their description reads : " Stromatopora is composed of a suc- 

 cession of thin, close-set laminae, arranged concentrically round 

 one or more imaginary centres. These concentric fundamentally 

 horizontal laminae are separated by interspaces, which are crossed 

 by more or less numerous vertical pillars ; hence tlie vertical sec- 

 tion of a Stromatopora exhibits a number of approximately hori- 

 zontal layers and intervening spaces, the latter divided by upright 

 pillars into a number of vesicular compartments. The entire lami- 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



nated mass has sometimes grown as an incrustation of a central 

 nucleus, a shell or coral ; other times it forms a more or less thick 

 expansion with a small point of attachment, and otherwise a free 

 underface covered b}^ a wrinkled dense epithelial crust." 



After this, in a general way correct description, they discuss 

 the original nature of the hard structures of Stromatoporoids, 

 which in fossilized condition are found calcareous, other times 

 siliceous, or partially calcareous and partially siliceous ; and demon- 

 strate the originally calcareous nature of the ske.eton of Stroma- 

 topora particularly by the circumstance that the specimens of 

 Stromatopora are always found in a calcareous condition, when 

 the associated fossils are likewise calcareous ; but if the associated 

 primitively calcareous fossils are to any large proportion silicified, 

 then also the skeletons of StromatojMra are found more or less 

 completely silicified. The various modes of preservation are 

 then enumerated : a, skeleton wholly calcareous ; 6, skeleton 

 calcareous, interlaminar spaces infiltrated with silica ; c, skeleton 

 silicified but the interlaminar spaces infiltrated with calcite ; d, 

 both former conditions of preservation represented in one and the 

 same specimen ; e, both skeleton and interlaminar spaces trans- 

 formed and filled with silica. 



Entering into description of the more minute particulars of the 

 structure of Stromatopora the writers state that of the before- 

 mentioned pillars not all reach from lamina to lamina, but that 

 rudimentary shorter ones occur between. The pillars and laminae 

 are represented as composed of granvilar carbonate of lime, which 

 shows no structure, except occasionally an indistinct indication 

 of reticulation. According to my own observation, in all well- 

 preserved calcareous specimens of Stromatopora, the substance 

 of the laminae and of the pillars, being composed of a network of 

 interwoven delicate fibres, can be recognized with the greatest 

 distinctness, with a good simple lens, although not so distinctly 

 with the higher powers of a microscope, both the organic structure 

 and the crystalline mineral structure then becoming visible, thus 

 causinsr a blurred image. 



The pillars are described as either simple rounded prominences 

 or else as vermicular and anastomosing crests which are imperfor- 

 ate, solid, not tubular. The writers, however, observed on the 

 surface of weathered silicified specimens sometimes a part of the 

 exposed pillars perforated by a central opening, which they try 




42 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



to explain by an incomplete silicification of the central portion 

 of these pillars and by subsequent lixiviation of the unchanged 

 calcareous centre on exposure to atmospheric influences. 



I have, likewise, frequently observed a central perforation of 

 cross-fractured pillars in calcareous, as well as in silicified speci- 

 mens, but while I perfectly agree with their representation of the 

 pillars as generally being solid, not tubular, I do not think that 

 the central perforation of the pillars in the mentioned cases is 

 the result of weathering of the imperfectly silicified skeleton 

 substance. I believe it is caused b}^ funnel-shaped inflexions of 

 the laminae at the base of these pillars, which excavation shows 

 itself as a central opening, if the apical part of the pillars which 

 is solid is broken off. 



The laminae of some forms of Stromatopora, such as tuberculafa, 

 and granulata of Nicholson, are described as continuous leaves, 

 without any visible perforations placing the superimposed inter- 

 laminar spaces in communication. It may be suggested that sucli 

 openings of communication may exist. I had frequently occasion 

 to observe this to be the case, although, in many instances, the 

 laminae of these species of Stromatopora appeared perfectly free 

 of larger perforations than the minute pores of the tissue itself. 



In other forms, such as Strom, nodulata, and densa, the exist- 

 ence of such larger openings for communication between the 

 superimposed interlaminar spaces has been ]"ecognized by the 

 writers. 



According to m}" own observations, a part of these pores of 

 communication, and at the same time the largest ones, can be deter- 

 mined to be portions of the ramified horizontal channel expansions 

 radially converging towards certain centres, and uniting there in 

 one larger central canal, ascending vertically. These horizontal 

 canals in their extension slowly ascend from one interlaminar 

 space into another. They have, as Messrs. Nicholson and Murie 

 correctly observed, no proper walls, and cannot be considered as 

 canals horizontally intersecting the substance of the laminae, but 

 with more propriety are described as furrows on the surface of 

 the laminae, which, finally, by the formation of a new lamina above 

 the older one, become roofed over and are transformed into closed 

 tubular spaces. This opinion I fully indorse. 



All Stromatoporas do not exhibit such radical channel expan- 

 sions well developed, but faint indications of radially arranged 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



furrows converging to certain centres can be discovered in almost 

 every form of Stromatopora if we examine a sufficient number of 

 well-preserved specimens. Certain forms show them always most 

 beautifully, particularl}^ those in which the tissue of the lamellae 

 and tlie i)illars has an open porous texture, which increases their 

 bulk, and diminishes the size of the interstitial spaces propor- 

 tionately. These forms have been pointed out by Winchell under 

 the generic name of Goenostroma, which distinction is not accepted 

 by Messrs. Nicholson and Murie, as the principal generic charac- 

 ter of Ccenostroma is said to be the occurrence of the radial 

 channel expansions which, being present in forms of ver}' different 

 affinitives, cannot, in their opinion, be used as a generic mark. 

 This is, in one way, true ; but if we consider that the forms com- 

 prehended under Ccenostroma are distinguished not only by their 

 radiated surface, but by the before-mentioned bulkiness of their 

 lamina; and pillai'S, and the minuteness of the interlaminar cavi- 

 ties, from the ordinary typical forms of Stromatopora, which have 

 compact, well-defined laminte and pillars, I think these two 

 characters combined allow a subdivision of Stromatopora into 

 two groups, which at the first glance are distinguishable by even 

 an inexperienced observer, although, as I admit, numerous tran- 

 sitory grades from one group to the other exist, which make it 

 difficult to draw a line of demarkation between them. 



The characters by which Prof. Nicholson distinguishes Stylo- 

 diclyon from Stromatopora most assuredly stand on a weaker basis 

 than those of Winchell's Ccenostrovia, as I will demonstrate here- 

 after when Messrs. Nicholson and Muvie's newly created genera 

 are reviewed. 



After having described these radiating horizontally expanded 

 channels, the authors give a description of certain so-called 

 vertical water canals, observed in many different forms of Stro- 

 matopora. 



There are two essentially difl["erent kinds of such canals verti- 

 cally traversing the laminated masses, and considered by the 

 authors as parts of the organism. In one of the cases we find 

 the mass of the Stromatopora perforated by comparatively large, 

 generally round, but sometimes elliptical canals, which have no 

 walls for themselves, and are evidently perforations by boring 

 animals. The nature of the channels and their totally irregular 

 distribution in the masses, proves this in a large number of spe- 

 cimens examined by me. 




44 JPROCEEDINGS OF THfe ACADEMY OF [1886. 



As representing this kind of channels, or oscula, as they term 

 them, the authors mention the following forms : Stromatopora 

 striatella^ Hindei^ tuherculata^ ponderosa, and ostiolata. In the 

 first four mentioned forms, the true nature of these perfora- 

 tions is without difficulty demonstrable. In St. ostiolata^ of which 

 specimens from Guelph, Canada, are transformed into a coarsely 

 crystalline dolomite, the organic structure of these masses can 

 scarcely be ascertained, and it is impossible to decide definitely 

 on the nature of the tubular casts traversing them. One of the 

 other examples mentioned, the so-called Stromatopora Hittdei, is 

 unfortunately selected, as it is in reality an Alveolites^ perforated 

 by some boring animal. The figures and description given leave 

 no doubt as to this point. Similar silicified specimens are, more- 

 over, not rarely met with in the Niagara group of Michigan. 



The second kind of vertical tubular channels supposed to have 

 the function of conducting water through the organism of Stro- 

 matopora has distinct walls with imbricating wrinkles of growth 

 on the outside, and frequently from their interior a circle of 

 longitudinal rows of spinules projects ; more rarely invaginated 

 funnel-shaped diaphragms interrupting the tube-channels can be 

 observed, all of which proves that we have before us inclosed 

 stems of a Syringopora and not canals making part of the skele- 

 ton of the associated Stromatopora. Specimens of each are quite 

 abundant in the Devonian strata of Michigan, Ohio, Kentucky, 

 and Canada. Some pebbles found on the shore of Lake Superior 

 represent the same parasitical investment of clusters of Syringo- 

 pora stems on Stromatopora. 



In the Niagara group we also find various kinds of Stromato- 

 pora similarly intergrown with stems of a delicate Syringopora, 

 which I have described in the Michigan Geological reports under 

 the name Syringopora filiformis. In other cases we find colonies 

 of Diphyphyllum multicaule invested in the same way by Stroma- 

 topora. 



In this connection also Stromatocerium of Hall is cited by the 

 authors as an example of the first class of vertical water canals, 

 without any proper walls. In a chapter headed '' Departures from, 

 the Ordinary Type of Stromatopora,^'' as the first of these, Stroma- 

 tocerium, is enumerated, and the following description given : "It 

 has the general aspect of Stromatopora, and possesses crowded con- 

 centric laminae characteristic for Stromatoporoids. The laminae are 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



of considerable thickness, and are separated as usual by well- 

 marked interlaminar spaces, but the latter are quite open, and 

 there is a total absence of the vertical calcareous pillars which 

 occur in the normal Stromatoporoids; but the whole mass is per- 

 forated by innumerable vertical canals, which are destitute of 

 walls, and open directly into the successive interlaminar spaces 

 which they penetrate, as well as into open irregular laminae in 

 the general laminated skeleton." 



This is an erroneous conception of the structure of that famil}^ 

 as these supposed tubules are in reality casts of actual solid 

 tissue pillars which vertically intersect the laminated mass, some- 

 times without interruption in the different intersected layers, 

 sometimes in each band (consisting of a group of subordinate 

 delicate layers), these pillars start anew from a fresh basis. 



The ordinary mode of preservation of the fossil has generally 

 impaired the original organic texture of the skeleton, which 

 became almost totally destroyed, and the space occupied by tissue 

 mass filled with transparent crystalline carbonate of lime, while 

 the former vesicular interlaminar interstices were replenished 

 with turbid, milky dolomite. Sections through such specimens 

 in vertical direction, show the transparent casts of the tissue 

 pillars as tubular channels, and in horizontal sections the same 

 appear to be circular orifices surrounded by a massive interstitial 

 wall substance. 



Silicified specimens occasionally occur in which the interlaminar 

 spaces filled with silica are the only part preserved, while the 

 actual skeleton has been removed by solvents, and the space once 

 occupied by it remaining hollow, we then see the mass intersected 

 b3^ innumerable small circular channels. 



I had the good fortune to find in the drift of Ann Arbor some 

 calcareous specimens in which the original tissue mass is pre- 

 served, represented by a non-transparent, dull, calcareous matter, 

 while the cellulose interlaminar interstices are replenished with 

 clear, transparent carbonate of lime. 



They consist of a succession of thick, concentrically superim- 

 posed, undulating and monticulose layers from two to six milli- 

 meters in thickness, which are generally demarkated from 

 one another by darker colored division lines of greater density 

 than the remainder of the lamina. Each such larger lamina 

 represents a certain uninterrupted period of growth during 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



which, beginning from a solid basal leaf, densely crowded with 

 papillose prominences, delicate versiculous plates are formed at 

 short intervals, connecting into a floor which bridges over 

 the tops of these papilli, which are prolonged until another 

 floor spreads over their apices, and until from six to twelve of 

 these subordinate laminse had formed, inclosing between them 

 versicular cell-spaces. Then after an evident interruption in the 

 uniform progress of growth, a new one of the larger layers com- 

 posed of subordinate laminte, commenced to form on top of the 

 other. The pillars intersecting the laminae subordinate to a larger 

 bandlike layer form uninterrupted columelles which usually 

 correspond with those of the next succeeding layers or bands. 

 In other cases, however, the columellse or pillars of each one of 

 the thicker compound lamince are independent in their position, 

 and do not correspond. Some of these pillars are often much 

 stouter than the others, and divide into several mammiform side 

 branches. The majority of them are simple, rounded, or later- 

 ally compressed into vermicular crests, particularly so in the 

 circumference of the monticulose prominences of the surface, 

 where these crests radially converge towards the centre, resem- 

 bling the horizontal radially converging channel expansions of an 

 ordinary Stromatopora^ but in this case it is the tissue-mass, and 

 not the intervening furrows, which produces the vermicular 

 radiating converging lines. The interstitial cell-spaces inclosed 

 between the convex transverse leaflets bridging over the space 

 from pillar to pillar, are very similar to the convex vesicules in 

 a vertical section of a CystiphyUum. As above stated in the 

 majority of specimens occurring abundantly in the Trenton 

 group of Escanaba River, and at Nashville, Tennessee, and 

 also in the drift of Ann Arbor and in the upper part of the 

 Cincinnati group at Madison, Indiana, the actual skeleton sub- 

 stance is almost completely destroyed, and its place filled with 

 crystalline carbonate of lime. It often occurs that several of the 

 thick bandlike layers are composed of a succession of vesiculose 

 layers twice or three times the size of the vesicules composing 

 other layers of the same specimens. In this case the vertical 

 pillars become very obscure, so that the whole appears as an 

 indiscriminate accumulation of vesicules as large as those of an 

 ordinary CystiphyUum. 

 The surface of Stromaiocerium was not known to Messrs. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47 



Nicholson and Murie. I have seen many specimens with a sur- 

 face covered by rounded monticules similar to those of Stromato- 

 pora monticulifera, Winchell, and the tops of these monticules 

 radiated by the convergence of the before-mentioned compressed 

 vermiform crests representing the pillars of an ordinary Stro- 

 matopora. I had photographic representations of such natural 

 surfaces on the plates pertaining to my old manuscript essay on 

 Stromatopora, besides figures of vertical sections which exhibit 

 the structure better than any description can do it. 



As a second aberrant form of Stromatoporoids the authors 

 pointed out a form to which they gave the name Pachystrovia. 



The tj^pe form occurs in the Niagara group and is described as 

 consisting of subhemispherical masses formed of a concentric 

 succession of very thick laminae from one to two lines in diameter, 

 which are in direct contrast, not separated by inter-laminar 

 spaces except occasionally by narrow irregular intervals, conse- 

 quently there are also no radial pillars. Under the microscope 

 the great laminse are formed of an indistinct porous calcareous 

 tissue principally composed of irregular vertical fibres placed at 

 some distance from one another, and only clearly brought to view 

 by the use of polarized light. Numerous delicate but irregular, 

 generally remote vertical vermicular tubules without distinct 

 walls are said to perforate the mass, but such poi'es could not be 

 discovered on fractured surfaces by the use of a simple lens. 

 The surface of weathered specimens also shows radiating branched 

 subdermal canals placed round numerous independent centres, 

 precisely as in the so-called Ccenostroma. 



Several figures of sections through Pachystroma are given, 

 which, together with the above description, convince me that the 

 authors had under observation imperfectly preserved specimens 

 of Stromatopora, which occur abundantlj'^ in the Niagara group ; 

 those found in the vicinity of Lockport in calcified condition, 

 particularly correspond with the given descriptions. They have 

 generally lost the finer structure, but exhibit distinctly a compo- 

 sition of concentrically superimposed bands consisting of an 

 almost structureless, compact, calcareous mass, cut into thin 

 slices, showing under the microscope the above described fibrous 

 texture. 



On examination of a good many specimens exceptionally a spot 

 may be found in which the structure is better preserved, and in 




48 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



those I can see that each one of the described large, thick laminae 

 consists of a number of delicate subordinate laminae, separated as 

 usual by minute interlaminar spaces, intersected with pillars. 

 In my opinion, therefore, the so-called Pachystroma merely repre- 

 sents a certain imperfect state of preservation of several of the 

 ordinary species of Stromatopora found in the Niagara group. 

 The grouping of the smaller structural elements into broader 

 bands is almost universally the rule in Stromatopora. Any ver- 

 tical section almost, in which the delicate laminae and interstitial 

 spaces alternate through the whole thickness of the mass with 

 great uniformity, will, if we direct our attention to it, show a 

 grouping of a number of such laminae into one broader, occa- 

 sionally narrower bands, discernible by a darker shade of color 

 on the junction line of two of such bands. It indicates tempo- 

 rary short interruptions in the regularity of the progressing 

 growth, as I have intimated previously, while giving a description 

 of the structure of Stromatocerium. 



Prof. Nicholson considers also Stromatopora densa of the Hel- 

 derberg group as a representative of his Pachystroma, but of this 

 form I can most positively assert that its structure does not differ 

 in any respect from the typical forms of Stromatopora. 



The specimens before me allow the recognition of the regular 

 superposition of laminae, supported by galleries of short, stout 

 pillars with greatest distinctness ; the orifices of the horizontal 

 channel expansions are in vertical sections, rather large, and the 

 ordinary interlaminar cell-spaces unusually small, which causes 

 the compactness and apparent density of the mass, as compared 

 with the open porous appearance of sections of other associated 

 forms of Stromatopora, the commonest of which is Stromato- 

 pora ponderosa, Nicholson. This latter form I had years ago dis- 

 tributed among my scientific friends under the name of Stroma- 

 topora tentilis, on account of its most elegant reticulated 

 appearance in vertical sections. In this respect it exceeds in 

 distinctness any other form of Stromatopora known to me. 



A third group of Stromatoporoids, aberrant from the ordinary 

 type, Mr. Nicholson named Clath.rodictyon. It is distinguished 

 from the type form by the flexuose course of the lamellae com- 

 posing the laminated section. They are continually turned up 

 and downward, the upturned portions representing the vertical 

 pillars of ordinary forms of Sti^omatopora, The interlaminar 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 49 



spaces, therefore, appear as layers of rounded or elongated vesic- 

 ules somewhat resembling the tissue of Gystij^hyllum on a minute 

 scale. Forms of this structure occur abundantly in the Niagara 

 group and some in the Devonian strata. 



A generic distinction of these forms, represented in many dif- 

 ferent modifications, can, in my opinion, be made with propriety, 

 but as intermediate forms occur, in which the lamellae are only 

 little disturbed in their straight course by the inflexions repre- 

 senting the interstitial pillars, it is difficult to draw a line separ- 

 ating Clathrodictyon from Stromatopora. 



Prof. Nicholson's type form of Glathrodictyon^ occurring in 

 the Niagara group, is described as forming large cake-like expan- 

 sions from one to two inches in thickness centrall}^, but thinning 

 out near the margins. Upper face irregulai'ly undulating and 

 exfoliating concentrically round elevated points. Surface smooth. 

 Internal structure exceedingly delicate, formed of fine close-set, 

 horizontal or slightly undulating laminae, of which about twenty 

 to twenty -five occupy the space of one line. Interlaminar spaces 

 divided into minute lenticular cells formed by curved inflexions 

 of the horizontal laminae. 



Specimens to which, in a general way, this description is ap- 

 plicable, are common in the Niagara group of Michigan, Kentucky 

 and Iowa, but although a good many hundreds came under my 

 observation I could never find one whose structure was so minute 

 as to exhibit from twenty to twenty -five laminae on the space of 

 one line. The most delicately built among my specimens had not 

 over sixteen within the space of a line. 



The form having this delicate structure I had, in my above- 

 mentioned essa}- on Stromatopora, described and figured under 

 the name Stromatopora minuta. Its structure does not repre- 

 sent the character of Clathrodictyon in its most perfect develop- 

 ment, as the lamellae, which by their inflexion form the pillars, 

 are not much twisted out of their rectilinear general direction, and 

 as a number of pillars are observable in such sections which are 

 papillose prominences of the surface of the lamellae, not showing 

 any inflexion of the latter at their base. 



Associated with this form are several other forms of much 

 coarser structure with from six to eight lamellae within the space 

 of one line, which exhibit the clathrodictyon character in much 

 more ideal perfection than the type form does. These had been 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



described in my before-mentioned essay under the name of Stro- 

 matopora vesiculosa, as their vertical sections appear as an accu- 

 mulation of layers of cystose cells, rather than as a succession of 

 continuous laminae, separated by interstitial spaces. The demar- 

 kating walls of the cells appear in vertical sections as the meshes 

 of a net-work bounded by lines diagonally intersecting the direc- 

 tion which the laminae should have if they formed continuous 

 leaves. In some of these specimens a banded structure is ol)serv- 

 able, whereby from five to eight layers of vesicules are grouped- 

 together to form a broader band, which then is sharply defined by 

 a straight continuous division line from the adjoining similar 

 bands above and below it. 



Other specimens of this vesiculose species of Stromatopora 

 are found intergrown with stems of Syringopora /ilifo7^mis, 

 sometimes also with stems of Diphyphyllum multicaule, exactly 

 in the same manner as in the previousl}' mentioned Devonian 

 forms, which have been subordinated by the authors to Gauno- 

 pora, supposing the enveloped stems to be part of the skeleton 

 of Stromatopo7'a. 



Among the Devonian representatives of his genus Glathro- 

 dictyon, Mr. Nicholson describes, under the name G. cellulosum, 

 a form which I had in my paper named Stromal, cellulifera. It 

 occurs in the corniferous limestone of Port Colborne and else- 

 where, in association with another form which I called Str. 

 invoxjinata, but which, it seems, did not come under his observa- 

 tion. C. cellulosum is described as growing in irregular expan- 

 sions of considerable size, formed of a succession of horizontal 

 lamelhie, about four occupying the space of one line, and so 

 inflected as to form complete or incomplete partitions, which 

 divide the interlaminar spaces into a number of irregularly oval 

 vesicules, about three occup3ang one line. Surface tuberculated. 

 or granulated ; the tubercules occasionally perforated. In the 

 specimens found in the same locality the surface, instead of 

 being tuberculated or granulated, as above described, is covered 

 with roof-like, elongated, laterally uniting crests, forming in this 

 way a network, enclosing shallow subpolygonal cell-pits, some- 

 what similar to the shallow pits of a minute compound star-coral, 

 as the margins of these crests on weathered silicified specimens, 

 being of porous texture, appear sometimes crenulated, which 

 crenulation increases the resemblance. The other form allied to 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 51 



Clathrodictyon which is not described by Prof. Nicholson, pre- 

 sents the weathered surfaces of the silicitied specimens, covered 

 with very stout rounded conical papilli of almost uniform size, 

 about half a millimetre in diameter and twice that distance apart. 

 Apices of the not cross-fractured papilli imperforate. In a 

 vertical section four or five well-demarkated stout lamellae occupy 

 the space of two millimetres, which is approximately the same 

 as one line. The interlamellar pillars are formed by upward 

 flexions of the lamella, and therefore we see the base of each 

 one excavated by an inverted funnel-shaped sinuosity ; and as 

 the pillars of the successiv^e laminae correspond, the apices of the 

 pillars of the inferior laminae become invaginated into the basal 

 funnel-shaped excavation of the next ones above, which being 

 the case through the whole thickness of the laminated mass, 

 makes it appear as if so many vertical columns intersected it 

 transversel}'. This structure was observed b}^ Mr. Nicholson in 

 another species of Stromatopora, and induced him to propose for 

 it the generic name Stylodictyon. 



The space between these pseudo-columns is bridged over by a 

 gentl}' downward curved portion of the lamellae, leaving corres- 

 pondingly large elongated interlaminar spaces between them, which 

 often are subdivided by arched vesicular plates obliquel}' and 

 irregularly traversing them. The mode of growth of this form 

 is the same as that of the former species ; it occurs in thick undula- 

 ting expansions, covered by an epithecal crust on the under side. 



An associate of these two forms, which I had named Stroma- 

 topora explanata, has been described by Prof. Nicholson under 

 the name of Stromatopora tuberculata. Its surface is crowded 

 with rather close-set, rounded papilli, somewhat differing in size. 

 Occasionally an arrangement of somewhat compressed, elongated 

 papilli, in radial order towards certain centres, is faintly indi- 

 cated, but rarely becomes obviously developed. The lamellte are 

 stout, formed of a compact tissue-mass, in which distant perfora- 

 tions are observable, maintaining communication between the 

 superimposed interlaminar spaces. Five or six lamellae occupy 

 the space of one line, interstitial cell-spaces comparatively large, 

 oval or elongated to twice the amount of their height. The 

 course of the laminte is generally in straight parallel lines, but 

 we can often observe their upward inflection at the base of some 

 of the pillars. This produces in vertical sections of this form a 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



considerable resemblance to sections of Glathrodictyon cellulosum, 

 whose structure is somewhat coafser, having only four or five 

 lamellae within the space of a line, and more conspicuously 

 inflected in order to form pillars. 



As a fourth aberrant form of Stromatoporoids, a single speci- 

 men found in the upper Cincinnati group of Ohio is described 

 by the authors, about which I am unable to give an opinion of 

 my own, as from the rather vague description I cannot say that 

 anything similar ever was under my observation. 



After these expositions, a classification of the different tj^pes 

 of Stromatoporoids is attempted, and seven generic cadres are 

 proposed, most of which had been sketched already iu the 

 previous chapters. 



These proposed genera are: (1) Stromatopora Goldfuss, com- 

 prising all those forms consisting of concentrically superim- 

 posed laminae, each lamina separated from the other by a 

 distinct interlaminar space, which is crossed by numerous ver- 

 tical pillars. In some of these forms are radial, subhorizontal 

 canals or surface grooves placed round minor centres, which, 

 according to my own experience, are present in almost every 

 form of Stromatopora at least, in rudimentary development. 

 In addition to these characters, large vertical canals intersecting 

 the laminated masses are described by the authors, which they 

 believe to be analogous to the oscula of sponges. I have to 

 reject this opinion as erroneous. 



(2). Caunopora Phillips. Type, Caunopora placenta. Repre- 

 sentative form of the authors' Stromatophora perforata. I need 

 not enter again into a discussion of the value of this generic 

 distinction, as I have previously proved that these forms do not 

 represent one organism, but are coral stems, parasitically invested 

 with various kinds of Stromatopora, which in the same localities 

 grew perfectly free of such enclosed stems, erroneously believed 

 to be parts of the organism. 



(3). Glathrodictyon Nicholson, likewise, has been sufficiently 

 taken into consideration. 



(4). Stylodictyon Nicholson, is represented by two species, St. 

 columnare and St. retiforme. Besides the general structure of 

 Stromatopora, as special character of this genus, it is asserted 

 that a s^^stem of vertical columns of dense calcareous tissue per- 

 vades the laminated skeleton. The concentric arrangement 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. feiJ 



of the successive laminae and their interstices round these 

 vertical columns, is also brouglit forward as a noteworthy 

 circumstance. It is likewise stated that radiating channel 

 expansions may be present or not. I had described and figured 

 these two forms in my paper, under the name Stromatopora 

 Wortheni^ thinking a division into two species superfluous, as 

 insensible gradations from one form into the other exist. 



The columellar streaks, seen to intersect the mass of this other- 

 wise typical form of Stromatopora in vertical sections, are pro- 

 duced by the repeated abrupt flexions of the lamellae imo 

 papillose prominences which cover the surface, similar to those 

 we observe in many other forms of Stromatopora, as for instance, 

 in Str. pustulifera Winchell. 



As in this latter form, the prominences are somewhat larger 

 and consequently the flexions are not so abrupt, and as the tissue 

 of this form is throughout more compact, we do not observe an 

 obvious contrast between the density of the parts corresponding 

 with the papillose prominences and the broader downward-curved 

 intermediate portions of the skeleton, while in the so-called 

 Stylodictyon, the abrupt flexions of the lamellae in the papilli 

 into an almost vertical direction, cause the closer approxima- 

 tion, and consequently greater density, of these parts than of 

 the intermediate gently downward -curved portions of the 

 laminated skeleton which have comparatively open, well-defined 

 interlaminar cell-spaces conti'asting with the denser portions, so 

 as to let them appear under the form of vertical columns. 

 Examining transparent vertical sections of such specimens, we 

 see that the lamellae are not interrupted in their continuity while 

 passing across these columellar streaks, and that no additional 

 tissue element comes into play, which could be claimed as con- 

 stituting the substance of the columelles. On the contrary, 

 every portion of these columellar streaks is identifiable either 

 as a normal part of the lamellae or of the intermediate system 

 of pillars. To mention among the generic characters the 

 concentric arrangement of the lamellae and their interstices 

 round these columellar centres, appears to me rather superfluous, 

 as it is a necessary consequence of the monticulose prominences 

 into which the surface is raised. I could invariably observe in 

 all specimens of this tribe which came under my observation, 

 radial horizontal ducts, which, by the Authors, are said to be 

 sometimes developed and sometimes not. 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [188^. 



The structure of the form called Stylodictyon columnare, found 

 in the Helderberg limestones of Kelley's Island, etc., is somewhat 

 more compact than we find it in the specimens of the Hamilton 

 group named retiforme^ but there occur numerous transition 

 forms from the compact to a more open, porous structure. In 

 the size of the papillose prominences, also, a great variation of 

 forms exists. I think, therefore, we could well spare one specific 

 name and retain the one I had selected for both varieties jointly, 

 Stromatopora Wortheni. 



In the Helderberg limestones of Vernon, Indiana, and at the 

 Falls of Ohio, occurs a form of Stromatopora very similar in 

 structure with the former, but with columellar streaks much 

 smaller than in these, measuring only half a millimetre in 

 diameter, or little over. Its tissue mass is also more bulky, of 

 open reticulated spongious texture plainly' recognizable with a 

 common hand magnifier. I had given in my manuscript descrip- 

 tion and figures of it, under the name Stromatopora granidifera, 

 as the papilli on its surface give it rather a granulated than 

 papillose aspect, on account of their smallness. Horizontal 

 radial ducts are well developed in this form. In it and in the 

 former species these ducts unite in more or less distant centres, 

 which are totally independent of the papillose prominences of 

 the surface, while in many other forms of Stromatopora^ as for 

 instance, in monticulifera and piistulifera Winchell, the apex of 

 each of these monticulose elevations is also the centre of conver- 

 ffence for such channels. 



Under Nos. 5 and 6, generic descriptions of Stromatocerium 

 and of Pachystroma are given, which require no further critical 

 comment, as I have on a previous page sufficiently expressed my 

 views on the correctness of the emended characteristic of Stro- 

 matocerium and of the merits of the distinction of Pachystroma. 



As a seventh generic form of Stromatoporoids a certain con- 

 centricall}' laminated fossil found in the Niagara limestone of 

 Louisville, Ky., has been described by Mr. Nicholson under the 

 name Dictyostroma, which has nothing in common with the 

 Stromatoporoid tribe, excepting an external resemblance, being 

 composed of a succession of laminte separated by large inter- 

 stices. The upper surface of these laminae is covered with 

 spiniform prominences, part of which are long enough to reach 

 the bottom of the superincumbent lamella ; others are shorter. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP I'HILADELPHIA. 56 



These numerous processes vertically intersecting the inter- 

 lamellar spaces increase the resemblance of these fossils to 

 Sti'omatopora. Each of the undulating superimposed laminae, 

 of not quite one millimetre in thickness, and about from one to 

 three millimetres distant from one another, is composed of a 

 layer of horizontally prostrate tubules with solid intimately 

 united walls, which after some extent in the horizontal position, 

 abruptly bend upward and open on the surface of the laminae 

 with oblique compressed orifices bordered on the outside either 

 by a sharp lip, or by a vertically rising strong proboscidal pro- 

 longation, similar to the pillars on the surface of the lamellae of 

 a Stromatopora. The underside of each one of these lamellae in 

 the concentric succession, is covered by a wrinkled epithecal 

 crust, through which the outlines of the single tubules compos- 

 ing the lamella are plainly visible, just as we see it on the under- 

 side of foliaceous expansions of Alveolites, and indeed, the 

 structure of this fossil in every respect corresponds with the 

 structure of Alveolites or Limai'ia, and has no analogy whatever 

 with Stromatopora. 



As the numerous specimens I possess of this fossil were not 

 only found in the same locality from which Prof. Nicholson's 

 type specimen comes, but were collected at the same time when 

 Rev. Mr. Herzer picked up the specimen now in possession of 

 Prof. Orton, of Ohio, I am positive that the objects I have under 

 consideration are identical with Prof. Nicholson's type specimen. 

 A very similar concentrically laminated fossil, but on the 

 whole of coarser structure, with interlaminar spaces from three 

 to five millimetres in width and with very stout intervening 

 pillars is not rare in the drift deposits of Ann Arbor. The 

 specimens are silicified and the structure of tlie lamime, as 

 being composed of a layer of prostrate tubules, is no longer 

 recognizable. The wrinkled epithecal crust on the underside of 

 each lamina is, however, still well preserved. The pillars, if 

 broken through, exhibit sometimes a central channel ; the shorter 

 ones, not injured, are imperforate at the apex ; some of the larger 

 pillars divide into mammiform side branches. There remains 

 no doubt in my mind that this and the former Dictyostroma of 

 Nicholson belong to the tribe of Alveolites^ Limaria, etc. I pro- 

 pose, therefore, for them the name of Alveolites stromatoporoides. 

 A genuine Stromatoporoid which in its external aspect has 




66 tROCEEDINQS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



some resemblance to Mr. Nicholson's Dictyostroma, is found at 

 the same locality at Louisville, but the descriptions given by 

 Nicholson, and his figures, sufficiently prove that it was not this 

 form which served him as a type for Dictyostroma. The rather 

 closely approximated laminte are inflected upwards to form stout 

 conical pillars with a funnel-shaped excavation at their base, 

 as in Clathrodictyon and in Stylodictyon of Nicholson. The 

 pillars of the superimposed laminae correspond, and the 

 apices of the lower pillars become invaginated into the basal 

 cavities of those above, whereby a sort of pseudo-columns are 

 formed which vertically intersect the entire thickness of the 

 masses, growing in flat expansions and covered with an epithecal 

 crust on the underside. A number of other interesting forms of 

 Stromatopora occur in the Niagara group, but as my present 

 intention is only a review of Messrs. Nicholson and Murie's 

 work, I abstain from their description on this occasion. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 67 



NOTES ON THE TERTIARY GEOLOGY AND PALEONTOLOGY OF THE 

 SOUTHERN UNITED STATES. . 



BY PROF. ANQELO HEILPRIN. 



Eocene of Texas. In a limited collection of fossils from near 

 the northern border of San Augustine Co., Texas, transmitted to 

 me for examination hy the Texas State Geological and Scientific 

 Association, I have been able to determine the following species : 



Ostrea Alabamiensis. Cardita Blandingi (aUicosta). 



Ostrea sellaformis. Crassatella antestriata. 



Ostrea divaricata. Corbula Texana. 



Pecten Desliayesii. Buecitriton altile? {Texana). 



Anomia f Scalaria sp. indet. 



The horizon represented is evidently the " Claibornian," the 

 deposits probably occupying a position in the " Jacksonian " 

 area. 



The Nummulitic of Florida. Prof. G. A. Wetherby, of Cin- 

 cinnati, has furnished me with a number of rock fragments ob- 

 tained at a locality some six miles southwest of Gainesville, Fla. 

 They are interesting as containing, in addition to one or more 

 species of Orbitoides, several nearly perfect individuals of Num- 

 mulites Floridanus Heilprin, which, therefore, represent the most 

 northern locality in the State where the members of this group 

 of Foraminifera have thus far been found. They lend further 

 confirmation to the views already advanced by the writer as to 

 the broad extent of the southern Nummulitic formation, and to 

 the relative antiquity of the Floridan peninsula. One consider- 

 able fragment of a Heterostegina is also represented in the rock. 



Since the receipt of Prof. Wetherby 's specimens I have been 

 favored, through Mr. Joseph Willcox, of this cit}'', with other 

 fragments from approximately the same locality, Arredonda, 

 Alachua Co., which also contain Nummulites Floridanus, Orbi- 

 loides, and Operculina rotella ( 0. complanata ?). 



Eocene of Kentucky. Mr. R. H. Loughridge has kindly for- 

 warded to me for determination a number of fossils collected by 

 the Geological Survey of Kentucky, from the immediate neigh- 

 borhood of Paducah. They are mainly in the form of casts in a 

 highly ferruginous and fairly micaceous yellow-white sandstone, 

 5 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



and in the most part recognizable only in so far as the determina- 

 tion of genera is concerned. 



The species are referable to the following genera : 



Mysla species probably M. unguUna. 

 Leda species probably L, protexta. 

 Leda species indet. 

 Nucula species probably N. ovula. 

 Turritella species Turritella Mortoni. 



This is, as far as I am aware, the first notification of the dis- 

 covery of marine fossils in the Tertiary deposits of the State. 

 The presence of the strongly carinate form of Turritella Mortoni 

 fixes pretty definitely the horizon, the Lower Eocene, or that of 

 the older Tertiaries of Maryland and Virginia. This is what we 

 should have expected to find from the position of the strata. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 59 



March 2. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty-four persons present. 



March 9. 



Mr. Edw. Potts in the chair. 



Seventeen persons present. 



The deaths of Jesse W. Starr, and of Ward B. Haseltine, 

 members, were announced. 



Botanical Notes : Secretion of Nectar in Lihonia. At the 

 meeting of the Botanical Section, on the 8th instant, Mr. Thomas 

 Meehan remarked that the Brazilian Acanthaceous plant, Lihonia, 

 secreted an enormous amount of nectar at the base of the flowers. 

 As the corollas faded, and dropped from the receptacle, the nectar 

 would be drawn over the still fresh pistil, and leave it with a 

 succession of small globules, the whole shining like a necklace of 

 diamonds in the sun. In a state of nature, honey-collecting insects 

 would doubtless not permit it to accumulate to this extent. 



Production of Nectar in Ornithogalum coarctatum. This pretty 

 species is distinguished by the development of broad sheathing 

 stipular appendages at the base of the inner series of three stamens, 

 stipular appendages as, following Mr. Worthington G. Smith, 

 in a paper contributed to the Horticultural Congress in London 

 in 1865, we must feel bound to term them. These appendages 

 were closely appressed against the ovarium. Noticing little 

 brownish globules projecting above the edges of these appendages 

 he was led to examine, and found that nectar was secreted only at 

 the base of the stipulate stamens. It was produced in such quan- 

 tity as to press upwards and above the edges, as already noted. 

 It was of thick consistence, and with the exact odor of honey. 

 Above or near the apex of the ovarium at 'the base of the short 

 style nectar exuded in limited quantity, and this suggested an 

 analogy between the morphology of the carpellary leaves and the 

 stipular filaments. 



Mr. Meehan further remarked on the production of stipular 

 appendages by the petals of flowers as accounted for by Mr. 

 Worthington Smith. In one of his earliest contributions to the 

 Proceedings of the Academy he had shown that in Magnolia the 

 petals were formed by the suppression of the laminal portions 

 and the development of the stipules. The petals were indeed 




60 PROCEEDINQS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



modified stipules, not true leaves. The petals of roses were cer- 

 tainly modified stipules, and tliis process of development could 

 be traced in many plants. In this species of Ornithogalum there 

 is but a slight dilation at the base of the outer whorl of stamens. 

 A great advance is made in the stipular development in the 

 inner whorl of stamens, where the appendages extend half-way 

 up the filament. The three carpellary leaves formed the next 

 whorl, and we might reasonably imagine a greater development 

 of the stipular energ}^ in a succeeding whorl, and therefore that 

 these carpels were also enlarged stipules. An absolute proof of 

 this was afforded by one plant, which had the habit of producing 

 some flowers with an union evident from the ph3'llotax3', of an 

 outer petal (or sepal) with a stamen of the inner verticil. In this 

 case the staminoid petal took the shape of the stipule, that is to 

 say, it was emarginate, or inversely saggitate at the apex, the fila- 

 ment being wholly wanting, and with the anther in the sinus. 



An additional fact of interest connected with this species is, 

 that a large number of plants among seedlings, though with sta- 

 mens apparently perfectlj'' formed, have wholly sterile anthers. 



Seeds on Depauperite Plants. A specimen of a grass, Setaria 

 viride, was exhibited, not over half an inch high, but which had a 

 large number of perfect seeds nearly mature. It was exhibited 

 to show that such minute plants might grow and produce seed 

 annually for many successive j^ears, the plants each year repro- 

 ducing themselves among other vegetation, without any one being 

 aware of their existence. When such tracts were ploughed up, and 

 plants like this grass get a good chance to develop themselves 

 fully, it would appear that there had not been any plant of the 

 species growing for years, and the fact used to illustrate the long 

 vitality of seeds in the earth. It might be that there was good 

 evidence that cases of long vitality were undoubted ; but it served 

 a good purpose to point out where error may creep in. 



Of Bracts in Gruciferee. It was an axiom that no true cruci- 

 ferse had bracts to the flowers. The double Sweet Al3'ssum of 

 gardens, Koniga maritima, seemed an exception to this rule. The 

 lower flowers were always solitary in the axils of the leaves, and 

 the leaves were often reduced to mere bracts for a long distance 

 up among the flowers. Branches but not flowers in cruciferse 

 would spring from the axils of the leaves. An examination of 

 these double flowers sliowed that man}' had not followed the rule 

 in double flowers, by transforming stamens to petals. Some, in 

 fact, showed thej^ were arrested branches, with depauperite leaves, 

 a solitary petal being produced in the axil of each little leaf. The 

 sepals seemed united, and formed a sort of sheath-like bract, above 

 which the petal emerged. In this form they appeared as arrested 

 spikes. 



The Coronal Disk in Spiraea. Exhibiting some flowers of 

 Spiraea Reevesiana^ Mr. Meehan called attention to the elevated 

 disc which rose on the inner face of the line of filaments, and 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



pointed out the correspondence in outline of each division with 

 the form of the two-celled anther. The inner line of stamens 

 were alternate with these divisions, and the whole study led to 

 the conclusion that this little crown was composed of the imma- 

 ture anthers of abortive stamens. He referred to Acer ruhrum, 

 and other plants, where, in the abortion of stamens the anthers 

 were generally almost fully formed before the development of the 

 filament, and remarked that in trul}^ female flowers of this maple 

 there was a course of sterile anthers as in this Spirsea. 



March 16. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Yice-President, in the chair. 

 Sixteen persons present. 



March 23. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty-eight persons present. 



Fermentation in Perevji^s Fluid. Dv. Benjamin Sharp re- 

 marked that in a bottle of Perenji's fluid (nitric acid 10 per cent, 

 sol. 4 pts., Chromic acid ^ per cent. sol. 3 pts., 95 per cent. 

 Alcohol 3 pts.) effervescence was noticed. On shaking the bottle 

 and removing the cork the fluid frothed violently, resembling 

 very active beer ; when the frothing had to a certain extent sub- 

 sided, another shaking produced another violent frothing. The 

 fluid had been used for hardening chick emlnyoes,and the portion 

 used had been turned back so that a slight sediment was in the 

 bottom of the bottle, and from this sediment the frothing seemed 

 to originate. The sediment was examined with a high power 

 lens, and Bacteria were found in great numbers. Thej^ were 

 probably introduced with the sediment caused by the hardening 

 of the organic tissues upon which thej' lived. 



On the Eye of Pecten. Prof. Sharp further called the atten- 

 tion of the members to the eye of Pecten. In one of his articles 

 (On the Yisual Organs of the Lamellebranchiata, Mitth. 

 Zool. Stat. Neapel, 1884, p. 457), he makes the following asser- 

 tion : " The question as to the function of this organ (the so- 

 called eye of Pecten) is one of considerable interest. Hickson 

 states that a few experiments have been made on this subject, 

 concerning the visual power of this animal ; he says ' It is very 

 doubtful whether they (the so-called eyes) are of much value to 

 the animal in avoiding its enemies. The most reasonable theory 

 of their function seems to be that when in the ebbing tide, a 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



probability arises that they will be left high and dry on the shore, 

 the}^ can appreciate the fact b}'' the growing intensity of the light, 

 and by that peculiar flapping motion of the valves the Pectens 

 are so remarkable- for, move away into deeper water.' This 

 theory may at once be set aside when we consider that the Pec- 

 tens of the Mediterranean, where we have practically no tide at 

 all, a state of affairs that has existed for an exceedingly long 

 period of time, have as well developed eyes as those found on 

 shores where tides do exist ; and further, it seems hardly probable 

 that such a complicated organ would have developed to detei'- 

 mine for the animal whether it be out of water or not. . . . As 

 regards the complicated organ known as the eye, I might suggest 

 that, if this be an eye, it is one where we have no true pigmented 

 laj^er in any direct relation to either the nerve or the retina. The 

 mass of red pigment and the metallic-like tapetum would hardly 

 answer the place of the black choroid coat so essential to the 

 eye." 



Dr. Sharp stated that at the time the above was written, he 

 was under the impression that the organ was probably a phos- 

 phorescent organ, but he had no proof of it. At Nantucket he 

 obtained many specimens of the animal and. found that the edge 

 of the mantle was phosphorent, and on questioning Dr. Kite, 

 formerly of the " Fish-Hawk," who had often seen Pecten dredged 

 at night, he was informed that the phosphorent condition of Pec- 

 tens had often been observed. He thought it was not unreasona- 

 ble to suppose that organs for the emission of light should be 

 formed upon the same general principles as organs for the admis- 

 sion of light, hence the similarity of these organs to eyes. He 

 further stated that this function (phosphorescence) would be of 

 great use to the animal in obtaining its food. 



On Amia and its probable Taenia. Prof. Leidy stated that in 

 our market on Saturday last, three Mud-fishes, Amia calva, had 

 been given to him. They came in a barrel of shad from North 

 Carolina. One was a female about two feet long, the others male, 

 of which the smallest was eight inches. Protruding from the 

 vent of the latter was a little tape-worm, which, on disturbance, 

 retreated into the rectum. Three other worms of the same kind 

 were found in the mouth, but none were in the intestine of this or 

 the other fishes. The worms accord with the description of the 

 Tsenia filicolis, infesting Sticklebacks, Gasterosteus, and is prob- 

 ably the same species. They range from 1^ to 3 inches long, 

 gradually widening from the delicate thread-like neck to the pos- 

 terior rounded extremity where thc}^ measure from ! to TS mm. 

 wide. The head is spheroidal, variably broader or longer, and 

 about 0'625 mm.; with the summit slightly prominent and 

 unarmed, and with four hemispherical, lateral bothi'ia 0'25 mm. 

 in diameter. Neck variable ; when extended, long and narrow and 

 usually about half the width of the head. Anterior segments, 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



transversely linear, about an eighth the length of the hreadth ; 

 graduall}^ becoming inverted saucer-shaped or scutellate, and 

 about one-fourth the length of the breadth. Posterior segments 

 more quadrate, slightly widening behind, about 0'75 mm. long and 

 from 1- to 1-5 mm. broad. Last segment longest and rounded. 

 Genital apertures marginal. 



March 30. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 



Twelve persons present. 



Prof. J. C. Arthur was elected a correspondent. 



The following was ordered to be printed : 




64 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



REVISION OF THE PAL^OCRINOIDEA. 

 BY CHARLES WACHSMUTH AND FRANK SPRINGER, 



Part III Section II. 

 SuBOKDEK ARTICULATA. 



The Articulata include the group formerly defined by us under 

 the family name Ichth3'ocrinid{e, with the addition of Grotalo- 

 crinus and Enallocrinus, which possess in a remarkable degree 

 some of the most characteristic features of the group. We have 

 elsewhere shown that our former definition of the structure of 

 the ventral surface in the Ichthj'ocriuidae was faultj'^ in the use of 

 the word " soft," in which we did not have in mind the idea of 

 membranous as opposed to calcareous, or of disk as opposed to 

 vault, but simply employed the word to express more stronglj^ the 

 notion that the vault was not rigid. We maintain, however, that 

 the outer test of the ventral side in this group was a continuous 

 integument, composed of calcareous plates, united by ligament 

 and not by a close suture, and that by reason of this structure and 

 the articulation among the plates of the dorsal side it must have 

 been pliant or flexible. The exact nature of this integument we 

 do not know. The plates may have been arranged in various 

 waj^s ; they may even have been imbricated in some types like 

 the interambulacral plates in some Periechocrinidae, and even in 

 some of the true Echini these are points we may perhaps never 

 be able to settle. That there was an inner integument roofed in 

 and covered by the flexible vault we have mentioned, and that it 

 contained the summit plates and " covering pieces " we know to 

 be true in the Crotalocrinidae, and we think it altogether probable 

 that the general plan of the ventral structure for the Articulata 

 generally is expressed in that of Grotalocrinus. 



The eflfect of the patelloid plates, observed in Forhesiocrinus^ 

 in permitting mobility in the whole skeleton, has been heretofore 

 mentioned. The suggestions we then made are confirmed by the 

 discovery of the remarkable articulation not onl}'^ among the 

 radials themselves, but also between the radials and interradials 

 (PL 6, figs, 3-5). This articulate structure, and the consequent 

 mobility in the test, and flexibility^ of the vault, we consider 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 65 



chavacteristic of the whole group, though it may vary in degree, 

 and is probably far less perfect in some genera than in Forbesio- 

 crinus and Onychocrinus. 



Zittel (Handb. d. Palseont., i, p. 353-5-6), has separated the 

 genera which belong to this suborder into three families, viz.: = 

 Taxocrinidae, including: (A), Taxoc7'inus, Forbesiocrinus, Ony- 

 chocrinus, Gissocrinus, 3Iyelodactylus ; (B), Lecythocrinus (?), 

 Dactylocrinus {Dimerocrinus Pictet); Ichthyocrinidae, includ- 

 ing : Bomalocrinus, Lecanocrinus, Clidochirus, Mespilocrinus, 

 Ichthyocrinus, Anisocrinus and Pycnosaccus; Crotalocrinidse, 

 including Crotalocrinus, Enallocrinus, Gleiocrinus. Angelin 

 refers Taxocrinus, Forbesiocrinus, Gissocrinus and Myelodactylus 

 to the Taxocrinidse ; Ichthyocrinus and Pycnosaccus to the Ich- 

 thyocrinidffi ; Crotalocrinus to the Crotalocrinidse and Enallo- 

 crinus to the Enallocrinidae. 



The so-called genus Myelodactylus may be left out of consider- 

 ation. It was founded upon columns only, and, if correctly 

 identified by Angelin, which is improbable, it would not belong 

 to the Articulata at all. A separation of the genera included by 

 us in the Ichthyocrinidse into two families is desirable, but all 

 attempts to define satisfactory characters for such families have 

 so far failed. We have tried to arrange them according to Zittel's 

 definition as well as various plans of our own, but without success, 

 and we have come to the conclusion that the separation must be 

 based upon characters as yei undetected. It is a remarkable and 

 perplexing fact that in this whole group such characters as the 

 presence or alisence of interradials dorsally, the number of pri- 

 mary radials, or the position of the anal or azygous plate, whether 

 resting on the basals or not, seem to be of little value. 



Until some new light shall be obtained we see no other course 

 than to leave the family Ichthyocrinidse as we have already 

 defined it. 



Gissocrinus, which is placed by Angelin and Zittel among the 

 Taxocrinidse on account of having three underbasals, belongs to 

 the Fistulata, and has been referred by us to the Cyathocrinidae, 

 as have also Lecythocrinus and Dactylocrinus. In addition to 

 the genera formerly included by us, we refer C yrtidocrinus to 

 the Ichthyocrinidse. 



Gleiocrinus was independently referred by Zittel to the Crota- 

 locrinidse, and by us to the Ichthyocrinidffi. It differs from all 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADExMY OF [1886. 



other Articulata in the position of the interradials and may prove 

 to be the type of a distinct family. 



F. Roemer established the family Anthocrinidae to receive 

 Anthocrinus and Crotalocrinus, and Pictet, as Dnjardin and 

 Hup^, recognized the family Anthocrinidffi, but referred to it only 

 Anthocrinus. As Anthocrinus proves to be a synon3"m, the 

 family name will fall with it, and we shall distinguish the family 

 as Crotalocrinidae, and follow Zittel in referring to it Crotalo- 

 crinus, Enallocrinus, but not Gleiocrinus. 



The Crotalocrinidae are distinguished by the possession of a 

 ventral tube or anal appendage, located ventrally near the per- 

 iphery. In Crotalocrinus it consists of a tube composed of eight 

 A^ertical rows of heavy quadrangular pieces. In Enallocrinus its 

 form is unknown. The famil}^ differs from the Ichthyocrinidse 

 in a similar way as Platycrinidae from Actinocrinidie in that the 

 higher radials are imperfectly developed. 



The Articulata, therefore, fall into two families, which are 

 defined as follows : 



A. IcHTHYOCRiNiDiE. Basc dicyclic. Underbasals unequal, 

 proportionally very small, rarely visible externally. Basals gene- 

 rally small. Dorsal cup chiefly built up of radial plates of differ- 

 ent orders, abutting laterally against each other or separated by 

 interradials. Number of radials variable in genera, species and 

 individuals. Radial and arm plates decreasing in size in the suc- 

 cessive orders, each division being about half as wide as the 

 preceding one, and of uniform size in corresponding divisions of 

 the ray, but the plates of adjacent raj'^s generally alternate with 

 each other. The line of articulation between radials and arm 

 plates is frequently undulating, and there are sometimes additional 

 patelloid pieces. Arms uniserial, bifurcating, generally touching 

 laterall}^ so as to form a wall continuous with the calyx. Arm 

 plates with straight sides and very deep ambulacral grooves. 

 Pinnules apparently wanting. 



Interradial system chiefly developed on the ventral side. Spe- 

 cial anal plate sometimes resting on the basals, sometimes upon 

 the radials, and sometimes wanting dorsally. Anus unknown in 

 most of the genera. The radials are united longitudinally by 

 articulation, laterally b}^ ligament, the interradials among each 

 other and with the radials by a loose suture, admitting of motion 

 and producting flexibility in the calyx and vault. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 61 



B. CrotalocriniDuE. Base dicyclic. Underbasals unequal, 

 small. Basals generally large. Radials so far as known, 2X5. 

 Arras nniserial, with numerous branches, spreading broadly. The 

 branches of each raj' partly or completely connected by lateral 

 projections or direct union. When completely connected, they 

 form reticulated leaves overlapping when folded. Pinnules 

 wanting. Ambulacral fui'row deep, ramifying with the arm 

 branches, covered by alternating plates and bordered by side 

 pieces. The first anal plate rests on the basals ; it is followed by 

 others which form the base of a ventral tube. Interradials 

 numerous, covering the entire ventral surface, but not more than 

 one or two sometimes none are exposed dorsally. Calj^x roofed 

 over by a pliant integument of irregular plates, extending over 

 the arm bases, and enclosing the summit plates and covering 

 pieces of the disk. Ventral tube lateral. 



Family XI. -ICHTHYOCRINIDJE W. and Spr. 



We are of the opinion that some of the genera described by 

 Angelin are founded upon characters of specific value only, but 

 as the original specimens are unique and inaccessible to us, we 

 cannot, at present, undertake to review them. 



ICHTHYOCRINUS Conrad, Ecv. i, p. 33. 



No new species of Ichthyocrinus have been described since our 

 first list, in which, however, we omitted to notice Ichthyocrinus 

 arthriticus (d'Orbigny), mentioned in Prodr. i, p. 46, which is a 

 Gissocrinus, and also Ichthyocrinus capillar is and /. goniodac- 

 tijlus (d'Orbigny), which Phillips had correctly referred to 

 Gyathocrinus. 



HOMALOCRINUS Angl., Rev. i, p. 35. 



ANISOCRINUS Angl., Rev. i, p. 37. 



CALPIOCRINUS Angl., Rev. i, p. 38. 



LECANOCRINUS Hall, Rev. i, p. 39. 



1882. L. Soyei Oehlert. Bull. Soc. Geol. tie France (ser. 3), vol. x, p. 354, PI. 8, fig. 2. 

 Lower Devonian. Near Sabre, France, 

 Lecanocrinus elegans Billings, see Taxocrinus elegans Billings; Lecano- 

 criuus laevis, Taxocrinus laevis. 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



CYRTIDOCRINUS Angl., Rev. i, p. 145. 



Cyrtidocrinus was placed by xis among the " imperfectly known 

 genera," but should be referred to the Ichthyocrinidse, as it is 

 closely allied to Lecanocrinus, from which it differs only in having 

 four in place of three underbasals. Like that genus it has a small, 

 quadrangular azygous piece, placed obtusel}^ against the posterior" 

 basal, and between it and the right posterolateral radial. The 

 upper radials are extremely narrow. 



The only known species is Cyrtidocrinus fascietatus Angelin. 



PYCNOSACCUS Angl., Rev. i, p. 41. 



MESPILOCRINUS De Kon and Leh., Rev. i, p. 41. 



TAXOCEINUS Phill., Rev. i, p. 4.3. 



Additional species : 



*1884. Taxocrinus Beyrichi (Dewalque MS.) Fraipont, Zeacrinus Beyrichi ; Extr. 

 des Ann. de la Soc. G^ol. de Belg., Tome xi, p. 112, PI. 1, fig. 5. Dev. supe- 

 rieur. Senzeille, France. 

 1882. T. curtus Williams, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phi.'a., p. 30. Portage group. 

 Ithaca, N. Y. 

 *1856. T. elegans (Billings), Lecanocrinus elegans Rep. gfeol. Surv. Canada, p. 278; 

 also 1859, Decade iv, p. 47, pi. 4, fig. 4 a h. Trenton limest. City of Ottawa, 

 Can. We consider this species, and also Lecanocrinus laevis E. Billings, to 

 be Taxocrinus. They evidently possess no azygous plate, as they should 

 have if they belonged to Lecanocrinus. 

 Taxocriaus Egertoni ( Poteriocrinus Egertoni Phill. ^= Cladocrinus Eger- 

 toni Aust.), Rev. i, p. 48, is probably an Onychoorinus having 6-7 radials. 

 1882. Taxocr. Fletcheri, Bull, i, Illinois St. Mus. Nat. Hist., p. 31 ; also Geol. Rep. 



Illinois vii, p. 308, PI. 30, fig. 2. Kinderhook gr. Marshall Co., Iowa. 

 1882. T. ithacensis Williams, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 29, PI. 1, fig. 10. 

 Portage gr. Ithaca, N. Y. 

 *1856. T. laevis (E. Billings), Lecanocrinus laevis, Rep. Geol. Surv. Canada, p. 278; 

 also 1859, Decade iv, p. 47, PI. 4, fig, 3 . Trenton limestone. City of 

 Ottawa, Can. 

 *1836. T. nobilis (Phill.), Poteriocrinus nohilis Geol. Yorkshire, p. 205, PI. 3, fig. 

 40. This species has been regarded by some authorities as identical with 

 Forbesiocrinus nobilis De Kon. and Lehon ; but is in our opinion not 

 only specifically distinct, but in all probability a Taxocrinus. Mountain 

 limest. Bolland, Engl. 

 1852. T. oligoptylus (Pacht.). Dimerocrinus oligoptylus Beitr., x. Kenntniss der 

 Gattung Dimerocrinus, St. Peter^^burg, p. 8, with 3 plates. Devonian. 

 Costijitsi, Russia. 

 Syn. Dimerocrinus aptilis Pacht. 



N. B. Taxocrinus priscus (Schnur.) Steinninger, 1853, Geogr. 

 Beschr, d. Eifel, p. 37, is not sufficiently defined for identification. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



GNOKIMOCRINUS W. and Sp., Rev. i, p. 50. 

 FORBESIOCEINUS De Koninck, Rev. i, p. 51. 

 Additional species : 



1859. Forbesiocrinus Saffordi Hall, Suppl. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 87. Keokuk lime- 

 stone. AVhite's Creek, Tenn. 



1879. F. parvus Wetherby, Jour. Cinein. Soc. Nat. Hist. (October number), p. 5, PI. 

 11, tigs. 4 a h. Kaskaskia gr. Pula.ski county, Ky. 



N. B. Forbesiocrinus Whitfieldi Hall, which has been referred 

 to the genus Taxocrinus, according to Meek and Worthen (Geol. 

 Rep. Illinois, vol. v, p. 553), came from the Kaskaskia group, of 

 Randolph Co., 111., and not from the Keokuk limestone, as 

 stated by Hall. It also occurs at that horizon in Pulaski 

 Co., Ky. 



LITHOCRINUS W. and Sp., Rev. i, p. 52. 



ONYCHOCRINUS W. and Sp., Rev. i, p. 53. 



1882. Onychocrinus distensus Worthen, Bull. 111. St. Mus. Nat. Hist , p. 31, also 

 Geol. Rep. 111., vii, p. 307, PI. 29, fig. 5. Kaskaski gr. Monroe Co., 111. 

 (AVe are unable to distinguish this specimen from 0. cxsciilptus Lyon and 

 Cass.) 



NIPTEROCRINUS Wachsm., Rev. i, p. 55. 



Zittel (Handb. der Pal., p. 352) refers this genus to the Cyatho- 

 crinidse^ probably on account of its three small underbasals. 

 The presence of interradials clearlj^ removes it from that family, 

 and its waving sutures leave no doubt that it was properly 

 placed by us among the Ichthyocrinidse. 



Family XII. CROTALOCRINID^. 



CROTALOCRINUS Austin, 



1843. Austin, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., Ser. I, vol. xi, p. 198. 



1848. Moiris, Cat. Brit, Foss., Ed. 1, p. 50. 



1854. Salter, apud Murchison, Siluria, Ed. 2, p. 219. 



1855. McCoy, Brit. Pal. Foss., p. 55. 

 1873. Salter, Cat. Mus. Cambr., p. 123. 



1878. Angelin, Icon. Criu. Suec, p. 36, 



1879. Zittel, Handb. d. Pal,, i, p. 356. 



1882. De Loriol, Pal. d. France, tome 11, Crin., p. 51. 



Syn. Anthocrinus, 1853, Miiller, Abliandl, Aka. Berlin, p. 192 ; 

 1857. Pictet Traite de Pal., iv, p. 312 ; 1862. Dnjardin and Hupe, 

 Hist. Nat, Zooph. Echin., p. 117 ; 1855. Quenstedt, Handb. d. 

 Petref., iv, p. 943. 




*10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



Grotalocrinus was established by Austin in 1843 (Ann. and 

 Mag. Nat. Hist., p. 198), for the reception of a single species, 

 which was described by J. S. Miller, in 1821, as Gyathocrinus 

 rugosus, from a calyx without the arms. He had previously 

 used the name Grotalocrinites rugosus (1842, Ann. and Mag., 

 vol. X, p. 109), in his list of the class Pinnastella, and he referred 

 it to the Marsiqnocrinoidea. His original definition of the genus 

 is as follows : 



" Dorsocentral plates, 5 ; first series of perisomic plates, 5 ; 

 second series, 5. On the latter are a series of wedge-shaped 

 plates, which bear the rays ; the exact number of these plates is 

 unascertained. Column with a pentapetalous perforation." 



" C. rugosus. The plates surrounding the body agree with the 

 generic characters. Rays numerous, probably amounting to one 

 hundred. Column composed of thin joints, articulating into 

 each other by radiating strife. The columnar canal is penta- 

 petalous. The raj's are remarkabl}- small m proportion to the 

 size of the animal." 



McCoy, in 1854 (Brit. Pal. Foss.,p. 54),redescribed the genus, 

 but gave little additional information regarding it. He men- 

 tions the presence of an interradial plate in the " second peri- 

 somic row," and saj'S that above, and alternating with the 

 primary radials, are five large pentagonal secondary radials 

 (scapulae), completing the cup, on each of which rests a series of 

 small pentagonal plates, supporting for the width of each plate 

 a large number (? 15 or 16) of very slender long ra3's. Accord- 

 ing to McCoy, the genus "differs from Gyathocrinus in the vast 

 number of its rays." 



Hisinger (Leth. Suec. Supp., II, p. 6) described under the name 

 Gyathocrinus pulcher a specimen without arms which afterwards 

 proved to be of this genus. 



Johannes Miiller was the first to call attention to the remark- 

 able characters of this type exhibited in the brachial parts. In 

 1853 (Abh. Ak. Wiss. Berlin, p. 187, et seq.), he described, under 

 the head of " Crinoiden mit netzfdrmigen Handen," some speci- 

 mens from Gothland in which the arm structure was well shown. 

 He says he could not identify Hi singer's species because his 

 figure was too imperfect, although he thinks it may have belonged 

 to the same group. He also says that a specimen with arms and 

 branches somewhat resembling the net-form had been obtained 




ISSr),] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Tl 



from Dudley, which he acknowledges to be Gyathocrinus rugosus 

 Miller, but he expresses the opinion that the arms in the English 

 form are not laterally connected and that it must have had more 

 than five arms. Regarding, therefore, the English form as de- 

 scribed by Miller, Austin and McCoy as distinct from the Goth- 

 land form with reticulated arms, Miiller proposed for the latter 

 the genus Anthocrinus, of which there was but a single species, 

 A. Loveni. 



Angelin (Icon. Crin. Suec, p. 26), with the whole of the excel- 

 lent material from Gothland before him, finds that Anthocrinus 

 Loveni is a synonj^m of Hisinger's Gyathocrinus pulcher, and 

 that it belongs, along with G. rugosus, to Austin's genus Grotalo- 

 crinus, of which he also describes and figures a third species, G, 

 superbus. According to his definition of the genus, there are 

 five arms, connected at their bases by branches and pinnules, and 

 the pinnules, reticulatel^^ connected by narrow transverse joints, 

 form a broad plicatecf net. This reticulate structure, by which 

 all the ramifications of each ray throughout their entire length 

 are united into a net-work, seems to be the principal distinction 

 between this genus and the closely allied Enallocrinus, in which 

 the arm branches are transversely connected for a short distance 

 near the base, but are free for the greater part of their length. 

 Angelin uses the word " pinnules " carelessl}^, and it is evident 

 that in this case it means simplj- the ultimate divisions of the 

 arms. The character intended to be described by Angelin is 

 much better stated by Zittel (Handb, d. Pal., i, p. 356), and Jo- 

 hannes Miiller (1853, Berl. Akad., pp. 187-192). 



Generic Diagnosis. The calyx is constructed very similar to 

 that of the Cyathocrinidas. Its form is subglobose ; its sym- 

 metry bilateral. "With arms closed, the Crinoid resembles an 

 elongated bud with folded leaves. With outspread arms its 

 figure is that of a flattened disk with five deep, narrow, lanceolate 

 areas, which separate the rays. 



Base dicyclic, TJnderbasals 5, small, pentangular. Basals 5, 

 large, hexagonal and octagonal. Primary radials 2X5 ; the first 

 wider than high, excavated in the middle of the distal face for 

 the reception of a very small trigonal, bifurcating second radial, 

 upon which the arms originate and bifurcate in much the same 

 manner as in Marsupiocrinus. The lateral margins of the first 

 radials are very deeply incurved, extending between the arm 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



bases until they meet the tegminal plates on the ventral side. 

 The arms divide into numerous branches, which are connected 

 throughout their entire length, in such a way that the brachial 

 apparatus of the whole animal is included in five broad, net-like 

 leaves with inroUed edges, which when closed overlap each other. 

 These leaf-like arms are separated by very prominent, deep peta- 

 loid areas, whose margins are formed by the deeply incurved 

 lateral faces of the peripheral arm joints, and the radials which 

 are enormously thickened. When spread out, these connected 

 ra3'S would be free from contact with one another, and would 

 resemble the outstretched leaves of a pentapetaloid flower, but 

 folded together they overlap just as the closed leaves of a bud or 

 flower. The arm joints are disposed in regular dichotomizing 

 longitudinal rows, and also in regularly concentric transverse 

 rows, the alternate arrangement of joints of adjacent branches 

 being absent here. The arm branches are transversely com- 

 pressed and flattened, very deep in proportion to their width, 

 meeting throughout their entire length by their lateral surfaces. 

 Upon the dorsal side, the branches are laterally connected by 

 points of attachment projecting from the middle of each point, or 

 by direct contact of the sides of the joint, in such a way as to 

 produce a reticulated structure composed of numerous small 

 meshes. The projection of the points of attachment from the 

 middle of the joints gives them the appearance, when seen from 

 the dorsal side, of a cross with short arms, and the network ap- 

 pears to have regular cross-shaped meshes. At the lower part of 

 the arms the joints are not cross-shaped, but meet directly by 

 their sides, and the reticulate appearance is not so marked as 

 higher up. The whole structure of these leaf-like ra^^s is adapted 

 to the greatest flexibility in all directions, and we think it prob- 

 able that the meshes of the network were occupied by elastic 

 connective substance of some kind. The joints are flat on the 

 dorsal side ; near the calyx they are extremely thick from the 

 dorsal to the ventral side, the thickest being those which rest 

 upon the radials, and they decrease rapidly toward the extremities 

 of the rays. The articular faces at the ends of the joints are 

 provided with an axial canal. Along the ventral side the joints 

 are deeply excavated for the ambulacral furrow, which ramifies 

 with the arm branches throughout their length. The furrow is 

 lined at each side by a row of small side pieces, three to foiir to 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPmA. *IB 



each arm joint, which inclose in the middle two rows of covering 

 plates, alternately arranged, of equal number with the side pieces. 



The dorsal cup is roofed over and covered by an integument of 

 comparatively heavy interradial plates of irregular arrangement, 

 which extend out some distance over the rays and enclose the 

 bases of the arms, but in no sense constitute or include covering 

 plates of the arms, as Angelin's figure (PI. xxv, fig. 15) clearly 

 shows. The plates at the margin of this integument meet and 

 connect with the incurved edges of the radials and peripheral 

 row of arm joints, which are proportionally much thicker than 

 those of other parts of the ray. The arms, with their covering 

 plates, which are laterally connected without the interposition of 

 interradlals or interaxillaries, emerge from underneath this 

 integument, which must have been pliant to admit of the varieties 

 of positions assumed. Also the summit plates oral and proxi- 

 mals must have been located beneath this integument, or we 

 could not understand their position and relation to the covering 

 pieces which are represented by Angelin's figure on PI. xvii, fig. 

 3 a. Only occasionally the first interradial is visible dorsally; 

 the dorsal cup, however, includes always a comparatively large 

 subquadrangular anal plate, which rests between the radials and 

 upon a hexagonal basal. This supports a very long, tapering, 

 lateral ventral tube, which rises between the arms. It is com- 

 posed of vertical rows of short, transverse pieces, and its walls 

 are pierced by numerous pores. 



The calyx plates appear to be united by syzygy, in part at 

 least, and the lines of junction are marked by pits and clefts 

 which penetrate deeply into the walls, as shown in fig. 4, PI. viii, 

 of Angelin, 



Column heavy, round, composed of thin joints, whose articular 

 faces are traversed by small radiating canals, which form pores 

 on the external surface. Axial canal large, pentangular. 



Geological Position, etc. Upper Silurian of Gothland and 

 England. 



These species have been described : 



1821. Crotalocrinus rugosus Miller, Cyathocrinus rugosus Nat. Hist. Crin., p. 

 Sy, pts. 1 A 4 B. 1808. Parkinson, Turban or Shropshire Encrinite, 

 Org. Rem., Vol. ii, p. 19.3, PI. 15, figs. 4, 5. 1837. Hisinger, Cyathocrinus 

 rugosus, Leth. Suec, p.89, Tab. xxv, fig. 3a; also Antekni, Heft iv, p. 217, 

 Tab. vii, fig. .3. 1839. Phillips, Cyathocrinus rugosus Phillips, apud 

 Murchison's Sil. Syst, p. 672, Tab. 18, fig. 1. 1843. Austin, Ann. and Mag. 



6 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



Nat. Hist., Ser. 1, Vol. xi, p. 198. 1S4.3. Morris, Cat. Brit. Foss., Ed. 1, p. 



50. 1850. D'Orbigny, Cyathocrinus rugosus, Prodr. d. Pal., Vol. i, p. 46. 



1854. Salter, apud Murchison, Siluria, Ed. 2, p. 219, figs. 4-7, Tab. 13, 



fig. 3. 1855. McCoy, Br. Pal. Foss., p. 55. 1873. Salter, Cat. Mus. Cambr., 



p. 123. 1878. Angelin, Icon. Crin. Suec, p. 26, Tab. vii, fig. 4; Tab. xvii, 



figs. 3, Sa-b, 8, 8a. 1879. Zittel, Handb. d. Pal., i, p. 357, fig. 244. 1885. 



Quenstedt, Handb. d. Petref., iv, 942, Tab. 75, figs. 2, 3. Upper Silurian. 



Gothland, Sweden, and Dudley, England. 

 1840. C. pulcher Hisinger, Cyathocrinus pulcher, Leth. Suec. Supp. ii, p. 6, Tab. 



xxxix, figs. 5 a, h. 1878. Angelin, Icon. Crin. Suec, p. 26, Tab. vii, figs. 



6-7, 7a-b; Tab. viii, figs. 1-9 a; Tab. xvii, figs. 1, 1 a-d ; Tab. xxv, figs. 



8-20.-1879. Zittel, Handb. d. Pal., i, p. 357, figs. 2, 4. 4 a-d. Syn., 



Anthocrinus Loveni Job. Miiller, 1853, Abh. d. Berl. Akad., p. 192, Tab. 



viii, figs. 1-11. Pictet, 1857, Tr. d. Pal., iv, p. 312, PI. c, fig. 8. Dujardin 



& Hupe, Hist. Nat. Zooph. Echin., p. 117. Quenstedt, 1885, Handb. d. 



Petref., iv, p. 943, Tab. 75, figs. 4, 5 ; Petref. Deutschl., iv, p. 508, Tab. 108, 



fig. 13. Upper Silurian. Gothland, Sweden. 

 1878. C. superbus Angelin, Icon. Crin. Suec., p. 26, Tab. xvii, figs. 2, 2 a-h. Upper 



Silurian. Gothland, Sweden. 



ENALLOCRINUS d'Orbigny. 



1850. D'Orbigny, Prodr. de Pal., Vol. i, p. 46 ; Cours Elem., ii, p. 143. 



1854. Salter, apud Murchison, Siluria. Ed. 2, p. 218. 



1857. Pictet, Traite de Pal., iv, p. 320. 



1862. Dujardin and Hupe, Hist. Nat. Zooph. Echin., p. 134. 



1878. Angelin, Icon. Crin. Suec, p. 25. 



1879. Zittel, Handb. d. Pal., i, p. 356. 



Syn., Apiocrinites (Hisinger) in part ; Millcricrinus (d'Orbigny) in part. 



In 1850 d'Orbigny established this genus to receive two 

 species, which had been noticed and figured by Hisinger as 

 Apiocrinus scriptus and A. punctatus. Only the calj'x was then 

 known, and the generic definition simply stated that this was 

 composed of five depressed basals, five large " subradials " and 

 five "brachials." He placed the genus in the family Melocrinidae, 

 while Pictet, and also Dujardin and Hupe, referred it to the 

 Cyathocrinidae. Angelin makes it a distinct family, and Zittel 

 considers it as belonging to the Crotalocrinidffi. It is clearly 

 separated from the Inadunata by the fact that its radial divisions 

 are connected either by direct union or by interradial plates 

 between the secondary radials. Although Angelin, in his defini- 

 tion of the genus (Icon. Crin. Suec, p. 25), states " interradialia 

 nulla," his figures demonstrate their undoubted presence both on 

 the dorsal and ventral side (PI. xv, figs, la, 3a; PI. xxv, figs. 4, 4a). 

 It appears from these illustrations that in some cases the corres- 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. T5 



ponding radials of adjacent rays meet again above the inter- 

 radials, just as in some species of Ichthyocrinus and Batocrinus. 



The genus differs from GrotalociHnus^ its nearest ally, in the 

 absence of the reticulate arm structure, although there is a 

 lateral connection between the arm branches for some distance 

 above their bases ; also in the alternate arrangement of adjacent 

 rows of arm joints. The construction of the ventral covering is 

 apparently the same in both forms. There is, however, a differ- 

 ence in the mode of union of the calyx plates, the lines of 

 junction in Enallocrinus, showing strong indications of an artic- 

 ulation, as we judge from Angelin's figs. 1, 4, and 4 a, of PL xxv. 

 Angelin united the two types of Hisinger under his first species 

 U. scriptiis^ and described one new species. 



Generic Diagnosis. The calyx differs but little from that of 

 Grotalocrinus, and when the arms are spread this produces a 

 similar discoid figure, and lanceolate areas similar to those of 

 that genus. The calyx is depressed, broadly expanding, com- 

 posed of thick plates with deeply beveled sutures, indicating a 

 union by articulation. Base dicyclic ; symmetry bilateral ; under- 

 basals 5, depressed, linear; basals 5, large, hexagonal, angular 

 above, except on the anal side ; radials 2X5, the first one wide, 

 with its distal face occupied by a deep lunate excavation, which 

 is filled by the second radial and the two first arm joints. Lateral 

 faces of first radials deeply incurved between the arm bases, and 

 meeting tegminal plates on the ventral side. Second radial 

 trigonal or pentagonal, and on its superior sloping margins the 

 arms bifurcate as in Marsupiocrinus. The first arm-joint small, 

 linear, sometimes coalesced with the second ; the second small, 

 axillary ; arms broad, thick, composed of short uniserial joints, 

 dichotomizing frequently. The branches are laterally connected 

 near their bases, but throughout the greater portion of their 

 length are free. Arm joints alternating with those of adjacent 

 rows. As in Grotalocrinus, the outer sides of the peripheral rows 

 of the rays are the thickest, and the deep inward curvature of 

 their exterior lateral faces leaves similar large petaloid or lanceo- 

 late areas. The exterior ventral margins of the incurved radials 

 of the first and higher orders, and some of the lower arm joints, 

 connect with the plates of the ventral covering, which is of a 

 similar nature as that of Grotalocrinus. Ambulacral furrow deep, 

 dichotomizing with the arm branches, bordered by two rows of 




T6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



small alternating side pieces, and covered along the median line 

 by two rows of saumpliittchen. 



Anal plate one, in line with first radials. Of the numerous 

 interradials only one or two are exposed dorsally, and these are 

 succeeded veutrally by an indefinite number of other vault plates. 

 Ventral tube lateral, its construction unknown. Column strong, 

 round, with short joints; axial canal large, round or obtusely 

 pentangular. 



Geological rosition, etc. Upper Silurian ; known only from 

 Gothland, Sweden. 



Two species have been recognized : 



3828. Enallocrinus scriptus Ilisinger (Cyathocrinites?), Anteckn iv, ji. 217: Tab. 

 V, fig. 9; Tab. vii, fig. 1. 1831. (Apiocrinites (?) scriptus), Anteckn v, p. 

 123, Esquisse d. tab. petrif. d. Swede, p. 23. 1837. Leth. Suec, p. 89, Tab. 

 XXV, figs. 1 and 2. D'Orbigny, 1840 (Millericrinus scriptus), Hist. Nat. 

 Crin., p. 94, PI. xvi, fig. 29. 1850. Prodr. d. Pal. i, p. 46. Angelin, 1878, Icon. 

 Crin. Suec,, p. 25, Tab. vii, figs. 1-3 a; Tab. ix, figs. 18 and 19; Tab. xxv, 

 figs. 1-7; Tab. xxvii, figs. 17-20 a. Upper Silurian. Gothland, Sweden. 

 Spi. Enallocrinus punctatus Hisinger, Leth. Suec, p. 89. Millei'icrinus 

 punctatus d'Orbigny, Hist. Nat. Crin., p. 94, Pi. xvi, fig. 30. Enallocrinus 

 punctatus Salter, apud Murchison, Siluria, Ed. 2, p. 218. Anthocrinus 

 scriptus and A. punctatus, Quenstedt, Handb. d. Petref. iv, p. 944, Tab. 

 75, tigs. 6, 7. 



1878. E. assulosus Angelin, Icon. Crin. Suec, p. 26, Tab. xv, figs. 1-4. Upper 



Silurian. Gothland, Sweden. 



CLEIOCRINUS Billings. 



1856. Geol. Surv. Canada, p. 276. 

 1859. Ibid, Decade IV, p. 52. 



1879. "Wachsm. and Spr., Rev. i, p. 35. 

 1879. Zittel, Handb. d. Pal., i. 357. 



Cleiocrinus in its general habitus has close aflfinities with the 

 Ichthyocrinidse and Crotalocrinidse^ and this has induced us to 

 place it provisionally with the Articulata, without assigning it to 

 any special family, although it diff'ers in two important points. 

 Cleiocrinus^ contrary to all other Articulata, has an interradial 

 in lateral contact with the first radials, forming a ring Avith them, 

 and the plates of the calyx apparently were not articulated in a 

 strict sense. Zittel has referred the genus to the Grotalocrinidse^ 

 while we placed it in Part I with the Ichthyocrinidse. If certain 

 parts were better known, we should make it the type of a new 

 family, but at present, having no positive knowledge of the 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. TT 



basal regions, nor even of the arms, we are not in a position to 

 give a satisfactory definition of the group. 



In order to obtain some additional information, we applied to 

 our friend, Walter R. Billings, who, with his usual kindness, has 

 furnished us the diagrammatic sketch of the type-specimen, 

 which is reproduced on Plate 9, fig. 5. The suture lines of all 

 plates above the primary radials, vertically and horizontally, are 

 provided with a kind of minute pores ; which, it seems to us, 

 indicates a union by syzygy, and not by articulation, and that 

 the arm structure was altogether different from that of the other 

 Articulata. Mr. Billings informs us that " the plates are all 

 joined together, but where the strain in crushing has acted upon 

 the specimen, the cracks or gaping sutures are preferably on the 

 lines of the grand divisions, i. e., the lines dividing the arms 

 from one another and from the anal series." This parting of the 

 plates, however, does not indicate necessarily a leaf-like struc- 

 ture of the rays, as in the case of Grotalocrinus^ for all plates 

 united by syzygy, as a rule, come easily apart. 



Mr. Billings informs us that tlie ridges of the column are inter- 

 radial in position, which confirms the supposition made by us 

 (Part I, p. 36 \ that Gleiocrinus possesses underbasals, and that 

 the so-called basals of E. Billings are interradials. He also states 

 that the lowest visible circlet of plates " apparently overlaps the 

 column, instead of passing under it," which shows that the base 

 must have been concave, with ample space for the basals and 

 underbasals to lie concealed from view. We have indicated the 

 basals and underbasals in the diagram by dotted lines. 



It will be useful to give an amended 



General Diagnosis. General form obconical ; with bilateral 

 symmetr3^ Base dicyclic. Underbasals probably 3, minute or 

 rudimentary. Basals probably 5, small and hidden by the 

 column. Primary radials 3X5, increasing in width upwards, 

 supporting several superior orders of radials, dichotomizing 

 frequently and uniformly, and interlocking with those of 

 adjoining rows. 



The rays and their divisions are laterally connected, without 

 the intervention of interradial plates, except at the anal side 

 and along the first primary radials. The first radials are much 

 smaller than the succeeding ones, and separated from one another 

 by a comparatively large pentangular interradial. The inter- 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



radial of the posterior side is quadrangular, and supports a longi- 

 tudinal row of anal plates, which extend to the full length of the 

 calyx, and in their form closely resemble the radials. Arms 

 apparently recumbent. Column more or less obtusely pen- 

 tagonal ; axial canal large. 



Geological Position, etc. Lower Silurian, Canada. No addi- 

 tional species have been described. 



SuBORDEK INADUNATA. 

 a. Branch, Larviforviia. 



The Larviformia comprise the families : Haplocrinidse , Sym- 

 hathocrinidse, Gupressocrinidee and Gasterocomidse. 



The Haplocrinidse are the simplest brachiate Crinoids and 

 may be regarded as representing the larva, not only of the 

 Inadunata but of the Palaeocrinoidea generally. Even the most 

 complicated Platycrinoid or Actinocrinoid must have passed in 

 its early life a stage in which radials and interradials consisted of 

 but a single ring of plates when we think the interradials covered 

 the entire ventral surface. This stage is probably represented by 

 the young Allagecrinus. In Haplocrinus the conditions are essen- 

 tially the same, but here the interradials already began partly to 

 open out, and the oral plate made its appearance upon the surface. 

 It is very possible that also the growing Allagecrinus before 

 reaching maturit}' attained this condition, or perhaps even the 

 condition of Symbathocrinus, hut in default of any such evidence, 

 we refer the genus for the present to the Haplocrinid?e. 



The Haplocrinidse are very closely allied to the Sj'mbatho- 

 crinidse, and it is a question with us, whether it would not be 

 better to unite them under one family. Both are built essentially 

 on the same plan, but the S3'mbathocrinidie at least their 

 typical genus had proximals, and, as a rule, a somewhat higher 

 developed mode of articulation. The articular facet in the 

 Symbathocrinidae forms a straight horizontal line, it is extended 

 into a large muscle-plate, and this covers the greater part of the 

 ventral cavity, leaving only a small median space, which is covered 

 either by the interradials and an oral plate as probably in Fiso- 

 crinus, or by interradials and a full set of summit plates as in 

 the case of Symbathocrinus. In the Haplocrinidse the inter- 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP THILADELPHIA. 79 



radials ^ are comparatively large, and rest upon the upper face of 

 the main part of the radials ; in Synibathocrinus small, placed 

 against the distal ends of their limbs, and separated by radial 

 dome plates. In the Haplocrinidoe the anal opening penetrates 

 one of the interradials, and also probably in Pisocrinus, Stor- 

 thingocrinus and Stylocrinus ; in Symbathocrinus and Fhimo- 

 crinus it is placed along the suture of two adjacent muscle-plates. 

 This position of the anal opening between the muscle-plates is a 

 peculiarity found exclusively among the Larviformia ; we meet 

 with it again in Cupressocrinidse, and in a somewhat different 

 form among Gasterocomidse. 



The Cupressocrinidse and Gasterocomidae are dicyclic Crinoids, 

 containing within their basal ring an undivided plate in form of 

 a disk. The disk is pierced by sevei'al large openings, a central 

 one which represents the axial canal, and by four (exceptionally 

 three or five) peripheral ones, which are continued to the whole 

 length of the column. The other two families have only a central 

 opening, which is small. Dr. P. H. Carpenter, whom we consulted 

 as to the functions of these openings, thinks it " very probable 

 that the periplieral ones represent downward extensions of the 

 body cavity in which water circulated ; while there was an exha- 

 lant or outgoing current through the interradial (so-called anal) 

 opening with which the intestine was related, so that faecal matter 

 could be carried away from the creature, very much as it is by the 

 circulation through the dorsal and ventral siphons of a Solen or 



The specimens for which Hall (18G2, 15th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab. 

 Nat. Hist.) proposed the name Ancyrocrinus are evidently 

 crinoidal stems with four peripheral canals, and as such may 

 belong to Myrthillocrinus or some other genus of this family. 

 There are at the lower end four lateral appendages, which in our 



^ If the five ventral plates in Haplocrinus and the allied Allagecrinus 

 were orals, as Dr. P. H. Carpenter suggests, it would follow that these 

 two genera exceptionally had no interradials, and vary on this point from 

 all other Palseocrinoidea. To this we had reference on p. 72, but in place 

 of stating, as we intended, "Carpenter denies the interradials to he present 

 always in Palseocrinoids," we made the erroneous statement: "C. denies 

 that interradials are present as a rule in Palaeozoic Crinoids." The correc- 

 tion was made throughout our own edition, but we discovered the error 

 too late to rectify it in the Proceedings of the Philadelphia Academy. 




80 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [188G. 



opinion are a kind of radicular cirrlii. In a specimen from tlie 

 Canada Survey Museum of Ottawa we found tlie lower face of 

 the stem covered by a calcareous deposit closing the canals. 

 This deposit appears to have been of a similar nature to that 

 which closes the centro-dorsal of Comatula and the nodal stem 

 joints of the Pentacrini, which, according to Wyville Thomson 

 and Carpenter (Chall. Rep., pp. 18, 19), occasionally break their 

 stems at a syz^'gy so as to become free. In the case of Ancyro- 

 crinus, however, the stem may have become detached and the 

 free state been the rule in the adult, as those stems with their 

 anchor attached are found in great abundance. 



The bottom plate in the calyx of the Gupressocrinidse and Gas- 

 terocomidas^ which we take to be a coalesced underbasal disk, has 

 been described heretofore as representing the upper joint of the 

 column, because the plate, at least in the adult, is undivided. 

 It is, however, well known that a fusion of one or more plates 

 takes place not only among basals, but also among unclerbasals ; 

 while, on the other hand, the columnar joints, which in most of 

 the Grinoidea are undivided, sometimes are tri- and quinque- 

 partite. The plate of Gupressocrinus unquestionably has the 

 position of the united underbasals ; it forms, like them, a part of 

 the calyx, as much so as the basals of Dolatocrinus and Stereo- 

 crinus, in which, as a general rule, the sutures are totally 

 obliterated, and in which the basal disk resembles most remark- 

 ably the underbasal disk in this family. It is to be regretted 

 that neither the central canal nor the angles of the column in 

 Gupressocrinus give any light on this question, the former being 

 circular, the column quadrangular ; but it seems to us that the 

 plate, if really representing a stem-joint, should be quadrangular, 

 in accordance with the other stem-joints in this genus, and not 

 pentangular, as we always find it. 



The muscle-plates of the Gupressoc7nnidee have a more hori- 

 zontal position than in the Symbathocrinidse^ and those of 

 different rays are laterally anchylosed, so as to form an annular 

 plate with a central opening. There is, besides, an interradial 

 lateral opening, and five pairs of radial ones. The central space 

 was probably covered by interradial and summit plates, but these 

 occupied a comparatively small space of the ventral surface, the 

 larger portion being covered by the muscle-plates. The inter- 

 radial opening represents the anus, the outer radial ones the 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 81 



axial canals, tlie inner and larger ones are probably ambulacral 

 openings. 



The arms of the Gasterocomidse have similar axial canals as 

 those of the Gupressocrinidse^ but these face outward, while the 

 others are directed upward. This is readily explained b}' the 

 condition of their articular facets, which are lateral, horseshoe- 

 shaped, and do not extend over the whole width of the plates. 

 The articular facets of the radials throughout this family, 

 instead of bending over to the ventral side, stand erect as in 

 Platycrinus, and their outer ends support the interradials in a 

 similar manner as in that genus. In accordance with this struc- 

 ture, it is evident that, if the anal opening was to occupy a posi- 

 tion corresponding to that of Symbathocrinus and Cupressocrinus, 

 it had to be located, as it is throughout this group, dorsally 

 between the upper portions of the radials, which resemble struc- 

 turally, if not quite functionally, the extensions of the muscle- 

 plates in the other groups. The radials of the Gasterocomidse 

 have limb-like extensions, they are simply notched for the ambu- 

 lacral canal, and their axial opening penetrates the median por- 

 tions of the plates. 



The Larviforniia agree with the Blastoids as to certain condi- 

 tions of their arm structure (see our notes on Gupressocrinus) , 

 and probably possessed hydrospires and hydrospire pores to 

 connect with the ambulacra ; Gupressocrinus even had similar 

 pinnules. The arms are simple throughout, but some of the 

 radials, exceptionally, support two arms. The arms were united 

 with the radials by strong muscles; but the arm-plates among 

 each other, so far as known, were suturally connected and moved 

 in a body. 



We give the following definitions of the four families : 



A. Haplocrinid^. Dorsal cup small, composed of basals and 

 radials ; covered ventrally by five large single interradial plates, 

 which form a pyramid. These plates are supported upon the 

 outer ends of two adjoining radials, and are united with one 

 another, leaving only a small ambulacral opening. There is no 

 anal plate; the anal aperture, so far as known, penetrates the 

 upper part of one of the interradials. Column with small 

 central canal. 



B. Symbathocrinid^. Dorsal cup small ; composed of basals 

 and radials only. The latter are provided with large muscle- 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



plates, which are connected by suture, except at their inner 

 ends, where they leave generally a slit-shaped opening. The 

 muscle-plates extend over the greater part of the ventral surface, 

 and constitute a more or less elevated pyramid, with an open 

 space in the centre. The central space is closed by cornpara- 

 tivel}' small interradials and the summit plates ; the latter, as a 

 rule, are more extensively developed than in the Haplocrinidse. 

 The arms are extremely long, closely folded together. They are 

 composed of quadrangular joints, suturally connected, and 

 moved upon the radials by means of strong muscles. The anal 

 opening, where it has been observed, is intermediate between two 

 muscle-plates. Column round, with a small central canal. 



(7. CuPRESsocRiNiD^. Calyx large. Base dicyclic. Theunder- 

 basals are anchylosed, and form a solid disk, which is succeeded 

 by five basals. The radials are provided with large muscle-plates, 

 which are laterally anchylosed, and form a continuous plate cov- 

 ering a large portion of the bod}^ It stands on a level with the 

 upper faces of the- radials, and is pierced by the anus and the 

 ambulacral openings. The arms are simple, closely folded to- 

 gether, and composed of massive, wide, quadrangular pieces, 

 which, being connected by suture, moved in a body upon the 

 radials. Column strong, containing a large central canal sur- 

 rounded by peripheral ones. 



D. Gasterocomid.e. Base dicyclic ; basals and underbasals as 

 in the Cupressocrinidte. Radials large; their articular facet 

 lateral, horseshoe-shaped, covering almost the whole outer face of 

 the plates. They are provided with large axial openings, which 

 occupy the median portions of the facets, and are notched at their 

 upper end to pass in the ambulacral canal. The anal opening is 

 dorsal, placed between two radials, and either succeeds the anal 

 plate, or this succeeds the opening. The interradial plates are 

 small occupying the equatorial zone. The oral plate is very 

 large, excentric, and surrounded by four large proximals, its pos- 

 terior side resting against the radials. Arms recumbent or widely 

 divergent. 



Family XIII. HAPLOCRINIDtE. 



Under this family we place only the two genera Haplocrinus 

 and Allagecrinus. Roemer referred to it Haplocrinus and Gocco- 

 crinus, in which he was followed by Zittel and S. A. Miller. 

 Schultze, like us, referred Goccocrinus to the Platycrinidse, but 




188G.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



added Triacrinus, which Zittel, Angeliii and Miller made the type 

 of a distinct family. We admit there are close affinities between 

 Haplocrinus, Triacrinus and Pisocrinus, but we believe the last 

 .two are closer allied to Symbathocrinus (see our notes on the 

 SymbathocrinidiB). Pictet refers to the Haplocrinidae : Haplo- 

 crinus, Goccocrinus^ Myrtillocrinus^ Ceraviocrinus, Ej)a,ctocrinus 

 and G aster ocoma ; Dujardin and Hupd: Haplocrinus, Gocco- 

 crinus, Myrtillocrinus and Stephanocrinus. D'Orbigny arranged 

 his " Aplocrinidse " between the Pentremitidse and Cupresso- 

 crinidae. 



In Troost's catalogue of 1850 we find the following names: 

 Haplocrinus granulatus^ H. hemisphericus, H. maximus and H. 

 ouaZis, which have not been defined, and are species of Pisocrinus 

 and Triacrinus. Haplocrinus anmilaris and H. monile were 

 defined by Eichwald from pieces of the column. 



HAPLOCRINUS Steininger. 



(PI. 5, figs. 1, 2.) 



1834. Steininger, Bull. Soc. geol. de France (Ser. i), vol. viii, p. 231. 



1844. F. Roemer, Rhein. Uebergangsgebirge, p. 63. 



1849. Steininger, Versteinerungen der Eifel, p. 20. 



1853. Steininger, Geognostische Beschr. d. Eifel, p. 36. 



1852. Quenstedt, Handb. d. Petrefactenkunde, p. 624. 



1855. J. Mtiller, Verb, naturh. Verein, Jahrg. xii, p. 21. 



1855. F. Roemer, Lethaea Geogn. 1855 (Ausg. 3), p. 260. 



1857. Pictet, Traite de Paleont., iv, p. 308. 



1862. Dujardin & Ilupe, Hist, natur. des Zoophytes Ecliin., p. 105. 



1862. Hall, 15th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab. Nat. Hist, p. 143. 



1866. Scbultze, Echin. Eifel Kalk., p. 103. 



1868. De Koninck, Bull. d. I'Acad. Roy. d. Belg. (Ser. 2), Tome iii (Extr. 



p. 63). 

 1879. Zittel, Handb. d. Palseont., i, p. 347. 



1882. Quenstedt, Handb. d. Petrefactenkunde (Ausg. 3), p. 964. 

 1885. P. H. Carpenter, Chall. Rep. Crinoidea, p. 158, etc. 



Syn. Eugeniacrinites Goldfuss (in part), 1826, Petref. Germ, i, 

 p. 213. 



Syn. Aplocrinus d'Orbigny, Prodr. i, p. 102. 



Syn. (?) DimorpJiocrinus d'Orbigny (Zittel). 



The first species of this genus was described by Goldfuss under 

 Eugeniacrinites mespiliformis. Goldfuss did not know the con- 

 struction of the plates, nor did Steininger who described the 

 same species under Haplocrinus spaeroideus. F. Roemer, in 1844, 

 gave a good description of the plates, but his way of interpreting 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



them was rather peculiar. According to his diagnosis, the calj'x 

 of Haplocrinus is composed of five basals. These, as he states, 

 alternate with five " para-basals," of which three are separated 

 from the basals by intervening plates (Costalglieder). H& 

 states further that, placed upon the sutures of two adjoining 

 " para-basals," there are five simple arms, which in their closed 

 condition form a pentamerous " Scheitelpjn-amide." If it were 

 true that the latter plates, which at their lateral union form con- 

 spicuous grooves, were arras, this Crinoid would have no radials, 

 and the basals would be radially disposed, contrarj^ to the funda- 

 mental rules of the class. The ventral pyramid had been errone- 

 ously described by Goldfuss as composed of five series of eight 

 to ten pieces longitudinally arranged, and it was this, likely, 

 which misled Roemer. The fact, however, is that the ventral 

 surface is covered by five single trigonal pieces, arranged alter- 

 nately with the upper ring of plates in the dorsal cup, and that 

 the latter plates, as Goldfuss correctly stated, are provided with 

 an articular facet upon which the arms moved. This was con- 

 firmed by Miiller's observation, who, in 1855, discovered in one of 

 his specimens, resting upon the facet, a small brachial. 



Allman was the first writer who undertook to homologize the 

 five ventral plates of Haplocrinus, Goccocrinus and Stephanocri- 

 nus with the orals of recent Crinoids. It seems, however, that he 

 was not aware of Miiller's discover}^ of arm joints, for he supposed 

 that all those genera possessed recumbent ambulacra. A similar 

 view was held by d'Orbigny, Schultze calls the ventral plates 

 " interradiale Pyramidenstiicke." Zittel describes the " Kelch- 

 decke " to be composed of " fiinf grossen, im Centrum zusammen- 

 stossenden, dreieckigen Oral-platten, welche eine Pyramide bilden, 

 und zwischen sich fiinf breite, gerade, durch die abgeschragten 

 Seitenflachen begrenzte,nach unten geschlossene, nach oben oflfene 

 Ambulacralfurchen bilden." There is nothing to confirm this 

 view, and, in fact, we do not know how this could have been 

 possible. It is difficult to see what office the so-called " open 

 ambulacral groove " could have had, especially if Haplocrinus 

 possessed arms, as Prof. Zittel admits. The grooves, evidently, 

 are mere compartments for the reception of the arms, and served 

 for their protection. Carpenter agrees with Zittel that the ven- 

 tral plates are orals, but opposes his open ambulacra. He regards 

 the o-enus to be " permanently in the condition of a Pentacrinoid 

 larva with a closed tentacular vestibule." We fully agree with 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 85 



liim that Haplocrinus is a persistent larval form, but do not 

 understand how the five large plates, which occupy almost the 

 entire ventral surface, and as much as one-half of the whole test, 

 possibly can represent the orals in a Paloeocrinoid, as all other 

 genera of this group in which the ventral covering has been 

 observed, have largely developed interradials, and these, whether 

 composed of one or a series of plates, extend up invariably to a 

 comparatively small area surrounding the peristome. We, there- 

 fore, regard the small central piece as the homologue of the orals, 

 and not the five large plates which we take to be interradials. 



The basals of Haplocrinus were described by Dujardin and 

 Hupe to be composed of three pieces in place of five. The three 

 small plates alternating with the basals, the " Costalglieder " of 

 Roemer, which are radial in position and support three of the 

 arm-bearing plates, were called b^' Schultze " parabasalia," by De 

 Koninck " subradials," while Miiller, Pictet and Zittel called them 

 "first radial plates." The term parabasals was used by Schultze 

 for basals in dicyclic Crinoids, and, therefore, cannot be applied 

 to radial plates, neither can the name " subradials," as also this 

 term has been used in the same sense. We regard the three plates 

 as representing mere sections of the radials, which, jointly with 

 the arm-bearing part above, are equivalent to one of the undi- 

 vided radials of the other two rays. 



Generic Diagnosis Of very small size. Form of calyx sub- 

 globose, sometimes biturbinate, extending almost over the whole 

 A^entral surface. The summit pieces are represented only by a 

 small oral plate. 



Basals five, small, pentagonal, forming a shallow cup with 

 slightly acute angles. Radials very irregular, two of them 

 consisting of single pieces, the other three of two plates each, 

 connected by suture. The two single plates, which agree in 

 size but not in form with the compound ones, belong to the 

 anterior ray and left postero-lateral one ; they are heptagonal 

 and almost of the same form and size. The three compound 

 ones difl"er from one another ; two of the lower segments are pen- 

 tagonal, that of the right anterior ray hexagonal, its left lateral 

 face being angular. The upper segments are quadrangular, 

 except the one of the right postero-lateral ray, of which the 

 lower corner is slightly truncated. The articular faces form a 

 straight line, and occupy about one-third the width of the radials. 

 They enter deeply the upper surface of the plates, and form at 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



each side of them a rather conspicuous upright projection, which 

 is truncated at the upper face. These projections are laterally 

 connected in pairs, and eacli pair supports a large interradial 

 plate, which almost covers the whole ventral surface. The five 

 interradials join with one another; they are subtrigonal, their 

 angles truncated ; the upper angle so as to admit a small oral 

 plate, the other two to make space for the articular facet. The 

 sides of the plates along their suture line are beveled, thereby 

 producing along the suture line, in a radial direction, a deep 

 groove, which, evidently, was occupied by the arms in their 

 closed condition. Beneath these grooves there is an opening in 

 the test, at which the ambulacra enter the cal3'x. The openings 

 contain along their median line the ambulacral passage, which is 

 oval in form. At each side of it there is apparently another 

 opening, which Schultze described as " kleine grubenartige Ver- 

 tiefungen," whose functions we cannot understand unless they 

 are in connection with the respiratory apparatus. There is no 

 anal plate ; the anal opening is small, and penetrates the upper 

 part of the interradials close to the oral plate. 



The arms are imperfectly known, but they probably were long, 

 simple, and composed of long joints, like those of the Larvi- 

 formia generally. The articulation upon the radials was by 

 muscles, the axial canals being plainly visible. Column cylin- 

 drical. 



Geological Position^ etc.Haplocrinus seems to have had a 

 wide vertical range, three species being from the Devonian, the 

 fourth one, according to De Koninck, from the Carboniferous (?). 



The following species have been described : 



1862. Haplocrinus clio Hall, 15th Rep, N. York State Cab. Nat. Ilust., p. 14:'., PI. 1, 

 figs. 5-9. -Maroellus Shale. Onondago Co., N. Y. 



1868. H. granatum De Koninck, Bull. d. I'Acad. Roy. de Belg. (Ser. 2), Tome iii, 

 No. 4, PI. 5, figs. 6-10. (?) Mountain limcst. Eolland, Yorksh., England. 



1826. H. mespiliformis (Goldfuss), Eugeniacrinites mespiliformis, Petref. Germ., 

 i, p. 2\?>, PI. 64, fig. 6. Haplocrinus spaeroideus, 1834, Steininger, Bull. 

 Soc. Geol. de Prance, Tome viii, p. 2:i2. Haplocrinus mespiliformis F. 

 Roemer, 1844, Rhein. Uebergangsgeb., p. 16; also Leth. Geogn., 1855 

 (Ausg. .3), p. 26L Pictet, 1857, Traite de Pal6ont., iv, PI. c, fig. 2. Bronn, 

 1860, Klassen d. Thierreichs (Actinozoa), PI. 28, fig. 4 A-C Dujardin and 

 Ilupe, 1862, Hist. Nat. des Zoophytes Echinod., p. 105, PI. 5, fig. 9. 

 Schultze, 1866, Echin. Eifl. Kalk., p. 104, PL 12, figs. 10, 11. Devonian. 

 Eifel, Germany. 



1844. H. stellaris Roemer, Rhein. Uebergangsgeb., p. 6;'., PI. ?>, fig. 5 ; also Sand- 

 berger, Jahrbuch,.1845, p. 777. Roemer, 1855, Lethaea Geogn. (Ausg. 3), 

 p. 261. Devonian. Nassau, Germany. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. ST 



ALLAGECRINUS Ether. & Carp. 



1881. Ann. and ]\rag. Nat. Hist. (April), pp. 281-298. 



1884. De Loriol, Paleont. Francaise (Serie i), Tome xi, p. 46. 



Allagecrinus was made by Etheridge and Carpenter the type 

 of a distinct family, and this was accepted by De Loriol. In 

 our opinion it is either a Haploerinoid or no Palaeocrinoid at all. 

 If the five ventral plates, as E. and C. assert, are orals, which in 

 the younger specimens extended to the radials, closing in the 

 tentacular vestibule, but in their subsequent stages were "rela- 

 tively carried inwards, away from the radials, and separated 

 from them by perisome," we should regard Allagecrinus a 

 Neocrinoid. If, however, it is a Palaeocrinoid, we think the five 

 ventral plates are interradials, which in the young Crinoid were 

 closed, and gradually opened out so as to expose the summit 

 plates. In this case, Allagecrinus was in its earlier life morpho- 

 logically in a similar condition as Haplocrinus^ but may have 

 attained in the adult a somewhat higher degree of development. 



Messrs. Etheridge and Carpenter state on p. 284 of their paper 

 on Allagecrinus^ that the mouth in the larger specimens could 

 not have been " roofed over or closed by a dome or vault of any 

 kind," for " if such a structure had existed within the circle of 

 radial plates, it would assuredly have been preserved." To this 

 we reply, that the summit structure of Symbathocrinus which is 

 comparatively solid was discovered after hundreds of the most 

 perfect specimens had been examined, and until then it was 

 regarded as membranous ; the same was the case in Cyathocrinus. 

 Allagecrinus in its more advanced stages, may have attained the 

 conditions of Haplocrinus or Symbathocrinus, or even of Cyatho- 

 crinus^ and passed perhaps through all those phases successively; 

 but there is not the least evidence that the Scheitelplatten in any 

 Palfeocrinoid were carried inward by perisome as in the Neo- 

 crinoidea. 



The same writers remark on p. 286, that " in none of the 

 smaller specimens is there Siny trace of an anal opening, either 

 directly piercing an oral plate, or at the margin of the dome 

 between the orals and radials." And they state further, that 

 " the central end of one or more of the former may be marked 

 by tubercles, but we cannot suggest any explanation of these." 

 If E. and C. had regarded these tubercles as mere ornamentations, 

 they certainly would have stated so. We judge from their figs. 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



5 and Y 6, on PI. xvi, that one of the tubercles was larger than 

 the others. The larger one may have been pierced by the anal 

 opening, for it occupies relatively the same position as the anal 

 opening in Haplocrinus. 



We cannot agree with Etheridge and Carpenter that Poterio- 

 crinus isacobus Austin, which we referred (Rev. I, p. 113) to 

 Scaphiocrinus, is an Allagecrinus. The little cup, which Austin 

 figured on PI. 8, fig. 4, of his Monograph, is evidently a ring of 

 underbasals, with a few stem-joints attached to it, and not basals. 

 To judge from the figures, there is in our mind scarcel}'' a doubt 

 that, in some way or another, the caly:s. in the type-specimen 

 became detached, that the basals and radials were lost, and the 

 underbasals temporarily fastened to the arms for safe-keeping. 

 Similar detached cups are frequently found in the Burlington 

 limestone, and we doubt if there will ever be found a species of 

 Allagecrinus with branching arms. 



Generic Diagnosis. Crinoid minute. Calyx p^'riform or 

 cylindro-conical. The dorsal cup composed of two rings of five 

 plates each ; the ventral surface, so far as known, of five single 

 pieces. There are no anal plates, neither dorsally nor ventrall3^ 



Basals five ; suture-lines rarely visible. Radials five, elongate, 

 variable in form and size ; they are either axillaries and support two 

 simple arms, or truncate above and bear a single arm, but neither 

 one of them is branching ; when axillaries, they are considerably 

 wider. The articular facets for the attachment of the arms are 

 large and distinct, and nearly horizontal in position, so as to 

 give a projecting lip-like appearance to the upper and outer 

 edges of the radials. There is a transverse articular ridge 

 around the opening of the central canal, which is large. The 

 arms are strong, cylindrical, and probably without pinnules. 

 The first arm-joint is much shorter than the others, cuboidal, 

 with a nearly circular distal face, the succeeding ones elongate, 

 three and four times as wide as high. 



The construction of the ventral surface is only known in the 

 younger specimens, in which it consists of five interradial plates, 

 which form a closed pyramid, the relative size of which is 

 greater the smaller the specimen. The plates are trigonal, but 

 the lower angles slightl}^ truncate to form the arm-opening. In 

 the smaller specimens, the plates are so closely united, that there 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'HILADELPHIA. 89 



is no trace of sutures between them ; but the sutures gradually 

 become more marked, and turn in the larger ones into rather 

 distinct grooves. No central plate has been observed as in 

 Haplocrinus, and nothing is known of the ventral surface in any 

 of the larger specimens. Column short, of vermiform appear- 

 ance ; composed of small, low, rounded joints, with a circular 

 central canal. 



Geological Position, etc. Restricted, so far as known, to the 

 top of the Carboniferous limestone of Scotland and America. 



1881. Allagecrinus Austin! Ether, and Carp. Type of the genus. Ann. and Mag., 



vol. vii, p. 289, Pts. 15 and 16. Upper Carboniferous limestone of Scotland. 



1882. A. Carpenteri Wachsm., Bull. I, State Mus. Nat. Hist., p. 40; also Geol. Rep. 



Illinois, vol. vii, p. 341, PI. 29, fig. 14. Kaskaskia group. Monroe Co., 111. 



Family XIV.-SYMBATHOCRINID^, W. and Sp. 



We refer to this family the genera : Symbathocrinus^ Phimo- 

 crinus, Stylocriniis, Stortingocrinus, Pisocrinus, Triacrinus and 

 Lageniocrinus. Zittel made of these genera two families ; he 

 placed Symbathocrinus, Phimocrinus and Lageniocrinus, to which 

 he added Cupressocrinus, under the ^^ Cupressocrinidae,^^ and 

 Pisocrinus, Triacrinus, with Catillocrinus, under the "Piso- 

 crinidae.^'' These groups were adopted by De Loriol and S. A. 

 Miller. We willingl}'- admit that Cupressocrinus agrees with 

 Symbathocrinus and Phimocrinus very closely in the mode of 

 articulation and in the arm structure ; but they differ essentially 

 in other points. Cupressocrinus has a large dorsal cup, basals and 

 underbasals, and three or four large peripheral canals, which fol- 

 low the column. Nothing of this has been found either in Sym- 

 bathocrinus or Phimocrinus, which both have a very small dorsal 

 cup, and a small central opening along the column. After sepa- 

 rating Cupressocrinus, and making Symbathocrinus the type of 

 the group, it is extremely difficult to establish family distinctions 

 between Symbathocrinus and Zittel's Pisocrinidae. Not even the 

 irregularity in the construction of the calyx will hold good, as 

 also in Symbathocrinus the symmetry is disturbed by the 

 presence of an anal plate. Gatillocrinus, which also had been 

 identified with these groups, has a ventral sac, and has been 

 referred by us to the Fistulata. 



7 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



SYMBATHOCRINUS Phillips. 



(PI. 4, figs. 8 to 11, and PI. 5, figs. 12 to 14.) 



183G. Phillips, Geol. Yorksh., Pt. ii, p. 20G. 



1843. Austin (in part), Monogr, Rec. and Foss. Crin., p. 93. 



1850. D'Orbigny, Prodrome de Paleont., i, p. 156. 



1853. Owen and Shumard, Geol. Surv. la., Wise, and Minns., p. 597. 



1854. McCoy, Syn. Brit. Palaeoz. Toss. 



1858. Hall, Geol. Rep. Iowa, Vol. i, Pt. ii, p. 559. 

 1868, Meek and Worthen, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 324. 

 1873. Meek and Worthen, Geol. Rep. 111., Vol. v, pp. 324 and 437. 

 1875. Meek and Worthen, Geol. Rep. 111., Vol. vi, p. 514. 



1879. Zittel, Handb. d. Palaeontologie, i, p. 349. 



1880. Wetherby, Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist. (Extr., p. 7). 



Not SymbatJiocrinus Roemer 1855, Mi'iUer 1855, Schultze 1866 = 

 Stylocrinus Sandberger. 



The genus Symbathocrinus, as it is now recognized, contains 

 two distinct generic types. The one which occurs in the Car- 

 boniferous and upper Devonian has a large anal plate, and this 

 supports a long tube which extends to nearly the whole length 

 of the arms. The other form, which is restricted to the lower 

 Devonian, has no anal plate, nor does it show an anal opening. 

 The Carboniferous form will be recognized by us as Symbatho- 

 crinus, the other as Stylocrinus. 



When Phillips proposed the name Sijmbathocrinus he gave no 

 description, he only stated that the " pelvis " was " anchylosed." 

 The two Austins described Phillips' species, but they also took 

 the base to be undivided, and nothing was said by them about an 

 anal plate, although they indicated it in one of their figures 

 (Monograph, PI. 12, fig. 4 6). Their fig. 4 a is a totally different 

 thing, and represents either a Graphiocrinus or Scytalocrinus. 

 Owen and Shumard discovered the base of Symbathocrinus to be 

 tripartite, and Prof. Hall was the first to desci'ibe the anal plate. 

 The muscle-plate was taken by Zittel, and formerly by us, for a 

 so-called consolidating apparatus, like the similar structure in 

 Cupressocrinus, and homologous with the oral plates. It was 

 also the general belief that the central space was not closed, and 

 represented the mouth. 



Symbathocrinus granulatus and S. Tennessece Troost are cata- 

 logue names, S. tabulatus (Goldfass) a Scytalocrinus, and S. 

 tennesseensis E-oemer a Pisocrinus. 



Qeneric Diagnosis. Calyx small. Dorsal cup obconical or 




1886.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



basin-shaped. Basals three, forming a shallow cup, which is 

 slightly excavated for the reception of the column. They are 

 composed of two larger equal pieces which are pentangular, and 

 a smaller quadrangular one ; the latter placed to the left of the 

 anterior interradius as in Platycrinus. 



Radials nearly equal, subquadrangular ; the basi-radial suture 

 sligbtl}^ angular ; width much wider above than below. Their 

 upper side forms a straight, horizontal line, except at the right 

 postero-lateral radial, of which the left upper end is sloped off 

 for the reception of an anal piece. The anal plate rests com- 

 pletely upon this one radial, occupying about one-fourth of its 

 upper width. The radials are provided with large articular facets, 

 which, extending inwards and upwards, form jointly at the ventral 

 side of the calyx a sharply angular pyramid with re-entering 

 angles. The upper end of this pyramid is truncated, and con- 

 tains a good-sized opening in the centre, which in perfect speci- 

 mens is completely covered by the interradial and summit plates. 

 The lateral margins of the facets meet at their lower ends, except 

 at the azygous side, where they are separated by the anal plate ; 

 along their upper ends, however, they stand apart, and form 

 rather conspicuous clefts. Each facet is divided vertically by a 

 narrow sinus, ^ and the two halves of the plates or the limbs, as 

 they might be called, at their upper end form an ambulacral 

 opening. 



The interradials are unusually small, wider than high ; those 

 at the four regular sides resting against the upper face of two 

 limbs of adjoining radials. The number of interradials at the 

 azygous side cannot be ascertained in our specimens, as the parts 

 connecting the anal plate with the ventral surface of the calyx 

 were not preserved. The anal plate stands in line with the first 

 brachial, it has the same height but not its width, and is suc- 

 ceeded by a slender tube which follows the whole length of the 

 arms. Hall has figured a second anal plate, triangular in form ; 

 this, however, constitutes the lower portion of the first plate of 

 the tube, which always takes a sharp inward turn, leaving only a 

 small triangular space exposed externally between the arms. 

 The tube is composed of five rows of quadrangular, rather 



1 These sinuses, wtiicli look somewhat like suture lines, give to the 

 muscle plates the appearance of representing separate pieces, interradially 

 disposed, and this led us at first to regard them as oral plates. 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



delicate jDlates, which are bent longitudinally so as to form an 

 angle, and each plate extends to, and forms a part of, two of its 

 sides. The interradials alternate with radial dome plates, which 

 are even smaller, angular above. 



The summit is closed by the proximals and oral plate, all of 

 which are much larger than the interradials. The proximals con- 

 sist of four comparatively large, nodose plates, which enclose 

 toward the azygous side three scarcely convex, smaller ones. 

 The oral plate is the largest piece of the ventral side, it forms 

 an inverted cup, containing radiating grooves along the inner 

 floor, which lodged the ambulacra. 



Arms five, long, simple; closely folded together and forming a 

 narrow, cylindrical body. They are composed of a large number 

 of quadrangular joints, with parallel sutures, and are provided 

 with a deep ventral furrow, but apparently have no pinnules. 

 The first brachial differs somewhat in form from the others ; it is 

 always higher, extending to the level of the oral plate ; also wider, 

 but not quite as deep. Its proximal face is provided with a 

 muscular appendage, which corresponds with that of the radials; 

 its distal end, however, shows neither ridge nor fossae. The 

 higher brachials in all probability were united by suture, and the 

 arms moved as a body upon the radials. The articular faces of 

 the latter are provided near their outer margin with a transverse 

 ridge (PI. 5, figs. 12, 13), extending to the whole width of the 

 plate, with a transverse axial canal. The ventral furrow is deep, 

 has a longitudinal groove along the inner floor, and rib-like pro- 

 jections alternating with grooves along the inner walls. The 

 sides of the furrow are lined by two rows of short transverse 

 side-pieces about eight to each side of the arm joint alternately 

 arranged, which leave a zigzag median opening along the whole 

 length of the arms. There are also lateral pores, one to every 

 side-piece, and these connect with, and form the upper end of, 

 the lateral furrows at the inner walls of the arm grooves to which 

 we alluded. The lateral faces of the arm joints are provided 

 along their outer side with shallow slanting grooves (PI. 5, figs. 

 12, 13), and these agree in number with the pores. It seems to 

 us very probable that, b}' means of these grooves, the ventral 

 furrow was brought in contact with the surrounding element, as 

 the arms in this genus are so closely folded together, that with- 

 out them no communication was possible. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 93 



Column long, cylindrical ; with small central canal. 



Geological Position, etc. Symbathocrinus, commenced in the 

 Hamilton group, attained its greatest abundance in the two Bur- 

 lington formations, and disappeared at the termination of the 

 Keokuk period. 



1869. Symbathocrinus brevis Meek & Worthcn, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 



68; also Geol. Rep. Illinois, vol. v, p. 439, PL ii, fig. 6. Lower Burlington 



limestone, Burlington, Iowa. 

 1836. S. conicus Phillips, Geol. Yorkshire, p. 206, PI. 4, figs. 12, 13; Austin, Ann. and 



Mag. Nat. Hist., x, p. 108; also Monog. Rec. and Foss. Grin., p. 93, PI. 11, 



figs. 5 &, c (not 5 a, which is a Poteriocrinoid); d'Orbigny, 1850, Prodr. i, p. 



156; McCoy, 1854, Syn. Brit. Palaeoz. Foss., p. 118. Mountain limest., 



Ireland and England. 

 1852. S. dentatus Owen & Shuin., Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. (new sen), vol. ii, p. 



93, PI. II, fig. 7; also 1852, Geol. Rep. Iowa, Wise, and Minnesota, p. 597, 



PI. 5 R, figs. 7 b. Upper Burlington limest., Burlington, Iowa. 

 1880. S. granuliferus Wetherby, Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist., PI. 16, figs. 3, 3 a. 



Kinderhook gr., Kentucky. 

 1858. S. matutinus Hall, Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i, p. 483, PI. i, fig. 2. Hamilton gr., 



New Buffalo, Iowa. 



1860. S. Oweni Hall, 13th Rep. N. York St. Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 111. Kinderhook 



gr., Rockford, Indiana. 



1861. S. papillatus Hall, Descr. New Crin. (Prelim. Notice), p. 18. Upper Burling- 



ton limestone, Burlington (a mere variety of S. dentatus). 



1865. S. robustus Shumard, Trans. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., vol. ii (Palaeozoic Foss. 



America), p. 397. Meek and Worthen, 1885, Geol. Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 514, 

 PI. 29, fig. 4. Keokuk limestone. Button-Mould Knob, Ky., and Sulphur 

 Springs, near Nashville, Tenn. 



1858. S. Swallovi Hall, Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i, Pt. II, p. 672, PI. 17, figs. 8 and 9. 



(?) St. Louis limestone. Missouri. 

 1869. S, WachsmutM Meek and Worthen (not 1866== Catillocrinus Wacbsmuthi), 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 67 ; also Geol. Rep. Illinois, v, p. 437, PI. 2, 

 fig. .5. Lower Burlington limestone. Burlington, Iowa. 



1859. S. Wortheni Hall, Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i, Pt. ii, p. 560, PL 9, fig. 9. Upper 



Burlington limestone. Burlington, Iowa. 



PHIMOCRINUS Schultze. 



1866. Schultze, Monogr. Echin. Eifl. Kalk., p. 29. 

 1879. Zittel, Handb. d. Palaeoutologie, i, p. 350. 



1882. Oehlei-t, BuU. Soc. Geol. de France, Ser. 3, x, p. 353. 



Phimocrinus agrees almost completely with Symbathocrinus, 

 but it has five basals in place of three. It also has similar arti- 

 cular facets, which, in a like manner, form a stelliform pyramid, 

 of which, however, the summit plates have not been observed. 

 The anal opening is situated between two muscle-plates, and 




94 PROCEEDTNQS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



evidently was extended into a tube, as in Symbathocrinus. The 

 form of the arms is not known. Column pentagonal, with a 

 small pentalobate central canal. 



Geological Position, etc. Phimocrinus is restricted to the 

 lower part of the Devonian. 



1882. Phimocrinus Jouberti Oehlert, Bull, de la Soc. G^ol. de France, Ser. 3, tome 



X, p. .352, PI. 8, fig. 1. Devonian. Sabr6, France. 

 1866. Ph. laevis, Schultze (Type of the genus), Monogr. Echin. Eifl. Kalk., p. 29, 



PI. 3, fig. 6. Devonian. Eifel, Germany. 

 1866. Ph. quinquangularis Schultze, Monogr. Echin. Eifl. Kalk., p. 30, PI. 3, fig. 7. 



Devonian. Eifel, Germany. 



STYLOCRINUS Sandberger. 



(Re-defined by "W". and Sp.) 



1850. Versteinerungen Nassau's, p. 400. 



Syn. Platycrinus (partim) Goldfuss, 1838. Nova Acta Leop. XIX, 

 i, p. 345 ; also Quenstedt, 1852, Handb. d, Petrefactenk., Ed. 1, 

 p. 618. 

 Syn. Symbathocrinus (partim) Miiller, 1855, Verb, naturb. Verein 

 fiir Rbeinlande, xii, p. 19 ; also Neue Ecbin. Eifl. Kalk., p. 257 ; 

 Scbultze, 1866, Monogr. Eifl. Kalk ., p. 26 ; Zittel, 1879, Handb. 

 d. Palseont., i, p. 349. 



Stylocrinus has been generally regarded as identical with 

 Symbathocrinus, and Sandberger, when he proposed the name, 

 failed to point out the generic differences. He applied the name 

 to a species from Vilmar, which afterwards was found to be 

 specifically identical with " Symbathocrinus " tabulatus, from the 

 Eifel. The absence of an anal plate, and even of an anal opening in 

 the Eifel species, was overlooked or disregarded by all European 

 writers. Zittel described the ventral side of Symbathocrinus as 

 plated, and containing an anal tube reaching to the tips of the 

 arms ; he also spoke of oral plates, which were said to form 

 beneath the vault a concealed consolidating apparatus. This 

 description, incorrect as it is, was evidently made from the 

 Carboniferous form, as in the Eifel species nothing is known of 

 the calyx beyond the radials. In Symbathocrinus the anal 

 opening is located between two of the muscle-plates ; but in the 

 Eifel species, which we make the type of Stylocrinus, the mus- 

 cular appendages of all the radials are suturally united. This 

 suggests that the opening probably penetrated the interradials, as 

 in Haplocrinus, and it may have had, like that genus, only an 

 oral plate and no proximals. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 95 



In the construction of the dorsal cup, Stylocrinus agrees with 

 Symbathocrinus. The two genera, however, differ in the articular 

 extensions of their radials, which extend only inward, not 

 upward, and form a level with the outer edges of the radials. 

 The arms are composed of quadrangular joints, with parallel 

 sutures, and they possess a deep ventral furrow. The column is 

 circular, and consists of thick joints, those at the upper end 

 being comparatively strong, but they are reduced very soon to 

 less than one half of their greatest width. 



The only known species is : 



*1838. Stylocrinus tabulatus (Goldf.), Platycrinus tabulatus, Nova Acta. Leopold. 



xix, i, p. 345. Quenstedt, Handb. d. Petrefactenk. (Ed. 1), p. 618, PL 54, 



fig. 25. Symbathocrinus tabulatus, Miiller, 1855, Verb, naturh. Verein f. 



Rheinl. xii, p. 19, PI. i, figs. 4, 5 ; Schultze, 1866, Monogr. Eifl. Kalk., p. 



27, PI. 3, figs. 4, 5. Devonian. Eifel, Germany. 

 Var. alta Miiller, Verein f. Rheinl. xii, PI. 4, fig. 5; Schultze Monogr., PL 3, 



fig. 4. 

 Var. depressa Miiller, ibid., PI. 4, fig. 4; Schultze, ibid., PI. 3, fig. 5. 

 Si/n. Platycrinus laevigatus Goldf.; P. alutaceus, P. scrobiculatus, P. nodu- 



losus. These names were applied by Goldfuss to specimens in the Museum 



of Bonn to mere variations of Stylocrinus tabulatus, but have never been 



published (Schultze). 

 Syn. Stylocrinus scaber Sandberger, Versteinerungen Nassau's, p. 400, PI. 



35, fig. 12. 

 Syn. Platycrinus gerolsteiniensis Steininger, Geogn. Beschreib. d. Eifel, 



p. 37. 



STORTINGOCRINUS Schultze. 



1866. Monogr. Echin, Eifl. Kalk., p. 69. 



Syn. Platycrinus (partim), Goldfuss and Wirthgen and Zeiler. 



Stortingocrinus agrees in the lower portions of its calyx with 

 Platycrinus^ to which it was referred by Goldfuss and Miiller. 

 That it does not belong to the Camarata, and hence is no Platy- 

 crinoid, is shown by the mode of articulation, which is like that 

 of HaplociHnus, and by the form of the radials, which, in the 

 place of being notched, are extended upward, and support upon 

 their limbs a sing-le interradial as those of the Blastoids. 



Generic Diagnosis. Basals three, unequal; two of them twice 

 the size of the third one, which is rhomboidal. Radials large, 

 subquadrangular ; their articular facets deeply inserted, forming 

 a depression with a slightly concave upper face. Their lateral 

 margins of adjoining radials are connected by suture, they extend 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



upwards and inwards, forming partitions between the arm bases, 

 leaving but a small space for the reception of the arms. 



Column round, with a stellate central canal, its angles directed 

 radially. 



Geological Position, etc. Stortingocrinus is restricted, so far 

 as known, to the lower beds of the Devonian of Europe. 



*1838. Stortingocrinus decagonus (Goldfuss) Platycrinus decagonus, Nova Acta 

 Ac. Leopold, xix, i, p. 345. Schultze, Platycrinus (Stortingocrinus) deca- 

 gonus; Monogr. Echin. Eifl. Kalk., p. 70, PI. 10. Devonian. Eifel, 

 Germany. 



*1S55. St. fritillus, (Wirthgen and Zeiler), Type of the genus. Platycrinus fritillus, 

 Verb, naturh. Verein f. Rheinl., Jahrg. xii (n. sen), p. 80, PI. 10, figs, i and 

 5. Schultze, Platycrinus (Stortingocrinus) fritillus, Mon. Echin. Eifl. 

 Kalk., p. 69, PI. 10, figs. 8-8 f. Devonian. Eifel, Germany. 

 Syn. Platycrinus asper, P. pusillus, P. rugosus, P. scobiculatus and P. 

 scaber Goldfuss, and P. minutus Schurr. 



*1866. St. trifidus (Schultze), Platycr. (Stortingocr.) trifidus, Monogr. Echin. Eifl. 

 Kalk., p. 70, PI. 10, figs. 8a-g. Devonian. Eifel, Germany. 



PISOCRINTJS De Koninck. 



1858, De Koninck. Bull, de 1' Acad. Roy. de Belgique (Ser. 2), iv, p. 104. 



1873. Salter, Cat, Cambr. Museum, p. 128. 



1879. Handb. d. Palseontologie i, p. 348. 



18T8, Angelin, Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 20, 



1879. S. A. Miller, Joum. Cincin. Soc. Nat, Hist. (July). 



Syn, Symbathocrinus (in part), F, Roemer, Silur. Fauna, "West 



Tenn., p. 55, 

 Syn. (?) Triacrimts, Miinster, 1839 (in part), Beitrage zur Petre- 



factenkunde, p, 4. 

 Syn, Symhathocrinus (in part), Roemer, 1860, Silur,, Fauna West. 

 Tennessee, p, 55. 



Pisocrinus is closely allied to Triacrinus, but the latter is said 

 to have three basals; Pisocrm us has five. The arrangement of 

 the other calyx plates is identical, and also the arm structure. 

 Schultze, who observed in the Eifel species only three basals, 

 postulated from this that the Silurian species from Sweden, for 

 which De Koninck had established the genus Pisocrinus, also 

 consisted of but three plates, Angelin, who succeeded Schultze, 

 and who had at his command the extensive collections of the 

 Stockholm Museum, describes the genus with five basals, and all 

 his figures show five plates. We also examined from the same 

 horizon in America several hundred specimens of at least three 

 species from Western Tennessee, all of which have five basals and 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



not three ; but in one of those species the basals are so small that 

 they were almost completely covered by the column, and it appears 

 as if the sutures between the plates of the second ring, of which 

 only three touch the basals, were the sutures between the plates 

 of the first ring. A similar structure is found in Pisocrinus 

 pilula (Iconogr., PL 4, fig. 4 6), a species which in its general 

 aspect is closely allied to Triacrinus depressus MUller. We do 

 not pretend to say, however, that this species had five basals ; it 

 is very possible that two of these plates became anchylosed, and 

 that the genus made its reappearance in the Devonian with only 

 three basals. 



Generic Diagnosis. Calyx in its general aspect clove-shaped, 

 its form subconical, sometimes pyriform. 



Basals five, unequal; three of them larger and trapezoidal, the 

 two smaller ones trigonal, which combined form an irregularly 

 triangular cup. 



The radials are extremely irregular, only the two anterolateral 

 ones touching the basals. These two are more than twice as 

 large as the other three plates ; they are hexagonal, and have the 

 same form and size. The anterior radial is triangular, with con- 

 vex sides, and rests with its lower angle half way between the 

 two larger ones. At the posterior side, the basals do not support 

 a radial, but are succeeded by a pentangular azygous plate, which 

 shares with the two large radials an equal part. The plate has 

 the form of an axillary, is broadly truncate below, with short 

 lateral faces, and is sharply angular above. The two postero- 

 lateral radials meet above the azygous plate, resting upon its 

 sloping upper sides, and against the upper half of the two larger 

 radials. Their width is identical with that of the larger ones, 

 and in a ventral aspect the radials appear to be perfectly 

 sj^mmetrical. 



Pisocrinus has similar articular appendages as Symhathocrinus, 

 which cover a good part of the ventral surface. The articula- 

 tion, however, does not occup}' the whole width of the radials; 

 there is at each side of the plates an upright extension, which 

 together with that of adjoining radials produces interradially, 

 between the arms, a conspicuous projection, similar to that of 

 Haplocrinus^'but more prominent. The construction of the ven- 

 tral side is not known, the space beyond the articular faces is 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



open in all onr specimens, but probably was covered in a similar 

 manner as in Si/mbathocrinus. 



The arniJ^ are long, simple, rounded along the outer face, and 

 less closely fokled than in SinnbotJiocrinus. They are composed 

 of extremely long, single joints with parallel upper and lower 

 faces. The column is circular and has a stellate central canal. 



Geological Positioyi, etc. Pisoci-imis is restricted to the Upper 

 Silurian, and occurs in Europe and America. 



Pisoci'inus Dixoni Troost is a catalogue name. 



1S78. Pisoorinus flagellifer Angclin, loonogr. Crin. Suec, p. 21, PI. 4, figs. 1 a-e. 



Upper Silur., Gothland, Sweden. 

 1S7P. P. gemmiformis ?. A. Miller. Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist. (,July), PI. 9, 



lii;s. (i (!-<-. Niagara gr.. Kiply Co., Indiana. 

 1S7S, P. oUula Angelin, Iconogr. Crin. Suec., p. 21, PI. 4, figs. 4 a-rf. Upper Silu- 

 rian, llothland, Sweden. 

 ISoS. P. ornatus I>e Konim-k. Hull, de TAcad. Roy. de Bolg. (Ser. 2), Tome 4 (Extr. 



p. 27), PI. 2, figs. 12, 13. Upper Silurian, Dudley, England. 

 ISoS. P. pilula De Koninek (Type of the genus). Bull, de I'Aoad. Koy. de Belg. 



^Ser. 2), Tome 4 (Extr. p. 2ti), p. lOt^, figs. S-11 : Angelin, lS7v^, loonogr. 



Crin. Suec.. p. 21, PI. 4, figs. 4 <i, ft. Upper Silurian, Dudley, England, 



and l<othland, Sweden. 

 1S7S. P. pooillum Angelin, loonogr. Crin. Sueo., p. 21, PI. 4, figs. :i, ."^ <i. Upper 



Silurian, Gothland, Sweden. 

 *lSiUi. P. tenuesseensis (Koouier). Symbathoorinus tennesseensis. Silur. Fauna, 



West. reuu.,p. .'>'>, PI. 4, figs. t> o. />. Niagara gr. Dooatur Co., Teun. 



TRIACRINUS Miinster. 



ISr^O. 3Tunstor, Boitnige ?.. Potrefiu-tonk., p. 8. 

 1S50. D'Orbigny, Prodr. do Valeont., i, p. 104. 

 1866. Schnltze, Monogr. Eehin. Eifel Kalk., p. 106. 

 1879. Zittol, llaudb. d. Pahvont., i, p. 348. 



Syn. 2'richocnnus Miillor. ^Monatsbor. ISoO. p. 3o4., and Xouo Ecbin. 

 d. Eitl. Kalk., p. 04?. 



Triacrinus ditVer^s from Pisocrinus in having three basals in 

 place of five, in all other eharaoters the two forms are identical. 

 "We have some doubt whether the few species which have been 

 referred to TriacHnus have not really five basals instead of 

 three. In this case the genus would take the name Pisocrinus 

 and not 'Triacnnus, although the latter has priority. Miinster 

 described the base as tripartite, making this the name-giving 

 character, and Pe Koninok, who found five basals in his species, 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



was in our opinion perfectly justified in establishing for it a new 

 genus. 



1857. Triacrinus altus (Muller), Tricliocriinis altus, Neue Echin. Eifl. Kalk.. p. 249, 



PI. 2, figs. S-11. Schultze, 1SG6, Triacrinus altus, Echinod. Eifl. Kalk., p. 



109, PI. 12, fig. 9. Devonian. Eifel, Germany. 

 1857. T. depressus (Muller), Trichocrinus depressus, Xeue Echin. Eifl. Kalk., p. 249, 



PI. 2, tigs. 12-17. Schultze, 1866, Triacrinus depressus, Echin. Eifl. Kalk., 



p. 108, PI. 12, fig. 8. Devonian. Eifel. 

 1839. T. granulatus Miinster, Beitr. z. Petrefactenk., p. 4. Upper Silur. (?). 



Schiibekammer, Germany. 

 1839. T. granulatus Jliinster, type of the genus, Beitr. z. Petref., p. 3, PI. 1, figs. 



4 a, b, c. Devonian. Benitzlosau, near Hof, Germany. 



LAGENIOCRINUS De Kon. & Lehon. 



1853. De Kon. and Lehon., Recherch. snr les Crin. Carbon, de la Belg., 



p. 1S7. 

 1879. Zittel, Handb. d. Palseontologie, i.. p. 350. 



Zittel has placed Lageniocrinus along with Symbathocrinus and 

 Phimocrinus, and we think for good reasons. We also agree 

 with him that the five plates, which in the specimens cover the 

 ventral surface, represent the arms and not radials as was sup- 

 posed by De Koninck. These plates evidently could be opened, 

 and there were plates underneath covering the calyx. Lagenio- 

 crinus represents in our opinion an embryonic form, and may 

 possibly be the young stage of Symbathocrinus. Of this genus 

 we found a verv minute specimen, in which the arms consisted of 

 but three successive joints, forming jointly a pyramid : while 

 adult specimens sometimes have as many as a hundred. 



Generic Diagnosis. General form flagon-shaped ; that of the 

 dorsal cup funnel-shaped. Basals three, elongate, two of them 

 larsrer and pentangular, the smaller one rhomboidal, which 

 together form a tubular body which is slightly wider above. The 

 radials are quadrangular, wider above than below. Two of them 

 rest upon the truncate upper faces of the two larger basals, the 

 three others against their sloping sides and against the upper 

 s.AcS of the smaller basaL There is no anal plate. The arms 

 consist of single joints, which, folded together, form a pyramid. 

 The ventral surface of the calyx is not known. 



IS'AS. Lageaioeriftms seMisolas I^ Koa. asd Leltoa, Bediereli. car ks Ciim. CariMB. 

 4elkB^.,p.lS9, PL4fs.l-e. MooitaiB loMst. Tm^ 




100 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEIVIT OP [1886. 



(1) RHOPALOCRINUS W. & Sp., Rev. i, p. 57. 



This genus was referred by us provisionall}^ to the Ichthyo- 

 crinidge, where it cannot remain, as it has not the articulate 

 structure so characteristic of that group. We now place it with 

 the Inadunata, as the arms were evidently free from the first 

 radials ; but we are yet in doubt if it should go with the Sym- 

 bathocrinidae, Cupressocrinidae, Gasterocomidae, or be made a 

 distinct group. 



Family XV. CUPRESSOCRINID-E Roemer. 



The Cupressocriuidse in our classification consist only of the 

 genus C2ipressocrinus. Schultze, Zittel and De Loriol, however, 

 added Symbathocrinus and Phimocrinus, which unquestionably 

 differ from Gupressocrinus more than Pisocrinus and Triacrinus, 

 for which they proposed a separate group. 



GUPRESSOCRINUS Goldfuss. 

 (PI. 4, fig. 1.) 



1826. Goldfuss, Petref. Germaniae, i, p. 330. 



1835. Agassiz, Memoir Soc. des Sci. natur. d. Neuchatel, i, p. 198. 



1838. Goldfuss, Nova Acta. Ac. Leopold. XIX, i, p. 330. 



1839. Miinster, Beitrage z. Petref., p. 3. 



1845. F. Roemer, Leonh. and Bronn's Jahrbuch, p. 291. 



1850. D'Orbigny, Prodrome de Paleont., i, p. 103. 



1852. Quenstedt, Handb. d. Petref. (Ed. 1), p. 623. 



1855. Sandberger, Versteinerungen Nassau's, p. 401. 



1855. F. Roemer, Lethsea Geognostica (Ausg. 3j, p. 230. 



1857. Pictet, Traite de Paleont., vol. iv, p. 306. 



1862. Dujardin and Hupe, Hist, natur. des Zooph. Echin., p. 110. 



1866. Schultze, Monogr. Echin. Eifl. Kalk., p. 14. 



1879. Zittel, Handb. d. Palaeontologie, i, p. 348. 



1880. Quenstedt, Handb. d. Petref., -Ed. 3, p. 962. 



1882. De Loriol, Paleontologie Franc, tome xi, p. 47, not Ad. Roemer, 

 Harzegebirge, p. 8 ; nor McCoy, Syn. Brit. Palseoz. Foss., p. 117. 

 Syn. Halocrinites Steininger, 1831, Mem. Soc. Geol. de France, i, 



p. 349. 

 Syn. Cyprensocrinites Steininger, 1849, Verstein. Uebergangsgeb. 



d.Eifel, p. 20. 

 ^yn.CypeUocrinites^tQ\m\\ge.Y, 1853, Geogn. Beschr. d. Eifel, p. 36. 



Goldfuss, in 1826 (Petrefacta Germania), gave a good descrip- 

 tion of this genus, to which he made additions in 1838 (Beitrage 

 zur Petrefactenkunde, p. 334). At both times he expressed the 

 conviction that the ventral covering was probably membranous. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



The arms he described as bearing " siibelformige Teiitakeln " 

 (pinnules), and in the description of Cupressocrinus gracilis he 

 gave a grapliic account of the articular facets of the radials. 

 These, according to his statement, extend deeply inward, so as 

 to diminish largely the width of the visceral cavity, which at the 

 upper end is reduced to one half the depth of the facet. Behind 

 the " Nahrungscanal " (axial canal), he says, there extend out 

 two diverging muscular extensions, which connect by a cross- 

 piece, abut against their fellows of adjacent radials, and form 

 together a star-shaped figure, composed of five pairs of leaves. 

 The ventral surface, therefore, according to Goldfuss, consists of 

 five coalesced muscle-plates, and not, as was supposed by 

 Roemer, Schultze and Zittel, and heretofore by ourselves, of an 

 independent plate or appai'atus, peculiar to this genus. F. 

 Roemer described it as a cribriform calcareous plate, in form of a 

 five-leaved flower. Schultze speaks of it as five delicate plates, 

 which join radially, four of them equal, the fifth one different 

 and containing the anal opening. He calls it a consolidating 

 apparatus, constituting a part of the inner body, and not portions 

 of the outer test; pierced by various openings, through which 

 the blood-vessels, axial canals and genital organs passed into the 

 arms. A similar view was held by Zittel, who stated : " There is 

 in the interior of the calyx, at the base of the arras, a peculiar 

 annular, so-called consolidating apparatus, composed of five 

 large interradial (oral) plates, with a round (mouth) opening at 

 the centre." Also, De Loriol mentions a peculiar " Consolida- 

 tions-apparat, qui a ete rapproche des hydrospires." 



The views expressed by us, Rev. I, p. 12, to which De Loriol 

 alludes, differ from those of our co-laborers. We held that the 

 so-called " consolidating apparatus " was composed of five oral 

 plates, which we thought stood in connection with five pairs of 

 h3^drospires. To this interpretation we were partly led by a cer- 

 tain superficial resemblance, but principally by the fact that 

 Roemer, Schultze and Zittel, who had access to the splendid col- 

 lections fi'om the Eifel, all agreed that the plates in question were 

 interradial in position. If this had been true, nothing could 

 have been more natural but that these plates should be struc- 

 turally identical with the deltoids of the Blastoidea, and the 

 interradials of the Gyathocrinidae, which were then held by us to 

 be oral plates. 




102 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



A very different interpretation of the so-called consolidating 

 apparatus has been given to us by Dr. P. H. Carpenter, who 

 regards it as representing the united muscle-plates of the radials. 

 He wrote to us as follows : " I look upou the consolidating 

 apparatus as offering a surface for the attachment of muscles by 

 which the arms were moved on the calyx. The successive arm- 

 pieces I will not call them 'joints ' were suturally united and not 

 movable upon one another, so that the arms were moved en masse 

 upon the calyx, and this must have required very strong muscles 

 between the calyx and first brachials. All that is ordinarily 

 supposed to represent the articular face of the radials is shown 

 in Schultze's Taf. II, fig. 5 a, while that of the arm-base appears 

 on fig. 7 b. Now, it appears to me improbable that the heavy, 

 massive arms of Gupressocrinus were moved by muscles which 

 had no further surface of attachment at their proximal end, at 

 any rate than is shown in Fig. 5 a. Symbathocrinus has large 

 muscle-plates, but there is nothing of this kind in Gupressocrinus, 

 without the consolidating plates. The calyx of Phimocrinus Isevis 

 (Schultze, Taf. Ill, fig. 6 a), corresponds to that of Gupresso- 

 crinus, with the consolidating plates in situ. There is the same 

 arrangement round the anal opening, of which there is absolutely 

 no trace in Gupressocrinus, without the consolidating plates, and 

 yet it is clear from Schultze's description that he regards (rightly 

 as I believe) the top of the calyx to be formed of the ' Gelenk- 

 flachen der Radialia,' with the anus between two of them. I 

 cannot, therefore, help regarding the consolidating apparatus of 

 Gupressocrinus as consisting of the united muscles-plates of the 

 radials, from the lower portions of which they are apt to 

 separate." This seems to us a very reasonable solution of the 

 question, and we fully agree with Carpenter. We have since 

 found that the plates are not interradially disposed, nor do they 

 form separate pieces ; the sutures which we thought we observed 

 are evidently radial sinuses, similar to those which we described 

 in Symbathocrinus. 



The arm structure of Gupressocrinus was also poirvted out 

 more accurately by Goldfuss than b}^ most of the succeeding 

 writers. The outer and inner " Querbalken " of Schultze (Mon., 

 PL l,figs. 1 /i, a, 13), are obviously the basal portions of incurved 

 pinnules, and as such they were described and figured by Zittel. 

 These pinnules, however, in the opinion of Carpenter, are not 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 103 



homologous with those of other Crinoids, there being six or 

 more of them to each arm plate, given off from each side, in 

 place of one alternately arranged, a structure similar to that of 

 the so-called pinnules of the Blastoids. Also their ambulacra, 

 aside from not being recumbent and forming no part of the calyx, 

 resemble closely those of the latter group. By removing the 

 lancet piece and side pieces in Pentremites, and exposing the 

 sinus, it will be found that the inner sides of the limbs are con- 

 structed almost exactly as the inner walls of the arm-grooves in 

 Cupressocrinus, as seen by a comparison with Schultze's figure in 

 his Monograph, PL ii, figs. 7 and 11. There are in both struc- 

 tures deep, rounded transverse grooves, alternating with ridges 

 which are truncate above, and each one of them is provided 

 lengthways with a small furrow at the top. These furrows do 

 not extend to the full length of the ridge, but are provided at 

 their outer end with an articular facet for the attachment of a 

 pinnule. The pinnules at their base do not touch laterally, but 

 leave a small open space in the direction of the lateral grooves. 

 These grooves form the outer half of a pore, similar to the 

 hydrospire pores of the Blastoids, and like the latter probably 

 are communicating in a similar manner with hydrospires, lodged, 

 however, within the arm grooves and not within the calyx. 

 Schultze's figures 1 h and 1 i, in our opinion, are incorrect. 

 Cupressocrinus certainly had no such " Tentakel-Furche " as 

 here represented, and we doubt if the genus possessed such 

 minute irregular covering plates, either along the perisome or 

 within the arms. 



Generic Diagnosis. Dorsal side of the calyx basin-, cup- or 

 bell-shaped, composed of rather large, heavy plates; when the 

 arms ai-e attached and closed, the form is ovoid or pyramidal. 



The basals consist of five equal, pentagonal pieces, which 

 enclose an equilateral, undivided disk, formed by a coalescence 

 of the underbasals, or, according to others, by the upper stem 

 joint which became enlarged and as such took the place of the 

 underbasals in other genera. 



Radials five, of similar form, wider than high, pentangular ; 

 the upper margins truncate, and forming a horizontal line. They 

 are succeeded by five very short pieces, of the same width, which 

 Schultze designated as " articularia " and as parts of the calyx. 

 The arms are wide, simple, closely folded together, and composed 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



of a single row of from 2 to 20 heavy, transverse pieces, of which 

 the upper and lower sides are parallel. The arm plates grow 

 narrower and shorter at their upper ends, they are suturally con- 

 nected, and sometimes so closely anchylosed that no suture lines 

 can be distinguished along the lateral margins of the arms. 



The radials are connected with large muscle-plates (PL 4, fig. 

 1), which are laterally anchylosed, and together form one con- 

 tinuous plate. This covers the greater part of the ventral 

 surface, leaving in the centre but a comparatively small, irregu- 

 larly pentagonal open space, which, as we suppose from analogy 

 with allied forms, was covered in the animal by interradial and 

 summit plates. The median portions of each radial is pierced by 

 two successive, rather large openings, of which the outer ones 

 penetrate the upper margin of the plate, and serve as passages 

 for the axial cords ; the inner ones, which pass through the 

 muscle-plate, probably are ambulacral openings. The muscle 

 plate in its outer form is stellate, having five pairs of leaf-like 

 extensions, two to each radial. They contain upon their outer 

 faces indistinct striae, which from both sides concentrate toward 

 the axial opening. The leaves become more delicate toward 

 the periphery, especially interradially, where they are frequently 

 broken, and the spaces, thus formed, appear in the specimens as 

 if constituting natural openings. 



The articulation of the arms with the calyx was facilitated 

 b}^ the axillaria, which, like the radials, have an axial canal, 

 and, according to Schultze, similar muscular processes. The 

 articular face of the arms is truncate, sloping toward the inner 

 side, and corrugated for the reception of ligament. The arm 

 furrow is deep and wide, and contains along the inner floor an 

 unusually large axial canal, which, to the extent of the proximal 

 arm piece, is partitioned off from the ambulacral groove. The 

 exact construction of the ambulacra is not known, but we judge 

 they were plated in a similar manner as those of Symhathoc7Hnus, 

 and not membranous as described by Schultze. They probably 

 also were provided with lateral pores, and these were alternately 

 arranged with incurved, articulated pinnules, resembling in form 

 those of the recent genus Holopus, but arranged like those of the 

 Blastoids, there being four or more to each arm joint. 



Gupressocrinus has been described to possess no anal plate, 

 only an anal opening, located between two of the muscle plates. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



It has been overlooked, however, that in the two radials adjoining 

 the anal opening the passages of the axial cords are placed con- 

 siderably to one side, leaving sufficient space for an anal plate 

 such as we find in Symhathocrinus^ and whose presence we postu- 

 lated in Phimocrinus. That such a plate really existed, is more 

 probable since we find in G. gracilis the margin which forms the 

 anal opening at one side considerably raised, and there are 

 irregular upperedgesas if these had formed the baseof an anal tube. 



The column is circular, triangular or quadrangular, composed 

 of short joints. It contains four large peripheral canals, rarely 

 three or five, and a central one, which is either confluent with the 

 others or isolated. It is frequently provided with cirrhi, which 

 have two canals, vertically arranged, and these also are frequently 

 confluent. 



Geological Position, etc. Gupressocrinus is only known from 

 the lower portions of the Devonian of Europe. 



N. B. Gupressocrinus duhius and G. teres A. Roemer, and G. 

 jientaporus Eichwald, were described from pieces of column ; G. 

 calyx McCoy = Hydreionocrinus calyx (Rev. ii, p. 131); G. im- 

 pressus McCoy probably is Eupachycrinus. 



]8;i8. Gupressocrinus abbreviatus Goldf., Nova Acta Ac. Leopold, xix, Pt. i, p. 383, 

 PI. 30, fig. 4. D'Orbigny, Prodr. i,p. 102. Roemer, 1855, Leth. Geogn. (Ed. 

 3), i, p. 232. Schultze, 1866, Echin. Eifl. Kalk., p. 19, PI. ii, fig. 1, and PL 

 iii, fig. 3. Dujardin and Hupe, 1862, Hist. nat. Zooph. Echin., p. 112. 

 Devonian. Eifel, Germany. 



Schultze recognized the following varieties : C. alta, C. granulosa, C. hybida 

 and C. minor. 



Syn. Halocrinites Schlotheimii Steininger, Mem. Soc. geol. de France i, p. 349, 

 PI. 21, fig. 1. 



Syii. Gupressocrinus Schlotheimii Steininger, Geogn. Resch.reib. d. Eifel, p. 

 36, and Versteiu. der Eifel, 1849, p. 21. 



Syti. C. pyrimidalis Stein., Bull. Soc. geol de France (Ser. i), ix, p. 295, PI. 4. 



Syu. G. nodosus Sandberger, Versteiner. Nassau's, p. 401, PI. 35, fig. 5. 



Syn. C. Urogalli Roemer, Palaeontgr. iii, p. 9, PI. 2, fig. 7. 

 1826. C. crassus (ioldfuss (Type of the genus), Petref. Germanite i, p. 212, PI. 64, fig. 

 4 ; also 1838, Nova Acta Ac. Leopold, xix, Pt. i, p. 331, PI. 30, fig. 1, Agassiz, 

 1835, Soc. de Neuchat. i, p. 198. D'Orbigny, 1850, Prodr. i, p. 102. Bronn., 

 Lethaea Geogn. 1 and 2. F. Roemer, Leth. Geogn. i, 1855 (Ausg. 3), p. 232, PL 

 4, figs 9 a, b, c. Bronn, 1860,Classen dee Thierreichsii,Pl. 28, fig. 1. Dujardin 

 and Hupe, 1862, Hist. nat. Zooph. Echin., p. 112, PI. 5, fig. 12. Schultze^ 

 ] 866. Men. Echin. Eifl. Kalk., p. 23, PI. 3, fig. 1. Devonian. Eifel, Germany. 



Si/ii. Cypressocrinus crassus Steininger, Geogn. Beschreib. d. Eifel, p. 36 and 

 Versteiner. d. Eifel, p. 20. 



Si/ii. Gupressocrinus ^tetragonus GoIdfu.ss, Nova Acta Ac. Leopold. .\ix, Pt, i, 

 p. 332, PI. 30, fig. 3. 



8 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



1838. C. elongatus Goldfuss, Nova Acta Ac. Leopold, xix, Pt. 1, p. ^?il, PI. 30, fig. 2. 

 Miinster, 1839, Beitr. d. Petrefactenk., p. 3, PI. i, figs. 1 a, b. D'Orbigny, 

 1850, Prodr. i, p. 102. Schultze, 1866, Mon. Echin. Eifl. Kalk., p. 23, PI. r^, 

 fig. 1. Dujardin and IIup6, Hist, natur. Zooph. Echin., p. 112. Devonian. 

 Eifel, Germany. 

 Syn. C. gerolsteinensis Stein, 1849, Verst. d. Eifel, 1849, p. 20. 

 St/n. C. prismatious Stein, 1849, ibid., p. 20. 

 Syn. C. elongatus Stein, Geogn. Beschreib. d. Eifel, p. .">6. 

 1826. C. gracilis Goldfuss, Petref. Gernaaniae, i, p. 213, PI. 64, fig. 5 : also Nova 

 Acta Ac. Leopold, xix. Pt. I, p. 334, PI. 30, figs. 5 or, ft, c (not b d). Steininger, 

 1849, Versteiner. d. Eifel, p. 20. D'Orbigny, 1850, Prodr. i, p. 1 02. Dujardin, 

 and Hupe, 1862, Hist. nat. Zooph. Echin., p. 113. Schultze, 1866, Mon. 

 Echin. Eifl. Kalk., p. 23, PI. 3, fig. 2. Devonian. Eifel. Germany. 

 1866. C. hieroglypMcus Schultze, Mon. Echin. Eifl. Kalk;, p. 25, PI. 1, fig. 3. 



Devonian. Eifel, Germany. 

 1866. C. inflatus Schultze, Mon. Echin. Eifl. Kalk., p. 24, PL 1, fig. 2. Devonian. 



Eifel, Germany. 

 1866. C. scaber Schultze, Mon. Echin. Eifl. Kalk., p. 25, PI. 1, fig. 4. Devonian. 

 Eifel, Germany. 



Family XVI. GASTEROCOMIDJE. 



The Gasterocomidse embrace the following genera : Gastero- 

 coma, Nanocrinus and Myrtillocrinus. They were united by 

 Pictet and by Dujardin and Hup^, with the Haplocrinidse ; Roemer, 

 Schultze, Zittel and De Loriol, however, treated them as a sepa- 

 rate family. 



GASTEROCOMA Goldfuss. 



1838. Goldfuss, Nova Acta Ac. Leopold, xix, 1, p. 350. 



1853. Steininger, Geogn. Beschreib. d. Eifel, p. 38. 



1857. Miiller, Neue Echin. Eifl. Kalk., p. 257. 



1857. Pictet, Traite de Paleont., iv, p. 314. 



1862. Dujardin and Hupe, Hist, natur. des Zooph. Ecliin., p. 109. 



1866. Schultze, Mon. Echin. Eifl. Kalk., p. 95. 



1879. Zittel, Handb. d. Palseont., i, p. 863. 



Syn. Ceramocrimcs Miiller, 1855, Verb, naturh. Virein f. Rheinlande, 

 xii (n. ser.), p. 83. 



Syn. Epactocrinus Muller, 1855, ibid., p. 84. 



Gasterocoma was described by Goldfuss to be composed of five 

 basals and five radials, the latter as enclosing laterally an anal 

 plate, and the anal opening as being located next to the posterior 

 basal. This definition, although substantially correct, was after- 

 wards modified by Schultze. He found that among species, and 

 even among individuals of the same species, the construction of 

 the azygous side undergoes most remarkable variations ; such as 

 in other groups would be sufficient for generic separation. The 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



anal opening in this genus, as a rule, is located between the 

 radials. It either lies directly above the posterior basal, and is 

 followed by a quadrangular or triangular anal plate, or the open- 

 ing is situated above the anal plate. In the former case the two 

 posterior radials may close above the opening, or be separated 

 from one another by additional plates ; the opening may even 

 penetrate exceptionally the posterior basal. Miiller's genus 

 Ceramocrinics, according to Schultze, was founded upon a speci- 

 men in which the anal plate was placed above the opening, con- 

 trary to the typical form of Goldfuss, in which it was below. The 

 name Epactocrinus was proposed for a specimen with very irreg- 

 ular basals, portions of which evidently had been destroyed or 

 fractured, and were restored by the animal, and this ma}^ have 

 produced the irregular form. The construction of the ventral 

 side cannot be satisfactorily ascertained from Schultze's figures. 

 His figs. 1/, and 1 1, on PI. xii, which are said to represent the 

 ventral surface of Gasterocoma antiqua, are so different from one 

 another, that we believe there is a mistake in the figures. These 

 figures diflfer again essentially from fig. 5 6, which is said to 

 represent the same parts in Gasterocoma gibbosa. 



Generic Diagnosis. The lower disk has the form of a 

 pentagon, and extends somewhat beyond the column. It is 

 surrounded by five basals, four of them equal, pentagonal; the 

 fifth larger, hexagonal, truncate above. 



Radials five, pentangular ; three of them are equal, the two 

 next to the az3'gous side irregular. The two latter enclose later- 

 ally not only the anal plate, but also the anal opening, which is 

 surrounded by a single ring of small plates, and either rests upon 

 the truncated upper face of the larger basal, or is separated from 

 the latter by an anal plate. In either case the anus, as a general 

 rule, is succeeded by one or more anal pieces, which, however, in 

 some specimens do not extend to the upper end of the radials, 

 and in tliis ease the radials meet above the anal plates. The 

 radials have a lateral articular facet of the horseshoe form, which 

 extends deeply into the plate. It is notched above for the arm 

 furrow, and pierced by a large axial canal, which is removed far 

 off from the outer edge of the plate. The arms evidently were 

 heavy, and, to judge from the facets, were probably pendent. 



The mouth of Gasterocoma, according to the position of the 

 central piece, was excentric. This central or, as we call it, oral 




108 PROCEEDINQS OP THE ACADEMY OF [188fi. 



plate al)iits against the two posterior radials; it is large, 

 heavy, somewhat elongate, and surrounded anteriorly and later- 

 ally by what may prove to be four proximals (?). The' inter- 

 radial plates appear to be small, but may be pai'tly hidden from 

 view by the large covering plates. 



The form of the column is not known, but it was, like in 

 Cupressocrinus, perforated with a central canal and four per- 

 ipheral ones, which were confluent at the centre. 



Geological Position, etc. Confined to the Devtmian of the 

 Eifel. 



The following species have been described : 



18;i8. Gasterocoma antiqua Qoldf. (Type of the genus), Nova Acta Ac. Leopold. XIX, 



i, p. 96. Pictet, 1867, Traite de Pallont., iv, PI. C, fig. 7. Schultze, 1866, 



Echin. Eifl. Kalk., p. 96, PI. 12, fig. 1. Devonian. Eifel, Germany. 



Si/n. Epactocrinus Irregularis Mliller (Wirtgen and Zeiler), 1855, Verb, 

 naturh. Verein. f, Eheinl., xii, p. 85, PI. 12, figs. 5-8. 

 1866. G. gibbosa Schultze, Echin. Eifl. Kalk., p. 98, PI. 12, fig. 5. Devonian. 



Eifel, Germany. 

 1866. G. MuUeri Schultze, Echin. Eifl. Kalk., p. 99, PI. 12, fig. 2. Devonian. 



Eifel, Germany. 



Si/ii. Ceramocrinus eifliensis Miiller (Wirtgen and Zeiler), Verb, naturh. 

 Verein f. Rheinlande, xii, p. 83, PL 12, fig. 2. 

 1866. G. reticularis Schultze, Echinod. Eifl. Kalk., p. 99, PL 12, fig. :L Devonian. 



Eifel, Germany. 

 1866. G. Stellaris Schultze, Echin. Eifl. Kalk., p. 10(1, PI. 12, lig. 1. Devonian. 



Eifel, Germany. 



NANOCRINUS Miiller. 



1856. Miiller, Moiiatsber. d. Berl. Acad., p. 355. 



1857. Miiller, Neue Echinod. Eifl. Kalk., p. 249. 

 1866. Schultze, Monog. Echin. Eifl. Kalk., p. 102. 

 1879. Zittel, Handb. d. Palaeontologie, i, 364. 



Nanocrinus is very closel}' allied to Gasterocoma, and had not 

 Schultze found six specimens which all have the same irregular 

 structure, we should feel inclined to regard it an abnormal form 

 of that genus. According to Schultze, the genus has five basals, 

 but only four radials ; the place of the fifth one is said to be 

 occupied by an interradial. The latter is strictly radial in [)Osi- 

 tion, and as such should be designated as a non-arm-bearing 

 radial. 



Generic Diagnosis. Basal cup as in Gasterocoma, but the 

 plates less regular; four of them pentagonal, the posterior one 

 considerably higher, hexagonal, truncate above. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 109 



Radials five, large, irregular in size, four of them arm-bearing, 

 the fifth one not. The articular facet is lateral, horseshoe-shaped, 

 and occupies almost the whole outer face of the radials. Three 

 of the plates have a single facet, but the fourth, which is an 

 axillary, has two, somewhat smaller than those of the others. 

 The non-arm-bearing radial is smaller by more than one-half than 

 any of the rest; it is hexagonal or trapezoidal, and sometimes 

 altogether absent. The anal plate is placed between the lateral 

 faces of two radials, and rests upon the truncate upper face 

 of the larger basal. It is subquadrangular, somewhat excavated 

 for the anal opening, which generally occupies the upper portion 

 of the anal plate, occasionally, however, as in Gaster'ocoma, tire 

 lower side of it. The form of the arms is unknown. 



The interradials appear to be small, but probably are partly 

 hidden from view by the unusually large covering pieces, which 

 occupy the greater part of the ventral surface, and rest against 

 the oral plate, which is extremely large, there being no proximals. 

 The column, like that of Gasterocoma, is provided with a central 

 canal and four peripheral ones. 



The only known species is : 



1856. Nanocrinus paradoxus Muller, Monatsher. d. Berl. Acad., p. 355; also Neue 



Echin. d. Eifl. Kalk.. 1857, p. 249, PI. 2, figs. 18-21. Schultze, 1866, Echin. 

 Eifl. Kalk.. ).. 102, PI. 12, fig. 7. Devonian, Eifel, Germany. 



MYRTILLOCRINUS Sandberger. 



1855. Sandberger, Versteiner. Nassau's, p. 388. 



1857. Pictet, Traite de Paleont., iv, p. 311. 



1862, Dujardin and Hupe, Hist, natur. des Zooph. Ecliinod., p. 108. 

 1862. Hall, 15th Rep. N. York St. Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 142. 

 186G. Schultze, Moii, Echin. Eifi. Kalk., p. 96. 



We have not seen the original description of this genus, but 

 we infer from the notes of Pictet, Schultze and Hall, that Sand- 

 berger described it to possess a quinque-partite, quadri-canalicu- 

 late base. In his figure it seems the central part was represented 

 as undivided, and, curiously enough, the same is the case with 

 Hairs figure of the American species, although he mentions in 

 the description " five basals and five subradials." We cannot 

 understand how a base like this could have been divided into five 

 parts not four aud, therefore, prefer, in default of further evi- 

 dence, to regard it as undivided, although we are well aware that, 

 if any such division did exist, it would prove most satisfac- 




110 lft,0CEEUING8 OF THE ACADEMV Of [1886. 



torily that also the lower plate in the allied genera is under- 

 basal. Myrtillocrinus, in our opinion, is closely allied to Gas- 

 terocoma, if not identical with it, but it is possible that the anal 

 opening which has not been observed was subcentral, in place of 

 lateral. It also appears from Hall's figure, as if it had two arms 

 from each ray , although there is but one axial canal, which occupies 

 the central space of the facet. The facet in Hall's species is oval 

 and strictly lateral, thus indicating that the arms were pendent. 

 Geological Position, etc. Only two species are known, the 

 one from Europe, the other from America, both coming from 

 lower Devonian beds. 



1S62. Myrtillocrinus americanus Hall, 1 Jth Rep. N. York St. Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 

 142, PI. 1, figs. 2-4. Upper Helderberg group. Livingston Co., N. Y. 



1855. M. elongatus Sandberger (type of the genus), Verstein. Nassau's, p. .'588, PI. 

 35, fig. 6. Pictet, Traits de Paleout., iv, p. 311, PI. c. fig. 4. Dujardin and 

 Hupe, 1862, Hist, natur. d. Zooph. Echinod., p. 108. Miiller, 1857, Neue 

 Echin. Eifl. Kalk., p. 257. Devonian. Nassau, Germany. 



b. Branch, FISTULATA, W. and Sp. 



The Fistulata embrace the Cyathocrinidse as they were defined 

 by us heretofore, but which we now subdivide into Hybocrinida?, 

 Heterocrinidse, Anomalocrinidae, Cj^athocrinidse and Poterio- 

 crinidiB. To these we add the Belemnocrinid.ne, Astylocrinidae 

 and Encrinidse. 



Zittel defined his Hybocrinidse as follows : Calyx irregular ; 

 basis monocj^clic ; basals 5 ; radials 5 ; arms slender, single- 

 jointed ; pinnules wanting ; and he placed in the family : Hybo- 

 crinus and Anomalocrinus. His definition is deficient and not 

 quite correct. It would admit Pisocrinus and Rhopalocrinus, 

 which we recognize as members of very different groups ; and it 

 actually excludes Anomalocrinus, which has seven plates in the 

 radial series and not five, and strong pinnules, which are wanting 

 in Hybocrinus. 



Hybocrinus represents a very peculiar form. No other palaeo- 

 zoic Crinoid deserves in so high a degree the designation embry- 

 onic type as this genus, Hybocystites and the allied genera 

 Hoplocrinus and Baerocrinus, which Zittel took to be synonymous 

 with Hybocrinus. These four genera, which are easily recog- 

 nized by their monocyclic base, large body, imperfectly developed 

 radial plates, small ventral sac, the embryonic state of their arms. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



and the absence of pinnules, will be recognized by us as Hybo- 

 crinidse. 



Among the Heterocrinidae Zittel placed Heterocrinus^Oraphio- 

 crinus, Erisocrinus, Philocrinus and Stemmatocrinus. 



The family was defined as follows : Calyx regular ; base mono- 

 cyclic or dicyolic (five underbasals and five basals, or the latter 

 only); five radials ; arms long, simple, rarely bifurcating. The 

 qualification " calyx regular " cannot be applied to Heterocrinus, 

 which is one of the most asymmetrical forms of the Palaeo- 

 crinoidea, and this want of symmetry extends not only to the 

 interradial series but also to the radial plates, and forms its best 

 generic distinction. 



Neither does that term apply to Graphiocrinus, which is 

 bilateral, nor Philocrinus, which we think is decidedly irregular. 

 Only Stemmatocrinus and Erisocrinus have a pentamerous calyx, 

 but these agree in other respects with the Poteriocrinidae. 

 Heterocrinus, in its general asymmetry, in arms and pinnules, 

 and in its azygous side, closely resembles Anomalocrinus, which 

 for other reasons we refer to a distinct family. We add to the 

 Heterocrinidse the two genera Stenocrinus and Ohiocrinus, ^vhich 

 are founded upon species heretofore ranged under Heterocrinus, 

 and unlike Zittel, place Graphiocrinus, Philocrinus, Stemmato- 

 crinus and Erisocrinus under the Poteriocrinidae. 



Anomalocrinus, which we make the type of a distinct famil}^, 

 stands closer to the Heterocrinidae than to the Hybocrinidae, but 

 differs from either of them very essentially in the relative size of 

 the calyx, which is comparatively large, and low-cup or saucer- 

 shaped in place of subcylindrical or narrowly turbinate. It 

 further differs from all known Crinoids, recent or fossil, in the 

 arrangement of its pinnules, which are not given off alternately 

 from opposite sides, but from every successive joint on one side 

 at a time from one bifurcation to the next, where they change on 

 both rami to the opposite side. In the arrangement of the anal 

 plates, and in having no underbasals, the Anomalocrinidae agree 

 with the Heterocrinidae. 



The Belemuocrinidae, which only contain Belemnocrinus and 

 the imperfectly known genus Holocrinus, differ from the preced- 

 ing families in having no underbasals ; they have, however, large 

 basals, cylindrically arranged, but even these take little or no 

 part in forming the visceral cavity. In this regard Belemno- 




112 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



crinus resembles Rhizocrinus^ but it differs from that in having 

 a strong porous ventral sac. 



Zittel's C3^athocrinidjie include Ci/athocrinus, Nipterocrinus^ 

 Barycrinus, Euspirocrinus, Ophiocrinus, Botryocrinus^ Palseo- 

 crinus^ Garabocrinus, Sphserocrinus and Pachyocrinus (Billings, 

 not Eichwald). with the following famil}^ diagnosis : Calyx 

 globose; basis dicyclic, composed of five underbasals and five 

 basals ; anals 1-3; arms strongly developed, single-jointed, long, 

 branching, without pinnules ; ventral side covered by " oral 

 plates." From his list must be excluded Nipterocrinus, which 

 has interradials and only three underbasals, and Pachyocrinus, 

 which is too imperfectly known to determine its position. There 

 are besides Sicyocrinus, Ophiocrinus, Botryocrinus and Bary- 

 crinus, in which the arms, throughout their whole length, give 

 off armlets at intervals, which evidentlj^ take the place of pin- 

 nules if they are not true pinnules themselves. We direct atten- 

 tion to this point, as both Zittel and De Loriol make the absence 

 of pinnules in the Cyathocrinidae the sole distinction between 

 this family and the Poteriocrinidse. 



The presence or absence of pinnules has been considered by 

 us heretofore as a doubtful character for distinguishing families. 

 The pinnules are extensions of the arms, and in their organiza- 

 tion, both morphologicallj^ and physiologically, almost identical 

 with the arms. They are short branchlets given off along the 

 sides of the arms, but ordinarily'- not extending to their tips. 

 The pinnules differ from arms only by their containing the fertile 

 portions of the genital glands, while the arms lodge the genital 

 cord. The branches of the arms may be said to be modified 

 pinnules, which differ from true pinnules in their greater length 

 and thickness. They are usually called arms when attaining the 

 form and length of the primary arms, but armlets when shorter, 

 less robust, and given off at regular intervals. Frequently the 

 branches are pinnule-bearing again, and this is the case in the 

 Poteriocrinidae, in which all arms, whether branching or simple, 

 main arms or side arms, are fringed with true pinnules. The 

 presence or absence of pinnules would prove to be a much better 

 character for distinguishing the two groups, were it not that 

 Barycrinus and allied genera represent a most perplexing transi- 

 tion form in having short side branchlets, given off at regular 

 intervals, and these branching off once or twice again in a similar 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



manner. In these genera it is exceedingly difficult to determine 

 whether the branches are armlets or pinnules, a question which 

 cannot be decided definitely until we know where the genital 

 glands are located. It is probable that in the genus Cyathocrinus, 

 at least in its Carboniferous form, all branches were artos. We 

 found in G. multihrachiatus^ along the three or four proximal 

 arm joints, outside the adambulacral or side-pieces, small plates 

 in rows of from four to six pieces (PI. 4, fig. 7 a, 6), succeeding 

 each other longitudinally, which perhaps took the place of the 

 genital pinnules. No such plates, however, were represented in 

 Baryc?'inits^ in which the ventral grooves are comparatively 

 narrow. Cyathocrinus longimanus has no regular pinnules, but 

 certain sabre-shaped appendages, composed of five segments, 

 which from each side infold over the ventral furrow, covering it 

 completely. These appendages which we (Rev., i, p. 25) erro- 

 neously took to be rudimentary pinnules, ^ perhaps correspond 

 with the so-called " pinnules " of the Cupressocrinidte and Blas- 

 toidea. 



Another good distinction between the Cyathocrinidae and 

 Poteriocrinidae is offered by their mode of articulation. The 

 radials of the former have horseshoe-like facets for the brachials ; 

 in the Poteriocrinidae they are more or less truncate along the 

 upper margin, and united with the brachials by a transverse ridge, 

 occupying a median line and frequently their entire width. The 

 middle part of this ridge is pierced b^^ an axial canal, and there 

 is a kind of muscle plate with more or less conspicuous fossae. 

 The outer edge of the plate is dentated and evidently was occu- 

 pied by ligamentous bundles. In the Cyathocrinidae the arms 

 are always bifurcating, and their branches are given oflf at close 

 intervals ; those of the Poteriocrinidae are frequent!}' simple from 

 the brachial bifurcation upwards, but when bifurcating, the 

 divisions are o;iveu off irregularlv, and branches and main arms 

 bear pinnules alternately from every joint ; there being no S3'zy- 

 gies. The arm joints of the former, with the exception of Bary- 

 crinus, are composed of long, slender joints with almost parallel 

 sutures ; those of the latter are shorter, heavier and strongly 

 wedge-shaped, even interlocking. The same mode of articulation 



^ A similar interpretation at that time was given by us of the anibulacral 

 plates covering the arm furrows of Cyathocrinus iowensis, a mistake which 

 w as rectified by Carpenter (Chall. Rep., pp. 63-GG). 




Il4 PROCEEDINGS OJ" THE ACADEMV OF [1886. 



that unites radials and brachials, extends to all bifurcating 

 plates of the Poteriocrinidap. In Urisocrinus, Eiipachycrinus 

 and Graphiocrmus, species with ten arms, it is found also among 

 the proximal arm plates, not, however, in the allied Scytalocrinus 

 and Decadocrinus, in which all arm plates above the brachials 

 are united by suture or elastic ligament. The same was prob- 

 ably the case in species with branching arms, in which all inter- 

 mediate joints between the axillaries are without either ridges or 

 fossae. A sutural union also connects the brachials in cases 

 where they consist of more than one plate, the apposed faces 

 showing no traces of a syzygy or fossae. In the arms of the 

 Cyathocrinidse there are, so far as observed, no articular ridges 

 nor axial canals, and no ligamentous fossfe, not even between 

 radials and brachials, nor upon the axillaries. The apposed 

 faces of all their joints fit closely together, the distal end being 

 slightly concave, the proximal to the same degree convex, so 

 that we may assert that their mode of union has been either by 

 suture or of a somewhat similar nature, and that the arms were 

 either immovable or their motions limited, and probably of a 

 mere passive character. This difference in the articulation of tlie 

 two types was noticed by J. S. Miller when describing the t3^pical 

 genera, for he placed Cyathocrinus separately among Inarticulata, 

 and Foteriocrinus among Semiarticulata. These names, as 

 applied to the rays, are very characteristic of the two groups, 

 for the Poteriocrinidae are in their articulation much more highly 

 differentiated, approaching in some cases the Neocrinoidea, 

 Miller's Articulata. 



In none of the Poteriocrinidtie has the ventral covering, with 

 the exception of the so-called ventral sac, ever been observed, 

 while that of the Cyathocrinidae is comparatively well known. 

 This, however, is parti}' explained by the condition of the radials, 

 which in the Cyathocrinidie had ample space for the reception of 

 interradials, contrary to the Poteriocrinidae, in which the articu- 

 lation extends over the whole width of the radials, and the inter- 

 radials, partly or wholly, had to rest against the muscle plates as 

 in the Symbathocrinidae. In the Cyathocrinidae the interradials 

 were persistent through life, but they may have become resorbed 

 in the Poteriocrinidae before reaching maturity. The condition 

 of the ventral side among the Cyathocrinidae varies considerably, 

 and even among the species now referred to the genus Cyatho- 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



crinus there are several which range infinitely lower than others, 

 and these should be placed under new genera. 



The azygous side of the Cyathocrinidae consists rarely of more 

 than two plates in the calyx the azygous plate and the anal 

 piece ; but the Poteriocrinidte generally have three, owing to the 

 fact that the first plate of the ventral tube extends often into the 

 calyx. The ventral sac is perhaps more club- or balloon-shaped 

 in the Poteriocrinidae, more cylindrical in the Cyathocrinidae. 

 We subdivide the C3'athocrinid8e into : 



Dendrocrinites, genera with a large azygous and well-developed 

 anal plate, embracing : Merocrinus, Carabocrinus, Dendrocrinus, 

 Homocrinus, Ampheristocrinus and Farisocrinus. 



BoTRYOCRiNiTES, genera having no special azygous plate or 

 occasionally a rudimentary one, and armlets in place of pinnules: 

 Atelestocrinus, Vasocrinus, Botryocrinus, Sicyocrinus, Streblo- 

 crinus and (?) Barycrinus. 



Cyathocrinites, genera without azygous plate, with branching 

 arms without pinnules : Gyathocrinus, Arachnocrinus, Gisso- 

 crinus, Sphaerocrinua^ Achradocrinus^ Godiacrinus and (?) 

 Lecythiocrinus. 



Zittel placed Gissocrinus among the Taxocrinidae, tlie perfectly 

 symmetrical Godiacrinus among the most unsymmetrical Gastero- 

 comidae, and Ophiocrinus, Dendrocrinus and Homocrinus, which 

 are devoid of true pinnules, among the Poteriocrinidie.^ 

 We subdivide the Poteriocrinidae as follows : 



PoTERiocRiNiTES, genera having an azygous plate, a regular anal 

 piece, and the first plate of the ventral sac enclosed in the calyx : 

 Foterioo'inus, Scaphiocrinus, Scytalocrinus, Decadocrinus, Woodo- 

 crinus, Zeacrinus, Hydreionocrinus, Gceliocrinus, Eiipachycrinu:<, 

 Gromyocrinus and Tribrachiocrinus. 



Graphiocrinites, genera without azygous or anal plate, but 

 the first plate of the sac within the limits of the calyx : Graphic- 

 crinus, Bursacrinus^ Phialocrinus and Geriocriniis. 



Erisocrinites, genera without azygous or anal plate dorsally : 

 Erisocrinus and Stemmatocrinus. 



^ Prof. Zittel figures, Handb. d. Palaeont., i, p. 359, as type of the Poterio- 

 crinidae a species devoid of pinnules. Poteriocr. curtus Miiller, is evidently 

 a Hornocrinus. 




11 a PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



Our Poteriocrinidie contain essentially the same genera as those 

 of Zittel, but we except from his list Homocrinus, Dendrocrinus, 

 Agassizocinnus and Belemnocrinus. For the two latter we pro- 

 pose distinct families. 



The Encrinidae are closel}^ allied to the Poterocrinidae, and we 

 think will ultimately be consolidated with them. Nothing, as yet, 

 is known of their ventral structure, but neither of that of the 

 Poterocrinidfe except their ventral tube. There is nothing which 

 proves that the ventral surface of Uncrimis was composed of soft 

 parts, or that it was exclusively perisomic or diffei-ed from that 

 of the Poteriocrinidse which are universally regarded as Palaeo- 

 crinoids. The only difference which we have discovered is that 

 in the Encrinidaj the brachials are united by syzygy and also 

 the proximal arm plates ; contrary to the Poteriocrinidffi in which 

 syzygies, so far as known, do not occur. 



Among Astylocrinidae^ which represent the free floating Palaeo- 

 crinoidea, we include Agassizocrinus and Edriocrinus, the former 

 with underbasals, the latter with basals only. It is very possible 

 that Edriocrinus will prove to be the type of a distinct family. 



The Catillocrinidae contain : Catillocrinus and Mycocrinus. 

 The allied Calceocrinidse only the genus Calceocrinus. 



These ten families are defined by us as follows : 



A. Hybocrinid^. Base monocyclic ; calyx large compared 

 with the arms. Basals 5, unusually large. Kadials irregular, the 

 posterolateral one either unrepresented or very much smaller, and 

 sometimes non-arm-bearing. Arms frequently undeveloped in 

 one or more rays, or recurrent and appressed onto the outer 

 surface of the calyx; simple, and without pinnules. Azygous 

 side composed of a single, large azygous plate, and frequently an 

 anal piece, which in form resembles the right posterior radial. 

 Ventral sac very small, consisting of a mere tumor-like protu- 

 berance. 



B. Heterocrinid.e. Base monocyclic. Calyx small ; plates 

 irregular. Basals 5, variable. Radials irregular, frequently com- 

 pound in one or more rays ; the right posterior radial smaller, 

 resting upon the azygous plate. Brachials consisting of two or 

 more pieces, united by syzygy. Of the succeeding arm joints 

 only every second, third or fourth one pinnule-bearing. Azygous 

 plate large; anal plate consolidated with the right posterior 



I 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrHIA. Ill 



radial, which toward the left supports a series of anal plates; 

 toward the right the brachials. Arms long ; the pinnules some- 

 times take the form of arms, and attain the same general height. 

 Column tri- or quinque-partite. 



G. Anomalocrinid^. Base monocyclic. Form irregular. Calyx 

 cajjacious. Azygous plate large ; supporting the right posterior 

 radial, which toward the right is succeeded by a row of brachials, 

 and toward the left by the ventral tube. Arms composed of large 

 quadrangular joints, giving off pinnules from one side only, from 

 one bifurcation to the next, when all pinnules change to the oppo- 

 site side. Column strong, central canal wide, stelliform, its pro- 

 jecting angles directed inter radially. 



D. Belemnocrinid^. Base monocyclic. Basals large ; cylin- 

 drical ; solid, only pierced b}^ a narrow central canal with a shal- 

 low concavity at its npper end, Eadials small, quadrangular, 

 enclosing an anal plate of the same form. Ventral sac large, 

 club-shaped. Arms long with numerous sj'zygies, only every 

 second or third joint pinnule-bearing. Pinnules long, often 

 bifurcating. Column round or pentangular, frequently with long 

 cirrhi given off interradially. 



E. CYATHOCRiNiDiE. Base dicyclic. Calyx globose, rarely 

 turbinate. Radials with horseshoe-like lateral facets supporting 

 at least two, but frequently several more brachials. Arms without 

 true pinnules, but with branches in regular succession to their 

 tips. Arm joints with a few exceptions long and narrow ; quad- 

 rangular with almost parallel sides ; united either by suture or 

 ligament, apparentl}^ not by muscles. Ventral sac large, C3din- 

 drical. Column round or pentagonal ; central canal rather above 

 medium size, pentagonal, the projections directed radially. 



F. P0TER10CRINID.E. Base dicj^clic. Calyx deep and turbi- 

 nate, or shallow and disk-like, owing to the form of the under- 

 basals, which are either extended into a cup, or are turned inward 

 and concave. Radials somewhat irregular, of variable size, the 

 right posterior one generally smaller ; all truncated at the upper 

 face. Brachials one or two, connected by suture ; the lower or 

 l)roximal face truncate. Arms simple or branching, with pinnules 

 alternately arranged from every joint ; without syz^^gy. Arm 

 joints cuneate or interlocking. Articulation between brachials 

 and radials by muscles and ligament, and also between the upper 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



faces of all axillaries and succeeding plates. Ventral sac large, 

 frequently inflated. Column more or less pentagonal, its outer 

 angles placed interradiall}', the cirrhi radiall3\ 



G. Encrinid^. Dicyclic. Closely allied to the Potei'iocrinidsp. 

 but, as a rule, without anal plates. Basals with well-developed 

 axial canals proceeding to the radials. Their brachials com- 

 posed of two pieces, united by syzygy, frequently with other 

 syzygies in the higher portions of the arms. Arms biserial or 

 uniserial. 



H. AsTYLOCRiNiD^. Pedunculate in earlier life, detached from 

 the column and free-floating in the adult, but not cirihus-bearing. 

 Plates of the calyx massive, and hence the visceral cavity com- 

 paratively small. Underbasals present or absent, and also the 

 azygous piece is sometimes wanting ; while the anal plate is 

 always well developed. 



I. Catillocrinid^. Base nionoc3'clic. The pentamerous sym- 

 metry greatl}' disturbed by the unequal size of the radials. Those 

 of the antero-lateral rays much larger and supporting many more 

 arms. Arms simple; composed of single joints resting directly 

 upon the radials, with a separate socket for each arm, and a furrow 

 for each ambulacrum. Anterior ray, and both posterior rays 

 rarely with more than one arm each. There is no azygous nor 

 special anal plate, one of the posterior radials supports towards 

 the left a large ventral tube, composed of a single row of heavy 

 curved plates, longitudinally' arranged, with an open furrow along 

 their inner, i. e., ventral side. Column circular. 



J. Calceocrinid^. Base monocyclic. Calyx laterally de- 

 pressed ; hanging downward from the column ; composed of 

 three unequal basals, three arm-bearing radials, and two azygous 

 radials without arms. Basals and radials united by ligament, 

 and toward the anterior side by muscles also. In the normal 

 position of the crinoid, the basals are located posteriorly, 

 and the three radials at the opposite side. Anterior radial 

 smaller, compound ; composed of two pieces, which frequently 

 are separated by the overhanging sides of the two lateral radials. 

 Arms of the lateral rays more numerous and branching ; anterior 

 ray with a single arm, which sometimes dichotomizes toward the 

 upper end. Anal tube as in the Catilloci'inidee. 




188fi.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



Family XVII. HYBOCRINIDJE Zittel. 



(Emend. W. and Sp.) 



BAEROCRINUS Volborth. 



1864. Volborth, Eine neue Crinoideen Gattung. (Author's copy, p. 85). 



1865. Volborth, Bulletin St. Petersb. Acad., vol. viii, p. 178. 



1866. Volborth, Bulletin Soc. Imp. de Nat. de Moscow, ii, p. 442. 



1867. Grevingk, Archiv. f. Naturkunde Liv.-Ehst. und Kurlands, Ser. I, 



vol. iv, p. 110. 

 18G7. Grevingk, Uber Hyhocrinus dipentas and Buerocr. Ungarni, Dorpat, 



p. 14. 

 1883. P. Herb. Carpenter, Quart. Jouru. Geol. Soc. London, Augu.-t, 



pp. 298 312. 

 1883. W. and Sp., Amer. .Jour. Sci., vol. xxvi, November, p. 365. 



Syn. Homocrinus Eicbwald (in part), 1865-66 ; Hyhocrinvt 

 Schmidt (in j.art), 1874 ; Zittel (in part), 1879. 



The genus Baerocrinus has been a subject of much controversy 

 ever since 1864, owing to doubts whether the genus should be 

 admitted or rejected. It is unnecessary to give again a full 

 history of these controversies, for which we refer to Dr. P. H. 

 Carpenter's paper " On the Relations of Hyhocrinus, Baerocrinus 

 and Hybocystites,^' and to our notes " On Hyhocrinus, Hoplo- 

 erinus and Baerocrinus,^'' in the American Journal, of 1883. 

 Carpenter agrees with us and with Volborth and Grevingk that 

 Baerocrinus is a good genus, and not, as suggested b}' Eichwald 

 and Schmidt, an abnormal specimen of Hyhocrinus dipentas. 

 There has been also much difference of opinion as to the meaning 

 of certain plates. The type specimen has on its surface, along 

 the basi-radial suture, and between two of the plates within the 

 second or so-called radial ring, a peculiar structure, composed of 

 numerous, irregular pieces, and upon this, principally, Volborth 

 founded the genus. He took this structure to be a madreporic 

 body ; while Grevingk, Eichwald and Schmidt held it to be an 

 accidental break in the test, due to mechanical agencies. Car- 

 penter considered it to be the regular anal opening. He pointed 

 out that it had the position of the anus in the Pentacrinoid larva 

 at its earlier phases. 



We stated in our paper that we did not agree with any of those 

 views. We think it possible that this structure may have served 

 as an anal opening, but as an abnormal one, which had opened 

 out when the regular opening became functionally defective. 

 We also differ from other authors in our interpretation of the 




120 TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



plates. Those of the second circlet have been regarded all five as 

 radials, and the calyx to the top of the radials as being perfectly 

 symmetrical. It looks to us unreasonable, when we compare 

 Baerocrinus with Hoplocrinus and Ryboc7'inus, and finding their 

 structure in other essential points almost identical, that. the one 

 genus should be almost perfectly symmetrical, the other e'x- 

 tremely irregular. And, therefore, it is probable that one of the 

 nyn-armbearing so-called radials represents an azygous plate, such 

 as we find in most of the Fistulata, that the right posterior radial 

 and the anal plate were as yet undeveloped, and that Baerocrinus 

 had but four radials. This interpretation of the plates, it seems to 

 us, is corroborated by the gradual ^disappearance of the azygous 

 plate among allied forms in pala^ontological times, and b}^ the 

 contemporary increase in the dimensions of the right posterior 

 radial and the anal plate. The two latter pieces probably were 

 absorbed from the azygous plate : at first the posterior radial, 

 which in Hoplocrinus took the right upper corner, the left side 

 remaining intact ; afterwards in Hybocrinus the anal piece, which 

 absorbed the left corner of the plate also.^ 



All this goes to prove that Baerocrinus represents a very low 

 organization, or is, according to P. H. Carpenter, " a permanent 

 larval form." 



Revised Generic Diagnosis. Form of the calyx cup- or goblet- 

 shaped. Underbasals wanting. Basals five, subequal and com- 

 paratively large, 



Radials large, irregular, only four of them developed, the right 

 poster o-lateral one absent. Three of the plates equal, the fourth 

 one narrower. A large az3'gous plate occupies the same range 

 with the radials and, like these, rests alternately^ upon the basals. 

 It is undivided, and resembles the radials in form. In the type 

 specimen onlj' three of the radials are arm-bearing, the smaller 

 one not having even an arm-facet. Arms five, simple throughout, 



^ In our paper on Hyhocrinus, Hoplocrinus and Baerocrinus, we stated 

 that probably the azygoiis plate of the latter was liomologous with the 

 anal plate as represented in the larva of Aniedon. In making this state- 

 ment we had overlooked the fact that the latter plate is simply an inter- 

 radial with special function, while the azygous plate in Baerocrinus is as 

 much radial as interradial. They both agree, however, in being absorbed 

 by other plates ; the azygous plate palseontologically by the right posterior 

 radial and anal plate, the other in the growing animal over the whole 

 surface. 




188(1.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



composed of single quadrangular joints and destitute of pin- 

 nules ; the ventral grooves lined by alternate plates. Form of 

 the anus, ventral covering and length of arms unknown. 



Remarks. In our analysis, we have taken the absence of the 

 right posterior radial to be a fixed character. It is, however, 

 possible that this plate was exceptionally undeveloped in the 

 t^-pe specimen, and in this case Baerocrinus Ungerni^ the only 

 known species of the genus, must be placed under Hoplocrinus. 



18fi4. Baerocrinus Ungerni Volborth, Bull, de I'Acad. des Sci. de St. Petersburg of 

 1865, tome viii, p. 178, with plate (adv. sheet), November, 1864, p. :i7. 

 Eiehwaid, 1859, described and figured under the name of Homocr. dipentas 

 Lethieca Ross., v, p. 183; and 1865, Bull, de Moscou, iii, p. 160. Volborth, 

 1865, Baerocr. Ungerni, Bull, de Moscou, iv, p. 442. Eiehwaid, 1866, 

 Homocr. dipentas, Bull, de Moscou, i, pp. 149-161, PI. 8, fig. h. Grevingk, 

 1867, Baerocr. Ungerni, Ueber Hoplocr. dipentas and Baerocr. Ungerni, 

 with plate; also Arch. f. Naturk. Liv. Ehst. and Kurlands, Ser. I, vol. iv, p. 

 110. Schmidt, 1874, Hybocrinus dipentas, Memoires de I'Acad. Imp. des 

 Sci. de St. Petersb., Ser. vii, tome xxi. No. 11, p. .3, PI. 1, Figs. 1-2. P. 

 Herb. Carpenter, 1882, Baerocr. Ungerni, Quart. Jour. Geol. See. London 

 (August), pp. 298-312. W. and Sp., 1883, Baerocr. Ungerni, Amer. Jour. 

 Sci., vol. xxvi, November, p. 365. Brandschiefer, Lower Silurian. Erras, 

 Kussia. 



HOPLOCRINUS Grevingk. 



1867. Grevingk, XJehev Hoplocr. dipentas a,nd Baerocr. Ungerni, p. 9, 

 1867. Greviogk, Arch. f. Naturk. Liev.-Ehst. und Kurlands, Ser. I, vol. 



iv, p. 110. 

 1883. W. and Sp., Anier. Jour. Sci., vol. xxvi, November, p. 365. 



Syn. Apiocrinus, 1843, Leuchtenberg ; 1856, Eiehwaid. Ilomo- 

 crinus, 1859, ^ichw&ld.Eybocrinus, 1864, Volborth ; 1874, F. 

 Schmidt ; 1879, Zittel ; 1882, Carpenter. 



Volborth, F. Schmidt, Zittel and Carpenter have made Hoplo- 

 crinus a S3'nonym of Hybocrinus, although they admit that the 

 two forms differ in the construction of their azj'gous side. We 

 have heretofore directed attention to the fact that the differences 

 in the number and arrangement of the azygous and anal plates 

 have been generall}^ regarded as good characters for distinguish- 

 ing genera, and especially among the Cyathocrinidde and allied 

 families in which those plates frequently form the only means 

 for generic separation. That the one azygous plate in Hoplo- 

 crinus is equivalent to the two in Hybocrinus^ which we have 

 fully admitted, does not warrant an exception in this case, as the 

 differences in the arrangement of the respective plates are 

 evidently the result of modifications from one to another. We, 

 therefore, accept Grevingk's genus, and give the following . 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



Generic Diagnosis. General form pja-iform, more protuberant 

 upon the azygous side. Calj^x composed of five basals, four 

 large radials, and a large azygous plate. The latter with its left 

 side extending to the upper margins of the four large radials, its 

 sloping right side supporting the fifth radial, which is small and 

 triangular, and, taken jointly with the azygous piece as one plate, 

 the two resemble in form the four large radials, only that the 

 arm-facet is pushed to one side. 



Basals large, pentagonal, nearly equal in size. Four of the 

 radials pentagonal, the smaller one subtriangular, resting upon 

 the right sloping upper side of the azygous plate, which is 

 irregularly pentagonal. Arm-facets occupying scarcely one-third 

 of the width of the radials. Arms simple, without pinnules ; 

 composed of quadrangular joints, arranged parallel to each other. 

 Column cylindrical. 



The onl}^ known species is : 



1843. Hoplocrinus dipentas Leuchtenberg (Apiocrinus dipei.tas), Buschreibung 

 neuer Thierreste d. Urwelt von Zarskoje. Selo, yi. 17, Tab. ii, figs. 9-10; 

 also Eichwald, 1856, Bull, de Moscow, i, p. 115. Homocrinus dipentas, 

 1859, Eichwald, Leth. Ross., v, p. 583, Tab. 31, figs, a-c (excl. specimen 

 from Erras). Hybocrinus dipentas, 1864, Volborth, Bull. d. I'Acad. de. St. 

 Petersb., Tome viii, p. 178. Homocrinus dipentas, 1865, Eichw., Bull. d. 

 Moscow, No. ill, p. 159. Hybocrinus dipentas, 1S65, Volborth, Bull, de 

 Mosc, No. iv, p. 443. Homocrinus dipentas, 1866, Eichwald, Bull, de 

 Moscow, No. 1, pp. 149-161, Tab. 8, figs. 2, 3, 4. Hoplocr. dipentas, 1867, 

 Grevingk, Tiber, Hoplocr. dipentas and Baerocr. Ungerni, p. 10, figs. 1 a-f; 

 also Arch, fiir Naturk. Liv. Ehst. uuJ Kurlauds (Ser. i), Vol. iv, p. 110. 

 Hybocrinus dipentas, 1884, Schmidt, Memoires do I'Acad. Imp. des Sci. de 

 St. Petersb., Tome xxi, No. 11, p. 3, PI. i, figs. 4, 5, 6 ; also Carpenter, 1882, 

 Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. London (August), pp. 298-312. Hoplocr. dipentas, 

 1883, W. and Sp., Amer. Journ. Sci., Vol. .\xvi (November), p. 365. 

 Vaginaten Kalk., Low. Silur. Pulkowa, Russia. 



HYBOCRINUS Billings. 



1857. E. Billings, Geol. Surv. Can. for 1853-56 (Rep. of Progr.), p. 275. 

 1859. E. Billings, Geol. Surv., Decade iv, p. 23. 

 1879. Zittel, Handb. d. Palieont., i, p. 350. 



1879. W. and Sp., Rev. of the Palaeocr., i, p. 74. 



1880. Wetherby, Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist. (July). 



1882. Carpenter, Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. London (Aug.), pp. 298-312. 



1883. W. and Sp., Amer. Journ. Sci., Vol. xxvi, p. 365. 



When we defined Hybocrinus., Rev., Pt. i, p. 74, we regarded it as 

 synonymous with Hoplocrinus and Baerocrinus, wliich, we have 

 since shown, are generically distinct. However, in our late 

 paper in the Amer. Journal we made some remarks upon the 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 123 



azygous side, which must be modified. We asserted that the 

 upper end of the anal plate possessed a peculiar crenulated sur- 

 face, a structure which Wetherby had previously described, and 

 which we thought we had observed also in some of his specimens. 

 The fact that the so-called " crenulation " was visible, more or 

 less, in every specimen which Wetherby had sent us for com- 

 parison, led us to believe that it was an organic structure, prob- 

 ably of a similar nature as the pectinated rhombs of the Cystidea. 

 We are now satisfied that we had not sufficiently taken into con- 

 sideration the peculiar state of preservation of Wetherby's 

 specimens, which are not only highly silicified, but the surface 

 of the plates is badly weathered, and more or less destroyed. 

 Through the kindness and liberality of Mr. Walter Billings we are 

 now enabled to give a more satisfactory interpretation of these 

 parts. On receiving our paper he promptly informed us that in 

 the Canadian species of Eybocriniis the azygous plate was not 

 crenulated, but crowded by numerous, very small pieces, forming 

 a short pyramid. He accompanied his description with good 

 figures, and offered us his specimens for examination. In these 

 we found, resting upon the upper side of the anal plates, several 

 rows of minute subquadrangular pieces, about six to the width 

 of the plate, which together form a tumular protuberance without 

 any visible opening. There appear, however, minute pores along 

 the sutures, and it is evident that the protuberance represents a 

 ventral sac, reduced to its minimum size. The crenulated 

 appearance in Wetherby's specimens is evidently the result of 

 weathering, the apparent grooves representing the sutures 

 between the small plates. A similar short protuberance has been 

 observed in Eybocystites, and in all probability was present in the 

 two other genera. 



No new species of this genus have been described since our 

 first discussion. We found several specimens in the Trenton 

 limestone, near Knoxville, Tennessee, but none of them perfect 

 enougli for specific identification. 



HYBOCYSTITES AVetherby. 



(Revised by W. and Sp.) 



1880. Wetherby, Cincin. Joum. Nat. Hist. (July). 



1882. P. Herb. Carpenter, Quart. Joum. Geol. Soc. London, pp. 298-312. 



Hxjhocystites combines, in a remarkable degree, some of the 

 characters of Palaeocrinoidea, Cystidea and Blastoidea. Wetherby 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



describes it as a Cystid, Carpenter was more inclined to place it 

 with the Blastoids ; while we take it to be a Palseocrinoid of low 

 organization. 



There arie several points in Wetherby's description with which 

 we cannot agree. He describes the mouth or ambulacral orifice 

 as situated nearly centrally upon the upper surface. We had 

 several of Wetherby's best specimens for comparison, but were 

 unable to observe in any of them an external oral orifice, and 

 doubt if such an orifice existed in this Lower Silurian genus 

 " upon the surface." Neither can it be ascertained from tiie 

 specimens whether there were proximals surrounding the oral 

 plate. Wetherby further speaks of " a valvular anal opening, 

 placed between the upper azj^gous plate and the mouth," and he 

 mentions " a proboscis or ventral sac " which was said to be 

 " indicated by the presence of the upper azygous plate." If it is 

 meant that the so-called " valvular opening " is separated from 

 the ventral sac, and we infer it from fig. 1 on Plate 5, which shows 

 an irregular break upon the ventral surface in the direction to 

 which he alludes, he is certainly in error. Even if an opening 

 did exist, we doubt if he could have observed small, valvular 

 pieces in specimens in which even the larger ventral plates cannot 

 be distinguished. If he means that the anal opening is connected 

 with the ventral sac, placed along its inner or ventral side, we 

 can partly agree with him. 



Wetherby described the genus as having in three of its rays 

 arms like those of the Crinoidea, in the other two raj^s appressed 

 ambulacra, such as occur in the Cystidea. He does not say any- 

 thing about the length of the three arms, leaving it in doubt, 

 whether he took the three projections to be only the stumps of 

 the arms, or as representing their full length. He only mentions 

 that the arms are composed of a single row of plates, that they 

 are very deeply excavated at the inner side by the ambulacral 

 furrows, and that the latter are covered by a closel}^ interlocking 

 series of small plates, having the same arrangement as those of 

 the two appressed ambulacra. He mentions further a more or 

 less obscure furrow upon the outer surface, " of which nothing 

 further is known." 



Carpenter, in his paper on Hybocrinus and Hyhocystites^ called 

 attention to the fact, that in Wetherby's figures, and in the speci- 

 mens which he had examined himself, only one or two so-called 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



arm joints were shown, that from appearances there had been no 

 others, and that these formed, in all probability, " merely upward 

 prolongations of the radials." He states further that the " more 

 or less obscure furrow," seen by Wetherby upon the outer surface 

 of each arm, was in reality a recurrent ambulacrum, and that in 

 his opinion the relations of Hyhocystites are rather with the Blas- 

 toids and " Crinoids than with the Cystids." Upon the latter 

 point we cannot agree with him, although we admit that there are 

 recurrent ambulacra in all five rays. We think, like Wetherby, 

 that the ambulacra resemble decidedly those of the Cystids, and 

 not those of the Blastoids. Hyhocystites evidently had no hydro- 

 spires and no hj'drospire pores, and the ambulacra, contrary to 

 any of the Blastoids, extend beyond the radials down into the 

 basals. Neither has it calicine pores, nor pectinated rhombs, and 

 hence cannot be a Cystid, even if it has appressed ambulacra, 

 which, we think, take the place of true arms. 



Among the specimens from the Canada Survey Museum, which 

 we had the good fortune to examine through the kindness of Prof. 

 Whiteaves, we examined the type of Lecanocrinus elegans Billings 

 ( Taxocrinus elegans W. and Sp.), one of the earliest of all known 

 Crinoids, and which seems to be destined to throw light upon the 

 peculiar ambulacra of Hyhocystites. This beautiful and well- 

 preserved specimen has upon the outer or dorsal surface of its free 

 arms, upon each one of them, from their tips as far down as the 

 top of the secondary radials, in addition to their regular ventral 

 farrows a recurrent dorsal furrow, such as is found in Hyhocys- 

 tites upon the calyx, and dorsally and ventrally upon the two arm 

 joints. These dorsal furrows are indistinctly represented by 

 Billings in Decade iv, PI. 4, fig. 4 a, although in the specimen 

 they are well defined, and it appears as if they had been lined by 

 a double series of alternating plates. Such dorsal furrows have 

 since been identified also in the tj^pe of Taxocrinus Isevis by 

 Walter R. Billings. That these furrows are continued from the 

 ventral side, and as such form a part of the ambulacra, cannot be 

 doubted, and is further proven by the fact that the furrows 

 diminish in width as they descend the surface of the arms. In 

 these species the regular furrows of the arms probably were not 

 sufficient to supply the animal. This was certainly the case in 

 Hyhocystites, which in two of its ra3^s has no brachial appendages 

 whatever, and these consist in the three other rays of but a few 




12G rROCEEDINQS OP THE ACADEMY OF [188G. 



joints, the ambulacra resting almost exclusively against the dorsal 

 side of the calyx. 



Eybocystites is one of the earliest and lowest forms of the 

 Palseocrinoidea ; it may be regarded as a permanent larval form 

 of Hybocrinus, which had no arms, but in their place food grooves' 

 upon the dorsal side of the calyx. It is interesting that in this 

 case as in that of Baerocrinus, which has similar relations to 

 Hoplocrinus as this has to Hybocrinus, three of the rays are some- 

 what higher developed than the two others. 



We propose the following : 



Revised Generic Diagnosis. Eybocystites agrees with Hybo- 

 crinus in its general form, the arrangement and proportions of 

 the plates in the calyx, in the ventral covering, and in the form 

 and size of the ventral sac, but differs from that genus essentially 

 in the arm structure. It has no underbasals ; five large subequal 

 basals, five radials, one of them much smaller and resting upon 

 the right sloping upper side of the large azygous plate. The 

 latter supporting at its left sloping side an anal plate, in form 

 resembling the adjoining small radial. Arms rudimentary, of 

 the most primitive kind, restricted to the two posterior raj's and 

 the anterior one. They consist, so far as known, of two quad- 

 rangular joints, which are united with the radials by close suture. 

 The joints are provided with an ambulacral furrow, which enters 

 the calyx apparently at the top of the radials as in Hoplocrinus. 

 This furrow passes from the ventral side of the two arm joints, 

 over the top of the upper one, and follows the dorsal side of the 

 plates until reaching the calyx, whence it extends upon the sur- 

 face of the radials to the basals, either entering them or terminat- 

 ing close to the basi-radial suture or along the face of the large 

 azygous plate. The two antero-lateral rays have no arm plates 

 whatever, but each is provided with an ambulacral furrow, pass- 

 ing out from near the top of the radials, traversing these plates, 

 and entering the basals. There is considerable irregularit}^ in 

 their position and length, but as a rule these latter furrows enter 

 deeper into the basals than those of the three other rays. The 

 furrows are provided with two rows of side pieces which are 

 arranged in the usual way. 



Ventral sac short, as in Hybocrinus^ provided along its ventral 

 gide with a small anal opening. Column circular, small. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



The only known species is : 



1880. Hybocystites problematicus Wetherby, Cincin. Joum. Nat. Hist. (July). 

 P. Herb. Carpenter, 1882, Quart. Journ. Gcol. Soc. London (Aug.). Trenton 

 gr. Mercer Co., Ky. 



Family XVIII. HETEROCEINIDJE Zittel. 

 (Emend. W. and Sp.) 



Zittel and S. A. Miller included among tlie Heterocrinidse the 

 genera GrapMocrimis and Erisocrinns, which both have iinder- 

 basals, and which differ essentially in the plates of the azygous 

 side. We place in this family only Heterocrinus, locrinus and 

 our new arenera Stenocrinus and Ohiocrinus. 



The Heterocrinidae differ from the Cyathocrinidae and Poterio- 

 crinidae in the absence of underbasals, in the arm structure, and 

 the arrangement of their azygous plates. 



In 1866, Hall thought he observed in Heterocrinus two rings 

 of five pieces beneath the radials, and he adopted the term basals 

 for those of the proximal ring, and that of subradials for those 

 of the succeeding one. Afterwards, it was proved by Meek, Ohio 

 Paleont., i, p. 2, that the so-called " basals " proximal ring 

 were not plates of the calj'x but parts of the column. He de- 

 scribed the stem to be divided longitudinally, and the so-called 

 " basals," which in their vertical range were said to correspond 

 with the five segments of the column, as constituting the imper- 

 fectly developed uppermost stem joint. Meek proposed for these 

 plates the name " subbasals," and called those of the next ring 

 basals, while we used on Pt. I of the Revision the terms under- 

 basals and basals, respectively, as we took all of them to be 

 integral parts of the calyx. 



We have lately given this subject careful consideration, and 

 found by grinding the column in various species, that important 

 differences exist among the species originally referred to this 

 genus. We found that most of them have a pentapartite column, 

 of which the five sections alternate with the basals without form- 

 ing a part of the calyx, but that the column of Heterocrinus 

 simplex^ Hall's typical species, is tripartite, composed of three 

 equal sections. 



We have elsewhere shown that whenever the column is divided, 

 its sections alternate with the proximal ring of plates in the 

 calyx. They are placed interradially when those plates are under- 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [188G. 



basals, radially when thej' are basals, and as they have in Hetero- 

 crinus and allied genera a radial position, we may assert that these 

 genera had no underbasals. The Heterocrinidae occupj'^, owing to 

 the absence of underbasals, relatively, the same position toward 

 the C^^athocrinidse and Poteriocrinidae as the Actinocrinidse and 

 Platycrinidse hold toward the Rhodocrinidse. They agree with 

 the Cyathocrinidse and Poteriocrinidae in having the azygous 

 interradius extended into a porous ventral sac. 



The arms consist of single joints, are comparatively strong, 

 and either bifurcate or remain simple from above the brachials. 

 The pinnules are given off not from alternate joints, but alter- 

 nately from each second, third or fourth joint. The}- are heavy 

 and long, and sometimes bifurcate near their tips. In the 

 typical form of Eeterocrinus alwa3S two joints are connected b}^ 

 syzygy, but we are unable to prove the syz_ygy in species referred 

 by us to Stenocrinus and Ohiocrinus, unless by the pinnules 

 which are given off regularly from .every third or fourth joint. 

 Most probably in locrinus and Stenocrinus the pinnules, and 

 sometimes even their branches, were developed into regular arms, 

 for the divisions follow each other alternately and at regular 

 intervals, and the branches have no further pinnules. 



The Heterocrinidae agree with the Hybocrinidae in the absence 

 of underbasals, but differ essentially in the proportions of the 

 calyx and ventral sac. In the former the calyx is extremely 

 small, the ventral tube large ; in the Hybocrinidae, on the con- 

 trary, the calyx comparatively large and the sac small. They 

 also differ in the structure of the arms, which in the Hetero- 

 crinidae are more highly developed. 



The structure of the ventral side has been observed only in 

 ^'Eeterocrinus juvenis,^^ where it is composed of five compara- 

 tively large plates, which enclose a small oral plate. The ventral 

 sac throughout the whole family is much stronger than in the 

 Hybocrinidae, reaching sometimes the tips of the arms, and it is 

 profusely perforated. 



Position, Locality, etc. Confined to the Lower Silurian of 

 America. The Heterocrinidae, although forming a neat little 

 group by themselves, may be considered as the forerunners of 

 several types which afterwards became distinct families. Eetero- 

 crinus foreshadows the Belemnocrinidae, locrinus the Poterio- 

 crinidae, while Anomalocrinus is a prophetic type for the Cyatho- 

 crinidae. 




ISST).] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



I. HETEROCRINUS Hall (not Frass). 

 (Restricted and redefined by W. and Sp.) 



1879. Revision Palseocr., Pt. i, p. 68. 



1880. Wetherby, Cincin. Journ. Nat. Hist , July number. 



1881. Wetherby, ibid., April number. 



EeterocrinuSj as defined by Hall and revised by Meek, contains 

 so widely different species that a subdivision becomes necessary. 

 This has been conceded by previous writers. Wetherby, in 

 describing his H. Milleri, expressed the opinion that in the com- 

 parative size of the column, and in the plates of the calyx, that 

 species differed sufficient!}' from Heterocrinus simplex to be sep- 

 arated at least subgenerically. And a year later, he directed 

 attention to his E. Vaupeli, which he thought to be very distinct 

 in the structure of its arms. H. Vaupeli, if it is a good species, 

 which we doubt, agrees in its arms and pinnules closely with H. 

 constrictus and IT. laxus, with either of which it may be identical, 

 but not with H. simplex, as suggested by S. A. Miller. The 

 species heretofore referred to Heterocrinus vary in the composi- 

 tion of their radials, in the structure of arms and pinnules, and 

 in the column. Heterocrinus simplex, Hall's type, has five basals 

 of varying form, owing to irregularities in the radials. The 

 radials in two of the rays consist of a large single plate, two 

 others are divided into two sections, and the fifth one rests upon 

 the azygous plate, which agrees in size with the lower half of 

 the compound radials. The compound i^lates consist of two 

 pieces each, which together, agree closel}- in form and size with 

 the two single plates. The brachials are large ; they consist of 

 two nearly equal plates, united by syzj^gy, and support ten heavy, 

 simple arms. The arms, to their full length, are composed of 

 syzygial joints, which, as we think, were connected by suture and 

 not by articulation. The epizygal or pinnule-bearing pieces are 

 slightly wedge-shaped, and alternate with one another; the lower 

 or h3'pozygal ones rhomboidal, and their upper and lower sides 

 are parallel. Pinnules stout and comparatively long. 



All other species heretofore referred to this genus, with the 

 exception of ^. canadensis, which may be identical with H. sim- 

 plex, have a somewhat different arm structure. Not only are the 

 pinnules given off at greater intervals, but they attain the size 

 and form of arms or armlets, which sometimes branch again, and 

 extend to the general height of the primary arms. The latter 

 agree also in having a stricth' pentagonal and pentapartite 




130 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY Of [1886. 



column, contrary to H. simplex^ in which the column is stouter, 

 almost circular, and regularly tripartite. The species with a 

 quinque-partite column are divisible again into two groups, the 

 one with a straight, comparatively small ventral tube, the other in 

 which the tube is thread-like, convoluted, and even in its coiled 

 state extending beyond the limits of the arms. We hold these 

 differences important enough to malvc them the basis for another 

 separation, proposing for the latter the genus OhiociHnus, with 

 H. laxus Hall = Ohiocrinus laxus as type, and for the other 

 the genus Stenocrinus with H. heterodachjlus JisiW ^= Stenocrinus 

 heterodactylus as type. 



Heterocrinus inaequalis and H. arficulosus Billings have been 

 referred by us to Calceocrinus ; H. crassiis and sitbcrassus 

 to locrinus. 



The genus Heterocrinus thus restricted may be defined as 

 follows : 



Revised Diagnosis. Calyx small ; subcylindrical ; tapering but 

 slightl}' from the column upwards. 



Basals five, more or less unequal, without underbasals ; the so- 

 called subbasals of Meek representing the upper stem joint. 



Radials very irregular, and varying among the rays in number 

 as well as in size. There are two segments in the two antero- 

 lateral rays, while the three remaining rays have but one, this, 

 however, nearly as large as the two in the other rays. The two 

 plates at the right postero-lateral side consist of the az3gous 

 piece the lower one and of the radial, which upon its upper 

 side supports the brachials, giving off laterally a small ventral 

 tube. Arms ten, composed of single joints, alternately united bv 

 syz3^gy, with strong pinnules from every second joint. 



Column tripartite, almost circular ; axial canal large, pentalo- 

 bate, the lobes directed interradially. 



Locality.^ Position^ etc. Trenton and Hudson River group of 

 America, 



1859. Heterocrinus canadensis Billings, Geol. Rep. Can., Decade iv, p. 48, PI. 4, 



fig. 5. -.-Trenton limest. Ottawa and Montreal, Canada. 

 184;i. H. simplex Hall, Geol. Repr. N. York,' vol. i, p. 280, PI. 76, figs. 2a-d; also 



Geol. Surv. Ohio, Paleont. i, p. 7, PI. 1, figs. 4 a-c, 5 a-b, 6 a-b. Hudson 



River gr, Cincinnati, Ohio. 

 *1S7;'. H. grandis Meek, described as H. simplex var. grandis, Geol. Surv. Ohio, 



Paleont. i, p. 9, PI. 1, fig. 6, and figured by Hall as H. simplex in the 24th 



Rep. N. Y. State Mus. Nat. Hist. PI. .3, fig. 11. Hudson River gr. 



Cincinnati, Ohio. H. grandis occurs at a higher horizon, is more robust and 



has shorter arm joints than H, simplex. 




188G.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 131 



STENOCRINUS, nov. gen. 

 (Syn. Heterocrinus in part). 

 {arci'6rT, nari'ow ; Kpivov, a lily). 



Generic Diagnosis. General form subcylindrical ; cal3x small; 

 arms long. 



Basals five ; of a more regular form than in Heterocrinus, 

 angular at their superior margins. They form a cup, which 

 spreads but little from the column upwards. 



Radials irregular, consisting of one or two plates ; two of the 

 rays sometimes three being composed of two segments each, 

 the others of only one. The single plates are almost as large as 

 any of the compound ones. Only four of the radials supported 

 upon the basals ; the fifth one smaller, resting upon the truncate 

 upper side of the azj-gous plate, and occupying toward the latter 

 a similar position as the two sections of the compound radials 

 toward each other. The smaller radial is transversely penta- 

 gonal, and resembles in outline a bifurcating plate. It supports 

 upon its sloping right side the brachials ; toward the left the 

 ventral sac as in locrinus. Brachials generally four to each ray, 

 the upper one axillary, and supporting the two main arms, which 

 sometimes branch again, and give off at regular intervals, from 

 alternate sides, strong, arm-like pinnules. All arm joints which 

 have no pinnules are strictly quadrangular, while the pinnule- 

 bearing joints have almost the form of bifurcating plates. 



Axygous plate pentagonal, shorter than adjoining radials. 

 Ventral tube, near the base composed of qnadrangular, heavy 

 plates, generally longer and narrower than the brachials. The 

 structure of the tube in its upper portions not known. The plates 

 of the ventral side have been observed only in H.juvenis, in which 

 they are composed of five comparatively larga interradial pieces, 

 enclosing a small oral plate as in Haplocrinus. Column large, 

 pentagonal, pentapartite, the sutures directed interradially, giving 

 to the segments a radial position. Axial canal large, pentagonal ; 

 angles interradial.^ 



Geological Position^ etc. Stenocrinus is known only from the 

 Silurian of America. 



We refer to Stenocrinus the following species, all previously 



1 The columnar canal of Stenocrinus is correctly represented in fig. 12 of 

 PI. vi, not, however, in fig. 13, in wliich the rays should be directed inter- 

 radially. 




132 PROCEEDINGS QP THfi ACADEMY OP [1886. 



described under HeterocrinuSj and noted under that genus in 



Rev. I, p. 70 : 



*Stenocrinus heterodactylus, the U'pe of the genus, and its variety prophi- 

 qnut ; *S. exilis Hall (not Meek): 'S. juvenis; S, Milleri, and perhaps 

 Heterocrinus tenuis Billings. 



To these we add : 



*1883. Stenocr. bellvillensis (W. R. Billings), Heterocr. bellvillensis, Ottawa 

 Field Naturalist's Club. Trans. No. 4, p. 49 with plate. Trenton liniest. 

 Bellville, Ont. 



*(?)1879. S. genioulatus (Ulrich), Heterocr. geniculatus, Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. 

 Hist. (April), PI. 7, fig. V^. Utiea Shale. Cincinnati, Ohio. This species 

 differs too much from the other species to be left under Stenocrinus, but the 

 only specimen which we examined was not sufficiently perfect to warrant a 

 satisfactory generic description. 



*1882. S. pentagonus (Ulrich), Heterocr. pentagonus, Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. 

 Hist., p. 176, Pi. 5, figs. 10, 10((. Hudson River gr. Cincinnati, Ohio. 



OHIOCRINUS, nov. gen. 

 (Heterocrimis Hall, in part.) 



This form is closely allied to Stenocrinus^ but differs from that 

 in two points : the form of its arm appendages, and in the con- 

 struction of its ventral sac. 



The plates of the calyx are arranged as in Stenocrinus, and 

 also the column is strong, pentangular and pentapartite. The 

 arms, which are ten, do not bifurcate, and are provided with stout 

 pinnules, given off alternately from every fourth or fifth plate. The 

 pinnules are long, bifurcating, and extend to the tips of the arms. 



The ventral tube rests upon the left sloping side of the right 

 posterior radial; it ascends spirally, and in such a manner that 

 adjoining convolutions touch each other, being perhaps suturally 

 connected. It is composed of numerous hexagonal pieces, 

 arranged alternately, and in longitudinal rows. 



Column strong ; indistinctly pentangular ; pentapartite. The 

 older stem joints are rather long pieces which have a well-marked 

 pentapetaloid concavity upon their articular faces. The j^ounger 

 joints consist of five small convex leaflets, disconnected laterally, 

 which fill the concavity of the older joints, exposing to view along 

 the lateral face of the column a small trigonal piece. A similar, 

 if not the same, columnar structure is found in Stenocrinus.^ 



' Ohiocrinus resembles Stenocrinus very closely, and can only be upheld 

 by the form of the ventral tube. We never saw the appendage of Steno- 

 crinus, but Mr. S. A. Miller claims it to be distinct, and this induced us to 

 make the separation. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



Geological Position, etc Restricted to the Lower Silurian of 



America. 



We place in this genus the following species : 



*iS(i. Ohiocrinus constrictus (Hall), Heterocrinus constrictus, 24th Rep. N. Y. 



St. Cab. Nat. Hist., ]>. 210; also Geol. Surv. Ohio, Paleont., vol. i, p. 3, PI. 



i, figs. 10 a h; W. k Sp., Rev. I, p. 15. Hudson River gr. Cincinnati, 



(Ihio. 

 I8t5(). 0. laxus (Hall). Type of the genus. Heterocrinus laxus, 24th Rep. N. Y. 



St. Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 211, pi. 5, fig. 15; also Greol. Suiv. Ohio, Paleont., 



vol. i, p. 14. PI. i, figs. 8 h.\N. & Sp., Rev., I, p. 70. Hudson River gr, 



Cincinnati, Ohio. 

 *1882. 0. Gehanus (ririch), Heterocr. (locrinus) oehanus, Journ. Cincin. Hoc. Nat. 



Hist., vol. v, p. 175, PI. 5, fig. 9. S. A. Miller, 1883, Heterocr. oehanus, 



Cat. Amer. PalaMiz. Foss. (Edit, ii), p. 283. Hudson River gr. Cincinnati, 



Ohio. 



lOCRINUS Hall. 



1879. Revision of the Palseocr., Pt. I, p. 70. 



1882. P. Herb. Carpenter, Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. London, p. 306. 



1883. W. & Sp., Amer. Joiim. Sl-i., vol.xxvi (Novbr.), pp. 370, 370. 



The genus locrinus must be slightly modified, as stated in our 

 recent notes " on Hybocrinus, Baerocrinus and Hoplocrinus.^'' 

 In that paper, to which we refer for further particulars, we gave 

 at some length the reasons which impelled us to regard the large 

 plate, which we had formerly called a radial, as representing the 

 azj^gous plate, and the smaller pentangular plate above, as the right 

 posterior radial. 



Walcott discovered lately a new generic form,- for which he pro- 

 posed the name Merocrinus. It agrees with locrinus in the 

 structure of the azygous side, and would probably be identical 

 with that genus if it had not well-developed underbasals. That 

 underbasals are entirely absent in locrinus is plainly shown by 

 its strictly pentagonal column, in which the angles have a radial 

 position. 



Revised Diagnosis. Dorsal cup broadly spreading and per- 

 fectly sj'mmetrical to the top of the second circlet of plates ; it 

 is short, and resembles an inverted pentagonal pyramid with the 

 five sides deeply concave. 



Basals small, nearly equal. Radials five, four of them of equal 

 form and height, comparatively large, strong and pentagonal ; 

 their upper sides truncated throughout their entire width for the 

 reception of the brachials. Adjoining these radials, in the same 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



ring, is the azygous plate, which has not only the form but gene- 

 ral appearance of the four radials. It supports upon its truncate 

 upper side the fifth radial, that of the right posterior my. The 

 latter, which resembles in form a large bifurcating plate, sup- 

 ports upon its right upper side the brachials, and toward the 

 left the first plate of the anal tube, being thus a radial, but partW 

 with interradial functions. The radials in all five rays are fol- 

 lowed by five to six brachials, the upper one bifurcating, the 

 others quadrangular, all wider than long, and those of adjoining 

 rays meeting laterall3^ Tiiese are succeeded by the regular arm 

 plates. 



Arms long, gradually tapering to the tips ; bifurcating at regu- 

 lar intervals, and most of their branches bifurcating once or 

 twice again ; each division extending to the general height of the 

 arms. Arm joints quadrangular, resembling those of the brachi- 

 als, but somewhat narrower. 



The ventral sac, at its posterior side, consists of a single row 

 of rather large and strong plates, extending up to the full length 

 of the sac, and forming all the way up a keel-like projection. 

 In general appearance, these plates, which rest against the sloping 

 side of a radial, resemble the brachials and arm plates, although 

 they are somewhat higher and not as wide. Both sides of the 

 ridge-like projection are indented for the reception of other plates. 

 At each side there are two pieces connected to each median plate, 

 one abutting against the middle part, and the other placed oppo- 

 site the suture. These plates are A^ery short and wide, longitu- 

 dinally arranged ; they are curved so as to form a deep transverse 

 groove, their lower sides turned up and forming a transverse 

 ridge. The plates do not meet horizontally, but have a narrow 

 open space at the top of the ridge, which in perfect specimens is 

 covered by a row of minute pieces, apparently with a pore or 

 small opening at the place of juncture with the larger plates. 

 The sac is composed of five rows of these plates, which are con- 

 nected laterally by a straight suture all the way up. 



Column strong, sharply pentagonal, its angles in a line with 

 the radial plates. 



We add the following species to our former list: 



ISSy. locrinus trentonensis Walcott, Adv. sheets of 35th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab. Nat. 

 Hist., p. 4, PI. 17, tigs. 7, 8. Trenton limest. Trenton Falls, N. Y. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



Family XIX. ANOMALOCRINIDJE W. and Sp. 



ANOMALOCRINUS Meek and Worthen. 



1879. Revision Palseocr., Pt. i, p. 72. 



1879. S. A. Miller, Journ. Cincin. Soc, Xat. Hist. (Decbr., ]). G). 



1882. S. A. Miller, ibid. (April, p. 14). 



This senus differs from the Heterocrinidse in the form of the 

 calyx, which is depressed and not obconical, and in the arrange- 

 ment of the pinnules. It agrees with them in the plates at the 

 azygous side, which we misunderstood in our former description, . 

 and this renders a redescription necessary, which we substitute 

 in place of our former one. 



Bevised Diagnosis. General form depressed, calj'x compara- 

 tively large, rather shallow, subglobose ; arrangement of plates 

 extremely irregular, scarcel}' two plates being of equal size. 



Basals five, small, subequal, parti}' hidden by the column. 



Radials irregular, all differing in size and form ; simple or com- 

 pound ; sometimes divided vertically. The left antero-lateral 

 radial is compound, composed of two pieces ; that of the opposite 

 side and the anterior radial are simple. The left postero-lateral 

 radial is the largest plate in the calyx, and either simple or 

 bisected verticall}^ composed of two nearly equal parts. The 

 lower segment of the left antero-lateral radial is subquadrangular, 

 the angle along the basi-radial suture being so obtuse as to form 

 almost a straight line ; upper side truncate and slightly convex. 

 The upper segment is irregularly hexagonal, truncate above and 

 below, much wider at the lower than at the uj^per side, widest 

 across the lateral angles. The two together have almost the 

 dimensions of the single radials, but, in place of being wider than 

 high, they are higher than wide, with a narrow concavity for the 

 reception of the brachials. The fifth radial the right postero- 

 lateral one rests against the truncate ui:)per side of a large 

 az3'gous plate, and as this stands in line with, and has nearly- form 

 and proportions of the lower section of the compound radial, and 

 the radial plate the form of its upper segment, the two appear in 

 the specimen as if forming jointly another compound radial. 

 (See Diagr. Rev. i, PI. ii). 



There is also among the rays a great diversity in the number 

 of brachials, and this gives to the specimen that abnormal, irregu- 

 lar outline which is so characteristic of the genus. Some of the 

 rays have two, others three brachials, while the right posterior 

 ray has generally four or more. 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



Arms long ; bifurcating at regular intervals ; widely divergent, 

 rather stout at their origin ; tapering upward. They are composed 

 of a succession of rather long, quadrangular pieces, interrupted 

 only by the axillaries which are pentangular, and which divide 

 the main arm, and each division of the arm, into two equal parts. 

 The pinnules are slender, composed of long pieces, given off from 

 every arm joint, but at one side only in succession not alter- 

 nately until the next bifurcation of the arm, when on both 

 divisions they all change to the opposite side. By this an-ange- 

 ment there are always 8 to 10 pinnules in succession, first on one 

 side, then on the other. The first pinnule occurs on the second 

 arm plate, not on the first, but every succeeding plate is pinnu- 

 lated with the exception of the bifurcating ones. The proximal 

 pinnule after each bifurcation is considerably heavier and longer, 

 almost arm-like, and bifurcating, the others are simple. The arm 

 furrows are shallow but wide, only one side having sockets for 

 the reception of pinnules.^ 



The ventral sac is tubular, and rests upon the left side of the 

 posterior radial as in the Heterocrinidse. The proximal plate of 

 the tube is large, subquadrangular, and is succeeded by other 

 apparently large pieces. Of the plates at the ventral side little 

 is known. S. A. Miller mentions two rows of small pieces near 

 the ventral tube, but, as nothing is known as to their arrangement, 

 they may be covering plates. 



Column very large, almost circular, pentapartite, highly orna- 

 mented ; central canal large, star-shaped, the projections located 

 interradially. The structure of the column along the axial canal 

 resembles that of Barycrinus and Vasocrinus, with which 

 Anomalocrinus agrees also in the form of the calyx. 



Geological Position^ etc. Lower Silurian of America. The 

 only known species are : Anomalocrinus caponi/ormis Lyon, and 

 A. incurvus Meek and Worthen, which have been previously 

 noted. 



Family XX. BELEMNOCRINID^ S. A. Miller. 



S. A. Miller has proposed for the genus Belemnocrinus a 

 separate family, in which we fully agree. It cannot be placed in 

 any of the other groups, without depriving them of their best 

 distinctive characters. It forms a link between Heterocrinidse 



1 Our descriptions of arms and pinnules in this interesting genus were 

 made from a most beautiful specimen in the collection of J. H. Harris, Esq., 

 of Waynesville, O., who had the kindness to send it to us for description. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 137 



and Cyathocrinidae, resembling the former in the absence of 

 underbasals and in the arm-structure, the Cyathocrinidae in the 

 arrangement of plates at the azygous side and of the ventral 

 tube. As the most characteristic features we mention the 

 extremely small visceral cavity, in which the genus resembles 

 Apiocrinus of the Neocrinoidea ; the comparatively large size of 

 the basals ; the absence of underbasals ; the position of the 

 azygous plate in line with the five radials; the large porous 

 ventral tube, and the condition of the pinnules, which are given 

 off regularly at certain intervals, not alternately from every joint. 



Belemnocrinus was referred by White to the Cyathocrinidae, 

 and he described the calyx to be composed of three rings of 

 plates. We have shown in 187T that the part which he took to 

 be the " basals " is the upper stem-joint, and that the dorsal cup 

 consists of only two rings of plates. We further directed atten- 

 tion to the affinities between Belemnocrinus and the recent genus 

 Rhizocrinus, which had been pointed out also by Pourtales, in 

 the Memoirs of the Museum of Comp. Zoology, vol. iv, No. 9, 

 p. 29. The construction of the dorsal cup in the two genera is 

 very similar, however, in Bhizocrinus, the sutures between the 

 basals are fused together; while in Belemnocrinus they are 

 plainly visible, and the former has no anal plate and no ventral sac. 



Belemnocrinus was placed by Zittel among the Poteriocrinidas, 

 although it has neither the arm structure nor the pinnules of that 

 family, nor the azygous plate, and not even underbasals. 



The name Belemnocrinus was used in 1876 by Munier-Chalmes 

 (Jour. Conch., Ser. 3, vol. xvi, p. 102) for certain basal plates, 

 evidently of a Blastoid, and changed by Oehlert to Belocrinus, 

 1882 (Extr. du Bull. Soc. Geol. de France, Ser, 3, p. 362). 



BELEMNOCRINUS White. 

 (PI. 5, figs. 10 and 11.) 



1862. White, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. ix, p. 14. 

 1866. Meek and Worthen, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 251. 

 1868. Meek and Worthen, Geol. Rep. Illinois, iii, p. 463. 

 1877. W. and Sp., Amer. Jour. Sci. (April), p. 253. 

 1879. Zittel, Handbuch der Palseont., i, p. 362. 



(Not Belemnocrinus Mun.-Chalmes =^ Belocrinus Oehlert.) 



Generic Diagnosis. Dorsal cup small, narrow, sometimes 

 almost tubular. 

 10 




138 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



Basals five, very large, long, narrow, of somewhat irregular 

 shape, forming an ovoid to cylindrical cup. The cup is nearl}^ 

 solid, having only a small central canal, and a shallow subconical 

 excavation at its upper end, the latter forming a part of the 

 viscei'al cavity. 



Radials five, always smaller than the basals, enclosing an anal 

 plate. They are subquadrangular, slightly excavated at their 

 upper side, and support four (exceptionally five) brachials, of 

 which the upper one is bifurcating and gives off the arms. Arms 

 two to each ray, simple throughout, composed of compound 

 joints, with one or two syzygies in each joint ; the upper segment 

 giving ofi" a strong pinnule. The oblique upper faces of the 

 epizjgal or pinnules-bearing joints are arranged alternately, and 

 this gives to the arms a strongly waving, zigzag outline. At the 

 extremities of the arm the pinnules are generally given off from 

 every joint. Pinnules long, arm-like, bifurcating once or twice, 

 like arms. With the arms the pinnules also correspond in length, 

 all of them extending to the same height. 



Anal plate resting between two of the radials and upon one of 

 the basals. This plate, which resembles the radials in form, sup- 

 ports a large ventral sac, composed of numerous hexagonal 

 plates, alternately arranged, with slit-like openings along their 

 lateral edges, which meet with corresponding slits in the adjoin- 

 ing plates. 



Other parts of the ventral side unknown. Column with or 

 without lateral cirrhi ; more or less sharply pentangular, the 

 outer angles radial, the rays of the central canal and the columnar 

 cirrhi directed interradially. 



Geological Position^ etc. Known only from the two divisions 

 of the Burlington limestone. 



1877. Belemnocrinus florifer W. and Sp., Amer. Journ. Sci. (Ser. 3), Vol. xiii, p. 



256. Upper Burlington limestone. Burlington, la. 

 1877. B. Pourtalesi W. and Sp., Amer. Journ. Sci. (Ser. 3), Vol. xiii, p. 258. Lower 



Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1862. B. typus White (type of the genus), Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., Vol. ix, p. 



14. "W. and Sp , 1877, Amer. Journ. Sci. (Ser. 3), Vol. xiii, p. 254. Upper 



Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1866. B. Whitei Meek and Worthen, Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 251 ; also Geol. Rep. 



Illinois, iii, p. 463, PI. 18, figs. 4 a, h, c. Lower Burlington limest. Bur- 



lingtoD; Iowa. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 139 



(?) HOLOCRINUS W. and Sp. 

 (iiXui solid, Kpifui/ a lily.) 



The above name is proposed to include a species whicb was 

 lately described from rather imperfect specimens by Mr. Picard, 

 under the name of Encrinus Beyrichi, but which certainly is no 

 Encrimis. We entertain little doubt that the species must be 

 referred to the Belemnocrinidse ; we are, however, not quite so 

 sure that it is generically distinct from the typical form, which 

 depends upon the presence or absence of the anal plate. No 

 anal plate has been described in this species, and it is more than 

 probable that none was present. It perhaps represents one of 

 those transition forms, which in their earlier life were good Palaeo- 

 crinoids, but by resorption of the interradial plates attained, to 

 some extent, the characteristics of the earlier Neocrinoidea. 



Generic Diagnosis.^ Dorsal cup strictly pentahedral ; con- 

 stricted above the basals. Basals large, forming an almost solid 

 subglobular body, without underbasals. Radials very small, 

 quadrangular, supporting three to four narrow brachials, the 

 upper one bifurcating. There are two arms to each ray which 

 remain simple. Arms thin, composed of short, cuneate joints, 

 with rather stout pinnules. 



Column pentangular, and, as in Belemnocrinus Jlorifer, pro- 

 vided with long cirrhi, given off at intervals in whorls from the 

 nodal joints, and extending up, and partly covering, the calyx 

 and the lower portions of the arms. 



The only known species is : 



1SS4. Holocrinus Beyrichi (Picard), W. and Sp., Zeitschr. d. Deutsch. geolog. 

 Gesellsch., Jabrg. 1883. Mufchelkalk. Sondershausen, Germ. 



Family XXI. CYATHOCRINID.S1 Roemer. 



(Emended Zittel, emended W. and Sp.) 

 a. Dendrocrinites. 

 MEROCRINUS Walcott. 

 1883. Adv. sheet 35th Rep. N. Y. State Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 2. 



In the arrangement of the plates at the azygous side and in 

 the construction of its ventral tube, this genus has close affinities 

 with the Heterocrinidse, but differs from them in having under- 



^ Our diagnosis is made from the figure of Mr. Picard' s imperfect 

 specimen. 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



basals. In addition to Walcott's typical species, we refer to 

 3Ierocrinus: Dendrocrinus curtus Ulrich. 



Generic Diagnosis. Dorsal cup very small ; short and extend- 

 ing laterall}^ but little beyond the periphery of the upper stem 

 joint. 



Underbasals five, comparatively large, seen distinctly in a side 

 view. Basals short, all hexagonal ; alternating with four of the 

 radials and the az3'gous plate, which all are of similar form, pen- 

 tangular, wider than long. The four radials support upon their 

 truncate upper face a row of brachials, the az3'gous plate from 

 the same level the fifth radial. The right posterior radial has 

 the same form as the azj'gous plate, but, while the latter is 

 angular below, the radial has an angular upper side, giving off 

 toward the left the ventral tube, and toward the right a row of 

 brachials. There are generally six or more brachials to each 

 ray, composed of short quadrangular pieces, except the upper 

 which is axilla^3^ Arms long, bifurcating ; without pinnules ; 

 tapering toward the tips ; composed of quadrangular joints. 

 The bifurcations take place at regular intervals, and both arms 

 of the same division are of equal size. 



Column round, very strong, composed of unusually narrow 

 joints. 



Locality^ Position, etc. Lower Silurian of America. 



*1879. Merocrinus curtus (Ulrich), Dendrocrinus curtus, Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist., 

 vol. ii (April), PI. 7, fig. 14. Utica shale. Cincin., 0. 



1883. M. corroboratus Waleott, Adv. sheet 35th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab. Nat. Hist., 

 p. 4, PI. 17, fig. 6. Trenton limest. Trenton Falls, N. Y. 



1883. M. typus Waleott, Ibid., p. 3, PI. 17, fig. 5. Trenton limest. Trenton Falls, 

 N. Y. 



CARABOCRINUS E. Billings. 

 (Revised by W. and Sp.) 



1856. E. Billings, Rep. Geol. Surv. Canada, p. 275. 



1859, E. Billings, Ibid., Decade iv, p. 30. 



1879. W. and Sp. Revision I, p. 143. 



1881. Walter R. Billings, Trans. Ottawa Field Natur. Club, p. 34. 



In Part I of this Revision we placed Garabocrinus among the 

 doubtful genera. It was founded by E. Billings upon certain 

 peculiarities among plates of the azygous side, resembling other- 

 wise closely Gyalhocrinus. When Billings proposed the genus, 

 the azygous side had been observed only in a single specimen, 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



and as the plates were arranged very differentl}'' from those of 

 other genera, we suspected that the type specimen was a mal- 

 formed or recuperated Gyathocrinus. This view, however, must 

 be given up, since other specimens have been found which show 

 the plates under similar conditions. Mr. Walter R. Billings 

 informed us, in 1880, of the discovery of two more specimens in 

 which the azygous plates were arranged as in E. Billings' type. 

 These specimens were afterwards noticed by him in the Trans- 

 actions of the Ottawa Field Naturalist's Club of 1881, p. 35. 



Carabocrinus was described by E. Billings using our termin- 

 ology to be constructed of five underbasals, four of them penta- 

 gonal, the fifth hexagonal ; five basals, three of them hexagonal, 

 one heptagonal and one pentagonal, the latter smaller than the 

 others ; of five radials ; three azygous plates, one of them sup- 

 ported upon the hexagonal underbasal, a second upon the small 

 pentagonal basal, the third between two radials. Consulting the 

 generic diagram, Decade iv, p. 30, we find that the smull, penta- 

 gonal basal (subradial plate of Billings) has scarcely half the 

 size of the other basals, and the first azygous plate is placed at 

 its left side, contrary to all other Cyathocrinidte. This structure 

 seemed to us so improbable that before accepting it we applied 

 to Prof. Whiteaves of the Canada Survey Museum for the type 

 specimen. We now found that in Billings' diagram the plate in 

 question is represented considerably larger than it is in the 

 specimen, the so-called " azygous plate," to the left of the former, 

 smaller, that the basals at their lower sides form in the specimen 

 a much more obtuse angle, almost a straight line, and that the 

 underbasals are comparatively smaller. 



From our diagram it will be seen, that the second or basal ring 

 really consists of six plates, four of them equal, the fifth one nearly 

 as high but somewhat narrower, the sixth subquadrangular, small, 

 not more than half the size of the former. That the laiter piece 

 which is united with the az^-gous plate by a horizontal suture is 

 a basal subradial of Billings seems to us exceedingly doubtful, 

 the more as the adjoining plate meets all the requirements of a 

 basal. This plate, which Billings called the first azygous piece, 

 and which we take to be the posterior basal in conformit}^ with 

 other Cyathocrinidge, has an azygous plate at its right side, 

 and this supports with its right upper sloping side a special anal 

 plate. The small plate within the basal ring, which is only known 




142 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



in this genus, is, we think, a supplementary azygous plate of no 

 fundamental importance, a plate bearing to the regular azygous 

 .plate similar relations as the small accessor}^ interradials in some 

 specimens oi Aychaeocrinus sculjjtus to the regular interradials. 



We offer the following : 



Revised Generic Diagnosis. TJnderbasals five, of vai'iable form 

 and size ; four of them quadrangular, but only three equal ; the 

 fourth one, that facing the azygous side, narrower ; the fifth pen- 

 tagonal, truncate above. Carahocrinus is closely allied to Den- 

 docriniis and Homocrinus, but differs from both in the number 

 and arrangement of its azj^gous plates. 



Basals five, four of them hexagonal ; the one toward the right 

 of the azygous plates heptagonal ; that on the left side somewhat 

 smaller, truncate below, and occupying the full width of the upper 

 side of the pentagonal underbasal. 



Radials heptagonal, the upper side excavated for the reception 

 of the brachials, which occupj' about one-third the width of the 

 plJite. The brachials, so far as known, consist of two or some- 

 times three pieces, the upper one sharply wedgeform. Arms, 

 compared with the size of the calyx, remarkablj^ short ; composed 

 of quadrangular joints with parallel sutures ; bifurcating; tapering 

 gradually to their tips. The branching is similar to that of Cya- 

 thocrinus, and the arms throughout, as in that genus, are devoid 

 of pinnules. 



Plates at the azygous side three. A supplementary azygous 

 plate rests between the basals and extends to half their height. 

 The regular azygous plate is placed between the upper lateral 

 portions of the five basals, and upon the supplementary piece ; 

 supporting with its left upper side the anal plate, with its right 

 side the right postero-lateral radial. The anal plate resembles the 

 radials in form and proportion, but its upper face is irregularly 

 convex, and is bordered by a row of small pieces which form 

 a part of the ventral tube. 



Column comparatively small, obscurely pentangular, with a 

 large, sharply pentagonal canal. The column is quinquepartite, 

 the sutures arranged alternately with those of the underbasals. 



Locality, Position, etc. Known only from the Trenton lime- 

 stone of Canada, but we found detached plates, apparentl}' of this 

 genus, in rocks of the same age near Knoxville, Tonn. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



The following species have been described : 



1856. Carabocrinus radiatus Billings. Type of the genus, Geol. Surv. Canada, p. 

 276; also 1859, ibid. i>ecaueiv, p. 30, PI. 2, figs. .3 a-c ; also W. and Sp., Re- 

 vision i, p. 144. Trenton limest. Ottawa, Can. 



1859. (?) C. tuberculatus Billings, Geol. Surv. Can., Decade iv, p. 3.3, PI. 10, figs. 

 2 a-c. Hudson River.gr. Island ofAnticosti. 



1859. C. Van Courtlandti Billings, Geol. Surv. Can., Decade iv, p. 32, PI. 2, fig. 4. 

 Trenton limest. Township of McNab, Can. 



EUSPIROCRINUS Angl., Rev. I, p. 143. 

 AMPHERISTOCRINUS Hall. 

 1882, 11th Geol. Rep. Indiana of 1881 by Collett, p. 278. 



This is one of the few genera of the Cyatliocrinidae which have 

 only three underbasals, and this distinguishes it readily from 

 Homocriniis , with which it agrees in the plates of the azygous 

 side. 



Generic Diagnosis. Underbasals three, two equal and with 

 truncate upper sides ; the third one-half smaller, angular above. 

 Basals five ; two of them resting entirely upon the two large 

 underbasals ; pentagonal ; the two alternating with them hexa- 

 gonal ; the posterior one, which has a truncate upper side, hep- 

 tagonal. The latter is larger and supports toward the right a 

 pentangular azygous plate ; at its truncate upper side a large anal 

 piece ; along the left side a radial. The azygous plate is followed 

 b}^ the anal plate, which is laterally connected with the right pos- 

 terior radial. The radials are pentagonal, with a small semi- 

 circular excavation for the reception of the arms. Onl}' one 

 brachial is known, which is quadrangular and extremely small. 

 All other parts are unknown. 



The only known species is : 



1882. Ampheristociinus typus Hall, Uth Ann. Geol. Rep. Indiana by Collett, p. 

 278, PI. 15, figs. 17-18. Niagara gr. AValdron, Indiana. 



DENDROCRINUS Hall, Rev. I, p. 75. 



The following species must be added to our list : 



*1856. Dendrocrinus angulatus (Billings), Palaeocrinus angulatus, Geol. Surv. 

 Canada, p. 269: also Decade IV, PI. 3, figs. 6 A. Cyathocrinus angu- 

 latus, Rev. I, p. 85. Trenton limestone. Ottawa, Canada. In examining 

 the tvpe-speciuien in the Canada Survey Museum, we found it to be a good 

 Dendrocrinus. Toward the right of the basals, underneath the postero- 

 lateral radial, it has a good-sized azygous plate, which at its left sloping 

 upper side supports an anal piece, exactly as in Dendrocrinus. The s[iecieg 

 has a strong ventral tube, of which only the transverse section is seen, 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



1881. D. erraticus S. A. Miller, Joum. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist. (December), 1881. 

 Hudson River group. Cincinnati, Ohio. 



1880. D. navigiolum S. A. Miller, Joum. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist. (October), p. 4, 

 PI. 7, figs. 5, 6 a. Utica slate. Cincinnati, Ohio. 



1883. D. retractilis Walcott, 35th Rep. N. Y. St. Mas. Nat. Hist. (Extr. p. 5), PI. 

 17, fig. 4. Trenton limest. Trenton Falls, N. Y. 



HOMOCRINUS Hall, Rev. I, p. 77. 



This genus has been lately so often confounded with Poterio- 

 crinus, that for better information, we point out their distinctive 

 characters. Homocrinus differs from Poteriocrinus in the more 

 slender form of the calyx, in having no plates of the ventral tube 

 within the line of the first radials, in being provided with horse- 

 shoe-shaped articular facets, pierced by a round dorsal canal, and 

 in having at least three brachials. Contraiy to Poteriocrinus^ 

 the arms are not pinnulated, and they are composed of quadran- 

 gular joints with parallel lines of union. Its relations are much 

 closer with Parisocrinus^ which, however, has no separate dorsal 

 canal, and the first plate of the tube rests within the calyx. 



We add the following species : 



*1879. Homocrinus ancilla (Hall), Dendrocrinus ancilla, Trans. Albany Inst., vol. 

 X (Abstr. p. 9); also 11th Geol. Rep. Indiana by Collett, p. 271, PI. 15, fig. 

 19. Niagara gr. Waldron, Indiana. 



*1858. H. curtus (Miiller), Poteriocrinus curtus, Verb. d. naturh. Verein f. Rhein- 

 lande xii, p. 80, PI. 10, figs. 2-3 ; also Neue Echinod. Eifl. Kalk., p. 230, PI. 

 2, fig. 3. Schultze, 1866, Echin. Eifl. Kalk., p. 46, PI. 5. W. and Sp., 

 Parisocrinus curtus, Rev. 1, p. 115. Devonian. Eifel, Germany. 



*1882. H. davisanus (S. A. Miller), Poteriocrinus davisanus, Journ. Cincin. Soc. 

 Nat. Hist., p. 226, PI. 9, figs. 4, 4 a-b. Upper Helderberg gr. Deputy, 

 Indiana. 



*1882. H. nettelrothanus (S. A. Miller), Peteriocrinus nettelrothanus, Journ. 

 Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist., p. 227, PI. 9, figs. 5, 5 a. Upper Helderberg gr. 

 Deputy, Indiana. 



*1876. H. nucleus (Hall), Dendrocrinus nucleus, 1st Edit. 28th Rep. N. Y. St. Mus. 

 Nat. Hist. PI. 15, figs. 7-9. Cyathocrinus nucleus, 2d Edit, ibid., p. 136. 

 Niagara gr. AValdron, Indiana. The arrangement of the plates at the 

 azygous interradius are not like in Cyathocrinus as Hall suggested, but 

 exactly like in Homocrinus. 



*1863. H. polyxo (Hall), Cyathocrinus polyxo, New Sp. Foss. Niagara group, p. 5; 

 28th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab. Nat. Hist. 1st Edit., PI. 15, figs. 10-17. Ibid. 2d 

 Edit. p. 135; also W. and Sp., Rev. i, p. 87; 11th Rep. Indiana by Collett, 

 1882, p. 264, PI. 14, figs. 10-17. Niagara gr. Waldron, Indiana. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 146 



PARISOCEINUS W. and Sp., Rev. i, p. 115. 



Closely allied to Eomocrinus is Parisocrinus, which we made 

 a subsection of Poteriocrinus. In doing so, we were not aware 

 that this form is devoid of pinnules. In our descriptions we 

 only pointed out the great resemblance which it has to Gyatho- 

 crimis, especially in the branching of the arms, but finding the 

 azygous side constructed as in Poteriocrinus, we placed it with 

 that genus. More perfect specimens which have since been dis- 

 covered leave not the least doubt that it is very distinct from 

 Poteriocrinus J and a true Cyathocrinoid. 



Revised Generic Diagnosis. General form turbinate. Under- 

 basals large, equal. Basals five, three of them hexagonal; the 

 two connecting with the azygous side heptagonal. The radials 

 are rarely larger than the basals ; four of them are equal, the fifth 

 one has an additional side for the reception of the lower plate of 

 the ventral tube. Articular face horseshoe-shaped, supporting a 

 row of three brachials, of which the upper one is axillary. Arms 

 composed of long slender joints, branching like those of Gyatho- 

 crinus and without pinnules. The azygous side is arranged as 

 in Poteriocrinus, with three plates in the calyx. Yentral tube 

 long, cylindrical, composed of alternately arranged rows of hexa- 

 gonal pieces, with a pore at each angle. Column round. 



Geological Position, etc. Subcarboniferous. America and 

 England. 



We place here Parisocrinus intermedius, P. nereus, P. per- 

 plexus, P. tenuibrachiatus, P. quinquangularis, P. radiatus and 

 P. salignoideus ; but Poteriocrinus curtus, which we referred to 

 it in Pt, I, p. 115, is a Eomocrinus. 



b. Botryocrinites. 



ATELESTOCRINUS, no v. gen. 



'aTc\c(TTOs, incomplete ; Kplvov, a lily. 



PI. 6, fig. 4, and PI. 9, fig. 4. 



We have had, for several years, a very remarkable Crinoid 

 from the Burlington limestone, which could not be placed in any 

 of the established genera. At first we took it to be an abnormal 

 specimen, with only four radials, and a small non-arm-bearing 




l46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



plate at the anterior side, and therefore did not describe it. It 

 resembles Belemnocrinus in its general appearance, but differs in 

 having underbasals, and euriousl}' enough, these have a similar 

 cylindrical form, and are as solid as the basals in that interesting 

 genus. 



We have since obtained from the Burlington and Keokuk transi- 

 tion bed near Burlington, and from the lower part of the Keokuk 

 limestone proper of Tennessee, two additional specimens, clearly 

 of the same genus, but of a different species. Both specimens 

 show the same irregular structure, i. e., four arm-bearing radials, 

 and in line with them a small azygous, non-arm-bearing plate, 

 thus proving that the apparent irregularity is a persistent char- 

 acter. 



Generic Diagnosis. Form of calj^x elongate, bell-shaped, the 

 sides concave, constricted along the suture between basals and 

 underbasals. Underbasals five, large, forming an almost solid 

 ovo-cylindrical body, pierced onl}^ by a longitudinal canal. Basals 

 long and narrow, widening above, irregular in form ; three of 

 them hexagonal, two heptagonal. Radials four, of nearly equal 

 size, with an obtuse facet covering the greater part of the width 

 of the plate. Anterior radial non-arm-bearing. Like the regular 

 radials, it alternates with the basals, has the same general height, 

 but less than half their width. Brachials from two to four, ex- 

 ceptionally five ; comparatively strong ; with parallel articular 

 lines, except the upper one, which is axillary. Main arms eight, 

 which from every second joint, alternately, give off armlets, or 

 arm-like pinnules of less than half the size of the main arms, but 

 extending to the same height and branching. The arm joints, 

 from which the branches are given off, are formed almost like 

 axillary plates, one side, however, being shorter and slightly more 

 obtuse. The alternate joints are quadrangular. Whether these 

 and the axillaries are united by sj^zygy, could not be ascertained 

 from the specimens. 



Azj^gous plate large, resting between the upper sloping sides of 

 two basals, and against the right posterior radial. It supports 

 towards the left the anal plate, and at its truncate upper side the 

 first plate of the tube. Nothing is known of the ventral side. 

 Column obtusely pentangular, with a medium-sized central canal. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. I4t 



Attelesocrinus delicatus, nov. sp 



Calyx bell-sbapecl ; twice as high as wide, greatly constricted 

 along the sutures between basals and underbasals. Underbasals 

 forming a comparatively long ovo-cjdindrical body. Basal cup 

 funnel-shaped, resting upon the underbasals as if proceeding from 

 their inner cavity. The basals are delicate plates, elongate, gradu- 

 ally increasing in width. Arm-bearing radials wider than high ; 

 each one supporting two brachials. The latter fill nearly the 

 entire width of the preceding plate, and are twice as wide as the 

 true arm plates. Anterior radial narrow, less than half the width 

 of the arm-bearing radials. Arms two to the ray, tapering 

 gradually to their tips, where they become extremely delicate; 

 they have a waving outline, are composed of long joints, and 

 give off armlets alternately from every second plate. All armlets 

 extend to the tips of the arms, and branch once or twice. Their 

 size along the lower part of the arms is only half that of the main 

 arms, but higher up they are of almost equal thickness. Column 

 obtusely pentangular. 



Geological Position^ etc. Lower Burlington limestone. Burling- 

 ton, Iowa. 



Atelestocrinus robustus, nov. sp., PI. 9, fig. 4. 



Larger and much more robust than the preceding species ; less 

 constricted between basals and underbasals ; the form of the 

 latter, taken together, more oblate. Basals twice as long as wide. 

 Arm-bearing radials heavy, wider than high ; the anterior radial 

 less than one-third the size of the others, hexagonal. Azygous 

 side with four plates in the calyx, two of them constituting parts 

 of the ventral tube ; alternately arranged. Brachials four ; three 

 of them quadrangular, the upper one axillarj^ ; all rather large, 

 but decreasing in size upwards. Arms long, comparativel}^ heavy 

 at the base, but tapering rapidl}^ to the tips, where they become 

 very delicate. They are composed of quadrangular, rounded 

 joints, with parallel sutures, giving off armlets alternately from 

 every second joint. The armlets are much thinner, and more 

 pinnule-like than in A. delicatus, but extend like those to the 

 height of the arms, and bifurcate in a similar manner. 



Geological Position, etc. Burlington and Keokuk Transition 

 bed near Burlington, Iowa, and at the base of the Keokuk 

 limestone, White's Creek Spring, near Nashville, Tennessee. 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



VASOCRINUS Lyon, Rev. i, p. 97. 

 STREPTOCRINUS W. and Sp. 



(TrpcTTTds, twisted ; Kpivov, a lily. 



Ophiocrinus Angelin, 1878. Rev. i, p. 97. 



The name Ophiocrinus is preoccupied by Salter, who proposed 

 it in 1856 for a Rhodocrinoid from Southern Africa, which, how- 

 ever, is not properly defined. Semper also used the name in 

 1868 for a Neocrinoid, and again Charlesworth, but without pub- 

 lishing the description. The Swedish form, therefore, requires a 

 new name, for which we adopt Streptocrinus, in allusion to the 

 convoluted state of the ventral tube. 



-'Streptocrinus crotalurus (Angelin), Ophiocrinus crotalurus, Iconogr. Crin. Suec, 

 p. 24, PI. 4, figs. 8 a-c. Upper Silurian. Gothland, Sweden. 



BOTRYOCRINUS Angelin, Rev. I, p. 97. 



SICYOCRINUS Angelin, Rev. I, p. 99. 



BARYCRINUS Wachsmuth, Rev. I, p. 99. 



The genus Barycrinus differs from other Cyathocrinidge in 

 having a shallow cal3'x, constructed of heavy plates, arms massive, 

 and composed of short joints. These differences are so marked 

 that we have strong doubts whether it ought to be placed in this 

 famil3^ 



The diagram of Barycrinus^ PL I, fig. 3, in Part I of this 

 Revision, is incorrect as to the axial canal, which should have 

 shown the processes radzai, instead of interradial. On page 101, 

 of Part I, we were made to say that the sections of the column 

 of Barycrinus are radial and the sutures interradial, whereas it 

 should be that the sections of the column are " interradial and 

 the sutures radial ; the opposite of Heterocrinus, in which they 

 are interradial." 



No new species have been described since our list, but Arach- 

 nocrinus bulbosus (Hall), W. and Sp., was referred by S. A. Miller 

 erroneously to Barycrinus. 



Cyathocrinus subtu^nidus M. and W., which we took to be a 

 Barycrinus, must be changed back to Cyathocrinus. The species 

 is closely allied to Cyathocrinus barydactylus W. and Sp. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 149 



c. Cyathoerinites. 

 CYATHOCRINirS J. S. Miller, Rev. I, p. 79. 



Through the kindness of Prof. Whiteaves we had an oppor- 

 tunity to examine E. Billings' tj'^pe specimens of Palseocrinua in 

 the Canada Surve}^ Museum. The specimen of P. striatus, upon 

 which the genus was proposed, is very imperfect, and may be a 

 Garabocrinus, Dendrocrinus, or a new genus. The construction at 

 the ventral side, to which E. Billings attached so much weight, is 

 that of the C_yathocrinidj3e generally. The^' nearly all have ventrally 

 five interradial plates resting against the radials, and alternate 

 rows of covering plates. Heretofore we have placed Palseocrinus 

 angulatus Billings under Cyathocrinus, but we satisfied ourselves 

 from the original specimen that it is a true Dendrocrinus. Gyatho- 

 crinus fasciatus Hall, is a synonym of Macrostylocrinus Meeki ; 

 Gyathocrinushamiltonen.ns Worthen, a s^monymof Gyathocrinus 

 parvibrachiatus Hall. G. nucleus and C. polyxo Hall are now 

 referred by us to Homocr inus ; G. waldronensis to Macrostylo- 

 crinus. Gyathocrinus graphicus Blgshy (not Hall) is Platycrinus 

 graphicus. 



1879. (?) Gyathocrinus Harris! S. A. Miller, Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. ii, 

 PL 13, fig. 2. Keokuk liinest. Crawfordsville, Ind. 



We leave this species for the present under Gyathocrinus, al- 

 though aware that it represents a very different generic form. In 

 some respects the species closely resembles Belemnocrinus 

 Jlorifer, and might almost be considered identical with it, if the 

 column did not indicate a dicyclic base. The column of both 

 species is sharply pentagonal, and beautifully fringed with whorls 

 of cirrhi, but while in Belemnocrinus Jiorifer the outer anoles of 

 the column are directed radially, the cirrhi interradially, the very 

 opposite is the case in Gyathocrinus (?) Harrisi. Neither can 

 the species be referred to our genus Atelestocrinus, as this is 

 remarkable for its large underbasals, nor in fact to any other 

 known to us, and we should make it the tj'pe of a new genus if 

 the two specimens which we examined were more perfect. The 

 specimen in the collection of Mr. Harris, which he had the kind- 

 ness to send us for examination, leaves us in doubt whether the 

 so-called azygous plate of Miller does not represent the anterior 

 radial. Among the Fistulata the anterior ray very frequently 

 supports a single arm, which either remains simple or branches 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



on a level with the second bifurcation in the other rays, and this 

 may be the case here. Miller in describing the species, we think, 

 had in mind the Silurian genus locrinus^ in which the plates of 

 the ventral sac take the form of arm plates, but these are given off 

 laterall^^ from the azygous plate and not, as it would be here, 

 from the truncated upper side of the anal piece. 



1869. Cyatbocrinus inspiratus {'!) Lyon, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, vol. xiii, p. 4.j7, 



PI. 27, fig. k. Keokuk gr. Crawfordsville, Ind. The description is not 



snffioient for sjiecific identification. 

 1882. C. marshallensis Worthen, Bull, i, 111. St. Mus. Nat. Hist., p. .33, Geol. Rep. 



111., vol. vii, p. 310, PI. 30, fig. 4. Kinderhook gr. Marshalltown, la. (A 



connecting link with Parisocrinus.) 

 *1S44. C. Milleri McCoy (Atocrinus Milleri), Synops. Garb. Foss. Ireland, p. 123, 



PI. 25; F. Roemer, 1855, Leth. Geogn. (2d Ed.), p. 246, PI. 4, fig. 12 ; Bronn's 



Klassen d. Thierreichs, PI. 28, fig. 6. Subcarb. Ireland. 

 (?)IS80. C. (?) stillativus White, Proceed. Nat. Mus. for 1879, p. 25S, PI. 1, figs. 9, 10; 



12th Ann. Rep. Terr, for 1878, by Hayden (Author's Ed., p. 125, PI. 36, figs. 



3 a, b). Carboniferous. Collected 30 miles west of Humboldt, Kansas. 



This is no Cyathocrinus ', it evidently belongs to the Poteriocrinidje, but 



the specimen is too imperfect to be referred properly. 

 *1865. C. subtumidus Meek and Worthen. Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 151 ; 



Barycrinus subumidus Meek and Worthen, 1868. ibid., p. 340; also Geol. 



Rep. III., vol. V, p. 487, PI. 13, fig. 3; W. and Sp.; Barycrinus subtumidus, 



1879, Rev. i, p. 87. Keokuk limest. Green Co., 111., and White's Creek 



Springs, Tennessee. 

 1881. C. Van Horni S. A. Miller, Journ. Cinein. Soe. Nat. Hist., vol. iv (October), 



PI. 6, fig. 3. Niagara gr. Chicago, Illinois. 



(?) SPH^EROCRINUS Roemer. 



In referring Sphserocrinus to the genus Cyathocrinus (Rev. I, 

 p. 83), we overlooked the fact that Roemer's type has separate 

 dorsal canals piercing the radials. Whether this character is 

 sufficient for generic distinction is a question which has never 

 been brought up for discussion. It is in this regard worthy of 

 notice that this structure occurs exclusively in species from the 

 Silurian and Upper Devonian, never in the Carboniferous, neither 

 in Cyathocrinus nor other genera. Whether all species of Cyatho- 

 crinus from Gothland and Dudley possess this structure, cannot 

 be ascertained from the figures, but if they do, it may form tlie 

 basis of a separation which seems to us very desirable. If the 

 genus Sphserocrinus is accepted, it will probabl}' include not only 

 Sphaerocrinus geometricus Goldfuss, Roemer's typical species, 

 but many others. 




1886.'] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 151 



ARACHNOCRINUS M. and W., Rev. I, p. 92. 



In our former list we erroneously placed Poteriocrinus |)m- 

 formis Roemer under Arachnocrinus. From specimens which we 

 obtained lately in western Tennessee, and in which the azygous 

 side and also the brachials are preserved, we are convinced that 

 it is a Lecanocrinus. 



GISSOCRINUS Angelin, Rev. I, p. 89. 



ACHRADOCRINUS Sclmltze. 



1879. Zittel, Handb. d. Palaeont,, i, p. 364. 

 1866. Schultze, Ecliin. Eifl. Kalk., p. 101. 



Schultze in defining this genus thought it to be closely allied 

 to Gasterocoma, and Zittel and de Loriol place it among the 

 Gasterocomidoe. In our opinion, the similarity between Gastero- 

 coma and Achradocrinus is more superficial than real. Gastero- 

 coma has five underbasals, and the column in addition to the 

 axial canal is provided with four peripheral vessels, which are 

 altogether unrepresented in the other form. The two agree only 

 in the position of the anal aperture. The affinities of Achrado- 

 crinus are much closer with Sphaerocrinus, from which it differs 

 only, as far as known, in the position of the anal plate. 



Generic Diagnosis. Dorsal cup deeply cup-shaped ; symmetry 

 decidedly bilateral. Underbasals five, equal, of medium size, 

 extending beyond the column, and visible in a side view. Basals 

 five, four of them angular above, the posterior one truncate, and 

 supporting an anal plate. Radials all meeting laterally, three of 

 them equal ; the two postero-lateral ones deeply excavated for the 

 reception of the anal plate, which they inclose on three sides by 

 meeting above. The radials are slightly notched at their upper 

 margin, and have upon the outer side of the plate a narrow, 

 horseshoe-like articular facet, pierced by a small dorsal canal, 

 which is located at some distance from the notch. At the azj-gous 

 side there is only an anal plate, which is subquadrangular, its 

 lateral margins arched, its upper face narrower and excavated for 

 the ventral sac, which is cylindrical and placed between this plate 

 and the lateral extensions of adjoining radials. The tube has a 

 ventral position owing to the strongly inflected upper portions of 

 the radials. Arms unknown. Column circular ; with a small 

 central canal. 



The only known species is : 



1866. Achradocrinus ventrosus Schultze, Echin. Eifl. Kalk., p. 101, Pi. 12, fig. 6. 

 Devonian. Eifel, Germany. 




152 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



CODIACRINUS Schultze. 



18GG. Schultze, Mouogr, Echin. Eifl. Kalk., p. 31. 



1879. Zittel, Handb. d. Palseout., i, p. 364. 



Godiacrinus is closely allied to Achradocrinus ; the anal plate, 

 however, is here, we think, fully resorbed b}'^ the radials, and the 

 basals consist only of three plates. 



Generic Diagnosis. Of small size ; in the form of a poppy-head, 

 reversed boll-shaped, or subovoid. Plates thin. Symmetry 

 strictly pentamerous. 



Underbasals three, forming a pentagon; two of them larger 

 and hexagonal, the third smaller and rhomboidal. Basals equal, 

 pentangular, Radials equal; all touching laterally; upper face 

 concave, with a narrow semicircular lateral articular facet for the 

 reception of the brachials, and with a separate dorsal canal. 

 There is no anal plate in the dorsal cup. Nothing is known of 

 the ventral side, nor of the arms. 



The only known species is : 



1866. Godiacrinus granulatus Schultze, Monogr. Echin. Eifl. Kalk., p. 31, PI. .3, fig. 

 9. Devonian. Eifel, Germany. 



LECYTHIOCRINUS White. 



1880. White, Proceed. Nat. Mus., p. 256. 



1880. White, 12th Ann. Rep. Terr, for 1878 by Hayden, p. 122. 

 1880. Worthen, Bull, i, Illinois St. Mus. Nat. Hist., p. 37. 

 1880. Worthen, Illinois Geol. Rep., vol. vii, p. 317. 



This name must not be confounded with Lecythocrinus^WaWQX^ 

 which represents a yevy different generic form. The adoption of 

 such similar names, even if permitted by the generally accepted 

 rules, should be avoided. The species for which it was proposed 

 agrees in the arrangement of its calyx plates with Godiacrinus, 

 except the articular facet of the radials, which is wider, directed 

 upwards (not obliquely as in that genus), and it has distinct liga- 

 mentous fossae, but apparently no central canal. 



1882. LecytMocrinus Adamsi Worthen, Bull. I, 111. St. Mus. Nat. Hist., p. 37; also 

 Geol. Rep. 111., p. 817, PI. 30, fig. 8. Coal measures. Peoria Co., 111. 



1880. L. olliculaeformis White, Proc. Nat. Mus. for 1879, p. 256, PI. 1, figs. 4, 5. 

 12th Ann. Rep. Terr, by Hayden, for 1878, p. 12-1, PI. 35, figs. 2 a, 6. Coal 

 measures. Near Humbold, Kansas. 




Proc Acad. Nat. Sc .Philad^ 1886 . 



Plate 



^^-~;:.-...i;y>- 



S.F.^. 



AARON ON NEW PSOCIDAE 




I 




Proc.A.N. S.Phnada.l886. 



PL n. 



m ! 



15 



17 



Hartman on New Species of Parlula. 




i 



I 



t 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 153 



Family XXII. POTERIOCRINIDJE. 



It has been stated that the distinction between Poteriocrinidse 

 and Cyathocrinidae is based principally upon their different mode 

 of articulation. The articulation, however, in the Poteriocrinidse 

 undergoes certain modifications, and toward the close of the Car- 

 boniferous even the calj'x begins to show signs of being capable 

 of slight expansion, if not mobilit}^, the plates being frequently 

 provided with a fossa along their margins ; while in others the 

 plates are united by syzygy. Those fossae which extend over the 

 whole surface of the opposed faces not only occur between the 

 radials, but extend in a vertical direction to the basi-radial suture. 

 That they lodged bundles of ligament is almost beyond doubt, 

 and Dr. P. H. Carpenter, whom we consulted on this subject, 

 regards this union as a suture, but "less close, with longer liga- 

 ments, and therefore more expansible and movable, than in an 

 ordinary suture." A syzygial union is found among the species 

 which Trautschold referred to the genus Gromxjoci'inu:,^ and 

 seems to extend in some of them even to the suture between 

 basals and underbasals, the striation being plainly visible along 

 the suture lines. In some of these genera the articulation between 

 brachials and arm plates is as highly differentiated as in most of 

 the Neocrinoidea, and much more so than in some of them. 



The progressive development in the mode of articulation that 

 takes place from the earlier to the later Poteriocrinidae is, no 

 doubt, of some classificatory value, but we have not been able, 

 as yet, to separate them on this ground, as the respective parts 

 are generally in an imperfect state of preservation, and there 

 appear to be no other distinguishing characters. Moreover, a 

 comparison of the earlier Poteriocrinidae, such as Scytalocrinus, 

 Scaphiocrinus, Pachylocrinus, Cteliocrinus and Graphiocrinus^ 

 with the latter genera E upachycrimis, Zeacrinus^ Hydreionocri- 

 nus, Geriocrinus, Erisocrinus, and of the latter with Encrinus, 

 shows that the two sections shade into one another by such easy 

 gradations, that in many cases it is absolutely impossible to draw 

 a dividing line. 



The genera of the Poteriocrinidae are principall}^ based upon 

 the arrangement of the plates at the az3^gous side, the form of 

 the cal3'x, the proportionate size of the ventral sac, and the 

 branching of the arms. Some of the genera have a well-developed 

 azygous plate, a special anal piece, and one of the plates support- 



11 




154 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



ing the ventral sac enclosed within the cal3^x. Others, such as 

 Graphiocrinus and Geriocrinus, have no azygous plate, but only 

 an anal piece ; while in Erisocrinus^ Stemmatocrinus and Encri- 

 nus no such plate is found, either within the ring of radials or 

 below. In the same degree as palaeontologically the calyx grows 

 more symmetrical, the ventral sac decreases in size, and probably 

 disappeared entirely in Encrinus, which is closely allied to the 

 Poteriocriuidse. Along with these modifications, others are going 

 on which take place in the arms. Throughout every genus, a 

 development goes on from the uuiserial to the biserial arm struc- 

 ture, a feature which has not been observed in anj^ other family 

 of the Fistulata, and which has no parallel throughout the Neo- 

 crinoidea if we exclude Encrinus, which we regard as a somewhat 

 higher developed Poteriocrinoid. Encrinus^ especially, offers in 

 its arm structure a very striking example. Among its species 

 are found arms in all stages of development, some having single 

 quadrangular joints, others two rows closely arranged. The 

 same variations are found in the arms of EupachyciHnus, Gerio- 

 crinus and Erisocrinus ; while in the earlier Poteriocrinites the 

 arms never pass beyond the interlocking stage. That the biserial 

 arm structure was developed from single cuneate joints, and not 

 only palaeontologically, but also in the growing animal, we had 

 op[)ortunity to observe in a very 3'oung Encrinus liliifortnis, in 

 which the arms, to about two-thirds their height, are composed 

 of single joints, which gradually become more cuneate, and 

 toward the tips are interlocking. This one case, we think, alone 

 would be sufficient evidence to prove that the biserial arm struc- 

 ture is the higher form, if it was not confirmed by other speci- 

 mens of this and other groups. If Encrinus were a Neocrinoid, 

 as supposed by Zittel, De Loriol and Carpenter, the Neocrinoidea 

 would begin their existence with the highest differentiated arms 

 known to us, and the arms of all other iSTeocrinoidea up to the 

 Comatulffi of the present seas, would appear to have remained 

 persistently in their larval state. This does not seem to us to 

 favor the idea, -of Encrinus being a Neocrinoid. 



Comparing Erisocrinus with Encrinus^ the only noticeable 

 difference in their fossil state is the presence of a single brachial 

 in the former, and two in the latter. To this P. H. Carpenter 

 alluded (Chall. Rep,, p. 154), admitting it to be "the only point 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



of difference about which we are enabled to speak with certainty." 

 This character, however, is not restricted to Encrinus; we find it 

 more or less among all Poteriocrinidffi, but exclusively there and 

 in the Encrinidae. The two brachials are alwa3'S joined by suture, 

 not by articulation, and this is the case in Encrinus, in which the 

 two pieces are united by s^'zj^gy and form actually one plate. 

 The compound brachial is scarcely more than a specific character, 

 and hence has no value as a distinction between two orders. 



Carpenter takes not only Encrinus, but also Erisocrinus and 

 Stemmatocrinus to be Neocrinoidea, because they have no anal 

 plate. Anal plates, he states, " are absent in Erisocrinus as in 

 Encrinus, and since a ventral tube or sac like that of Cyatho- 

 crinus is always found associated with a system of anal plates, 

 the lowest of which is intercalated between two radials, it seems 

 rash to postulate its presence in the symmetrical Erisocrinus.''^ 

 That our conclusions were not so " rash " as Carpenter suggested 

 is emphatically proved by the fact that an anal plate has actually 

 been discovered by Dr. White in Erisocrinus. It is located above 

 the radials, being enclosed among the interradial plates, where we 

 should have expected it from analogy with other groups. Anal 

 plates are absent also in two genera of the Cyathocrinidse, in 

 Godiacrinus Schultze, and Lecythiocrinus White, which both 

 have a perfectly symmetrical dorsal cup. But does that make 

 them Neocrinoidea ? What more do we know of the ventral struc- 

 ture of the Poteriocrinidse than of Encrinus and Erisocrinus? 

 If Encrinus is a Neocrinoid, why not all Poteriocrinidae ? No- 

 body ever saw the ventral covering in any Poteriocrinoid we 

 have only found the ventral sac. Yet from analogy with Gyatho- 

 crinus and allied forms in which a vault has actually been ob- 

 served, it was generally supposed that vault plates were present 

 also in the Poteriocrinidse. We think the width of the brachials, 

 which in this family frequently occupy the entire width of the 

 radials, gives a satisfactory explanation why the vault plates are 

 not preserved in forms like these. The plates either rested against 

 the sloping edges of the radials as in Stemmatocrinus Traut- 

 scholdi, or only against their articular extensions as in Symbatho- 

 crinus. It is even very possible that the interradials were par- 

 tially or wholly resorbed by the muscular processes of the 

 radials, as these became developed in the growing Crinoid. 



The subdivisions of Poteriocrinus, which we proposed, have 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [188G. 



been accepted by Wetherby and Williams, but ignored b}'^ S. A. 

 Miller and Prof. Worthen.' 



Extensive collections made by us during the last two years, 

 enable us to give additional information respecting these divi- 

 sions. Farisocrinus proves to be not only a good genus, but, 

 moreover, is a Cyathocrinoid, having no pinnules. Pachylocrinus 

 is closer allied to ZeacrinuH than to Poteriocrinus, and is proba- 

 bly identical with Philocrinus. De Koninck described this genus 

 with a monocyclic base, and the calyx strictly pentahedral, but 

 from appearance it had underbasals and az3'gous plates, and is 

 identical with Pachylocrinus. We have redefined Scytalocrinus 

 and Decadocrinus, which should both be ranked as subgenera 

 under Poteriocrinus, and likewise Scaphiocrinus. 



Mr. Percy Sladen, in a paper " On the genus Poteriocrinus and 

 allied forms " (read before the Geol. and Polyt. Soc. at Yorkshire 

 in 1877), separated the English Carboniferous Poteriocrinites 

 into four groups : Poteriocrinus^ Dactylocrinus, Scaphiocrinus 

 and Zeacrinus. To the typical form he referred: P. crassus, P. 

 spissus, P. conicus. P. plicatus^ P. impressus, P. radiatus and P. 

 quinquangularis. We agree with him as to the first four species, 

 but we think the last three are C^^athocrinidffi and should be 

 referred to Parisocrinus. Mr. Sladen, unfortunatel}^ figured 



' S. A. Miller, in the 2d Ed. of his Catal. of Pal. Poss., called them 

 "subgenera of doubtful utility." Prof. Wortheu gives the following rea- 

 sons for refusing their acceptance (Bull, i, Illinois St. Mus. Nat. Hist., p. 

 4): "First, I see no beneficial result that is likely to come from cumbering 

 the nomenclature of paleontology with such terms, and secondly, because 

 any proposed subgeneric formula that groujjs together such diverse forms 

 as Zeacrinus maniformis Y. and Sh., and Poteriocrinus Biselli Worthen, 

 can be of no practical advantage in the study of this group of Criuoids, and 

 hence, until some satisfactory generic cliaractei's can be pointed out by 

 which they may be separated, it seems advisable to include them all under 

 the generic name originally j)roposed by Miller for them." If our good 

 friend had read our paper more carefully, he would have observed that we 

 proposed our six subdivisions of Poteriocrinus with the distinct statement 

 that we "scarcely deemed the characters upon which they are based suffi- 

 ciently important even for subgeneric separation," and that we alluded in 

 detail to the difficulty of referring the " Zeacrinus " maniformis to any of 

 the sections. In proposing these subdivisions, however, we only followed 

 the suggest'on of Meek and Wortheu in 1869 (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 p. 138 and note), where, after defining Scaphiocrinus, Zeacrinus and Ccdio- 

 crinus as subgenera under Poteriocrinus, they add, under the head of Scaphio- 

 crinus : "The group, however, has been extended by Prof. Hall and others 

 so as to include species presenting all the characters given above, and might 

 be divided into several sections, distinguished from each other and from the 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15T 



Parisocrinus radiatus to illustrate the genus Poteriocrinus, a spe- 

 cies without pinnules, with the arms of a Cyathocrinus, but with 

 a PoteiHocrinus arrangement of azygous plates. Under Dactylo- 

 crinus he included P. tenuis, both of Miller and Austin, T. isaco- 

 bus and P. rostratus^ Austin (pars), Monogr. Rec. and Foss. Crin. * 

 PL 9, figs. 2 b, c (non 2 a, d). Comparing Austin's P. tenuis, 

 which Sladen redescribed as Dactylocrinus loreus, with " Poferio- 

 crinus " radiatus, there appears to be considerable difference 

 between the two forms, but comparing it with P. crassus, Miller's 

 typical species, the difference is not so very great. Austin's figure 

 apparently was made from a verj' j-oung specimen, as indicated by 

 the unusuall}?^ long arm joints, and it may be a somewhat aber- 

 rant form of Scytalocrinus. Sladen 's name Dactylocrinus would 

 have priority over Scytalocrinus, had not Quenstedt in 1876 used 

 the same name for a different form. P. isacobus is, in our opinion, 

 a good Poteriocrinus. Sladen refers to Scaphiocrinus: P. latifrons, 

 Austin, which we take to be a Pachylocrinus ; and to Zeacrinus : 

 Gupressocrinus impressus {Cupressocrinus calyx ^ McCoy) ; Pote- 

 riocrinus llcCoyanus, a,nd Zeacrinus Phillipsi. We agree with 

 him as to the latter species, but we doubt if the other three are 

 sufficiently known to assert whether the calices belong to either 

 Zeacrinus, E upachy crinus or Hydreionocrinus. 



typical form, on quite as good characters as those distinguishing the latter 

 from Zeacrinus.'''' At the time of J. S. Miller the genus Poteriocrinus was 

 fully sufficient to hold every species then known, but for each species then 

 known one hundred have been discovered since. 



When we attempted to revise the Poteriocrinites we found .a confusion 

 such as existed in no other group of the PaliBocrinoidea. The subdivisions 

 that had been proposed were so indistinctly defined, and contained such 

 diverse elements, that they rather increased tlie difficulty instead of diminish- 

 ing it. As a temporary remedy we proposed our subdivisions, and expect- 

 ing they would eventually prove to be distinct genera, we applied to them 

 at once generic names. It was at the option of Prof. Worthen to accept 

 these divisions or not, but in adding some fifty or more species to the three 

 hundred already described, he surely would have aided in the identification 

 of his species, and science generally, by referring them to those groups. 

 This would have lightened the labors of others, who are now compelled to 

 look up for comparison every one of his species. Besides, if Prof. Worthen 

 had consulted the Revision, he might have avoided a number of synonyms, 

 which "cumber the nomenclature of paleontology " more seriously than 

 those few systematic names. It is somewhat curious that after refusino- 

 to accept the subgenera proposed by us and Prof. Hall, Prof. Worthen 

 repeatedly employs the specific names which had already been used by 

 previous writers in one or the other of those subgenera. 




158 PEOCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



a. Poteriocrinites. 



POTERIOCRINUS J. S. Miller. 



Rev. I, p. 111. 



Dorsal cup obconical ; plates delicate and frequently covered 

 with wrinldes or radiating plications. Radials with a semicir- 

 cular scar, facing outward, and provided with a transverse artic- 

 ular ridge. Brachials one ; laterally constricted ; sutures gaping. 

 Arms long and branching ; composed of wedge-formed plates. 

 Ventral sac long, constructed of six longitudinal rows of short 

 transverse plates forming a tube ; one of these rows resting upon 

 the anal piece, another upon the third azygous plate. The plates 

 of the tube, which are heavier along their median line, are pro- 

 vided laterally with transverse ridges or plications, which all have 

 long open slits along their margins. Column circular. 



We add the following species to our list : 



1882. Poteriocrinus Clarkii Williams, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., p. 21, PI. 1, fig. 



4. Chemung gr. Steuben Co., N. Y. 



Var. alpha, ibid., p. 22, PI. 1, fig. 5. Chemung gr. Ithaca, N. Y. 

 1882. P. cornellianus Williams, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 18, PI. 1, figs, 1, 2, 



3. Chemung gr. Ithaca, N. Y. 

 1836. P. impressus Phill. (not McCoy, 1854 = Hydreionocrinus McCoyanus, nor 



Richter and linger, 1860). Geol. Yorkshire, p. 205, PI. 4, fig. 1. Austin, 



1843, Rec. and Foss. Crin., p. 10, fig. 6. W. and Sp., Rev. i, p. 120. Sladen, 



1877, On the Genus Poteriocrinus, p. 8. Bristol, England. 

 1882. P. otterensis Worthen, Bull, i. 111. St. Mas. Nat. Hist., p. 14 : also Geol. Rep. 



Illinois vii, p. 283, PI. 28, fig. 4. Otter Creek, Jersey Co., III. 



Species having the characters of the Poteriocrinites, but not sufficiently known 

 to be referred to the proper genus : 



P. aemulus Hall, 1879, Eleventh Indiana Rep., p. 266, is probably a Homo- 



crinus (?). 

 1880. P. anomalos Wetherby, Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist. (July), p. 15, PI. 5, fig. 



6. Kaskaskia gr. Pulaski Co., Ky. This is one of the most perplexing 



species of this group. It agrees neither with Grapliiocrinus, nor Decado- 



crinus, nor ScapMocrinus, nor Eupachycrinus, and really shades into all 



of them. 

 1882. P. araclinaeformis Worthen, Bull, i. III. St. Mus. Nat. Hist., p. 13, PI. 28, fig. 



12: also Geol. Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 281, PI. 28, fig. 12. Keokuk limest. 



Warsaw, 111. 



P. Bockschii Geinitz. Only known to us from quotations. 



P. calyx Hall, 1879 (non De Koninck, 1853), is only defined from basal 



plates. Niagara gr. 

 1882. P. clytis Worthen, Bull. No. 1, 111. St. Mus. Nat. Hist., P. 16 (not P. clytis on 



p. 25); also Geol. Rep. 111., vii, p. 294, PI. 30, fig. 10. St. Louis limest. Monroe 



Co., 111. A very young specimen, as seen by the form of the brachials and 



arm joints j it probably had 10 arms in its adult state. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 159 



1849. P. crassimanus McCoy (not P. crassimanus Eichw.), Ann.and Mag. Nat. Hist. 



(Ser. ii),vol. iii, p. 245. Contrib. Paliuont., p. 106. Carboniferous, Derbyshire. 

 1882. P. illinoisiensis Worthen, Bull, i, 111. St. Mus. Nat. Hist., p. 10 ; also Geol, 



Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 289, PI. 28, fig. 17 Warsaw limest. Warsaw. 111. 

 1844. P. inequidactylus McCoy, Carboniferous Foss. Ireland, p. 179, PI. 26, fig. 8. 



Carboniferous. Ireland. 

 P. minimus Austin (not Ad. Roemer) is probably a synonym of Scaphio- 



crinus isacobus. 

 1882. P. similis Worthen, Bull, i, 111. St. Mus. Nat. Hist., p. 23; also (Jeol. Rep. 



Illinois, vii, p. 295, PI. 30, fig. 12. Kaskaskia limest. Monroe Co., 111. 



This is evidently a young specimen, probably of one of the other species. 

 1882. P. validus Worthen, Bull, i. 111. St. Mus. Nat. Hist., p. 18 ; also Geol. Rep. 



Illinois, vii, p. 287, PI. 28, fig. 16. Warsaw limest. Warsaw, 111. 



SCAPHIOCRINUS Hall, Rev. I, p. 112. 

 (Emend. W. andSp.) 



Dorsal cup obcoiiical to semi-ovoid ; all its plates closel}' united 

 by suture. Radials truncate above, the articular ridge filling 

 almost the entire width of the upper face. Brachials long, simple 

 or compound, similar in form to the radials but truncate below; 

 line of articulation gaping. In species with compound brachials, 

 the two segments have the form and proportions of the one plate 

 in the others, and are joined by suture. Arms long, branching; 

 arm joints rather long, wedge-form. Azygous side as in Poterio- 

 crinus. Column obtusely pentagular. 



Poteriocrinus Jesupi Whitfield, Amer. Mas. Nat. Hist. N. Y., 

 Bull, i (Decbr., 1881), is evidently a synonym of P. Swallovi M. 

 and W. (compare 111. Rep., ii, PI. 16, fig. 4), although Whitfield 

 thinks it distinct in the bifurcation of the arms, and in the number 

 and arrangement of the anal plates. In the type specimen of P. 

 Swallovi only two bifurcations of the arms were preserved, and 

 Meek and Worthen remarked on p. 84, that the arms in the upper 

 parts " seemed to be simple " in this species. The latter is not 

 confirmed by our specimens, of which many have arms and ven- 

 tral sac beautifully preserved ; they all show essentially the same 

 bifurcations as Whitfield's specimen. Slight variation in the num- 

 ber of arm joints in one of the bifurcations cannot be regarded 

 as a good specific character, and even an additional division 

 of the arms may take place in the same species. The apparent 

 variation in the number of " anal " plates is explained by the fact 

 that in the type of P. Swallovi the arms accidentally cover the 

 lower portion of the ventral sac, exposing to view only four plates ; 

 while in Whitfield's specimen a much greater portion of the ven- 

 tral sac is visible. 




160 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



The following species are to be added to our former list : 

 a. With simple brachials. 



*1882. Soaphiocrinus kaskaskiensis (Worthen), Poteriocrinus kaskaskiensis, 



Bull, i, 111. St. Mus. Nat. Hist., p. 27; also Gool. Rep. 111., vii, p. 300, PI. 



30, fig. 15. Kaskaskia limest. Near Chester, 111. 

 *1882. S. latidactylus (Worthen), Poteriocrinus latidactylus, Bull, i, 111. St. Mus. 



Nat. Hist., p. 8; also Geol. Rep. 111., vii, p. 275, PI. 28, fig. 6. Keokuk 



limest. Hamilton, 111. 

 *1884. S. obscurus W. and Sp. (Poteriocrinus tenuidactylus Worthen), Bull, i, of 



the 111. St. Mus. Nat. Hist., p. 6 (not p. 10 ; nor Pot. [Scaph.] tenuidactylus 



M. and W., 1865) ; also Geol. Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 271, PI. 28, fig. 13. Keokuk 



limest. Keokuk, Iowa. The specific name tjeing preoccupied by M. and W. 



in Geol. Rep. 111., iii, p. 490, PI. 18, fig. 10, we propose for this species the 

 . above name. 

 *1882. S. occidentals (Worthen), Poteriocrinus occidentalis Worthen (not Shum.), 



Bull, i. 111. St. Mus. Nat. Hist., p. 10; also Geol. Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 278, 



PI. 29, fig. 2. Keokuk limest. Hamilton, 111. The name Pot. occidentalis 



was preoccupied, in 1852, by Owen and Shum., Geol. Rep. of Wise, Iowa 



and Minnesota, p. 596, PI. 5 b, fig. 5 ; but, as it has since been referred to 



Agassizocrinus, we propose retaining Worthen's name for the above species. 

 *18S2. S. okawensis (Worthen), Poteriocrinus okawensis, Bull, i. 111. St. Mus. 



Nat. Hist., p. 24; also Geol. Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 296, PI. 29, fig. 2. Kas- 



kaskia gr. Okaw River, 111. 

 *1882. S. Orestes (Worthen), Poteriocrinus Orestes, Bull, i. 111. St. Mus. Nat. Hist., 



p. 7; also Geol. Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 273, PI. 27, fig. 3. Keokuk limest. 



Keokuk, Iowa. (Compare with Scaph. Coreyi M. & W.) 

 *1882. S. popensis (Worthen), Poteriocrinus popensis, Bull, i. 111. St. Mus. Nat. 



Hist., p. 23; also Geol. Rep. Illinois, p. 290, PI. 29, fig. 12. Kaskaskia gr. 



Pope Co., 111. 

 *1882. S. propinquus (Worthen), Poteriocrinus propinquus, Bull, i, HI. St. Mus. Nat. 



Hist., p. 26 ; Geol. Rep. 111., vii, PI. 29, fig. 9. Kaskaskia gr. Monroe Co., 111. 

 *1882. S. Salteri (Worthen), Poteriocrinus Salteri, Bull, i, 111. St. Mus. Nat. Hist., 



p. 21 ; Geol. Rep. 111., vii, PI. 29, fig. 18. Kaskaskia gr. Chester, 111. 

 1880. S. spinifer Wutherby, Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist. (July), p. 13, PI. 5, fig. 



5. GrapMocrinus spinifer S. A. Miller, 1883, Catalogue Amer. Pal. Foss. 



Ed. ii, p. 287. Kaskaskia gr. Pulaski Co., Ky. 

 *1882. S. spinobracMatus (Worthen), Poteriocrinus spinobrachiatus (not Hall), 



Bull, i. 111. St. Mus. Nat. Hist., p. 20; also Geol. Rep. 111., vii, p. 290, PI. 



29, fig. 1. Kaskaskia gr. Monroe Co., 111. Hall described in 1861 a 



species under P. (ScapMocrinus) spinobrachiatus, which we referred in 



Rev. i, p. 123, to Graphiocrinus. 

 *1882. S. varsoviensis (Worthen), Poteriocrinus varsoviensis, Bull, i. 111. St. 



Mus. Nat. Hist., p. 20; also Geol. Rep. Illinois, vii. p. 290, PI. 28, fig. 



15. Warsaw limest. Warsaw, 111. 

 *1882. S. venustus (Worthen), Poteriocrinus venustus, Bull, i, HI. St. Mus. Nat. 



Hist., p. 24; also Geol. Rep. 111., vii, p. 297, PI. 29, fig. 13. Kaskaskia gr. 



Monroe Co., 111. 

 %. P. peculiaris Worthen, (described Bull, i. III. St. Mus. Nat. Hist., p. 26, as 



Pot. clytis), Geol. Rep. 111., vii, p. 298, PI. 29, fig. 10. The specimen from 



which the species was described has an anomalous arrangement of anal plates. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 161 



b. With compound brachials. 



*1882. S. briareus (Worthen), Poteriocrinus briareus, Bull, i, III. St. Mus. Nat. 



Hist., p. 12; also Geol. Rep. 111., vii, p. 279, PI. 27, fig. 4. Keokuk limest. 



Keokuk, la., and Bono, Ind. The specific name is given at all places as 



P. briaerius, but evidently was intended for Pot. briareus. 

 1882. S. Burketi ( Worthen). Poteriocrinus Burketi, Bull, i, 111. St. Mus. Nat. Hist., 



p. 5; also Geol. Pi,ep. Illiuuis, vii, p. 270, PI. 28, fig. 8. Keokuk limest. 



Hamilton, 111. 

 *1882. S. coxanus (Worthen), Poteriocrinus coxanus, Bull, i, III. St. Mus. Nat. 



Hist., p. 4; also Geol. Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 269, PI. 27, fig. 1. Keokuk 



limest. Keokuk, Iowa. 

 S. cultidactylus Hall, 1859, was redescribed and figured Geol. Rep. Illinois, 



vii. p. ;iUl, PI. 30, fig. I. 

 18S4. S. extensus W. & Sp., Poteriocrinus asper Worthen, not Pot. (Pachylocr.) 



asper (W. & Sp., Rev. i, p. 116), Bull, i, III. St. Mus. Nat. Hist, p. 11 ; also 



Geol. Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 278, PI. 27, fig. 8. Keokuk limest. Keokuk, Iowa. 

 Poteriocrinus asper being preoccupied, we propose the above name in place 



of it. 

 *18S2. S. iowensis (Worthen), Poteriocrinus iowensis, Bull, i, 111. St. Mus. Nat. 



Hist., p. 6 ; also Geol. Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 272. Keokuk limest. Hamilton, 



111. 

 *1S44. S. macrocbeirus (McCoy), Cyatbocrinus macrocheirus, Synop. Garb. Foss. 



Ireland, PI. 25, figs. 8, 10. Subcarboniferous, Ireland. (This species has 



three brachials.) 

 *187;]. S. montanaensis (Meek), Poteriocrinus montanaensis, Ann. Rep. U. S. Geol. 



Rep. Terr, for 1872, p. 469; also White, 12th Ann. Rep. of the Terr., by 



Hayden, for 1878, p. 128, PI. 3.3, fig. 6 a. Carboniferous. Virginia City 



Montana. 

 *1882. S. nauvooensis (Worthen), Poteriocrinus nauvooensis, Bull, i, III. St. Mus. 



Nat. Hist., p. 13; also Geol. Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 282, PI. 28, fig. 10. 



Keokuk limest. Nauvoo, III. 

 *1882. S. pikensis (Worthen), Zeacrinus pikensis, Bull, i, 111. St. Mus. Nat. Hist., 



p. 304; Geol. Rep. 111., vii, PL 30, fig. 3. Burlington limest. Pike Co., 



Illinois. 

 S1882. S. sculptus (Worthen), Poteriocrinus sculptus, Bull, i, III. St. Mus. Nat. 



Hist., p. 21 ; also Geol. Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 292, PI. 29, fig. 8. Kaskaskia 



gr. Monroe Co., III. 

 (Poteriocrinus subramulosus AVorthen, III. St. Mus. Nat. Hist., p. 14; Geol. 



Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 284, is a synonym of Pot. (Scaphiocrinus) Swallovi 



M. <fc W. This species passes from the upper part of the Upjier Burlington 



into the Keokuk limestone). 



SCYTALOCRINUS W. and Sp., Rev. I, p. 116. 



Syu. Dactilocrinus Sladen, 1877 (not Quensteclt), in pai-t (Ou the genus 

 Poteriocrinus, p. 4). 



General form, including arms, slender, almost cylindrical. 

 Dorsal cup obconical or bell-shaped ; plates strong but not mas- 

 sive, connected by close suture. TJnderbasals well developed, 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



bent upward and forming a conspicuons part of the calyx. Radials 

 and brachials of nearly the same form, apposed faces truncate, with 

 a transverse articular ridge and somewhat shallow fossae ; line of 

 articulation gaping. The brachials either single or compound, 

 generally elongate, constricted along the middle. They support 

 two simple arms each, except in the anterior ray, which some- 

 times has but a single arm. Arms long, rather heavy, composed 

 of quadrangular or slightl}^ cuneiform joints ; pinnules of mode- 

 rate size. Azygous side as in Poteriocrinus ; ventral sac tubular, 

 with slit-like openings, and frequently spiniferous at the distal end. 

 Column circular or obtusely pentagonal. 

 Additional species : 



a. With single brachials. 



*1877. Scytalocrinus loreus (Sladen), Dactylocrinus loreus (Poteriocrinus tenuis 

 Austin, non Miller), Mon. Rec. and Foss. Crin., PL 10, fig. 5. On the genus 

 Poteriocrinus, etc., p. 5. Subcarboniferous. England. 



*1821. S. tenuis Miller, Nat. Hist. Criu., p. 71, PI. 21-23. Dactylocrinus tenuis 

 Sladen, 1877, "On the genus Poteriocrinus, p. 5." 



*1880. S, Wachsmuthi Wetherby, Journ. Cincin. Soe. Nat. Hist. (July), p. 12, PI. 5, 

 fig. 4. Kaskaskia limest. Pulaski Co., Ky. 



b. With compound brachials. 



(Poteriocrinus hamiltonensis Worthen, 1882, Bull, i. 111. St. Mus. Nat. Hist., 

 p. 7; Geol. Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 273, PI. 28, fig. 9, Syn. of Poteriocr. 

 (Scytalocr.) robustus Hall). 

 *1882. Scytalocrinus Talboti (Worthen), Poteriocrinus Talboti, Bull, i. 111. St. Mus. 

 Nat. Hist., p. 17; also Geol. Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 287, PI. 30, fig. 7. St. 

 Louis limest. Monroe Co., 111. 



DECADOCRINUS W. and Sp., Rev. I. p. 119. 



Arms ten, rarely nine, the anterior ray sometimes undivided. 

 Dorsal cup depressed, saucer-shaped, with a deep concavity along 

 the basal regions. TJnderbasals small, not seen in a side view, 

 and frequently covered almost entirely by the column. Form of 

 radials and brachials and articulation as in Scytalocrinus ; brachi- 

 als simple or compound. Arms composed of single wedge-form 

 joints, with keel-like projections at alternate sides, and with 

 strongly waving or zigzag outlines. Pinnules unusually strong, 

 placed far apart, and resembling armlets ; composed of short 

 cuneate joints, with spurs or keels upon theirbasal joints. Azygous 

 side as in Poteriocrinus. Yentral sac more or less club-shaped ; 

 constructed of numerous rows of regularly arranged hexagonal 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



pieces, with a pore at each angle. Column pentagonal, with 

 rounded angles. 



Decadocrinus agrees closely with Graphiocrinus, but the latter 

 has no azygous plate, only an anal piece. 



Additional species : 



a. With simple brachials. 



*1882. Decadocrinus columbiensis (Worthen), Poteriocrinus columbiensis, Bull. 



i, 111. 8t. Mus. Nat. Hist., p. 22; also Geol. Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 293, PI. 19, 



fig. 6. Kaskaskia limest. Monroe Co., 111. 

 *1882. D. fountainensis (Worthen), Poteriocrinus fountainensis, Bull, i, 111. St. 



Mus. Nat. Hist., p. 17; also Geol. Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 286, PI. 30, Fig. 



11. St. Louis limest. Monroe Co., 111. 

 *18S1. D. Milleri (Wetherby), Poteriocrinus Milleri (not Worthen), Journ. Cincin. 



Soc. Nat. Hist. (January), PI. 9, figs. 12, 13. Kaskaskia gr. Pulaski 



Co., Ky. 

 *18S2. D. penicilliformis (Worthen), Poteriocrinus penicilliformis, Bull, i, 111. St. 



Mus. Nat. Hist., p. 8; also Geol. Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 276, PI. 28, fig. 9. 



Keokuk limest. Hamilton, 111. 

 1882. D. zethus Williams. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 27, PI. I, fig. 9. Port- 

 age gr. Ithaca, N. Y. 



b. With compound hracMals. 



1882. D. gregarius Williams. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 22, PI. 1, figs. 6, 7, 8. 

 Chemung gr. Ithaca, N. Y. 



WOODOCRINUS De Koninck. Rev. i, p. 124. 



(Emended W. and Sp.) 



Syn. Parisocrinus W. and Sp. Rev. i, p. 115. 



Syn. Zeacrinus Hall (not Troost) in part. Geol. Rep. la., vol. i, p. 544. 

 Syn. Zeacrinus Sladen, 1877. On the genus Poteriocrinus, etc., p. 7. 

 Syn. (.?) Philocrinus De Koninck, 1862. Quart. Joum. Geol. Soc, London. 



The ventral side of Woodocrinus has not been observed, but 

 we may suppose from the spreading of the arms that its sac was 

 rather bulk3^ This is further suggested by the great width of 

 the azygous side, which, however, is composed of the same 

 elements as in most Poteriocrinites, and is not structurally dis- 

 tinct as has been generally supposed. It has, like Poteriocrinus, 

 within the calyx three azygous plates the succeeding pieces 

 forming the abactinal parts of the ventral sac which for some 

 distance, are exposed between the arms. It differs from Scaphio- 

 crinus in the shortness of its arm joints and arms generally. 

 This it shares, however, with Pachylocrinus as defined by us, and 

 with Zeacrinus Troost. 




164 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



In our description of Zeacrinus (Rev. i, p. 125), we stated the 

 difficulty of separating it from Woodocrinus. The only ditfer- 

 ence, there noted, was the folding up and the smaller size of the 

 arms in the former, and upon this distinction almost exclusively 

 we based the separation. We also stated that the calyx in 

 Woodocrinus was generall}' more turbinate, in Zeacrinus de- 

 pressed with concave basal regions, but also to this rule we 

 found exceptions among the species which had been referred 

 to the latter. Equally impracticable would be a separation 

 upon the arm joints, although these vary considerably among 

 the typical species. The arms of Zeacrinus magnoliaformis are 

 dorsally perfectly flat, those of Woodocrinus macrodactylus 

 decidedly rounded, and Hall, Meek, Worthen and White placed 

 under Zeacrinus species with flat, rounded and angular arms. 



The species which we arranged in Pt. i, under Pacht/locrinus, 

 had been originally, with a few exceptions, described under 

 Zeacrinus. Their arms, like those of the latter, are more or less 

 closelj' folded up, and they dichotomize in a similar manner. All 

 are composed of short quadrangular joints, and all have a club- or 

 elongate balloon-shaped, ventral sa<; ; while the sac in Zeacrinus 

 magnoliaformis is pyramidal, with sharp lateral edges and concave 

 sides. In the latter the form of the calyx is disk-like, in the 

 others bowl-shaped. Mr. Percy Sladen, the only English writer 

 who advocated the necessity of subdividing the original genus 

 Poteriocrinus, placed Poteriocrinus 3IcCoi/a7ius, P. calyx, P. 

 granulosus and F. Phillipsii under Zeacrinus. We fully agree 

 with him that these four species cannot be retained under Poterio- 

 crinus, having close affinities with Zeacrinus, but we believe the 

 three former will prove to be Eydreionocrinus, his Zeacrinus 

 Phillipsii a Pachylocrinus or Woodocrinus, as also Poteriocrinus 

 latifrons Austin, which he referred to Scaphiocrinus. Sladen 

 probably was not acquainted with Troost's type of Zeacrinus. as 

 he took Z. elegans to be a typical form, an opinion in which we 

 have shared until quite recently, when we obtained numerous 

 beautifully-preserved specimens, both of "Zeacrinus " elegans and 

 Troost's typical species, from the Kaskaskia limestone. The 

 later- forms differ from the earlier not only in the form of their 

 ventral sac, but also essentially in the construction of their 

 calyx. In the typical species the dorsal cup is disk-like, almost 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



flat, the radials extremely large, touching with their acute lower 

 angles the underbasals, thereby almost isolating the five basals. 

 The basals in these species consist of minute trigonal pieces of 

 irregular form, and also the underbasals are small, and rest 

 deeply within the columnar concavity (PL 6, fig. 9). In the 

 earlier form, notably " Zeacrinus " elegans, however, the basal 

 cup is bowl-shaped, and the basals are comparatively larger. The 

 arrangement of the azygous pieces upon which DeKoninck 

 placed so much stress in defining Woodocri7ius, \s, in our opinion, 

 not diflerent from that of Poteriocrinus or Scaphiocrinus, only 

 more plates of the ventral sac are exposed to view, owing to the 

 width of the azygous side, and as we see no other distinction 

 between Woodocrinus and our Pachylocrinus, we place the 

 species which we had referred to the latter, including '' Zeacrinus^'' 

 elegans and a few others of the same type, under Woodocrinus^ 

 as this name has priority. Perhaps, if all American species were 

 as distinct as " Zeacrinus " elegans from Woodocrinus macrodac- 

 tylus, it might be possible to make the former the type of a 

 separate group, but as we find all intermediate forms, from 

 infolding arms to spreading arms, and two to five or more bifur- 

 cations, flat, angular and rounded arms, any such separation must 

 be adandoned. 



Fhilocriaus, De Koniuck, from Punjaub, India, is probably, to 

 judge from the figure, a species of Woodocinnus. We think it has 

 azygous plates, but these were covered by matrix in DeKoninck's 

 specimen. We also doubt if the arm plates of first and second 

 order were laterall}' connected b}^ suture ; these evidently were 

 free as in the Fistulata generally. 



Revised Diagnosis. Calyx sometimes obconical, more fre- 

 quently depressed-bowl-shaped, and the underbasals bent inward, 

 forming a concavity. Basals large, constituting a continuous 

 ring beneath the radials. Az3^gous plates arranged as in Poterio- 

 ciHnus ; ventral sac slightly inflated. Brachials composed of one 

 or two pieces, which jointly have the form and size of the radials ; 

 they are wider than long, and their lateral margins are fitted 

 closely together as if they were united by suture. This infolding 

 of the brachials extends also to the arm plates up to the second 

 bifurcation; and is often found throughout the full length of the 

 arms. The arm joints are short, quadrangular, rarely cuneate, 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



the apposed faces, more or lefes parallel and flat, angular or 

 rounded on their outer face. The arms dichotomize and each 

 branch gives otf one or more branches to the inner side of the 

 ray, which either bifurcate again or remain simple. The articu- 

 lation is the same as in Scaphiocrinus. Column circular, or 

 obtusely pentangular. 



The zoological position of Woodocrinus is probably between 

 Scaphiocrinus and Zeacrinus. 



Geological Position, etc. The genus occurs only in the Subcar- 

 boniferoiis, and almost exclusively in the lower portions. 



We place under Woodocrinus the following species, all of which 

 were referred by us. Rev. i, p. 116, to Pachylocrinus : Zeacr'inus 

 arboreus Worthen, Zeacrinus asper M. and W., Zeacrinus concin- 

 nus M. and W., Poteriocrinus latifrons Austin, Scaphiocrinus 

 liliiformis M. and W., Zeacrinus merope Hall, Zeacrinus paternus 

 Hall, Zeacrinus perangulatus White, Zeacrinus planobrachiatus 

 M. and W., Pachylocrinus suhsequalis W. and Sp., and the follow- 

 ing, which in Rev. i, p. 128, were placed under Zeacrinus : Pot- 

 eriocrinus hursaeformis White, Zeacrinus elegans Hall, Zeacrinus 

 ramosus Hall, Zeacrinus scohina M. and W., Zeacrinus serratus 

 M. and W., and Zeacrinus troostanus M. and W. 



The following species are to be added : 



*1882. Woodocrinus asperatus (Worthen), Poteriocrinus asperatus, Bull, i, 111. St. 

 Mus. Nat. Hist., p. 12, also Geol. Rep. Illiuois, vii, p. 280, Pi. 28, fig, 2. 

 Keokuk limest. Keokuk, la. 



*1882. W. claytonensis (AVorthen), Poteriocrinus claytonensis, Bull, i, 111. St. Mus. 

 Nat. Hist., p. 18; also Geol. Rep. lUinuis, vii, p. 288, PI. 30, fig. 6. War- 

 saw limest. Adams Co., 111. 



1862. (?) W. cometa (De Koninck), Philocrinus cometa, Quart. Journ. Geol. See. 

 London, PI. ii, fig. 1. Suboarboniferous. River Indus, India. 

 1854. W. macrodactylus De Koninck. Type of the genus, Recherch. Crin. Belg., 

 Suppl., p. 6, PI. 8, figs. 1 a-d. Suboarboniferous. Richmond, England. 



*1882. W. richfieldensis (Worthen), Poteriocrinus richfieldensis, Bull, i, HI. St. 

 Mus. Nat. Hist., p. 15; also Geol. Rep. 111., vii, p. 285, PI. m, fig. 5. 

 Waverly (Kinderhook) group. Richfield, 0. 



188.3. W. tentaculatus (Worthen), Poteriocrinus tenuidactylus. Bull., i, III. St. 

 Mus. Nat. Hist., p. 10 ; Poteriocrinus tentaculatus, Geol. Rep. Ilinois, vii, 

 p. 277, PI. 28, fig. 11. Keokuk limest. Keokuk, la. Prof. AVorthen finding 

 the former specific name occupied, changed it to the latter. This species is 

 a typical form of Woodocrinus, and has the heavy rounded arms as De 

 Koninck's species. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



ZEACRINUS (Troost MS.) Hall, Rev., i, p. 125. 



Revised W. and Sp. (PI. 6, fig. 9, and PI. 9, fig. 3). 



Zeacrinus differs from Woodocrinus (Pachylocrinus) in the 

 form of the ventral sac, which, as described by us, is pyramidal, 

 sharply angnlar and pointed at the upper end ; while that of 

 Woodocrinus is club-shaped, inflated above. The two genera 

 differ also in the construction and form of the dorsal cup, which 

 in Zeacrinus is much more depressed and disk-like, Basals 

 exceedingly small, trigonal, deeply notched for the reception of 

 the radials. The underbasals at the inner floor of the calyx are 

 generally larger than they appear at the outer side, and the 

 angles of the radials sometimes touch the underbasals. Plates 

 of the calj'x massive, especially the radials, their distal faces 

 sloping outward ; articular facets with muscular extensions. 

 Arm plates generally flat, except the axillaries, which frequently 

 are tuberculous. The arms dichotomize toward the inner side of 

 the ray from each main division, the branches rarely dividing 

 again. The arm joints are short, transversely arranged, those of 

 the same rank slightly increasing in width upwards, those of the 

 next order narrower by one-half than the preceding bifurcating 

 plate. By this structure, the arms. of each ray, and of the main 

 divisions of the rays, form laterally a straight line, by means of 

 which they fit in so closely against the arms of adjoining rays, 

 that thc}^ often appear as if united by suture. Column round, 

 comparatively small. 



We now recognize under Zeacrinus only the following species, 

 viz. : Zeacrinus bifurcatus, Z. compactilis Worthen ; Z. magnolia- 

 formis 0. and N.; .^. ovalis Lyon and Cass.; Z. Wortheni Hall, 

 and our new species Z. nodosus, all other species which were re- 

 ferred bj^ us to this genus are found now under Woodocrinus. 



Zeacrinus nodosus, nov. sp. (PI. 6, fig. ;!). 



The largest known species of the genus. All plates of calyx 

 and arms nodose, except basals and underbasals ; the nodes on 

 , all axillaries, and the first plate of each succeeding order of arm 

 plates, almost covering the entire surface of the plate ; while at 

 the intermediate plates the nodes have more the shape of small 

 tubercles, arranged so as to occupy an excentric position, leaning 

 slightly toward the wider or pinnule-bearing side, thereby forming 

 along the arms two rows of nodes, alternately arranged. 



Underbasals of medium size, extending beyond the column, 




168 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



forming a shallow inverted cup, decagonal at the outer side, 

 Basals trigonal, ver}'' minute, irregular in size, the two anterior 

 ones smaller than the others. Radials large ; broadly truncate 

 below ; subquadrangular in outline but hexagonal ; the three 

 lower faces scarcely as wide as the lateral ones, and narrower by 

 one-half than the upper side. Brachials 1X5; four of them tri- 

 angular, giving off two arms each ; the anterior one quadrangular, 

 with only one primary arm. The arms bifurcate on the fifth 

 plate, and again on the tenth to fifteenth ; the higher divisions 

 are not known." In this species, exceptionall}'^, the inner arms 

 branch again. 



Azygous plate elongate, resting upon the underbasals ; the 

 right lateral face, which is slightly convex, abutting against the 

 right posterior radial, its upper side supporting the anal plate ; 

 leaning with its left lateral side against the other radial, and with 

 its lower sloping side against the adjoining basal. 



Geological Position.! etc. Keokuk limestone. White's Creek 

 Springs, near Nashville, Tenn. 



CCELIOCSINUS White, Rev. I, p. 131. 

 Syn. Sphreronites Phill., Palseoz. Foss. Cornwall, p. 135. 



We have heretofore made Coeliocrinus a subgenus of Hydreio- 

 nocrinus, owing to slight variations in the form and construction 

 of the ventral sac, which we thought to be the only distinctive 

 character. Beautiful specimens, however, which we obtained since 

 in Kentuck}^, show that the two forms differ in their mode of ar- 

 ticulation in a similar manner as WooclociHnus and Zeact'inufi, 

 Scytalocrinus and Eupachycrinus, which we ranked as full genera. 

 In Coeliocrinus the calyx is conical, in Hydreionoci'inus depressed 

 saucer-shaped. 



Coeliocrinus is found also in Europe. Phillips, in his work on 

 the Palseoz. Foss. of Cornwall, gives on PI. 59 a good figure of 

 what we take to be the balloon-shaped ventral sac of this genus. 

 His figure was copied from the Geol. Trans, (new ser.), vol. iii, 

 PI. 20, which had been published with a note by Mr. Broderip, 

 " calling attention to some analogy between this fossil and 

 Chelyosoma macleayanum, a species of tunicate Mollusca, which 

 has a few coriaceous plates on the upper surface ont}^" Phillips, 

 and apparently Austin, took it to be allied to Echinosphe rites of 

 Wahlenberg, and called it provisionally Sphseronites tessellafuSj 

 which we propose to change into Coeliocrinus tessellatus. 




* 



1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



In its arm structure Cceliocriniis leans decidedly toward Woodo- 

 crinus, but approaches Eydreionocrinus in the form of its sac- 

 like appendage. 



We have already referred to it Cceliocrinus dilatatus (Hall) 



White; G. carr/u/erMS (Worthen) W. and Sp.; G. lyra (Worthen) 



W. and Sp. ; G. subspinosus White, and G. ventt^icosus (Hall) 



White, and now add further : 



1840. C. tessellatus (Phill.), Spseronites tesseUatus, Pala^oz. Foss. Cornwall, p. 

 135, PI. 59. Subcarbon. (?). Locality (?). 



HYDREIONOCRINUS De Kon., Rev. I, p. 123. 



Wetherby, in a paper on the Crinoids of Pulaski Co., Ken- 

 tucky, figured and described a new species of Eydreionocrinus, 

 which he referred with doubt to Eydreionocrinus (Zeacrinus) 

 armiger (M. and W.). Several fine specimens of this form, which 

 we obtained lately at Sloan's Yalley, Ky., show it to be specifically 

 distinct from either E. armiger or E. de23ressus of the same 

 localit3^ We propose for it the name Eydreionocrinus Wether- 

 byi, in honor of the discoverer of this interesting locality. The 

 species, which was figured Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. iii, 

 figs. 7, 8, 9, 10, difiers from E. depressus, y^ith which it has prob- 

 ably the closest aflfinities, in the less depressed form of the dorsal 

 cup, and in the basal concavity, which is shallow and almost re- 

 stricted to the underbasals ; while in the other the cup is deeply 

 excavated, and the concavity includes even a portion of the 

 radials. In our species, every brxichial bifurcates, in the other 

 only four ; the anterior radial which is quadrangular, supporting 

 a single primary arm. In the former all five radials are spinifer- 

 ous, in the latter only four, and the spines are shorter and sharper. 

 In E. depr^sus the primary arms branch four times, in E. 

 Wetherbyi only twice, and the arms, which in the former taper to 

 a small point, remain comparatively heavy in the latter. Again, 

 in E. depressus the arm joints, from the second bifurcation up- 

 wards, are biserial, while in E. Wetherbyi they do not pass the 

 interlocking stage. In the former the ventral sac is armed with 

 ten spines which join along the centre, the latter has five only, 

 and these enclose a variable number of small plates. 



Eydreionocrinus (?) orbicularis De Koninck will be found 



under Cromyoci'inus. 



*1884. H. Wetherbyi W. and Sp. Hydreionocrinus (Zeacrinus) arminger (M. & 

 W.) Wetherby, Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Ilist., iii, p. 5, figs. 7-10. Kaskas- 

 kia gr. Pulaski Co., Ky. 

 12 . 




no PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



CROMYOCRINUS Trautschold. 



(Eeconstructecl W. and Sp.) 



1867. Trautschold, Crin. jiing. Bergkalk bei Moskau, p. 19. 

 1879. Trautschold, Monogr. Kalkbr. von Mjatschkowa, p. 117. 

 1879, Zittel, Handb. der Palseont., i, p. 360. 



Syn. Eupacliycrinus in part (W. and Sp.), Revision i, p. 133. 



Syn. Hydreionocrinus in part (De Koninck); Syn. Agassizocrinus in 



part (Worthen); Syn. Poterioerinus in part (McCoy), 



Placing Gromyocrinus as a synon^-m under Eupachycrinus, we 

 found it impossible to uphold the genus upon any of the charac- 

 ters that had been pointed out by Trautschold. Wetherby has 

 asserted (Journ. Cincin. Soc. IN^at. Hist., iir, p. 8), that the genus 

 was " well fitted to embrace all those species having three or more 

 anals, a body composed of comparatively heavj^, convex plates, 

 and ten arms composed of a single row of joints," He further 

 proposed to refer to Eupachycrinus all those species of this 

 group having one or more anals, heavy rounded calj^x plates, ten 

 to fourteen arms, and these composed of a double series of inter- 

 locking plates. The biserial arm structure, which is only a higher 

 form of the uniserial one, is as closely intermingled with the latter 

 in the Russian form as in the typical Eupachycrinus, and also 

 the plates of the calyx are heavy and convex in both groups. 

 The only distinction of Wetherby upon which perhaps a separa- 

 tion of the species referred by us to Eupachycrinus might be 

 established, is the number of azygous plates. We can separate 

 the species with a single plate from those with three pieces, as 

 proposed by White. A division of this kind, however, does not 

 in the least affect Gromyocrinus^yfYaoh, like the typical Eupachy- 

 crinus, has three azj^gous plates. But Gromyocrinus differs from 

 the typical form of Eupachycrinus, in the form of the calyx, the 

 relative size of the various plates, and in their mode of union. 

 In all American species of Eupachycrinus, the form is de- 

 pressed, more or less saucer-shaped, and the underbasals, which 

 are very small and totally covered by the column, rest within a 

 deep concavity together with the lower portions of the basals. 

 The latter plates, and also the radials, are comparatively large, 

 the underbasals small. In Gromyocrinus the calyx is globular, 

 constricted at the upper "end, the underbasals large, extending 

 conspicuously beyond the column and forming a shallow cup. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



The basals are so extremely large, the radials so comparatively 

 small, that the former, together with the imderbasals, frequently 

 constitute over three-fourths of the cup, while in Eupachycrinus 

 the same parts occupy not more than half that space. Besides, 

 the plates of Gromyocrinus are united by syzygy, and not by 

 ligamentous fossse, as in most species of Eiqjachycrinus. 



Our attention was directed to these facts by a species figured 

 and described by De Koniuck under the name of Eydreionocri- 

 nus (?) globularis, which in a somewhat higher degree has all the 

 characters of Gromyocrinus, and at the same time resembles cer- 

 tain forms described under Agassizocrinus. 



To Agassizocrinus have been referred two very distinct groups, 

 the one almost always without column or even columnar attach- 

 ment, with a large almost solid, subglobular or semiovoid under- 

 basal cup, nearly truncate upper side, and small basals. The 

 other, always attached to a column, with comparatively small 

 underbasals, stretched out horizontally so as to form a five-rayed 

 star, and with extremely large basals partly on the same plane 

 with the underbasals. The latter species, which include Agassizo- 

 crinus globosus and Agassizocrinus papillatus, both described by 

 Worthen, agree most closely with Hydreionocrinus (?) globularis 

 De Koninck; Poteriocrinus nuciformis McCoy ; Gyathocrinus (?) 

 sangamonensis M. and W., all previously referred by us to Eupa- 

 chycrinus, and all agree equally well with Gromyocrinus simplex 

 from Russia. These species, we think, might be arranged under 

 Gromyocrinus, and the only thing which prevented us from doing 

 so before, is the similarity with Trautschold's two other species 

 {Gromyocrinus geminatus and G. orna^ws), which in their arm 

 structure and general form approach Epachycrinus ; while they 

 agree in other points with Gromyocrinus sim2')lex. 



Gromyocrinus is closely allied to Agassizocrinus, to which it 

 holds a similar position as Pentacrinus to Antedon. We doubt 

 if Gromyocrinus QYQx became detached from its column, while all 

 species of AgassizociHnus lose their column comparatively early. 



Generic Diagnosis. Dorsal cup globular, constricted above; 

 composed of heavy plates ; sometimes (perhaps always) united 

 by syzygy. 



Underbasals comparatively large, plainly visible beyond the 

 column, horizontally arranged and forming a sharply delineated 

 star, or sometimes a very shallow cup with a slight depression for 




1'J2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



the attachment of the column ; suture lines well defined. Basals 

 large ; generally as high or higher than wide ; three of them equal, 

 hexagonal ; the two adjoining the azygous side heptagonal, larger 

 and of a different form. 



Radials all pentagonal ; the lateral faces often so short as to 

 give to the plates a trigonal outline ; their outer faces abruptly 

 depressed or rounded off toward the brachials ; upper side straight, 

 facing upward ; articular ridge well developed and occupying the 

 full width of the plate. The right posterior radial narrower than 

 the others, its lower left side disturbed by the azj-gous piece. The 

 azygous plate is very large, placed in a sloping position, its two 

 lower sides resting between two basals, its left side against the 

 adjoining radial. The small truncate upper side supports the first 

 plate of the ventral sac, the right side faces the anal plate, which 

 is always considerably smaller, and extends beyond the limits of 

 the radials. Brachials one or two ; short ; laterally touching their 

 fellows of adjoining rays. Arms 5 to 10 or more ; heavy, composed 

 of short quadrangular joints, which change into cuneate pieces 

 and in some species interlock. Arm furrows wide ; pinnules 

 strong. Articulation between radials and brachials and between 

 the lower arm joints by transverse ridges and fossse. 



Ventral sac imperfectly known, but evidently short. Column 

 small, circular ; axial canal minute. 



Geological Position, etc. Gromyocrinus is found in the upper 

 portion of the Subcarboniferous of Russia, England, Scotland, 

 Belgium, and of the United States. 



We place here the following species : 



1867. Gromyocrinus geminatus Trautschold. Referred by us, Rev., i, p. 138, to 

 Eupachycrinus. 



*1873. C. globosus (Worthen), Agassizocrinus globosus, Geol. Rep. Illinois, vol. v, 

 p. 557, PI. 21, fig. 12. Kaskaskia gr. Chester, Illinois. 



*1858. C. globularis (De Koninck), Hydreionocrinus (?) globularis, Memoirs de 

 Paleont., p. 21, PI. 2, figs. 1-4. Referred by us. Rev. i, p. 138, to Eupachy- 

 crinus. Upper part of Subcarboniferous. Near Glasgow, Scotland. 



*1849. C. nuciformis (McCoy), Poteriocrinus nuciformis, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 

 (Ser. ii), not P. nuciformis, Goldfuss (Fischer); also 1854, Contrib. Brit. 

 Palaeont. by Sedgwick, p. 116. Subcarboniferous. Derbyshire, England. 



. 1879. C. ornatus Trautschold. Referred by us, Rev., i. p. 138, to Eupachycrinus. 



*1867. C. papillatus (Worthen), Agassizocrinus papillatus, Bull., i. 111. St. Mus. 

 Nat. Hist., p. 36; also Geol. Rep. 111., vii, PI. 29, fig. 17. Kaskaskia gr. 

 Monroe Co., 111. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 173 



*186l. C. sangamonensis (M. and W.), Cyathocrinus (?) sangamonensis). Referred 

 by us, Rev., i, p. 1^8, to Eupachycrinus. 

 1867. 0. simplex Trautschold (Type of the genus). Formerly referred by us to 

 Eupachycrinus. 



EUPACHYCRINUS M. and W., Rev., i, p. 1.33. 

 (Restricted, W. and Sp.). 



Accepting- the genus Gromyocrinus, we have to consider only 

 those species in which the cup is depressed or saucer-shaped, with 

 small underbasals hidden from view and placed at the end of the 

 basal concavity. These species, however, are divisible again into 

 two groups : a, species with three azygous plates within the dorsal 

 cup, i. e., the typical form of Eupachycrinus^ and : b, species with 

 a small anal plate, partly extending into the equatorial regions, 

 for which White proposed the genus Geriocrinus. Accepting 

 also this division (see Geriocrinus), a.nd admitting into Eupachy- 

 crinus such species as " Gromyocrinus " gracilis Wetherby, which 

 has but five arms, and Eupachycrinus spartarius, Miller, with 

 fourteen arms, we must modify our former generic formula so as 

 to admit species with five to fifteen arms in place of ten, as we 

 had previously given it. Thus restricted, Eupachycrinus is a 

 strictly American genus, embracing only the following species : 



Eupachycrinus Bassetti Worthen, E. Boydii, E. crassus, Meek 

 and Worthen, E. formosus Worthen, E. orbicularis (Hall), E. 

 quatuor-decim-hrachiatus (Lyon), E. subtumidus Worthen, E. 

 tuberculatus M. and W., and E. verrucosus White, all previously 

 reported, and perhaps also E. plafybasilis White, which is very 

 imperfectly known, and may be a Zeacrinus. 



We also place here : 



1882. Eupachycrinus asperatus Worthen, Bull, i. 111. St. Mus. Nat. Hist., p. 34; 

 also (reol. Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 311, PI. 29, fig. 4. Kaskaskia gr. Monroe 

 Co., Illinois. 

 *1880. E. gracilis (Wetherby), Gromyocrinus gracilis, .Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. 



Hist., p. 4, PI. 16, figs. 2 a, b, c. Kaskaskia gr. Pulaski Co., Ky. 

 1847. E. maniformis (Shum.), Zeacrinus maniformis. This species was referred 



by us Rev. i, p. 117, to Scytalocrinus. 

 * E. Moorei (Whitfield), Zeacrinus Moorei, Palcont. Ohio, vol. iii, PI. 11, 



figs. 6, 10. Coal measures. Hocking Co., 0. (not published). 

 1882. E. monroensis (Worthen), Bull, i, 111. St. Mus. Nat. Hist., p. 34; also Geol, 

 Rop. 111., vii, p. 312, PI. 19, fig. 16. Kaskaskia gr. Monroe Co., Illinois. 

 1879. E. spartarius S. A. Miller, Journ. Cincin. Soe. Nat. Hist. (April), PI. 8, fig. 

 2. Kaskaskia limest. Pulaski Co., Ky. 

 Syn. E. germanus S. A. Miller, ibid., PI. 8, fig. 3. 




n4 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



TRIBRACHIOCRINUS McCoy. 



1847. McCoy, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., xx, p. 228. 

 1859. Pict^t, Traite de Paleont., vol. iv, p. 321. 



1884. F. Ratte, Proceed. Linnsean Soc. of New South Wales, vol. ix, 

 Part 4. 



(Diagram, PI. 6, fig. 5). 



This genus was originally proposed for a single specimen from 

 the Subcarboniferous of Australia. According to McCoy, it 

 differs from Gyathocrinus and allied genera by having only three 

 arms. The cup is described as cupuliform, large, composed of 

 three plates in the proximal ring, 5 plates in the succeeding one, 

 followed by 1 X 3 radials, 3 interradials, and one or two anal 

 plates. A similar explanation of the plates has been given lately 

 by Mr. Ratte, who described another species in which " the second 

 radials," the brachials according to our terminology, were pre- 

 served. Mr. Ratte had the kindness to send us an excellent cast 

 of the type specimen, examination of which leads us to infer that 

 the third ring of plates in the calyx was composed of seven 

 pieces, of which five were radials, the two others azygous plates, 

 but that none of them are interradials. In three of the radials, 

 the articulating faces form a straight horizontal line, and only 

 these plates are apposed by regular brachials, the two others, 

 those of the two antero-lateral rays being angular and higher at 

 their distal ends. The general outline of the two last mentioned 

 plates, indicates that they are compound plates, each representing 

 a radial and a bifurcating brachial, which probably became 

 anchylosed. They evidently supported two arms, one at each 

 side ; while the three radials with articulated brachials apparently 

 bear but a single arm like Gr-omyocriyius simplex Trautchold. 

 Ratte observed in Tribachiocrinus corrugatiis along the ventral 

 surface between the brachials, " the casts of very small plates, 

 irregular in shape, which doubtless belong to the so-called voute 

 (vault), or outer part covering the calyx as in Bhodocrinus, for 

 instance." We seriously doubt if these plates, which he figures 

 on PI. 68, fig. 2, are any such thing as vault plates ; we believe if 

 they are plates at all, that they formed a part of the disk, and as 

 such were covering pieces. The radials enclose the azygous plate 

 proper and an anal piece as in most of the Poteriocrinidse, 

 Tribachiocrinus is not such an aberrant genus, as it was supposed 

 to be. It is closely allied to Cromyocrinus and Agassizocrinus, 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. It5 



and like them has large basals, comparatively small radials, and 

 an unusually large azygous plate, followed by the anal piece and 

 proximal plate of the ventral tube. It differs, however, from 

 both genera in the number of underbasals, and the peculiarities 

 in the radial regions which have been mentioned. 



Revised Generic Diagnosis. Dorsal cup globose ; composed of 

 heavy plates. Underbasals three, comparatively large ; two of 

 them larger than the other, but not of equal size ; the smaller 

 piece placed in a vertical line with the anterior radial (PI. 6, fig. 

 5). Basals five, extremely large, very irregular in form; the 

 posterior one heptagonal and larger than any of the rest ; that to 

 the left pentagonal ; the three others hexagonal. The upper side 

 in four of the plates is angular, in the other truncate, supporting 

 the right posterolateral radial. 



Radials five ; irregular in form and size, the postero-lateral one 

 considerably smaller than the others. The two posterior radials 

 as well as the anterior one pentangular, truncate above, and 

 they support a short subquadrangular brachial ; the two antero- 

 lateral ones hexagonal, angular above, supporting on each side an 

 arm. The line of articulation between the three former radials 

 and their respective brachials is widely gaping, and the mode of 

 articulation similar to that of all later Poteriocrinidse. The 

 brachials, although short, are twice as wide at their union with 

 the radials as along their upper ends, which are truncate, moder- 

 ately concave, each supporting a single arm. The two other 

 radials, which have angular upper faces, are slightly constricted 

 along their upper ends so as to indicate an anchylosis of 

 brachials and radials. 



Nothing is known of the ventral surface except imperfect 

 impressions of small pieces. The azygous plate is unusually 

 large, subquadrangular or trapezoidal ; placed obtusely between 

 the posterior basal and the right postero-lateral radial ; its upper 

 angle, which extends almost to the top of the radials, is slightly 

 truncated and supports the ventral tube, its left upper side abuts 

 against a large subquadrangular anal plate. Column apparently 

 small and circular. 



1847. Tribrachiocrinus Clarkei (Type of the g^nus) McCoy, Ann. and Mag. Nat. 



Hist., Vol. XX, p. 228, PI. 12, Figs. 2, a.b.c.-Pictet 1857, Traite de Paleont., 



Vol. IV, p. 321. Carboniferous. Australia. 

 1884. T. corrugatus Rs^tte, Proceed. Linnean Soc. of New South Wales, Vol. IX, Pt. 



4. Carboniferous. Australia. 




176 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



b. Oraphiocrinites. 

 GRAPHIOCRINUS De Koninck, Rev. i, p. 121. 



GraphioGi'inus has a bilateral symmetry, and is in some 

 respects higher developed than the preceding genera, owing to 

 the absence of the azygous piece. It has onl}' an anal plate, and 

 this is small and placed between the radials, resting upon the 

 truncate upper side of the posterior basal. The ventral sac is 

 cylindrical, and in Graphiocrinus rudis composed of longitudinal' 

 rows of subquadrangular pieces. We have not been able to 

 examine the tube in other species, and hence are not aware 

 whether the arrangement of these plates is of generic value. The 

 species heretofore referred to Graphiocrinus have but a single 

 brachial and ten arms ; we have, however, in our collection an 

 undescribed species with only five arms. 



No additional species have been described. 



BURSACRINUS M. and W., Rev. i, p. 123. 



Syu. Synyphocrinus Trautschold, Bull., 1880. 



In a paper " Ueber Symjphocrinus,^^ Trautschold described a 

 new species from Moscow, for which he proposes the above 

 generic designation. He asserts that it differs from PoteiHocrinus 

 and allied genera in having " pentagonal, roof-like second radials, 

 and these provided along the ventral side with two thorn-like 

 processes, separated by the tentacle furrow ; " that the third 

 radials had similar processes and re-entering angles, overlying 

 and covering the roof of the preceding plate; that the upper 

 truncate side supported two bifurcating plates ; that the species 

 had no pinnules, and that the vault rested upon the thorn-like 

 extensions of the third radials. We think Trautschold misunder- 

 stood his specimen. From his own figures and descriptions it is 

 evident that the calyx, as in other Fistulata, contained a single 

 radial, and that all succeeding plates were free, and true arm plates. 

 His " second radial " is grooved for the reception of the " tentacle 

 furrow," and, as shown by its form, a regular bifurcating plate, 

 his remarkable " third radial " represents the two proximal arm 

 plates, placed aside of each other, given off from the plate below. 

 That pinnules were present in this species is shown even by the 

 figure in which their faces are plainly represented. The processes 

 at the inner side have no generic value, they are in connection 

 with the articular faces of the plates, and are found, more or less, 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 177 



in all later Poteriocrinidse. Prof. Trautschold overlooked the 

 only important distinction between liis form and Poteriocrinus. 

 His species has a single anal plate within the dorsal cup, while 

 Poteriocrinus has three. However, in this character Synypho- 

 crinus resembles Graphiocrinus, and especially the subgenus 

 Bursacrinus, which has the same general form, a similar funnel- 

 shaped underbasal cup, and also branching arms. 



It is possible that Poteriocrinus meekianus Shum. (Swallow's 

 Geol. Rep. Missouri) is a Bursacrinus, but it may be a Barycri- 

 nus. Only the dorsal cup is known. 



Additional species : 



*]881. Bursacrinus cornutus (Trautschold), Synyphocrinus cornutus, Bull. Mos- 

 cow, Ueber Synyphocrinus. Berg-Kalk. Mjatschkowa, Russia. 



(?) Subgen. PHIALOCRINUS Trautschold, Rev., i, p. 124. 



CEKIOCRINUS White (not Koenig). i 



(Emend. W. andSp.). 



1880. White, U. S. Geol. Surv. under Hayden for 1878. Paleont., Nos. 

 2-8 (Author's Ed., p. 12). 

 Syn. Euijachycrinus (in part), "W. and Sp., 1878 ; M. and W., 1873. 

 Syn. Eriosocrinus (in part), White, 1879. 



Ceriocrinus is very interesting as representing a link between 

 the unsymmetrical Eupachycrinus and the symmetrical Erisocri- 

 nus. The three are very similar, and some of the species cannot 

 be separated even specifically, unless the azygous side is exposed. 

 We were at first inclined to follow Meek and Worthen in placing 

 species with one and three anal (azygous) plates under Eupachy- 

 crinus, which has three in its typical form, and to separate those 

 only which have no azygous plates within the dorsal cup. Our 

 way of disposing of this question was contrary to the rules laid 

 down by ourselves among other groups, but we took it to be a case 

 of rapid and extravagant development, and as such possibly only 

 of specific value. A similar view, but in a somewhat different 

 direction, was taken by Dr. White, who placed in his Ceriocrinus 

 species having an " anal plate " between the radials (none below), 

 together with species in which a similar plate is supported by the 

 radials (beyond the limits of the dorsal cup), and he ranked 

 Ceriocrinus as a subgenus of Erisocrinus. 



^ Koenig' s genus has not been accepted (see De Loriol, Monogr. des 

 Crin. Foss. de la Suisse, 1877, p. 61). 




nS PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



We are not satisfied whether the piece resting upon the radials 

 (White's fig., 5 a) is equivalent to the one between the radials (his 

 fig., 5 c), it is at least possible that the former is the anal plate, 

 the latter a plate of the tube, or, as it is generally called, the third 

 anal plate. We, therefore, cannot agree AA^ith White in consider- 

 ing the two forms generically identical, and much less specifically. 

 If the difference in the two specimens was to be explained by 

 individual development, that perhaps the anal piece had been 

 resorbed in the adult, the specimens should differ in size, which 

 is not the case. Throughout the coal-measures we find both 

 forms side by side and of nearly equal size, a certain proof that 

 the modification took place in the genus, and not in the individual. 

 We must therefore either separate the two forms generically, or 

 unite both with Eupachycrinus. 



We stated under Eupachycrinus that we separate from that 

 genus all species with a single azygous plate, and these we place 

 under Geriocrinus. Contrary to White, however, we exclude 

 those species in which that plate rests upon the radials, which we 

 place under Erisocrinus. Whether EiHsocrinus and Geriocrinus 

 are full genera or only subgenera of Eupachycrinus^ or the latter 

 two of Erisocrinus^ is a question which we leave open. 



Geriocrinus occupies the same relative position to Graphio- 

 crinus as Zeacrinus to Woodocrinus, and as Eupachycrinus to 

 Scytalocrinus, their differences being more of degree than of kind. 



We refer to Geriocrinus the following species : 



*]875. C. Craigii (Worthcn), Eupachycrinus Craigii, Rev. i, p. 138. 



*1S73. C. fayettensis (Wortlien), Eupachycrinus fayettensis, Rev. i, p. 138. 

 1866. C. inflexus (Geinitz), Cyathocrinus inflexus, Carbon, and Dj-as in Nebraska, 

 p. 62, PI. i, fig. 20; White, 1876, Scaphiocrinus carbonarius (not M. and 

 W.). Powell's Rep. Geol. Uinta Mts., p. 89; AVhite 1880, Geriocrinus 

 inflexus, 12th Ann. Rep. Terr., by Hayden for 1878 (author's ed., p. 127). 

 Carboniferous. Grand and Green River. Utah and Nebraska. 



*1858. C. hemisphericus (Shum.), Scaphiocrinus (?) hemisphericus, Trans. St. 

 Louis Acad. Sci., vol. i, p. 221. Meek 1872, Final Rep. on Nebraska, p. 

 147, PI. 5, Fig. 4, and PI. 7, fig. 1 ; also Geol. Rep. 111., iii, p. 561, PI. 24, fig. 

 6. Carboniferous. This species we took (Rev. i, p. 138) to be a synonym 

 of Eupachycrinus Craigii, but, if Meek's identification is correct, it is a 

 good species. The plates, which in the latter are strongly spiniferous, are 

 in the other but little convex. 

 1880. C. planus (White), Erisocrinus planus (Type of the genus), Proc. U. S. Nat. 

 Mus., vol. ii, p. 257, figs. 6-7. White 1880, Erisocrinus (Geriocrinus) 

 planus, 12th Ann. Rep. Terr., by Hayden, for 1878, Author's copy, p. 127, 

 PI. 35, fig. 5 c (not 5 a = Erisocrinus White). Coal measures. Humbold 

 River, Ky. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 179 



c. Erisocrinites. 

 ERISOCRINUS Rev. i, p. 1:^9. 



Admitting Geriocrinus^ we place under Erisocrinus all species 

 in which no azygous plates are represented at the dorsal side, 

 but we also include those in which a plate of the ventral tube 

 rests upon the radials. In all probability was the latter piece 

 always present in this genus. The structure of the arms is the 

 same as in Encrinus and Eupacliycrinus. 



The only new species to be added in the list is : 



*18S0. Erisocrinus Whitei W. and Sp., Erisocrinus (Ceriocrinus) planus (in part). 

 White 12th Ann. Rep. Terr, by Hayden for 1878 (Author's copy, p. 127, PI. 

 35, Fig, 5a (not 5c = Ceriocrinus planus). Distinguishing the specimen Fig. 

 5c specifically, we projiose the above name for the other to avoid confusion. 



STEMMATOCRINUS Trautschold, Rev. i, p. 141. , 



In Part I, we separated Stemmatocrinus from. Erisocrinus only 

 subgenerically, from the fact that it agrees with that genus in all 

 its particulars, except that the underbasals consist of a single 

 plate instead of five in the other, which we explained by anchy- 

 losis. This explanation was doubted by Carpenter, who in the 

 Chall. Rep., p. 152, says : " the plate in question appears to me 

 much more truly represented by the central pentagonal piece on 

 which the basals rest, and it is obviously what Schultze calls 

 ' eine fiinfseitige aus der Erweiteruug des obersten Siiulen- 

 gliedes gebildete Platte.' " And again : " the analogue of the 

 development of the other calyx plates indicates that they (the 

 underbasals) are primitively five separate plates like their homo- 

 logues in the apical system of Ophiurids and starfishes ; and a 

 theory which would homologize them with a plate that first 

 appears as a simple ring seems to me to run counter all true 

 notions of morphology." We confess that we do not understand 

 Carpenter's argument, for we believe Stemmatocrinus had primi- 

 tively five plates, which were united by anchylosis leaving no 

 vestige of the sutures. Similar cases of anchylosis among basals 

 and underbasals have been observed among other Palaeocrinoidea 

 and even among Neocrinoidea. In one of the two species of the 

 recent genus Bhizocrinus, the basals are distinctly divided, in the 

 other united by anchylosis. In Platycrinus it is absolutely impos- 

 sible to discover a suture between the basals, the anchylosis 

 between the plates is complete, and only in comparatively few 




180 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



species the place of union is still indicated by a depression. Such 

 is the case also in Dolatocrinus and Stereocrinus. In Agassizo- 

 crinus an anchylosis takes place between the iinderbasals, all 

 suture lines disappear in the older specimens. In Eupachycrinus 

 ornatus and EupachycyHnus gemmiformis, which occur in the 

 same bed with Stemmatocrinus cernuus, the sutures are fre- 

 quently not visible, and the plates apparently constitute a solid 

 disk which in form and proportions resembles that of Stemmato- 

 crinus. 



STEMMATOCRINUS TRAUTSCHOLDI ' nov. sp. 



(PI. 9, figs. 7 and 8.) 



Of large size. Dorsal cup subglobose ; plates heavy. Under- 

 basals of medium size, anchylosed, forming a solid pentangular 

 plate with concave sides, the latter with a somewhat waving 

 outline.^ The plate is slightly convex, except the columnar 

 attachment which is rather deeply impressed. There are abso- 

 lutely no sutures visible either upon the dorsal aspect or upon 

 the inner floor. The centre is perforated by a minute star-shaped 

 canal, with raj^s directed radially. Basals about as long as wide, 

 pentagonal in outline, but really hexagonal, the two lower sides 

 having together the length of the four others ; their upper sides 

 convex. 



Radials once and a half to twice as long as wide ; concave 

 along their basi-radial suture, along their distal side slightly 

 excavated. The articular faces are directed upward and occupy 

 nearly the full width of the plates. The articulation with the 

 brachials is by a transverse ridge with a central canal and shallow 

 fossjfi. Brachials two, both extremel}^ short but deep. They 

 are followed by several short, cuneate pieces. The upper part of 

 the arms is not known. 



The specimens show traces of interradial plates resting against 

 the inner edges of two radials, of which the places of attachment 

 are plainly visible (PI. 9, fig. 8), and detached plates were placed 

 aside of them. 



Geological Position, etc. From the Keokuk limestone near 

 Nashville (White's Creek), Tenn. The original specimens, some 

 thirty in number, are in our collection. 



^ In honor of Prof. Tratitschold of Moscow, Russia, the author of the 

 genus, who had the kindness to send us a beautiful series of the Mjatsch- 

 kowa Crinoids. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 181 



Family XXIII. ENCRINID^ Pictet. 



J. S. Miller refers the genus Encrinus, together with Penta- 

 crinus, to his Articulata, Poteriocrinus to his Semiarticulata. 

 Zittel, and after him De Loriol, to the Articulata of Miiller ; 

 while they refer the closely allied Poteriocrinus to Miiller's Tes- 

 sellata. The mode of articulation is identical in Encrinus and 

 the later Poteriocrinidae, as pointed out in our general remarks 

 on the Fistulata, and our notes on the Poteriocrinidse. A sepa- 

 ration, therefore, in the sense of either Miller or Miiller, cannot 

 be eai-ried out practically. A ventral covering was never found 

 to be preserved in Encrinus, and as the same thing happens to 

 be a rule among all fossil Neocrinoidea, it was postulated that 

 this genus had an open perisome, and as such was a Neocrinoid. 

 However, the ventral surface is also unknown among the Poterio- 

 crinida?, which are universally regarded as Palseocrinoids. Neither 

 is the absence of azygous plates in the dorsal cup exclusively 

 found among Neocrinoidea we need only allude to Codiacrinus, 

 Ceriocrinus and Erisocrinus nor the presence of two brachials 

 (three radials), which was pointed out by Carpenter a good dis- 

 tinctive character. The latter is a very common occurrence among 

 tlie Poteriocrinidie, among which we failed even to make it a 

 generic distinction. We are willing to admit that Encrinus con- 

 stitutes a transition form toward the Neocrinoidea, it is even 

 possible that in the adult the interradials became partly or wholly 

 resorbed, but it is otherwise so closely connected with the Poterio- 

 crinidffi that we must regard it a Palaeocrinoid or place also the 

 Poteriocrinidge among the Neocrinoidea. 



Pictet, and after him Dujardin and Hupe, placed Encrinus 

 under the Pycnocrinidees, which they subdivided into Encriniens, 

 Apiocriniens and Pentaci'iniens. This division was accepted by 

 De Loriol in his work on the Swiss Crinoids, but in his later 

 monograph on the Crinoids of France he followed Zittel, who 

 made it the type of a distinct family of the Neocrinoidea. All 

 writers preceding us, with the exception of Zittel, described En- 

 crinus with 3X5 radials, although the two upper plates are 

 laterally free, and morphologically and functionally identical 

 with the brachials of the Poteriocrinidae. 



We agree with De Loriol and Zittel that Yon Meyer's genus 

 Chelocrinus, which is based on species having a second bifurca- 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



tion in the arms, cannot be sustained. Ilis Dadocrinus, however, 

 seems to be a good generic form, and will be treated by us as 

 such. We separate from the Encrinida3 Picard's Encrinus Bey- 

 richi, which we refer to the Belemnocrinidae. Von Meyer's genus 

 Calathocrinus, which some writers assert to be identical with. 

 Encrinus, is known only from a single imperfect specimen. 



ENCRINUS (Lamarck), J. S. Miller. 



1816. Lamarck, Descr. des Aiiimaux sans vertebres (Ed. i), vol. ii, p. 435. 

 1821. Miller, A Natural History of the Crinoidea, p. 37. 

 1823. Schlotheim, Nachtr. z. Petrefactenkuude, p. 335. 

 1826-33. Goldfuss, Petrefacta. Germ., vol. i, p. 177. 

 1857. Pictet, Traite de Paleont. (Ed. ii), vol. iv, p. 337. 

 1857. Beyrich (in part), Ueber die Criuoid. d. Muschelkalk (Berl. Acad, d. 

 Wissenschaften). 



1876. Quenstedt, Petrefactenk. Deutschlands, vol. iv, p. 455. 



1877. De Loriol, Monogr. Grin. Foss. de la Suisse, p. 7. 

 1879. Zittel, Haudb. d. Palaeontologie, i, p. 383. 



1882. De Loriol, Paleont. Francaise (Ser. I), Crinoidea, p. 6. 



Syn. Entroclms and Trocldtes Agricola ; CTielocrinus and perhaps 

 Calathocrinus v. Meyer, (?) Tetracrinm Gotullo, Flabellocrinui 

 Klippstein, and (?) Gassianocrinus Laube. 



Generic Diagnosis. Dorsal cup regularly pentamerous ; short, 

 saucer-shaped ; composed of 5 underbasals, 5 basals and 5 radials, 

 all equal in size and form ; there being no azygous plates. 



Underbasals minute, rhomboidal, forming together a five-rayed 

 star ; entirely covered by the top stem joint. Basals small, hexa- 

 gonal, for the greater part hidden by the column. They rest with 

 their lower sides between two underbasals, are laterally united, 

 support with their sloping upper sides the radials, and form 

 jointly a pentagon with almost straight sides. The radials are 

 large, subquadrangular ; their distal sides once and a half as wide 

 as their lower or proximal sides ; they are thick, heavy, the faces 

 toward the basi-radial suture somewhat hollowed out, showing 

 shallow fossae, while their lateral faces indicate a syzygial union. 



Brachials two, the first quadrangular, the other pentangular ; 

 they are heavy plates with straight lateral faces by which they 

 abut against the apposed faces of adjoining plates. The upper 

 plate is axillary, supporting two arms, which either remain simple, 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 183 



or of which one or both from the second plate branch again. 

 Arms massive, composed of short transverse plates, which in 

 their upward arrangement change from quadi'angular pieces with 

 strictly parallel sides to cuneiform and gradually interlocking 

 plates ; some of them, however, possess a fully developed biserial 

 arm structure. The union between radials and first brachials, 

 and also between the axillaries and pi'oximal arm plates is by 

 articulation, the apposed faces having highly developed facets 

 with transverse ridges, and a central canal and fossoe. The 

 two brachials are united by syzygy, as also the two proximal arm 

 joints. 



In Encrinus^ the inner floor of the dorsal cup is grooved by 

 five primar}^ canals, which, as they pass outward, bifurcate within 

 the basals, and the ten secondary canals thus formed proceed to 

 the radials, and thence after dividing again to the arms. These 

 grooves which are by no means restricted to Encrinus or to the 

 Neocrinoidea, are, according to P. H. Carpenter (his paper on the 

 Oral and Apical "system of Echinoderms, Quart. Journ. Microsc. 

 Sci. London, 1880, p, 362), passages for the fibrillar cords going 

 out from the interradial angles of the chambered organ. 



Nothing is known of the ventral surface, except in a young 

 specimen in which we thought to observe a few plates of a ventral 

 tube. The interradial plates, owing to the large size of the artic- 

 ular facets, must have been small at any time, and possibly were 

 absorbed in the adult. Column composed of circular joints with- 

 out cirrhi. 



Geological Position^ etc. Muschelkalk, Trias. Germany and 

 Switzerland. 



We recognize the following species : 



1847. Encrinus aculeatus v. Meyer, Lconh. Bronn's Jahrb., p. 576 ; also Palaeontogr. 

 i, 1851, p. 2G2, PI 32, fig. 1 ; also Beyrich 1857, Grin, des Muschelk., p. 38, 

 PI. 1, figs. 16 a, b. Muschelkalk, Trias. Upper Silurian, Germ. 



1850. E, Brahlii Owerweg, Zeitschr. d. deutsch. geol. Gesellschaft, vol. ii, p. 6; also 

 Beyrich, 1857, Grin, des Muschelk., p. 39, PI. 2. Muschelkalk, Trias. 

 Rildersdorf, Germ. 



1856. E. Carnalli Beyrich (Chelocrinus Carnalli), Zeitsch. d. deutsch. geol. Gesellsch, 

 p. 10; also Leonh, Bronn's Jahrb. (1856), p. 28. Muschelkalk, Trias. 

 RUdersdorf, Germ. 



1877. E. GrepMni De Loriol, Grinoides Foss. de la Suisse, p. 12. Muschelkalk. 

 Meyenbiihl, near Basle, Switzerl. 




184 PROCEEDINQS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



1816. E. liliiformis Lamarck, Descr. des Aniniaux sans vertebres, 1 edit., vol. ii, p. 

 4.'?o, Hchlotheim 1820, Petrefactenk., p. .3.35. Agassiz, 1835, Prodr. Mem. 

 ?oc. Sci. nat. de Neuchatel, vol. i, p, 195. Dujardin (in Lamarck), 1840, 

 Descr. des Animaux sans vertebres, 2me edit., vol. ii, p. 651. Desor, 1845, 

 Notice sur les Crinoides Suisses, p. 3; Bull. Soc. Sci. nat. de Neuchatel, vol. 

 i, p. 211. Pictet, 1857, Trait6 de Paleont., 2me edit., vol. iv, p. 337, P!. 102, 

 fig. 4. Bej'rich, 1857, Ueber die Crin. des Muschelkalkes, p. 1, PI, 1, fig. 1- 

 12. Strombeck, 1856, Ueber Missbildimgen von E. liliiformis, Palajonto- 

 graphica, vol. iv, p. 168, PI. 31. Dujardin et Hupe, 1862, Suites a BuflFon 

 Echinoderm.*, p. 164. Coster, 1865; Syn. des Echin. des Alpes Suisses, p. 

 10; Moesch, 1867, der Aargauer Jura, pp. 26, 27-30 (Beitriige z. (icol. Karte 

 der Schweiz, 4te Liefer.); Greppin, 1870, Descr. geol. du .Jura bernois, p. 13. 

 Moesch, 1874, der slidliche Aargauer Jura, p. 4, Anbang, p. 6. Quenstedt, 

 1876, Petrefactenk. Deutschl., vol. iv, p. 455, PI. 106, figs. 14.3-184. Bronn, 

 Klassen des Thierreichs ( Actinozoa), vol. ii, PI. 29, fig. 3. De Loriol, Crinoid. 

 Foss. de la Suisse, 1877, p. 9. Zittel, Handb. d. Palreont., i, p. 383. 

 Muschelkalk Trias. Grermany and Switzerland. 



Si/u. Lily encrinite, 1808, Lamarck, Organ. Remains, vol. ii, p. 14, figs. 1-3. 



Syii. Encrinites moniliformis Miller, 1821, A Nat. Hist, of the Crinoidea, p. 

 37, PI. 1, 2, 3 ; also Goldfuss, 1826-33, Petrefacta Germ., vol. i, p. 177, PI. 54. 



Si/n. Pentacrinus entroclia Blainville, 1834, Manual d'Actinologie, p. 257, PI. 

 28, fig. 2, and ibid., p. 657. 



iS"?/)!. Encrinus entrocha D'Orbigny, 1839, Monogr. des Crinoid., PI. 18; also 

 D'Orbigny, 1850, Prodrome, vol. i, p. 178. 

 1835. Encrinites Schlotheimi Quenstedt, Wiegm. Arch., ii, p. 227, vol. 4, fig. 1 ; also 

 1852, p. 614; also Chelocrinus Schlotheimi H. v. Meyer, 1837, in Leonh. 

 Bronn's Jahrb., p. 316, and Mus. Senkenb., ii, 1837, p. 262, vol. 16, fig. 9 ; 

 also Bronn, Lethaja (Edit. 3), Bd. iii, 1851, p. 48, vol. 13, fig. 3. E. Bey rich. 

 Ueber die Crinoid. des Muschelk., 1857, p. 34, vol. i, fig. 13. Muschelkalk, 

 near Giittingen, Germany. 



Sytt. Chelocrinus pentactinus H. v. Meyer, 1837, Leonh. Bronn's Jahrb., p. 

 316; also 1837, Mus. Senkenb., ii, p. 262, vol. 16, fig. 8; also L. v. Buch, 

 1848, in Leonh. Bronn's Jahrb., p. 690. 



Syn. Encrinus liliiformis, Ueber Missbildungen, Strombeck, 1849, Zeitschr. 

 d. deutsch. geol. Gesellsch., i, p. 163; 1855, Paltpontogr., iv, p. 177. 



Syn. Encrinus pentactinus, Bronn, 1837, Leonh. Bronn's Jahrb , p. 30, vol. 2, 

 1851; also Lethaea Geogn. (Ed. 3), Bd. iii, p. 47, PL 13, fig. 1. Also 

 Geinitz, 1838, Leonh. Bronn's Jahrb., p. 530. 



DADOCRINUS v. Meyer. 

 1847. V. Meyer, Leonh, Bronn's Jahrb,, p. 575. 

 ISol. V. Meyer, Palaeontographica, i, p. 266. 



Syn. Encrinus (in part), L. v, Buch, Bericht Berl. Acad., 1845, p. 

 27 ; also Beyrich, Ueber Criuoideen des Muschelk., p. 42 ; also De 

 Loriol, 1877, Crin. Foss. de la Suisse, p. 8 ; also Zittel, Handb. d. 

 Palseont., i, p. 383. 



This genus has not been accepted by Beyricli, Zittel, nor De 

 Loriol. It was proposed by H. v. Meyer for a species previously 

 described by L. v. Buchi under the name of Encrinus gracilis. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIITLADELPinA. 185 



The latter has a turbinate calyx, underbasals (observed by Bey- 

 rich not by H. v, Meyer), an apparently round stem; ten arms 

 which are not very closely folded, composed of cuneiform flat 

 joints, and pinnules which are alternately arranged. The totally 

 different form of the dorsal cup seems to us sufficient to warrant 

 the generic separation. L. v. Buch's t3"pical specimen came from 

 Recaoro, Italy, and was supposed by Beyrich to be identical with 

 certain fragments which had been discovered in the Trias of 

 Upper Silesia, too imperfect, however, for critical comparison. 

 From this locality a more perfect specimen was found lately by 

 Mr. n. Kunisch, who figured and described it in the Zeit- 

 schrift d. deutsch. geol. Gesellsch. Jahrg., 1883, under the title 

 " Ueber den ausgewachsenen Zustand von Encrinus gracilis 

 Buch." We cannot altogether agree with Mr. Kunisch in his 

 views. The Silesian species is, in our opinion, essentially differ- 

 ent from the Italian one. The column is pentagonal in place of 

 circular; the arms rounded, angular at the outer face, and the 

 pinnules are given off alternately from every second joint, every 

 other one being united by syzygy ; contrary to the typical species, 

 which has flat arms, cuneiform joints, and of which every joint is 

 pinnule-bearing. The distinctions are so obvious that a specific 

 separation is necessary, and we propose for the Silurian species 

 the name Dadocrinus Kunischi. To explain the diversity in the 

 arm-structui-e by individual growth is at variance with the obser- 

 vations made upon recent as well as fossil Crinoids. We agree 

 that the arms undergo important modifications in their growth, 

 but we do not find cuneate arm joints turning into quadrangular 

 ones, though frequently the opposite is the case ; nor that single 

 joints are undergoing segmentations and are uniting again by 

 syzygy. The angles of the column in Dadocrinus Kunischi are 

 directed interradially, thus proving theoretically the base to be 

 dicyclic, which could not be ascertained from the specimen. 

 We propose the following : 



Bevised Generic Diagnosis. Form of dorsal cup obconical. 

 Underbasals small, covered by the column ; basals forming an 

 elongate hexagonal cup. Radials comparatively smaller than in 

 Encrinus, but yet twice as large as the basals. Brachials in 

 number, form and articulation as in Encrinus. Arms long, uni- 

 serial, composed of single or compound joints, the latter united 



13 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



by syzygy ; pinnules long, and placed far apart. Column round 



or pentangular, with or without cirrhi. 



1845. Dadocrinus gracilis (L. v. Buuh), v. Meyer, Encrinus gracilis, Bericht d. 

 Ber). Acad., p. 27. Dadocriuus gracilis H. v. Meyer (Type of the genus), 

 1847, Leonh. Bronn's Jahrb., p. 675; also Palaeontogr., i, p. 266, PI. 31, fig. 

 2 and PI. 32, figs. 4, 5, 6 ; PI. 31, figs. 9, 13; PI. 32, fig. 7. Encrinus gra- 

 cilis Beyrich, Ueber die Crin. d. Muschelk., p. 42, PI. 1, fig. 15. Muschel- 

 kalk Trias. Recaoro, Italy. 

 1884. D. Kunischi W. and Sp. Described and figured by Mr. Kuniseh as Encrinus 

 gracilis, Zeitschr. d. Deutsch. geol. Gesellsoh., Jahrg., 1883, p. 195, with 

 plate. Muschelkalk. Upper Silesia. 



Family XXIV. A.STYLOCRINIDJE Roemer. 

 The Asty locrinidae embrace only the genus Agassizocrinus, vfh\ch. 

 Pictet referred to the Comatulidse, Zittel to the Poteriocrinidje. 

 Roemer included in this family Marsupites. We place here pro- 

 visionally the genus Udriocrinus, which, however, in all proba- 

 bility, forms a family by itself, being sessile in early life, and 

 having no underbasals. 



AGASSIZOCRINUS Troost. 

 (PI. 5, fig. 17.) 



1850. Troost, Journ. Am. Ass. Adv. Sci. Camb. Meeting, p. 69. 



1851. Owen and Shum., Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pbila. (n. ser.), vol. ii. 

 1853. Shumard, Marcy's Rep. Red River Exped., of Louisiana, p. 173. 



1852. Owen and Shuin., Geol. Rep. la., Wise, and Minn., p. 597, 

 1858. Hall, Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i, Pt. ii, p. 684. 



1873. Worthen, Geol. Rep. Illinois, vol. v, p. 556. 



1874. Meek, Amer. Journ. Sci. (Ser. 3;, vol. vii, No. 41, p. 484. 

 1879. Zittel, Handb. d. PaL-eontologie, i, p. 861. 



Syn. Astylocrinus, 1854, F. Roemer, Letb. Geogn. (Ausg. 8), p. 229; 

 also Dujardinand Hupe, 1862, Hist, natur des Zoopb. Ecbin., p. 159. 



The name Agassizocrinus appears in Troost's List of the Cri- 

 noids of Tennessee, but the genus was not defined until 18.53, 

 when Shumard, in Marcy's Report on the Red River Expedition, 

 published Troost's MS. of Agassizocrinus dactylifor-mis, which he 

 accompanied with a short generic description of his own. Asty- 

 locrinus wa,s proposed by Roemer as late as 1855, when he described 

 under the name Astylocrinus laevis, a nearly perfect specimen from 

 a plaster cast, sent to him by Shumard's brother with Troost's 

 name Agassizocrinus dactyliformis attached. There cannot be 

 the least doubt as to the priority of Agassizocrinus, but it is 

 probable that Roemer's specimen, which was Troost's type, is 

 specifically distinct from the one figured by Shumard under 

 Troost's name, and hence we recognize Roemer's specific name. 



t 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 18T 



Detached plates of Agassizocrinus are found in great abundance 

 throughout the Kaskaskia group, but perfect calices are extremely 

 rare. The cause of this is perhaps explained by the mode in 

 which the different plates are'united with one another. Only the 

 underbasals seem to have been united by common suture, and 

 these, as a rule, are the onlj^ plates which are not found discon- 

 nected in the fossil. The apposed faces of the succeeding plates 

 are vei'tically and horizontally provided with rather conspicuous 

 ramifying furrows, which enter the surface of the plates (PL 5, 

 fig. 17). The ramifications vary somewhat, even among corres- 

 ponding plates, but those of apposed faces correspond with each 

 other, and together form small tunnels, which branch once or 

 twice, grrowino- narrower at their outer ends. Between basals and 

 underbasals there are generally three of these furrows to each 

 plate ; but they unite to one on entering the underbasal cavity, 

 where they seem to communicate with certain pits or openings, 

 which have been overlooked by previous writers. 



The underbasals form an almost solid disk, with a shallow, cup- 

 shaped inner cavity. The latter contains six deep pits or cham- 

 bers, closed at the bottom, a central one surrounded by five others. 

 These pits either contained the lower part of the chambered 

 organ, or they indicate where the vessels extended down from 

 the chambers into the larval stem. It is possible that the axial 

 canals which descend from the body cavity were lodged in these 

 chambers, together with the vessels of the latter, and this might 

 explain the apparent communication of the pits with the radiat- 

 ing furrows above mentioned. But it may be possible, also, that 

 the furrows lodged groups of ligamentous fibres, by which the 

 union of the plates was rendered firmer and closer than it would 

 be when only two smooth surfaces were apposed. The plates, 

 however, as a general rule, are found to be disconnected, and the 

 radials at their lateral faces possess fossae, thus proving there 

 existed a certain degree of mobility between the calyx plates 

 generally. Similar ramifying furrows were discovered by us in 

 the genus BaryctHnus between the apposed articular facets of 

 radials and brachials, plates which evidently were not united by 

 a close suture. 



Agassizocrinus in the earlier stages was attached by a column, 

 but led a free life later on, when the scar to which the stem had 

 been attached was gradually obliterated, so as to leave no traces 

 behind. The secretion of calcareous matter extended over the 




188 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



greater part of tlie underbasal disk, whicli became more elongate, 

 until at last the suture lines between the plates disappeared en- 

 tirely, although in the j'oung Crinoid these are well marked. 

 Owing to the very considerable clwinges of form, which occur in 

 the growing animal, it is extremely' difficult to identifj' the species 

 of this genus, and we fear that several of those described repre- 

 sent merely different stages of the same species. 



Agassizocrinus globosus and A. papillatus Worthen have been 

 referred by us to Cromyocrinus ; his A. hemispJiericus, in wliicli 

 the underbasals do not extend beyond the column, is either 

 Eupachycrinus or Scytalocrinus, probabl3^ the latter. 



Generic Diagnosis. Form of calyx elongate, composed of mas- 

 sive plates, and containing a comparatively small visceral cavity. 



TJnderbasals extremely large ; obconical ; almost solid ; witli a 

 very small inner cavity. Young specimens have an articuLir scar 

 for the attachment of a column, pierced by an axial canal ; this, 

 however, becomes obliterated soon after the Crinoid enters free 

 life. The inner cavity lodges the chambered organ, and is pro- 

 vided with six deep pits, a central one surrounded by five others, 

 which either constitute the chambers of this organ or their lower 

 extensions. 



Basals large, three of them hexagonal, two heptagonal, but they 

 appear to be pentagonal and hexagonal, owing to the convex form 

 of the two lower sides. The heptagonal plates enclose, and partly 

 support, the azygous pieces, consisting of the azygous plate proper, 

 which has a sloping position and is generally large, a smaller anal 

 plate, and the first plate of the ventral tube. The size and form 

 of the tube is not known, but it was evidently small, perhaps 

 similar to that of Gromyocrinus, with which Agassizocrinus agrees 

 in the arrangement of its azygous plates. 



Radials unusually small ; wider than high ; the upper face trun- 

 cate ; they are all pentagonal, four of them of nearly equal size, 

 the fifth one considerably smaller and of irregular form. The 

 articular facets are on a level with the outer edges of the plates, 

 they are somewhat extended inward, and pierced by a transverse 

 axial canal. The articulation between calyx and arms is regu- 

 larly bifacial, resembling that between the oval stem-joints of 

 Plalycrinus. The brachials are single, axillary, and abut later- 

 ally against each other. The arms are long, rather stout, rounded, 

 and composed of short, cuneate pieces. Pinnules strong. 



The mode of union between the plates of the calyx is variable. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 189 



The underbasals -were united by a common suture, the lines of 

 which in the adult Crinoid are completely obliterated. The basals 

 possess, among each other, and where they meet the underbasals 

 and radials, ramifying furrows along their faces, which, together 

 with similar furrows on apposed faces, form tunneled passages, 

 probably containing ligament ; the lateral faces of the radials, 

 however, are excavated for fossae. 



Geological Position, etc. Restricted, so far as known, to the 

 Kaskaskia group of America. 



The following species have been described : 



1873. Agassizocrinus carbonarius "Worthen, Geol. Kep, III., v, p. 566, PL 24, fig. 4, 

 Coal measures. Shelby Co., III. 



1873. A. cliesterensis Worthen, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 558, PI, 21, fig. 9. Kaskaskia 

 gr. Chester, 111. 



1851. A. conicus Owen and Shum., Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. (n. ser.), vol. ii, p. 

 93, PI. xi, fig. 6. Geol. Rep. Iowa, Wise, and Wmn., p. 697, PI. 5 b, fig. 6. 

 Meek and Worthen, 1873, Geol. Rep. Illinois, PI. 21, fig. 8. Kaskaskia 

 limest. Chester, Illinois. 



1858. A. constrictus Hall, Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i, p. 687, PI. 25, fig. 10. Kaskaskia 

 gr. Chester, Illinois. 



1850. A, dactyliformis Troost, Type of the genus. List Crin. Tenn. Cainbr. Meet., 

 p. 6U; Shum. 1853, Marcy's Rep. Red River, p. 173. Hall 1858, Geol. Rep. 

 Iowa, vol. i, p. 685, with diagram. Kaskaskia gr. Chester, III., and Crit- 

 tenden Co., Ky. 



1S58. A gibbosus Hall, Geol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i, p. 686, PL 25, fig. 6. Worthen 1873, 

 Geol. Rep. 111., v, PL 21, fig. 11. Kaskaskia gr. Chester, IlL 

 A. gracilis Troost is a catalogue name. 

 *1855. A. laevis (Roemer), A.stylocrinus laevis (Second type of the genus), Leth. 



Geogn. (Ausg. 3), p. 229, PL 4, fig. 13. Kaskaskia gr. 

 *1852. A. occidentalis Owen and Shum. (Poteriocrinus oocidentalis), Journ. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. (n. ser), vol. ii, p. 92, PL xi, tig. 6; also Geol. Surv. of 

 Iowa, Wise, and Minnes., p. 596, PL v 6, fig. 4. (Probably a young speci- 

 men of A, gibbosus Hall). Kaskaskia gr. Chester, Illinois. 

 A. pantagonus Worthen, Geol. Rep. III., v, p. 556, PL 21, fig. 10. Kaskaskia 

 gr. Chester, Illinois. 



1862. A. tumidus Owen and Shum., Journ. Acnd. Nat. Sci. Phila., vol. ii, p. 90, PL 

 xi, fig. 3 ; also 1852, Geol. Surv. of luwa. Wise, and Mianes., p. 595, PL v b, 

 fig. 3. Kaskaskia gr. Chester, Illinois. 



(?) EDRIOCRINTJS Hall. 



1859. Hall, Pal. Rep. N. York, vol. ill, pp. 199 and 143. 



1832. Hall, loth Kep. N. York. St C.ib. Nat. Hist., p. 115. 



183S. Meek au I Worthen, Gaol. Rip. Illluois, vol. ill, p. 119. 



1879. Zittel, Handb. d. Palaeontologie, i, p. 350. 



1883. P. H. Carpenter, Ann and Ma^^ Nat. Hist. (May, 1883), p. 333. 



Edriocrinas led a life similar to that of Agassizocrinus, being 

 attached in its larval state, and free-floating in the adult. It 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



differs from that genus, however, in having no underbasals and no 

 stem, being simply attached by the basals. In its sessile state it 

 resembles the recent genus Holopus, with which it also agrees in 

 having an undivided base. 



Generic Diagnosis, etc. Sessile in its larval state ; free-floating 

 in the adult, being attached by tlie lower end of the basals. 



Basals unusually large, elongate, closely anchylosed so as to 

 show no suture lines at the outer face; internally, however, there 

 are indications that the base might have been bisected. In the 

 young animal the form of the base is irregular and linear, in the 

 adult subglobose or deeply bowl-shaped, and the scar by which 

 the animal was attached, becomes totally obliterated by heavy 

 deposits of calcareous matter. Owing to this deposit the outer 

 form of the base differs considerably from the form of the inner 

 cavity, which grows gradually narrower toward the bottom, and 

 frequentl}^ ends in a sharp point. The walls are massive at their 

 lower parts, thin at the upper edge, which shows six excavated 

 faces for the attachment of five radials and an anal plate. 



Radials comparatively small, quadrangular, articular facet but 

 slightly excavated, occupying the full width of the plates ; pro- 

 vided with a transverse articular ridge. The anal plate is in line 

 with, and has the length of the radials, but is narrower ; it sup- 

 ports a small plate, but beyond that nothing is known of the anal 

 apparatus. The structure of the ventral surface has not been 

 observed. 



The arms are broad at the base, composed of extremely' short 

 transverse pieces, of which ten or more occur between the first 

 bifurcation. Nothing is known of pinnules, nor of the condition 

 of the ventral furrow. 



Geological Position, etc. Edriocrinus occurs in the Helder- 

 berg group of America, in which portions of the basal cup are 

 rather abundant. 



1859. Edriocrinus pocilliformis Hall, Pal. Rep. N. York, iii, p. 121, PI. 5, figs. 8-12 ; 

 also 1868, Geol. Rep. Illinois, iii, p. 370, PI. 7, figs. 5 a, 6. Lower Helder- 

 berg gr. Albany, New York and Perry Co., Mo. 



1862. E. pyriformis Hall, 15tli Rep. N. Y. St. Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 116, PI. 1, figs. 23 

 and 24. Upper Helderberg gr. Utica, New York. 



1859. E. saoculus Hall, type of the genus. Pal. Rep. N. York, vol. iii, p. 143, PI. 

 87, figs. 1-22. Oriskany sand.st. Cumberland, Maryland. 



I 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



Family XXV. CATILLOCRINID^ W. and Sp. 



The group of Crinoids for which we propose the name Catillo- 

 crinidfe consists only of the genera Catillocrinus and 3Iycocrinus, 

 which have been distinctly separated by all previous writers. 

 Catillocrinus, which was described by Meek and Worthen as 

 closely allied to Symbathocrinus, was referred by Zittel and De 

 Loriol to the Pisocrinidae, which we regard as a mere subdivision 

 of the S3^mbathocrinid8e. The form, when we include the arms, 

 is similarly cylindrical, the arms rest likewise directly upon the 

 first radials, and are composed of a single series of plates. Piso- 

 crinus even has irregular radials, which is so characteristic of 

 this family, but beyond that the two groups are quite distinct. 

 Mycocrinus, according to Schultze, forms a family by itself. He 

 took it to be a Crinoid without arms, which, in place of arms, he 

 thought had been provided along the ventral surface with numer- 

 ous ambulacral grooves. Zittel, and also De Loriol, have placed 

 Mycocrinus among the genera which were said to be imperfectly 

 known. 



In the Catillocrinidse, the calyx is composed of only two series 

 of plates, and these are most remarkable for their extremely irreg- 

 ular form and distribution. The radials are massive, especially 

 at the upper margins, where they are transversely truncated on 

 the same plane all round. The radial plates differ in form and 

 size. Those of the two antero-lateral raj^s, as a rule, are much 

 larger than the three others, but, while at their upper margin 

 they are from three to six times as wide as the others, all are at 

 the basi-radial suture about equal in width. The anterior, and 

 both postero-lateral rays, rarely possess more than one arm each, 

 but in the two antero-lateral ones the arms are always numerous. 

 Every arm articulates directly upon the truncate upper margin 

 of the radial without the aid of axillary pieces, and remains 

 simple from the base up. The arms are in contact all around the 

 calyx, and are composed of a single series of very similar pieces. 

 They connect with the inner cavity by a peculiar groove, which 

 follows the truncate upper face of the radials. This groove con- 

 tains the ambulacral canal and food passage, and there is under- 

 neath, separated by a solid partition, another groove, which near 

 the inner margin penetrates the plate, and takes a distinctly down- 

 ward course toward the inner cavity, which throughout this family 

 is exceedingly small. 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



The ventral surface has not been observed, but there is suf- 

 ficient evidence to prove that it was similar to that of the other 

 Fistulata. 



Catillocrinus has its closest affinities with Galceocrinus. The 

 radials of the three anterior rays agree in form and distribution 

 so closel3'^ with the radials of Galceocrinus, that we thoiight at 

 first that it also possessed but three ra3S, and that the two irreg- 

 ular plates toward the posterior side were anals and not radials. 

 This interpretation had to be given up when we found both these 

 plates to be arm-bearing. In Galceocrinus the postero-lateral 

 rays are entirely absent or transformed into anal plates ; while in 

 Gatillocrinus those rays are represented in a rudimentary form. 



The Catillocrinidae are meagre in forms and belong to the rarest 

 Crinoids. The^^ are restricted, so far as known, to the Devonian 

 of Europe and to the Subcarbouiferous of America. 



CATILLOCRINUS Troost. 

 (PI. 5, figs. 15, 15oandl6.) 



1850. Troost, List. Crin. Term. Proc. Amer, Assoc. Ad. Sci., p. 60. 



1830. Sliumard, Trans. Acad. Sci. St. Louis, vol. ii, p. 358. 



1868. Meek aud Wortlien, Geol. Rep. 111., vol. iii, p. 4G5. 



1873. Meek aud Wortheu, Ibid., vol. v, p. 504. 



1879. Zittel, Handb d. Palseontologie, vol. i, p. 348. 



1883. De Loriol, Paleontologie FraiiQaise, Crinoids, vol. xi, p. 46. 



Syn. Nematocrinua Meek and Worthen, 1866, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., p. 251. 



Troost published the name Gatillocrinus in his List of the 

 Crinoids of Tennessee, without generic diagnosis. The first de- 

 scription was given in 1866, by Shumard,.in a foot-note to his 

 Catalogue of the Palaeozoic Fossils of North America, from 

 specimens of Gatillocrinus Tennesseae. He described the calj^x 

 as composed of three series of plates : the "basals " which were 

 said to be covered by the column, and the " primary " and 

 "secondary radials." 



Through the kindness of the late Dr. James Knapp of Louisville 

 we have had an opportunity to examine several well preserved 

 calices of the above species, and can state positively that it has but 

 two series of plates. It seems tbat Shumard took the proximal 

 joint of the column, which is generally attached, for basal plates, 

 and the edges of the basal disk proper for " primary," the true 

 radials for " secondary" radials. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



Of Gatillocrinus Wachsmuthi no descriptions were given of the 

 plates in the calyx, but the arm structure of the genus was here 

 for the first time described. Meek and Worthen, who had not 

 seen Shumard's description of Gatillocrinus, and being unac- 

 quainted with the arrangement of plates, referred their species at 

 first to Symbathocrinus, not, however, to the typical form, but to a 

 new subgenus, for which they proposed the name Nematocrinus. 

 On a republication of the species, in vol. iii, of the Geological 

 Report of Illinois, the above name was abandoned, and the species 

 placed under Catillocrinus. 



In Catillocrinus Bradleyi, Meek and Worthen undertook to 

 describe also the plates of the calyx, but without appljang to 

 them their proper terms. They simply designated them as plates 

 of a first and of a second series, except a few plates in the second 

 series which they introduced as " anals (?)." Of the five plates in 

 this series, three are easily recognized as radials, but also the two 

 others, although much smaller and very irregular in form, are 

 radials, as both are arm bearing. 



The one toward the right supports at one end an arm, at the 

 other an elongate naiTow anal plate, which abuts against the sides 

 of the proximal arm joints, and has nearly their form, being only 

 somewhat larger. Bigsby (Thesaurus Devonico-Carboniferus, p. 

 224) places Catillocrinus as a sj'nonym of Calceocrinus. 



We propose the following : 



Revised Generic Diagnosis. General form, when the arms are 

 folded, elongate-cylindrical. Calyx in form of a shalluw basin or 

 cup, concave at the bottom, uniformly truncate at the upper 

 margin. It is composed of two series of plates : the upper one 

 supporting the arms, which are very numerous. Test exceedingly 

 thin along the basals, thickening rapidly upwards. 



The basal disk is apparently undivided ; the greater part hidden 

 by the column. It is irregularly pentagonal, three of its sides 

 being nearly equal, the other two, which are adjoining, equal to 

 one-half the larger ones. The side opposite the two smaller sides 

 extends considerably bej'ond the column, while at the other side 

 the basal disk is either altogether invisible, or reduced to a very 

 narrow band. This want of regularity has been observed in all 

 specimens, and seems to be characteristic of the genus. 



Radials five, verj' irregular in form, those of the antero-lateral 

 rays much larger than the rest. The two larger plates, whose 




194 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



upper margins constitute fully three-fourths of the periphery at 

 the top of the radials, occupy together less than one-half of the 

 circumference of the basal cup. This disproportion is caused b}'- 

 the peculiar form of the other radials, which, notwithstanding the 

 great spreading of the calyx, diminish in width upwards. The 

 anterior radial is much smaller, heart-shaped, with strongl}- con- 

 vex lateral edges, which converge almost to a point at the top of 

 the cal^'x. The basi-radial suture is somewhat concave, and fully 

 as wide as that of the larger plates. The two postero-lateral 

 radials together are very little larger than the anterior one ; that 

 toward the right is smaller, very narrow, wider at the bottom 

 than at the top, and triangular when the sides are straight ; but 

 when these are curved, which is moi^e frequently the case, it is 

 somewhat lunate. The other radial is quadrangular, fully twice 

 as high as wide, and of equal width throughout. 



The articular surface of the radials is provided with conspic- 

 uous grooves and intervening ridges, the former with a depres- 

 sion near the outer margin of the plate. The grooves along the 

 surface take a tortuous or undulating course, and near their inner 

 end turn rather abruptly toward the anterior radial. The latter 

 plate has generally but one groove, which is deeper than any of 

 the others and perfectly straight, but when it has two grooves, as 

 is exceptionally the case in Catillocrinus Tennessese^ these unite 

 before entering the inner cavity. The two larger radials contain 

 numerous grooves the number varying with the species that 

 toward the right, as a rule, has more than the one on the left. The 

 former radial has been observed to have in G. Tennesseae 27 to 31 

 grooves, in C Wachsmuthi 16 to 20; the plate toward the right 

 in the former species has from 21 to 23, the opposite one 15 

 grooves. The two small irregular radials have, so far as observed, 

 only one groove each. 



In perfect specimens, the grooves are lined by two rows of 

 short, transverse pieces, which partly cover the groove, but leave 

 underneath a good-sized passage. The plates rest upon the ridges, 

 whei'e they abut against their fellows from adjoining grooves. 

 With the exception of the ridges and grooves, the truncated 

 upper side of the radials forms a uniform plane, interrupted only 

 by a small elevation along the left side of the quadrangular radial. 

 This elevation is occupied by a small, elongate anal plate, which 

 abuts against the two proximal joints of adjoining arms. The 



1 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



plate is placed on a level with the arm joints, has a like width 

 and, therefore, is easily mistaken for an arm plate. 



The anal plate supports a very stout appendage, composed of a 

 single row of exceedingly large and heavy plates, longitudinally 

 arranged, which, instead of forming into a tube as in the case of 

 other Fistulata, are transversely curved like arm joints, leaving 

 a rather shallow, semicircular furrow on the inner side. These 

 plates are along their back extremely heav}'', as thick as the radials 

 at their upper margins, but they thin out toward their ends, 

 and approaching the furrow become extremely delicate. The 

 proportions of the plates are well shown by our figure of Gatillo- 

 crinus Wachsmuthi (PL 5, fig. 16), in which five of these plates 

 occupy an .inch, while in the same space there are seventeen arm 

 joints. It must be further mentioned that up to that point the 

 plates suffered no diminution in height nor in width, nor is there 

 any decrease in the thickness of the wall, which in Catillocrinus 

 Wachsmuthi, at the top of the fifth joint, is nearly two thirds of 

 the whole width of the appendage. The cross section is semilunu- 

 lar except at the base. The stoutness of the plates on the one 

 side, and the grooved structure on the other, are perhaps due to 

 the great thickness of the radial plates upon which the tube rests; 

 it had to be so necessarily in order to effect a communication with 

 the inner cavity of the calyx. The groove was probably covered 

 during life by perisomic plates. No traces either of a vault or a 

 disk have been observed. 



The arms rise directly from the truncated summits of the 

 radials, without the intervention of axillary plates. There is an 

 arm to every groove, and, hence, some of the radials, contrary to 

 the rule in other Crinoids, support a large number of arms from 

 the same level. The arms are simple, slender, comparatively 

 long, scarcely rounded outwardly, of almost uniform size, and 

 when closed they appear as if united into a solid wall. The arm 

 joints are quadrangular, much longer and somewhat deeper than 

 wide, with parallel sutures. Arm furrows deep, triangular. 



The column is circular, composed of thin joints, the upper part 

 is very stout but tapers rapidly downward. 



Geological Position, etc. The genus is apparently restricted to 

 the Upper Burlington and Keokuk divisions of the Subcarbonif- 

 erous of Aimerica. 




196 tROCEEDtNGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



The following species have been described : 



1865. Catillocrinus Bradleyi, Meek and Worthen, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sei. Phila., p. 



;'.42; also 1868, Geol. Rep. Illinois, vol. v, p. 504, PI. 14, figs. 10 a, 6. Keo- 

 kuk limest. Crawfordsville, Ind. 

 ISjO. Catillocrinus Tennesseae Troost (Type of the genus). List Crin. Tenn., 

 Proceed. Aiuer. Assoc, p. 60. Sliumard, 1868, Trans. Acad. Sci. St. Louis, 

 vol. ii, p. 358. Keokuk limest.. Button-mould Knob, near Louisville, Ky. 



1866. Catillocrinus Wachsmuthi, Meek and AVorthen. (Symbathocrinus [Nemato- 



crinus] Wachsmuthi.) Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 251. Catillo- 

 crinus Wachsmuthi, 1868, Geol. Rep. 111., iii, p. 465, PI. 18, fig. 5. Upper 

 Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 



MYCOCRINUS Schultze. 



1866. Schultze, Monogr. Echin, Eifl. Kalk., p. 223. 

 1879. Zittel, Handb. d. False outologie, voL i, p. 380. 



Schultze supposed that Mycocrinus had no arms, but his own 

 figures and description indicate the contrary. The radials are 

 provided close to the peripliery, and in Iront of the ambulacral 

 grooves, with well developed articular facets, pierced by trans- 

 verse slits. 



Mycocrinus resembles the last described genus very closely, but 

 differs in the bipartite basal disk, the greater symmetry and regu- 

 larity in the arrangement of the radials, and in the general form. 

 We offer the following : 



Revised Generic Diagnosis. Calyx in form of a mushroom, 

 constructed of two series of plates, the upper series forming the 

 thallus, the lower the stalk. The plates are massive, of very 

 irregular form, and without ornamentation. 



Basals two, large, unequal ; one of them twice as large as the 

 other. They are very heavy and form a distinct, subglobose, 

 knob-like body, slightly truncate below for the reception of the 

 column. Its upper side rises to form a low five-sided pyramid, 

 near the outer margins of which there are twelve narrow slits 

 parallel to the edges. Two of the sides have three slits each, the 

 three others two each. 



Radials five, resting with their inner edges upon the angular 

 margin of the basal disk, each plate facing one of the five sides of 

 the pyramid. They spread broadly outward from the edge of 

 the basals, and extend far beyond their outer margins. Two 

 of the radials are of equal width, much larger than the rest. 

 These two are separated from one another at one side by two 

 equal, much smaller plates, at the other by a single plate some- 

 what larger than the two others. The single plate is more than 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



one-balf narrower above than below, owing to an angular exten- 

 sion at the lower half of its two lateral faces, which fit closely 

 into the adjoining excavated side of the large radials. Similar 

 processes arise from the sides of the two smaller plates, but here 

 only along the suture toward the larger one, the opposite suture 

 being perfectly straight. B}^ means of the lateral extensions, the 

 large radials, which at their basi-radial suture have nearlj^ the 

 same width as the smaller ones, attain at their upper face three 

 times the width of the other plates. 



The articular surface of the radials is truncated, unusually 

 thick, and closely resembles that of Catillocrinus. Mycocrinus 

 boletus must have had fifteen arms, for there are fifteen rather 

 shallow ambulacral grooves, which pass from near the periphery 

 of the cal3^x to the radial centre. There are six upon each of the 

 two large radials, and one upon each of the two smaller ones. 

 The six grooves upon the two larger radials unite into one, and 

 hence there are but five main trunks entering the inner cavity. 

 The median part of every groove has a deep linear furrow, which 

 takes a somewhat downward course, and penetrates the walls of 

 the radials. Close to the peripliery, outside of each groove, there 

 is a well-marked slit-like axial canal, making fifteen in all, which 

 pierce the radials throughout their full length, and enter the upper 

 margins of the basals. These canals or tunneled passages are 

 evidently axial canals, which entered through the twelve slit-like 

 openings at the inner floor of the basals the chambered organ, 

 and as such communicated with the arms. 



The body cavity is very small, its width not equaling the thick- 

 ness of the radials ; its depth being less even than its width. 

 Form of the arms, construction of summit and anus unknown. 



The column seems to have been circular, with a small, round 

 central canal. The only species is : 



1866. Mycocrinus boletus Schultze, Monogr. Eehin. Eifl. Kalk., p. 222, PI. 7, fig. 4. 

 Stringocephalenkalk, Devonian. Nollenbach (Eifel), Germany. 



Family XXVI. CALCEOCRINID^ Meek aud W. 



1878. Meek and Worthen, Geol. Rep. Illinois, v, p. 443. 

 1883. De Loriol, Paleont. Franqaise, vi (Crinoides), p. 51. 



Syn. ChirocrinidcB, Angelin, 1878, Icon. Criu. Suec, p. 23. 



Syn. CheirocrinidcB, Zittel, 1879, Handb. d. Palaeont., i, p. 357. 



The only known genus of this family has been variously referred 

 to Cheirocrinus aud Calceocrinus. As early as 1851, Hall, in 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



the Geological Report of New York, vol. ii, p. 352, gave notice of 

 a peculiar Crinoid from the Niagara group, of which he had 

 obtained what appeared to be a bipartite base or pelvis showing 

 a columnar attachment, for which he proposed the name Galceo- 

 crinus. In 1860, in the 13th Regents Report of the New York 

 State Cabinet of Nat. Historjj the same author described under 

 Cheirocrinus six new species of American Crinoids having a base 

 similar to Calceocrinus^ and which evidently belonged to that or 

 a very closely allied genus. According to Salter (Murchisou's 

 Siluria of 1859), the name CJieirocrinus had been used by Austin 

 in MS. for a similar form from the Wenloek limestone, but Eich- 

 wald had already in 1856 preoccupied the name for a certain type 

 of Cystidea. Shumard was the first writer to direct attention to 

 the probable identity of Calceocrinus with Hall's Cheirocrinus, 

 and in his Catalogue of the Palaeozoic Fossils of North America 

 he added the name Calceocrinus in parenthesis to all described 

 species of Cheirocrinus. In this he was followed in 1869 by 

 Meek and Worthen, and in 1879, Hall himself adopted Calceocri- 

 nus, while both Angelin and ZiJ-tel have retained Cheirocrinus. 

 It seems to us the latter name, according to established rules, 

 cannot be upheld for Hall's type, because it was preoccupied by 

 Eichwald for a Cystid, and even if it be true, as asserted by F. 

 Schmidt (Acad. Imp. Sci. St. Petersburg, Ser. ii, vol. xi, No. 11), 

 that Eichwald 's Cheirocrinus is identical with Glyptocystites, 

 which has priority, this would not alter the case. The same view 

 was evidently taken by Meek and Worthen, who proposed, in case 

 doubt should arise as to its identity with Hall's tj-pe of Calceo- 

 crinus, to change the name Cheirocrinus into Eucheirocrinus. 



We would accejot the latter name, had not Hall himself, who 

 had the best opportunity to compare the type specimens, given 

 preference to Calceocrinus. Bigsby, in the Thesaurus Devouico- 

 Carboniferus, erroneously placed the genus Catillocrinus as a 

 synonym under Calceocrinus. 



Calceocrinus was made by Meek and Worthen, in 1873, the type 

 of a distinct family, for which they introduced the name " Calceo- 

 crinidae.''^ This was adopted by De Loriol, but Angelin and 

 Zittel in their classification apply the name ''' Cheirocrinidse.^^ 



Calceocrinus difi"ers in external appearances so essentially from 

 all other Crinoids, that Hall introduced for its description a spe- 

 cial terminology, which was adopted by all succeeding writers. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHTA. 199 



In this special names were given to parts of the calyx, which, as 

 we will presently show, are represented in other genera, and hence 

 should be designated by the same name, the more since some of 

 his appellations conflict seriously with terms long ago established. 

 Hall divided the calj-x into two parts. The one, which he called 

 the " dorsal side," comprises the anterior side and not, as should 

 be expected from the name, the aboral part ; the other, which he 

 designated as the " ventral side," by which are usually under- 

 stood the oral or summit portions, represents the posterior 

 side. According to Hall, the " dorsal side " consists of three 

 perhaps sometimes five " basals," of the " upper and lower dor- 

 sal plate " or the first and second anterior radials, and of the 

 right and left " dorso-lateral plate " or lateral radials. He further 

 discriminates between " plates of the dorsal arm," the brachials 

 of the anterior ray, and those of the " dorso-lateral arms," or arm 

 plates of the lateral rays. The " ventral " side is described as 

 being composed of the "ventral arching plate" which actually 

 consists of two pieces, and which either are anal plates, or non- 

 arm-bearing radials and succeeding these of a row of plates, 

 longitudinally arranged, which were designated as "plates of the 

 ventral side," but which are plates of an anal tube. There are 

 besides summit or vault pieces which, however, were not described 

 by Hall. 



The most remarkable feature of this genus is represented by 

 the basals, which are located on the posterior side of the calyx. 

 They connect with the plates of the anterior side, which is trun- 

 cated, toward the basals, not b}^ suture as in the case of other 

 Crinoids but by muscles and ligament, thus producing between 

 basals and radials a marked articulation. There is a widely gap- 

 ing suture along the articular line, which, as Meek and Worthen 

 suggested, permitted the basals to be opened out on a line with 

 the radials and other parts of the calyx. That the calyx was 

 capable of bending at this point is well shown by a unique speci- 

 men of Galceocrinus tunicatus Hall, in the possession of Mr. 

 James Love of Burlington, in which the main body stands out 

 from the column at an angle of sixty degrees ; while in most of 

 the specimens which we have examined the crinoid hangs down- 

 ward, almost parallel with the column. No specimen, however, 

 shows the calyx in an erect position. 



There are in this genus but three rays, which vary considerably 




200 rROCEEDINQS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



in form and size. The two lateral rays are composed of a large 

 radial, which is followed b}'^ two ver}' small brachials. The an- 

 terior ray has two radials, which combined are smaller than the 

 single lateral ones. The two are generally separated by the lateral 

 radials Avhich join between them, placing one of the plates at the 

 upper, the other at the lower end of the calyx. This peculiar 

 structure has evidently' prevented all former writers from recog- 

 nizing those plates as radials. That the}'- are radials, and were 

 gradually separated in the course of palseontological times, is 

 proved by Hall's Silurian species Calceocrinus chrysalis and 

 Galceocrinus ineequalis Billings,^ by C radiculus Ringueberg and 

 G. Barrandii Walcott, in all of which the plates are narrowly 

 elongate, and united by a short suture. In Galceocrinus goth- 

 landicus of Upper Silurian age, they are separated, but the first 

 radial extends almost to the second. In Calceocrinus clarus and 

 Galceocrinus Barrisi from the Devonian, the distance that sepa- 

 rates them is somewhat greater ; while in all Subcarboniferous 

 species the two plates stand widely apart. 



Galceocrinus agrees with Gatillocrinus in the arrangement 

 and form of its plates. In both of them the second ring consists 

 of five extremely irregular pieces, but, while in the latter all five 

 are arm-bearing, those of Galceocrinus are arm-bearing only in 

 the three anterior rays. The two posterior ones are small and sup- 

 port a large tube. The corresponding plates in Gatillocrinus 

 support upon one end of their upper side an arm, upon the other 

 a similar tube as Galceocrinus, and in both genera the two antero- 

 lateral rays are far stronger developed than any of the others. 

 The two forms resemble each other more closely than might be 

 expected from Crinoids that ditfer so widely in their general 

 aspect, as shown by changing Gatillocrinus from its natural posi- 

 tion into that of a Galceocrinus. This may be done theoretically 

 by pressing the calyx sideways in such a manner that the basals 

 are pushed over to one side, and the three arm-bearing radials to 

 the opposite side. The lateral ones, however, owing to their large 

 size naturally extend to the basal side, where they join the small 

 postero-lateral radials, which, as stated, hold a similar position 



* It was Mr. Walter R. Billings, of Ottawa, who already in 1883 directed 

 our attention to Heierocrinus inmqualis as being a Calceocrinus, and he 

 informed us also that in this species the two anterior radials were joined by 

 sutures. 



I 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 201 



as the aral plates in Calceocrinu^, resting like them against the 

 hasals and supporting a sirailar anal tube. By thus changing 

 the respective parts into a relative position, the affinities wh'ch 

 exist between the two genera can be better appreciated. T.he 

 form of the calyx, however, the articulation between the basals 

 and radials, and the sloping position of the lateral rays is so 

 unique, and strikingly different from Catillocrinus and other 

 genera, that Calceocrinvs must be referred to a distinct family. 



The slight variations, which naturally occur in the branching 

 of the arms, were taken by Hall, and Meek and Wortlien, for 

 specific distinctions. We fear these differences are too trifling to 

 be regarded as such, and we have felt obliged to refer some of 

 their species to our list f synonj^ms. 



Postscriptum. While our descriptions upon the Calceocrinidse 

 were in press, we received a paper from Mr. E. 0. Ulrich (extracted 

 from the 14tli Ann. Rep. Geol. Surv. Minn., p. 104): Remarks 

 upon the names Cheirocrinus and Calceocrinus, with descriptions 

 of three new generic terms and one new species. The author sub- 

 divides the species heretofore known under Galceocrinioi into three 

 genera : Cremacrinus, Deltacrinus and ffah/siocrinus^ and applies 

 to them the family name "Cremacrinidse." There is, in our opinion, 

 no valid reason for discontinuing the names Calceocrinus and Calce- 

 ocrinidse. The genus Calceocrinus was properly defined by Hall 

 and others, and several species have been referred to it by them. 

 Moreover, Meek and Worthen's name Eucheirocrinusyvo\\\^ have 

 priority, and also Calceocrinidse, as both were proposed in 1873. 



Under Cremacrinus Ulrich placed the species in which the two 

 anterior radials (the two central plates of his) are connected ver- 

 tically ; under Deltacrinus those in which said plates are sepa- 

 rated by the two lateral radials (his two large dorso-lateral 

 pieces). This difference, we admit, exists between the Lower 

 Silurian and Subcarboniferous species, but in the Upper Silur 

 and Devonian the two forms pass gradually into one another, so as 

 to make a generic separation impracticable. Ulrich's statement 

 on p. 110, that Cremacrinus has " three primary radials," Delta- 

 crinus " five," Halysiocrinus " eleven," is based altogether upon 

 incorrect observation. All these species have but three arm- 

 bearing radials one of them compound and the plates which 

 Ulrich regarded as " eleven primary radials," are axillary bra- 

 chials of ascending orders. (May, 1886). 

 14 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



CALCEOCKINUS Hall (Revised by W. and Sp.). 



1851. Hall, Geol. Rep. N. York, vol. ii, p. 353, PI. 85, figs. 5, 6. 



18(16. Shuraard, Trans. Acad. Sci. St. Louis, vol. ii, p. 358. 



1869. Meek and Worthen, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 73. 



1873. Meek and Worthen, Geol. Rep. Illinois, vol. v, pp. 443 and 502. 



1877. S. A. Miller, Cat. Amer. Palajoz. Fossils, p. 73. 



1879. Hall, 28th Rep. N. York St. Cab. Nat. Hist. (Ed. ii), p. 146. 



1882. De Loriol, Palseont. Francaise, Tome xi (Crinoides), p. 51. 



1883. Ringueberg, Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist., p. 130. 



Syn. Gheirocrinus Hall (not Eicliwald, 18")6); Hall, 1860, I'^th Rep. 

 N. York St. Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 123 ; Salter, 1859, Murch. Siluria 

 (Ed. 3), p. 535 (Catalogue name); Hall, 1862, 15th Rep. N. Y. St. 

 Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 166 ; Zittel, 1879, Handb. d. Palaeout., i, p. 358. 



Syn. Chirocrinus, Angelin, 1878, Icon. Crin. Suec, p. 22. 



Syn. Pendulocrinus, Austin MS. (Salter, Siluria, p. 535). 



Syn. Eucheirocrmus, Meek and Woithen, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 443. 



In general form the specimens resemble a wilted flower, owing 

 to the position of the cal3'x, which hangs downward along the 

 column. The calyx is laterally compressed, especially at the 

 juncture of basals and radials, where it is almost linear ; while a 

 transverse section across the median part of the radials and 

 through the centre of the basal disk is decidedly triangular. 

 The anterior side forms a flat body, broadly truncate at the lower 

 end, constricted in the middle, and composed exclusively of the 

 radial plates. The basals, which are placed upon the posterior 

 side, are separated from the radials of the opposite side by a 

 widely gaping articular line, occupying the lower end of the 

 calyx. Along this line, probablj^ the upper part of the Crinoid 

 could be bent upwards and be brought in an erect position. The 

 posterior side is composed, in addition to the basals, of two non- 

 arm-bearing plates, which face laterally the incurving sides of the 

 radials, and support upon their upper side an extremely large 

 ventral tube. 



The basals jointly form a kind of semicircular disk, of which 

 the straight line faces the truncated lower side of the anterior 

 radial, and the curved part rests against the infolding lateral 

 margins of the lateral radials, and against the two non-arm- 

 bearing plates. The basal disk, which is slightly convex, is com- 

 posed of three pieces, two of which are equal, the other large and 

 of a very different shape. The two former taken together are 

 lunate, and enclose within their arched sides the other plate, 

 which lies transversely, and occupies almost the entire width of 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



the truncated side of the basal disk. The articular facet for the 

 attachment of the column has a lateral position, and is placed 

 within the centre of the two equal pieces, without touching at 

 an}^ point the third plate. It is large, somewhat excavated, and 

 divided vertically by the suture line. 



The radials consist of four plates of very irregular arrangement. 

 The two larger ones, those of the lateral rays, occupy more than 

 two-thirds of the anterior side of the calyx, and support two small 

 transverse brachials, of which the upper one is axillary. Two 

 much smaller and very irregular plates, which are generally sepa- 

 rated by the large lateral pieces, form the radial of the anterior 

 ray. The large lateral radials are bent abruptly along their outer 

 sides, so as to occupy considerable space upon the posterior side 

 of the calyx. They are hexagonal rarely pentagonal angular 

 at their upper and lower ends ; one of the lower sloping sides 

 abuts against the first anterior radial, the other against the basal 

 disk. The sloping upper face connects at one side with the second 

 anterior radial, the opposite side supports the first brachial plate. 

 Of the lateral faces one meets the corresponding side of the 

 opposite radial, the other an anal plate. In the anterior ray, the 

 first radial is linear, but more frequently triangular, two of its 

 sides resting within a re-entering angle formed by the lateral 

 radials. The lower edge is generally wider, and constitutes the 

 bottom part of the anterior face of the calyx, being on a level 

 with the truncated edge of the basals, and united with them by 

 muscular articulation. The articulating surface, near the outer 

 margin of the component plates, is provided with a deep fossa, 

 evidentl}^ for the lodgment of elastic ligament. A similar but 

 narrower fossa is placed close to the inner margin of the plates, 

 separated from the former by a narrow transverse ridge. The 

 middle part of this ridge extends somewhat into the large fossa, 

 and forms a kind of triangular projection which contains a small 

 axial canal. The second anterior radial has nearly the same form 

 as the first, but its position is reversed, the truncate side being 

 directed upwards, the angle downwards, resting between the 

 sloping upper sides of the adjoining basals. In Calceocrinus 

 chrysalis, in which the first anterior radial joins the second, both 

 plates are exceptionally quadrangular, and, therefore, the first 

 lateral radials pentagonal instead of hexagonal. The plates 

 above are free. There are two brachials in each lateral ray, a 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



single one in the anterior one. The articular line between the 

 lateral radials and brachials is widely gaping, the union between 

 the two succeeding plates apparently b}- syzygy. They are closely 

 fitted together in the specimens, and a suture is rarely discern- 

 ible. The lower one is short and quadrangular, the upper one 

 axillary. The brachial of the anterior ray is generally twice as 

 wide as high, and truncate at its upper side. 



It has been stated that in the lateral rays the first brachials 

 are placed obliquely against the radials, in consequence of which 

 these two rays lean over toward the posterior side. By this 

 peculiar structure, the outer sloping faces of the bifurcating 

 brachials are brought into a vertical, the inner ones into a hori- 

 zontal position. The vertical side supports laterally another 

 axillar}^ the horizontal side vertically a free arm. The former is 

 followed again by an axillary on one side, and an arm on the other, 

 and so on in the same manner to the last bifurcation, the axillary 

 plates all arranged in a nearly horizontal line, the free arms hav- 

 ing an upright direction. In species with but few bifurcations 

 the position of the brachials is more erect. 



The arms are composed of single joints, which are generally as 

 long as wide ; rounded exteriorly and provided with a deep tri- 

 angular groove at the ventral side ; they are comparatively long, 

 rather stout at the base, but taper gradually upwards. The 

 lateral arms, after their first bifurcation, do not branch again, but 

 give ofi" from every third or fourth joint a large arm-like pinnule, 

 which extends to the end of the arm. The lower pinnule is less 

 than half the size of the arm at the place of attachment ; the one 

 or two succeeding ones have nearly the same size as the arras at 

 the place of their origin. The pinnule-bearing joints appear to 

 be somewhat stouter owing to a thick callosity at their upper end, 

 and their line of articulation is directed obliquely. The interme- 

 diate joints have parallel sides, which show neither fossae nor 

 radiations, and probably were united simply by suture. The 

 anterior ra}^ has but a single arm, which is given ofi" in an upright 

 direction. It is stouter than the lateral arms, and remains fre- 

 quently simple throughout, but when it branches occasionally, 

 the division takes place near the distal end. 



Anal plates two, resting against the basals and the incurved 

 wings of the lateral radials. Their upper side supports a row of 

 very large and heavy quadrangular plates, which are longitudi- 



I 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCK8 OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



nally arranged and form the exterior side of an enormous anal 

 tube, extending to the tips of the arms and perhaps beyond their 

 limits, with scarcely an}'^ diminution in size. Like in Calillocrinns, 

 only the posterior side of the tube is heavily plated, the anterior 

 side being composed of very small and delicate plates. 



The column is comparatively large, near the calyx composed 

 alternately of shorter and longer segments, which soon turn alto- 

 gether into long joints. Hall gives the column as very short; it 

 was, however, of considerable length in some cases, as we have 

 followed it up to a foot or more without reaching the root. 



Geological' Position, etc. Calceocrinus makes its appearance in 

 the Lower Silurian, but only in America. It struggled through 

 the Devonian, and reached its greatest distribution in the earlier 

 periods of the Subcarboniferous, but without flourishing abun- 

 dantly. Throughout this long period of time, the species change 

 but little, less than those of an}' other genus, and it is exceedingly 

 difficult to point out specific differences, which in most of them 

 are so slight that they hardly deserve the name. In Europe it 

 has been found only in the Upper Silurian. 



We recognize only the following species : 



188.3. Calceocrinus Barrandii Walcott, 35th Rep. N. Y. St. Mus. Nat. Hist. (Author's 

 Edit., p. 6), PI. 17, figs. 1, 2. Upper part of Trenton limest. Trenton Palls, 

 New Yurk. 



1865. C. Barrisi Worthen, Geol. Rep. Illinois, iv, p. 510, with woodcut. Hamilton 



group. Near Davenport, Iowa. 



]Sfi9. C. Bradley! Meek and Worthen, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 7?>; also 

 1873, Geol. Rep. III., vol. v, p. 502, PI. 14, fig 9. Keokuk limestone. 

 Crawfordsville, Indiana. 



1860. C. chrysalis Hall (Cheirocrinus chrysali's). Tj'pe of the genus. 13th Rep. New 

 York State Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 123, with diagrams. Shumard, 1866, Calceo- 

 crinus chrysalis, Trans. Acad. Sci. St. Louis, vol. ii,- p. 358. Niagara 

 group. State of New York. 



l862. C. clarus Hall (Cheirocrinus clarus), 15th Rep. New York State Cab. Nat. 

 Hist., p. 116, PI. 1, fig. 17. Shumard, 1866, Calceocrinus clarus, Tran.-s. 

 Acad. Sci. St. Louis, vol. ii, p. 358. Zittel, 1879, Handb. der Palajont., i, p. 

 358, figs. 2, 4, 5 a. Hamilton group. Ontario Co., N. Y. 



1878. C. gotlandicus Angelin (Chirocrinus gotlandicus), Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 

 22, PI. 16, figs. 6-14. Zittel, 1879, Handb. der Palfeont., i, p. 358, figs. 245, 

 b, c, d. Upper Silurian. Gothland, Sweden. 



1859, C. inaequalis Billings (Heterocrinus inaequalis), Geol. Surv. Canada, De- 

 cade iv, p. 51, PI. 4, fig. 7 f! ; Wachs. and Spr. Revision i, p. 70. Trenton 

 limestone. Ottawa. 



1866. C. perplexus Shumard, Trans. Nat. Sci. St. Louis, vol. ii. p. 358. Keokuk 



limest. Button-mould-Knob, Ky. 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



1882. C. radiculus Ringueberg Journ. Cinein. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. v, p. 120, PI. 5, 



fig. 4. Niagara group. Lockport, N. Y. 

 1862. C. stigmatus Hall (Cheirocrinus stigmatus), Trans. Alb. Inst., vol. iv, p. 225 

 (Abstr. p. 31). Shumard, 18G6, Calceocrinus stigmatus, Trans. Acad. Sci. 

 St. Louis, vol. ii, p. .358; also Hall, 1S79, 2Sth Rep. N. York St. Cab. Nat. 

 Hist., p. 147, PI. 19, figs. 9-11; also 11th Ann. Rep. St. Indiana by Collett, 

 1881, p. 281, Pi. 19, figs. 9-11. Niagara group. Waldron, Indiana. 

 1860. C. tunicatus Hall (Cheirocrinus tunicatus), l.'ith Rep. N. York St. Cab. Nat, 

 Hist., p. 124, with diagram. Shumard, 1866, Trans. Acad. Sci. St. Loui.s. 

 vol. ii, p. 359. Keokuk limestone. Keokuk, Iowa, Niota and Warsaw, 111. 

 I860. C. ventricosus Hall (Cheirocrinus ventricosus), 13th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab. Nat. 

 Hist., p. 123. Shumard, 1866, Trans. Acad. Sci. St. Louis, vol. ii, p. 359. 

 Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 Spi. Cheirocr. dactylus Hall, 1860, 13th Rep. N. York St. Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 



123. ^Burlington limestone. 

 Si/H. Cheirocr, nodosus Hall, 1860, Ibid. Keokuk limestone. 

 Syn. Cheirocr. Wachsmuthi Meek and Wortheu, 1869, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phila. Burlington limestone. 

 Sgn. Calceocr. dactylus Shumard, 1866, Trans. Acad. Set. St. Louis, vol. ii, p. 



358. 

 Syn. Calceocr. Wachsmuthi, Ibid. 



APPENDIX. 



(January, 1886). 

 STEPHANOCRINIDiE W. and Spr. 



Through the kindness of Prof. R. P. Whitfield, to whom we are 

 under lasting obligations, we had lately an opportunity to examine 

 from the collection of the American Museum of Natural History 

 of New York City, some valuable and unique specimens of the 

 genus Stephanocrinus. Among these were 25 specimens of Ste- 

 phanocrinus angulatus Conrad, two of them showing the brachial 

 appendages the so-called pinnules and 18 specimens of Stephan- 

 ocrinus gemmiformis Hall. 



Stephanocrinus is one of those genera which prove to us how 

 inappropriate it is to make Crinoids, Cystids and Blastoids 

 distinct classes. The genus has been regarded by F. Roemer, 

 Johannes Miiller and Pictet to be a Cystid, by Messrs. Etheridge 

 and Carpenter and S. A. Miller a Blastoid. Dujardin and Hupd 

 and apparently (?) Hall refer it to the Crinoids ; while Prof. 

 Zittel was in doubt whether he should place it with the Blastoids 

 or not. That it has certain affinities with either one of the three 

 groups cannot be denied. It agrees by its oral and anal pj^ramid 

 with certain forms of the Cystids, while in its general habitus 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 20t 



and in the position of the ambulacra it agrees with the Blastoids ; 

 and j-et it is, as we shall prove, unquestionably a PaljBocrinoid. 



It seems Roemer^ had discovered sockets for the reception 

 of brachial appendages, and probably these sockets and the val- 

 vular covering of mouth and anus induced him to place the 

 genus with the Cystidea. Johannes Miiller, who also regarded it 

 a Cystid, makes the remark: " Nierenformige Warzen am Ende 

 der Strahlen des sternformigen Feldes deuten auf die Gegenwart 

 von Armen hin." Hall, in vol. ii, p. 351 , of the New Yoi^k Report, 

 does not describe the appendages which he had discovered as 

 Blastoid pinnules, but speaks of tentacula attached to the margin 

 along a slight groove in the base of the depressions between the 

 angular processes which ornament the summit of the body. 

 These tentacula or fingers consist of ten branches, each composed 

 of a double series of plates above, but uniting below a series of 

 coalescing plates which have a different arrangement. It seems 

 to us this description does not apply to ambulacral appendages, 

 nor do we think that Hall took the genus to be a Blastoid. On 

 p. 212 of the New York Report he called it a Crinoid, and in 

 1879 he placed it aside of well-known Pal^eocrinoidea. Pictet 

 describes the base as composed of " five subradials," and " five 

 basals," and the mouth as surrounded by " ten tentacles." Du- 

 jardin and Hupe place it among the Haplocrinidse, between Eaplo- 

 crimis and Coccocrinus, and also these writers describe within 

 the radial groove a reniform impression for the reception of an 

 arm, but thought to observe " lames paralleles " along the grooves. 

 They regard, like Roemer, the central pyramid, the mouth, and 

 the lateral aperture an ovarian opening. 



Considering that Hall, Roemer, Miiller, and Dujardin and Hupe, 

 all describe at the outer end of the ambulacral groove a reniform 

 scar for the attachment of an appendage, it is somewhat surprising 

 that Etheridge and Carpenter place the genus among the Blas- 

 toids. They undertake to explain this by Hall's discovery of 

 " ambulacral appendages .... like those of other Blastoids," 

 and give it as their opinion that the reniform scar of Roemer " is 

 nothing more than an infolded radial lip." We stated already 

 that we thought Hall never regarded Stephanocrinus a Blastoid, 



^ We do not possess Roomer's description of Stephanocrinus which 

 appeared in Wiegmann's Archiv for 1850, and know it only from the quota- 

 tions of subsequent writers. 




208 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



and he certainly did not describe arabulacral appendages, but 

 branching fingers, no matter what name he gave to the parts. 

 We are confident that the depression at the end of the ambula- 

 cral groove really does exist, and that it is occupied by a second 

 radial. 



Stephanocrinus not onl^^ has two radials to each ray, but 

 branching biserial arms, given off in a somewhat similar m:inner 

 as the arms in the Platycrinidse. The second radials are reni- 

 form, small, bifurcating, and rest within a semi-ovoid or horse- 

 shoe-shaped depression near the outer end of the ambulacral 

 groove. They are succeeded b}'^ two or more axillaries of a 

 higher order, which in the usual way give origin to ten arms to 

 each ray. That these appendages, although they are equall}'^ thin 

 and short, are not pinnules, is proved by the fact that all are 

 supported hy a radial plate, instead of being distributed sepa- 

 rately along the sides of an ambulacrum. It is further shown by 

 one of the New York specimens, in which in one of the raj'S the 

 appendages became disconnected, and were deposited en masse 

 at some little distance from the radials, without the least disturb- 

 ance in their arrangement, a case which could not have happened 

 if they were ambulacral pinnules. 



The ambulacra of Stepkanocriiius are constructed very differ- 

 ently from those of the Blastoids ; they possess no side-pieces, 

 no transverse furrows, no hydrospire pores, and no sockets for 

 the reception of pinnules; they simply are covered by two rows 

 of Saumplattchen, which enclose a tubular canal containing the 

 food groove. The Saumplattchen or covering pieces of the same 

 row are so closely anch^dosed to one another, longitudinally, that 

 it appears even under an ordinary magnifier, and in the most per- 

 fect specimens, as if there were but two elongate plates, one at each 

 side. As such they were represented bj^ Hall in his diagramatic 

 figure. New York Geol. Rep., vol. ii, PI. 48, fig. 1 1, in which the 

 reniform plates at the outer end of the elongate pieces represent 

 the second radials. The figure shows excellently the plates of 

 the ventral side as they generally appear in the specimens ; there 

 is omitted, however, a suture along the so-called coronal processes, 

 which Hall, as well as Roemer, thought he observed, but which 

 were not accurately defined until 1883, b}" Etheridge and Carpenter 

 (Ann. and Mag. Nat Hist., April, p. 239). They found the pro- 

 cesses " divided into an outer part formed by the contiguous limbs 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 209 



of two adjacent radials, and an inner portion or deltoid/ and 

 that the calyx consists of three rows of plates the basals, radials 

 and deltoids. The canals which contain the food grooves are in 

 their usual preservation, more or less compressed, and in conse- 

 quence thereof the two series of covering pieces became separated 

 longitudinally, and appear in the specimens as if forming a deep 

 groove upon the surface following the median line. Little of this 

 groove, however, is seen in plump specimens. 



Etheridge and Carpenter, and also Zittel, regard the two rows 

 of anchylosed covering plates as constituting a single piece, and 

 this, they think, represents the lancet plate of the Blastoids. 

 Upon this point they make on p. 240 of their paper the following 

 statement : " The paired linear plates in the ambulacra we believe 

 to be single, and to represent the lancet plates of other Blastoids. 

 They seem to be usually much eroded and to have a strongly 

 marked median groove, which has been taken for a suture. Even 

 when these plates are preserved the side plates of the ambulacra 

 are generallj'^ missing ; but since Hall has discovered specimens 

 of S. angulatus still attaining ambulacral appendages like those 

 of other Blastoids, we see no reason to doubt the existence of 

 side plates and outer side plates. In fact, the former have been 

 described in S. pulchellus by Miller and Dyer." We doubt if 

 Etheridge and Carpenter ever saw a Stephanocrinus with either 

 side pieces or outer side pieces, or ever will see one, and if Miller 

 and Dyer found such plates in their St. pulchellus, we assert that 

 their species is not a Stephanocrinus. Aside from the fact that 

 the " so-called lancet pieces " are compound structures, we think 

 it utterly impossible from the position which these plates occupy 

 toward the oral plates, that the^'^ could represent lancet pieces, as 

 in that case the food grooves would have to run out into the air 

 in place of entering the interior. 



In both of the New York species, the oral plates are on the 

 same level with the covering pieces ; they meet with each other so 

 as to leave externally, when both plates are in position, no open- 

 ing or passage. The only communication with the inner cavity, 



^ We have substituted here deltoids for ^^oraJs,^' the latter term being 

 used by Etheridge and Carpenter in their paper. When they wrote this 

 they still regarded the deltoids as representing the orals, a mistake which 

 Dr. P. H. Carpenter explained and corrected in his Challenger Report, 

 p. 162. 



AC 




210 PROOEEDINQS OP THE ACADEMY Of [1886. 



in connection with the ambulacra, is beneath the covering plates 

 through the canals or tunnels which we have described. These 

 passages, which are closed at the bottom by the deflected lateral 

 edges of two adjoining interradials, as in the case of Cyathocrimis, 

 grow deeper and narrower on approaching the oral plates ; while 

 toward the arms they widen and divide, transmitting a branch to 

 each main division of the rays. All this goes to prove that the 

 passages are tubular canals, such as we find in the Paleeocrinoi- 

 dea, and that the apparent resemblance between the ambulacra of 

 Stephanocrinus and those of the Blastoids, to a large extent, is 

 superficial. 



The oral 133-ramid, which is rather symmetrical in outline, 

 occupies the very centre of the ventral surface. It is composed 

 of five pieces of nearly equal size, which meet in the centre, and 

 are so closely connected by suture that the lines of union are 

 rarely seen in the specimens. A less close union seems to have 

 existed toward the interradials, for the oral plates are but seldom 

 preserved, when we find in their place a nearly circular opening. 

 The radials extend to the full height of the coronal processes, 

 and resemble in their form closely the forked plates of certain 

 Blastoids ; while in Hall's figure (N. York Rep., vol. ii, PI. 48, 

 figs. 1 h and 2/) they appear like the radials of a Platycrinus. 

 Hall evidently mistook the cracks which so frequently are found 

 at the base of the interradial processes, for sutures, and supposed 

 the united limbs of two contiguous radials, formed a deltoid- 

 shaped interradial plate. 



The most interesting fQa.t\xve of Stephanocrinus unquestionably 

 is the quinque-partite oral pyramid, which, we think, gives us 

 valuable information regarding the undivided oral plate in other 

 groups of the Palaeocrinoidea. It was suggested by us on p. 55, 

 that probably the central or oral plate of the Palteocrinoidea 

 primitively consisted of five pieces, of which the suture lines 

 gradually were obliterated by deposition of new material. In 

 support of this theory we could only refer to the parallel cases of 

 the basals and underbasals among which similar modifications took 

 place not only palaeontologically by anchylosis of one or more of 

 the plates, but also in the growing Crinoid by deposition of lime- 

 stone at the outer surface of the plates, as in the case of Edrio- 

 crinus and Agassizocrinus. We were unable at that time to point 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2ll 



out a single Palseocrinoid in which the peristomial area was 

 closed by five plat^, and therefore regard the case of Stephano- 

 crinus of the utmost importance, not only as confirming our 

 suggestions, but as throwing light upon the orals of the Palseo- 

 crinoidea generall3\ Before, however, we discuss this question 

 any further, it will be necessarj^ to point out the relations of 

 Stephanocrinus with other Crinoids. 



Stephanocrinus, undoubtedly, is closely allied to Allagecrinus, 

 Haplocrinus and Pisocrinus, and must be placed with them among 

 the Larviformia, but, owing to marked difl'erences in the form and 

 arrangement of the arms, it cannot be arranged either with the 

 Haplocrinidaa or Symbathocrinidae, and it will be necessary to 

 establish for it a separate family. Except in the arm structure, 

 the affinities seem to be particularly close with Pisocrinus, 'which 

 has similar interradial processes, formed likewise by the extended 

 limbs of the radials ; but as we know little or nothing of the oral 

 plates and ambulacral structure in this genus, a critical comparison 

 is difficult. It differs also from Haplocrinus in the position of the 

 disk-ambulacra, which in the latter are subtegminal, in the other 

 exposed to view. This, we explain b}- individual growth, and 

 assert from palseontological evidence that Stephanocrinus, like 

 Cyathocrinus and other Palseocrinoidea in its younger state passed 

 through stages in which it closely resembled Allagecrinus and 

 Haplocrinus. Admitting this, it will be interesting, and in- 

 structive, to transform theoretically the lower diffei*entiated 

 Haplocrinus, so as to conform with the conditions of the adult 

 Stephanocrinus. To this end we open out the five ventral plates 

 of Haplocrinus, so as to expose their ambulacral skeleton, and 

 push the ambulacra and the oral plate, which latter occupies the 

 central portions of this skeleton, in an outward direction, in such 

 a manner that the covering pieces fill up the clefts between the 

 interradial plates, and the oral plate the centre, increasing in size 

 as the space gradually grows larger. Nothing further is neces- 

 sary to complete the structure of Stephanocrinus but to extend 

 the sides of the interradials laterally, so as to close the ambu- 

 lacral groove from beneath. By these manipulations, in which, we 

 think, we closely imitated the natural development as it took 

 place among Palaeocrinoids palgeontologically, we placed the two 

 genera in the same relative position, in hopes to arrive therebj' at 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



a satisfactory conclusion as to the morphological resemblance of 

 the respective plates. 



In Stephanocrinus interradials have been admitted, and the 

 plates which do represent them correspond in our hj-pothetical 

 Crinoid with the plates which we opened out to receive the ambu- 

 lacra. The plates have relativel}^ a similar position, both rest 

 against the upper edges of two adjoining radials, and both support 

 a small pyramid or disk, which in both cases not only occupies a 

 strictl}' central position, but covers the peristomial area and closes 

 the oral pole. Now, if this is true, what makes those plates inter- 

 radials onl}^ in the one case and not also in the other, and why does 

 the central disk which they enclose represent the oral pyramid in 

 the one and something else in the other? That the central pyra- 

 mid is quinque-partite in Stephanocrinus, coalesced in the other, 

 is apparent!}' the only structural difference between the two forms, 

 and simply upon this ground the former has been regarded by 

 Carpenter (Chall. Rep., pp. 269 to 271) an oral pj'iamid, and the 

 central plate of Haplocrinus a so-called "orocentral," something 

 totally unknown in Crinoid morphology and that of Echinoderms 

 generally. 



According to Carpenter the orals of Haplocrinus were repre- 

 sented by the five large ventral plates, although these, like the 

 interradials of other Paloeocrinoids, apparently cover the disk and 

 tentacular vestibule, contrary to the case of the orals and summit 

 plates generally which close only the peristomial area. If Haplo- 

 crinus did represent a permanent larval form of the Neocrinoidea 

 instead of the PaltEOcrinoidea. Carpenter would be justified in re- 

 garding those five plates as orals, and could assert that the plates 

 were in the growing animal, and in palaeontological times carried 

 inward b^^ perisome, as he and Etheridge suggested to have been 

 probably the case in the growing Allagecrinus, but we cannot find 

 in the phylogeny of the older Crinoids the least evidence to justify 

 that supposition. On the contrary, everything points at the con- 

 clusion that the orals, and other summit plates, had relatively the 

 same proportions in the younger and lower forms, as in the adult 

 and higher tj^^es ; and we, therefore, regard the respective plates 

 in Haplocrinus like those of Sfephanocrinus,Cyatlwcrinus and the 

 Blastoidea, which Carpenter, likewise, once regarded as orals, as 

 true interradial plates. If the plates in Haplocrinus really were 




18SG.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PUILADELPUIA. 213 



orals, and also the honiolognes of the six or more proximals of the 

 Platycrinidie and Actinocrinidse, and of the five summit plates in 

 Stephanocrinus, which all cover the peristomial area but not also 

 the tentacular vestibule and the disk, it would follow that in the 

 three latter the orals were carried inward by the cah- x interradials 

 b}' which they are surrounded, but not only, as perhaps might be 

 the case in the Camarata, by their higher orders or upward growth, 

 but even by the primary interradials. It would further suggest 

 that in the earliest genera Beteocrinus, Glyptocrinus and allied 

 forms, which have no proximals, the " orals " were unrepresented 

 or resorbed. Also Nanocrinus paradoxus (Echin. Eifl. Kalk., 

 PI. 12, fig. 7 i) has no proximals, the covering pieces, according 

 to our interpretation, rest directly against the central plate. 

 This, we know, is tlie case in two undescribed species of Talaro- 

 crinus, which we discovered lately in Kentucky. In these species 

 the central piece is relatively larger than the combined orals of 

 Stephanocrinus, there are no proximals, and no other interradial 

 plates touching the central plate. The covering pieces occup}^ 

 here a similar position to the central plate the coalesced orals 

 as in Stephanocrinus to the quinque partite oral pyramid. There 

 we have actual specimens, which in all essential points conform 

 with the hypothetical Crinoid which we constructed. 



From Carpenter's arguments (Chall. Rep., pp. 268-2T1) we 

 conclude tliat he regards the hypothetical "orocentral" a kind 

 of keystone, by which the actinal system is closed in a similar 

 manner as at the opposite pole the dorsocentral is said to close 

 the abactinal side. Unfortunately, however, this theory as stated, 

 is not sustained by embryology. No such plate has ever been 

 discovered among living Crinoids, not even in their larval state, 

 before the opening of the tentacular vestibule, which is said 

 to represent the condition of Haplocrinus morphologically. 

 This difficulty Carpenter undertook to explain on p. 270 b}' stating, 

 that if such a plate appeared " it would only be in the way, and 

 have to undergo resorption to a greater or less extent." A weak 

 argument considering that orals of recent Crinoids actually 

 undergo that resorption. But, admitting it, what then became of 

 the orocentral of Stephanocrinus^ AUagecrinus and Coccocrinus, 

 and what of the central piece in the oral pj'ramid of certain Cys- 

 tidea ? He states further " the former (basals) are within the 




214 PROCEEDINQS OF THE ACADEMY OF ' [1886. 



ring of radials, and next to the dorsocentral ; and it seems there- 

 fore only natural to regard the six proximal interradial plates 

 surrounding the central piece (oro-central) in the vault of a Palaeo- 

 crinoid as representing oral plates." Tliis argument is not quite 

 correct, in so far as the central piece is frequently surrounded not 

 only by the proximals his orals but also by the radials and 

 anal plate (see PI. 7) ; contrary to the basals, which form a ring 

 by themselves. Besides, his argument is based to a large extent, 

 if not altogether, upon the hypothetical plate which he calls 

 "oro-central." 



Taking everything in consideration, is it not reasonable and 

 more natural to regard the five orals of the Neocrinoidea, which 

 in the larva are loosely folded together, and which in some of the 

 Cystidea and also in Stephanocrimis were united by a close suture, 

 as gradually becoming anchylosed in a group in which they were 

 permanently closed, than it is to invoke the existence of a new ele^ 

 ment unknown in Echinoderm morphology, and even then have to 

 assert that six plates take the place of five ? ! But not only that, 

 we also have to admit that these so-called "orals " contain in their 

 midst anal and radial plates contrary to the case of the orals of 

 the Neocrinoidea, Stephanocrinus and the Cystidea, and contrary 

 to the basals, the abactinal representatives of the orals as Car- 

 penter admits. 



As a further proof that the central jiiece is the representative 

 of the orals, we refer to the Cystid genus Caryocrinus^ which 

 has three in place of five groups of arms, and which, according 

 to our interpretation, has no proximals. The central piece which 

 occupies the centre of figure, and which we think represents the 

 oral pyramid, is surrounded by eight plates, b}"^ five, (not four) 

 large ones, and three smaller ones, the latter conforming jointly 

 to one of the other five. Three of the plates have a strictly 

 radial position, the three others, including the compound one 

 which takes the azygous side, are interradial. We doubt if 

 Carpenter will regard these six plates, wholly or partly, as the 

 representatives of our proximals his orals or his theory will 

 have to undergo further modifications, as he will find it difficult 

 to restore five primitive pieces from an assemblage of plates as 

 here exhibited. 




188(5.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



STEPHANOCRINUS Conrad. i 



184-2, Conrad, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., vol. 8, p. 278. 



1851. Hall, Palaeoiit. N. York, vol. ii, pp. 212 and 351. 



1851. F. Roemer, Wiegmann's Archiv f. Naturgesch. Jahrg. xvi, vol. i, 



pp. 365-375. 

 1853. Job. Miiller, Verb. d. Berl. Acad. d. Wissenscli., p. 211. 

 1855. Lith. Geogu. (Ausg. 8), p. 266, 

 1857. Pictct, Trait e de Paleoiit., vol. iv, p. 304. 

 1862, Dujardin and Hupe, Hist. Natur, des Zoopli., p. 266. 

 1879. Hall, 28tli Rep. N. York St. Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 146. 

 1881. Hall, lltb Ann. Rep. of Indiana, p. 279. 

 1879. Zittel, Handb. d. Palseont. i, p. 436. 

 1883. Carpenter, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., Apr., p. 237. 



Stephanocrinus resembles in many respects certain forms of the 

 Blastoidea, but has true brachial appendages. The cal3'x is sub- 

 pyramidal, or deeply cup-shaped, with five spiniform interradial 

 processes. 



The basals form a large semicircular or subturbinate cup, more 

 or less truncate at the bottom, with a trigonal distal face, which is 

 slightly excavated for the reception of a column. They consist 

 of three pieces, almost coequal as to size but not as to form, one 

 of them being quadrangular, the two others pentangular. The 

 quadrangular piece takes the position of the smaller basal in the 

 Blastoidea, to the right of the anterior radial ; contrary to other 

 Palaeocrinoidea in which it occupies the left side. In one speci- 

 men, however, exceptionally, it is placed posteriorly, supjjorting 

 the greater half of two postero-lateral radials. 



The first radials are large and resemble to a large extent the 

 forked plates of certain species of Cadaster and Phaenoschisma, 

 in which the limbs the prongs of the fork of two contiguous 

 radials extend up between the arms in an almost vertical direc- 

 tion, but instead of forming, as there, a sort of pyramid, they 

 are extended in Stephanocrinus frequently into long thornlike 

 processes, which sometimes attain more than one-half the height 

 of the calyx up to the arm bases. These processes form radially 

 a deep gutter, containing the ambulacral groove which leads to 

 the arms. 



The second radials rest within a horseshoe-like depression near 

 the outer end of the gutter. The plates are reniform, small, short, 

 axillary, with three conspicuous prong-like projections extending 




216 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [188G. 



inward. The outer ones of these projections are wing-like, rest- 

 ing against, and partly upon, the intcrradials ; the inner one 

 sword-shaped, their sharp point extended deeply into the ambu- 

 lacra! groove, so as to divide it, and to form a branch groove for 

 each main division of the rays. Stephanocrinus angiilatus evi- 

 dentl}'^ had ten arms to the ra}'', but the mode of branching 

 beyond the second radials is not well known. We found, how- 

 CA-er, in one instance the second radial succeeded by two other 

 axillaries. The arms are biserial, thin, short, pinnule-like, and 

 they cover the whole ventral surface. In length they do not 

 extend beyond the interradial processes, which apparently were 

 to protect these delicate organs. 



The intcrradials are comparatively large. They resemble in 

 form and position the deltoids of Codasler, Troostocrinus and 

 other Blastoids, in which, like here, no part of the plates is visi- 

 ble in a side view. Tliey extend to the top of the projections and 

 rest against the inner faces of two limbs, the suture running 

 downwards so as to divide the processes into an inner and outer 

 part. The plates are connected laterally with one another, but 

 not centrally. They leave in the centre a moderately large open 

 space, which in perfect specimens is filled by oral plates. The 

 lateral edges of the intcrradials are deflected, curvino; downward, 

 so as to form a wide and deep ambulacral groove, which on 

 approaching the inner end becomes deeper and narrower, and 

 toward the arm bases divides as stated above. The ambulacral 

 grooves are readily distinguished from the general gutter formed 

 by the protuberances. The3' contain neither hydrospires, nor 

 pores, nor other openings, but there seem to be small axial canals 

 at the arm bases. At each side of the ambulacral groove there is 

 a sort of depression, which forms a place of attachment for two 

 series of small, subquadrangular covering pieces, which form a 

 vault over the groove, leaving underneath a circular, compara- 

 tively large passage, which at one end communicates with the 

 arms, at the other enters the calyx beneath the edge of the oral 

 pyramid. The covering plates of the same series are so closely 

 anchylosed that they appear in the best specimens, even under a 

 magnifier, as two single plates, one at each side, as which the}^ 

 were figured by Hall. Their composite nature and alternate 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



arrangement, however, was ascertained in places where portions 

 of this integument had been weathered. 



The oral pyramid, which occupies the centre of figure, is placed 

 on a level with the covering pieces to wliich it is closely attached. 

 It rests against the truncated margins of the interradials, which 

 for its reception are slightly excavated. It is composed of five 

 subequal pieces, which are so closely united by suture laterally 

 and centrally, that the suture lines are rarely visible, and the 

 plates appear as if forming a single piece. 



The anal aperture is located ventrally, near the top of one of 

 the interradial processes, at the place where two of the limbs meet 

 with the interradial. In its usual preservation it consists of a 

 rather large circular opening, which, however, in perfect speci- 

 mens is closed by a valve of from four to six small pieces. 



The Stephanocrinus which Hall described and figured in the 

 28th Rep. of the N. York St. Cab. Nat. Hist. (Second Edition), 

 p. 146, PI. 14, figs. 15-20, is in our opinion specifically distinct 

 from S. gemmiformis, and even generically unless the small inter- 

 radial plates are very incorrectly outlined. 



S. osgoodensis S. A. Miller ( Codaster osgoodensis) , Cincin. Journ. 

 Nat. Hist., vol. ii, PI. 10, figs. T and T a, which the author in his 

 Catalogue of the Palseoz. Fossils (Second Edition) referred to 

 Stephanocrinus is described from internal casts, and too incom- 

 pletely known for identification. St. pulchellus, S. A, Miller, is 

 a Codaster. 



The column is small, and composed of comparatively long 

 joints. 



Geological Position, etc. The genus has been found exclusively 

 in the Niagara group of America. 



The following species have been described : 



1842. Stephanocrinus angulatus Conrad. (Type of the genus). Journ. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., vol. viii, p. 279, PI, 15, fig. 8. Pictet, 1867, Traite de Paleont., 

 vol. iv, PI. 99, fig. 23. F. Roemer, 1851, Wiegmann's Archiv., Jahrgang 

 xvi, pp. 365-375, PI. 5. Hall, 1851, Palaeont. N. York, vol. ii, pp. 213 and 

 351, PI. 48, fis. 1 a-m, and PI. 85, figs. 1-4. Niagara group. Lockport, N. 

 York. 



1851. St. gemmiformis Hall, Palajont. N. York, vol. ii, p. 215, PI. 48, figs. 2a-t; also 

 1879, 28th Rep. New York St. Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 146, PI. 14, figs. 15-20 ; also, 

 1881, 11th Ann. Geol. Rep. Indiana by CoUett, p. 279, PI. 13, figs. 15-20,^ 

 Rochester, N. Y., and Waldron, Indiana (?). 



15 




218 proceedings of the academy op [1886. 



Notes on the Underbasals and Top Stemjoint of Neocrinoidea 



AND PaL^EOCRINOIDEA. 



On p. 8 we stated that probably many Neocrinoids, heretofore 

 supposed to be monocyclic, either have small underbasals con- 

 cealed beneath the column, or that these plates had been repre- 

 sented in the early larva. We referred to the genera PentacrinuSy 

 Millericrinus and Apiocrinus, which, according to our generaliza- 

 tions on p. T, are built decidedl}^ on the plan of dicyclic Palseo- 

 crinoids. Our investigation, unfortunately, could be extended 

 only to comparatively few species, as the column and axial canal 

 of the Neocrinoidea very frequently, and even among the genera 

 to which we alluded, are not angular, and Pentacrinus among the 

 three is the only genus that has lateral cirrhi. 



Rudimentary underbasals are known to exist in the Pentacri- 

 noid genus Extracrinus, and similar plates have been discovered 

 in the ApiocrinidjB by Mr. De Loriol in two species of Millericrinus. 

 In these species, as in the case of Extracrinus, the angles of the 

 column, when this is pentangular, are interradial, the canals radial, 

 exactly as in species in which underbasals are supposed to be 

 wanting, but contrary to the conditions of monocyclic Palseocri- 

 noids in which the angles of the column are radial, the axial canals 

 interradial. 



Millericrinus polydactylus, according to Mr. De Loriol (Mono- 

 graph of the French Crinoids, p. 553, PI. 110, figs. 1 a and 2 ay, 

 has five minute plates within the basal ring, which were regarded 

 by him as " infrabasalia," the term which he applies to under- 

 basals. De Loriol describes these plates as follows : " Je distingue 

 trfes nettement, sur deux individus, cinq pieces extremement 

 petites, a peine distinctes a I'oeil nu, qui son logees an centre de 

 Particle basal, chacune reposant sur le sommet de I'une des 

 carfenes, dans une direction radiale ; au centre se trouve une 

 petite depression qui forme le fond de la cavite. Ces petites 

 pieces, que je n'avais jamais encore observees, jouent evidemment 

 le role de pieces infrabasales, mais a I'^tat tout a fait rudimen- 



1 By an error it was stated on p. 7 in Eule 2 : the five sections of the 

 column are "radial,^^ the longitudinal sutures " interradial," which should 

 read: the five sections of the column are "interradial," the longitudinal 

 sutures "radial." 



'^ This and the succeeding- quotations are made from the Palcontologie 

 Franqaise, Ire Serie, Animaux Invertebres, Terrain Jurassique, Tome xi, 

 Premiere Partie, Crinoides, par M. P. De Loriol, Paris, 1883-1884, 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



taire." Similar pieces were discovered by him in his MiUericri- 

 nus Orhignyi (PL 116, figs. 1 b,Cjd), upon which he says on p. 

 566 : " Elles ne peuvent absolument se voir que lorsque, par un 

 hasard heureux, Particle basal pent se d^ager du calice. II me 

 parait indubitable que ce sont la de petites pieces infrabasales 

 rudimentaires semblables a celles que j'ai signalees dans le Hill, 

 polydactyhts.''^ 



We full}^ agree with the distinguished Swiss palaeontologist 

 that the plates in question in both cases are rudimentary under- 

 basals, from the very fact that the plates are disposed radially, 

 the outer angles of the column interradially, as seen in Hill. 

 Orhignyi^ in which the stem is pentangular. 



Admitting these plates to be underbasals, we doubt if all 

 other species of Millericrinus, which have an interradial pentan- 

 gular stem, and those with a round stem, and the species of Apio-- 

 C7-inus^ a genus which, according to De Loriol, is closely allied to 

 Miller icrinus, should be devoid of underbasals. In that case the 

 two species should be separated from the others, and be placed by 

 themselves under a very distinct genus. 



That small underbasals at least temporarily were represented 

 in other species of Millericrinus and in Apiocrinus, is indicated 

 by the fact that the open space within the basal ring, which in 

 Millericrinus Orhignyi is occupied by the underbasals, is radial, 

 contrary to the axial canals of monocyclic Palaeocrinoids, which 

 are interradial. Moreover, the space is not in proportion to the 

 axial canal in the stem, which in both genera is small and 

 circular. The space in these species is large enough to have con- 

 tained, in addition to the axial canal, such small plates as De 

 Loriol figured in Millericrinus Orbigny, and these, if present, 

 would talie the same position as the underbasals in that species. 



In all dicyclic Crinoids, the column rests either exclusively 

 against the underbasals, or, when these are very small, also partly 

 against the basals. The latter is the case in the two species of 

 Millericrinus where underbasals are known to be present. In 

 these species they form together with the basals a deep concavity 

 for the reception of the top stem joint, which occupies the whole 

 concavity, as beautifully shown by De Loriol in Mill, polydactylus 

 (PI. 110, fig. 1 a). In other species of Millericrinus in which 

 no underbasals have been observed, and in the genus ApioctHnus, 

 the structure is fundamentally the same, except that the columnar 

 concavity is formed exclusively by the basals, the underbasals 




220 PROOEEDINQS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



being here absent, and the space which they should fill left vacant 

 in the fossil. In all these species the top stem joint occupies the 

 same position toward the basals that it does in the two 

 species in which the underbasals are in place, although the 

 plate varies considerably in form. In some of them it ap- 

 pears as if forming a part of the cahx, in others as an ordinary 

 stem joint. In some species it is much wider than the succeeding 

 joints, in others of the same width ; but there are all possible 

 gradations between the extremes. In all of them, however, the 

 plate rests against the outer walls of the basals as in Mill, poly- 

 dactylus, not within the basal ring, and in all of them the basal 

 concavity, whether large or small, is completely filled bj?^ the top 

 stem joint. 



It is very interesting that in the two cases in which De Loriol 

 accidentally discovered underbasals, these were separated from 

 the basals, and are closely attached to the column, which goes to 

 prove that probably already a partial resorption of the plates 

 took place. It suggests further that the union with the under- 

 basals was tighter than with the basals, that probably the former 

 was effected by common suture, the other by S3'Z3^gy or some other 

 loose way, the apposed faces being either striated or showing 

 traces of fossae. 



A near approach to the structure of Millericrinus polydactylus 

 we find in Mill. Piletti (PL 63), in which no underbasals were 

 observed, but the lateral faces of the basals (fig. 8 a) show clearly 

 that underbasals were once present. The column also here, from 

 the first joint down, is strictl}^ interradial, the axial canal small 

 and round, and not in proportion to the large open space between 

 the basals. The basal concavitj^ is funnel-shaped, very deep, 

 wide at the outer end. The upper stem joint is large, and extends 

 in width considerably beyond all succeeding joints. 



A similar base exists in Mill. Milleri (PI. 96), in which again 

 the upper columnar joint is laterally extended and strictly inter- 

 radial, the columnar canal round, and much smaller than the 

 open space within the basal ring, which is star-shaped, the rays 

 directed radiall3^ 



A very different base is figured by De Loriol in Apiocrinus 

 magnificus (Pts. 46-48), in which the top stem joint takes the 

 form of the anchylosed underbasal disk of the Palseocrinoid genus 

 Stemmatocrinus. A comparison, however, with other species 

 proves very clearly, that it is a top stem joint of a very extreme 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



form, and that the plate actually rests against the outer faces of 

 the basals, and not between the hasals as in the case of the inner 

 plate in Stemmatocrinus and Cupressocriyius, which Carpenter 

 (Chall. Rep., p. 152), as we think, erroneously took to be a stem 

 joint. The plate in Apiocrinus niagnificus is not, as should be 

 supposed from appearances, disposed radially, but interradiall}', 

 as shown by comparison with species having a pentangular stem. 

 It attained its radial angles accidentall}^ by adapting its form to 

 the basal concavity which is naturally angular. The case is parallel 

 to that of Eucalyjytocrinus and Bari^andeocrinus, in which the 

 angles of the upper column are shaped so as to conform with 

 surrounding plates, which are in that genus the radials. 



In Apiocrinus Parkinsoni (Pts. 27 and 28) and in A. roissyanus 

 (Pts. 41-45), the basal structure is similar to that of Ichthyocrinus, 

 but, while in the latter the underbasals are persistent through 

 life, they may have disappeared in the other. The basal concavity is 

 shallow, and in both species the upper portions of the column taper 

 abruptlj'^ in a downward direction. The same is the case fre- 

 quently among the Ichthyocrinida3. 



The base of Guettardicrinus and Rhizocrinus is in a similar 

 condition, but less concave. For Rhizocrinus we refer to the 

 Challenger Report, PI. x, figs. 5 and 9. The top stem joint 

 resembles closely that of Ajnocrinus, and also the basal con- 

 cavity, which also here is filled completely by the top joint. The 

 columnar canal is circular or ovoid, and much smaller than the 

 pentangular space within the basal ring, which, contrary to mono- 

 C3^clic Crinoids, is directed radially. The same is the case in 

 Guettardicrinus. Both genera are built on the same plan as 

 Apiocrinus, and if the latter possessed underbasals, these plates 

 were also present in Rhizocrinus and Guettardicrinus. 



In the Pentracrinidffi, and not only in Extracrinus, in which 

 underbasals have been observed, but also in Pentracrinus and 

 Metacrinus in which they are said to be absent, the angles of 

 the column, without exception, are interradial, the lateral cirrhi 

 radial, but, while the axial canals of Metacrinus, and probably 

 Extracrinus, are radial ^ in conformity with dicyclic Palseocri- 

 noids, they are interradial in Pentacrinus,^ as in all monoc}'"- 



1 Challenger Report, PI. 12, figs. 1 and 2, and PI. 41, figs. 6 and 7. 



2 PI. 12, figs. 15 and 16 ; PI. 20, figs. 1 and 2 ; PI. 22, figs. 1, 2, 7 ; PI. 23, 

 figs. 1 and 2 ; Pi. 26, fig. 11 ; PI. 27, figs. 2, 3 ; PI. 30, fig. 4 ; PI. 34, figs. 8 

 and 9 ; PI. 37, figs. 14 and 15. 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



clic older Ciinoids. This departure from what we discovered to 

 be the rule in the Palteocrinoidea induced us not to mention the 

 axial canals in suggesting on p. 71 that perhaps " all Neocrinoids, 

 or at least many of them, may have possessed in their larval state 

 rudimentary underbasals hidden by the column," basing our argu- 

 ments mainly upon the interradial angles of the column and the 

 radial position of the columnar cirrhi. This forms at present an 

 objection to our view that the two genera, and especially Penta- 

 crinus, are dic^xlic. On the other hand it must not be over- 

 looked that the position of the column, whether radial or inter- 

 radial, apparently is governed by laws similar to those by which 

 the underbasals are radial, the basals interradial. The pentapar- 

 tite stem and this is found in quite a number of palaeozoic genera, 

 especially Silurian alternates always with the proximal ring of 

 plates, the segments are radial when there are basals only, inter- 

 radial when also underbasals are present. In Paheocrinoids in 

 which the column is undivided and pentangular, its position, 

 whether radial or interradial. is ascertained from its lateral angles, 

 and hence their direction morphologicallj^ important. In species 

 in which the underbasals are small, and completely covered by 

 the column, as sometimes in Barycrinus, the angles of the column 

 occupy the same relative position toward the basals, as the upper 

 stem joint of Metacrinus, Pentacrinus, Millericrinus and the cen- 

 trodorsal of all Comatulge does toward their basals. This led us 

 to the conclusion that either the rules, which meet with no excep- 

 tion among Palseocrinoidea, as far as we know, either do not hold 

 good for the Neocrinoidea, or the genera to which we alluded, 

 and which are built otherwise upon the plan of dicyclic Crinoids, 

 really possessed rudimentarj^ underbasals during life as Extracri- 

 nus and certain species of Millericrinus^ or that perhaps under- 

 basals were present in their larva. 



The ventral surface of the centrodorsal in some species of 

 Antedon is almost identical with that of the top stem joint of 

 Millericrinus,t\iQ plate is also interradial (PL 6, fig. 11), and 

 rests, as in the Apiocrinidse, against the outer face of the basals, 

 not within the basal ring. It is similar in other Comatulae, in all 

 of which the centrodorsal is interradial, and upon this mainly, we 

 base the opinion that perhaps also the Comatulae in their early 

 larva had rudimentary underbasals. That these plates, if present, 

 were not observed, is not surprising, as they may have been very 

 minute and been covered entirely b}' the column. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 223 



Zittel suggested (Handb. d. Palseont., i, p. 390), that the plate 

 which connects with the basals in Apiocrinus probably repre- 

 sented an anchylosed underbasal disk, composed of five pieces. 

 That this is impossible is shown by the case of Mill, polydactylus, 

 which in that case would have two rings of underbasals. We 

 fully agree with De Loriol and Carpenter that it is an enlarged 

 stem joint, and believe that the plate represents morphologically 

 the top joint (the first one beneath the basals) of all Crinoids, 

 recent or fossil. The plate forms no integral part of the calyx, 

 but rests in all cases either against the dorsal (outer) face of the 

 basals, against the underbasals, or against both of them. It is 

 disposed interradially in the Apiocrinidse, Pentacrinidse and Com- 

 atulfie, similar to dicyclic Pal^ocrinoids, and undivided ; while in 

 other groups it is sometimes compound (tripartite or quinquepar- 

 tite). The underbasals, however, form an integral part of the 

 calyx, they rest within the basal ring, against the lateral faces of 

 the plates, and they are composed primarily of five pieces, which 

 occasionall}' are reduced by anchylosis to three, or coalesced into 

 a solid disk. If this is correct, it follows that the inner plate of 

 Stemmatocrinns, Cupressocrinus and allied genera is not a stem 

 joint, as suggested by Carpenter (Chall. Rep. 153) and others, 

 but an anchjdosed underbasal disk, as seen by examining the 

 inner side of the calyx, which shows that the plate forms a part 

 of the calyx, and rests against the lateral faces of the basals, 

 within the basal ring, and not against their outer faces. 



ADDITIONS AND CORRECTIONS. 



Owing to peculiar circumstances preventing a suificiently careful super- 

 vision of ljublication (although the proofs were carefully examined by one 

 of the authors), a number of errors have been detected, especially in the first 

 section of Pt, III. Two or three of these are exceedingly annoying, entirely 

 changing our meaning. We request our readers to make the changes at 

 once in their copies as indicated below. 



Part I. 



On p. 239 (Ex. Ed., p. Ki), 6th line from bottom, for "Palseocrinoids" 

 read ^'Pcntacrinoids.''^ 



On p. 251 (Ex. Ed., p. 28), 16th line from top, for "first radials" read 

 "basals''^ (although the interpretation thus indicated has been modified 

 by us). 



On p. 324 (Ex. Ed., p. 101), 11th and 10th line from bottom, change 

 twice: "radial" into '^interradial,^^ and " interradial " into "radial'^ 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



Part II, 



On p. 207 (Ex, Ed,, p. 33), 4th line from bottom, for "inverted" read 

 ^'recumbent.'''' 



On p. 247 (Ex. Ed., p. 78), 19tli line from bottom, for " ornigranules " 

 read " ornigranulus.''^ 



On p, 250 (Ex. Ed,, p, 76), 4tli line from top, for "vesiculus" read 

 ^' vesiculosus.'" 



On p. 281 (Ex. Ed., p, 107), 20th line from top, for " elongatulus " 

 i-ead ' ' elegantulus. ' ' 



On p. 281 (Ex. Ed., p. 107), IGth line from top, for "comptus" read 

 "comtus;^' and 20th line from bottom, for " Harbrocrinus " read 

 " Habrocrinus.^' 



On p. 298 (Ex, Ed., p. 124), 2d line from top, for "posterior" read 

 " superior.'''' 



On p. 299 (Ex. Ed., p. 125), 7th line from top, for "first" read "second,:'' 



Onp, 319 (Ex, Ed,, p. 145), 2d line from bottom, for "tennuis" read 

 "tenuis:^ 



On p, 320 (Ex. Ed,, p. 146), 1st line from top, for " tennuisculptus " 

 read " tenuisculptus:' 



Onp. 356 (Ex. Ed., p. 182), 12th line from top, for "basals" read 

 "underiasals.'^ 



On p. 389 (Ex. Ed., p. 215), 4th and 11th lines from top, for "pendant" 

 read " pendent: ' 



On p. 393 (Ex. Ed., p. 219), 14th line from top, for " mammilaris " read 

 "moAnmiUaris:' 



Part III, Sect, I. 



Onp. 228 (Ex. Ed,, p. 6), top line, insert after "and" the words "we 

 think:' 



Onp, 229 (Ex, Ed., p. 7), 5th line from bottom, for "radials" read 

 "interradials:' and 4th line from bottom, for " interradials " read 

 "radials:' 



Onp. 230 (Ex. Ed,, p, 8), 15th line from top, after the word "cirrhi" 

 insert * ' when present. ' ' 



On p. 232 (Ex. Ed., p. 10), 10th and 11th lines from top, for "postero- 

 lateral" read " antero-lateraV 



On p. 235 (Ex, Ed., p. 13), 8th and 10th lines from top, for " PI, 6 " read 

 "PI. 5;" also 4th line from bottom, for " Hoplocrinus " re?id."naplocrinus:' 



On p. 241 (Ex. Ed., p. 19) : Our statement in the 16th and 17th lines from 

 bottom has been made the basis of a criticism by Dr. P. H. Carpenter, which 

 is well founded. It did not properly express our meaning, and we change 

 it as follows : Strike out all after the word "present" to the end of the 

 sentence, and insert : "in others apparently absent externally, either as a 

 rule or occasionally, but in these cases ice believe them to be represented on the 

 ventral side, as in the Crotalocrinidce:' In the same connection, on p. 295 

 (Ex. Ed,, p, 73), m the 12th line from the top, strike out "all," and after 

 the word "are" insert "generally:^ 




1886.] NATtJRAL SCIENCES OP tHltADELPHIA. 225 



On p. 245 (Ex. Ed., p. 23), 3d line from top, for "Paleeocrinidse " read 

 ' ' Palmocrinoidea. ' ' 



On p. 249 (Ex. Ed., p. 27), 6th line from bottom of text, for "PI. 2 " 

 read " PI. 5." 



On p. 253 (Ex. Ed., p. 31), 8tli line from top, for "stellatus" read 

 " stellaris.^^ 



On p. 254 (Ex. Ed., p. 32), ISth line from top, before "alone" insert 

 "^er7ia;?s," 



On p. 255 (Ex, Ed., p. 33), 14th line from bottom, for " multiradiatus " 

 read "multibracMatus,''' and for "fig. 2" read "fig. G ;" also 11th line from 

 bottom for "Norwordi" read '^ Norwoodii;"' also 5th line from bottom, for 

 "to each plate" read ''or more.'^ 



On p. 263 (Ex. Ed., p. 41), 5th line from bottom, for "radials" read 

 "interradials.''^ 



On p. 277 (Ex. Ed., p. 55), 14th line from bottom, for "PI. 8" read 

 "PL 9." 



On p. 285 (Ex. Ed., p. 63), 9th line from top, for "PI. 1 " read "Pi. 4." 



On p. 287 (Ex. Ed., p. 65), 5th line from bottom, for "lovensis" read 

 "wwe?i8is." 



On p. 291 (Ex. Ed., p. 69), 12th line from top, for "anal" read "oraZ." 



On p. 292 (Ex. Ed., p. 70), 14th line from top, read "PakBocri7ioidea."' 



On. p. 294 (Ex. Ed., p. 72), last line, for "as a rale" read "always 



On p. 295 (Ex. Ed., p. 73), top line, for "Palseozic" read " Palmzoic 



On p. 300 (Ex. Ed., p. 78), at top, for " Stellerites " read " Stellerids." 



On p. 303 (Ex. Ed., p. 81), 16th line from bottom, for " Palseocrinoidse " 

 read " Pal(eocrinoidea.'^ 



On p. 307 (Ed. Ed., p. 85), 15th line from top, for " Beteocrinus " read 

 "Betcocrinus.''^ 



On p. 812 (Ex. Ed., p. 90), 6th line from bottom, for " Platynicridse " 

 read ' ' Pla tycrinidce. ' ' 



On p. 331 (Ex. Ed., p. 99), under Thylacocrinus, for "Vanuiosti" read 

 " VanniotV 



On p. 327 (Ex. Ed., p. 105), top line, for " mespiliformes " read "mespili- 

 formis.''^ 



On p. 336 (Ex. Ed., p. 114), 12th line from bottom, for "simple" read 

 "singled 



On p. 349 (Ex. Ed., p. 127), 18th line from bottom, for " Nebergangs- 

 geb.," read " Uebergangsgeb.f^ and on the 11th line, for "Dupe" read 

 "Huper 



On p. 359 (Ex. Ed., p. 137), 9th line from top, for "peristjmeal" read 

 "peristomial;'^ and 12th line, for "were" read " loas.^^ 



Mr. W. R. Billings discovered underbasals in Olyptocrinus priscus, and 

 we therefore refer the species to "Ptychocrinug.''' He also did send a dia- 

 gram of Rhodocrinus (f) asperatus, which leaves but little doubt that it is 

 a somewhat aberrant form of " AreJiwocrinus.^^ 



5 




226 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



Part III, Sect. II. 



On p. 71 (Ex. Ed., in 147), 13tli line from bottom, strike out the word 

 "constructed." 



On p. 79 (Ex. Ed., p. 155), 2d line from bottom, read " Myrtillocriniis" 

 without an "7t." 



On p. 89 (Ex. Ed., p. 165), 10th line from top, for "Austin!" read 

 "AiistiniV 



On p. 90 (Ex. Ed., p. 166), 3d line from bottom, for " Scytalocrinus " 

 read ' ' Stylocrinus. ' ' 



On p. 99 (Ex. Ed., p. 175), 11th line from top, for -'T. granulatus" read 

 " T. pyriformis.^^ 



On p. 105 (Ex. Ed., p. 181), 14th line from bottom, for "pyrimidalis" 

 read "pyramidalis." 



On p. 115 (Ex. Ed., p. 191), 15th line from top, for " Streblocrinus " 

 read ' 'S&eptocrinus. ' ' 



On p. 150 (Ex. Ed., p. 228), 22d line from top, for "subuminus" read 

 " subtumidm.''^ 



On p. 157 (Ex. Ed., p. 233), 18th line from top, strike out the brackets 

 and insert "commas " in their place. 



On p. 161 (Ex. Ed., p. 237), 5th line from bottom, for " Dactilocrinus " 

 read ^'Dactylocriims.''' 



On p. 162 (Ex. Ed., p. 238), 13th line from top, for "single" read 

 "iimple." 



On p. 163 (Ex. Ed., p. 239), 16th line from bottom, for " Parisocrinus " 

 read ' ' Pachylocrinus. ' ' 



On p. 166 (Ex. Ed., p. 242), 11th line from bottom, insert: ''*Woodo- 

 crinus coxanus, Worthen {Zeacrinus coxanus), Oeol. Rep. Illinois, mi, p. 302, 

 PL 28, fig. 1. Keokuk gr. Hamilton, III. Syn. Zeacrinus Keokuk, ibid., 

 p. 303, fig. 3." 



On p. 167 (Ex. Ed., p. 243), 10th line from bottom, for "PI. 6, fig. 3," 

 read "PI. 6, fig. 9 and PL 9, fig. 5." 



On page 169 (Ex. Ed., p. 245), 5th line from bottom, for "orbicularis" 

 read "glohularis.''^ 



On p. 171 (Ex. Ed., p. 247), 12th line from bottom, for " Epachycrinus " 

 read "Eupachycrinus." 



On p. 173 (Ex. Ed., p. 249), 17th line from bottom, for " platybasilis " 

 read "platyhasalis.^'' 



On p. 175 (Ex. Ed., p. 251), 15th line from top, add the word " right'' 

 before postero-lateral . 



On 177 (Ex. Ed., p. 253), 18th line from bottom, for " Eriocrinus" read 

 "Erisocrinus.''' 



On p. 197 (Ex. Ed., p. 273), 21st line from top, leave out the word 

 "axial"' before "canal."*' 




1886.] natural sciences of philadetphia. 22t 



April 6. 

 Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair. 



Twenty-five persons present. 



Permission having been given, Prof. Heilprin withdrew his 

 paper entitled " On a Giant Conorbis from the Oligocene of 

 Florida." 



The death of Charles Wilt, a member, was announced. 



Fresh-water Sponges from Newfoundland : A new Species. 

 Mr. Edward Potts stated that in the latter part of August, 1885, 

 Mr. A. H. MacKay, of Pictou, Nova Scotia, whose success as a 

 collector of fresh-water sponges in his own neighborhood has 

 been already recorded (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1884, p. 215, 

 etc.), made a scientific visit to the island of Newfoundland. His 

 explorations were mainl}' limited to the irregular peninsula of 

 Avalon,the southeasterly extremity of the island, and the record 

 of his collections beside mentioning the neighborhood of the 

 city of St. Johns, embraces such familiar names as Trinity Bay, 

 Harbor Grace, and Heart's Content, the landing place of the 

 Atlantic cable. 



He writes " I was extremely sorry that owing to ray limited 

 time and the impenetrability of the interior to any ordinary 

 effort, I could not gain access to the great lakes in the heart and 

 the western portion of the island. I have merely made a dip into 

 a few of the ponds on the N. (?) E. coast." These are more par- 

 ticularly mentioned as Virginia and Ouidi Vidi Lakes, near St. 

 Johns ; Lady Lake, Bannerman Lake, Rocky Lake and Car- 

 bonear Lake, small bodies of water near Harbor Grace ; and 

 other lakelets and brooks upon the rocky ridges and near the 

 sea level between Harbor Grace and Heart's Content. All this 

 region is described as "the Canadian Huronian, the equivalent of 

 the English Cambrian," and the collections were generall}^ 

 limited to the shallow margins of the ponds, where the sponges 

 were found upon the under sides of splinters of hard slaty 

 quartzites, in numbers very plentiful, but generally small ; " from 

 mere points to an inch or more in diameter." 



It is to be regretted that the date of Mr. MacKay's visit was 

 necessarily so early in the year, as the specimens collected were 

 either immature or contained onl}^ the degenerate statoblasts of 

 the preceding season. The information gathered as to the range 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



of temperature upon this island, is valuable as indicating so far 

 the conditions of the growth of these and other organisms. 



He says : " The Island is not extreme in its temperature, and 

 the frost does not go very deep into the soil. The lakes freeze 

 in November or December with ice at least a foot in thickness, 

 and remain closed until the end of April. The average tempera- 

 ture during eight years, from 1857 to 1864, was 41-2 Fahr. 

 Average maximum thermometer during the same time 83, 

 minimum 7. In the year 1879, the mean temperature was 40*2 

 Fahr,; highest record August 3, 82; lowest December 22, +4. 

 In Nova Scotia, though that is so much further south, the range 

 is far greater, from +96 to 20 or 24 Fahr., with an annual 

 average of 44." 



The specimens of sponges so kindly forwarded by Mr. MacKay 

 for examination and report, were more or less minute incrusta- 

 tions upon small stones, gathered as above indicated, and 

 belonged to the species SjMngilla lacustris, Auct. ; S. fragilis, 

 Leidy ; S. mackayi, Carter ; Meyenia Jiuviatilis, Auct., and 

 Heteromeyenia pictovensis and Tubella pennsylvanica, Potts. Of 

 these, Spongilla fragilis was by far the most abundant, and our 

 knowledge of its range is thus extended along the Eastern coast 

 of North America from Florida to Newfoundland ; whereas it 

 had previously been traced westwardly to British Columbia 

 near the Pacific Ocean, and more recently has been discovered in 

 Russia, Bohemia and England. Beside the familiar species, S. 

 lacustris, S. fragilis and M. fluviatilis, Tubella pennsylvanica 

 has been rapidly enlarging its borders beyond the narrow limits 

 of its original territorial designation ; while S. mackayi and H. 

 pictovensis had previously been known only from the discoveries 

 of Mr. MacKa}^ in Nova Scotia. 



One other form remains to be described, and at the suggestion 

 of its discoverer it is hereby designated 



Spongilla Nov^ Terk^, n. sp. 



Sponge incrusting ; sarcode of the 3'oung growth, a dense 

 mass of minute spherical cells, embedding slender curving lines 

 of fasciculated skeleton spicules, developing later into a very 

 loose, open tissue, with few connecting spicules. 



Gemmules rather numerous, unusually large, spherical ; chitin- 

 ous coat thin ; " crust " apparentl}'^ wanting. 



Skeleton spicules relatively few, slender, cylindrical, smooth 

 or sparsely microspined ; gradually pointed. 



Dermal or flesh spicules very abundant, minute hirotulates of 

 unequal size ; shafts slender, cylindrical, occasionally spined ; 

 outer surface of rotules dome shaped ; rays prolonged, termina- 

 tions acute ; malformations frequent. Mixed with occasional 

 linear, spined spicules. 




1886.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



229 



Spicules upon the 



gemmulaj 



abundant, crossing each other 

 upon the crustless, chitinous 

 body. Their shape when 

 smooth is robust -fusiform, 

 with pointed terminations ; 

 the great majority, however, 

 have from one to six or more 

 long spines, non- symmetri- 

 cally placed, but with an 

 evident tendency to group 

 themselves at points about 

 one-fourth the length of the 

 spicule from one or both of 

 its extremities. 



Measurements : Diameter 

 of gemmules 0'036 inches ; 

 skeleton spicules, 0-0068 by 0*0002 inches ; length of average 

 dermal spicule, 0'00066 inches ; of gemmula spicule, 0*00145 

 inches. 



Habitat. Encrusting stones in shallow water. 

 Locality. Lakes or ponds in the vicinity of Heart's Content, 

 Newfoundland ; collected by Mr. A. H. MacKay. 



All the specimens of this sponge came from the neighborhood 

 of Heart's Content, but whether they were gathered from a lake 

 upon the heights or from a brook mentioned by Mr. MacKay near 

 the sea level, does not seem entirely clear. The accompanying 

 illustration (magnified 225 diameters) will suggest the peculiari- 

 ties of its skeleton, dermal and gemmular spiculation. The 

 striking resemblance of the dermal spicules to the minute 

 birotulates, heretofore only known in a corresponding position, 

 in the case of Meyenia evei'etti, will at once impress the student. 

 These are however more variable in size, are occasionally spined, 

 and have their rays more prolonged and more delicately ter- 

 minated. 



It is in the singular character of the spicules surrounding the 

 gemmulae that this sponge must attract peculiar attention. By 

 the system of H, J. Carter, Esq., the fresh-water sponges are 

 now classified into six genera, beside some conditional designa- 

 tions of forms in which the typical features are as yet undis- 

 covered. These six, Spongilla, Meyenia, Heteromeyenia, Tubella, 

 Parmula and Carteriiis, may again be associated into two 

 groups, one of them including only the genus Sj'ongilla, charac- 

 terized by the linear acerate spicules surrounding the gemmulae ; 

 and the other comprising all the other genera, where the spicule 

 of corresponding significance is a hirotulate or some easily recog- 

 nized derivative of that type. Within this latter and larger 

 group intermediate forms, connecting the defined genera, are 

 frequent, and the location of species upon one side or other of 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



the distinctive line comparatively unimportant. Heretofore, 

 between tlie genus Spovgilla and those genera comprising the 

 other group, there has been " a great gulf fixed." One only case 

 in the past has suggested their possible association, or the 

 development of one group from the other. 



In Meyenia acuminata, Potts (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1882, p. 69), since regarded as a variety of M. Jluviatilis, the 

 shafts of the birotulates are prolonged at each extremity, form- 

 ing acuminate terminations some distance beyond the surface of 

 the rotules. In position, also, these spicules are abnormal, lying 

 flat upon the chitinous coat, instead of resting upon one rotule, 

 their shafts taking the position of radii, as is usual in this form. 

 In fact we have the spicules of a Meyenia occupying the ordinary 

 positions, and in degree approximating the forms of those pecu- 

 liar to the SpongilliB. 



In the present instance their intermediate character is still 

 more striking, and while their form and position probably more 

 closely associate them with the genus Spongilla in which the 

 species has now been placed, the grouping of the ray-like species 

 clearly suggests Meyenia. It has been an altogether unprece- 

 dented experience with the author to hesitate between these two 

 genera, and it will be no cause of surprise if the future teacher 

 shall shift it from its present position. 



It must not escape notice that in both of these instances the 

 gemmuliB are without " crust;" that it is difficult to understand 

 how birotulates could be supported in their ordinary i)ositions 

 without these embedding granules ; and that we may not unrea- 

 sonably infer that the change in position has induced the modifi- 

 cation of type that we here find. 



This collection of sponges, including the new species, has been 

 examined coincideutly by H, J. Carter, Esq., F. R. S., and their 

 identification and this description are believed to meet his 

 approval. 



April 1.3. 



Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair. 



Nineteen persons present. 



The death of the Hon. John Welsh, a member, was announced. 



April 20. 



Mr. Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., in the chair. 



Fifteen persons present. 



The death of Andrew Nebinger,M.D., a member, was announced. 




1886.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 231 



April 27. 

 The President, Dr. Jos. Leidy, in the chair. 



On Anthracomai^tus Trilobitus Scud. Prof. F. L. Harvey re- 

 marked that the coal field of North Arkansas belongs to the 

 western interior coal area, which covers the greater part of Mis- 

 souri, and extends into Iowa, Kansas, Nebraska, Indian Territory, 

 Arkansas and Texas. This vast field covers 78,000 square miles, 

 of which about 10,000 are in Arkansas and 12,000 in the Indian 

 Territory. It belongs to the lowest, the suhconglomerate. The 

 veins occur in the shales of the millstone grit, less than 100 feet 

 above the Archimedes limestone. There is only one vein in the 

 northern limit, which is from eight to eighteen inches .thick. In 

 the Arkansas River valley there are three veins which often have 

 an aggregate thickness of over six feet. The veins lie high in the 

 hills in the Boston Mountains, but the southward dip brings them 

 in the Arkansas River valley, beneath the drainage of the country. 

 The veins in north Arkansas are worked in a limited way by 

 scalping and drifting, but shaft mining is done at Coal Hill, 

 Spadra and other points and there is at present considerable 

 coal exported to New Orleans down the Arkansas valley route. 



The conditions were most favorable for the preservation of plant 

 remains. Beautifully preserved plants occur in the shales above 

 the coal vein of northwest Arkansas and limited research in 

 Washington County alone yielded the speaker over 100 species 

 new to the State and fifteen new to science. 



While searching for fossil plants in the brash shale near the 

 coal, a specimen of fossil spider was found. By carefully work- 

 ing over a few tons of shale several more specimens were procured. 

 The material was sent to Prof. Scudder for examination and he 

 named the form Anthracomartus trilobitus, sp. nov. It is believed 

 to be the only species of the genus found in the coal measures of 

 the United States. The genus was founded upon a single Euro- 

 pean species. It is interesting that a second species should be 

 found so far separated. Fossil insects are scarce in the suhcon- 

 glomerate, and the three known from Arkansas are, a wing of 

 Blattina venusta, discovered by Prof. Lesquereux and figured in 

 Owen's Report of Arkansas, vol. ii, p. 312 ; the species of spider 

 under consideration and an undescribed Neuropterous larva in 

 the cabinet of the speaker. The description and figure of this 

 Anthracomartus, so far as we know, has not been published, 

 but is enumerated in Mr. R. D. Lacoe's " Check List of 

 Palaeozoic Insects." Less than a dozen specimens are known and 

 they are in the cabinets of Prof. Scudder, Mr. R. D. Lacoe and 

 the speaker, besides the specimen presented to the Academy 




232 PROCEEDINQS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



this evening. The specimens are all imperfect, showing only 

 the abdomen and a part of the cephalothorax. The most of tliem 

 were compressed vertically and give a transverse view. Tlie 

 compressed abdomen reminds one of the pygidium of a trilobite, 

 hence the specific name. A single specimen compressed laterally 

 shows well the elevated and rounded abdomen characteristic of 

 our modern spiders. The cephalothorax is minutely punctate. 

 The species is interesting as occurring at the base of the coal 

 measures. The locality is no longer worked and the species may 

 be considered scarce. 



Messrs. Calvin McCormick and Samuel Wagner were elected 

 members. 



The following was ordered to be printed : 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



A REVIEW OF THE AMERICAN GASTER0STEID.5:. 

 BY CARL H. EIGENMANN. 



In this paper I have attempted to give the synonymy of the 

 American species of G aster osteidae with analytical keys for their 

 identification, and such notes as my studies of the group seem 

 to justify. The specimens examined all belong to the Museum 

 of the Indiana University. 



I am indebted to Dr. David S. Jordan for the use of his library 

 and for many suggestions. 



Analysis of Gene7-a of Gasterosteidse. 

 a. Snout not prolonged ; dorsal spines 3 to 11. 

 b. Innominate bones joined, forming a median plate on belly 

 behind ventral fins. 

 c. Gill membranes joined ; their posterior border free from the 

 isthmus ; spines small, mostly feeble. 

 d. Dorsal spines 7 to 11, weak, divergent ; innominate bones 

 with the outer edge stout and thick; the median part 

 scarcely ossified ; pubic bones long, weak, widely diver- 

 gent, leaving a <l-shaped naked area in front of ventral 

 spines ; body slender. Pygosteus. 1. 



dd. Dorsal spines 5, non-divergent, of moderate size; innomi- 

 nate bones united, forming a short, narrow but strong 

 ventral plate ; pubic bones weak, short, widely divergent, 

 leaving a subcircular space in front of ventral spines ; 

 body rather stout ; skin smooth. Eucalia. 2. 



cc. Gill membranes narrowly joined to the isthmus ; innomi- 

 nate bones large and strong ; spines of fins mostly 

 strong ; divergent ; dorsal spines 3 or 4 in number ; 

 pubic bones very broad, long and little divergent, 

 leaving a lanceolate-shaped, naked area in front of the 

 ventrals ; form robust ; skin mailed or naked. 



Gasterosteus. 3. 

 66. Innominate bones not joined, but each extending as a strong 

 process under the skin on outside of insertion of ventrals ; 

 the area between them flat and not ossified ; pubic bones 

 short and weak, not visible externally ; dorsal spines 

 strong, divergent, 4 in number ; gill membrane broadly 

 joined to the isthmus; body rather stout; the caudal 

 peduncle very slender ; skin smooth. Apeltes. 4. 



16 




234 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



aa. Snout projecting, subtubiform ; dorsal spines small, about 15 ; 

 innominate bones joined only at base ; body elongate ; sides 

 mailed. Spinachia. 5. 



1. PYGOSTEUS. 



Pyrjosteus (Brevoort MSS.) Gill, Cat. Fish. East Coast N. A., 39, 1861. 



(Not characterized); Canadian Naturalist, ii, 8; August, 1865 {occi- 



dentalis). 

 Oasterostea Sauvage, Revision dcs Epinoches, 29, 1874 {pungitius). 



This genus is cbaracterized by the presence ofl to 1 1 divergent 

 dorsal spines and by the weakness of the innominate bones. It 

 differs from Gaster-osteus also, in having the posterior margin of 

 the gill membrane free and by the less development of the spin- 

 ous armature. 



But a single species, variable in its characters, seems to be 

 known. It is widely distributed in the fresh and brackish waters 

 of northern regions. 



Analysis of Species of Pygosteus. 



a. Body extremely elongate and slender, deepest at ventral spines, 

 decreasing in height towards head and tail. Head long, 4 

 in length to base of caudal. Mouth large, very oblique ; 

 maxillary not reaching to anterior margin of orbit. Teeth 

 small, in a single series. Eye large, its diameter greater 

 than snout. Caudal peduncle keeled, slender and long, 

 about 5 in length to base of caudal. No bony plates along 

 side ; small plates extending along the bases of the anal 

 and soft dorsal. Post pectoral plate present, large and 

 faintly granulate. Scapula forming a triangular post oper- 

 cular plate ; operculum striate. All the surface bones very 

 weak, bones of scull granulate; innominate bones weak, trans- 

 lucent, thin in the median part. Gill openings extending to 

 below posterior edge of preopercle. Vertebrae (pungitius) 

 14 + 18. Caudal fin lunate, long and narrow. 



b. Ventral spines more than one-third of head. I). VII. to 

 IX-1, 9; A. 1, 8. Pungitius. 1. 



66. Ventral spines less than one-third length of head. D. X- 

 I. 10 ; A. I, 10. Brachypoda. 1 (a.) 




1886.] NATURAL SCrENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



1. PYGOSTEUS. 

 1. P. pungitius. 



Gasterosteus aculeis in dorso decern Artecli, Gen. Pise, 52, 1738. 

 Oasterosteus pungitius LmnsBua, Syst. Nat., Edit, x, L. 296, 1758 (bastd 

 on Artedi) (and of European authors generally); Storer, Rept. Fish. 

 Mass., 32, 1839 (Salem); Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1879, 10 

 (Boston); Goode & Bean, Fish. Essex Co. and Mass. Bay, 5, 1879 

 (Salem Pond); Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1880, 77 (Wood's HoU); 

 Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 128 (Hudson Bay); Jordan and 

 Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 393, 1883 ; Steams, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 1883, 124 (Labrador). 

 Pygosteus pungitius Forbes, Bull. 111. Lab. Nat. Hist., iii, 69, 1880 

 (Calumet R.; Lake Michigan); Jordan, Ohio Geol. Rep., 999, 1882 

 (Name only); Jordan, Cat. Fish. N. A., 63, 1885. 

 Gasterosteus pungitivus Walbaum, Artedi Piscum, 446, 1792 (After 



Artedi). 

 Gasterosteus occidentalis Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poissons, 

 iv, 509, 1829 (Newfoundland); Dekay, Nat. Hist. N. Y., 68, plate 

 XLH, fig. 135, 1842 (New York) ; Jordan, Cat. Freshwater Fish. 

 U. S., 441, 1878 (Name only). 

 Gasterosteus pungitius var. occidentalis Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., 



i, 6, 1859 (North America). 

 Pygosteus occidentalis (Brevoort MSS.) Gill, Cat. Fish. East Coast N. 

 A., 39, 1861 (East Coast); Gill, Cat. Fish. East Coast N. A., 16, 

 1873 (Name only); Jordan, Man. Vert., 248, 1876 (Great Lakes); 

 Goode, Bull., xiv, TJ. S. Nat. Mus., 53, 1879 (Name only); Goode, 

 Bull, xxi, U. S. Nat. Mus., 31, 1880 (Name only). 

 Gasterostea occidentalis Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches 30, plate i, 



fig. 18, 1874 (Newfoundland). 

 Gasterosteus concinnus Richardson, "Fauna Bor. America, iii, 57," 

 1836 (Saskatchawan and Mackenzie Rivers); Dekay, Nat. Hist. N. 

 Y., 68, 1842 (Northern regions); Giinther, Cat. Fish, Brit. Mus., i, 

 6, 1859 (copied). 

 Pygosteus concinnus Jordan & Copeland, Checklist N. A. Fresh Water 

 Fish., 40, 1876 ; Jordan, Cat. Fresh Water Fish N. A., 441,' 1878 

 (Name only). 

 Gasterostea concinna Sauvage, Revision des EiJinoches, 35, 1874 (Name 



only), 

 Gasterosteus mainensis Storer, Boston Journal Nat. Sci., i, 465, 1837 

 (Kennebec Co., Maine); Dekay, Nat, Hist. N. Y., 68, 1842 (copied); 

 Giinther, Cat. Fish, Brit, Mus., i, 6, 1859 (copied); Sauvage, Revi- 

 sion des Epinoches, 33, 1874 (copied). 

 Pygosteus mainensis Jordan & Copeland, Checklist N. A. Fresh Water 

 Fish, 140, 1870 (Name only); Jordan, Cat. Fresh Water Fish N. A., 

 441, 1878 (Name only). 




236 PROCEEDINQS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



Pygosteus occidenialis var. mainensis Jordan, Man, Vert., 348, 1876 



(Kennebec Riv.). 

 Gasterosteus nebulosus Agassiz, Lake Superior, 310, plate iv, fig. 4, 1850 



(Lake Superior). 

 Pygosteus nehulosus Jordan, Fish. Indiana, 31, 1874 (Lake Michigan); 



Jordan and Copeland, Checklist N. A. Fresh Water Fish., 140, 1876 



(Name only); Nelson, Bull. 111. Lab. Nat. Hist., i, 42, 1877 (Lake 



Michigan). 

 Pygosteus ocndentalls var. nebulosus Jordan, Man. Vert., 248, 1874 ; 



Jordan, Bull. Ills. Lab. Nat. Hist., ii, 51, 1877 (Lake Michigan); 



Jordan, Cat. Fresh "Water Fish. N. A., 441, 1878 (Name only). 

 Gasterosteus dekayi Agassiz, "Lake Superior, 311," 1850 (after Dekay); 



Putnam, "Proc. Essex Inst., 148, 155 ;" Putnam, Bull. Mus. 



Comp. Zool. i, 11, 1863 ; Storer, Hist. Fish. Mass., 91, plate viii, fig. 



3, 1867 (Massachusetts). 

 Pygosteus dekayi Gill, Cat. Fish. East Coast N. A., 39, 1861 (Name 



only). 

 Gasterostea dekayi Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 31, 1874 (New 



York). 

 Gasterostea blancTiardi Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 32, 1874 



(New York); Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1879, 31 (Boston). 



1 ft. P. pungitius brachypoda. 



Gasterosteus jmngitius brachypoda Bean, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., xv, 

 129, 1879 (Oosooadlin Mountain Streams and Lakes); Bean, Proc. 

 U. S. Nat. Mus., 1880, 77 (American Harbor); Bean, Arctic Cruise, 

 118, 1881 (Elephant Point, near Icy Cape); Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. 

 Mus., 1881, 240 (St. Paul, Kodiak ; Unga Island, Shumagins ; Iliu- 

 liuk Lake, Unalaska ; St. Paul Island, Bering Sea ; St. Michaels ; 

 Port Clarence ; Elephant Point ; Eschscholtz Bay ; Icy Cape, Arctic 

 Ocean; Alaska; Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 270 (Pacific 

 South of Bering Strait); Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. N. A. Fish., 394, 

 1883; Bean, BuU. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxi, 19, 1883 (St. Michaels, Alaska). 

 Gasterosteus pungitius Stejneger, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1883, 65 

 (Commander Islands). 



Habitat. Shores of Northern Europe and Eastern America 

 South to New York, also in the great Lakes and northward ; var. 

 brachypoda in the North Pacific, the specimens examined by me 

 are from Calumet Lake, Ills., and from Massachusetts. 



The synonom^^ of this species, as given above, needs a word of 

 remark. 



The pungitivus of Walbaum is of course identical with the 

 pungitius of Linnaeus. 



I cannot see that east coast specimens, representing the occi- 

 dentalis of Cuvier and Valenciennes, and that of Dekay, differ 




1886.] NATURAL SCtENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 237 



at all from descriptions of the European pungitius, but I have 

 had no specimens of the latter for direct comparison. I cannot, 

 therefore, regard occidentalis as a separate species or variety. 

 The dekaiji of Agassiz is based on the occidentalis of Dekaj' ; 

 I have therefore placed it also in the synonymy of pungitius. 



The mainensis of Storer is said to differ from pungitius only 

 in having a " bony serrated plate on the side." This probably 

 refers to the plate behind the pectorals. 



The concinnus of Richardson is said to differ in having seven 

 dorsal spines, but as the number seems to vary from 7 to 11, this 

 cannot be considered as a specific character. I have examined 

 specimens from Calumet, R. Illinois (presumably representing 

 the form called nehulosus). I can find no difference whatever 

 between these and Massachusetts examples of pungitius. 



The var. hrachypoda seems to differ from pungitius only in the 

 shorter ventral spines. It is known to me only from the descrip- 

 tion of Dr. Bean (above cited). 



2. EUCALIA. 



Eucalia 3ovA.2ia, Man. Vert,, ed. i, 248, 1876 (inconstans) . 



This genus is closely allied to Pygosteus, agreeing with it in 

 the structure of the gill membranes, but differing in having the 

 dorsal spines few and non-divergent, and in having the innomi- 

 nate bones more fully united. The species are the most feebly 

 armed of the Sticklebacks. 



Analysis of Species of Eucalia. 



a. Body moderately robust, the caudal peduncle not very slender; 

 depth 4 in length to base of caudal. Head pointed ; 

 mouth small, very oblique ; maxillary reaching to anterior 

 margin of eye ; teeth small, stout, in a single series ; 

 eye large, much longer than snout. Caudal peduncle 

 moderately compressed, 7^ times in length to base of 

 caudal. No bony dermal plates ; skin naked ; no post- 

 opercular (suprascapular) plate ; post-pectoral plate covered 

 by skin ; skin of head not ossified. Lateral line beginning 

 at upper angle of preopercle and curved to below fourth 

 dorsal spine, from where it goes straight to middle of tail ; 

 a second row of tubes is seen for a small distance along its 

 origin. A patch of mucous pores at beginning of lateral 

 line ; a row along the edge of the preopercle and a c-shaped 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



row at nape. Dorsal spines about equal to one-half diame- 

 ter of eye, the first just reaching base of second; these 

 spines are recurved and slightly serrate on their edges ; 

 the fifth spine is more recurved and higher than the others. 

 Soft dorsal very high in front, its longest ray about equal 

 to snout and half the orbit ; the last ray equals half the 

 orbit ; caudal short and broad ; anal inserted below inser- 

 tion of second dorsal, similar to and coterminous with it. 

 Pectorals short and broad, their length equal to their 

 breadth at tips. Vertebrse (cayuga), 14 + 18. Brownish with 

 lighter blotches and black points. Males in spring black, 

 tinged with red on the jaws and snout. 

 b. Ventral spines equal to f length of innominate bones ; post- 

 pectoral plate large, variable, mostl}' V-shaped. D. IV-I, 

 10 ; A. I, 10. Inconstans. 2. 



bb. Ventral spines short, but longer than innominate bones ; 

 post-pectoral smaller than in preceding, mostly f|-shaped. 

 D. IV-I, 10 ; A. I, 10. cayuga. 2 (a). 



bbb. " D. Ill or IV-I, 6. A. I, G." (?). pygmsea. 2 (6). 



2. EUCALIA. 

 2. E. inconstans. 



Gaaterosteus inconstans Kirkland, Boston Journal Nat. Hist., iii, 273, 

 1841 (TmmbuU Co., Ohio); Dekay, Nat. Hist. N. Y., 68, 1842 

 (Name only); Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pkila., 1865, 81 (Suker- 

 toppen, Greenland); Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 394, 1883. 



Apeltes inconstans Jordan, Fish of Indiana, 31, 1874 (Northern 

 Indiana). 



Eucalia inconstans Jordan, Man. Vert., ed. i, 249, 1876 (Name only); 

 Jordan & Copeland, Checklist N. A. Fresh-water Fish, 141, 1876 

 (Name only); Nelson, Bull. Ills. Tab. Nat. Hist., i, 42, 1876 (Copied); 

 Jordan, Bull. Ills. Lab. Nat. Hist., ii, 58, 1877 (Small Streams of 

 Northern Ills.); Jordan, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1877, 65; 

 Jordan, Cat. Fresh-water Fish N. A., 441, 1878 (Name only); Forbes, 

 Bull. Ills. Lab. Nat. Hist., iii, 68, 1880 (Northern Ills.^. 



Gasterosteus microptis Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1865, 81 

 (Fort Riley, Kansas); Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 28, 1874 

 (Copied). 



Eucalia micropus Jordan & Copeland, Checkli.st N. A. Fresh-water 

 Fish, 141, 1876 (Kansas). 



Oasterosteus gloMceps Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 35, 1874 

 (North America). 



E^icalia inconstans, var. pygmwa Jordan, Geol. Report Ohio, 998, 1882 

 (Central Ohio ; Trib. of Great Lakes). 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 239 



2 a. E. inconstans cayuga. 



Eucalia inconstans, var. cayuga Jordan, Man. Vert., ed. i, 249, 1876 

 (Cayuga Lake) ; Jordan c% Copelaud, Checklist N. A. Fresh-water 

 Fish, 141, 1876 (Name only); Jordan, Geol. Report Ohio, 998, 1882. 



2 b. E. inconstans pygmaea. 



Gasterosttus pygmmis Agassiz, Lake Superior, 314, 1850 (Lake 



Superior). 

 Eucalia inconstans, var. pygmcea Jordan, Man. Vert,, ed. i, 249, 1876 

 (Copied); Jordan & Copeland, Checklist N. A. Fresh-water Fish, 

 141, 1876 (Name only); Nelson, Bull. Ills. Lab. Nat. Hist., i, 42, 

 1876 (Lake Michigan). 



Habitat Fresh waters of North America, from Kansas and 

 Great Lake region northward to Greenland. Var. cayuga in 

 tributaries of Lake Ontario. Var. pygmseus in Great Lakes. 



The specimens of the typical inconstans examined by me are 

 from Rock River, Illinois. 



Those of the var. cayuga are from Syracuse, New York. 



The micropus of Cope would seem to differ in its shape, being- 

 shorter and deeper, and in having a smaller post-pectoral plate 

 and ventral spines. All of these characters are of doubtful per- 

 manence. 



The globiceps of Sauvage offers no peculiar characters. 



The var. cayuga seems to differ from inconstans in having 

 longer ventral spines and smaller post-pectoral plates ; it is per- 

 haps identical with it. 



The pygmaea of Agassiz is said to differ from inconstans in 

 having the body shorter and deeper, and in the number of fin 

 rays. The difference in form is of no importance, and it is not 

 likely that the alleged difference in the fin rays is real. 



3. GASTEROSTEUS. 



Oasterosteus Avtedi, Gen. Pise, 52, 1738. 



Gasterosteus LinniBus, Syst. Nat. Ed. x, i, 295, 1758 (aculeatus). 



G aster acanthus Pallas, "Zoogr. Rosso, Asiatica, iii, 228," 1811 (cata- 



phar actus). 

 Leiurus Swainson, Nat. Hist. Class Fishes, ii, 242, 1839 (gymnurus, etc.). 



This genus is distinguished from Pygosteus and eucalia in hav- 

 ing the posterior margin of the gill membrane joined to the isth- 

 mus. The body is more robust ; the spines and innominate bones 

 much stronger ; the pubic bones ver}- broad and little divergent. 

 Its species are the strongest of the sticklebacks and the most 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



fully armed. All of them are very variable and very closely 

 related one to another. The species with the bony plates most 

 developed are most marine in their habit, while the partl}'^ or 

 wholly naked forms seem rather to inhabit the rivers. It may 

 be that a complete gradation exists from the fully armed aciileatus 

 to the naked williamsoni^ in which case all these forms should 

 be regarded as varieties of aculeatus. All northern regions seem 

 to possess full mailed species (aculeatus and vars.) and half 

 mailed species (allies of gymnurus). The former type seems 

 identical on both sides of the Atlantic, but the latter type so far 

 as our specimens can show seems to be different in America from 

 any described in Europe. 



Analysis of Species of Gasterosteus. 

 a. Sides entirely covered with (28 to 30) bony dermal plates. 

 Caudal peduncle keeled ; ventral spines each with a large 

 cusp on outer edge of base. Bones of head striate, the 

 skin ossified. Mouth large, little oblique ; maxillary not 

 reaching front of eye ; teeth small, in a single series in lower 

 and double series in upper jaw. The anterior plates are 

 joined above to the large bony plates at base of spines ; the 

 posterior plates are separated from the small plates at bases 

 of soft dorsal and anal by narrow naked strips. Lateral line 

 high up, parallel with outline of back and along middle of cau- 

 dal peduncle, which is strongly keeled. Dorsal spines serrate 

 on their edges. Origin of soft dorsal far in advance of origin 

 of anal. Caudal lunate ; anal spine recurved, smaller than 

 third dorsal spine, the fin similar to soft dorsal. Yentrals 

 long and slender, serrate. Pectorals narrow. D. I-I-I, 11 

 to 13; A. I, 9 or 10. 

 b. Body moderately robust, the depth 4^ in length. 



Aculeatus. 3. 

 bb. Body deeper and stronger ; caudal keel very strong. 



cataphractus. 3. (a.) 



aa. Sides partly covered with (2 to 15) bony dermal plates, the 



posterior part of the body naked. Ventral spines with or 



without cusp at base. 



c. Sides with 15 bony plates ; caudal peduncle keeled ; body 



slender; ventral spine long, almost or quite reaching vent ; 



dorsal spines in a straight line. Head 3^ in length to base 



of caudal ; depth 5. D. I-I-I, 11 ; A. 1, 8. Silvery below 



with dark bands across the body (Bean). Atkinsii. 4. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA, 241 



cc. Sides with 2 to 6 bony dermal plates ; caudal peduncle 

 keeled or not. 

 d. Yentral spine without cusp at base, 

 e. Dermal plates 4 to 6 ; body stout, little compi'essed ; head 

 large, flat above, a small knob at occiput. Mouth large, 

 maxillary almost reaching front of orbit. Teeth in broad 

 bands in front. From occiput, two rows of mucous pores 

 diverge to posterior borders of eye, extending thence 

 parallel with the orbit to above nasal opening forming an 

 arrow-shaped figure. Plates on sides imbedded, thin; 

 striate ; the last one immediately in front of second dor- 

 sal spine. Post-pectoral plate striate j^-shaped. Scapula 

 forming a striate post-opercular plate. Caudal peduncle 

 very thick to a point immediately in front of caudal 

 where it is much compressed. Innominate bones and 

 ventrals vaiying much in relative length, so that in some 

 specimens the one is the longer in others the other. 

 Dorsal spines short, straight, broad at base, serrate on 

 outer edges. First spine about f in eye, third very 

 small. Caudal slightly lunate. Anal inserted under 

 fifth dorsal ra}^, coterminous with the dorsal. Yentrals 

 coarsely serrate on outer and finely on inner edges. 

 Pectorals broad and short, fan-shaped. D. I-I-I, 11 to 

 13 ; A. 1, 9. Olivaceous, silvery below, thickly punctu- 

 late. MicROCEPHALUS. 5. 



ee. Dermal plates on side 2 or 3, strong, not imbedded. Mouth 

 large, maxillary reaching to below front of orbit. Mu- 

 cous pores none. Scapula forming a post-opercular plate. 

 All bones thicker and stronger than in micr^ocephalus. 

 Caudal peduncle compressed for its whole length. 

 D. I-I-I, 10 to 12 ; A. 1, 8. Wheatlandi. 6. 



dd. Ventral spines each with a distinct cusp at base. Lower jaw 

 the longer. Teeth in lower jaw stronger than in upper. 

 Diameter of orbit 3^ in head. Sides with 1 plates. In- 

 nominate bones almost reaching vent. Caudal peduncle 

 with a membranous carina. Caudal fin forked. Ventral 

 ^ in. finely serrate. Pectoral j in. Length of specimen 

 2^. D. I-I-I, 12 ; A. 1, 8. Uniformly grayish on back, 

 head and posterior halfof body ; abdomen yellowish. 



DiMIDIATUS. 7. 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



aaa. Sides entirely naked ; no bony dermal plates ; caudal pe- 

 duncle not keeled. Tip of first dorsal spine not reach- 

 ing second. Head 3 in length to base of caudal. Depth 

 5 in total length. D. I-I-I-l, 10; A. 1, 7. Olivaceous 

 brown, darker above ; sides spotted with black ; belly 

 yellowish. Williamsoxi. 8. 



3. GASTEROSTEUS. 

 3. G. aculeatus. 



Oastcrosteus in dorso tribus. Artedi, Gen. Pise, 52, 1738 (Europe); 

 Pennant, Arctic Zool., ii, 385, 1793 (No description). 



Oastei'osteus aculeatus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat. Ed. X, i, 295, 1758 (after 

 Arttdi); Fabricius, "Fauna Grcenlandica," 169, 1780 (Greenland); 

 Bloch, Syst. Nat., plate 53, fig. 3 ; Richardson, Fauna Bor. America, 

 55, 1836; Gill, Cat. Fish. East Coast N. A., 39, 1861 (Name only;; 

 Gill, Cat, Fish. East Coast N. A., 16, 1873 (Name only); Sauvage, 

 Revision des Epinoches, 9, 1874 (Bonneville, near Caen) ; Jordan, Cat. 

 Freshwater Fish. N, A., 443, 1878 (Name only); Goode & Bean, 

 Fish. Essex Co. Mass. Bay, 5, 1879 (Essex Co.); Bean, Proc. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., 1880, 77 (Woods Holl, Wilmington, Del. ); Jordan & Gil- 

 bert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 395, 1883 (East Coast); Stearns, Proc. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., 1883, 123 (Labrador). 



Oasterosteus bispinosus Walbaum, Artedi Ichth., 450, 1793 (after Pen- 

 nant). 



Oasterosteus biaculeatus Shaw, Zool., iv, 608, 1839 (after Pennant); 

 Mitchill, Trans. Lit. and Phil. Soc, 430, 1814 (Salt Water at New 

 York); Dekay, Nat. Hist. N. Y., 65, plate iii, fig. 8, 1842 (New 

 York); Storer, Syn. Fish. N. A., 63, 1846; H. R. Storer, Fish. 

 Labrador, 260, 1849 (Brooks emptying into Gut of Canso); Gill, Cat. 

 Fish. East Coast N. A., 39, 1861 (Name only); Putnam, Bull. Mus. 

 Comp. Zool., 11, 1863 ; Storer, Hist. Fish. Mass., 87, plate viii, fig. 

 213, 1867. 



Oasterosteus noveboraeensis Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Pois- 

 sons, iv, 502, 1829 (New York); Storer, Rept. Fish. Mass., 30, 1839 

 (Massachusetts); Ayres, Fish. Brookhaven, Long Island, 259, 1842 

 (Old Man's Harbor, Storer, Syn. Fish. N. A., 63, 1846 ; Gill, Cat. 

 Fish. East Coast N. A., 16, 1873 (Name only); Sauvage, Revision 

 des Epinoches, 11, 1874 (New York, Newfoundland, Boston); Jor- 

 dan, Man. Vert., Ed. i, 250, 1876 (Name only); Goode, Bull, U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., xiv, 53, 1879 (Name only). 



Oasterosteus aculeatus var. noveboraeensis Giinther, Cat, Fish, Brit. 

 Mus., i, 4, 1859 (Greenland). 



Oasterosteus w/g-e?* Cuvier, Rogue Animal, 76, 1829 (Based on 6iV/c?<Zea<'/s 

 of >Iitchill); Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poissons, iv, 503, 

 1829 (Newfoundland); Dekay, Nat. Hist. N. Y., 68, 1842 (New- 

 foundland); Storer, Syn, Fish, N. A., 63, 1846; Gill, Cat. Fish. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



East Coast N. A., 39, 1861 (Name only); Sauvage, Revision des 



' Epinoches, 13, 1874 (Newfoundland); Jordan, Cat. Fresh "Water 

 Fish. N. A., 442, 1878 (Name only). 



Oasterosteus irachurus Cuvier, RCgne Animal, 76, 1829 (Based in part 

 on Bloch); Storer, Syn. Fish. N. A., 62, 1846. 



Oasterosteus loricatus Reinhardt, Green, Fauna, 37, 1837 (Greenland); 

 Reinhardt, "Kong. Danske. Vidensk. Selsk. Nat. Math. Afh., vii, 

 114," 1838 ; Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 12, 1874 (Newfound- 

 land). 



Oasterosteus neoboracensis Dekay, Nat. Hist. N. Y., 66, plate vi, fig. 

 17, 1842 (New York). 



Oasterosteus dekayi Ayres, Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Cal. (based on biacule- 

 atus of Dekay). 



Oasterosteus suppositus Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 11, 1884 

 (after Dekay). 



3. G. aculeatus cataphractus. 



aster acanthus catapJiracius 'Psdla.s, ''Mem. Acad. Petersb., iii, 825," 

 1811. 



Oasterosteus cataphractus Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. 1881, 239 

 (Kodiak, Cook's Inlet, Sitka, Port Mulgrave, Shumagins, Unalaska, 

 Amchitka, Kyska Harbor, St. Paul, Bering Sea near Bering Isl.); 

 Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 270 (Pacific South of Bering 

 Strait, Puget Sound, San Francisco); Stejneger, Proc. U. 8. Nat. 

 Mus., 1883, 65 (Commander Island); Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 1888, 353 (Duncan's Bay, Brit. Col.); Bean, Cat. Fish, in Internat. 

 Fish. Exhib. London, 19, 1883 (St. Paul Isl.). 



Oasterosteus aculeatus var. cataphractus Jordan & Jouy, Proc. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., 1881, 1 (Puget Sound); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., 1881, 69 (San Francisco to Alaska). 



Oasterosteus aculeatus subsp. cataphractus Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. 

 N. A., 396, 1883 (West Coast). 



Oasterosteus obolarius Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poissons, iv, 

 500, 1829 (Kamtschatka) ; Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 12, 

 1874 (Name only). 



Oasterosteus inseulptus Richardson, Last Arctic Voy., 10, plate xxv, 

 fig. 1, 2, 3, 1854 (Northumberland and Puget Sound); Bean, Bull. 

 U. S. Nat. Mus., XV, 129, 1879 (Northumberland Sound). 



Oasterosteus serratus Ayres, Proc. Cal. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1855, 47 (San 

 Francisco); Girard, Pacific R. R. Survey, 88, 1859 (Shoal Water 

 Bay: San Francisco); Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 13, 1874 

 (San Francisco Bay); Jordan, Cat. Fresh Water Fish. N. A., 442, 

 1878 (Name only); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus. 1880, 

 452 (Puget Sound, San Francisco) ; Jordan & Jouy, Proc. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., 1881, 1 (Foot note). 




^44 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



Gasterostetis intermedius Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1856, 135 ; 

 Girard, Pacific R. R. Survey, 89, 1859 (Cape Flattery); Jordan, Cat. 

 Fresh-water Fish N. A., 443, 1878 (Name only). 



Habitat Northern Atlantic Coast of both Continents. Yar. 

 caiaphractus is found on the West Coast of North America, from 

 San Francisco to Alaska and Kamtschatka. 



This species differs from the others in having the whole sides 

 covered with (28-30) bony plates. 



The hiaculeatus of Mitchill possesses the (33) plates charac- 

 izing the aculeatus and otherwise agrees with the latter; the 

 slight variation in the number of lateral plates may perhaps 

 arise from a different manner of counting them. 



The bispinosus of Walbaum and biaculeatus of Shaw are alike 

 based on Pennant. The description given by the latter author is 

 of very little importance, but the probabilities all favor that the 

 species he had in mind was Gasterosteus aculeatus. 



The 7ioveboracensis of Cuvier and Valenciennes is said to 

 differ from aculeatus in the position of the lateral line and in the 

 stronger caudal keel. Neither of these features is likely to be 

 of specific value, and I therefore place it in the synonymy of 

 aculeatus. 



The niger of Cuvier is based on the biaculeatus of Mitchill, 

 which is aculeatus. The trachurus of the same author has the 

 sides completely covered with plates, and is, of course, the 

 ordinary European form of aculeatus. 



The suppositus of Sauvage is a supposed new species described 

 by Deka}'^ as neoboracensis, but the neoboracensis of Dekay is 

 identical with the noveboracensis of Cuvier and Valenciennes, 

 and suppositus is therefore a synonym of aculeatus. The figure 

 of Dekay has lateral plates extending from the post-pectoral 

 plate to the caudal, but as this differs from the nature of the 

 armature of this group, and as Dekay does not mention the 

 naked area about the ventral region and gives the number of the 

 plates as 30 to 33, these discrepancies must be due to a mistake 

 of the artist. 



The Gasterosteus texanus of Sauvage is somewhat different. 

 It has eleven plates extending to the second ray of the soft 

 dorsal ; thence to the last ray, the body is naked, the peduncle 

 being again mailed and strongly keeled. As no sticklebacks 

 are found much south of the Great Lake region, it is very prob- 

 able that the type of G. texanus did not come from Texas. At 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



present I place texanus in the synonymy of aculeatus, the pecu- 

 liarities above mentioned being perhaps due to mutilation. 



The many specimens examined by me are from Wilmington, 

 Delaware, and from Woods Holl, Massachusetts. 



The var. cataphractus differs from aculeatus in its deeper and 

 shorter form. Northern specimens are larger and more robust 

 than those found further south, and it is not likely that with a large 

 series any tangible permanent differences could be maintained. 



The names cataphractus and obolarius were given to Alaskan 

 specimens ; the insculptus from the Arctic is not essentially 

 different, and the serratus of Ayres and intermedius of Girard, 

 from further south, are also certainly the same. 



The large collections made by Jordan and Gilbert of the West 

 Coast of the U. S., show conclusively that not more than two 

 distinct forms of Sticklebacks, cataphractus and microcephalus, 

 exist on that coast. 



4. Gasterosteus atkinsii. 



Gasterosteus atkinsii Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1879, 67 (Schoodic 

 Lakes); Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fisli. N. A., 395, 1883 (Copied). 



Habitat. Schoodic Lakes, Maine. 



This species is characterized by the presence of 15 lateral 

 plates ; it is therefore intermediate between the full armed 

 aculeatus and the partly mailed gymnurus, etc. The species is 

 known to me from the description of Bean (loc. cit.). This 

 description indicates some affinity with the European Gasteros- 

 teus semiarmatus, which has also 14 (12 to 15) plates. 



5. Gasterosteus microcephalus. 



Oasterosteus microcephalus Girard, Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1854, 

 133; Girard, Pacific R. R. Survey, 91, 1859 (Tidare Valley); Sau- 

 vage, Revision des Epinoches, 23, 1874 (Tulare Valley); Joi"dan, Cat. 

 Fresh-water Fish N. A., 443, 1878 ^Name only); Jordan & Gilbert, 

 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mas., 1880, 453 (Puget Sound ; San Francisco ; 

 ]\Ionterey Bay ; San Pedro); Jordan & Jouy, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 1881, 1 (San Francisco); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 1881, 69 (Los Angeles to Puget Sound); Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. 

 Mus., 1881, 240 (Piseco Lake, Sitka; St. Paul, Kodiak; Chirikoff 

 Isl. ; Iliuliuk Unalaska); Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 370 

 (Pacific, south of Bering Strait; Puget Sound; San Francisco); 

 Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 395, 1882 ; Rosa Smith, Proc. 

 U. S. Nat. Mus., 1883, 217 (Name only); Rosa Smith, Proc. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., 1883, 333 (Todos Santos Bay); Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. 

 Mus., 1883, 353 (Mountain Lake, Alaska); Bean, Cat. Fish, in 

 Internat. Fish. Ex. London, 19, 1883 (St. Paul, Kodiak). 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



Giisterosteus plebeins Giranl, "Proc. Ao. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1854, 147;" 



Girarrl, Pacific R. R. Survey, 86, 1859 (San Francisco ; San Jose ; 



Petaluma) ; Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 18, 1874 (Petaluma) ; 



Jordan, Cat. Fresh-water Fish. N. A., 442, 1878 (Name only). 

 Gasterosiei/x inopinatus Girard, " Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1854, 147;" 



Girard, Pacific R. R. Survey, 90, 1859 ^Presidio); Sauvage, Revision 



des Epinoches, 19, plate i, fig. 4, 1874 (Presidio Creek, Cal.j; 



Jordan, Cat. Fresh-water Fish N. A., 443, 1878 (Name only). 

 Gasterosteus pugetti Girard, "Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1856, 135;" 



Girard, Pacific R. R. Survey, 92 and 354, 1859 (Puget Sound); 



Jordan, Cat. Fresh-water Fish N. A., 442, 1878 (Name only). 



Habitat. Pacific Coast North America, from Bering Strait 

 south to Todos Santos Bay. Ascends rivers. 



This species differs from dimidiatus in having no cusp at base of 

 ventrals and no caudal keel ; it differs from wheatlandi in haA'ing 

 all its bones much weaker and in the arrangement of the mucous 

 lucres about the head. 



The collection of Jordan and Gilbert shows that all naked- 

 tailed Sticklebacks {microcephalus, plebeius, inopinatus and 

 pugetti) belong to one species. 



It is possible, as several writers have affirmed, that all these 

 naked-tailed Sticklebacks {gymnurus, mici^ocephalus, ivheatlandi, 

 williamsoni) are simple varieties of the ordinary G. acideatus. 

 It seems to me that the peculiarities of the Californian form are 

 so constant that we may regard this one at least as presenting 

 a distinct species. Of G. wheatlandi and gymnurus I am not so 

 certain, but I have not yet seen any distinctly intermediate 

 forms, although all these types, like all other Sticklebacks, are 

 subject to much individual variation. The characters given in 

 the analysis above are to be regarded as simply provisional, as 

 representing the differences shown by the material at my disposal. 



The specimens examined by me are from San Diego, Cal. 



6. Gasterosteus wheatlandi. 



Gasterosteus wheatlandi Putnam, "Proc. Essex Inst., v. 4, 1867;" 



Storer, Hist. Fish. Mass., 354, 1867 (Nahant). 

 Gasterosteus trachurus Goode & Bean, Fishes of Essex Co. and Mass. 



Bay, 5, 1879 (Nahant, not G. trachurus of G\i\\er). 



Habitat. East Coast United States, northward. 



This species difiers from G. microcephalus in having stronger 

 surface bones, no mucous pores about the head, and the caudal 

 peduncle compressed. 



The specimens examined by me are from the coast of Massa- 

 chusetts. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 24t 



7. Gasterosteus dimidiatus. 



Gasterosteus biaculeatus Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat Poissons, 

 iv, 503, 1829 (Newfoundland, not O. biaculeatus of Shaw); Giinther, 

 Cat. Fish. Brit. Mas., i, 5. 1859 (Coast Newfoundland and Labra- 

 dor); Gill, Cat. Fish. East Coast N. A., 16, 1873 (Name only); 

 Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 21, 1874 (Newfoundland); Jordan, 

 Cat. Fish. N. A., 442, 1878 (Name only); Jordan & Gilbert, 8yn. 

 Fish. N. A., 395, 1883 ; Stearns, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1883, 123 

 (Labrador). 



Gasterosteus dimidiatus Reinhardt, Green. Faun. 37, 1837 (Greenland); 

 Reinhardt, "Kong. Dansk. Vidensk. Selsk. Nat. og. Math. Afhand. 

 vii, 193," 1838; Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 28, 1874 (Name 

 only). 



Gasterosteus aculeatus var. dimidiatus Gill, Cat. Fish. East Coast N. 

 A., 39, 18G1 (Name only). 



Gasterosteus cimeri (Girard MSS.) Storer, H. R. Fish. Nova Scotia and 

 Labradoi-, 254, plate vii, fig. 1, 1849 (Bras d'Or, Red Bay). 



Habitat East Coast North America, northward. 



This species differs from its nearest relations in having a cusi^ 

 at the base of the ventrals and a fleshy caudal carina. 



The name biaculeatus cannot be retained for this species, as it 

 was originally based on a description of Pennant which appar- 

 ently refers to G. aculeatus. 



I have examined no specimens of this species, and I am not 

 sure that it diffei'S in any important respect from the naked tailed 

 sticklebacks (G. gi/mnurus Cuvier = G. leiurus Cuv. and Yal.) 

 of Europe. 



8. Gasterosteus williamsoni. 



Gasterosteus williatnsoni Girard, "Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 133," 

 1854 (Williamson Pass); Girard, Pacific R. R. Survey, 93, 1859 

 (Williamson Pass); Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 25, 1874; 

 Jordan, Cat. Fresh Water Fish. N. A., 441, 1878 ; Jordan & Gilbert, 

 Syn. Fish. N. A., 393, 1883; Rosa Smith, Proc.U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 1883, 217 (Artesian well at San Bernardino). 



Eucalia williamsoni Jordan & Copeland, Checklist Fresh Water Fish. 

 N. A., 141, 1876. 



Habitat. Streams of California. 



This species differs from the other species of this genus in 

 having no lateral plates. Miss Rosa Smith records one from an 

 artesian well in California and pronounces it a true Gasterosteus 

 and not a Eucalia. 



The species is known to me from Girard 's description in the 

 Pacific R. R. Survey, and from the account given by Miss Smith. 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



4. APELTES. 

 Apdten Dekay, Nat. Hist. N. Y., 67, 1842 (quadracus no description). 

 Apelte$ .Jordan, Man. Vert., 249, 1876 (Characterized). 



This geuus is distinguished by the form and position of the 

 innominate bones, these being separated and forming subdermal 

 spines on the outer edges of the abdomen. The pubic bones are 

 small and weak, not visible on surface. It is a more sharply de- 

 fined group than Eucalia or Pygosleus and its single species has 

 shown no important variation. 



Analysis of Species of Apeltes. 



a. Trunk oblong ; head pointed ; caudal peduncle slender, not 

 keeled. Mouth small, horizontal ; maxillary not reaching 

 to eye ; teeth slender, in a single series. No bon}^ dermal 

 plates along sides. Scapula forming a small granulated post- 

 opercular plate. Innominate bones wide apart ; the area 

 between them flat so that a section of the fish is triangular. 

 Gill membrane broadly united to the isthmus. Free dorsal 

 spines divergent. The spines slender, pointed, slightly 

 serrate. Distance between first and third spine much less 

 than that between third and fourth ; the first extending 

 beyond base of third. Caudal long, narrow ; anal similar 

 to soft dorsal and coterminous with it ; its spine under third 

 ray of dorsal. Ventral spines strong, subterete ; serrate on 

 both edges and covered by skin to near tip. When ventral 

 spines are set they point almost sidewise, when depressed 

 they lie along inside of innominate bones. Quadracus. 9. 



9. Apeltes quadracus. 



Gasterosfeus quadracm Mitchill, Trans. Lit. and Phil. Soc, i, 430, 1814 ; 

 Cuvier & Valenciennes, iv, 504. 1829 (Newfoundland) ; Storer, Rept. 

 Fishes Mass., 31, 1839 (Salem); Dekay, Nat. Hist. N. Y., 67, plate vi, 

 fig. 18, 1843 (New York); Storer, Syn., 63, 1846 ; Baird, Fish, of N. 

 Jersey Coast, 14, 1855 (Salt Ponds of New .Jersey); Storer, "Mem. 

 Am. Ac. New Series, ii, 315 ;" Storer, Fish. Mass., 89, plate viii, fig. 

 4, 1867 (Massachusetts); Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., i, 7, 1859 

 (copied); Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 27, 1874 (copied). 

 Apeltes quadracus Putnam, " Proc. Essex lust., 1855, 148," Brevoort in 

 Gill's Cat. Fish. East Coast N. A., 89, 1861 (Name only); Gill, Cat. 

 Fish. East Coast N. A., 16, 1873 (Name only); Jordan, Man. Vert. 

 Ed., i, 249, 1876 (copied); Jordan & Copeland, Checklist Fresh Water 

 Fish. N. A., 141, 1876 (East Coast); Jordan, Cat. Frtsh Water Fish. 

 N. A., 441, 1878 (Name only); Goode & Bean, Fish. Essex Co. and 

 Mass. Bay, 5, 1879 (Salem and vicinity); Goode, Bull, U. S. Nat. 

 Mus., xiv, 54, 1879 (Name only); Goode, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxi, 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 249 



31, 1880 (Name only); Bean. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1880, 77 (Woods 



HoU, Noank); Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 396, 1883. 

 Oasterosteus apeltcs Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. des Poiss., iv, 



505, 1829 (No locality); Storer, Kept. Fish. Mass., 31, 1839 (Salem); 



Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 26, plate i, fig. 13, 1874 (New 



York). 

 Oasterosteus millepunctatus Ayres, Boston Journ. Nat. Hist., 259 and 



294, 1842 (Old Man's Harbor); Brevoort in Gill's Cat. Fish., East 



Coast N. A., 39, 1861 (Name only); Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 



27, 1874 (copied). 



Habitat. Atlantic Coast of North America ; Northward. 



This species is easily distinguished by the separation of the 

 innominate bones and by the four divergent dorsal spines. 



The apeltes of Cuvier and "Valenciennes does not differ from 

 the quadracus of Mitchill. 



The millipunctatus of Ayres is also identical with the quadra- 

 cus of Mitchill. 



The numerous specimens examined by me are from Woods 

 Holl, Massachusetts. 



5. SPINACHIA. 



Spinachia Fleming, "Hist. Brit. Animals, 219," 1828 (spinachia). 

 Polyeanthus Swainson, Fishes 175 and 242, 1839 {spinachia). 

 Oastrcea Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 7, 1876 {spinachia). 



This genus differs from the others in the prolongation of the 

 snout which approaches in form the snout of Aulorhynchus and 

 Fistularia. The innominate bones are as in Apeltes ; there are 

 about 15 free dorsal spines. 



Analysis of the Species of Spinachia. 



a. Snout prolonged ; dorsal spines about 15; dermal plates, 40 ; 

 depth 10 in length ; head about 4 ; a carina running entire 

 length of lateral line ; body five-sided ; tail four-sided. Ver- 

 tebra 18 + 23 ; D. XV, 6 or 7 ; ventral, i, 2 ; A. I, 6 or 7. 



Spinachia. 10. 

 10. Spinachia spinachia, 



Crtisterosteus spinacJiia Linnseus, Syst. Nat. Ed. X., 296, 1758 (based on 

 Artedi) (and of authors generally). 



Oastraa spinachia Sauvage, Revision des Epinoches, 36, 1876 (New- 

 foundland). 



Habitat. North Atlantic on both continents. 

 This species has been but once ascribed to America. Sauvage 

 notes a specimen in the Museum at Paris which he said to be 

 17 




250 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



[1886. 



from Newfoundland. This record needs verification, and is prob- 

 ably the result of an error in labeling. 



Comparative Measurements in Hundreds of Length to Base 



OF Caudal. 



Depth of Body 



Caudal Peduncle, . . . . 



Length of Head, 



Interorbital space, 



Snout, 



Operculum, . . ' 



Orbit, 



First Dorsal Spine from Snout,. 



Height, 



Antecedent Spine, 



First ray, 



Last ray, 



Anal from Snout, 



Height of Spine 



First ray, 



Last ray, ........ 



Caudal, 



Pectoral from Snout, . . . . 



Length, 



Ventral from Snout, . . . 

 Length, ....'.... 

 Innominate bones 





17 



18 



25 



4 



8 



27 

 6 



30 



c 



eft 



c 

 o 



o3 

 be 







o 

 o 



30 

 10 

 34 



8 

 42 



15 

 17 



39 

 15 

 44 



14 





26 

 14 

 32 



7 



11 

 9 



40 

 9 

 3 



14 



70 



2 



12 



15 

 17 



3S 



17 

 45 

 13 



- 

 O 



a 



s 



32 

 20 

 25 



7 

 30 

 11 



58 

 8 



16 



29 

 17 

 33 

 16 



List of Nominal Species of Gasterosteid^, Arranged in 

 Chronological Order, with Identification. 



(Tenable Specific Names are In Italics.) 



Nominal Species. Date, 



Gasterosteus aculeatus Linnaeus, 1758, 



Ga.&teTOstevLS pun(/itius Linnaeus, 1758, 



Gasterosteus spinachia Linnseus, 1758, 



Gasterosteus pungitius Walbaum, 1792, 



Gasterosteus bispinosus Walbaum, 1792, 



Gasterosteus cataphracius Pallas, 1811, 



Identification. 



Gastrosteus aculeatus. 

 Pygostens pungitius. 

 Spinachia spinachia. 

 Pygosteus pungitius. 

 Gasterosteus aculeatus. 

 Gasterosteus cataphractus. 




1886.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



251 



Nominal Species. Date. 



Gasterosteus quadracus Mitchill, 1814, 



Gasterosteus niger Cuvier, 1829, 



Gasterosteus trachurus Cuvier, 1829, 



Gasterosteus obolarius Guv. & Val., 1829, 

 Gasterosteus noveboracensisCuv. & Val., 1829, 



Gasterosteus biaculeatus Cuv. & Val. 1829, 



Gasterosteus apeltes Cuv. & Val. 1829, 



Gasterosteus occidentalis Cuv. & Val. 1829, 



Gasterosteus coucinnus Richardson, 1836, 



Gasterosteus mainensis Storer, 1837, 



Gasterosteus loricatus Reinhardt, 1837, 



Gasterosteus dimitiatus Reinhardt, 1837, 



Gasterosteus biaculeatus Shaw, 1839, 



Gasterosteus t/ico/istens Kirtland, 1841, 



Gasterosteus millepunctatus Ay res, 1842, 



Gasterosteus cuvieri Girard, 1849, 



Gasterosteus nebulosus Agassiz, 1850, 



Gasterosteus de kayi Agassiz, 1850, 



Gasterosteus ^j^grmcEWs Agassiz, 1850, 



Gasterosteus insculptus Richardson, 1854, 



Gasterosteus mierocephalus Girard, 1 854, 



Gasterosteus williamsoni Girard, 1854, 



Gasterosteus plebeius Girard, 1854, 



Gasterosteus inopinatus Girard, 1854, 



Gasterosteus serratus Ayres, 1855, 



Gasterosteus intermedins Girard, 1856, 



Gasterosteus pugetti Girard, 1856, 



Gasterosteus atkinsii Bean, 1859, 



Gasterosteus micropus Cope, 1865, 



Gasterosteus wheatlandi Putnam, 1867, 



Gasterosteus suppositus Sauvage, 1874, 



Gasterostea blanchardi Sauvage, 1874, 



Gasterosteus globiceps Sauvage, 1874, 



Eucalia cayuga Jordan, 1876, 



Gasterosteus trachurus Goode & Bean, 1879, 



Gasterosteus hrachypoda Bean, 1879, 



Identification. 

 Apeltes quadracus. 

 Gasterosteus aculeatus. 

 Gasterosteus aculeatus. 

 Gasterosteus cataphractus. 

 Gasterosteus aculeatus. 

 Gasterosteus dimidiatus. 

 Apeltes quadracus. 

 Pygosteus pungitius. 

 Pygosteus pungitius. 

 Pygosteus pungitius. 

 Gasterosteus aculeatus. 

 Gasterosteus dimidiatus. 

 Gasterosteus aculeatus, 

 Eucalia inconstans. 

 Apeltes quadracus. 

 Gasterosteus dimidiatus. 

 Pygosteus ijungitius. 

 Pygosteus pungitius. 

 Eucalia inconstans. 

 Gasterosteus cataphractus. 

 Gasterosteus mierocephalus. 

 Gasterosteus vs^illiamsoni. 

 Gasterosteus mierocephalus. 

 Gasterosteus mierocephalus. 

 Gasterosteus cataphractus. 

 Gasterosteus cataphractus. 

 Gasterosteus microcei)halus. 

 Gasterosteus atkinsii. 

 Eucalia inconstans. 

 Gasterosteus wheatlandi. 

 Gasterosteus aculeatus. 

 Pygosteus pungitius. 

 Eucalia inconstans. 

 Eucalia cayuga. 

 Gasterosteus wheatlandi, 

 Pygosteus brachypoda. 



Recapitulation. 



In this review I have admitted 10 species and 5 genera of Gas- 

 terosteidae as valid. Below I give a list of the species. The gen- 

 eral distribution of the species is indicated by the letters A. 

 (America); E, (Europe); W. (West Coast of North America); P. 

 (East Coast North America and Greenland); G. (Great Lake Re- 

 gion and Northward); U. (Western Slope of Rocky Mountains;, 




252 proceedings op the academy of [1886. 



Family GASTEROSTEIDJE. 



Genus 1. PYGOSTEUS Brevoort. 



1. Pygosteus pungitius Linnaeus (E. A.)- fP. Gr.). 



1 a. Pygosteus pungitius brachypoda (W. U.). (Unknown to me). 



Genus 2. ETJCALIA Jordan. 



2. Eucalia inconstans Kirtland (G. E). 



2 a, Eucalia inconstans cayuga Jordan (G.). (Variety of doubtful value). 



2 b. Eucalia inconstans pygmma Agassiz (Unknown to me ; characters 



assigned perhaps erroneous). 



Genus 3. GASTEROSTETIS Liuuwus. 



3. Gasterosteus aculeatus (E. A.) (P.). 



3 a. Gasterosteus aculeatus cataphractus Pallas (W.). (Variety of doubtful 



value). 



4. Gasterosteus atkinsti Bean (P.). (Unknown to me ; perhaps local var. 



of aculeatus). 



5. Gasterosteus microcepJialus Girard (W.). (Possibly variety of acZea^ws). 



6. Gasterosteus wheatlandl Putnam (P.). (Perhaps var. of aculeatus). 



7. Gasterosteus dimidiatus Reinhardt (P.). (Unknown to me ; perhaps 



identical with G, gymnurus). 



8. Gasterosteus williamsoni Girard (U.). (Possibly an extreme vai'iety of 



microcephalus or aculeatus). 



Genus 4. APELTES DeKay. 



9. Apeltes quadracus Mitchill (P.). 



Genus 3. SPINACHIA Fleming. 



10. SpinacMa spinachialAvinddVis, (E. P.). (Probably not American). 




1886.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 253 



May 4. 



Mr. Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., in the chair. 

 Twenty-pight persons present. 



The Railway Gutting at Graifs Ferry Road. Mr. Aubrey H. 

 Smith remarked that the Schuylkill River, as is well known, 

 makes a curve to the westward just below the TJ. S. Arsenal 

 grounds, returning to its southwardly course at Harmar's wharf, 

 nearly a mile below. The new iron bridge of the Baltimore and 

 Ohio R. R. Co. spans the river obliquely from the northern side 

 of Bartram's Garden to Harmar's at the height of about 23 feet 

 above tide. The tract of land half enclosed by the river is ele- 

 vated about 50 feet above tide and is composed of the same 

 diluvial gravels and clays which form the plain on which stands 

 the old city of Philadelphia. 



The railroad proceeds from the bridge by a deep cut of half a 

 mile transversely to the streets on the city plan northeastwardly 

 to the low grounds on the river below the arsenal, thus forming 

 a chord to the arc of the river bend. The cut is a deep one, as 

 the railroad company was required by its agreement with the city 

 to construct its line beneath Wharton Street and the Gray's Ferry 

 Road. 



Soon after leaving the bridge the cutting enters the plateau and 

 is soon twenty-five or more feet deep. The excavation is through 

 yellow cla3'^s and river gravels to the depth of about twenty -five 

 feet. It then discloses a compact bed of dark blue clay, sharply 

 defined under the gravel, apparently a river deposit. Its thick- 

 ness is not exactly known but it exceeds six feet. This bed of 

 blue clay extends from just bej'ond the Harmar house to the 

 Gray's Ferry Road, a distance of 500 or 600 yards. 



It is apparently thickest near the Harmar house, but thins out 

 at the Gray's Ferry Road, where the excavations show it to be 

 only about four feet thick and to rest uj^on a bed of yellow gravel 

 or sand. It does not appear at all northeast of the Gray's Ferry 

 Road. 



Some observations and inquiry in November, 1885, for organic 

 remains resulted, so far as he was aware, only in showing that 

 the blue clay contains numerous genera and species of diatoms 

 and several species of recent woods. The observations on the 

 diatoms are due to Professor Koenig. The gravels and cla3^s 

 above the blue clay were barren of all organic forms. The woods 

 then obtained were apparently birch, maple or oak, and were 

 neither mineralized or decomposed. They came from the dump 

 heap where the excavated clay was deposited by the workmen, 

 but are doubtless from the blue clay bed. 




254 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[1886. 



The specimen of wood exhibited to the Academy to-night is of 

 some coniferous tree, probably a white cedar, Gupressus thyoides. 

 This tree, until verj^ I'ccently, was common along the Schuylkill 

 and Delaware, and isolated specimens may still exist there. The 

 wood now shown is in no degree mineralized and but slightly 

 decomposed. It came from a log which lies in the blue clay just 

 north of the Wharton Street Bridge and is still to be seen there. 

 No shells, so far as he knew, have been found in the excavation, 

 but more careful search in this direction might be rewarded. 



The blue clay bed appears to mark one of the periods of quies- 

 cence in the glacial action which, in its torrential course, scooped 

 out the valleys of the Schuylkill and Delaware and afterwards 

 filled them up again at the margin of tide-water. It harmonizes 

 itself with similar beds which have been observed at several points 

 along the shores of the rivers notably at the Lazaretto and 

 Printz Hall, Tinicum, and near Camden, N. J. 



There were probably several of these periods of comparative 

 rest in the course of the retirement of the ice from northern 

 Pennsylvania. 



The artesian well of Mr. Black, at Black's Island, below Fort 

 Mifflin, which is 456 feet deep, disclosed at the depth of 100 feet 

 a bed of white beach sand 47 feet in thickness, as well as many 

 of gravel and clay. The decomposed gneiss rock was reached at 

 the depth of 240 feet or thereabouts. 



Section of the strata of Black's Island, Delaware River below 

 Fort Mifflin, from the artesian well of E. N. Black, Esq. : 



Blue alluvium, . 



Sand, .... 



Blue alluvium, . 



Gravel, .... 



White clay, 



Beach sand, 



Gravel, .... 



Clay, .... 



Red gravel, 



White gravel and sand, 



Beach sand and gravel, 



Decomposed gneiss (mica), 



Gneiss rock, 



456 feet. 



May 11. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty -two persons present. 



Fatal Gases of Trichiniasis. The President read a letter from 

 Mr. Eugene A. Rah, of Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, giving an ac- 

 count of recent cases of fatal trichiniasis arising from imperfectly 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



cooked, measly pork, which had been eaten for a week from 

 January 6, 1886. The family consisted of a man and wife and 

 two daughters, aged respectively five and thirteen years. The 

 older daughter and the mother, aged 37 years, have died ; the 

 other members of the family, although affected, are recovering. 

 In the mother, who died March 8, the deltoid muscle showed, 

 under the microscope, three to nine ; the rectus femoris, two to 

 six, and the diaphragm, one to three trichinae, in a field view 

 about one-fifth of an inch in diameter. In the daughter, who 

 died February 19, trichina? were found imbedded in the deltoid 

 muscle, in some portions as many as forty-two being counted on 

 the field of view under the microscope. No other portions of 

 the daughter were examined, but the lungs, heart, liver, spleen 

 and kidnej^s of the mother were found to be unaffected. 



The pork used was home-raised, and, according to the owner, 

 the animal did not at any time show signs of ill health. An 

 examination of two other hogs raised on the premises was made, 

 but no trichinae were found. As usual in such cases, the meat 

 was imperfectly cooked or fried, the tenderloin, sausage meat, 

 spare ribs, etc., all being freely used. For several days while in 

 water the human trichinae showed signs of life, coiling and 

 uncoiling when freed from the muscular fibre, but the stage of 

 development found in the pork showed no activity under the same 

 conditions. The communication is accompanied by excellent 

 photographs of portions of human muscle and of the affected 

 pork, showing a number of the worms imbedded in the tissue. 



May 18. 

 Mr. Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., in the chair. 

 Seventeen persons present. 



May 25. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Nineteen persons present. 



Charles P. Sherman was elected a member. 



The following was ordered to be printed : 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



A REVISION OF THE AMERICAN SPECIES OF THE GENUS GERRES. 

 BY BARTON W, EVERMANN AND SETH E. MEEK. 



In the summer of 1883 we published in the Proceedings of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, pp. 116 to 124, a 

 *' Review of the Species of Gerres found in American Waters." 

 In December of the same year, Dr. Jordan made a large collection 

 of the Atlantic species of this genus at Cedar Keys, Key West 

 and Havana. A large portion of this collection is now in the 

 Museum of the Indiana University, and constitutes the material 

 upon which the present paper is based. 



The present collections contain numerous specimens of species 

 not before examined by us, and, in the light of the new relation- 

 ships which an examination of them discloses, we have thought 

 it best to attempt an entire revision of the genus. We have 

 therefore collected all the synonymy up to date, made an analyt- 

 ical key by which the species can be determined, and given a 

 detailed description of all the species now before us. To the 

 account of the Pacific Coast species, as given in the former 

 paper, we have now nothing to add, as the very extensive collec- 

 tion of them studied by us has been since mostly destroj^ed by 

 fire. 



We take this opportunity of acknowledging our indebtedness 

 to Dr. Jordan for the use of his library, and for other aids. 



Genus GERRES Cuvier. 



Oerrcs Cuvier. Regne Animal, ed. 2, ii, 104, 1829 (r/iombeus, etc.). 

 Catoclmnum Cantor. Cat. Malayan Fishes, 55, 1850. (Proposed for 



Oerres Cuv., regarded by Cantor as preoccupied by Qerris Fabricius). 

 Diapterus UauzsLni. Nov. Comment. Acad. Bonom., 1841 {plumieri, etc.). 

 Eucinostomus Baird and Girard. Ninth Smithsonian Report, 1855, 20 



(argenteus = gula). 

 Synistius Gill. Pioc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1862, 238 (longirostris). 

 Mojarra Poey. Enum. Pise. Cub., 50, 1875 {rhombea = olistJiostoma). 



Analysis of Species of Gerres. 



a. Preorbital and preopercle entire ; body elongate, the depth 

 2^ to 4 in length to base of caudal (Eucinostomus Baird 

 and Girard). 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES Of PHILADELPHIA. 257 



6. Premaxillary groove naked. 

 c. Anal rays II, 8 ; body very elongate, its depth 3f in its 

 length ; eye 2f in head. Lefroyi. 1. 



cc. Anal rays III, 7. 

 d. Premaxillary groove narrow, linear. 

 e. Eye very large, its diameter much greater than length of 

 snout, 2 in length of head. Exposed portion of 

 maxillary small, triangular. Dowi. 2. 



ee. Eye small, more than 3 in head, its diameter about equal 

 to length of snout. Exposed portion of maxillary 

 triangular in front, oblong behind. 

 /. Body elongate, the back little elevated ; greatest depth 

 3j to 3^ in length. Anal spines small, the second 4^ 

 in length of head. Pseudogula. 3. 



ff. Bod}' more compressed, deeper, the back more elevated ; 

 greatest depth 2f in length. Anal spines larger, the 

 second 3^ in length of head. Gracilis. 4. 



dd. Premaxillary groove broad, oval, naked. Body elevated, 

 compressed, its greatest depth 2| in its length. 

 g. Caudal fin shorter than head, sides without dark ver- 

 tical bars. Second anal spine short, 3 to 4 in head ; 

 ventrals short, little more than half the length of 

 head, their tips not reaching vent; dark punctula- 

 tions on body few or none ; upper part of spinous 

 dorsal becoming gi-adually blackish ; other fins 

 nearly plain ; axil faintly dusky. Californiensis. 5. 

 gg. Caudal fin longer than head. Sides with 7 to 9 dark 

 bluish vertical bars, about as broad as pupil. Anal 

 spines longer, the second 2f in length of head. 

 Ventrals longer, 1| in length of head, scarcel}' 

 reaching vent. Ginereus. 6. 



bb. Premaxillary groove scaled in front, forming a naked pit 

 behind. Depth 2| in length ; head 3 to B^ in length of 

 body. Second anal spine about 3^ in head. Gula. 7. 



aa. Preopercle distinctly entire. 

 h. Preorbital entire ; body without distinct dark streaks along 

 the rows of scales. {Moharra Poej'-). 

 i. Premaxillary groove broad, triangular or oval, and free from 

 scales. 




258 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



j. Body ovate, the outline somewhat regularly elliptical, 

 depth 2^ in length. Dorsal spines slender, but little 

 flexible, the second scarcely stronger than the third, 2 in 

 length of head. Second and third anal spines subequal, 

 2 1 in length of head ; second stronger than third. 



Aureolus. 8. 



jj. Body rhomboidal, short and deep, with angular outlines, 



the depth usually more than half the length ; spines long 



and slender. 



k. Anal rays III, 8 ; second dorsal spine | or more length ol 



head ; second anal spine more than half length of head 



Peruvianus. 9. 

 kh. Anal rays II, 9 ; second dorsal spine about length of 

 head ; second anal spine If in length of head. 



Bhombeus. 10. 

 ii. Premaxillary groove broad, oval, and covered with scales 

 (these sometimes deciduous in poorly preserved speci- 

 mens). Anal rays III, 8 ; second dorsal spine 1;^ in head ; 

 second anal spine If in head ; teeth rather long and 

 slender. OUsthostoma. 11. 



hh. Preorbital serrate, a distinct dark streak along each row of 

 scales on back and sides ; body rhomboidal, with angular 

 outlines; spines very strong; anal ra3'S III, 8 or 9. 

 (Gerres). 



I. Yentrals blackish ; upper margin of dorsal fin falcate ; 



depth 2^ in length ; scales 5-38-9. Brasilianus. 12. 



II. Yentrals pale. 



m. Spines moderate, the second dorsal spine f to | length 

 of head. 

 n. Pectorals long, reaching to front of anal ; caudal 

 longer than head ; lateral stripes numerous ; depth 

 nearly 2 in length. Lineatus. 13. 



nn. Pectorals short, barely reaching vent ; caudal shorter 

 than head ; lateral stripes few ; depth about 2| in 

 lenoth. Brevimanus. 14. 



mm. Spines very high, the second dorsal spine longer than 

 head ; second anal spine about equal to length of 

 head ; lateral stripes very distinct, about 12 in num- 

 ber; depth of body 2^ in length. Flumieri. 15. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHTA. 259 



1. Gerres lefroyi. 



Diapterus lefroyi Goode, Amer. Jour. Sci. and Arts, 123, 1874 ; Goode, 



Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1876, 39 (Bermudas). 

 Oerres lefroyi Giinther, Voyage Challenger, Fishes, 10, 1880 (name 



only); Evermann & Meek, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1883, 118; 



Jordan, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1884, 130 (Key West); Jordan and 



Swain, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1884, 233 (Cedar Keys); Jordan, Cat. 



Fish. N. A., 1883, 95. 

 Eurinostomus productus Poey, Enum. Pise. Cub., 55, 1875 (Havana); 



Poey, Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist. N. Y., 1876 (Havana). 



Habitat. Atlantic coast of tropical America ; West Indies; 

 Bermudas; Cedar Keys; Key West ; Havana. 



The specimens examined by us are from Havana (8 specimens), 

 Key West "(5 specimens), and Cedar Keys (1 specimen). In size 

 they range from 2 to 8^ inches in length. 



Head 3^ to 3^; depth 3|; scales 5-47-9. D. IX, 10. A. II, 8. 

 Body elongate, elliptical, not very strongly compressed ; back 

 little elevated; snout conical, not much pointed; mouth small, 

 end of maxillary I'eaching scarcely beyond vertical from anterior 

 margin of orbit, its length 3 in length of head, exposed portion 

 nearly triangular, its greatest width 2 in its length, which is 5 in 

 length of head. Top of head flattish. Premaxillary groove long, 

 linear and naked. Eye large, 2f in head ; snout 3^ in head, inter- 

 orbital area 3 in head. Gill-rakers weak, small, 7 or 8 below the 

 angle. Dorsal spines all weak and flexible, second and third sub- 

 equal, 5^ in length of head ; upper margin of the fin concave. 

 Second anal spine moderate, its length 4 in head. Least depth 

 of caudal peduncle 3| in length of head. 



Color silvery, darker above, everj'where with fine dusky punc- 

 tulations and traces of crossbars. Top of spinous dorsal black, 

 dorsal, anal, and caudal dusky. Yentrals and pectorals paler, 

 but with dusky punctulations ; axil dusky ; a dark spot on supra- 

 orbital ; snout dusky ; no distinct stripes along rows of scales. 



In form, size and color, this species resembles G. doivi, but is 

 readil}' distinguished from the latter by the presence of two anal 

 spines instead of three. This character is apparently a constant 

 one, observed in many specimens. 



2. Gerres dowi. 



Diapterus dowi Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1863, 162 (Panama). 



Genes doici Giinther, Fish. Ceutr. Amer., 448, 1866 (Description taken 

 from Gill); Steiudachner, Ichth. Beitriige, iv, 13, 1875 (No descrip- 

 tion), (Callao, Peru; Galapagos Islands); Jordan & Gilbert, Bull. 




2G0 f&OOEEDlNas OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



U. S. Fish Comm., 1881, 329 (Panama); Jordan & Gilbert, Bull. U. 

 S. Fish Comm., 1882, 111 (Panama); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. 

 S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 377 (Panama); Evermann & Meek, Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., 1883, 120 (Panama). 

 Gerres aprion Giinther, Fish, Centr. Amer., 391, 1866 (Name only) 

 (Panama). 



Habitat. Atlantic and Pacific coasts of tropical America ; 

 Galapagos Islands, Peru; Panama; Havana; Key "West. 



The specimens examined b^^ us are from Havana (2 specimens, 

 5| and 6 inches in length), and Kej' West (5 specimens, 3 to 6 

 inches in length). 



Head 3f ; depth 3 ; scales 5-45-10. 



Bodj- rather slender, compressed, elliptical, back littie elevated, 

 head flat, with a slight depression above front of orbit. Maxil- 

 lary triangular and small, the width at posterior end being ^ the 

 length, which is about ^ diameter of e3^e, also ^ length of second 

 dorsal spine. Preorbital and preopercle entire. Eye large, 2| 

 in head ; snout 3|-, and interorbital, 3^ in head. 



Second and third dorsal spines about equal, the third perhaps 

 slightly longest, 1^ in head, all weak and flexible. Second anal 

 spine relatively strong, third weaker but slightly longer, 2| in 

 head; base of anal 1| to 2^ in length of head. Least depth of 

 caudal peduncle 2 in head. Pectorals about | length of head, 

 their tips reaching vent. Yentrals If in head, reaching about | 

 distance to vent. Premaxillar3^ groove narrow, linear and naked, 

 and not extending quite to the vertical of centre of pupil. 



Color silvery with bluish reflections, darker above lateral line. 

 Tips of spinous dorsal black, ventrals dusky (lighter in Key 

 West specimens) ; a black supraorbital spot, caudal dusky, body 

 covered with very fine dark pimctulations. 



This species has not been hitherto recorded from the Atlantic. 



.". Gerres pseudogula. 



Eucinostomus pseudogtda Poey, Enum. Pise. Cub., 53, pi. i, 1875 

 (Havana). 



Gerres jonesi Giinther, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., iii, 1879, 150, 389 

 (Bermudas) ; Giinther, Voyage Challenger, Fishes, i, 10, 1880 

 (Bermudas) ; Evermann & Meek, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1883, 120 (Bermudas); Jordan, Cat. Fish. N. A., 1885, 95. 



Habitat. West Indies ; Bermudas ; Cuba. 

 We have examined eight specimens of this species, all from 

 Havana. They range from 2f to 7 inches in length. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



Head 3^ to 3^ ; depth S^ ; scales 5-49-9 ; D. IX-10; A. III-T. 



Body elongate, elliptical, not mucli compressed; back little 

 elevated ; profile evenly convex ; top of* head little convex ; 

 mouth rather small, end of maxillar}' reaching slightly past 

 vertical from front of orbit ; length of maxillary 3^ in length of 

 head, its exposed portion nearly triangular and about i length 

 of head, its greatest width ^ its greatest length. Preorbital 

 and preopercle entire. Snout not much pointed, conical ; cheeks 

 each with three rows of scales ; seven gill-rakers below the angle. 

 E3'^e 3^ in head, snout 3;^ in head ; interorbital area 3| in head. 

 Dorsal spines all weak and flexible. Second and third dorsal 

 spines subequal, 1^ in length of head. Base of anal 2 in length 

 of head, spines small, the second the stronger, its length 4^ in 

 length of head, about equal in length to third spine or slightly 

 the shorter. Least depth of caudal peduncle 3 in length of head. 



Tips of pectoral fins reaching vent, their length about 3| in 

 length of body. Ventrals 1^ in head, their tips reaching | dis- 

 tance to vent. Premaxillary grooves long, linear and free from 

 scales. 



Color greenish above, with bluish reflections, silvery below ; 

 snout blackish ; tips of spinous dorsal black ; pectorals pale, 

 dusky in axil. Yentrals and anal pale. Caudal reddish. 



This species has been sometimes confounded with Gerres 

 gracilis. It can easily be distinguished from the latter b}' its 

 more elongate form and its comparatively small anal spines. 



There seems to be no room for doubt of the identity of G. 

 jonesi \<[ii\i G. pseudogula. 



4. Gerres gracilis. 



Biapterus gracilis Gill, Pioc, Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1863, 246 (Cape 

 San Lucas). 



Gerres gracilis Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 374 

 (Guaymas); Jordon & Gilbert, Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 1881, 329 

 (Guaymas ; Mazatlan ; Panama); Jordan & Gilbert, Bull. U. S. Fish 

 Comm., 1882, 108 (Mazatlan; Panama); Jordan, Proc. U. S. Nat. 

 Mus., 1884, 130 (Key West); Jordan, Cat. Fish. N. A., 1885, 95. 



Oerres aprion Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., i, 358, 1859 (San Do- 

 mingo ; Jamaica ; West Indies ; South America); Giinther, Cat. Fish. 

 Brit. Mus., iv, 255, 1863 (San Domingo ; Jamaica ; Bahia); Bean & 

 Dresel, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1884, 154 (Jamaica) (not of Cuv. & 

 Val.). 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



Eucinostomus Iiarengulus Goode & Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1879, 



133 (Western Florida). 

 Diapterus harengnlus Goode & Beau, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1879, 339 



(Clear Water Harbor, Florida). 

 Oerres harengulus Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 584, 1883 (Pen- 



sacola, Florida); Beau & Dresel, Proc. U. S.Nat. Mus., 1884, 154 



(.Jamaica). 



Habitat. Atlantic and Pacific coasts of tropical America, and 

 the West Indies (Cape San Lucas ; San Domingo ; Jamaica ; 

 Havana; Bahia ; Western Florida; Panama; Guaymas; Mazat- 

 lan; Key West). 



The numerous specimens examined by us are from Havana and 

 Key West, and range from 1 to 7^ inches in length. Head 3^ ; 

 depth 2f to 2| ; scales 5-45-9 ; Dorsal IX-10 ; A. Ill-t. 



Body elliptical, compressed, back moderately elevated ; anterior 

 profile little convex, not very steep ; snout rather pointed, mouth 

 moderate, maxillary reaching almost to vertical from front of 

 orbit, its length 3 in length of head ; exposed portion of maxil- 

 lary triangular in front, oblong behind, its width 2 in its length, 

 which is 4| in length of head. Preorbital and preopercle entire. 

 Eye not very large, its diameter 3^ in length of head, snout 3i in 

 head. Premaxillary groove long, linear, and naked, Gill-rakers 

 small and weak, t below the angle. 



Dorsal spines weak and flexible, the longest 4| to 2y^o in head ; 

 anal spines rather short, the second the stronger, its length 3^ in 

 length of head ; ventral fins short, their tips reaching about half- 

 way to anal, their length If in head. 



Pectorals slender, their tips reaching about to vent; length of 

 pectorals about equal to head ; ventrals and caudal mostly covered 

 with small scales ; other fins naked, color in life silver}', greenish 

 above ; snout and upper part of caudal dusky ; spinous dorsal 

 punctate at base, usually abruptly black at tip ; the dark areas 

 are separated by a transparent horizontal bar (these markings 

 wanting in some specimens, perhaps females); soft dorsal punc- 

 tate ; caudal with a faint dusky margin ; ventrals pale. 



This species is very common at Kej' West and Havana. There 

 seems to be no difference between the " harengulus " of the East 

 Coast and the West Coast ^'gracilisy 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 263 



5. Gerres californiensis. 



Diapterus calif ornienm Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 18G2, 245 

 (Cape San Lucas). 



Gerres californiensis Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 

 274 (Guaymas); Jordan & Gilbert, Bull. U. S. Fish. Comni., 1881, 

 319 (Guaymas); Jordan & Gilbert, Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 1882, 

 108 (Mazatlan); Evermann & Meek, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1888, 120 (Guaymas ; Mazatlan); Jordan, Cat. Fislies N. A., 1885, 95. 



? Gerres gnla Steindachner, Ichth. Beitriige, iii, 60, 1875 (name only ; 

 nee Cuv. & Val.); (Magdalena Bay). 



Habitat. Pacific Coast of Mexico (Mazatlan ; Guaj^mas ; 

 Cape San Lucas). 



This species is certain!}^ close to G. cinereus, and it may 

 eventually prove to be a variety of the latter. 



6. Gerres cinereus. 



Tardus cinereus peltatus Catesby, Nat. Hist., pi. ii, fig. 2, 1750 

 (Florida Keys ; Bahamas). 



Mugil cinereus Walbaum, Artedi Piscium, 228, 1792 (After Catesby). 



Gerres cinei-eus Jordan & Gilbert, Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 1882, 108 

 (Mazatlan); Jordan & Gilbert, Syn, Fish. N. A., 935, 1883; Ever- 

 mann & Meek, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1883, 120 ; Jordan, Proc. 

 U. S. Nat. Mus., 1884, 130, 148 (Key West); Jordan, Proc. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., 1881, 194 (identification of Catesby's figure); Jordan, 

 Cat. Fishes N. A., 1885, 95. 



Gerres zebra Miiller & Troschel, Schomburgk Hist. Barbadoes, 668, 

 1848 (Barbadoes); Gimther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., i, 349, 1859 

 (copied); Gihather, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., iv, 254, 1862 (copied); 

 Steindachner, Ichthyol. Notizen, iv, ii, 1867 (Surinam); Steindachner, 

 Zur Fisch-Fauua des Magdalenen-Stromes, 9, 1878 (Rio Magdalena. 

 Identified with Gerres squamipinnis Giinther ; Jordan & Gilbert, 

 Bull. U. S. Fish. Comm., 1881, 329 (Mazatlan); Bean & Dresel, 

 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1884, 154 (Jamaica). 



Gerres aprion Cuvier, Regne Animal, ed. 2, 104, 1829 (Based on 

 Catesby) ; Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., 461, 1830 

 (Martinique). 



Diapterus aprion Voej, Enum. Pise. Cuba, 51, 1875 (Havana). 



Eucinostomus aprion Poey, Enum. Pise. Cuba, 328, 1877 (Havana). 



Gerres squamipin7iis Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., i, 349, 1859 

 (Jamaica; Guatemala); Gimther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., iv, 254, 

 18G2 (Jamaica; Guatemala); Steindachner, Ichthyol. Notizen, iv, 

 12, 1867 (Surinam); Gimther, Fish. Centr. Amer., 39, 18G9 (Jamaica; 

 Chiapam ; Panama). 



Eucinostomus zebra Poey, Enum. Pise. Cuba, 51, 1875 (Havana). 



Habitat. Both coasts of Tropical America, and the West 

 Indies (Havana ; Jamaica ; Chiapam ; Panama ; Guatemala ; 

 Martinique ; Bahamas ; Florida Keys ; Barbadoes ; Mazatlan.) 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



The specimens before us are from Key West and Havana. 

 They range from 6^ to 13 inches in length. This species seems 

 to reach a larger size than any of the others here mentioned. 



Head 3^ ; depth 2^ to ^ ; scales 6-45-10. 



Body compressed, elongate, back moderately elevated, the 

 dorsal profile being evenly convex. Mouth moderate, the maxil- 

 lary extending but slightly beyond the vertical at anterior margin 

 of orbit, its exposed portion triangular in form, and twice as long 

 as wide, its length being contained five times in that of the head. 



Preorbital and preopercle entire ; premaxillary groove broad 

 and free from scales ; gill-rakers weak, 7 below the angle. Eye 

 moderate, about 3^ in head ; snout 3:^, and interorbital space 3j, 

 in head. Distance from end of snout to dorsal fin 2^ in length 

 of body. Second dorsal spine longest, about 1^ in head, and not 

 much stronger than the others ; all the dorsal spines are weak 

 and flexible ; general outline of the upper margin of the spinous 

 dorsal falcate. Second and third anal spines subequal, second 

 2f to 2| in length of head, the pectorals scarcely reaching anal, 

 their length being contained three times in that of the body. 

 Ventrals contained If times in head, and scarcely reaching the vent. 



Color silvery with bluish reflections above. Sides with 7 or 8 

 broken, bluish vertical bars, about equaling pupil in width. No 

 dark stripes along the scales. Dorsal and caudal fins dusk^^ and 

 slightly so ; other fins pale, ventrals with a few dark punctula- 

 tions ; axil dark. 



7. Gerres gula. 



Oerres gula Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., vi, 464, 1830 

 (Martinique; Brazil); Jenyns, Zool. Beagle, Fishes, 58, 1843; 

 Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., i, 346, 1859 (Bahia ; San Domingo ; 

 Jamaica); Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., iv, 255, 1862 (Bahia; San 

 Domingo; Jamaica); Poey, Rep. Pise. Cub., 316, 1865 (Havana); 

 Goode, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mas., v, 1876, 39 (Bermudas) ; Jordan & 

 Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 934, 1883 ; Evermann & Meek, Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., 1883, 122 (Bermudas; Beaufort, N. C; Charleston, 

 S. C; Aspinwall ; Peusacola); Jordan, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 



1883, 289 (Notes on original type); Jordan, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus , 



1884, 130 (Key West); Jordan & Swain, Pioc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1884, 

 233 (Cedar Keys); Jordan, Cat. Fish. N. A., 1885, 95. 



Diapterus gula Poey, Syn. Pise. Cub., 323, 1868 (Havana). 



Eudnostomus argenteus Baird & Girard^ Ninth Smith. Rept., 1855, 345 

 (New Jersey Coast); Girard, U. S. andMex. Bd. Survey, Fishes, 17, 

 PI. ix, figs. 9-12, 1859 (Brazos Santiago, Indianola, and St. Joseph's 

 Island, Texas). 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



? Gerres argenteus Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., 25G, 1863 (Texas). 

 Eucinostomus gulula Poey, Enum. Pise. Cub., 54, PI, 2, 1875 (Havana). 

 Diapterus liomonymus Goode & Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1879, 340, 

 (Clear Water Harbor, Fla.). 



Habitat. Atlantic coast of America from New Jersey to Brazil, 

 and the West Indies. 



(New Jersey ; Beaufort, N. C. ; Charleston, S. C. ; Clear Water 

 Harbor, Fla.; Cedar Keys; Key West ; Brazos, Indianola, and 

 St. Joseph's Island, Texas ; Aspinwall ; Brazil; Bahia ; Martin- 

 ique; Jamaica, San Domingo ; Havana; Bermudas.) 



We have examined numerous specimens of this species from 

 Cedar Kej's, Key West, and Havana, varying in size from 1^ to 

 6^ inches in length. 



Head 3J ; depth 2|; D.IX, 10; A. Ill, 8; scales 5-42-9. 



Body elliptical, compressed, back moderately elevated, mouth 

 small ; end of maxillary reaching slightly past vertical from front 

 margin of orbit ; exposed portion of maxillary nearly oblong, its 

 width about 2 in its length, which is from 4 to 5 in the length of 

 the head. 



Preorbital and preopercle entire. Gill-rakers small and weak, 

 1 below the angle. Eye 3 in length of head, snout 3^ in head. 

 Interorbital area 3 in head. Premaxillary groove scaled in front, 

 the posterior part naked, forming a sort of pit ; longest dorsal 

 spine 1^ in head ; second anal spine shorter and stronger than 

 third, its length about 3^ in head ; ventrals reaching nearly to 

 vent ; their length If in length of head. Pectorals reaching front 

 of anal, their length about 3 in length of body. 



Color silvery, greenish, darker above; no distinct longitudinal 

 lines except in ver}' young ; upper margin of spinous dorsal more 

 or less black. 



Dorsal and anal fins dusky, other fins pale. 



The form of this species resembles that of G. gracilis^ but the 

 body is always less elongate than in the latter. The form of its 

 premaxillary groove differing from that of any other species, 

 aff"ords the best character for distinction. 



The many specimens of this species which we have examined 

 present no marked diff"erences or variations. They also agree 

 very well with the description and drawing of Encinostomus gulula 

 of Poey. 



We have no doubt of the identity of gula, argenteus^ gulula and 

 homonymus. 

 18 




266 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



8. Gerres aureolus. 



Oerres aureolus Jordan & Gilbert, Bull. U. S. Fish. Comm., 1881, 328 



(Panama); Jordan & Gilbert, Bull. U. S. Fish. Coram., 1882, 111 



(Panama); Everman & Meek, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1883, 123 



(Panama). 



Sabitat.B&j of Panama. Only the original type of this 



strongly marked species is yet known. 



9. Gerres peruvianus. 



Gerres peruvianus Cuvier fe Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., vi, 467, 

 1830 (Payta, Northern Peru); Lesson, Voyage Coquille, Poiss., 180, 

 1828 ; Jordan & Gilbert, Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 1881, 330 (Mazat- 

 lan; Panama); Jordan & Gilbert, Bull. U, S. Fish Comm., 1882, 

 108, 111, 113 (Panama; Mazatlan ; Punta Arenas); Evermann & 

 Meek, Proc, Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1883, 123 ; Jordan, Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., 1883, 289 (Notes on original type); Jordan, Cat. 

 Fish. N. A., 1885, 95. 



Gerres rhomieiis Giinther, Fish Centr. Amer., 391, 1866 (Name only\ 

 (Chiapam); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 232 

 (Salina Cruz), (not of Cuv. & Val.). 



Habitat. West Coast of Tropical America (Mazatlan ; Salina 

 Cruz; Chiapam; Panama; Peru). 



Dr. Jordan has examined the type of this species, of which he 

 says : " The type of this species is apparently identical with the 

 common west-coast species called by this name by Jordan and 

 Gilbert (Bull. 17. S. Fish Comm., 188, 330), and later by Ever- 

 mann and Meek (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1883, 123)." 



10. Gerres rhombeus. 



Stone bass Sloane, Nat. Hist. Jamaica, ii, pi. 2.:3, fig. 1, 1727 

 (Jamaica). 



Gerres rhombeus Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss , vi, 459, 

 1830 (Martinique ; San Domingo); Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus , 

 1, 341, 1859 (Cuba; Jamaica; Puerto Capello ; South America; in 

 part G . olisthostoma Goode & Bean); Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., 

 iv, 253, 1862 (Cuba; Jamaica ; Puerto Capello); Steindachner, Zur 

 Fisch-Fauna ]Magdalenen-Stromes, 9, 1878 (Eio Magdalena^; Jordan 

 & Gilbert, Proc. TJ. S. Nat. Mus., 1883, 383 (AspinwalD; Evermann 

 & Meek, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1883, 123 ; Jordan, Proc 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1883, 290 (Notes on original type); Eean & 

 Dresel, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1884, 154 (Jamaica). 



Habitat. West Indies and Atlantic Coast of Tropical America 

 (Jamaica ; San Domingo ; Martinique ; Puerto Capello ; Havana ; 

 Aspinwall ; Rio Magdalena). 




1886,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrHTA. 26t 



We luive examined a number of specimens from Havana, 

 ranging from 2f to 10 inches in length. 



Head 3^ ; depth If ; scales 5-38-10. D. IX, 10 ; A. II, 9. 



Body much compressed, rhomboidal in form, the back much 

 elevated ; profile evenly convex to supraorbital where there is a 

 slight depression ; snout somewhat pointed ; mouth rather large ; 

 end of maxillary reaching to vertical from centre of pupil, its 

 length 3 in head. Exposed portion of the maxillary oblong, its 

 width about 2| in its length, which is 4^ in head. Ej-e 3j in head ; 

 snout 4 in head ; interorbital area 3;^ in head. Gill-rakers stronger 

 than in gida or olisthostoma 18 below the angle. PremaxilJary 

 groove broad, oval and free from scales. Pectoral fins reaching 

 to front of anal, their length 3 in length of body ; ventral fins 

 reaching be3'ond vent, their length 4^ in length of bod3^ Second 

 dorsal spine stronger, but shorter than third and fourth, its length 

 about i^ in length of body ; margin of fin falcate. Suborbital 

 entire ; preopercle entire. Caudal peduncle 2 in length of head. 

 Anal spine constantly two in number. Second anal spine 1| in 

 length of hea(J. 



Color silvery, with bluish reflections, darker above ; margin of 

 dorsal fin black ; fins rather pale ; ventrals and anal with dusky 

 punctulations ; snout dusky ; no distinct dark lines along the rows 

 of scales. 



11. Gerres olisthostoma. 



Gerres rJtombeus'Poey, Kep. Pise. Cub., 316, 1865 (Havana); Poey, Syn. 



Pise. Cub., 331, 1868 (Havana). 

 Mojarra rTiomhea Poey, Enum. Pise. Cub., 51, 1875 (Havana); Poey, 

 Enum. Pise. Cub., 327, 1877 (Havana) (not Oerres rhonibeus 



C. & v.). 



Oerres olisthostoma Goode & Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 423 

 (Indian River, Florida); Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 934, 

 1883 ; Eveimann & Meek, Proe. Acad. Nat. Sei. Phila., 1883, 123 ; 

 Jordan, Proe. U. S. Nat. Mas.. 1884, 130 (Key West); Jordan, Cat. 

 Fish. N. A., 1885, 95. 



Habitat. Coast of Florida and Quba (Key West; Indian River, 

 Fla.; Havana ; San Matheos). 



We have examined specimens from Key West, Havana and San 

 Matheos. They range from 5 inches to a foot in length. 



Head 3^ ; depth 2^ ; scales 5-38-9. D. IX, 10 ; A. Ill, 8. 



Body compressed, rhomboidal in form, back very much ele- 

 vated. Mouth large, maxillary extending to vertical from ante- 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [188G. 



rior portion of pupil, its length 2| in head ; exposed portion 

 oblong, its width 2^ in its length, which is 4 to i^ in head. 



Preorbital entire ; preopercle serrate ; premaxillary groove 

 broad, closely covered with small scales (an important diagnostic 

 character); gill-rakers weak, 11 below the angle. Eye 3^ in head ; 

 interorbital space 3^, and snout about 3^ in head. Distance from 

 snout to dorsal fin about 2^ in length. Second dorsal spine 1^ to 

 1^ in head ; third about equal to second, the others decreasing in 

 length, the sixth being but one-half length of second the general 

 outline of upper margin of spinous dorsal being sickle-shaped. 

 Pectorals reaching slightly beyond front of anal, and equal a little 

 less than one-third length of body. Yentrals reaching just beyond 

 vent and are one-fourth length of body. Anal spines always 3. 

 Second anal spine stout, about If in head. Least depth of caudal 

 peduncle about 2^ in head. 



Color silvery with bluish reflections, darker above. No distinct 

 dark lines along rows of scales. Dorsal, ventrals and anal dusk}^, 

 other fins paler. A dark supraorbital spot ; snout dusky. 



This species has, until lately, been confounded with(r. rhombeus. 



12. Gerres brasilianus. 



Oerres brasilianus Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., vi, 458, 

 1830 (Brazil; Porto Rico); Poey, Rep. Pise. Cub,, i, 315, 1865 

 (Havana); Poey, Syn. Pise. Cub., 320, 1868 (Havana); Poey, Enum. 

 Pise. Cub., 50, 1875 (Havana); Poey, Enum. Pise. Cub., 327, 1877 

 (Havana); Evermann & Meek, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1883, 

 124 ; Jordan, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1883, 289 (Notes on type). 

 Oerres patao Poey, Memorias Cuba, ii, 192, 1858 (Havana); Poey, Syn. 

 Pise. Cub., 320, 1868 (Havana); Poey, Enum. Pise. Cub., 50, 1875 

 (Havana); Glinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., iv, 253, 1862 (Copied); 

 Evennann & Meek, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1883, 123. 



We have examined a veiy large specimen of this species col- 

 lected at Charleston, South Carolina, by Mr. Charles C. Leslie, 

 as well as numerous smaller ones from Havana. 



Head 8f ; depth 2i ; scales 5-38-9; D. IX-10; A. Ill-t or 8. 



Body compressed, rhombojjdal ; back very much elevated ; 

 profile nearly straight from spinous dorsal to premaxillary 

 groove, where there is a slight depression. Snout conical, bluut- 

 ish ; mouth rather large ; maxillary reaching slightly beyond 

 the vertical from anterior margin of pupil, its length 2| in 

 length of head. Exposed portion of maxillary oblong, its width 

 2^ in its length, its length 4^ in length of head. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 260 



Preorbital and preopercle serrate ; premaxillary groove broad, 

 narrowed posteriorly, entirely free from scales. Gill-rakers 

 short and weak, 11 below the angle; eye small, 3| in length of 

 head ; snout 3| in length of head. Dorsal spines rather strong 

 and stiff, second and third subequal in length, the second much 

 the stronger, its length If in length of head, upper margin of 

 dorsal fin falcate. Second and third anal spines subequal, the 

 second much the stronger, its length 1| in length of head. 

 Least depth of caudal peduncle 2^ in length of head. 



Color silvery gray, with bluish reflections, darker above, a dark 

 streak along each row of scales, most conspicuous on upper part 

 of bod}^ ; tins all dusky except pectorals, which are pale ; dorsal 

 and anal blackish on their margins, A dark supraorbital spot; 

 axil dusky. 



The description of Gerres hrasilianus Cuv. and Yal, is very 

 poor indeed, Dr, Jordan has examined the type, and we here 

 give a copy of his notes : " The type of this species is in very 

 bad condition, unfit for detailed description. Sides apparently 

 with dark stripes along the rows of scales. Preorbital and pre- 

 opercle serrate. Frontal groove broad, naked. Longest dorsal 

 spine 5 in body. Second anal spine 5^. Anal spines 3 in number. 

 Caudal fin long. This species is allied to G. plumieri, but the 

 back is less elevated and the spines smaller than in the latter." 



The above agrees very well with our specimens from Charles- 

 ton and Havana, the latter being evidently identical with the 

 Gerres patao of Poey. 



i;^. Gerres lineatus. 



Smaris lineatus Humboldf, Observ, Zool., i=, 185, PI. 43, 1807-1834 



(Acapulco). 

 Oerres lineatus Cuvier and Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., vi, 470, 



1830 (Description from Humboldt); Jordan fe Gilbert, Bull. U. S. 



Fish Comm., 1881, 330 (Mazatlan ; San Bias); Jordan & Gilbert, 



Bull. U. S. Fist Comm., 1882, 108 (Mazatlan); Jordan & Gilbert, 



Bull. U, S, Nat, Mus., 1882, 377 (Fresh-water Lake at Acapulco); 



Evermann & Meek, Proc. Acad. Nat, Sci. Phila., 1883, 123 ; Jo: dan, 



Cat. Fish. N. A., 1885, 95. 

 Gerres axillaris Giinther, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1864, 102 ; Giinther, 



Fish. Cent. Amer., 448, 1866 (Chiapani); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. 



U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 233 (Name only) (San Bias). 



Habitat. West Coast of Mexico (Acapulco ; Mazatlan ; San 

 Bias ; Chiapam). 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



14. Gerres brevimanus. 



Gerres brevimanus Giintlier, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1864, 153 ; 

 Giinthcr, Fish. Centr. Amer., 448, 1869 (Cbiapam); Evermann and 

 Meek, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1883, 124 ; Jordan. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., 1883, 290 (Notes on type). 



Habitat. Pacific Coast of Tropical America. 



Concerning this species, Dr. Jordan observes : " This species 

 is distinct from G. lineatus (Humboldt), although closely allied 

 to it. Only the original type is yet known. On this I have the 

 following notes : 



" Head 3j in length ; depth 2^ ; eye 3^ in head. Coloration of 

 Gerres lineatus. Back much lower than in the latter, and pectoral 

 fins very much shorter; their length 1^ in head; their tips not 

 reaching nearly to tips of ventrals, which are 1^ in head ; caudal 

 3 in body, Preorbital very little serrate, almost entire. Pre- 

 opercle weakly serrate. Second dorsal spine If in head; second 

 anal spine If. Teeth small and short. No black on base of 

 pectoral, or on lower fins. Spinous dorsal dusky above. Frontal 

 groove broad and naked, as in G. lineatus.''^ 



15. Gerres plumieri. 



Gerres phtmieri Ciivier & Valenciennes, list. Nat. Poiss., vi, 452, 1830, 

 (Antilles; Porto Puco); Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., i, 340, 1859 

 (San Domingo; Guatemala; Pemambnco ; Bahia); Cat. Fish, 

 Brit. Mus., iv, 253, 1862 (San Domingo ; Guatemala; Pemambuco; 

 Bahia); Poey, Rep. Pise. Cub., 315, 1865 (Havana); Poey, Syn.Pisc. 

 Cub., 321, 1868 (Havana); Poey, Enum. Pise. Cub., 49, 1875 (Ha- 

 vana); Poey, Enum. Pise. Cub., 327, 1877 (Havana); Steindachner, 

 Zur Fisch-Fauua des Magdalenen-Stromes, 9, 1878 (RioMagdalena); 

 Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 583, 1883 ; Evermann & Meek, 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil.. 1883, 124 (Aspinwall ; Indian River, 

 Florida); Jordan, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1883, 290 (Notes on, 

 type); Bean & Dresel, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1884, 153 (Jamaica); 

 Jordan, Cat. Fish. N. A., 1885, 95. 



Habitat. West Indies and Atlantic Coast of Tropical America 

 (Antilles; Havana; Porto Rico ; San Domingo; Jamaica; In- 

 dian River, Fla. ; Pernambuco ; Bahia ; Aspinwall ; Guatemala). 



We have examined six specimens from Havana. They range 

 from 5^ to 6 inches in length. 



Head 3 ; depth 2^ ; scales 5-3T-11. D. lY, 10 ; A. Ill, 8. 



Body compressed, rhomboidal in form, back yery much ele- 

 vated. Mouth rather large, maxillary extending slightly beyond 




1886.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



2T1 



vertical from anterior margin of pupil, its length 2f in head ; 

 exposed portion of maxillary oblong, its width 2^ in its length, 

 which is 4| in length of head. 



Preorbital and preopercle serrate ; premaxillary groove broad 

 and entirely free from scales. Gill-rakers small, weak, 13 below 

 the angle. Eye rather large, 3 in head ; snout 4 in head. Dis- 

 tance from tip of snout to dorsal fin equals the greatest depth of 

 fish. Upper margin of dorsal fin is sickle-shaped. Second dorsal 

 spine very strong and long, its length 2| in length of body ; the 

 other spines rather weak and flexible. Second anal spine very 

 long and strong, its length equals length of head ; third anal 

 spine shorter and much weaker than second. Pectoral fins 

 reaching beyond the front of anal, their length 2f in length of 

 body ; ventral fins reaching past vent, almost to front of anal, 

 their length 3 in length of body. 



Color bluish-silvery above, silvery below ; distinct dark longi- 

 tudinal lines along each row of scales. Dorsal caudal and anal 

 fins dusky ; margin of dorsal fin black ; a dark supraorbital spot. 

 Pectoral and ventral fins pale. 



The following is a list of the nominal species referred to in the 

 foregoing paper, arranged in chronological order, with our iden- 

 tification of each. Tenable specific names are printed in italics. 



Nominal Species. 

 Mugil cinereus Walbanm, 

 Smaris lineatus Humboldt, 

 Gerres jjlumieri Cuvier and Valenciennes, 

 Gerres hrasilianiis Cuv. and Val., 

 Gerres rJiombeus Cuv. and Val., 

 Gerres aprion Cuv. and Val., 

 Gerres gula Cuv, and Val., 

 Gerres peruvianus Cuv. and Val., 

 Gerres zebra jMiiller and Troschel, 

 Eucinostomus argeuteus Baird & Girard, 

 Gerres patao Poey, 

 Gerres squamipinnis Giinther, 

 Diapterus californiensis Gill, 

 Diapterus gracilis Gill, 

 Diapterus dowi Gill, 

 Gerres axillaris Gihitlicr, 

 Gerres brevimartus Giinther, 

 Gerres lefroyi Goode, 

 Eucinostomus pseudo-gula Poey, 

 Eucinostomus gulula Poey, 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



Nominal Species. Year. Identification. 



Eucinostomus productus Poey, 1876, Gerres lefroyi. 



Gerres jonesi Giinther, 1879, Genes pseudogula. 



EucinostorausharengulusGoode and Bean, 1879, Gerres gracilis. 



Diapterus homonymus Goode and Bean, 1879, Gerres gula. 



Gerres avreolus Jordan and Gilbert, 1881, Gerres aureolus. 



Gerres olisthostoma Goode and Bean, 1882, Gerres olistliostoma. 



Recapitulation. 



We have in this paper admitted 15 species of the American 

 Gerridae, and repeat here the list of species. The distribution 

 of the species is indicated by the letters W. (West Indies and 

 adjacent coasts), U. (Southern Atlantic coast of the United 

 States), and P. (Pacific coast of Tropical America). 



1. Genus GERRES Cuvier. 



1. Gerres lefroyi Goode (W.). 



2. Qerres dowi Gill (U. ; W. ; P.). 



3. Gerres pseudogula Poey (W.). 



4. Gerres gracilis Gill (U. ; W. ; P.). 



5. Gerres ealifomiensis Gill (P.). 



6. Gerres einereus Walbaum (U. ; W. ; P.). 

 7 Gerres gula Cuv. and Val. (U. ; W.). 



8. Gerres aureolus Jordan & Gilbert (Panama). 



9. Gerres peruvinnus Cuv. & Val. (P.). 



10. Gerres rhomheus Cuv. & Val. (W.). 



11. Gerres olisthostoma Goode & Bean (W. ; U.). 



12. Gerres brasilianus Cuv. & Val. (W. ; U.). 



13. Gerres lineatus Humlioldt (P. ). 



14. Gerres hrevimanus Giinther (P.). 



15. Gerres plumieri Cuv. & Val. (W. ; U.). 




1886.] natural sciences op philadelphia. 273 



June 1. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Twenty-five persons present. 



The deaths of C. J. Hoffman, a member, and of C. U. Shepherd, 

 a correspondent, were announced. 



Trapa bicornis, L. Mr. Meehan called attention to the Ling 

 nut of the Chinese, of which a specimen on the table was four- 

 horned, as in the European species T. riatans, and another with 

 three. It showed that the calj'cine horns were little more than 

 bracts, and that the European species was one more highly 

 developed than the Asiatic species. 



Formation of Crowds Nest Brandies in the Cherry Tree In 

 regard to fasciated branches, or as they were familiarly called 

 "crow's nests," in trees, Mr. Meehan remarked that they might 

 be classed as different species, and perhaps each species might 

 have its own peculiar law of development. In former contribu- 

 tions to the Academy, he had explained some of the phenomena 

 attendant on fasciation in trees and plants, which gave clues as 

 to their origin. In the cherry there was a species of fasciation 

 distinct from that prevailing in most trees. In a portion of the 

 mass of branches cut from the main mass, very little of an 

 abnormal character could be noted. But on the tree itself a 

 huge mass of small branches proceeding from one common 

 branch might be noted, in striking contrast with the prevailing 

 character. The specimens exhibited were from a mass of about 

 four feet in diameter. In this there were about two hundred 

 branchlets. In one of the thickest growths of a normal charac- 

 ter, only about twenty branchlets could be counted in a similar 

 space. The weight of these fasciations was so great that the 

 masses hung like pendulums from the trees. The garden cherry 

 had for more than a century been naturalized near Philadelphia, 

 and he knew of three of these fasciations, one on each wild tree, 

 within a half mile of each other. He had not seen any on culti- 

 vated trees. They had been under his observation for years. 

 The}^ might be said to never flower. On one he had seen two 

 weak flowers last year. There were none this. The leaves are 

 attacked by a species of fungus, which Professor Farlow, of 

 Cambridge, had kindly worked out for him, and found to be 

 Exoascus Wilsneri, an European species closely allied to E. 

 deformans, the species well known as causing the disease called 

 the " curl " in the peach. Prof. Farlow states that the specimens 

 sent by Mr. Meehan gave him the first knowledge of the existence 

 of the species in America. 




274 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



As in the peach leaf-curl, the first leaves that push in the 

 spring are attacked, and are soon destroj-ed, the blistered and 

 browned leaves all falling by the first of June. New leaves, free 

 from the fungus, and weak shoots follow the attack. The absence 

 of flowers led to the discovery of the method by which the 

 fasciation is formed. In the normal condition of the cherry tree, 

 the weak shoots become fruit-bearing spurs. From these spurs 

 leaves annually appear, leaving an axillary bud, which becomes 

 the flower bud of the next season. The leaf continues healthy 

 throughout the growing season, and the parts that, morphologi- 

 cally speaking, might make a weak growth of wood, remain in 

 a kind of microcosm as sepals, petals, stamens, and carpels, fed 

 by the leaf for another year. But when this leaf is injured or 

 destroyed, instead of the bud remaining quiescent, or the 

 theoretical leaves changing into floral parts in the bud, a new 

 growth of leaves and the weak shoot are produced instead. It 

 is indeed so clear when once observed that the fasciation is 

 simply the development to weak branches of what would nor- 

 mally' be blossom spurs, that it was provoking to reflect that it 

 had taken so many years to discover it. 



An interesting observation was that the fungus should confine 

 itself to the fasciated mass for so many years, and show no dis- 

 position whatever to spread to any other part of the tree. In 

 practical gardening we were taught when these fungus pests 

 appeared on orchard trees it was highly important to cut off 

 the branches or leaves, and burn them, in order to check the 

 spread. In the absence of actual demonstration in this case, one 

 might with good reason assume that the mycelium of the para- 

 site had obtained an entrance into the tissue and propagated 

 itself continuously as the branches grew, and that a crop of 

 spores in myriads must be produced annually. Only in rare 

 instances were the circumstances favorable to their germination. 

 The careful cutting away and burning of a few thousand spores 

 would be a matter of small importance in comparison with the 

 immense number that must escape the eff'ort of the cultivator for 

 their destruction. Safety lies evidently rather in the difficulty 

 these minute bodies experience in finding the exact conditions 

 necessarj^ for their growth and development, than from the 

 destruction of the germs themselves. 



Distribution of Modiola tulipa. Mr. John Ford reported the 

 finding by him of a half-grown specimen of Modiola tulipa Lam., 

 near Cape May, N. J., on the 16th ult. As the species is essen- 

 tially a southern one, it was at first supposed that the specimen 

 had been carried north on the bottom of a vessel, or in some 

 other artificial manner. The discovery two weeks later, by Mr. 

 Ford, of a dozen or more adult specimens, at Anglesea, ten 

 miles further north, seems to prove that the species has entered 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 275 



upon its new conditions in large numbers, and with the purpose 

 of making its new home a permanent one. 



There is no record of the species having been found north of 

 South Carolina before. 



Toxodon and other Remains from Nicaragua^ G. A. Prof. 

 Leidf directed attention to some fossils, and remarked that they 

 were part of a collection which he had been invited to examine 

 b}^ Mrs. Dr. B. F. Guerrero, now residing in this city- The collec- 

 tion was obtained from the northern part of Nicaragua, but 

 nothing further had been learned about it. It mostly consisted 

 of uncharacteristic fragments of bones, but among them were 

 many interesting specimens referable to Megatherium, Elephant, 

 Mastodon, Horse, Ox, Toxodon, and Capybara. The association 

 of these animals is another illustration of the extension of the 

 early South American quaternary fauna into North America. 

 Among the remains of Ilegatheriinn there is the greater part of 

 the distal extremity of a femur and a fragment of the mandible 

 with two teeth. Of the Elephant there is a portion of a molar 

 tooth. Of the Mastodon there is a molar tooth and portions of 

 several others apparently of the M. andium. Of the Horse there are 

 two upper molar teeth, with no well-marked difference distinguish- 

 ing them from those of ordinarj' varieties of the Domestic Horse. 

 Perhaps they may pertain to one or other of the species indicated 

 by Prof. Owen with the names of Equiis curvidens or E. tau. Of 

 the Ox, the collection contains several horn-cores of different 

 sizes; one, double the size of that of the Domestic Ox. 



The Capybara is indicated by a fragment of the left ramus of 

 a mandible with the first molar alveolus containing the greater 

 part of the tooth. The specimen conforms to the corresponding 

 portion of the jaw of the living Cap3bara, but indicates a con- 

 siderably larger and more robust animal. Considering the dif- 

 ference in size and age of the fossil, it was 

 probably a different species from the Cap}- 

 isara, and regarding it as such he proposes 

 for it the name of EydrocJwerus 7^obustiis. 

 The first molar tooth complete would have 

 the appearance represented in figure 1, and, 

 ^- except in size, does not differ from that of 



the Capybara. Comparative measurements of the fossil are as 

 follows : 



Depth of mandible at ^irst molar, 

 Length of first molar. 

 Fore and aft diameter, 

 Transverse diameter of last dental 



|H3.tG^ 



Diameter of incisive alveolus, . 

 Dr. Lund, in his Fossil Fauna of Brazil (An. Sc. Nat., 1839, 



H 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



214) refers to remains of Hydrochoerus, which he refers to two 

 species, one as H. affine Capybarae, not diflferent from the living 

 Capybara, and another which he calls H. sidcidens^ of a size inter- 

 mediate to the latter and the Tapir, and having the incisors 

 deeply grooved in front. He remarks the former differs in having 

 the incisors smooth in front as in the living species, which sajung 

 is obscure, for in the living Capybara the incisors are con- 

 spicuously grooved in front. 



Prof. Owen (Yoyage of the Beagle 110), speaks of a decom- 

 posed molar tooth of Hydrochoerus, found with remains of Mega- 

 therium, Toxodon, etc., by Mr. Darwin at Bahia Blanca, S. A. 

 He remarks that the fossil differs from the corresponding tooth 

 of the Capybara, in the greater relative breadth of the component 

 laminse. 



Prof. Gervais (Rech. Mara. Fos. de I'Amerique Meredionale, 

 1855, 12), describes remains of Hj'drochoerus, found with those 

 of Megatherium, Toxodon, etc., at Tarija, Bolivia. They con- 

 sisted of portions of upper jaws, which are regarded as pertaining 

 to a species but little different in size and in the form of the teeth 

 from the recent Capybara. They are referred to the E. affinis 

 Capybarae of Dr. Lund. A specimen of a maxilla with the last 

 two molar teeth, figured in Plate xiii, fig. 3, of the work, indicates 

 a more robust animal than the living Capybara, and the last 

 molar tooth is composed of fourteen plates, a greater number 

 than exists in the recent animal. In four skulls of the latter he 

 found the last upper molar to have twelve plates, while in the fossil 

 described by Gervais there are fourteen plates. Couiparative 

 measurements of the latter fossil with the recent animal are as 

 follows : 



Capybara. Tarija fossil. 



Last molar, fore and aft diameter, 33 to 34 mm. 50 mm. 

 Last molar, transverse diameter, 12 to 13 " 20 " 

 Penultimate molar, fore and aft, 9 to 10 " 14 " 



He thought it probable that the remains of Hydrochoerus.^ 

 referred by Lund and Gervais to H. affinis Capybarse, and those 

 mentioned by Owen, as above noted, probably also belong to the 

 species he had named H. robustus. He formerly described some 

 remains of Hydrochoerus, which were found in association with 

 those of 3Iegatheriu7n, etc., in the Ashley Phosphate Beds of 

 South Carolina (Post-pleiocene Fossils of South Carolina, 18G0, 

 112, pi. xxi, figs. 3-6). These consist- of teeth, which agree in 

 size with those of the recent Capybara, and were referred to a 

 probably extinct species, with the name of H. ^sopi. 



The most interesting fossils of the collection are those of Toxo- 

 don, as being evidence of the former existence of this remarkable 

 animal in North America. The best preserved and best marked 

 specimens consist of a nearl}^ complete lower molar tooth, and 

 two portions of a lower incisor. These in their form and size best 




I 



1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



agree with the corresponding teeth of Toxodon Burmeisteri^ 

 described and figured by Dr. Burmeister, in the Annals of the 

 Museum of Buenos Aires, 1869, 256, pi. xi. 



The molar tooth is the penultimate of the left side. Its length, 



when complete, has approxi- 

 mated five inches, and it mea- 

 sures 43 mm. fore and aft, and 

 18 mm. transversely at its fore 

 part. An outline of the tritu- 

 rating surface is represented in 

 figure 2. Enamel invests the 

 outer surface extending about half way round the corners in front 

 and behind. On the inner surface enamel invests the middle 

 extending furthest behind. The inner angles of the tooth are 

 both destitute of enamel. The outer enamel layer forms a single 

 inflection about the anterior third of the tooth ; the inner enamel 

 layer forms two inflections nearly equidistant behind the position 

 of the outer one ; the posterior inflection being the deepest. 



The incisor, apparently the second lower of the right side, is 

 broken into two about the middle, and when complete has been 

 over six inches long. The transverse section, as seen in figure 3, 



viewed from below, is triangular, with 

 the apex directed outward, and the 

 base inward or mesially. The front 

 surface is transversely convex, and 

 the back surface in the same direction 

 concave. The inner surface, extending 

 around the corners, further in front 

 than behind, is destitute of enamel. 

 The triturating surface is worn away in a slope from the outer 

 border inward and backward. The measurement of the section 

 in front and behind is 37 mm., and internally fore and aft 23 mm. 



June 8. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Twenty-one persons present. 



A paper entitled " On the Histology of Salpa (S. runcinata- 

 fusiformis)," by Dr. Chas. S, Dolley, was presented for publi- 

 cation. 



Oa the Expansion of the Crystalline lens. Dr. Benjamin Sharp 

 remarked that it is well known that accommodation in the eye, 

 for distance, is effected by the contraction of the ciliary muscle, 

 drawing on the point of attachment of the capsular ligament of 

 the lens, the lens widening its optical axis as soon as the tension 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



of the ligament is released. The lens is flattened, or its optical 

 axis is shortened, as soon as the ciliar}^ muscle is relaxed; the 

 ligament being drawn upon by the elasticity of the sclera, and 

 perhaps it is somewhat aided by the intraocular pressure. Dr. 

 Sharp stated that as far as he knew the mechanism of the 

 " lenticular expansion " had not been described. This action is 

 easily seen on turning to the development of the lens. The 

 lens is formed by an invagination of the external ectoderm soon 

 closing, and as a result we have a spherical vesicle, soon enclosed 

 in the mouth of the secondary optic vesicle. When this has 

 taken place, the posterior wall of the lens-vesicle thickens, that 

 is, the posterior cells commence to elongate, and grow toward 

 the anterior wall of the vesicle, the cells of which remain, 

 generally speaking, of the same size, and later form the so-called 

 epithelium of the lens. Keeping this structure in view, we see 

 that when pressure is brought to bear on the lens, these elongated 

 cells of the posterior wall are compressed in their longitudinal 

 axis, so that as soon as the pressure is removed, they simply 

 straighten out. This will also account for the fact, that the 

 anterior face of the lens is the onl}^ portion that moves in the 

 act of accommodation for distance. In the adult lens this 

 structure is to a certain extent lost, and the lens is generally 

 described as being made up of layers concentrically arranged. 

 This is true, but the embryonic " impression " still remains. If 

 we supposed that the lens were made up of layers concentrically 

 arranged and so formed^ when the capsular ligament " slacked 

 up " the tendency of the lens w^ould be to shorten its optical 

 axis instead of lengthening it. 



The Opal Mines of Queretaro^ Mexico. Dr. A. E. Foote 

 remarked that the localit}^ referred to is particularly interesting 

 as being the only one in North America that is being worked 

 solely for the production of gems. 



The opals of Mexico have been celebrated since 1820, when 

 Karsten and Del Rio referred to the opals of Zimapan and that 

 neighborhood as being in many respects equal and in some 

 respects superior to the Hungarian. There are quite a number 

 of fine localities from which considerable quantities have been 

 exported to Europe, so that among the lovers of the beautiful, 

 Mexico is as well known for its brilliant opals as for the soft and 

 exquisite tints of the tecali or Mexican onyx. 



As in the case of diamonds from Brazil and Africa, there is a 

 jeweler's prejudice against the new locality, and they are con- 

 sidered even more unluck}^ and liable to break than those of 

 Hungary, I have, however, seen in the possession of Senor 

 Cosio magnificent specimens that had been taken out over ten 

 years, and were without a flaw. 



The locality in Queretaro is the only one in Mexico that is 

 being worked to any extent now. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPniA. 279 



The principal mines are on the hacienda of Esperanza, where 

 the opal was discovered, by a servant, ten years ago. No mines 

 were taken up until 1870, when Di\ Jose Maria Siurob located 

 the mine of Santa Maria Iris. The fine specimens secured during 

 the next few years created so much excitement that a large 

 number of mines were located, most of which are now abandoned. 

 The district is quite extensive, having been traced over a region 

 about twenty leagues long by thirty-one leagues wide. At 

 Ciervo, fourteen leagues from Esperanza, the opal is quite 

 abundant, though none of the precious variety of good quality 

 has been found. 



The mines of Esperanza can only be reached on horseback, 

 and the ride from Qneretaro is a very hard one. San Juan del 

 Rio, said to be the nearest large town where one can get accom- 

 modations for the night, is ten leagues to the S. E. 



Leaving the Mexican Central Railroad and crossing a rich 

 alluvial plain, covered with fields of corn and the so-called cen- 

 tury plant, surrounded by fences of Gereiis giganteus, we came 

 to the foot hills. Here at once abundant evidences of volcanic 

 action were seen. Round nodules of obsidian, large masses of 

 agate, milk opal, and other siliceous products, Avere mixed with 

 the cacti on every side. The rough trail soon led into the dry 

 bed of a barranca, where porph3-ritic trachyte carrying tlie 

 common varieties of opal were quite abundant ; the trend of 

 these porphyritic banks was from S. E. to N. W. The color of 

 the rock is reddish gray. As the barranca terminated in a 

 narrow valley, on the mountains on each side were seen the red 

 dumps standing out conspicuously upon the gray surface. 



Of the mines that he visited only one, the Jurado, was being 

 Avorked. The deposits of opal-bearing trachyte are so irregular 

 that the mines are soon exliausted. 



The Jurado is an immense excavation about 150 feet deep 

 several hundred feet long, and about 100 feet wide. At the 

 bottom, the porphyritic rock seemed to be thoroughly impreo-- 

 nated with hydrated silica, even occasionally being converted 

 into common opal. 



The general appearance of the rock furnishes a very good clue 

 to the character of the opals that it may contain. Thus if the 

 rock is less red in color and close and compact in texture, fire 

 opals and related forms abound, while if the rock is deep red in 

 color or clayey and pockety, the Hungarian, harlequin, and milky 

 opals are much more abundant. 



There is no locality of which he had ever heard where such 

 an extraordinary variety of opals can be found in a sino-le 

 matrix. The same small piece of rock will show fire opal, fire 

 opal showing green and blue reflections, the Hungarian, harlequin 

 girasol, h3'alite, milk, and almost every vai-iety. The harlequins 

 showing a mosaic of brilliant minute spangles of color in a 

 milky base, vie with the broad sheets of dazzling blue, red and 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



green. Perhaps, like Ruskin, we should give the palm to the 

 "Milky opals tliat gleam and shine like sullen fires in a pallid 

 mist.""' 



Vitality of Mollusca. Prof. Heilprin called attention to a 

 remarkable case of vitality among certain members of the fauna 

 of the New Jersey coast. Specimens of Nassa obsoleta collected 

 by Miss Emma Walter, at Atlantic City just one year ago, and 

 i-etained dry during the entire j'ear of their accidental captivity, 

 were stated to be still alive, although subjected for several months 

 to the abnormal temperature occasioned b}'^ proximity to a heated 

 wall surface. This, the speaker contended, was perhaps the most 

 extraordinary instance of vitality known among the marine mol- 

 lusca, although among the terrestrial and freshwater forms, 

 especially among those which undergo a partial hibernation, 

 longer periods of semi-adaptation to imposed conditions have 

 been noted. Instances of such survivals were cited by the speaker 

 and Prof. Leidy. 



June 15. 

 Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair. 

 Twenty-two persons present. 



June 22. 



Mr. Thos. Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Thirteen persons present. 



A paper, entitled " Notes on the Paspali of Le Conte's Mono- 

 graph," b}^ Geo. yasey,was presented for publication. 



Note on Quercus dentata. Mr. Thomas Meehan exhibited 

 specimens of Quercus dentata with female flowers, from a speci- 

 men raised from an acorn received from Japan ten } ears ago. It 

 is of very rapid growth, being now eighteen feet high, and six 

 inches in circumference. So recently as the issue of the volume 

 of De GandolWs Prodromits, it was noted that the fruit was un- 

 known. Some account of these female flowers might have an 

 interest. Like our annual fruited oaks the flowers appear at the 

 end of the young growth, in pairs on peduncles about half an 



^ The speaker had collected at the opal mines a number of specimens of 

 minute bright white rhombohedrons showing the basal planes ; these have 

 been examined by Prof. E. S. Dana, who pronounces them alunite. Well 

 crystallized alunite is not common, and he believed this is the first time its 

 appearance has been noted in North America. 




1886.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



281 



inch long, the peduncles of course springing from the axils of the 

 upper leaves. Early in June a second growth occurs, on which 



are also female flowers. 

 On many of the stronger 

 a third growth is made 

 before autumn. The sev- 

 eral growths during the 

 season on this tree, have 

 no doubt had much to do 

 with its great size in so 

 short a time. The in- 

 volucre is a mass of loose 

 scales, in the centre of 

 which the four blackish 

 ligulate stigmas are seen. 

 Bisecting the flower verti- 

 cally, the usually minute 

 calyx segments, immediately beneath the stigmas are represented 

 here by numerous brown scale-like hairs, which simulate the scales 

 of the involucre, and are at the apex of a slender stipe or beak 

 four lines long, that seems to spring from the true ovarium as if it 

 were a true style, and the real pistils represent a four-cleft stigma 

 at the apex. He did not remember any American species that 

 had so long a beak in this early stage of growth, though there 

 were some species that he had not had an opportunity of dis- 

 secting. From those that he had had the opportunity of exam- 

 ining the differences in this feature were striking, and the 

 character could certainly be made more useful than it had been 

 in enabling us to discriminate species in this very difficult genus. 

 A horizontal section of the ovarium shows it to be four-celled, 

 with each cell two-ovuled. 



1. Peduncle with flowers, Quercus denfata, natural size 



2. Beak of the ovarium with stigmas enlarged. 



3. Beak of the ovarium with stigmas enlarged, Quer- 



cus macfDcarpa. 



June 29. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Eighteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " Notices of Nematoid Worms," by Dr. 

 Joseph Leidy, was presented for publication. 



Mineralogical Notes. Composition of Stromeyerite. Professor 

 George A. Kcenig placed on record the identification of Stro- 

 meyerite from Zacatecas, Mexico. At this locality the miners 

 designate the various silver minerals by their colors as black 

 silver, red silver, green silver, and blue silver. Under the 

 latter name plata azul several minerals are undoubtedly com- 

 prehended, but probably the most prevalent is the mineral 

 here identified as Stromeyerite. One 

 19 



large specimen is com- 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



posed of numerous prismatic crystals, the terminations broken 

 off sitting on well-crjstallized quartz, and from several smaller 

 specimens it would appear that quartz is the ordinary com- 

 panion of Stromeyerite at Zacatecas, whilst the other silver 

 minerals Proustite, Polybasite, Stephanite, Argentite are more 

 commonl}^ associated with Calcite. The faces of the crystals are 

 rough, not admitting close measurements ; the prismatic angle is 

 near r20-119. The mineral has no cleavage. Its fracture is 

 uneven to flat subchonchoidal and very splintery. The lustre 

 is brilliantly metallic and the color iron-gray with a strong bluish 

 purple admixture. The color of the powder is nearly the same. 

 It is not sectile, but mild, and has a hardness of 3, 5. 



Spec, gravity = 6*2303, made upon 1-623 grams of fragments 

 from several crystals. Before the blowpipe it melts verj"^ readily 

 to a globule, emitting sulfurdioxide, and changing to a gray 

 globule of silver-copper. Gives no sublimate on charcoal, nor 

 in open or closed tube, and dissolves in nitric acid to a blue solu- 

 tion, in which hydrochloric acid precipitates flocculent silver 

 chloride. 



A preliminary anal3'^sis made with a fragment from one cr3'^stal 

 (02346 gram) gave the result I ; a second analysis made upon 

 the mixed fragments used in the determination of specific gravity 

 (0"5 gr.) gave the result II. 



I. AgCl = 0-1615 ; Cu^S = 0-0958 ; BaSO, = 0-2837. 

 II. AgCl = 0-2509; Cu^S = 2105 ; BaSO^ = 0-5758. 



From this we calculate : 



Insoluble 



.d.1^ 



v/U. 



o 



100-97 99-94 



Analysis having been made with twice the quantity of sub- 

 stance and with greater care, deserves alone to be taken as basis 

 for the atomic ratio. Dividing the percentages by the atomic 

 weights, we obtain : 



Ag : Cu : S = 0-4661 : 0-5322 : 0-4975 

 Ag+ Cu : S = 0-9983 : 0-4975 

 = 2-007 : 1 

 Hence, 47 Ag^S + 53 Cu^S 



It is seen that Ag and Cu are not exactly in the ratio 1:1, 

 but very near. Undoubted Strome3'erite has been described 

 heretofore only from two localities, Schlangenberg, in Siberia, 

 and Rudelstadt, in Silesia, and from the latter place only in 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



crystals. The analj-ses of the mineral from these places do not 

 give the ratio of 1 : 1 for Ag and Cu either, but a little closer than 

 the present locality of Zacatecas. Since Ag.^S and Cu.^S may 

 replace each other isomorphically in all proportions without 

 question, we may look upon such a ratio as Stromeyerite demands, 

 1 : 1 , as quite an exception, owing no doubt to peculiar condi- 

 tions present at the time of crystallization. 



The material for this investigation was obtained from Dr. A. E. 

 Foote, who collected it during his recent visit to Zacatecas and 

 other mineral localities in Mexico. 



Christian E. Metzler and Charles H. Marot were elected 

 members. 



The following was ordered to be published : 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



NOTES ON THE PASPALI OF LE CONTE'S MONOGRAPH. 

 BY GEORGE VASEY. 



Tlie monograph of U. S. species of the genus Paspalum, by 

 Capt. (since Major) Le Conte, was published in the Journal de 

 Physique, Paris, vol. 91 (1820). It contains descriptions of 

 eighteen species. 



Through the kindness of Mr. J. H. Redfield, all the Lecontean 

 specimens of Faspalum in the Herbarium of the Philadelphia 

 Academy of Natural Sciences, have been placed in my hands for 

 examination, and I have given them as careful a revision as I find 

 possible. The result is expressed in the following notes. I have to 

 premise that autograph specimens of some of these species are 

 wanting, and of some others are mixed in the sheet with other 

 species, making it doubtful which was the typical plant. But in 

 most cases the specimens and descriptions enable us satisfactorily 

 to determine the species indicated. 



1. Paspalum praecox, Walter. 



The specimen to which Le Conte's ticket is attached is a form 

 of P. Iseve, Mich., not answering, however, to all the characters 

 given, as the sheaths and leaves are not "m7osmmt<s" and the 

 number of spikes is four instead of three. In the same sheet, 

 however, is another specimen which has hairy leaves and sheaths. 

 Le Conte evidently thought he was describing the plant of Walter, 

 but the description does not answer for the plant which is now 

 accepted as the P. praecox of Walter, nor does it agree with the 

 description either of Michaux or Elliott. 



2. P. setaceum, Michx. 



The ticket bearing this name is in a sheet with another bearing 

 the name of the next species, and the plants are all the common 

 erect hairy form of P. setaceum^ Michx., except one specimen, 

 ticketed P. ciliatifolium, from Georgia, and marked " Baldwin." 

 Mr. Le Conte's description answers well to the commonly ac- 

 cepted plant of Michaux, and he gives after his description this 

 reference, " P. setaceum et debile Michaux, Nova Cesarea ad 

 Floridam," with the mark for annual, which latter point is 

 open to doubt. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 285 



3. P. ciliatifolium, Miehx. 



As above stated, the ticket for this is in the same sheet with 

 the preceding, and if it has not been changed, must apply to the 

 same plant, as the description does not at all apply to the smooth 

 long-leaved specimen of P. ciliatifolium from Georgia. Some of 

 the specimens have " spica unica," and some have " spicis 1 sive 

 2," and some with the usual lateral peduncled ones. 



4. P. longepedunculatum, Le Conte. 



The specimen to which this name is attached is commonly 

 referred to P. setaceum, Michx., but is a difterent form from Nos. 

 2 and 3, more like the southern P. ciliatifolium^ but having the 

 leaves shorter and narrower. There are several long peduncled 

 lateral spikes which are not mentioned in the description, the 

 name being based on the " very long peduncled common spike." 

 In Herb. Scribner is a specimen, collected by Mi\ Isaac Burk, on 

 the ballast grounds of Philadelphia, which is almost exactly like 

 the Le Contean one, and if P. ciliatifolium is considered a species 

 this might be called variety brevifolia. At the close of his de- 

 scription Le Conte says " P. debile, Muhl. Gram." 



5. P. Floridanum, Michx. 



There are two tickets with this name, one of which is attached 

 to a specimen of P. racemulosum, Nutt., which specimen does not 

 agree with Le Conte's description ; the other is attached to a 

 much smaller plant, very well answering the description of Le 

 Conte but not of Michaux. The specimen is not different appar- 

 ently from the one to which Le Conte's ticket " P. prsecox " is 

 attached, which we take to be Paspalum Iseve, Michx., the short 

 broad-leaved form which is perhaps the typical one. 



In Herb. Torrey is a specimen of Paspalum Floridanum with a 

 note, "not of Le Conte, which is P. Iseve. Ell. i, p. 106, non 

 Michx. ? " We see from this note not only that Dr. Torrey 

 referred Le Conte's P. Floridanum to P. Iseve, Ell., but also that 

 he had doubt if Elliott's plant was the same as Michaux's. 



6. P. laeve, Michx. 



Le Conte's ticket with this name is loose in a sheet with the 

 preceding, the three specimens being apparently all alike except 

 as to the pubescence of the leaves. There is also in another sheet 

 a specimen with the ticket attached, which specimen is the form 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



of P. laeve, with long, smooth leaves, not as No. 6 is described 

 with " foliis latiusculis, brevibus." 



7. P. difForme, Le Conte. 



The name as printed is " cliflbrme," evidently a tj^pographical 

 error. The specimen is intermediate between P. laeve and P. 

 Floridanum, and different from either. Le Conte says, " Refert 

 P. Floridanum sed spicis erectis, glumisque majoribus facile dis- 

 tinguitur." This comparison was evidently made with his No. 5, 

 which was not the P. Floridanum, Mx. He also refers Paspalum 

 No. 7 of Muhlenberg's Gram, to this plant, but the description is 

 too obscure to be of any value. We have specimens in the II. S. 

 Herbarium from N. C, and from Florida, which are apparently 

 the same as Le Conte's plant. They have been referred to P. 

 Floridanum, but are clearly different in the smaller size of the 

 plant, in the shorter spikes, and in the much shorter leaves. We 

 have the same plant, also, from Dr. Charles Mohr, Mobile, Ala., 

 who noted that it differed from the P. Floridanum. He says P. 

 Floridanum blooms from the middle of June to the middle of 

 July, while the other kind begins to flower six or eight weeks 

 later. Altogether it seems that for these specimens Le Conte's 

 name should be recognized and added to our list. 



8. P. undulosum, Le Conte. 



The specimen over this name is apparently a form of P. laeve, 

 Michx., with wider and smoother leaves, more numerous and 

 shorter spikes than in the common form. I have seen no other 

 specimens quite matching it, and it may very well be called P. 

 laeve, variety undulosum. The undulate margin of the leaves is 

 also shared by other species. Schultes subsequently published 

 this as P. Leconteanum (Mant. 2, 168), probably because Le 

 Conte's name was too much like P. undulatum, Poir. 



9. P. latifolium, Le Conte. 



The specimen with this name looks like a very exuberant P. 

 ciliatifolium, with equally small spikelets, but in three or four 

 series. The leaves are about an inch wide, and eight to ten 

 inches long. I have seen no other such specimens, but the 

 general appearance and habit is that of P. ciliatifolium, of which 

 it is probably a luxuriant form. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



10. P. virgatum, Walt. 



The ticket bearing this name is loose in a s]\eet which contains 

 two specimens of P. plicatulum, Michx., and two specimens of 

 P. praecox, Walt., one of which is ticketed, " Herb. Schw., P. pli- 

 catulum, Georgia, Hermann." The description seems to refer to 

 what we call P. praecox, Walt., " spicis 5-6, alternis, erectis, 

 glumis biseriatis, rachi latiuscula, non flexuosa, dentibus bifloris." 

 Le Conte apparently mistook his No. 1 for P. praecox, Walt., and 

 this for P. virgatum, Walt. The true P. virgatum, Walt., is prob- 

 ably P. purpurascens, Ell. Le Conte adds to his description this 

 note, " Calicis valvulse omnium paspalorum, cuve semina matures- 

 cent juxta margines transversse plicatas fiunt." If this means that 

 the glumes of all Paspalums when mature have transverse plica- 

 tions such as mark the P. plicatulum, Michx., it is a great error. 



11. P. angustifolium, Le Conte. 



The specimen bearing this name is evidently one of the forms 

 commonly called P. laeve, Michx., having long, narrow and smooth 

 leaves, and three slender spikes three to four inches long. It is 

 quite different from No. 5, which represents a form with much 

 shorter and wider leaves, and which is possibly the typical plant, 

 as Michaux says " foliis breviusculis." No subsequent writer 

 except Elliott, however, quotes these words of Michaux. Gray says 

 " the pretty large and long leaves ;" Chapman says " leaves and 

 sheaths smooth or the latter hairy ;" Elliott quotes Michaux's 

 words, " leaves short," but does not recognize the plant. It is, 

 therefore, difficult to say precisely what was Michaux's type, and 

 some botanists will prefer to consider this species of Le Conte as 

 a distinct one. Otherwise, it may be distinguished as variety 

 angustifolium. 



12. P. gracile, Le Conte. 



The two specimens bearing this name, one ticket marked " Pas- 

 palum gracile mihi, P. laeve, Schweinitz," the other " Paspalum 

 tenue, Kth., P. gracile, Le Conte, 'Durand,'" are clearly what 

 is commonly understood as P. plicatulum, Michx., or P. undula- 

 tum, Poir. Kunth published P. tenue, evidently based either on 

 Le Conte's specimens or on the description to which he refers. If 

 Kunth saw the specimens, and they were the same as these in the 

 Herb. Acad. Phil., it is not easy to understand how he should 

 make a new species of them, unless, as may be the fact, Michaux's 

 plant is the P. purpurascens, Elliott, in which case indeed another 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



name would be needed for Le Conte's plant, and as the name P, 

 gracile had been earlier appropriated by Rudge for a S. American 

 plant, Kuuth distinguished this by the name of P. tenue. An 

 inspection of the Le Contean specimens in the Herb. Mus. Paris 

 will probably settle this question. Kunth, however, refers 

 Michaux's P. plicatulum not only to P. pitrpurascens, Ell., but 

 also to P. undulatuvi, Poir, as if Michaux had confused two 

 species, which is very likely to be the case. On the other hand, 

 if Kunth saw Le Conte's specimens, and they were like these of 

 the Herb. Acad. Phila., he should have recognized them as the 

 P. undulatum, Poir. 



Le Conte, at the end of his description of this species, sa3^s, 

 " Muhlenberg Gram, sub Paspalo,No. 8," with the description of 

 which Le Conte's does not agree. Furthermore, there is in Herb. 

 Torrey a specimen of Paspalum setaceum, Michx., which is also 

 referred to '' Pasp. No. 8, Muhl. Gram.," and which agrees suffi- 

 ciently well with the description. 



i;5. P. altissimum, Le Conte. 



The single specimen to which this name is attached is evidently 

 what is commonly called P. Floridanum, Michx., for which, 

 according to Kunth, the earlier name of P. macrospermum^ 

 Flugge, must be adopted. Le Conte's specimen has only two 

 spikes, although his description says " spicis 4-5." The species, 

 however, or some forms of it, often have 4 to 5 spikes. One 

 form has pubescent leaves or sheathes, and one form is quite 

 glabrous. Le Conte mistook his No. 5 for P. Floridanum^ Michx. 



11. P. confertum, Le Conte. 



The specimen to which this name is attached is evidently P. 

 purpurascens^ Ell. Mr. Durand recognized this and attached a 

 ticket marked " resembling P. purpurascens, and I believe iden- 

 tical, E. D." On the same sheet is another specimen of the same 

 species, ticketed "P. putyurascens, Ell., Georgia, Dr. Baldwin." 

 Kunth gives both P. purpurascens, Ell., and P. confertum, 

 Le Conte, as if they were distinct plants. Probably he did not 

 see Le Conte's specimens. 



15. P. distichum, Linn. 



I find no specimens with a ticket in Le Conte's writing, but 

 there are in a sheet marked P. distichum, specimens noted as 

 coming from Le Conte, and others, Georgia, Baldwin. The 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



description of Le Coute seems to refer to P. distichum, Linn., 

 but at the end he gives, as a synonym, Digitaria paspalodes, 

 Michx,, which is understood b}^ Elliott and by Dr. Chapman as 

 appl3'ing to Paspaluvi Digitaria, Poir, which seems not to have 

 been known to Le Conte, unless he agreed with Elliott in referring 

 it to the genus Milium^ in which case it would not appear in a 

 revision of Paspalum. 



16. p. tristachyum, Le Conte. 



The specimen bearing this name is apparently a three-spiked 

 form of P. vaginatum, Swz. The description also conforms to 

 that species, and Mr. Le Conte adds the remark, " Refert prius 

 sed primo obtuto facile distinguitur, foliis angustis glaberrimus. 

 Habitat in subsalsis, Georgia." 



Mr. Bentham considers P. vaginatum, Swz., as sj'non^'mous with 

 P. distichum, Linn., but the two are well defined by Le Conte, 

 and I think are clearly distinct, although with poor or imperfect 

 specimens it is not always easy to discriminate. Although this 

 species commonly has but two spikes, it sometimes occurs with 

 three. 



17. P. membranaceum, W;ilt. 



I find no specimen of this species with Le Conte's ticket, but 

 from the description, and the reference to P. vaginatum, Ell., it 

 is pretty clearly the P. Walterianum, Schultes. 



18. P. natans, Le Conte. 



I find no specimen with Le Conte's ticket, but from the descrip- 

 tion and reference to P. mucronatum, MuhL, and the additional 

 notes, it can hardly be doubted that this is the P.Jiuitans, Walt. 

 (Ceresia Jiuitans, Ell,). 



Mr. Le Conte undoubtedly observed and collected many of the 

 species of Paspalum in Georgia, where he spent many 3'ears of 

 his early life ; he was also acquainted with Baldwin and Elliott. 

 The latter had already published the earlier numbers of his 

 " Sketch of the Botany of S. Carolina" before the appearance of 

 Le Conte's Monograph, and Elliott is referred to in Le Conte's 

 Paspalum, No. 17. Reference is several times made to Pursh 

 and Muhlenberg, whose works had been published but a short 

 time. Michaux described seven species of Paspalum, all of 

 which are referred to by Le Conte. Muhlenberg describes ten 

 species, including two to which he gave numbers without specific 




290 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



names, and to these Le Conte makes reference, No. *l under his 

 P. diforme, and No. 8 under his P. gracile, but a comparison of 

 the descriptions does not afford much satisfaction. Elliott 

 described eleven species of Paspalum, or thirteen, if we include 

 his Milium paspalodes and Ceresia fluitans. The monograph of 

 Le Conte enumerates eighteen species, of which four or five had 

 not been previously described and m^y be counted new species 

 or varieties. All these are indigenous to the Atlantic States ; 

 the additional ones of the Southwest had not, probably, been 

 collected at the time of this monograph. 




1886.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 291 



July 6. 

 Mr. UsELMA C. Smith in the chair. 

 Seven persons present. 



July 13. 

 Mr. Thos. Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Ten persons present. 



On Torsion in the Hollyhock, with some observations on cross- 

 fertilization. Mr. Meehan observed that the torsion of the 

 opening flowers of the hollyhock was towards the sun ; but after 

 the expanded flower had become fertilized, and the flower closed 

 for fading, the torsion was in the contrary direction. The same 

 thing occurred in Hibiscus rosa-sinensis. He had no opportunity 

 to this date to note the facts in other Malvaceae.^ As a general 

 rule the spiral revolutions of plants are uniform through every 

 stage of growth, at least this is the general teaching of botanists. 

 Prof. Goodale notes (" Bot. Text Book," vol. ii, p. 407), that in 

 the Tropics, some plants twine indifferently from right to left. 

 If we had given thought to the manner in which secund inflores- 

 cence is arranged, we might have seen that the torsion is anything 

 but uniform throughout the same plant, for a secund raceme 

 could only be formed by the twisting of each succeeding flower 

 in an opposite direction. This alternation of convolution is 

 indeed necessarj' in a branch with a horizontal direction in order 

 that each flower along the spiral should assume an erect attitude. 

 When a horizontal or geotropic branch assumed an upright posi- 

 tion, the inflorescence was necessarily secund. One might almost 

 infer that secund inflorescence had its origin in geotropic plants 

 which had retained the power of alternate torsion after assuming 

 the erect form. So little is known of the laws operating in 

 connection with the turning habits of plants and flowers, that 

 every fact is of value, and this one relating to the reversal of the 

 direction in these two malvaceous plants, and probably in others 

 of the same order, must be worth placing on record. 



Mr. Meehan farther noted that the hollyhock, notwithstanding 

 its gaudy coloring and general attractions to insects, is a self- 

 fertilizer, and that insects I'ather aided than otherwise in this 



^ The author has since noted that in Palava flexuosa the flower twists 

 also in the direction of the sun, and in the contrary direction when fading, 

 but in Gallirhcea involucrata the flower is twisted against the sun, when 

 fading as when opening. 




292 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



self-fertilization. The flower is strongly proterandrous. The 

 stamens are mature and shed their pollen co-incident with the 

 expansion of the corolla. The fasciculus of pistils at this time, 

 have not reached half their growth, and is completely covered 

 hy the stamens, which form a dense mass in the centre of the 

 flower. During the day, and the one succeeding, humble and 

 honey bees make this crown of stamens their resting-place. 

 During these two days the pistils have not yet thrust their 

 stigmas above the stamens that crown them. If now we cut a 

 flower through longitudinally, we shall find that a very large 

 quantity of pollen has fallen down within the bundle of pistils 

 this gathering of pollen being evidently aided by the feet of 

 insects that made a landing-place of the staminal crown. Up 

 to this time, however, the pistils not having come to maturity, 

 the pollen thrust in among them would have no physiological 

 significance. But on the morning of the third day, the pistils 

 protrude and are in receptive condition, and they bring up with 

 them large quantities of pollen, so completely covering the 

 surface of each pistil that it would seem almost impossible for 

 any grains of foreign pollen to find any lodgment for effective 

 use ; and though a grain of foreign pollen should get an oppor- 

 tunity to perform its function, it must be evident that the 

 flower's own pollen has the earliest opportunities for usefulness, 

 and must in almost every case be the fertilizing agent. An 

 interesting note may be here recorded in reference to the 

 power of own-pollen over fertilit}-. Mr. Darwin in his " Cross- 

 and Self-Fertilization," page 141, referring to his single experi- 

 ment among malvaceous plants. Hibiscus Africanus^ found a 

 larger number of cx'ossed flowers produced capsules than among 

 the self-fertilizing ones ; but in the case of these evidently self- 

 fertilized flowers, no one seemed to fail in producing seed 

 every pistil, indeed, producing a perfectly fertile carpel. At the 

 end of the third day the flowers closed, twisting in the opposite 

 direction, as already noted. 



On Projection of Pollen in the Flowers of Indigof era. Exhib- 

 iting some flowers of Indigofera Dosua, Mr. Meeiian remarked 

 that the peculiar bending back of the carina in the flowers 

 of Indigofera has been long known. Referring to the whole 

 genus, Don, in the General History of Dichlamydeous Plants, 

 published in 1837, says, " Keel furnished with a subulate spur on 

 both sides, at length usually bending back elastically." In 1863 

 Decandolle and Treviranus, in Botanische Zeitung, page 3, refer 

 to this bending back of the keel and say it is not an elastic 

 motion, but simply a falling down on the full development of the 

 flower ; and the latter remarks, as quoted by Henslow, that " all 

 these movements occur in the natural development of the parts, 

 and only after self-fecundation takes place." Dr. Hildebrand, in 

 the same magazine for 1866, seems to admit that finally the keel 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



will fall dow from sheer maturity, but thinks insects in the search 

 for honey may anticipate this natural development. The Rev. 

 Geo. Henslow, in the ix vol. (1868) of the Journal of the Lin- 

 nsean Society^ pfige 357, commenting on these statements, suggests 

 that though self-impregnation ma}^ be possible, the jerkings of the 

 stamens when the carina falls away, causes the pollen to scatter 

 over the insects, which then carry the pollen to other flowers. In 

 the X vol. (1869), p. 468, he notes that when the carina is liberated 

 it falls back with a jerk, as noted by Don, and that the stamens 

 fly up and closely press the vexillum. But no opportunity oc- 

 curred to him of observing what insects effected this process 

 which he accomplished artificially. In Mr. Meehan's grounds the 

 East Indian Indigofera Dosiia is a hardy shrub, and for the past 

 two years, he said, he had watched the behavior of the flowers, 

 and the insects that visited them. The carina is arched and 

 hooded, and extends so far over the apex of the stigma, against 

 which it presses, that both the stigma and column of stamens are 

 borne down to a right angle with the vexillum. The effort of the 

 stamens and pistil to rise, and of the carina to recurve, keeps 

 these portions in an exactly horizontal position. The anthers 

 burst while thus enclosed in the carina, but the pollen does not 

 escape, nor does it reach the stigma, for the pistil extends beyond 

 the anthers, and its apex is pressed strongly against tlie carina, 

 and no pollen can possibly reach the apex. The two wings of 

 the flower are caught in the subulate spurs, and are borne down 

 to the horizontal plane with the carina, and together form a level 

 platform on which insects in search of honey alight. Humble- 

 bees, hone3''-bees, and numerous species of sand wasps visit the 

 flowers, but in no instance was an insect's visit found to be effectual 

 in liberating the stamens and pistil from the gi'asp of the carina. 

 This was only accomplished by slitting the upper portion of the 

 carina with a penknife. Then the divided carina would instan- 

 taneously fall back, and the stamens and pistil jerk upwards, 

 scattering a little cloud of pollen in every direction. In some 

 cases pollen so scattered would light on a stigma, but in many 

 cases the pollen would be so completely projected that none 

 could be ti'aced to the stigma, and these probably received 

 pollen from the upper flowers where they in turn projected their 

 pollen. Possibly many were by this time too mature to profit by 

 the pollen they received, at any rate only a very small pro- 

 portion of the flowers matured seed vessels. In the older 

 flowers, the carina evidently became separated from the stamens 

 and pistil only when withering away. 



Mr. Meehan remai'ked in conclusion, that, as noted by authors 

 quoted, so far as his observations in this part of the world 

 (Philadelphia) with this single species goes, the behavior of the 

 flowers were neither favorable to self-fertilization nor cross- 

 fertilization. If insects had pollen scattered on them, there is 

 no way by which it could be communicated to the pistils of 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF tHE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



other flowers. The stamens were not liberated naturally till the 

 flower had lost all attractions for insects, and the act of 

 liberating and scattering the pollen gave the pistil its first chance 

 for pollinization. The great probability is that in the majoiity of 

 instances the flowers are self-fertilized. 



On rarallelism in Distinct Lines of Evolution. Exhibiting 

 some oak and chestnut leaves, Mr. Meehan remarked that the 

 fact and the theory of evolution are distinct lines of thought. 

 There seems no difficulty about the fact. That one form may 

 and has been born of a pre-existing, and often very distinct form, 

 cannot be disputed. What induces this change is another matter. 

 It is here that science desires more light. A popular belief is 

 that change of circumstances leads to change of form. This 

 theory is embodied under the word " environment." In other 

 words, plants, in their changes, are the " creatures of circum- 

 stances." In some sense .this must be true. A seed will not sprout 

 unless there be a necessary " environment " of heat and moisture, 

 but this is not the sense in which " environment," as the term is 

 here used, is generally'- understood. If one were to say that under 

 a torrid temperature, endured for ages, a light-skinned, fair-haired 

 Caucasian, might have descendents that were like woolly-headed, 

 dark-skinned negroes, it would come nearer the general understand- 

 ing of the term " environment," than some would limit it to. The 

 speaker's observations and studies had led him to what might, 

 perhaps, be regarded as the minority view. Circumstances 

 " environment " seemed to have no further influence than to 

 incite to action a change already ripe for development. In a 

 paper read before the Amet'ican Association for the Advancement 

 of Science, 1874 (See Proceedings Hartford Meeting, p. 6, Natural 

 History), he presented a number of facts to show that "change 

 by gradual modification is not the universal law." New forms 

 "jumped " into existence, and frequently these new forms were 

 diverse from each other, under precisel}^ the same " environment " 

 so far as human knowledge had j-et reached, as had been the sur- 

 rounding circumstances of the parent form. Since that time he 

 had contributed numerous observations to the Proceedings of the 

 Academy and elsewhere, confirming these views. 



To-night he would offer to the Academy some thoughts in a 

 new line, but confirmatory of the same views. He exhibited some 

 different forms of the American Quercus Prinus the chestnut 

 oaks, and a dwarf species from China, Quercus Chinensis of 

 Bunge. Also some specimens of various forms of Castanea Vesca 

 the chestnut, and of Castanea pumila, 3Ix., the chinquapin. It 

 would be conceded by any evolutionist conversant with plant 

 forms, that the chestnut and the oak are not remotely descended 

 from the same parent. We may suppose, for the sake of argument, 

 that " use or disuse," or some other item in the general catalogue 

 of " environment " had affected some portion of the structure of 

 the original parent, and resulted in a slight modification, leading 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 295 



towards an ultimate oak or a chestnut, as the case may have been. 

 But when we take the subsequent changes the evolution of the 

 species of oak, and the species of chestnut, each class from its 

 primordial oak or chestnut, and observe the same parallel lines 

 of change in each, it is difficult to conceive how this exact paral- 

 lelism could have come about except under a fixed law of change, 

 which provides that when changes occur they shall be in strict 

 accordance with a prior plan by which nature herself is bound 

 laws by which, if we could only ascertain them, we could ourselves 

 foresee and define the forms that are yet to be a thousand years 

 beyond our time, and which no mere accidents of environment 

 could alter or delay. 



The oaks exhibited, though when we have the fruit we can see 

 they are oaks, have the foliage so like the chestnut that it is 

 difficult to determine them. The dwarf species from China is so 

 nearly like a chestnut, that only by the absence of the setaceous 

 teeth that edge the chestnut leaf, can we see any difference. But 

 the leaves are of a thicker texture than the other chestnut oaks 

 the serratures are finer and closer together, and the undersurface 

 of the leaf is cinereous, while the chestnut oaks exhibited in com- 

 parison are of the same tint on both sides. 



Now we take the chestnuts. We have the larger growing 

 species as we have the larger growing chestnut oaks the leaves 

 are light green on both sides, and vary in the toothing, just as 

 the chestnut oaks do variation in each class is exactly parallel. 

 The parallelism extends to the formation of a dwarf species. We 

 have a dwarf chestnut, Castanea pumila,]nst as we have a dwarf 

 chestnut oak, Quercus chinensis, and the parallelism extends to 

 the sub-characters, for the dwarf chestnut, the chinquapin, has 

 leaves of a thicker texture, the serratures are finer, and the under- 

 surface of the leaf is cinereous, while the chestnuts exhibited are 

 of the same tint on both sides. 



Mr. Meehan finally remarked that the facts seemed to him 

 stronger arguments in favor of evolution than many usually 

 offered. That the changes in two very distinct genera that we 

 only assumed to be syngenital, should be so nearly of a parallel 

 character in each, is proof they were carrying out a plan originally 

 common to both. While the fact that these original provisions, 

 as we must regard them, for these special forms have been so 

 faithfully carried out the one on the American continent, the 

 other in Eastern Asia despite the varying conditions of mere 

 " environment," shows how light a factor external circumstances 

 are in the evolution of forms. 



July 20. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan, Yice-President, in the chair. 

 Thirteen persons present. 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



July 27. 



Dr. J. Bernard Brinton in the chair. 



Thirteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " Histor}- and Biology- of Pear Blight," by J. 

 C. Arthur, was presented for publication. 



August 3. 

 Mr. Thos. Meehan. Yice-President, in the Chair. 

 Eleven persons present. 



Oriskany Sandstone in Lycoming Co., Pa. Mr. Lewis Wool- 

 man remarked that, accompanied by a resident of Lycoming Co., 

 Pa., he had recently made a tour through that and the adjoining 

 county of Sullivan', with an eye to the geological features of the 

 resion, using as a guide the most recent publications of the 

 Second Survey. In" Hand Atlas X, the Oriskany formation is 

 omitted from the map of Lycoming County, while the text speaks 

 of it as " being absent."' It is also omitted from the larger map 

 accompanying'the Second Survey. He was, therefore, surprised to 

 find on the roadside, at the village of Pennsville. Mimcy Town- 

 ship, blocks of the sandstone, containing its characteristic fossils. 



Further examination resulted in finding a belt of this forma- 

 tion ; not. however, making the bold, elevated ridge it so often 

 does elsewhere in the State, but existing as a prominence upon 

 the lower slope of the hill that rises from the north side of the 

 village, the ascent beyond being over the lower members of the 

 Hamilton group. Time at command being limited, the formation 

 was traced only about a mile, but without finding it to disappear. 

 The Friends' meeting house at one end of the village, and the 

 schoolhouse at the other end, both stand upon this ridge. The 

 former has its comers pointed with this sandstone, from an old 

 quarry in sight, while all around the latter are strewn weather- 

 worn fragments, beautifully exhibiting the fossils. Several of the 

 houses and barns intermediate are also situated upon this forma- 

 tion, and for some of these it has furnished building material. 



The location of the belt is within the area shown on the maps 

 as Hamilton, and a few hundred feet from the division there 

 marked as separating that group from the Lower Helderberg. 

 Along the lawn leading to the country residence of William 

 EUicott, the rock was seen in place, pointing upward over the 

 anticlinal forming Bald Eagle Mountain. A letter from his com- 

 panion states that he has since found this rock upon the other 

 side of the mountain, in Clinton township. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29t 



Upon careful comparison of fossils in fragments brought home, 

 the following were identified as exactly agreeing with those 

 figured by Hall, from the Oriskany of New York, viz. : Spirifer 

 arenosus, Spirifer arrectus and Bensselaeria ovoides. 



August 10. 

 Mr. Tiios. Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Fifteen persons present. 



Notes on Lilium tigrinum, Gaul. Mr. Meehan remarked that 

 on the Tth of August he was attracted by the large number of 

 honey bees (Italian) among the flowers of Lilium tigrinum. 

 There were hundreds of flowers, and every flower had from one 

 to six bees in them. They were not coming and going with the 

 usual expedition of honey-seeking or pollen-collecting workers, 

 but were taking things leisurely, as when feasting on a ripe peach, 

 or some other soft, sweet, and spongy fruit. It was found that 

 they were feeding or sucking the juices from the papillae that 

 form a ridge at the base of each division of the perianth. These 

 papillje are very numerous, minute and transparent, under a lens 

 resembling ice crystals. They are formed in two lines, but ap- 

 proximate till they resemble a single gray line, extending from 

 the base upwards for an inch in the centre of the segment. 

 Several sj^ecies of butterflies notably some large Papilios, and 

 some smaller Eudasmias, were sharing the repast with the bees. 

 An examination showed that the papillse had been pretty well 

 " chewed " up the term " chewing " being used notwithstanding 

 the seeming impossibility from the structure of the bee's mouth, 

 that it 'can chew in the ordinary acceptatioii of the term. A 

 quantity of this papillose matter, gathered together on the point 

 of a penknife, did not indicate any sweetness, or anything beyond 

 moisture that would be popularly supposed to prove attractive 

 to bees. Inside a flower just ready to expand, a considerable 

 amount of moisture is excreted from the surface of the perianth. 

 In this liquid no sweetness, but some slight astringency could be 

 detected. Not even at the base, where in flowers nectar is usu- 

 ally secreted, could any sweetness be detected. It has been 

 broadly stated that color and fragrance are of use to flowers only 

 as they may serve to attract insects for purposes of poUinization ; 

 and that gaudy flowers have no fragrance. But some gaudy lilies 

 are very sweet, and here we have a gaudy flowered species that 

 seems to have nothing in the way of sweets after an insect has 

 been attracted. Though feasting on the cellular matter, the bees 

 in no way assist in pollination. It is difficult to imagine what 

 relation the bees can have to any good economy in plant life in 

 this instance. The plant produces no fruit in this part of the 

 20 




298 PROCEEDINaS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



world ; but this is evidently from some failure of nutrition, for 

 when it is served with its own pollen, or the pollen of other plants 

 or other species, it is alike barren. 



At pages 412, 413 in the Proceedings of the Academy for IStS, 

 he had called attention to the fact that in many species of lily, 

 where the flower is cernuous, the point of bending straightened 

 after fertilization; and the ovarium, pendulous in flower, became 

 erect. There are some in which the flowers are always erect, and 

 they seem to be just as successful in their several economies, as 

 those that are at first cernuous, and afterward erect. At that 

 time, with this reflection, it seemed to him reasonable to suppose 

 that the bending down of the flowers in some species was not a 

 matter of choice with the flower if one might metaphorically use 

 this expression but was the result of a curving of the stem made 

 for some other reason in plant economy than for good to the 

 flower or its special objects alone. But here were some specimens 

 of Lilium tigrinum that had blown over when young. The 

 pedicles from these stems went straight down towards the earth 

 and bore the expanded flower without the slightest curve. The 

 flowers on the erect stems are all on recurved pedicels. Though 

 we are still without light as to what advantage the recurved forms 

 gain over the erect ones, this little incident teaches us, at least, 

 that it is the flower that demands the curve, and not a case of a 

 curve demanding a pendulous flower. 



Fishing Lines and Ligatures from the Silk-glands of Lepi- 

 dopterous Larvae. A communication was received from Miss 

 Adele M. Fielde, stating that in the locality from which she 

 wrote, Swatow, China, the silk-glands are taken from the larvjie 

 of several species of large lepidopterous insects just before tiiey 

 enter the pupa stage, and are made into fishing lines. At this 

 period in the life-history of the insect, the glands are full of the 

 viscid white substance from which the cocoon is to be spun. The 

 silk-glands of a species of Atlas were found to be one yard long, 

 a tenth of an inch in diameter at the free, posterior end, and a 

 hundredth of an inch in diameter at its anterior end. The two 

 glands extend nearly the whole length of the body cavity, on 

 either side of the alimentary canal, lying in loops of varying 

 length, and uniting in a single duct under the mouth, as in the 

 silk-worm, Bomhyx mori. The Cliinese make a transverse cut 

 across the back of the caterpillar, take hold of one of the loops 

 of the silk-gland, draw it out entire, drop it in vinegar to take 

 off its external coat, then stretch it to double or treble its 

 original length, and dry it. A durable filament is thus formed, 

 strong as catgut, and much cheaper. The tenacit}' of the fila- 

 ment is constantly restored by soaking it for a few minutes in 

 warm rice-water, that is, in the water in whicli rice has been 

 boiled for food. The fishermen say that when thus prepared a 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



line will hold the largest fish taken on the coast. It was found, 

 however, that a single filament would not sustain more than 

 four and a half pounds. Dr. Causland, in charge of the Hospital 

 in the English Presbyterian Mission at Swatow, had successfully 

 used these filaments for tying arteries in surgical operations. 

 It was suggested that the cocoon-spinning lepidoptera of the 

 United States might furnish in their silk-glands, for the joining 

 of wounds, a thread which would have all the virtues of spun 

 silk, without its objectionable traits. Silk-worms have been 

 successfully reared in the neighborhood of Swatow, on lettuce, 

 the silk from such caterpillars being coarser than that from 

 those fed on mulberry leaves. 



August It. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Twelve persons present. 



On the Effect of Scorpion Stings. The following communica- 

 tion was read from Mr. Edw. H. Thompson, United States Consul 

 at Merida, Province of Yucatan : 



" I am advised of an interesting letter from Dr. Gonzalez, of 

 Durango, read by Dr. Leidy before the Academy, in which men- 

 tion was made of the extremely venomous character of the 

 Mexican Scorpion. 



" I would state that while many cases of scorpion stings have 

 occurred within the range of my personal observation, I have yet 

 to record one that has even approached a fatal termination. 

 During the month of January last, while exploring some of the 

 ruined cities of the interior, two of my men, native Mayas, were 

 stung by scorpions dislodged from the ruined walls, one receiving 

 a sting upon his shoulder, while the other was punctured directly 

 upon his naked back, and very close to the spine. 



" The man receiving the sting upon his shoulder was soon 

 relieved by a few applications of strong ammonia. The other 

 complained for some time of a numbness almost approaching 

 paralysis. This feeling, however, was not sufficient to prevent 

 him from keeping upon his horse. After I had applied the 

 ammonia, and when at the end of a hard day's ride we dismounted, 

 he had practically recovered. 



" Of thirteen cases noted by me within a short while, but two 

 were of a serious nature. One was the case of my native boy, 

 and the other was that of a young Englishman who, stung upon 

 the thumb, remained in an almost paralyzed state for several 

 hours, eventually recovering. It may be well to state, in relation 




300 rROCEEDINQS OF TIIE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



to this case, that the 3"0ung man had been in the country but a short 

 while, and was at the time exhibiting the phj^sical effects of such 

 a radical change of climate. 



" In making the above statements I do not wish it to be under- 

 stood that I impugn the truth of the statements of Dr. Gonzalez. 

 Durango and Yucatan are two States in the Mexican Republic 

 widely separate, and circumstances governing as facts in the one 

 may not so govern in the other." 



Tlie Form of the Pupil in Snakes. Mr. Lockington stated 

 that amongst the colubriform snakes, the Boidje, a familj^ which 

 has its headquarters in South America, and has representatives 

 in the West of this country, have elliptical vertical pupils, like 

 those of rattlesnakes. At least, this is the case with Boa con- 

 strictor^ B. eqiies, Eunectes muriniis (the anaconda), Xijjhosoma 

 caninum, and Xomolochirus multisectus. The Acrochordidse, or 

 wart-snakes of eastern Asia, have circular pupils. The ven- 

 omous snakes with fixed fangs are usualh' classed in three 

 families : Elapidse, Naiidse, or cobras, and Hydrophidse, or sea- 

 snakes. Some herpetologists unite the first two families. As 

 far as the shape of the pupil goes, they seem to agree. Naja 

 tripudians, the cobra, Naja haje, the African asp, Pseudechis 

 porphyriacus, Sipedon haemachates, have circular pupils, as well 

 as the species of Bungarus and Elaps. The sea-snakes, so far as 

 examined, have circular pupils. This is the case with the com- 

 mon and well-known Pelamys bicolor, with Hydrophis palami- 

 doides, H. gracilis, H. nigrocinctus, Disteira dumerilii, and Pla- 

 turus fasciatus. 



Among the snakes with movable fangs, the Crotalidse (rattle- 

 snakes), and among the Yiperidse, examples of the genera Clothe^ 

 Pelias, Vipera and Cerastes, have elliptical pupils, but Causus 

 rhombeatus (Causidse) has rounded ones. It is thus evident that 

 the form of the pupil has no relation to the venomous or non- 

 venomous character of the snake. 



August 24. 

 Mr. Thos. Meehan, Yice-President, in the chair. 



Nine persons present. 



A paper entitled " On the Fertilization of Cassia Marylandica," 

 by Thomas Meehan, was presented for publication. 



The death of Wm. R. Cruice, M. D., a member, August 15, 

 1886, was announced. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 30l 



August 31. 

 The President, Dr. Jos. Leidy, in tlie chair. 



Fifteen persons present. 



The death of Roger Sherman, a member, was announced. 

 C. L. Kilburn was elected a member. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : 




302 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



REVERSE VISION. 

 BY CHARLES MORRIS. 



The fact that we perceive objects in their correct position, 

 while their impression upon the retina is a reversed one, forms a 

 problem which has given rise to much speculation, often unprofit- 

 ably metaphysical, in the effort to explain it. None of these 

 theories of the older writers now remain current. More modern 

 authors give explanations which are little more satisfactory. 

 Giraud Teulon says : " The retina sees or localizes objects where 

 they are; that is what we call ' erect;' if the picture be reversed 

 it is a mere matter of geometry." Helmholtz says: "Our 

 natural consciousness is completely ignorant even of the exist- 

 ence of the retina and of the formation of images ; how should 

 it know anything of the position of images formed upon it ? " 

 It cannot be claimed that these remarks are explanations, and we 

 may proceed to the more elaborate theory advanced by LeConte, 

 in his work on " Sight." He remarks that " the retinal image 

 impresses the retina in a definite way. This impression is then 

 conveyed by the optic nerve to the brain, and determines changes 

 there. . . . And then the brain or the mind refers or projects 

 the impression outward into space as an external image, the sign 

 or facsimile of an object producing it." He proceeds: "The 

 law may be thus stated : When the rays from any radiant strike 

 the retina, the impression is referred back along the ray line 

 {central ray of the pencil) into space, and therefore to its proper 

 placed 



It cannot be said that his arguments are suflSicient to establish 

 this theory. That we mentally refer an impression to the nerve 

 extremity that received it is unquestionable, and where a limb 

 has been lost, impressions seem to be referred to the location of 

 the original nerve termination. But this is very probably a 

 result of long-continued hereditary influences, through which 

 each nerve becomes adapted to give a mental picture of the loca- 

 tion of its impressions, and continues to do so even if touched 

 at some intermediate point. In the case of sight, no localized 

 reference to the nerve extremity exists. In this sense the source 

 of our impression seems external to the body. And yet this is 

 in all probability equally a result of hereditary accommodation. 




1886,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



What we really perceive is the impression produced upon the 

 retina, which is transmitted by the optic nerve to the brain. The 

 theory that the brain o.r mind, by some secondary action, physically 

 refers this sensation back again to the nerve extremities, or even 

 projects it beyond them into space, along reversed lines, has no 

 warrant in known physiological facts. Far more probably the 

 seeming projection is a mental action only. Natural selection 

 may have adapted each nerve to yield a sense of the distance 

 and direction of its impressions and, therefore, of their external 

 location. An animal destitute of such sense would be unable to 

 estimate the exact point of a threatened danger, and only those 

 capable of localizing their sense impressions could survive. Yet 

 if the brain estimates the distance from which any sensation 

 comes only through conditions hereditarily existing in the trans- 

 mitting nerve, the idea of referred sensations, with all theories 

 based upon it, falls to the ground. The reference of a pain to 

 the natural location of an amputated foot would form a constituent 

 portion of the impression conveyed to the brain by the nerve 

 which formerly passed to that foot. In like manner the optic 

 nerve may, among its hereditaril3'-gained powers, have that of 

 refei'ring its impressions to a point beyond the nerve extremity 

 or in external space, the locality from which danger from visible 

 objects comes. But this would have no bearing upon the ques- 

 tion of the character of its impression, the retinal image as a 

 whole being mentally transferred to an external region, but in no 

 sense changed in character. The question seems to be solely one 

 of a certain power or strength possessed by the nerves, through 

 which each of them indicates that location of its impressions best 

 adapted to the efficiency of protective activity. In the case of 

 sight this distance would necessarily be beyond the actual posi- 

 tion of the retina, and external to the body. The same rule 

 holds good in the case of sound. In every case it is very prob- 

 ably a resultant of long-continued natural selection. 



We do not actually see objects. We simply perceive the 

 images of them which are impressed upon the retina. This 

 stands as a picture-plane between our mind and the universe. 

 We perceive the impressions with which it is affected incor- 

 rectly, if this affection is in any sense an incorrect one. But the 

 conception gained from these impressions is subject to mental 

 accommodations, the result of experience and of hereditary influ- 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



ences ; and wc may, therefore, gain a correct idea from au impres- 

 sion -which is physically incorrect. 



Though the retinal image seems to be referred by the optic nerve 

 to a position external to the eye, j^et it is certainly not exactly 

 located by the sense of sight, and the mental accommodations 

 above mentioned are the locating influences. It is said that to a 

 blind man suddenly restored to sight, the surrounding objects 

 seem like the details of a picture, and within easy reach. He 

 appears to see the retinal picture, somewhat projected, but with 

 no correction except that the reversal of the image does not 

 appear. Our perception of roundness or solidity is, then, a 

 result of experience. This is followed by a knowledge of rela- 

 tive distance, comparative location being one of the most appar- 

 ent relations between objects. But the actual distance of objects 

 which are somewhat removed from the body is learned by experi- 

 ence, aided by several of the senses. Of more distant objects, 

 we seldom properly estimate the actual distance. All this, how- 

 ever, is a result of the action of the reasoning powers, guided by 

 the senses. The evidence of the blind man assures us that what 

 we actually see is the retinal image, somewhat projected into 

 space, and differing from an ordinary picture mainly in that it is 

 perfect in its lights and shades, and thus forcibly tends to pro- 

 duce that illusion of solidity which is the effect sought in all 

 pictures. The only correction is that of the reversal of the 

 image. This correction, therefore, seems a natural one, inherent 

 in the sense or the mind. 



In attempting an explanation of this phenomenon, in view of 

 the considerations above taken, the question may be asked : In 

 what way can the mind discover that there is anything incorrect 

 in the direction of the retinal image? To do so it must have 

 some standard of direction with which the impressions upon 

 the retina can be compared, and their agreement or disagree- 

 ment observed. If there be any such standard, it must exist in 

 one of three locations : on the retina itself, in external nature, or 

 in the mind. If on the retina, it could only be some line, or 

 group of lines, apparent to sight, and serving as directive guides 

 with which to compare retinal impressions. It need not be said 

 that nothing of the kind exists. 



The standard of comparison, therefore, by whose aid alone we 

 can discover that the retinal image is reversed, if it exists. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



must do so either in the mind or in external nature. If it be 

 internal, it must be of the nature of an idea an innate sense of 

 absolute direction, a mental power by which we can at once 

 distinguish the truth or falsity of any apparent direction. That 

 we have any such idea of the absolute, is in itself highly improb- 

 able. It may, in fact, be readily disproved. We are aware that 

 the revolution of the earth on its axis reverses the absolute direc- 

 tion of all the objects upon its surface every twelve hours. And 

 yet this reversal is not perceptible to us. The direction of all 

 objects, as related to that of our bodies, remains unchanged, and 

 this relation is all that we perceive. Indeed, we must have 

 remained forever ignorant of the revolution of the earth but from 

 the fact that the spheres of space do not revolve with it. These 

 retain their positions in space, while those of all objects upon the 

 earth change. They, therefore, serve us as standards of compari- 

 son by whose aid we intellectually discover the earth's motion. 

 We never become sensibly aware of it, for the only motion 

 apparent to us is that of the spheres of space. We impute 

 motion to objects at rest, and rest to objects in motion. This 

 error could not arise, had we any innate idea of absolute direc- 

 tion, or an internal standard of comparison. Therefore the mind 

 in itself is incapable of perceiving that there has been a reversal 

 of the retinal image. It has no faculty of deciding on questions 

 of direction, and what is relatively correct is absolutely correct 

 to its perceptive powers. 



If we have no internal or retinal standard of direction, have we 

 any external one ? No object upon the earth's surface will serve 

 this purpose. The images of all objects alike are reversed upon 

 the retina. The same is the case in regard to the spheres of space. 

 They do not retain their true positions in this case, as in the 

 former case considered, but are reversed in direction, and the 

 whole universe is turned upside down by the crystalline lens of 

 the eye, and is perceived by the mind thus reversed. Though 

 nothing is absolutely correct, everything is relatively correct in 

 direction, and we have no guide to teach us that such a reversal 

 has taken place. 



The fact is that in this, as in the other case, we involuntarily 

 take our body as the measuring rod of the universe. Distance is 

 at first estimated by the length of the arm, dimension by the 

 spread of the fingers and the sweep of the arm, and direction by 




30fi PROCEEDINGS OE THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



that of the body. Our knowledge that the retinal image is 

 reversed is not gained by perception, but by our study of the 

 laws of optics. We conceive of a picture upon the retina whose 

 direction is reverse to that of tlie body, and are puzzled to under- 

 stand why the mind does not perceive it thus reversed. In this 

 we are comparing sensations with ideas. The image of the body 

 is also reversed upon the retina, and thus its direction, as optically 

 recognized, agrees with that of all other objects. Our accepted 

 standard of direction therefore fails us in this particular. The 

 universe, as perceived by the mind through the medium of the 

 e^^e, is relatively in harmony in all its particulars of direction 

 and position, and unless the mind had some innate conception of 

 absolute direction, it would be impossible for it to discover that 

 a reversal of the image had taken place. We have already shown 

 that it has no such innate ideasof direction, and is entirely depend- 

 ent upon its perceptions in this particular. The body, our accepted 

 standard of direction, is perceived to be erect as compared with 

 our perception of the earth's surface. All other objects upon 

 this surface bear the same relation to it, and we have no means 

 of discovering that we are optically deceived, except by a second- 

 ary process of reasoning, based upon the laws of optics. No 

 tree, for instance, could seem to us upside down unless the earth's 

 surface seemed upside down, which is impossible. 



The mystery in which this question has been so long involved, 

 therefore, vanishes when considered from this point of view. 

 The mind fails to discover that its optical image is reversed 

 simpl}' from the fact that this reversal includes all things, nothing 

 retaining its erect position to serve as a standard of comparison, 

 and from the second fact that the mind has no innate idea of 

 direction to make it aware of its error. There is no error in our 

 perception. Relatively it is in ever}- particular correct, and of 

 the absolute we have no knowledge except through the process of 

 reasoning.^ 



^ Since forming these theoretical views, the writer has become aware that 

 the same theory has been previously presented. Dr. William Mackenzie 

 "Physiology of Vision," London, 1841 says: "In the image on the 

 retina, the relative position of the parts of the object remain unchanged, 

 as well as its relations to surrounding objects. The images of all objects, 

 even those of our own bodies, are equally inverted on the retina, and there- 

 fore maintain the same relative position. Even the image of our hand, 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 30? 



while used in touch, is inverted. Hence, the notion is evidently absurd, 

 that infants at first see objects upside down, and learn to see things in their 

 proper positions, by comparing the erroneous information acquired by sight 

 with the accurate information acquired by touch. Many of the lower 

 animals manifest a perception of the true position of objects by means of 

 the sense of sight from the very first, and before any experience derivable 

 from touch can have had time to operate. To some philosophers, then, 

 there appears no difiiculty respecting erect vision, so long as all things 

 equally, and not some objects only, are seen by means of impressions coin- 

 cident with inverted images." He further says : "The mind neither views 

 the images on the retina, nor is in any way conscious of their existence." 



This theory is so identical with the one we have given, as to render the 

 latter, in a considerable sense, a repetition. Yet Mackenzie's views do not 

 seem well known, and are worth restating. Moreover, his theory is far 

 from being fully argued out, and no theoretical views can be held as in any 

 sense substantiated until they have been shown to be logically defensible. 

 This we have attempted to do. The hypothesis we have given of the prin- 

 ciple through which nerve impressions are mentally localized in position 

 has, we believe, not been previously advanced, but is here first presented. 




308 PROCEEDINGS OP *flE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



NOTICES OF NEMATOID WORMS. 



BY PROF. JOSEPH LEIDY. 

 Filaria scapiceps. 



Body cylindrical, nearly equally tapering at the ends. Cephalic 

 extremity abruptly narrowing, cylindric, rounded at the summit 

 and smooth. Mouth a terminal pore without labia, papillfe or 



inner armature. Caudal extremity 

 of female nearly straight, conical, 

 obtusely rounded, smooth, without 

 appendages ; of the male curved, 



Side view of the caudal extremity of conical, obtusely rounded alatc and 

 the male. 125 diameters. papillate ; alse half oval ; papillae 



five pairs, pyriform, successively decreasing to the last at the 

 end of the tail. Genital aperture opening between the ante- and 

 penultimate papillae ; penal spicules short, curved. 



Female 25 to 30 mm. long; 0*75 wide at middle; head O'ltS 

 wide. Male 12 mm. long ; 0-'6lb wide at middle. 



Eight females and five males were obtained from beneath the 

 skin of the hind foot of a rabbit, Lepus sylvaticus. 



Filaria obtunsa. 



Body cylindrical, nearly uniform ; head conical, obtusely 

 rounded, or rounded truncate, smooth ; mouth a minute central 

 pore, devoid of lips, papillje, or internal armature ; caudal end of 

 female straight, conical, obtusely rounded, devoid of papillse ; of 

 male abruptly narrowed, a length about equal to the breadth of 

 the body, nipple-shaped, obtusely rounded and devoid of papillte. 

 Female genital aperture near the head end. Male aperture ter- 

 minal ; penis of a longer curved spicule and a spiral one of half 

 the leligth. 



Female 4 inches or more long, 0*625 mm. wide. Male 2 inches 

 long, 0*5 mm. wide. Abundant in the visceral cavity of the 

 snow bird, Junco kyemalis.^= Filaria obtusa, Leidy, Pr. A. N. S., 

 1885, 10. 



In the meadow lark, Sturnella magna. = F. obtusa. Ibidem. 

 Chester Co., Pa. Obtained by Dr. B. H. Warren. 



Many specimens from the visceral cavity of the meadow lark 

 in the collection of the Army Medical Museum, Washington. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



Female from 4^ to 1| inches long, mostly to 6 inches ; width 

 0-625 mm. Male 2^ to 3^ inches. 



Four females and a male from the crow black bird, Quiscahis 

 purpureus. They are proportionately more robust than the 

 preceding. Female 4 inches long and 0-875 wide. Male 1\ inches 

 long and 0-5 mm. wide. Florida, Dr. B. H. Warren. 



I at first viewed this species as the Filaria obtusa, Rudolphi 

 (Diesing, Syst. Hel., ii, 267). The caudal extremity of the male, 

 with its penal armature, accords with Dujardin's figure of that 

 species (Hclminthes, Pt. iii, fig. i, 2). In F. obtiinsa I can detect 

 no buccal armature such as exists in F. obtufia, according to 

 Dujardin ; and later, Molin (Yersuch einer Monographic der 

 Filarien, Sitzungsb. Wien. Akad. Wis., 1858, 397). 



Filaria cirrura. 



Body c^dindrical, nearly equal, cephalic end conical, rounded 

 truncate, smooth ; mouth a m^inute funnel-like orifice without 

 papillae or interior armature ; caudal end of female slightly 

 curved or nearl}' straight, conical, obtusely rounded, without 

 appendages ; of male closely rolled inward, conical, blunt, 

 without alse or papillae ; penal spiculae strongly curved, with the 

 points projecting from the prominent genital aperture situated 

 above the tail end. 



Length of female 16 mm., breadth 0*5 mm. Length of male 

 10 mm., breadth 0-375 mm. 



Four females and two males from the orbit of the jackdaw, 

 Quiscahis major. Florida. Dr. B. H. Warren. 



Filaria nodulosa. Rudolphi. Diesing, Syst. Hel., ii, 274. 



Body cylindrical, nearly uniform, slightly more narrowed 

 behind ; head conical, obtusely rounded, with a circle of minute 

 tubercles. Caudal extremity of the female straight, conical, 

 obtuse ; of the male slightly curved, obtuse ; genital aperture a 

 little in advance of the tail end ; penal spicules short, curved. 



Female 3 inches long, 1 mm. wide. Male 1^ inches long, 0*5 

 mm. wide. 



One of each sex from beneath the skin of the head and neck 

 of a shrike, Collurio ludovicianus. Florida. Dr. B. H. Warren. 



Filaria stigmatura. 



Body filiform, nearly uniform c^dindrical, but attenuated at the 

 cephalic extremity ; head rounded truncate, smooth ; mouth 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



large, bordered by two or three ? minute, conical papillae, unarmed 

 within ; integument smooth throughout, not annulate. Female : 

 caudal extremity straight, smooth ; tail straight or sliglitly bent 

 back from tlie distinct anal aperture, conical, blunt. Male : 

 caudal extremity spirally enrolled two or three times, furnished 

 with narrow band-like granular alae sustained by twelve pairs of 

 ribs or cylindroid papillae, of which seven pair are preanal ; tail 

 curved conical, subacute ; penal spicules, one four times the 

 length of the other. 



Length of female 40 to 55 mm., breadth 0-5 mm. ; tail 0-3 long. 

 Length of male 24 to 30 mm. ; breadth 0.3Y5 mm. ; tail 0-25 from 

 genital aperture. Long penal spicule 0*88 mm. ; short one 0-2 

 mm. 



Pharynx cylindrical, 0-25 mm. long; oesophagus cylindrical, 

 slightly expanded at lower end, 3 mm. long ; intestine nearly same 

 diameter. Eggs thick shelled, oval, 0*04 long, 0*024 broad. 



A multitude of individuals obtained from the swimming blad- 

 der of the lake trout, Salvelinus namaycuah. Lake Superior. 

 Dr. James H. Bissel. 



The species bears considerable resemblance to Ancyracanthus 

 cystidicola (Rud, Schneider, Mon. d. Nematodon, 105), from a 

 like position of Salmo furio of Europe, but it possesses distinct 

 characters even generic. It also resembles Filaria denticulata 

 (lb. 102), but is devoid of the tegumentary spines and other char- 

 acteristic marks of that species. 



Filaria helecina. Molin, Sitzungsb. Wien. Akad. Wiss., lSo8, xxviii, 391. 

 Filaria aiihiufjir. AVyman, Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., 1868, 100. 

 Enstroniji/li(s. Packard, Hayden's Rep. U. S. Geol. Surv., 1873, 735. 

 Filaria Wymani. Leidy, Proc. A. N. S., 1882, 109. 



Numerous additional specimens from the brain of a dozen indi- 

 viduals of Plotus anhinga. Florida. Dr. B. H. Warien. 



Trichosomum tenuissimum. Diesing, Syst. Helm., ii, 256. 



Body cylindrical, obtuse at both ends, viviparous. Four females, 

 1 lines long by 0*25 mm. thick. Intestine of the dove, Zenaidura 

 carolinensis. From two birds. Florida. Dr. B. H. Warren. 



? Monopetalonema eremita. 



Body cylindrical, slightly narrowest anteriorly ; head with an 

 annular expansion of the integument, which is more dilated 

 below ; mouth with a pair of half-conical lips, divided into four 

 papillae at the apex ; tail short, straight, conical, obtuse. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



A single female 19 lines long and nearly 1 line thick at the 

 middle. Obtained by Dr. J. Van A. Carter, from the masseter 

 muscle of a badger, Melea labradorica, at Ft. Bridger, Wj'oming. 



The head and mouth have the characters of Physaloptera. Two 

 apertures are visible in advance of the end of the tail, one at the 

 distance of 025 mm., the othei- 0"625 mm. 



Ascaris simplex. Rudolphi, Diesing, Syst Ilel., ii, 155. 



A large quantity, from the stomach of a dolphin, Lagenorhyn- 

 chus? Pacific ocean. Dr. Wm. H. Jones, U. S. N. 



Ascaris compar. Schrank, Diesing, Syst. Hel., ii, 170. 



One male. If inches long. Intestine of the quail, Ortyx vir- 

 ginianus. Florida. Dr. B. H. Warren. 



Ascaris vesicularis. FroliHeh, Diesing, Syst. Hel. ii, 118. 



Two females and two males. Intestine of the quail, Ortyx 

 virginianus. Florida. Dr. B. H. Warren. 



Ascaris depressa. Rudolphi, Diesing, Syst. Hel., ii, 156. Intestine of Strix nivea, 

 Leidy, Pr. A. N. S, 1858, 112. 



Two females 2^ inches by 3 mm. Intestine of Sirix brachy- 

 otiis. Florida. One female 1| inches. Bubo virginianus. Chester 

 Co., Pa. Dr. B. H. Warren. 



Ascaris ensicaudata. RuJolphi, Diesing, Syst. Hel., ii, 184. 



Labia large and prominent ; apex of tail defined as a short 

 ensiform appendage. Five females, to 3 inches long, by 1 mm. 

 broad. Ejected from the mouth of a mocking bird, Mimus poly- 

 glottus. Jacob Geismer. 



Ascaris microcephala. Rudolphi, Diesing, Syst. He!., ii, 155. 



Numerous specimens from the stomach of the night-heron, 

 Nyctiardea grisea. Chester Co., Pa. G. W. Roberts, through 

 Dr. B. H. Warren. Specimens from Ardea herodias, Hydro- 

 nassa tricolor and Botaurus mugitans. Florida. Dr. Warren. 



Ascaris spiculigera. Rudolphi, Diesing, Syst. Hel., ii, 157. 



From Graculus dilophus, Plotus anhinga, Pelicanus trachy- 

 rhynchus and P. fuscus. Leidy, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1858, 

 110; 1882,109. Numerous additional specimens from the former 

 two birds. Florida. Dr. B. H. Warren. 



Ascaris tenuicollis. Rudolphi, Diesing, Syst. Hel., ii, llJO. 



Numerous specimens, all females, up to 1^ inches long, and 2 

 mm. thick. From the Alligator mississippiensis. 




312 rROCEEDiNas of the academy of [1886. 



Asoaris auoura. Dujardin, Diesing, Syst. ITel., ii, 161. 



Numerous females, 3 and 4 inches long to 2 mm. thick. These 

 were all suspended in the stomacli, through double apertures of 

 the mucous membrane, and thus tightl}^ retained in position. From 

 a snake, which, from the description, is supposed to be the milk- 

 snake, Opliiholus. Obtained by Dr. James Bissell, in the vicinity 

 of Harrisburg, Pa. 



Ascaris penita. 



Body cylindrical, tapering at the extremities, and most attenu- 

 ated in front ; mouth trilabiate. Tail of female, long, straight, 

 conical, subulate; of male of same form, strongly curved, with 

 the point brought near the genital aperture ; provided at the pos- 

 terior third with four pairs of papillae. Penal spiculte remark- 

 ably robust. 



Length of female 5 to 7 lines, by ^ line in width ; of male, to 

 5 lines, by O'SIS mm. in width. Numerous specimens from the 

 intestine of Trachemys scabra. Generative aperture of the 

 female at the posterior third of the body. QSsophagus long cyl- 

 indrical, followed by an oval or spherical gizzard. Commence- 

 ment of intestine dilated. CEsoph'agus 1'75 mm. long, by 0"125 

 wide : gizzard about 0'25. Tail of female r25 mm. lon<j;. 

 Breadth of penal spicules 0*08 mm. 



Physaloptera torquata. 



Body c^'lindrical, most attenuated anteriorly ; head with a con- 

 spicuous narrow annular fold or collar ; mouth bilabiate, labia 

 half conical with a pair of lateral papillse and the apex provided 

 with a group of four, of which one is external to the other. Tail 

 short, conical, obtuse, recurved from the anal aperture. 



Numerous specimens, all females, from 3 to 6 lines wide and 

 one-fourth of a line thick. Worms all more or less spirally coiled. 

 From the stomach of the badger, 3Ieles labradorica. 



Physaloptera turgida. Rudolphi, Diesiug; Syst. Helm., ii, 2o3. Leidy, Pr A. N. S., 

 1866, 53. 



From stomach of the opossum, Didelpliis virginiana. Collec- 

 tion of the Army Medical Museum, Washington. Also received 

 from Dr. Benjamin Sharp. 



Physaloptera abbreviata. Rudolphi, Diesing; .Syst. Helm., ii, 2.'i5. 



Numerous females from 3 to 8 lines, and three males about 2 

 lines. From the visceral cavity of Phrynosoma regale. Collec- 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



tion of the Armj' Medical Museum, Washington. Nose, mouth, 

 and throat of Phrynosoma hernandezi ; Souora, Mexico. Dr. T. H. 



Streets. 



Hedruris androphora. Nitzsch, Diesing ; Syst. Hel., ii, 205. 



Sijiiplectapeiidula Leidy, Pr. A. N. S., 1851, 2J:0 j 1856, 52. Diesing, Sitzungsb. 

 Wien. Akad. Wis., xlii, 1861, 647. 



Stomach of Nanemys guttatus. 



Cuculanus roseus. Leidy, Pr. A. N. S., 1851, 155 ; 185G, 54. 

 Intestine of 3Ianouria fusca, Java. 



Tropidocerca certa. 



.? Filaria diibia. Leidy, Pr. A. N. S., 1856, 55. 



Female subglobular, broader than long, divided into zones ; tail 

 abruptly projecting and conical. Male of the ordinary nematoid 

 shape, cylindrical, most attenuated in front. Mouth trilabiate. 

 Caudal extremity strongW rolled inwardly, sigmoid at the end, 

 which is conical, recurved from the genital aperture, mucronate 

 and alate ; alae half oval, narrowing to the end of the mucro, 

 which is truncate. Female 7 mm. long by 7 and 8 mm. broad. 

 Male 12 to 18 mm. long, and 0"375 to 0-5 wide. The specimens 

 of this curious parasite were contained in two spherical cysts in 

 the wall of the stomach of the albatross, Diomedia exulans. 

 Each cyst contained a corpulent female with severally four and 

 five males. Obtained by Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 



31 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



ON THE FEETILIZATION OF CASSIA MARILANDICA, 

 BY THOMAS MEEHAN. 



The relation of insects to flowers continues to be a question of 

 profound interest. It lias never been clear to my mind that 

 insects are any material aid to plants through the pollinization 

 which they often undoubtedly accomplish. There has been little 

 to prove that in-and-in or close breeding is an injurj^; and it has 

 been assumed that cross-breeding among plants must be a benefit, 

 solely because arrangements for its accomplishment surely exist. 

 I have shown in various papers (see chiefly Proceedings of 

 American Association for the Advancement of Science^ Detroit 

 meeting), that in a scheme of nature for progressive development 

 there must be provided arrangements for the removal of old as 

 well as for the introduction of new forms, and /rom the facts ad- 

 duced we have as much right to look on them in the light of 

 agencies for removal as for the strength and preservation of a 

 race. In my mind, the facts rather show that instead of any 

 material aid to the propagation of the race being gained, the 

 dependence of a plant on insect aid for fertilization is rather an 

 indication that its race is nearly run, and that it is on the down- 

 ward track in the order of nature. 



The assumption that cross-fertilization is a factor in develop- 

 ment instead of in degradation, has, I believe, been an injury to 

 the study of the main question, as it has led to generalizations 

 that cannot be sustained, and to assertions regarding facts that I 

 think would not have been made had not the observers been pre- 

 possessed in favor of this hypothesis. The followers of those 

 who have done so much to advance this branch of science, have 

 gone much further in their speculations than those who first 

 originated the line of thought ; and even the leading minds in 

 that path have often been the victims of an enthusiasm of which 

 their cooler moments would not approve. Here and there we 

 meet with statements by even such eminent naturalists as Darwin 

 and Asa Gray, that would seem to sustain the wide genralizations 

 of Grant Allen or Sir John Lubbock ; but a careful study of their 

 writings will show that they look on cross-fertilization as a fact, 

 and as a measure of race utility, from a much more limited field 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 315 



than the supporters of the wider speculations seem to believe. 

 It is not the most eminent writers who assert that " cross-fertiliza- 

 tion is the general rule," "the greater number of flowers are 

 cross-fertilized," etc. (see Popular Science Review^ 18Y3), though 

 the casual expression of Dr. Asa Gray, in his papers of 1877, 

 that " many flowers freely self-fertilize," certainly might imply 

 self-fertilizers to be a minority of the whole ; but the same eminent 

 botanist has also said " it is a common case that flowers cross- 

 fertilize when duly served by insects or wind, and self- fertilize 

 when not," and this by no means bears the impression that he 

 regards self-fertilizing flowers as composing a particularly limited 

 class. Indeed no one is more severe than Dr. Gray on theory- 

 makers who run off in haste on one line of facts. The true 

 sentiments of Dr. Gray are that " cross-fertilization, we may well 

 believe, is a very risky affair," and in view thereof very few plants 

 have become wholly dependent on this mode, but act on the rule 

 to prefer cross-fertilization " if they can," but failing in this, to 

 self-fertilize, " if they must." And, though it is not so generally 

 understood, I think a careful study of Mr. Darwin's works will 

 show that this is essentially his view also. 



Though unwilling to concede that any material benefit comes 

 to the races of plants from the aid which insects give to plants 

 by cross-fertilization, the fact that some species are evidently 

 wholly dependent on this agency for fertility, is no less interest- 

 ing, and any original observations must have value to the student 

 of this branch of science. 



Cassia, in a general way, has been a subject of study. In 1875 

 Dr. Leggett writes (Bull. Torr, Club, p. 171) that Dr. Torrey had 

 noticed the difficulty Cassia niclitans had in rejecting its pollen. 

 Dr. Torrey believed, however, that though the anthers seemed to 

 provide a pore at the apex for the emission of pollen, they finally 

 slit longitudinallj'^, and thus permitted the pollen to escape. Dr. 

 Leggett does not seem satisfied of this. In 1882, however, Prof. 

 J. E. Todd published some extremely interesting observations on 

 this species, and on Solarium rostratum, which has a similar 

 staminal arrangement (see Am. Naturalist. Ap. 1882, p. 281-287). 

 C. Marilandica is referred to as one that would probably behave 

 in the same way. Before noting what Mr. Todd saw in these, I 

 will note the observations I have made on this species. 



As nothing seems to have been placed on record in relation to 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



Cassia Marilandica, and I having a good opportunity for daily- 

 observation, I undertooli its close investigation this year. In 

 Cassia Marilandica the flower consists of five petals, as in other 

 leguminosae; but the two which usually unite and form the carina 

 are here distinct and spread widel}^, talking the place apparently 

 often occupied by the wing-petals. The two actual wing-petals 

 are somewliat erect and lap under the upper or vexilliim. This 

 arrangement gives the flower a "somewhat two-lipped appear- 

 ance." The style curves gradually, but more rapidly at the apex, 

 curving there so much that the stigmatic surface can scarcely be 

 closely examined without breaking the style. If the petals be 

 opened just before the natural time for their expansion, a globule 

 of liquid is pendant from the surface. Tlie stamens are arranged 

 in separate sets. Tliere are three beneath the pistil the two 

 lateral ones are very strong and equal the pistil in length the 

 central one immediately beneath the pistil is as long as those on 

 each side, but more slender. Immediately above tlie pistil are 

 four stamens, with short, stout filaments, the anthers being per- 

 fectly formed, and nearly as long as in the lower set. Above are 

 three petaloid stamens, which we can only see are staminal efforts, 

 by noting the intermediate stages of the several parts between 

 the stamens and petals. The only use for them seems to be to 

 afi'ord a good morphological lesson to the student. 



The most interesting feature of this Cassia is that the stamens, 

 not mono or diadelphous as in manj- leguminosae, have long, 

 black anthers, full of pollen, but which seem never to burst the 

 anther cases. The only " opening is at the apex," and this " open- 

 ing " is covered by a membrane never opening, as I believe, 

 except by insect agency. 



As soon as the flower expands it is freel}^ visited by humble 

 bees, and, as their loaded thighs evidence, for the pollen. To 

 collect this, they alight on the anthers of the long and lower 

 stamens, as on a platform make an opening in the apex of each 

 of the four shorter ones, and then rifle them of their contents. I 

 watched a mass of plants containing eight3'-eight flower stems, on 

 the 30th of July, and the same lot for an hour on 6th of August, 

 but saw no attempt to get pollen from the longer anthers, or to 

 use them in any way but as a platform. It would, indeed, be 

 hardly possible for the bee to stand anywhere so as to get power 

 to pierce the apical membranes of the longer stamens. When the 




1880.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 317 



flower matured, and the anthers were ready to fall, thej' were exam- 

 ined the four short ones were empty sacs the three lower ones 

 proved they had not served any purpose to the bees, for they 

 were full of pollen. There could be no doubt that, perfect and 

 full of pollen as thoj^ were, they served no purpose that I could 

 see either to the flower or to its insect visitors. Hive bees on 

 honey-collecting expeditions hunted around among the base ot 

 the petals, but were not, apparently, well rewarded for their work. 

 No pollen could be detected on the stigmatic surface; but as about 

 three out of every twelve flowers yielded a pod, they were evi- 

 dently fertilized in some way. On the 30th of July I covered 

 one panicle that had not yet opened a blossom, with a gauze bag 

 twelve inches wide and eighteen inches deep, tied at the bottom 

 to prevent ingress. Not one of these enclosed flowers produced 

 a seed vessel, nor could I see that any one anther " opened at the 

 apex." The membrane covered it as completely as it did in the 

 unopened flower. 



Now all these observations confirm those of Mr. Todd in the 

 other plants except in the following particulars : As in my 

 case, he found that the bees never attempted to collect pollen 

 from the longer and lower anthers, but " b}'' the movement of 

 her feet the larger stamen is repeatedly sprung backward, and 

 as often throws a cloud of pollen on one side of her body." I 

 am sure no pollen was ejected in this way from Cassia Marilan- 

 dica, for the membrane at the apex was not even ruptured when 

 the stamens were ready to fall. In regard to the manner in which 

 the pollen is extracted, he found that " this she does by seizing 

 each anther near its base between her mandibles, and, with a sort 

 of milking motion, crowds the pollen out of the terminal pore." 

 If this were the general way there would be no necessity for any 

 pollen being ejected from the long stamens, for the stigma would 

 certainly receive some during the " milking " process ; and the 

 pore at the apex in the long anther is beyond the line of the 

 stigma, so that on ejection from the pore the pollen would go 

 still further beyond. At any rate I am satisfied that in this 

 species the anther cases did not under my observation ultimately 

 split longitudinally, as stated by Dr. Torrey in an allied species, 

 nor was there any drawing out of the pollen, as observed by Prof. 

 Todd. It is abstracted solely through the pores; and although I 

 could see no evidence that such was actually the case, I suspect 




318 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



fertilization could only occur through some of this extracted 

 pollen escaping from the insect to the stigma. 



However, the fact was clearly demonstrated that Cassia Mari- 

 landica, in this experiment, does not produce a single seed, when 

 the flowers are protected from the visits of insects. 



This plant is the more interesting as it belongs to an order 

 -which the enthusiasts to whom I have referred, see " from its struc- 

 ture " to be so well " arranged for cross-fertilization,'' but which 

 those who, like the following author, have followed results, see 

 just the reverse. " To the casual observer of tj^pical structures 

 the papilionaceous plants must present the most difficult nut to 

 crack for a student of cross-breeding. * * * As might be expec- 

 ted from the structure of the flowers, we have in these plants 

 persistent examples of self-fertilization, and hence the constancy 

 of garden varieties " (Gard. Mag., Feb. 3, ISTT). 




1886.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 319 



September 7. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Thirteen persons present. 



September 14. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Thirty-four persons present. 



September 21. 



Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair. 



Twenty-four persons present. 



The death of Wm. P. Jenks, a member, was announced. 



Chinese Women and Spiritism. The following communication 

 was read from Miss Adele M. Fielde: In the eighth month 

 of the year, early in autumn, when the full moon is worshipped ; 

 when the gods of grain are rewarded with gifts ; when friends 

 exchange many souvenirs ; when the upper and nether worlds 

 are thought to touch boundaries, then the Chinese women meet 

 privately and fall into trances. Nearly all women are interested 

 in these secret sessions, but many are prevented from being 

 present by necessary occupations elsewhere, or by fear of rebuke 

 from the men of their households. These conclaves are entered 

 by women only, and are regarded by men with great disfavor. 

 The women assemble in an apartment where they- may be for a 

 few hours secure from interruption. From three to a dozen or 

 more gather around a table in the centre of the room. Incense- 

 sticks, spirit-money and bamboo-roots, bought by a previous con- 

 tribution of farthings, are distributed among all present. A 

 fetich of some sort, a decayed splint hat, an old broom, a chop- 

 stick, or possibly a more uncleanly object, taken from a rubbish 

 heap, is brought in, and spirit-money is burned before it, with 

 obeisances. Then those who desire to fall into trance sit down 

 at the table, throw a black cloth over the head, hold a sheet of 

 spirit-money and a lighted incense-stick between the palms before 

 the face, shut the eyes, and remain motionless and silent. Of the 

 other women, some light incense-sticks and whirl them around the 

 heads of the sitters ; some rap constantly, gently and rapidly, with 

 the bamboo-roots on the edge of the table ; some chant invoca- 




320 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



tions, petitioning the gods to admit these their children to their 

 aliode. Man3^ and diverse incantations are iterated. One, given 

 to rae by a woman who appeared to be an expert, may be trans- 

 lated as follows : 



Sister spirit, ghost of nun, Spirit, spiiit, come and reach 



Body take bv sharing one ; Hand to lead us ; vouchsafe speech ; 



Twu or three await tliee here. Be incarnate in us here ; 



Choo.-e in which thou wilt appear. Choose in whom thou wilt appear. 



Two or three of the women, perhaps, fall into trance. Their 

 doing so is indicated by their trembling violently, dropping the 

 incense-sticks they were holding, beginning to beat the table with 

 the palms of their hands, and to discourse incoherentl}'. They 

 speak of meeting their own lost friends, or those of other women 

 who are present. They weep bitterly while they appear to con- 

 verse with tlie dead. They describe streets, shops and houses 

 and say that certain person are engaged in agriculture or ti'ade. 

 Sometimes they, by request, make inquiry concerning the where- 

 abouts of a dead person, and then give the information that he 

 has been born into the human family for the second time. Some- 

 times they report that a dead neighbor is shut up in Hades with 

 nothing to eat but the salted flesh of the infant daughters she 

 destroyed when she was alive. 



Many women go to these meetings merely as observers ; many ' 

 more go in order to avail themselves of what the}' believe to be 

 an opportunity to hear from dead relatives ; a few go with the 

 hope that they may themselves fall into trance, and see the spirit 

 of some recently deceased friend. It is said that those who wish 

 to enter Elysium and see the dwellings of the gods and geni, 

 must make the attempt in the forenoon, while those who wish to 

 visit lower spheres get admittance only in the afternoon. 



As no pecuniary benefit accrues, directly or indirectly, to the 

 actors in these scenes, there is less reason for suspecting conscious 

 deception than in the case of the public interpreters for the gods. 



No foreign lady can get access to these sittings, and no native 

 Christian woman is admitted to them. It is said that no one falls 

 into the trance-state, if a Monotheist be within sight or hearing. 

 My knowledge is gained wholly from a score of Chinese women, 

 now my pupils, who in former years attended these sittings, and 

 who have described to me the scenes of the eighth month. 



Throughout the whole there is indication that the minds of the 

 women are, during these trances, moving in customary grooves. 

 They evidently see what they expect to see. The gardens of 

 Elysium are laid out in Chinese style; the architecture of the 

 buildings is Chinese ; the punishments are those made familiar to 

 the imagination by Buddhism and Tauism ; the costumes, the 

 implements, and the paraphernalia are such as are common in 

 Swatow. These seekers after truth in the land of shades bring 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 32l 



back no ideas save those which the}- took with them when starting 

 on tlieir quest; and this leniils one to doubt, in spite of their dis- 

 heveled hair, paUor and exhaustion, whether they have after all 

 really been away from home. 



At nightfall the supposed traveler is lured back by incantations, 

 and then she slips slyly back into her accustomed duties, with no 

 chance, for another whole year perhaps, to take a jaunt either 

 with body or soul, 



Swatow, China, August 1, 1886. 



September 28. 



Mr. W. W. Jefferis in the chair. 



Seventeen persons present. 



The death of Charles Baeder, a member, was announced. 



Richard H. Day was elected a member. 



The following was ordered to be printed : 




322 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY Of [1886. 



HISTORY AND BIOLOGY OF PEAR BLIGHT. 

 BY J. C. ARTHUR. 



To the American orchardist or nurserj'man the name of pear 

 blight, or fire blight, as it is often called, brings to mind a serious 

 malady of fruit trees, which has been the theme of incessant dis- 

 cussion by horticultural writers and speakers since the earliest 

 days of fruit culture in this country. The most marked featui'es 

 of the disease were admirably characterized bj^ William Coxe^ at 

 the beginning of the present century, in the following words : 

 " That species of blight which is sometimes called the fire blight, 

 frequently destroys trees in the fullest apparent vigor and health, 

 in a few hours, turning the leaves suddenly brown, as if they had 

 passed through a hot flame, and causing a morbid matter to exude 

 from the pores of the bark, of a black ferruginous appearance ; 

 this happens through the whole course of the warm season, more 

 frequently in weather both hot and moist." The disease occurs 

 from Canada and Minnesota on the north, to Georgia and Louis- 

 iana on the south, and from the eastern limit of the Rockj- 

 Mountains to the Atlantic ocean. No part of this vast extent of 

 country is exempt, although it does not appear with the same 

 frequency and power in all localities, and is usually rai^e in the 

 immediate vicinity of the sea-coast. 



So far as at present known, it is exclusively confined to this 

 part of North America. This is partly inferred from the absence 

 of any distinct mention of such a disease in the horticultural 

 literature of other regions, and partl^^ from direct testimony. 

 Prof. Dwindle, late of the University of California, has told the 

 writer that it does not occur on the Pacific coast. Dr. De Bary,^ 

 whose word carries great weight, says, after giving a brief 

 description of the disease, "this phenomenon is not to my knowl- 

 edge known in Europe." A long account of the disease has been 

 published by Dr. Wakker,^ in a gardening journal of Holland, in 

 order to learn if it occurs in that country, but up to the present 



1 Cultivation of Fruit Trees, Philadelphia, 1817, p. 174. 



^ Vorlesungen liber Bacterien, 1885, p. 137. 



3 Nederlandsche Tuinbouwblad, II (Jan. 9, 1886), p. 9. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 323 



time no one has intimated any knowledge of it. In a recent 

 letter Dr. Masters, editor of the Gardeners' Chronicle of England, 

 says that no such disease has been recognized in the British Isles. 

 The testimony of one of our own horticulturists. Prof. Budd,' of 

 Iowa, who is familiar with the disease in this countrj'', and has 

 inspected the orchards of the old world far into Russia, is especi- 

 ally valuable ; he says " no trace of blight of pear- or apple-trees 

 can be seen in Europe." From these statements, and the infer- 

 ences to be drawn from other sources, it appears highly probable 

 that the disease does not extend to Europe. An account of the 

 principal diseases of fruit-trees of New Zealand, by Prof. T. Kirk,^ 

 has been published, which describes a disease of the pear known 

 in that country aspire blight, due to a fungus, and another of the 

 apple, the American blight, due to an insect. No true pear blight, 

 as recognized in the United States, is mentioned, and in a recent 

 communication the author has definitely stated that it is not 

 known in the colony. Whether it occurs in other parts of the 

 world is not yet ascertained, if some slight testimony regarding 

 its absence in Japan be excepted. 



It is only within a year or so that Eui'opean writers have become 

 aware of its existence, and this only through American authors. 

 It is remarkable that a disease of such virulence and so easily 

 transported should not have found its wa}' across the ocean, when 

 one remembers the number of destructive plant maladies that 

 America has ah'eady involuntarily foisted upon European culti- 

 vators. It will not be profitable to speculate much at this time 

 upon the reasons for this, but we may suppose that the small 

 exportation of American fruit-trees, or of scions,^ has been a 

 factor in keeping it in check. The influence of climate, and some 

 less evident factors, need not be discussed in this connection. 



Amount of Loss. It has already been intimated that pear 

 blight is a frequent and destructive affection ; it will tend to give 

 a fairer appreciation of the subject if it be stated how frequent 

 and how destructive it is. Coxe,* as early as 181T, in the oldest 

 pomological work by an American author, says it " frequently 



^ Trans. Minn. Hort. Soc. for 1883, p. 281. 



* Fruit Blights and Diseases of Fruit-trees in New Zealand, 1885. 



' For an account of the destruction of stored scions by blight, see Rep. 

 Hort. Soc. of Mich, for 1881, p. 137. * L. c, p. 174. 




324 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



destroys trees in the fullest apparent vigor and health, in a few 

 hours ; I have in twenty years lost upwards of fifty trees." The 

 years 1826 and 1832 were notable in horticultural circles for the 

 increased prevalence of the disease; but it was in 1844 that the 

 most widespread and fatal epidemic, that the country has yet 

 known, occurred. Few, if any, pear-orchards escaped at that 

 time without the pai'tial or total loss of many trees, and some 

 orchards, even large ones, were quite destroj-ed. The following 

 year the epidemic was much lighter, and had fully disappeared 

 by 1846. Although it had subsided as an epidemic, it still 

 occurred in localities here and there, and has continued to do so 

 until the present time. Judging from the communications in the 

 horticultural press, the whole country, or various sections of it 

 independently, have been subject at various times to epidemic 

 visitations, but none have equaled in severity that of the memor- 

 able year of 1844. 



It is often maintained that a certain periodicitj' of occurrence 

 is observable, the periods usually being placed at five, ten, or 

 twenty years. A careful examination of the literature of the 

 subject, however, gives little support to these views, and makes 

 it more probable that the intervals are irregular, and that they 

 vary for different sections of the country. The year of maximum 

 prevalence may or may not be preceded by one in which the 

 disease is noticeably common, but it is quite invariably followed 

 by a year or two of successive decadence. 



In the absence of exact statistics, which it has not been prac- 

 ticable to obtain, something of the important nature of the disease 

 may be gathered from the statements of horticultural writers and 

 the phraseology which they employ in speaking of it. 



The renowned horticulturist, A. J. Downing,' called it the 

 "monstrous malady of the pear." Chas. R. Baker ^ saj^s it is 

 " the worst malady with which the cultivator of the pear-tree has 

 to contend." In southern Pennsylvania "the'pear is so generally 

 destroyed by the blight," according to J. B. Garber^ writing in 

 1850, "that very few trees are to be found." At Philadelphia, 

 however, the disease has been rarely observed, according to 



1 Horticulturist, vol. i, 1846, p. 62. 



' Practical and scientific Fruit Culture. Boston, 1866, p. 476. 



U. S. Patent Office Report for 1850, pt. ii, p. 418. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 325 



Thomas Meelian.^ T. T. Lyons,^ of Michigan, states as the 

 opinion of many cultivators in that State, that the pear-tree can- 

 not be grown with financial success on account of the blight. 

 Illinois has always been much subject to the disease, and Prof J. 

 B. Turner,^ in 1868, gave expression to the genei'al feeling of his 

 region by describing it as " that deadly Upas of the pear-tree 

 known par excellence as the pear-blight." In 1882 Dr. J. L. 

 Hallum,^ speaking for southern Illinois, says, " pears have failed, 

 utterly failed, so that none are now cultivated for market, the 

 blight has destroyed the trees branch and root," and S. G. 

 Minkler,^ in the northern part of the State, observes that it is a 

 very uncommon thing to see pear-trees without dead branches or 

 other signs of the ravages of blight. Wm. A. Nourse,^ of the 

 same State, is led to " doubt if one-tenth of the pear-trees tliat 

 are set, live ten years," on account of this one destructive agent. 

 Geo. M. Dewey ,^ of Missouri, says that " with good cultivation 

 and rich soil the pear generally dies of blight before the eighth 

 year." In Minnesota the severe climate has not permitted the 

 cultivation of pears, and almost the only apples grown for many 

 years were the hardy crab-apples. The latter have been rapidly 

 improved, and together with the hardier varieties of the common 

 apple would now furnish this part of the country with an abundant 

 supply of fruit, were it not for this same disease, which elsewhere 

 most conspicuously preys upon the pear-tree. E. H. S. Dartt ^ 

 held the opinion in 1874 that the severity of winter was not so 

 much to be dreaded as the ravages of blight. He had at that 

 time one or two thousand trees affected. Dr. P. A. Jewell,^ up to 

 1876, had lost ten thousand Tetofsky apple-trees by it. P. G. 

 Gould '" says that " only for this scourge every family living on a 

 farm in Minnesota could have a supply of apples." 



1 Rep. Penn. Fruit-Grower's Soc. for 1877, p. 77. 



2 Rep. Pomol. Soc. of Mich., for 1878, p. 368. 

 ' Trans. 111. Horfc. Society for 1868, p. 43. 



* Same for 1882, p. 118. 



* Same for 1880, p. 30. 



Trans. 111. Hort. Soc. for 1880, p. 63. 

 ' Proc. Mo. Hort. Soc. for 1870, p. 18. 

 8 Trans. Minn. Hort. Soc. for 1874, p. 32. 

 'Samefor 1876, p. 73. 

 '" Same for 1884, p. 127. 




326 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



Citations enough have doubtless been given, although several 

 pages of equally strong ones might be added, to show that fruit- 

 growers, who have the best opportunities for observation, con- 

 sider it a disease greatly to be dreaded and one of special economic 

 importance. Other sections of the country, notably those of 

 Ohio, western New York and Georgia, could furnish equally im- 

 portant proof of these propositions. All that is desired in this 

 connection, however, is to give those not familiar with the subject 

 some idea of the disease and its effects as ordinarily observed 



Early Records. The oldest mention of the disease, that gives 

 a good and reasonably full description of it, is in Coxe's work on 

 fruit-trees, bearing the date of 1817. The manner of the author 

 leaves no doubt that it was well known at that time, and the 

 reference to his losses during twenty years makes it reasonably 

 certain that he had observed the disease as early as the opening 

 of the century. The earliest notice, however, which has yet come 

 to hand, is in a letter written by Wm. Denning,^ describing the 

 disease in apples, pears, and quinces. He speaks of first observ- 

 ing it on the Highlands of the Hudson in 1780. 



There is no interest, however, in tracing chronologically the 

 various notices found in different publications, for without excep- 

 tion they have the tone of treating a familiar theme, and show no 

 evidence that the disease in the first part of the century was in 

 any respect different from to-day. 



Conjectures Regarding its Cause. A brief treatment of this 

 topic will be all that is required for the purposes of this paper ; 

 and only those hypotheses will be touched upon which received 

 such careful presentation as to attract the favorable attention of 

 the public. 



Few writers appear to ascribe the disease to a single agency, 

 but regard it as resulting from several causes, either acting to- 

 gether or brought about by dissimilar circumstances. Little dis- 

 crimination is made between predisi)Osing conditions and active 

 aoents. In fact sharply defined treatment could not be expected 

 when all was conjecture, and when the shrewdest observers did 

 not hesitate to avow that after years of loss under all kinds of 

 experimentation, and after interminable discussions, the cause 

 still lay shrouded in impenetrable obscurit3^ 



1 Trans. Soc. for Prom, of Agric, vol. 15, 1794, p. 219. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 321 



Coxe,^ who has had many followers, thought that the hot rays 

 of the sun when acting through a misty or saturated atmosphere 

 deranged the vital activities of the plant and brought about the 

 disease. He considered old varieties more subject to it, on 

 account of having lower constitutional vigor, than new varieties, 

 of which the St. Germain and Seckel were respectively conspicu- 

 ous instances. 



The insect theory, as it was called, was promulgated at this 

 time. It was started upon firm facts by the discovery of a small 

 brown beetle, about two millimeters long, which penetrated the 

 branch, and caused the part beyond to die. The beetle received 

 the name of Scolylus pyri Peck, now changed to Xyleborus pyri 

 Pk., and is still known as the blight beetle. The effect of its 

 attack appears to the casual observer similar to that of the true 

 blight the branch in June or July rapidly withers, and the leaves 

 and fruit turn black. The beetles being minute and inconspicuous 

 escape attention, and the ftict that the branch does not die below 

 a definite point is sometimes overlooked. It is not difficult to 

 see how many persons came to connect this comparatively rare 

 affection with the common fire blight, and to believe that insects 

 of some sort were to be held accountable for all their supposed 

 minuteness and wary habits being sufficient reasons for the failure 

 to find them, and the spread of the disease along the limbs of a 

 tree being ascribed to a poison which the insects were supposed 

 to emit. Among the prominent supporters of this view was the 

 " Genesee Farmer," ^ published at Rochester, N. Y., with Patrick 

 Barry as the horticultural editor. It has not, however, been so 

 strongly advocated for the last decade or two. 



The next hypothesis that attracted general attention was known 

 as the frozen-sap theory. This was based upon the supposition 

 that the autumn or winter freezing of unripe wood produced a 

 poison which the moving currents of sap the next spring and 

 summer distributed, causing the death of the parts. It was first 

 published in 1844 b^^ Rev. H. W. Beecher,^ of Indiana, in a long 

 and able article in " Hovey's Magazine." In the following j^ear 



1 L. c, p. 175. 



^ See Genesee Farmer, vol. vii, 1846, p. 216; vol. viii, 1847, pp. 122, 

 218, etc. 



^ Magazine of Horticulture, vol. x, p, 441. 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



it was independently elaborated by A. J. Downing' in Ms work 

 on Fruits and Fruit-trees of America, who first called it the 

 frozen-sap theory, and who is usually spoken of as the author of 

 it. This view has probably had more firm adherents than any 

 other, as it explained many phenomena connected with the dis- 

 ease in a fairly satisfactory manner. It was especially well 

 received in the western States. 



The next hypothesis which gained the attention of the public 

 was the fungus theory. Its first successful presentation was in 

 1863 by Dr. J. H. Salisbury ,2 who figured the fungus which he 

 decided to be the specific cause of this kind of blight, and ven- 

 tured to give it a name, although he was sadly in error in most that 

 he did. Thomas Meehan,^ editor of the " Gardener's Monthly," 

 has ably championed this explanation, and done much to keep it 

 in favor. In 1875, Dr. J. G. Hunt,* by Mr. Meehan's request, 

 undertook a microscopical examination of blighted pear-twigs, 

 and confirmed the opinion that it was due to a fungus, without, 

 however, deciding upon the specific character of it. 



Blighted trees often attract attention immediately after a 

 thunder storm, and from this and other circumstances the belief 

 that the malady is due to electricity has gained many adherents, 

 but the argument has not had a full and connected presentation. 



The last hypothesis of historical importance is the bacterial 

 theory. Although hinted at by a number of horticultural writers, 

 yet the credit of it is due to Prof. T. J. Burrill,^ who in 1878 dis- 

 tinctly stated his belief that the cause resides with the bacteria 

 which he found in great abundance in the tissues of afiected 

 branches. In 1880 he performed a series of experiments^ by 

 inoculating healthy branches with the juices of diseased ones, the 

 results of which were presented to the American Association at 

 its Boston meeting, thus first bringing the subject clearly to the 



Fruits and Fruit-trees of America, p. 594 ; same, 2d Revision by Chas. 

 Downing, p. 646. 



=* Ohio Agric. Rep. for 1863, p. 450. 



^Proc. Amer. Pomol. Soc. for 1867, p. 59 ; and elsewhere. 



* Gardener's Monthly, vol. xvii, 1875, p. 245. 



^ Trans. 111. Hort. Soc. for 1878, p. 80. 



" Proc. Amer. Assoc. Adv. Sci., vol. xxix, 1880, p. 583 ; Rep. of 111. 

 Industrial Univ., for 1880, p. 62 ; Trans. 111. Hort. Soc. for 1880, p. 157 ; 

 Amer. Naturalist, vol. xv, 1881, p. 527. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 329 



attention of the scientific world. Although this was now the 

 popular hypothesis, it cannot be said to have received more sub- 

 stantial credence than those which had gone before, either from 

 the horticulturists or the scientists. The experimental results 

 gained b}^ Prof. Burrill were confirmed and extended by the 

 writer ^ during 1884, by means of a similar series of inoculations. 



Of the multitude of minor hypotheses which were put forth in 

 explanation of phenomena connected with pear-blight, and which 

 were variously received, and of all degrees of plausibilit}^, it is 

 Impossible to speak at this time without carrying this paper to 

 undue length. 



Beginning of Experimental Research. The question of the 

 cause of pear-blight was finally removed from the domain of 

 speculation to that of established fact by a series of crucial 

 experiments performed by the writer ^ a year ago, and recorded 

 in a paper before the American Association at the Ann Arbor 

 meeting. These consisted in showing that the bacteria when 

 removed from the tree and passed through a series of artificial 

 cultures would generate the disease when again introduced into 

 the tree, and that the juices accompanying blight when cleared 

 of bacteria by filtration will not produce the disease. 



Having now come to a firm basis for scientific advancement, let 

 us look over the historical ground again to see if some one did 

 not hit upon the true explanation of the disease, although he may 

 not have been aware of its sisfnificance. In a connection like 

 this, facts derived from experiment have greater weight than 

 statements of opinion ; the latter acquire importance in propor- 

 tion as the}'^ are logically derived from correct and close observa- 

 tion. Bearing this in mind, we need not give much heed to the 

 not uncommon inference that pear-blight was in some way inti- 

 mately related to the epidemic diseases of man, e. g. cholera. 

 This view is said to have been quite frequently entertained in the 

 early part of the century, but was not sanctioned by the learned. 

 The. use of such phrases as " first cousin to the cholera," " a spe- 

 cies of vegetable ferment," etc., surely does not entitle the author 

 to any priority in way of discovery. 



1 Rep. N. Y. Agric. Exper. Station for 1884, p. 357. 



^ Proc. Am. Assoc. Adv. Sci., vol. xxxiv, 1885, p. 295 ; Bot. Gazette, vol. 

 X, 1885, p. 343 ; Gardeners' Chronicle, vol. xxiv. 1885, p. 586. 



22 




330 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



We turn from these slight hints to the record of an experiment 

 in inoculation, made in 1845 and published the following year. 

 We are told by S. B. Gookins/ of Indiana, that visiting Mr. 

 Ragan (the same person who furnished Mr. Beecher with many 

 of the facts on which he founded the theory to which we have 

 already referred) he was shown a thrift}' young pear-tree in the 

 nurser}', which had been " inoculated " " by way of experiment " 

 with " the sap of a blighted tree," " a few days previous." " He 

 made an incision about three feet from the ground, lifted the 

 bark as in the process of budding, and injected a small quantity 

 of the diseased sap." " We found the leaves of the patient chang- 

 ing color, and emitting that peculiar odor which is always present 

 in cases of blight, and upon appl3'ing the knife, the inner bark 

 was found to be black from the root to the top, while nothing of 

 the kind appeared elsewhere in the nursery." 



This admirable experiment was combined with a no less admir- 

 able interpretation of the cause of blight. The writer cites facts 

 to disprove the hypothesis of Mr. Beecher, and then says : " I 

 strongly incline to the belief, that the pear-blight is an epidemic, 

 that it prevails like other epidemics, and will pass off like them. 

 The atmosphere is, I believe, generally admitted to be the medium 

 by which they prevail, and are carried from place to place. What 

 that subtle principle may be, which pervades our atmosphere, by 

 which infection is retained and transmitted, human science has 

 not discovered ; but that such a principle exists is sufficiently 

 obvious from its effects." 



This clearly conceived elucidation of the matter could onlj' 

 have been improved by a knowledge of the germ theory of disease, 

 and when we remember the date at which it was uttered, we do 

 not feel that the writer was guilty of any lack of acuteness in not 

 perceiving the relation which we now know to exist between his 

 theory and his facts. He seems to have been a modest man, for 

 he only signs his initials, and does not defend his views when the 

 editor, A. J. Downing,^ opposes the opinion that " an epidemic 

 conveyed by the atmosphere is too slightly supported by facts to 

 weigh at all against the observations of cultivators," which 

 " strongly point to the freezing of the sap as the cause." 



' Horticulturist, vol. i, 1846, p. 253. 

 ' Horticulturist, vol. i, 1846, p. 255. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP JPHILADELPHIA. 33l 



Another interesting experiment was performed by Dr. E. S. 

 Hull,^ of Illinois, in 1868. Having received some blighted apple 

 twigs from a correspondent, he cut pieces from them with which 

 he " inoculated several succulent pear shoots by tying in the pieces 

 as in budding." This was done the middle of June, and no ob- 

 servation taken for thirty-four days, when the blight was found 

 to have extended several inches into the healthy tissues. From 

 this he very justly concludes that the blight in apples and pears 

 is but one disease, but seems to take it for granted that in both 

 it is due to " vitiated sap." 



The fact that the disease may be transferred to healthy trees 

 by the pruning knife has been observed by several persons. H. 

 Wendell,^ of New York, says in 1849, "I am also careful that the 

 blade of the knife is perfectly clean, and that it has none of the 

 sap of a diseased tree adhering to it, because I have known many 

 valuable trees destroyed by having been inoculated in this man- 

 ner." Prof. Turner,^ of Illinois, makes a similar statement : " I 

 found that this disease is exceedingly contagious, for if I used 

 my knife to prune a healthy tree after having used it in shaving 

 the diseased one, I communicated the disease to that tree." 



Prof. Burrill first observed the bacteria of blight in 1877,^ 

 but did not recognize them as such till the following year,^ when 

 he avowed his belief that they were the cause of the disease. 

 His first inoculation experiments were made in 1880, as already 

 stated. In 1882 he characterized the organism under the name 

 of 3Iicrococcus amylovorus.^ 



Description of Micrococcus amylovorus Bur. The form of 

 this species of bacteria is very constant, under all conditions. 

 The single cells are from oval to roundish-ovoid, and only vary 

 by slight changes in the ratio between their length and breadth 



1 Trans. 111. Hort. Soc. for 1868, p. 320. 



2 U. S. Patent Office Rep. for 1849, pt. 11, p. 446. 



3 Trans. 111. Hort. Soc. for 1878, p. 81. 

 * Same for 1877, page 114. 



^ Same for 1878, page 79. 



^ The Bacteria (a reprint from Rep. of 111. Industrial Univ. for 1882), 

 p. 42 ; Amer. Naturalist, vol. vii, 1883, p. 319. In the last publication, 

 by a typographical error, tiie name was made to read M. amylivorus, a 

 mistake wliich has been copied into other works see Grove's Bacteria 

 and Yeast Fungi, London, 1884, p. 10. 




332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY Olr [1886. 



(PI. Ill, figs. 1, 2, 6). They are 1 to 1;^ ,a long, by i to | ,a broad, 

 and quite colorless. For the most part, they exist as single inde- 

 pendent cells, but may often be found in pairs, especially when 

 still multiplying, and in rare instances are united into a series of 

 four or even more, but never extend into chains. 



During rapid vegetation, in rich nutritive media, the move- 

 ments reach a stage of extreme activity. The appearance is 

 what is termed swarming, in which the bacteria move rapidly 

 back and forth, in and out among each other, but never in a 

 straight line to any distance. As the rate of growth becomes 

 less from any cause the movements are retarded. Taken directly 

 from the tissues of a blighting tree, the movements of transla- 

 tion are usually sluggish or imperceptible, although the universal 

 Brownian movement is likelj' to give a misleading appearance of 

 activity. Under speciall}'^ favorable conditions, as when grown 

 during hot weather in very succulent shoots, or from artificial 

 inoculation in unripe fruit, the movements are much increased 

 and may become quite rapid. When taken from the tree in 

 winter, or when grown in solutions that are too acid or too alka- 

 line, or which are deficient in the proper nutritive substances, 

 there is no perceptible locomotion. 



When in active growth, the cells present a uniformly dull 

 appearance. By conditions which are unfavorable to normal 

 growth, yet do not entirely check it, such as strongly acid or 

 alkaline solutions, deficient nutriment, or exhaustion b}'^ keeping 

 the cultures several months, the cells become highl}^ refractive, 

 and to some extent take on the appearance of the spores of 

 other species of bacteria. Whether in this state the}^ possess 

 any of the characteristic powers of resistance which belo^ig to 

 spores, has not been ascertained. 



Formation of Zoogloea. By far the most characteristic feature 

 in the life history of Micrococcus amylovorus is the formation of 

 zoogloea (figs. 2, 3, 5). These have never been observed in the 

 tissues of the tree under an 3- conditions, or in or upon any sort 

 of solid media, but they occur with much regularity in fluid 

 cultures, when placed under favorable conditions for rapid 

 growth. 



Thej'^ are produced to some extent throughout the fluid, but 

 are most abundant in the thin pellicle which forms upon the 

 surface, appearing within forty-eight hours from the beginning 




1886.] NATDRAL SCIENCES OE PHILADELPHIA. 333 



of the culture. The substance of the pellicle consists of a color- 

 less matrix uniformly filled with motionless bacteria, and against 

 this the zoogloea are sharply defined. They are often brought out 

 yet more distinctly by being surrounded by a colorless layer, free 

 of bacteria, which is doubtless an extension of the ground sub- 

 stance of the zoogloea mass (fig. 4). 



The masses are far more dense than the pellicle, and are com- 

 pactly filled with refractive bacteria. They possess a definite 

 outline, and are recognizable when verj'^ small ; and although 

 they may reach 80 to 40 // long by 20 to 80 p. wide, they rarely 

 lose their distinctness. When below 10 , in length, their usual 

 form is oblong, varying to globular. They occur singly, or united 

 more or less intimately end to end in pairs, and sometimes several 

 form a short chain. At this stage they possess a uniformly even 

 and unbroken surface, which now becomes uneven and wrinkled, 

 and is finall}^ thrown into folds, giving some resemblance to the 

 external aspect of the brain. Zoogloea more than 20 ij. in length 

 have the folds of somewhat unequal height, and the sinuses deeper, 

 giving a stronger cerebric look, or when the folds are small and 

 circular, they are better described as mulberry-like. The elon- 

 gated forms, which at some stage of growth might doubtless have 

 been composed of two or more distinct masses, often take on a 

 vermiform appearance. But whatever the variations may be, the 

 distinctness of outline, the general form, and the cerebric surface 

 are unfailing characters, which so far as my knowledge extends, 

 are not found in any other species of bacteria. 



Cultivation in Fluid Media. The range of substances which 

 may serve as culture media for this organism is very wide. An 

 infusion of almost any vegetable substance containing a fair 

 amount of soluble carbohj'drates is likely to be sufficient to enable 

 growth to take place, even if not ver}'^ luxuriantly. 



The substance which on the whole has proved most satisfactor}'' 

 is an infusion of potato. This is prepared by paring a potato and 

 slicing it into three or four times its bulk of water. This is kept for a 

 couple of hours at about 70 C, by placing it over a water-bath, 

 during which time it is occasionally stirred. It is then filtered, 

 and is ready to be placed in the culture vessels for sterilizing and 

 use. If the heat is allowed to rise much above 70, the starch is 

 gelatinized, and it is only with diflficulty that the solution can be 

 filtered. The resulting liquid is clear and watery, but is often 




1334 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



liffht brown from coloring matter contained in the potato, which 

 does not, however, materially interfere with observations on the 

 growth of bacteria in it. Iodine gives a blue coloration to this 

 liquid, showing that it contains starch, probably in the form of 

 amylon. Another equally good culture fluid is made by treating 

 corn (maize) meal in a similar manner. The solution is colorless, 

 but it is very apt to throw down a troublesome sediment, which 

 makes it less desirable to use than the potato solution. 



Test-tube or flask cultures with these liquids, when kept at a 

 temperature of 25 to 30C., usually show some turbidity in 

 twenty-four hours after being infected, and if the growth is very 

 rapid, bubbles of gas (CO2) will be given oflf, which collect at the 

 surface into a slight froth. In forty-eight hours the liquid has 

 become thoroughly turbid. By this time a thin whitish pellicle 

 has formed on the surface, which does not increase much in thick- 

 ness up to the end of active growth, and rarely becomes wrinkled. 

 With the formation of the pellicle, a sediment gathers at the bot- 

 tom of the liquid, often a centimeter in depth, but which is so 

 light that it only apparently diflfers from the liquid above by being 

 whiter. In the course of some weeks this sediment will mostly 

 gather upon the bottom of the vessel. No difierence has been 

 observed in the appearance of the bacteria taken from diflferent 

 parts of the culture. Those imbedded in the pellicle are not 

 ari'anged in any recognizable order. 



In proportion as liquids are less suitable to the growth of 

 the organism, the visible changes are less. The pellicle may not 

 be formed, and there may be no turbidity, but if any growth at 

 all takes place there will be some evidence of it by formation of 

 a slight sediment. But the occurrence of a precipitate does not 

 necessarily imply growth, for it not infrequently separates from 

 a liquid containing organic matter, although remaining perfectly 

 sterile. 



An infusion of hay, and also of dead, partly decomposed 

 grass from a marsh, gave nearly a normal growth of blight 

 bacteria, but the cells were considerably more refractive than 

 usual. 



A solution of starch, having one part of starch to fifty of 

 water, gave but a slight growth of highly refractive bacteria, 

 without a pellicle, turbidity, or zooglosa. A strong decoction of 

 old barnyard manure acted in the same manner. A solution of 




18S6.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



one part of glucose to fifty of water gave no growth of the 

 bacteria. 



In testing the effect of acids upon the development of blight 

 bacteria, a ^ per cent, of malic acid was added to the usual infu- 

 sion of potato. This prevented the formation of a i>ellicle, tur- 

 bidit}^ or zoogla3a, but gave a very considerable cloudj^ sediment,, 

 largely made up of loosely aggregated groups of blight bacteria, 

 which were brilliantly^ refractive. A similar solution with 2 per 

 cent, of malic acid gave a slightly less abundant sediment, but with 

 otherwise the same results. Some of the latter was transferred 

 to a corn-meal solution, producing the characteristics of a pear- 

 blight culture, except the formation of zooglcea. After some 

 days this was introduced into a pear tree, which in due course of 

 time gave the true blight, showing that the bacteria of the acid 

 solution were really blight bacteria. Attempts to grow them in 

 a nutrient 5 per cent, solution of citric and tartaric acids have 

 not been successful. 



Testing the nature of the bacteria in cultures producing 

 limited growth, by inoculating directly into the tree, has not, as a 

 rule, proved successful, as for some reason they seem unable to 

 gain a footing in the living tissues. It is therefore necessary to 

 transfer them first to richly nutrient cultures, from which, after 

 a time, they may be introduced into the tree, and, if the blight 

 bacteria are present, will start the disease. 



Cultivation in Solid Media. In test-tube cultures with nutrient 

 gelatine the most characteristic results have been obtained by 

 adding a drop containing blight bacteria to the gelatine while 

 liquid, and thoroughly distributing the germs by shaking the 

 tube. In from two to three days the gelatine contains numerous 

 small white dots, which, upon examination under the microscope, 

 prove to be a mass of bacteria of the usual appearance. The 

 dots are globular or oval, and increase to about .5 mm. in 

 diameter. No further growth or change takes place, and in this 

 condition they remain for weeks, without liquefying or otherwise 

 atlecting the gelatine. 



When sown upon the surface of the gelatine by drawing a 

 needle or glass rod over it, or by placing a drop on it, the growth 

 is feeble and does not amount to more than a slight shining 

 appearance of the surface. 



A nutrient solution made from an unripe pear, in which blight 




336 PROCEEDINaS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



germs wei'e well distributed by shaking and then left undis- 

 turbed for two days, gave the same isolated white dots as in 

 gelatine; but they dropped to the bottom of the liquid upon 

 being jarred. The bacteria were evidently prevented from 

 moving freely by the jelly, which was not, however, thick 

 enough to keep the groups in place when its cohesion was 

 once disturbed. Fruit jellies, doubtless, may be found to be 

 convenient media for the cultivation of this species of bac- 

 teria. 



No success has been attained in the use of agar agar, but 

 whether due to a want of adaptability in the substance, or to 

 wrong manipulation, must be left to future experiments to 

 determine. 



The opaque solid cultures proving most successful have been 

 conducted upon freshly gathered unripe pears. Slices of these 

 are placed under a moist bell-jar, and infected by touching with 

 a needle that has been dipped in some substance containing the 

 bacteria. In two or three days fine milk}^ drops, like beads of 

 dew, will appear scattered over the surface for 5 mm. or more 

 about the infected spot. These will become somewhat lai-ger 

 after a time, while the spot which received the infection will turn 

 slightly brown, the tissues gradually wasting away and forming 

 a small depression. 



If, however, the slices, having freshly cut surfaces both above 

 and below, are laid upon a plate with a little water, and placed 

 under a bell-jar, the result is not the same. The dew-like drops 

 appear within forty-eight hours, as in the other case, but increase 

 rapidly in size, while a drop is also formed at the point of infec- 

 tion. Drops finally appear over the whole surface of the slice. 

 They remain more or less distinct, and soon become as large as 

 a pea, retaining the globular or rounded form to a remarkable 

 degree. Microscopically the}'^ ai-e composed of the usual form 

 of blight bacteria, suspended in a colorless fluid. After about a 

 week, the drops coalesce and the tissues of the pear begin to 

 break down. This sort of culture requires no precautions of 

 sterilizing, as no other bacteria can multiply upon it till after the 

 cells of the pear begin to die. 



When blight bacteria are sown upon slices of baked or boiled 

 potato, they spread out over the surface in a thin, slightly moist 

 layerj which is usually somewhat yellowish, but do not grow 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA,, 1886. 



PLATE 





'^^ 







{ 







n 



U !'0 



^ 3 



i.';_) 



4 



o ^ 



O Co ^ 



8 Or, 

 oo 



<i 



>.J .--v 





t 





-x*. 



(i 



y 



^>' 





z 



o O 



a 



J. C. ARTHUR Del 



MICROCOCCUS AMYLOVORUS bur. 





1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 337 



readily, or produce a characteristic appearance. Under the 

 microscope the cells are strongly refractive. 



A boiled potato was infected by thrusting a platinum wire, 

 smeared with blight bacteria, into one end. After sixteen days 

 it was cut open. No external change had taken place, and, to 

 the unaided eye, no internal change either ; the odor and texture 

 were still those of a freshly boiled potato. The microscope, how- 

 ever, revealed the blight bacteria in every part of the potato, in 

 irregular motionless masses, and with more than the usual 

 refractiveness. 



These opaque solid cultures have brought out one fact verj'- 

 distinctly, which is, that Micrococcus amylovorus requires a 

 large supply of water for its best development a fact which has 

 an economic bearing. 



Behavior toward Staining Fluids. So far as trial has been 

 made, nothing especially characteristic has been detected to dis- 

 tinguish this form of bacteria from the majority of micrococci. 

 The most successful results have been obtained with a watery 

 solution of Bismarck-brown, especially in cover-glass prepara- 

 tions. These make excellent specimens when mounted in 

 Canada balsam. 



The zoogloea are inclined to be too deeply stained by this pro- 

 cess, and for most purposes they are best studied unstained. 

 They may be well preserved by mounting in glycerine. 



Hematoxylin has also given good results, but has not been 

 found particularly useful. 



Chemical Products. The chemical changes brought about by 

 the activity of the blight bacteria have not yet been fully and 

 carefully worked out. The most obvious product is carbon 

 dioxide, which often passes off so freely from a cultivation as to 

 produce a slow effervescence. Butyric acid and alcohol are 

 formed in very small quantities, if at all. The tests by which 

 these facts have been determined have already been published,^ 

 and need not be repeated here. Vigorous cultures of the bacteria 

 in infusion of potato give no reaction for glucose with Fehling's 

 solution ; and blighting tissues from the tree give no indication 

 by the same test of more than the normal amount of glucose to 

 be found in healthy tissues. On the other hand a quantitative 



^ Rep. N. Y. Agric. Exper. Station for 1885, p. 247 ; and less fully in 

 Amer. Nat., vol. xix, 1885, p. 1181. 



23 





c 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



determination of sound and blighting pears, taken from the tree 

 at the same time, shows considerably less sugar in the latter. 



A favorite explanation with horticulturists of the action of fire- 

 blight upon the pear-tree, has been to say that the sap is poisoned. 

 This poison was supposed to be introduced by insects, or to be 

 due to some disorganization of the tissues. Although it is now 

 known that specific bacteria are directlj'^ answerable for the dis- 

 ease, it is yet worth while to see if the old idea of a poison has 

 not some foundation in fact. 



It has been ascertained that certain bacteria produce, during 

 their growth, characteristic poisons which are classed under the 

 name of ptomaines. Most of the ptomaines are non-volatile, and 

 readily soluble in water or alcohol. The chemical tests which 

 are applied for their detection cannot be considered conclusive 

 except when taken collectively. The tests tried below are among 

 the most satisfactory known at present.^ 



A cultivation in infusion of potato, giving about 200 cc. of liquid 

 was filtered, and the filtrate evaporated to a syrup. This was 

 treated with alcohol, and the solution tested with the most char- 

 acteristic test for ptomaines the reduction of potassic ferric- 

 cyanide. Other portions of the solution were successively tested 

 with phospho-molybdic acid, potassio-mercuric iodide, and iodine 

 in potassic iodide, all of which failed to give any distinctive 

 reactions. 



Another trial was made with about 200 cc. of material prepared 

 by cooking a potato in just enough water to cover it, sterilizing, 

 and cultivating the bacteria in it as usual. In four days from 

 beginning of the culture it was filtered ; the residue upon the 

 filter was treated with 100 cc. of distilled water, slightly acidulated 

 with hydrochloric acid, heated to 70C. and filtered. The two 

 filtrates were united and evaporated to a syrup. This was digested 

 in the cold with alcohol containing a little sodic hydrate. This 

 solution was tested as before, and also with platinic chloride and 

 concentrated sulphuric acid, and all with no distinctive reactions. 



A third trial was made with a boiled potato, which had been 

 permeated with the blight. The extract was made by the Stas- 

 Otto method, and the same reagents used as in the last case, with 

 equally negative results. 



1 Cf. Brieger, Ueber Ptomaine, 1885, p. 33, et seq. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 339 



These tests do not cover the possibility of the ptomaine being 

 volatile, which is really not very great. It is yet necessary to 

 make tests of freshly blighted tissues from the tree, which can 

 only be done during the hot months. 



Action of the Organism in the Living Plant. The bacteria of 

 blight have the power of growth and multiplication in the pres- 

 ence of the living cells of the pear, and in this one important 

 respect differ essentially from other species of bacteria. By arti- 

 ficial inoculation into growing unripe pears, which give most 

 marked and certain results, it is found that other bacteria are 

 entirely innocuous, at once disappearing without having made 

 any growth or induced any changes in the tissue of the pear. If 

 blight bacteria in active condition are intermixed with the other 

 forms, they penetrate the cells, multiply, and finally bring about 

 the disorganization and death of the tissues which marks the pro- 

 gress of the disease, but the associated forms disappear the same 

 as when introduced alone, and the product is a mass of practically 

 pure blight bacteria. 



This result is rendered possible on account of the fact already 

 stated, that the blight bacteria penetrate the tissues, and main- 

 tain their normal growth for some time (days or weeks), before 

 the life of the cells is sufficiently interfered with to permit the 

 growth of other forms. The bacteria always extend beyond the 

 visible location of the disease in small branches, often to the 

 distance of a third of a meter or more. 



One of the properties which enables this species to successfully 

 penetrate the pear-tree is evidently its unusual indifference to 

 acids, which prevents most other forms from making any 

 growth; the juices of the pear give a strong acid reaction with 

 test paper. 



What chemical changes are brought about by its activity in 

 the plant cannot be definitely stated, further than to say that a 

 mucilage or gum, which is soluble in water, is produced in abun- 

 dance, with the disengagement of carbon dioxide. The contents 

 of the cells, together with the cell- walls which have not been 

 liquefied or changed into stony tissue, pass over into this viscous 

 product.^ 



^ Rep. N. T. Agric. Exper. Station for 1885, p. 248 ; Araer. Nat., vol, 

 xix, 1885, p. 1181. 




340 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



It was early observed by cultivators, being recorded by Coxe, 

 that succulent shoots blight the most readily, and any process of 

 cultivation which as far as possible prevents succulency has 

 always been considered an aid in keeping the disease in check. 

 The avidity of the blight bacteria for water has been well demon- 

 strated in the cultures on slices of pears. There seems to be 

 some connection between these facts and the well-known fact 

 that the disease shows different degrees of virulence in different 

 varieties of fruit trees, especially in different varieties of the 

 pear. The variation, or at least part of it, to be observed in 

 pears, apples, quinces, hawthorns, etc., may be due to some inhe- 

 rent difference in the nature of the host, not readily formulated ; 

 for we find that the blight bacteria will grow to only a slight 

 extent in the succulent peach shoots, and not at all in most 

 other plants.^ But in varieties of the same fruit it may reason- 

 ably be inferred that to a considerable extent the difference in 

 the progress of the disease is due to physical causes. 



To determine what relation the hydration of the tissues holds 

 to this question, a series of determinations of the percentage of 

 water in the parts of the tree most subject to blight has been 

 begun. These are yet incomplete, and can only now be referred 

 to briefly. 



The Bartlett and Seckel pears very well represent the extremes, 

 the first being most affected by the disease and the second least. 

 Twigs taken from the tree in February were found to contain 50'2 

 per cent, and 50"85 per cent, of water respectively. Twigs taken 

 in the same way April 30, bearing flower buds, but with the 

 leaves removed, gave 68"7 per cent, and 67*3 per cent, of water. 

 The half-grown fruit, taken the first week in July, gave '79*3 per 

 cent, of water for the Bartlett and 71 per cent, for the Seckel. 

 According to these figures the amount of water in the Bartlett 

 and Seckel twigs during the winter is practically the same, but 

 during growth both the twigs and fruit of the Bartlett contain 

 more water than those of the Seckel. These numbers give some 

 support to the view that succulency and the strength of the dis- 

 ease are directly related, but the data are yet too incomplete to 

 warrant a definite statement. 



1 Rep. N. Y. Agric. Exper. Station for 1884, pp. 362, 377 ; Amer. Nat., 

 vol. xix, 1885, p. 1182. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



EXPLANATION" OF PLATE IIL 



The drawings were made with a camera lucida and a Spencer's y'o-objec- 

 tive, homogeneous immersion, of 125 balsam angle. They are unifoimly 

 magnified 890 diameters. 



Fig. 1. Micrococcus amylovorus Bur., grown upon a slice of boiled 



potato, stained with Bismarck-brown and mounted in Canada balsam. 

 Fig. 2. From a cultivation in hay infusion : a, separate bacteria ; 6, zoo- 



gloea. The large mass, only part of which is shown, is made up of 



smaller masses more or less united. 

 Fig. 3. Small zoogloea from a potato infusion, drawn from a preparation 



in Canada balsam, stained with Bismarck-brown. 

 Fig. 4. Poition of a zooglcea mass from the same culture, showing an 



envelope free from bacteria. Drawn from an unstained preparation 



mounted in glycerine. 

 Fig. 5. Three zoogloea from the same culture. 

 Fig. 6. From another culture in hay infusion. 




342 proceedings of the academy op [1886. 



October 5. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Twenty-four persons present. 



A paper, entitled " Observations on Multiplication in Amoeba;," 

 by Lillie E. Holman, was presented for publication. 



October 12. 



Mr. Chas. Morris in the chair. 



Twenty-two persons present. 



Notes on the Lichens in the Herbarium of the Academy. At a 

 meeting of the Botanical Section, held October 11, Dr. J. W. 

 Eckfeldt, to whom had been committed the task of examining 

 and arranging the Lichens in possession of the Academy, reported 

 the result of his work, which had extended over two years. 

 Besides the collections upon the shelves, made by Schweinitz, and 

 by him bequeathed to the Academy, and that received from the 

 late Prof Tuckerman, he had found stowed away among miscel- 

 laneous packages : 1st, a collection made by Thomas G. Lea, of 

 North American species, many without names, or incorrectly 

 named ; 2d, a small collection made by H. W. Ravenel, chiefly from 

 the vicinity of Aiken, or along the Santee Canal in South Carolina, 

 in all about 60 to 70 species ; 3d, a small collection of Arctic spe- 

 cies made by Dr. Hayes ; 4th, a small collection of European 

 species made by Parmentier at a very earl}^ date; 5th, a set of 

 Scotch Lichens from Mr. Manghen ; and a few scattered species 

 from various American collectors. To each of these collections 

 he had given a careful microscopic examination, and had named 

 and classified them on the basis of Prof. Tuckerman's Genera 

 Lichenum. He had also added to these from his own private 

 herbarium more than 400 species, both North American and 

 foreign. All these collections had been incorporated in one, and 

 occupy one of the cases in the lower room, as a nucleus for the 

 Academy's general collection of Lichens. 



For obvious reasons it had been deemed advisable to maintain 

 apart and undisturbed the t3'pe collections of Schweinitz and 

 Tuckerman, but a general catalogue has been prepared including 

 all, by which proper reference to the contents of each is facilitated. 

 He had, moreover, gone carefullj^ through the Schweinitzian col- 

 lection, and, while leaving the original names unchanged, had 

 indicated upon the outside of each packet such changes as are 

 required by the present state of knowledge. 

 The total number of species of Lichens now in the Academy's 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



Herbarium is 736. In the general collection are 570 species, and 

 in the Schweinitzian are 462. The general collection contains 

 244 species not found in the Schweinitzian, and the latter has 

 282 species not found in the former. In all, 65 genera are well 

 represented. 



In regard to the Schweinitzian collection he remarked that the 

 same species often there appeared under several names, being 

 simply in different stages of development. Genera too were 

 founded upon juvenescent stages or gonidial conditions which, from 

 the time of Acharius to that of Schweinitz and later, were con- 

 sidered sufficient to establish generic distinctions. For example, 

 such genera as Leparia, Isidium and By^tsus, were then deemed 

 valid, but are now considered to be, some of them young and 

 irioid states of plants mostly belonging to the section Lecanora ; 

 others, sterile states of Omphalaria, Ceenogonia, or other Colle- 

 matous Lichens. 



He spoke of several rare and interesting specimens in the col- 

 lection. Of these, in the Schweinitz Herbarium, is a crustaceous 

 Lichen found in 1812 at Salem, N. C, on a granitic rock, and 

 called by the collector Gyalecta Candida^ and by this name known 

 only to a few up to the year 1866. At this period Prof. Tucker- 

 man described the plant in an Appendix to his Lichens of Cali- 

 fornia as Opegrapha ontocheila, thus placing it permanently in a 

 well-established genus of gymnocarpous Lichens. This specimen 

 was the only one known until 1885 when Mr. Green found upon high 

 projecting schist rocks along the Catawba River at Landsford, 

 Chester Co., S. C, a lichen which was supposed to be new, until 

 Prof Tuckerman, just previous to his last illness, identified it 

 with that found by Schweinitz as above. Dr. Eckfeldt also re- 

 ferred to a remarkable foliaceous Lichen found near Cincinnati by 

 Mr. T. G. Lea in 1889, formerly known as Parmelia Ohionis (Lea, 

 Catal. PI. Cincinnati, p. 45), but since described by Tuckerman 

 as Physcia Leana. So far as Dr. Eckfeldt was aware, this rare 

 species had not since been found. He also referred to the diffi- 

 culties encountered in the examination of much of the material, 

 many of the types being old and fragile, having lost the parts 

 most important for study, for want of proper care. Only a prac- 

 ticed eye, aided by constant use of the microscope, and by com- 

 parison with authentic specimens, can surely determine the doubt- 

 ful and difficult forms present in this section of cryptogamic 

 botany. 



October 19. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Twenty-seven persons present. 



A paper entitled " The Genera Mesonyx and Pachygena Cope," 

 by Wm. B. Scott, was presented for publication. 




344 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



On the Interdependence of Plants. Mr. Thomas Meehan called 

 attention to the well-known fact in geographical botanj', that 

 species of plants which once had evidently a wide dispersion now 

 existed only as separate colonies often of a few plants only, the 

 intermediates between these widely separated colonies having 

 evidently disappeared. The cause of these disappearances had 

 not been definitely determined. It was found that the still exist- 

 ing individuals were evidently in good health ; they flowered 

 freel}-, and perfected seeds, but still the plants did not spread. 

 He gave a number of illustrations within his own observation of 

 a few rare plants that had maintained their existence for over a 

 quarter of a century, with about the same number of individuals 

 now as at the beginning of the term. As the seeding was regular 

 and perfect, why was dispersion arrested ? There could be but 

 one answer. Something prevented the germination of the seeds, 

 or of subsequent growth after germination. No doubt there may 

 be other causes, but this one must have a leading influence. 



It then becomes an interesting branch of study to inquire why 

 these seeds do not germinate, and thus aid the plant to recover 

 the ground lost through destructive agencies ? 



An observation extending over about six 3'ears led him to con- 

 clude that there was much in the interdependence of plants. What- 

 ever afi'ected the existence of individuals of one species might 

 lead to the extermination of numerous others, and the successful 

 endeavor of one to establish itself in one locality gave the neces- 

 sary opportunity to follow and sustain themselves. This obser- 

 vation was as follows : A wood, chiefly of chestnut and oak, of 

 about an acre in extent, was turned into a picnic ground a place 

 for summer pleasure parties. All the shrubby undergrowth was 

 cut away. The plants which might have grown up, were kept 

 tolerably well trodden down by the numerous visitors to the 

 wood, except one solitary blackberry plant (Bubus villosus), 

 which, being thorn}', led to its avoidance by human feet. After 

 the second summer, some change in railroad arrangements led to 

 the abandonment of the wood for picnic purposes, and plants had 

 a chance to grow up again without disturbance from human 

 beings. The blackberry plant, by the aid of its creeping roots 

 now forms a thicket of about thirty feet in diameter. The follow- 

 ing list of plants growing among the blackberries, that were not 

 found in any part of the wood, except the last two, which were 

 in small quantities here and there, was made in October of this 

 year : 



Eupatorium perfoliatum^ Bubus occidentalis, Liriodendron 

 tulipiferum, Cornus alternifolia, Smilacina racemosa, Ambrosia 

 artemisisefoUa, Laurus sassafras, Polygonum Persicaria, Achillea 

 millefolium, Solidago canadensis, Mulgedium acuminatum, Bidens 

 frondosa, Silene verticillata, Fragaria virginiana, Aster longi- 

 folia, Eupatorium album, Circsea lutetiana, Geranium maculatum, 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 345 



Acer rubriim, Phytolacca decandra, 3Iuhlenbergia diffusa, Poten- 

 tilla canadensis, the last two to some extent in the wood. 



All the kinds, however, o;rew in the vicinity of the acre of 

 woodland, though not within its limits, and it was eas}' to note 

 that they had grown from seeds falling or brought to the black- 

 berry patch during the last three or four years. Those who are 

 familiar with the seeds of these plants will understand that there 

 is nothing special about the seeds of these species that would 

 easily lead to their being brought there by birds that might 

 rendezvous in the thickets. We must look to the wind as the 

 chief agent in transporting them there. This being the case, we 

 should look for the plants from wind-sown seeds in other por- 

 tions of the wood, as well as in the blackberrj^ patch. That they 

 are not in the wood elsewhere permits us to say that the shade, 

 moisture, preservation of decaying leaves, or of some other inci- 

 dent not acceptable to other plants in the wood, but favorable to 

 these strangers, gave them the chance to sprout and grow. 

 They were, in fact, dependent on the blackberry for their 

 first start in life. This conclusion was further evidenced 

 by the fact that, though some of the annuals had evidently 

 seeded and reproduced plants for several successive seasons, no 

 plants were found spreading out of the protecting area of the 

 blackberry thicket. Certainly these species were all dependent 

 here on this plant, as this plant would probably be dependent on 

 others in some other instances. 



How some plants can exist, grow healthily, produce seed, and 

 not spread, Mr. Meehan illustrated in the case of Shortia galaci- 

 folia, the original locality of Michaux having a few months ago 

 been rediscovered b}'^ Professor C. S. Sargent. Though it had 

 maintained itself for the best part of a century, it had existed 

 without spreading. Some circumstance had evidently prevented 

 the seed from germinating, and these circumstances would 

 undoubtedly be controlled by the presence or absence of some 

 friendly plant. He offered the facts as a contribution to the 

 study of the interdependence of plants. 



October 26. 

 Mr. Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., in the chair. 

 Thirteen persons present. 

 The following was ordered to be printed : 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



OBSERVATION ON MULTIPLICATION IN AMCEB^. 

 BY LIIiLIE E. HOLMAN. 



On the 4th of July, 1886, I was examining the forms of life 

 contained in a Holman life-slide, which had been filled for 

 several hours. It contained different Infusoria, and among 

 other animals, specimens of JEolosoma. But it seemed for some 

 time as if there were no amoebae in the slide, until I discovered 

 a small one near the channel. In shape it seemed like an elon- 

 gated triangle, and was rather torpid, or at least moved but little. 

 While I was examining it, it moved up closer to the line of the 

 channel, and another amo3ba, about twice the size of the first 

 one, came gliding on the scene. It moved up very close to the 

 other, and in a few moments I noticed that it looked as if it were 

 trying to swallow the smaller amoeba, in the same manner that 

 it does its ordinary prey. As I had watched many amoebae and 

 had never seen anything like this, and as I knew that they did 

 not prey on each other, and the question of their conjugation 

 was a very doubtful one, I dismissed the idea of the larger 

 absorbing the smaller, and concluded it was merel}' the fact that 

 they were in too tight a place to allow of their passing each other 

 which gave them this appearance. I watched them constantly 

 for about half an hour, in course of which time I became con- 

 vinced that something unusual was going on. 



The larger amoeba had entirely surrounded the smaller one, 

 which, however, did not seem to lose its vitalit3^ First it seemed 

 to be under the endosarc of the larger, and then above it. 

 Somertimes it would project a pseudopod out from beyond the 

 ectosarc of the larger animal. All the time it was distinctly 

 visible in its own individuality, if one may so call it, and did not 

 at all seem to be trying to escape. I called Mr. Holman's atten- 

 tion to the singularity of their behavior, and expressed my 

 belief that it was a case of either cannibalism or conjugation. 

 He expressed his disbelief in either of these cases, and observ- 

 ing that the water in the slide was evaporating, we allowed a 

 little to creep in under the closed edge of the cover-glass. This 

 seemed to relieve the large amoeba from the constrained position 

 and flat contour which it had assumed, and it immediately com- 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 347 



menced to put out pseudopods and move away ; and the smaller 

 one moved off with it, evidently engulfed in the larger one, and 

 quiescent in that position. 



The small amoeba occupied a position in the upper part of 

 the larger one. As this last moved on, it seemed to push 

 the small one in an opposite direction from that which its gran- 

 ules were taking, till it reached about the centre of its body. 

 Then it commenced an evident effort to expel the smaller one. 

 It reached out its pseudopods in every direction, graduall}- ex- 

 pelling the smaller one until it was completely discharged. The 

 smaller one, by this time, assumed an almost spherical shape. 



At last the large amoeba ceased moving, and commenced to 

 expel refuse matter such as is common with them. It had 

 anchored itself near some other refuse matter, probably vege- 

 table, and really looked as if it was using it as a sort of grapple 

 for the purpose of ridding itself of the rejected smaller amoeba. 

 It was successful ; for in a few moments it moved away to the 

 upper part of the field, leaving the round ball, looking in every 

 respect like an encysted amoeba, near the little group of refuse. 

 It went on in the field, and we followed it for some time, when it 

 became quiet, and we went back to the encysted one. I watched 

 it to see what would happen next, for it seemed as if there must 

 be some strange sequel to our remarkable observation, and the 

 watching was not in vain. The flat disk commenced by a sort 

 of contractile movement, to throw out particles or granules, as if 

 it were laying eggs. I can think of no other expression, although 

 the particles, while approximate in size, had no regularity of 

 shape. This continued till the amoeba again assumed its clear 

 and transparent appearance, and at last, seeming to fully regain 

 its activity, put out a pseudopod and moved in the field, leaving 

 behind it a group of the particles or granules. Only for a little 

 while, however, did it move ; in a few moments it lost its anima- 

 tion, seemed to become transparent, and at last faded into one of 

 those disks which seem to be merely the shells of once active 

 forms. I did not see it move again. 



This observation was carried on continuously during two 

 hours and a half, and every stage watched most closely. I was 

 at a loss what to call it, if not a clear case of conjugation and 

 separation. 




348 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



The most convincing proof to my mind that this was a pro- 

 ceeding which was for a purpose, was given when, two nights 

 after, this slide, which was laid carefully aside for future exami- 

 nation, was found to be full of young amoebae. They literally 

 swarmed ; I counted in the field at one time twenty-four of uni- 

 form size, while I have no hesitation in saying that there were 

 between one and two hundred in the slide, which had before held 

 but two. The worn-out disc was recognized, and also what 

 seemed to be the remains of the larger amoeba. 




1886.] NAttniAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA.. 349 



November 2. 



The President, Dr. Jos. Leidy, in the chair. 



Nineteen persons present. 



The death of Dr. Geo. Martin, a member, October 28, 1886, 

 was announced. 



November 9. 

 Mr. Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., in the chair. 



Twenty-two persons present. 



The death of Chas. C. Phillips, a member, November 5, 1886, 

 and that of John S. Haines, a member, November 4, 1886, were 

 announced. 



The Publication Committee reported that the paper entitled 

 " The Genera Mesonyx and Pachyaena, Cope," by Wm. B. Scott, 

 would be published in Vol. IX, Part 2, of the Journal of the 

 Academy. 



November 16. 



Mr. Thos. Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Twenty -five persons present. 



A paper entitled " On an XJndescribed Meteoric Iron from East 

 Tennessee," by F. A. Genth, Ph. D., was presented for publication. 



* 



On Petiolar Glands in some Onagraceae. Mr. Thomas Meehan 

 remarked that stipules were unknown in Onagracese, but in Lud- 

 wigia (Isnardia) palustris there were two minute conical gelatin- 

 ous glands that appeared to be stipular. They existed in series of 

 specimens representing the Atlantic and Pacific coast, and from 

 Europe, those from California being larger than in specimens 

 from other locations. They are found in all the species of Lud- 

 wigia and Jussieua that he had been able to examine. In these 

 they appeared petiolar rather than stipular. In the dried speci- 

 mens of Circeea a dark spot indicated the position occupied by 

 the glands in other species. They mostly varied in form and 

 exact position with the species, and only for having been wholly 

 overlooked by describers might have afibrded some good specific 

 characters. The discovery he regarded as interesting, as con- 

 firming the views of those botanists who had brought Turnera- 

 cese^ in which the petiolar glands were known to exist, in close 

 relation with Onagraceae. 



In the specimens of Lxidwigia palustris, dried to exhibit with 

 this communication to the Academy, a single capsule only, cut 




350 1>R0CEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



across for examination, projected the seed into his face while the 

 capsule was being examined with a lens, indicating a projecting 

 power not before known to exist in the species. 



November 23. 

 Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair. 

 Nineteen persons present. 



Manganese Zinc Serpentine from Franklin, N. J. Prof. 

 George A. Koenig placed on record the determination of a man- 

 ganese zinc serpentine from Franklin, N. J. The material was 

 collected in summer, 1885, as a very peculiar Willemite, so called 

 at the mine. It is a very compact mineral substance, having a 

 dark brown dull color and subconchoidal fracture, the splinters 

 resembling horn chips. It is translucent on the edges, and when 

 ground into a thin plate transmits a uniform brown-j'ellow light. 

 Under the microscope this section of the purest material shows 

 strings of minute black grains. Between two crossed nicol 

 prisms the section appears light, proving a crystalline structure 

 other than isometric. But a few grains, a light yellow in ordi- 

 nary light, behave like an isometric substance, and are probably 

 grains of yellow garnet, which is one of the associate minerals. 

 Spec. gr. := 2*635. It is decomposed by sulphuric acid like 

 Serpentine. 



The mean of two well-agreeing analyses gave 



Si02 = 42-20 (including 0-298 MgO,0-2 ZnO). 



Fe203= 2-80 



MnO = 7-44 



ZnO = 3-90 



MgO = 29-24 



H2O = 14-04 



99-62 

 Let Fe^O^ be supposed to be present as Franklinite, requiring 

 0*8 ZnO and 0-53 ZnO, then we have 4-15 per cent, of Franklinite 

 mixed with the silicate, and the composition is now 



1-390 

 1-462) 

 0-194 > 1-733 

 0-077) 

 1-533 



100-16 

 This gives the ratio, SiO^ : RO : H^O 



1 1-25 1-1 




1886.] NAtURAI, SCIENCES OF 1>HILADEL1>HIA. 351 



Under the circumstances, that is, in view of the microscope 

 showing the admixture of an isometric or amorphous body, this 

 ratio is sufficient to establish the material as a Serpentine. 



Associated with the Serpentine, besides the minerals already 

 mentioned, is a light grayish fibrous mineral. This is composed 

 of Calcite and two Silicates, a silicate decomposable by Hcl 

 (probably equal to the above serpentine), and a silicate insoluble 

 in Hcl, which is probably a pyroxene. Several analyses have 

 been made without establishing the nature satisfactorily. 



On Miocene Fossils from Southern New Jersey. Prof. Heilprtn 

 called attention to a limited collection of fossils from near Bridge- 

 ton and Jericho, Cumberland Co., New Jersey', representing the 

 Miocene formation of that State. The species identified were : 

 Terehra curvilirata, Turritella aequistriata, Turritella Gumher- 

 landia, Trochita centralis, Fissurella Griscomi, Ghama congre- 

 gata, Astarte distans {^indulata), Grassatella mehna, Area cen- 

 tenaria, Nucula obliqua (proxima), Perna maxillata, Pecten 

 Madisonius^ Pecten sp. ? Orbicula luguhris. 



A number of these forms nearly one-half had not been 

 identified in the State before, although fairly abundant in the 

 Miocene tract of the region to the south. They are therefore 

 interesting as bearing directl}^ upon the question of horizon 

 which the scantily-represented Miocene fauna of New Jersey 

 indicates. The speaker stated that in his work, " Contributions 

 to the Tertiary Geology and Paleontology of the United States" 

 (1884), he had suggested that the probable position of the 

 deposits in question would be found to be in the " Marylandian " 

 series Lower Atlantic Miocene a view sustained by the addi- 

 tional fossils that have now been brought to light. 



On the Eelictites of Luray Gave. Dr. Charles S. Dollet 

 remarked that during a recent visit to the celebrated Luray 

 Caverns his attention was called to the peculiar branching stalac- 

 tites known as helictites (e/J?, a spiral), and the question arose as 

 to the method by which a stalactite gives oflF a horizontal branch 

 at right angles ; this branch in its turn perhaps sending out twigs 

 at greater or lesser angles, and at varying degrees of inclination. 



For a better opportunity of studj-ing this interesting phe- 

 nomenon he was permitted to visit in company with Dr. Leidy a 

 chamber seldom opened to inspection, and which, from the deli- 

 cate and fantastic character of its limy deposits, has been called 

 the " Toy Shop." Here the stalactites were found to be of very 

 recent formation, small, hollow, and increasing rapidly. Many 

 branching specimens, or helictites, in all stages of growth, were 

 to be seen. After some time spent in a vain search for an expla- 

 nation of this anomalous structure, he happened to notice two 

 specimens, the incipient branches of which were directed towards 

 each other ; stretched tightly between the branches, and entering 




362 PROCEEDmGS OP THE ACADEMY 01* [1886. 



the hollow tip of each, was a delicate thread, bearing a string of 

 dew-like drops glistening brightly in the candle-light. Further 

 search revealed numerous specimens in which the lime-water 

 trickling down the stalactite met a similar filament, and being 

 partially diverted bad formed a drop at the point of junction; 

 about this drop beautiful aragonite spicules were forming the 

 hollow horizontal branch, the drop of water in the end being 

 retained in position by the filament piercing it, and upon which 

 it is gradually pushed along as evaporation deposits the lime 

 behind it. The length of the branch depends, of course, upon 

 the length of time in which the filament remains intact. 



These filaments, which are thus seen to be the cause of the 

 formation of lateral offshoots to stalactites, are the products of a 

 small cave spider. 



November 30. 



The President, Dr. Jos. Leidy, in the chair. 



Thirty-three persons present. 



A paper entitled " On Schorlomite as a variety of Melanite," 

 by Geo. A. Koenig, M. D., was presented for publication. 



On Hsematoxylin in the Bark of Saraca Indica. Miss Helen 

 C. De S. Abbott stated that De Candolle ^ and Linnseus describe 

 Saraca Indica as a member of the famil}- Leguminosse. Accord- 

 ing to De Candolle it belongs to the genus Jonesia, Saraca Linn., 

 and is separated by five genera from the genus Hsematoxylon or 

 the logwood. 



In an article on certain drugs indigenous to India, Dr. Waring^ 

 gives an account of the medicinal uses of the bark of Saraca 

 Indica. The attention of Messrs. Parke, Davis & Co., Detroit, 

 Michigan, was called to this drug, and through their correspond- 

 ents in India they secured a supply, samples of which have been 

 submitted to the speaker for a chemical analysis. The full 

 results of this analysis will appear elsewhere, but it is now 

 desired to announce a discovery of practical and scientific 

 interest in this connection. 



A coloring principle, identical with logwood dye, has been 

 isolated by her from the bark of Saraca Indica^ where it existed 

 in two conditions, as hsematoxylin and an oxidized product. 

 The former was separated as yellow crystals, analogous in form 

 to haematoxylin crystals from the true logwood, Hsematoxylon 

 campechianum. The alcoholic extract of the bark contained 

 about 18 per cent, of a red colored substance, which agreed in 

 color and dye tests with a like constituent found in logwood. 



' Pro. Sys. Nat. Reg. Vegetabilis, vol. ii, p. 487. 

 ^ British Med. Jour., June 6, 1885, p. 1145. 




1886.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



353 



Mordanted cotton fabric was dyed with hsematoxylin, extracted 

 by ether from the Saraca bark, and presented the characteristic 

 logwood dye colors. 



The following is a table of dye wood colors with reagents, 

 yielded by Brazil wood and logwood :^ 



The extracts of Saraca Indica bark, containing the coloring 

 principle, were tested with these reagents, arid it was observed 

 that the reactions agreed with the hsematoxylin colors, and in no 

 case with those of brasilin. However, the colors produced by 

 different alkalies varied in tints as she had found in both the 

 logwood and Saraca extracts, but the general term " reddish 

 purple solution " is comprehensive. A rose-violet precipitate 

 was yielded by stannous chloride solution with the neutralized 

 acidified extracts of the barks. 



The bark of the logwood-tree is not used for making the com- 

 mercial logwood extracts, the wood of the tree being employed 

 for this purpose. The presence of a small quantitj^ of hsema- 

 toxylin was determined in the specimens of logwood-bark which 

 she examined, and with the bark extracts the same reactions with 

 reagents were obtained as with the logwood extracts, but owing 

 to the smaller percentage of dye in the bark the colors were less 

 intense. In the case of the Saraca Indica bark the colors were 

 very brilliant and indicated the presence of a larger proportion of 

 the coloring matter than in the logwood bark. These results 

 should encourage investigators to secure specimens of the wood 

 of the Saraca^ in order to determine if it contains the coloring 

 principle, and should this be ascertained affirmatively, whether it 

 exists in sufficiently large quantities to warrant its introduction 

 as a new source of this commercial product. 



To exhibit the colors produced by alkalies upon the dye from 



1 S. P. Sadtler and Wm. L. Rowland, Am. Jour, of Phar., Feb., 1881. 

 24 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



logwood bark and Saraca Indica bark, the powdered material 

 was macerated over the water-bath with distilled or filtered river 

 water acidulated with dilute sulphuric acid (1 part to 50), the ex- 

 tract was filtered and the process repeated until no more color 

 was removed. This extract was treated directly with the reagents. 

 Excess of reagents produced darker tints, and after a time the 

 solutions were decolorized. 



Keagents. 



Hccmatoxylon Campechianum. \ ^^ 



Saraca Indica. 

 yxylon Campechi 



Acidified Extract. 



Sodium Carbonate. 

 Sodium Hydrate. 

 Potassium Hydrate. 

 Ammonia. 



Pale purple to reddish violet sol. 

 Blue violet ppt. and sol. 

 Red-colored solution. 

 Pinkish-purple solution. 



Among other constituents contained in the Saraca bark, catechin 

 and saponin were determined. Their presence along with haema- 

 toxylin is significant as showing the chemical position of Saraca 

 in relation to the genera Acacia and Hsematoxylort ; catechin and 

 saponin being found, as is well known, in Acacia. The evolutionary 

 position of the order Leguminosae, to which these genera belong, 

 was pointed out in a former paper ,^ and it was stated that all 

 orders containing saponin came under the middle division of M. 

 Heckel's botanical scheme,^ or multiplicity of floral elements. 

 The facts accumulated from recent researches, since the publica- 

 tion of her article in the Botanical Gazette, and the discovery 

 of saponin in many plants of widely diflferent genera and families, 

 seem to justify and confirm what was stated in the article 

 referred to above, " saponin is invariably absent where the floral 

 elements are simple ; it is invariably absent where the floral 

 elements are condensed to their greatest extent. Its position is 

 plainly that of a factor in the great middle realm of plant life 

 when the elements of the individual are striving to condense, and 

 thus increase their physiological action and the economy of parts. '"^ 



George McClellan, M. D., and George L. English were elected 

 members. 



Prof. E. Selenka was elected a correspondent. 

 The following was ordered to be printed : 



' Certain chemical constituents of plants considered in relation to their 

 morphology and evolution, by H. C. De S. Abbott. Botanical Gazette, 

 vol. xi, 1886, p. 270. 



* Les plantes et latheoriede revolution, Revue Scieniifique, 13 Mars, 1886. 



^ Loc cit. Botanical Gazette. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



ON SCHORLOMITE AS A VARIETY OF MELANITE. 

 BY GEO. A. KOENIG, PH. D. 



On the basis of a titanium Melanite from a new locality in 

 Southwestern Colorado, the hypothesis is proposed that Schor- 

 lomite from Magnet Cove, Arkansas, may be considered as a 

 Melanite in which Titanium replaces both Silicon and Aluminum. 

 By a series of analyses of Schorlomite and Melanite, it is pro- 

 posed to establish the above hjqoothesis beyond doubt. The 

 following results are merely given as preliminary information. 



The material from Colorado, obtained through Moritz Stockder, 

 Mining Engineer at Lake City, shows the Melanite as black 

 masses imbedded in a greenish yellow, fine granular matrix, with 

 undefined boundaries. No crystal planes were observed. The 

 color is deep black, brownish at thin edges, and in thin plates. 

 It has an uneven fracture, rather resinous lustre. Sp. gr. = 3" 689. 



Thin sections under microscope show the homogeneous charac- 

 ter and optical indiflerence of the substance. 



B. B. several splinters fused at 3 with slight formation of 

 bubbles (CO^). Hydrochloric acid decomposes the mineral very 

 slowly. The analysis gave in two determinations : 



Si02 =30-n 



Ti02 = 8-11 



APO^ = 2-26 



Fe^O^ = 22-67 



CaO =34-29 



MgO = 0-304 



C02 = 1-48 (loss by fusion). 



9982 



0'5 gr. decomposed in sealed tube required 2*2 cc. of per- 

 manganate (titre = 0-0058 Fe). TiO^ + APO^ were separated 

 from Fe^O^ by (NH^'S in tartaric solution, and APO^ from TiO^ 

 by acetic acid according to Gooch. 



Assuming that Ti replaces Si the ratio is obtained (Si, Ti)02 : 

 (Fe, Al)203 : CaO = S-T28 : 1 : 3-49. But assuming that Ti re- 

 places the sesquioxides in part as Ti^O' under the hypothesis that 

 the permanganate was reduced by Ti-0^ we obtain 3*28 Ti-0^ as 

 replacing alumina = 3*64 TiO'^ It having been ascertained that 




356 PROCEEDTNaS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



the loss by ignition is owing to CO^ and not to water, its equiva- 

 lent of CaO was subtracted. Tlius corrected the composition of 



60 = 0-5120 ) 



80 = 0-0560 j ^'^^^ 

 144 =0-0230^ 

 160 = 0-1420 >0-187 



56 = 0-5730 

 40 = 0070 



0-580 



99-47 

 This gives the ratio 



(Si, Ti)0^ : (Fe, Ti, A1)^0' : (Ca, Mg)0^ 

 3-03 : 1 : 3-102 



quite satisfactory to the formula of Garnet 



Ca'(Fe, Al)^ Si^O^^ 



The greenish yellow matrix shows under the microscope an 

 intimate mixture of three minerals, one of which is Calcite, one 

 a green and one a white Silicate. Its composition is given with- 

 out at present expressing an opinion as to its mineral nature. 



Spec. Gr. 3-137 



98-18 



A specimen of Schorlomite from Arkansas was analyzed with 



great care to test the hypothesis that Schorlomite is simply a 



titanium Melanite. The material was like anthracite in lustre 



and color, quite opaque, even in thinnest sections. It decomposes 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35T 



readily with HCL. Tlie reduced permanganate was calculated as 

 Ti^O^. 



Spec. Gr. = 3-876 at 23C. 



Si02 = 25-80 : 60 = 0-430 "I ^.^gg 

 Ti02 = 12-46 : 80 = 0-156 j 

 Ti203= 4-44:144 = 0-031^ 

 AP03= 1-00 : 103 = 0-009 > 0-185 

 Fe^O^ 23-20 : 160 = 0-145 j 

 CaO =31-40 : 56 = 0-561^ 

 MgO = 1-22 : 40 = 0-030 V 0-597 

 MnO = 0-46 : 11 =0-006) 



99-98 

 This gives the ratio 



(Si, Ti)02 : (Fe, Ti, Al)203 : (Ca, Mg, Mn)0 

 3-16 1 : 3-22 



While not so near to the normal ratio, it is near enough, espe- 

 cially considering the difficulty of estimating Ti'O^, in warranting 

 the hypothesis that Schorlomite has the formula of garnet, is 

 isomorphous with it, and exists, as the writer hopes to establish, 

 in a complete series of intermediate members; so much so, that 

 it will be impossible to say where Melanite stops and Schorlomite 

 begins, even though every titanium Melanite be not called Schor- 

 lomite. 




358 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



December 1. ^ 



Mr. Wm. W. Jefferis in the chair. 



Seventeen persons present. J 



A paper entitled, " Observations on the upper Triassic mam- 

 mals Dromatherium and Microconodon," by Henry F. Osborn, 

 So. D., was presented for publication. 



December 14. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Twent3'-one persons present. 



The death of Isaac Lea, LL. D. was announced. 



The following was ordered to be printed : 






1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



OBSERVATIONS UPON THE UPPER TRIASSIC MAMMALS, DROMATHE- 



RIUM AND MICROCONODON. 



BY HENRY F. OSBORN, SC. D. 



In 1857 Prof. Emmons ^ described portions of three small mam- 

 malian jaws from the Upper Triassie (Chatham Coal Fields) of 

 North Carolina, which he assigned to the new genus Dromathe- 

 riuvi. The type-specimen is now in the Geological Museum of 

 Williams College. Another specimen is in the collection of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. I cannot ascertain 

 the whereabouts of the third fragmentary specimen mentioned by 

 the author. I am indebted to Prof. Samuel F. Clarke, of Williams 

 College, for an opportunity of stud3dng the type specimen. 

 Although slightly injured in the original removal of the matrix, 

 this fossil is in beautiful preservation, and gives the complete 

 mandibular dentition, with the exception of two molar crowns. I 

 soon observed that my drawing, made under a camera, did not 



Microconodon and Dromatherium. Natural size. 



agree with that given by Emmons, in his American Geology, Part 

 YI, p. 94, which has since been copied by Owen, Dana and others. 

 This discrepancy was apparently explained later by a comparison 

 of the Williams College specimen with that in the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. In the latter, although the 

 mandible is nearly complete, two molars and two premolars only 

 are preserved, but these indicate a distinct genus. As Emmons 

 referred both jaws to the same genus, it is not unlikely that he 

 supplemented the rather obscure characters of the teeth in his 

 type-specimen with the very obvious tooth patterns of the less 

 perfect specimen. Thus, while the number of the molars in 

 Emmons' drawing follows the type-specimen, their form resem- 

 bles that observed in the Microconodon molars, which will pre- 

 sently be described. 



Those familiar with the works of Professors Owen and Marsh 

 upon the Mesozoic mammalia are aware that sharp distinctions 



1 American Geology, Part VI, pp. 93 and 94. 




3G0 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[1886. 



in the molar series of the mammals of this period do not exist. 

 That is, the only distinction drawn between molars and premolars 

 is one of form ; we have no data as to permanent and deciduous 

 dentition, except possibly in the genus Triconodon. The rule 

 adopted is that, where the post-canine teeth are not all alike, the 

 series of like form following the canine are called premolars ; 

 and those behind these, of another form, are called molars. 

 This rule has been applied to all genera, excepting Phascolo- 

 therium and Diplocynodon, where all the post-canine teeth are 

 practically alike. 



DROMATHERITJM. 

 Dromatherium sylvestre Emmons. 



Generic Characters. Incisors and canines erect. Molars and 

 premolars unlike. Molar-premolar series compact, leaving a 

 wide diastema between the canine and first premolar. Premolars 



Dromatherium sylvestre Em. Magnified. 



high, styloid and procumbent, with no cingulum and probably 

 single fanged. Molars bifanged with high pointed crowns and 

 minute sometimes bifid cusps on the anterior slope and distinct 

 pointed cusps on the posterior slopes. The dental formula is 



Pm. 



M. 



The incisors are nearly erect, and are separated by interspaces 

 equaling the diameter of their crowns, which indicates that the 

 superior incisors interlocked with them. Ij is low and small ; Ij 

 is larger and more erect ; I3 is very high, slender and slightly 

 recurved, resembling the canine. The canine is tall, stout and 

 recurved, and in form is similar to the canine of Peralestes. 

 There is no indication of a double fang. A wide diastema sep- 

 arates this tooth from the premolars. These teeth are styloid 

 in ^hape, and strongly procumbent. The two anterior are appar- 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



ently supported on single fangs. The crowns are subcylindrical, 

 with obtuse tips. The third premolar is larger, more tapering 

 from base to summit, and has an indication of a double fang. 

 The first molar in general outline is transitional between the 

 molars and premolars. On the anterior slope of the main cone, 

 near the summit, is a fine accessory cusp ; while near the base of 

 the posterior slope is a more distinct cusp. The second molar 

 has two accessory cusps on the anterior slope of the main cone, 

 and one on the posterior slope placed half way down. The 

 third molar differs from the others in the large size of the poste- 

 rior cusp. On the anterior slope there is an indication of a 

 small accessory cusp. In the fourth molar the crown tip is de- 

 tached, but there is an indication of the usual anterior and posterior 

 accessor}^ cusps. The fifth molar, besides the anterior and poste- 

 rior cusps, has the trace of a posterior cingulum and possibly of a 

 postero-external cusp. The sixth molar is like the fourth. The 

 seventh molar is the most complex tooth in the series ; like the 

 second, it has two accessory cusps on the anterior slope of the 

 main cone, the uppermost of which is distinctly bifid. The 

 posterior slope also has a bifid accessory cusp, and a faint basal 

 cingulum. The anterior cusps throughout rise like needle-points 

 on the sides of the teeth ; the posterior cusps are more distinct. 

 All the molars are compactly placed with high, rather narrow 

 crowns, and deep depressions above the double fangs. The char- 

 acters of these crowns were made out with the greatest diflSculty, 

 and a more perfect specimen may show slight difference of 

 detail. 



The mandible of Dromatherium is heavy and well-rounded in 

 section. It is marked on its inner face by a deep mylohj'oid 

 groove, widening posteriorly into a broad pterygoid fossa. 

 The upper border rises behind the molars into the coronoid pro- 

 cess, cr. The summit of this process is broken, but a faint impres- 

 sion on the matrix shows that it had a high, slightly recurved 

 outline. A small portion of the hind border seems to be pre- 

 served just above the angle which would indicate that the condyle, 

 cr?, was placed midway between the coronoid and angle, somewhat 

 as in Amblotherium. The thick lower border has a gentle double 

 curvature. There is no trace of the symphysial surface. 



The unique character of the dentition separates Dromatherium 

 widely from any known fossil or recent genus. 




362 



rROCEEDINQS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



MICEOCONODON. 



[1886. 



Microconodon tenuirostris, gen. et sp. nov. 



This genus is founded upon the specimen in the collection of 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, which was 

 described by Emmons as Dromatherium. 



Generic Characters. A wide diastema between the canine 

 and first premolar. Molars and premolars unlike. Premolars 

 simple, erect cones with a faint posterior cinguliim and partly 

 bi-fanged. Molars bi-fanged with broad crowns supporting a large 

 median cusp, at the sides of which are anterior and posterior 

 conical cusps, sub-equal in size, and a distinct posterior cinguliim. 



The ramus is about two-thirds the length of that of Droma- 

 therium. Its general lower curvature is single. There is a de- 

 pression extending beneath the molar-premolar series, but this is 

 shallower than the mylohyoid groove, and I infer that the outer 



Microconodon tenuirostris Osb. Magnified. 



surface of the jaw is the one exposed. The coronoid rises by a 

 gentle curvature above the molars and the fractured portion seems 

 to have left a faint impression on the matrix, which indicates a 

 low rounded contour. The posterior half of the lower border is 

 marked by a downward process, somewhat similar to that in 

 Peramus. The surface of the process bears a shallow fossa. 

 Above this the crotaphyte fossa is faintly marked. The sym- 

 physial portion of the jaw is partly fractured. The matrix bears 

 an impression which may have been left by a tooth, but more 

 probably is accidental. Altogether, the delicate character of this 

 ramus indicates an animal of feebler masticating power than Dro- 

 matherium. 



The molars probably extended backward to the rise of the 

 upper border. If so, the molar-premolar series covered a greater 

 proportional space than those of Dromatherium. This arose 

 from the comparatively broader crow^ns of the molars. By 

 analogy with several other Mesozoic genera, we may suppose 

 that the foremost molar preserved is the second, and that behind 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PBILADELPHIA- 363 



the hindermost were two other molars. This would give four 

 premolars and six molars. Or there may have been three pre- 

 molars and seven molars as in Dromatherium. Unfortunately no 

 casts are preserved to settle this point, and the restoration of the 

 missing teeth is purely conjectural. 



The molars are somewhat like those of Amphitherium except 

 that the crowns are higher and the anterior and posterior cusps 

 arise from the sides of the main cusp instead of from the base of the 

 crown. The posterior basal cusp which may be the continuation of 

 an internal cingulum is well marked, as is the depression between 

 the two fangs. The third premolar is much larger than the 

 first, and has an indication of two fangs. There is a trace of 

 the fang of the intermediate premolar. These teeth, unlike 

 those of Dromatherium^ are erect and do not rise to the level of 

 the molar crowns. The simple premolars differentiate the genus 

 from Amjjhitherium. 



Princeton, N. J., December 20t7i. 




64 proceedings op the academy op [|1886. 



December 21. 

 Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair. 

 Fourteen persons present. 



A New Species of Aplysia. Prof. Heilprin exhibited speci- 

 mens of a new species of Aplysia^ or sea-hare, from Little Gas- 

 parilla Bay, west coast of Florida, The animal in general 

 appearance was probably most nearly related to the European A. 

 depilans (leporina), but differed in several well-marked points of 

 structure, notably in color, the position of the buccal aperture, 

 and in the character of the pore connecting with the shell cavity. 

 While in A. depilans the mouth is placed beneath the tentacular 

 lobes i. e., the latter are superior in the Florida species it is 

 central with regard to these organs, the lobes being circumferen- 

 tially connate, and completely encircling the aperture. The pore 

 leading to the shell-sac is minute, and raised on a small papilla; 

 the stellate markings radiating from the base of the papilla are 

 very feeble, and can barely be discerned without close examina- 

 tion. The shell, which is about an inch and three-quarters in 

 length, is horny-calcareous, deeply emarginate, and striated 

 longitudinally and transversely. General color of the animal 

 sea-green, tinged with purple, and irregularly blotched and 

 speckled with spots of lighter color. Length, 7-8 inches. The 

 animal emits a brilliant crimson fluid. It was proposed to name 

 the species Aplysia Willcoxi. 



ALBERT DOD BROWN. 



Announcement having been made that the collection of shells 

 formerly belonging to Albert Dod Brown had been presented to 

 the Academy by his mother, Mrs. Susan D. Brown, Dr. A. E. Foote 

 stated that Mr. Brown, who was formerly Curator of the Prince- 

 ton College Museum, died April 30, 1886, aged 45 years. He had 

 a well-recognized reputation as a student of conchology, botany, 

 and horticulture, the latter years of his life having been devoted 

 to the last-named pursuit. He was one of the founders of the Con- 

 cbological Section of the Academy, and was for jT^ears associated 

 with it as a member. 



The collection now given to the Academy is to be known by 

 his name, but no other condition accompanies the generous gift. 

 A valuable portion of the collection consists of the cabinet of 

 the late Mr. Thomas Bland, including his tj^pes of "West Indian 



1 

 I 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 365 



shells. By this valuable accession about five thousand species of 

 shells represented by perhaps thirty-five thousand specimens 

 have been added to the already unrivaled Conchological cabinet 

 of the Academy. 



December 28. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Thirty-five persons present. 



The following was ordered to be printed : 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



ON AN UNDESCKIBED METEORIC IRON FROM EAST TENNESSEE. 



Plates IV and V. 



BY F. A. GENTH. 



The history of this interesting meteoric iron is very meagre. 

 In August, 1867, I received from the late Dr. Isaac Lea a small 

 fragment, weighing about five grams, with the request to deter- 

 mine whether or not it was meteoric iron. The analysis (1), 

 finished August 11, 1867, proving it to be meteoric iron, induced 

 Dr. Lea to purchase the specimen. 



Under date of May 11, 1868, the lite Julius E. Raht, of Cleve- 

 land, Tenn., wrote me : "I send you to-day a small piece (it 

 weighed 44 grams. F. A. G.) of meteoric iron, which was broken 

 off from a mass, weighing fifty pounds, which fell about eight 

 5'^ears ago near the State line of Georgia, ten miles from here 

 (Cleveland, Tenn.). The piece has been sold into Mississippi." 



In the fall of the year 1868, the late Dr. James L. Smith, of 

 Louisville, Ky., the celebrated investigator of meteorites, on his 

 return from Europe, wrote to Dr. Isaac Lea, congratulating him 

 on the acquisition of the Mississippi meteorite, regretting at the 

 same time that his absence in Europe had prevented him from 

 securing it for his own cabinet. 



It now remained in the possession of Dr. Lea, until he presented 

 it to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. The 

 Museum record of the Academy simply notes the date of its 

 reception, on October 24, 1876, that it was from the mountains 

 of East Tennessee, and that it weighed 254 pounds. All my 

 efforts to obtain fuller information about its fall and discovery 

 have proved unsuccessful. 



The discrepancy between the weight given by Mr. Raht and 

 the actual weight of the mass, must be charged to incorrect 

 information received by Mr. Raht; this is insignificant, however, 

 compared with the proof which Dr. Smith's letter gives to the 

 fact that his Mississippi meteorite is identical with the one which 

 Mr. Raht stated to have been sold into that State. 



The mass shows on one corner the place where the 44 grams 

 which Mr. Raht sent me had been broken off. 



It is an irregularly shaped, somewhat triangular mass, the 

 largest diameter being about 45 cm,, the height about 40 cm. and 

 its greatest thickness about 22 cm. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 36T 



Its crust is very thin and mostly free from rust, only here and 

 there covered with small spots of the same. It shows one fracture, 

 which, however, cannot be seen on the photographic representa- 

 tion on Plate IV, as it is on the opposite side near the indentation, 

 and extending for about 15 cm, ; its widest part is about 10 mm. 

 in size. 



This meteoric iron appears to be an original whole mass, and 

 not a fragment torn off from a larger one ; its surface is pitted 

 all over and shows numerous depressions and excavations, from 

 a few centimetres in diameter and depth to about 15 cm, in length, 

 8 cm. in width and nearly 5 cm. in depth. The photograph shows 

 beautifully the pitted appearance of the mass. 



Its original weight was nearly 115"5 kilos.; probably 25 kilos, 

 have been cut off in slabs which have been distributed amongst 

 learned societies and individuals. 



The crystalline structure of this meteorite is beautifully shown 

 on three etched slabs which are represented in their natural size 

 on Plate Y, 1 from my cabinet, 2 in the Vaux Collection, and 3 in 

 the general collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences. All 

 three show the very perfect octahedral structure of this meteorite. 

 The specimen presented to me by Mr. Raht gave on etching 

 exactly the same crystalline structure, which adds another proof 

 that both came from the same piece. 



The usual constituents of this class of meteorites are quite 

 perceptible: the Kamacite (Balkeneisen) largely predominating 

 and forming bands from 1 to 3 mm. in width. The Taenite 

 (Bandeisen) enveloping the Kamacite, frequently subdividing in 

 narrow lines the broader bands of the latter. The length of the 

 Kamacite individuals is from 1-5 cm. to 2 cm. It has a dull gray 

 color; when magnified, it can be seen to be intersected in every 

 direction by very fine lines, probably of Schreibersite. The Pies- 

 site, somewhat darker than the Kamacite, mostly shows a very 

 fine crystalline, mottled structure (moire metallique) and a 

 glittering lustre ; a small portion, however, is quite dull and 

 much darker. ^ 



On my specimen, fig. 1, Plate Y, there is in two places a remark- 

 able admixture of an iron which is a great deal smoother and 

 hardly shows any crystalline structure. One begins about 9 mm. 

 below the right-hand corner, fii-st forming a somewhat oval mass 

 of 2 to 3 mm. in diameter and then extending in a dagger-shaped 




3G8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



form for 1 mm. ; the other is 15 mm. from the right edge and 8 or 

 9 mm. below the border, about 12 mm. long, on both ends 1-5 mm. 

 and in the centre about 1 mm. wide. This iron is brighter than 

 any other portion of the edged surface and has a slight!}^ yellow- 

 ish hue. The patches are not perfectly smooth, however, but 

 show many very minute depressions. In the centre where this 

 iron is narrowest and on some portion of the unetched surface of 

 my slab, small spots of rust have made their appearance. An 

 examination proved the presence of considerable quantity of 

 chlorine, from which it is evident that they are the result of the 

 oxidation of ferrous chloride, which this meteorite contains in 

 small quantities. 



The so-called " alteration zone " next to the hrandrind is quite 

 distinct and from 1 to 1'5 mm. in width. 



I have made three analyses of this meteoric iron, the first nearly 

 twenty j^ears ago, of the slightly rusty fragment, sent by Dr. Lea 

 (1), the second of a perfectly fresh fragment of that portion cut 

 off for specimens (2), and the third of the carefully purified saw- 

 dust obtained by this operation, which represents the average 

 composition of the whole mass where it was cut (3). 



They gave the following results : 



1. 2. 3. 



Specific gravity = T"521 



Iron = 88-92 89-940 89.93 



Copper = 0-28 0-080 0-06 



Nickel = 9-82 8-507 8-06 



Cobalt = 0-77 0-690 0-56 



Phosphorus = 0-19 0-109 0-66 



Sulphur = not det'd. 0-006 not det'd. 



99-93 99-332 99*27 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 369 



The following annual reports were read and referred to tlie 

 Publication Committee : 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



The Recording Secretary respectfully reports that during the 

 year ending November 30, 1886, twelve members and four corres- 

 pondents have been elected. 



Resignations of membership have been received and accepted 

 on the usual conditions, from Dr. Charles Harrod Vinton and 

 Jerome B, Gray. 



The deaths of seventeen members and one correspondent have 

 been announced. 



Eighteen papers have been presented for publication, as 

 follows: Prof. Angelo Heilprin, 2; Chas. Morris, 2 ; S. Frank 

 Aaron, 1 ; Calvin McCormick, 1 ; W. D. Hartman, 1 ; C. Rominger, 

 1 ; Chas. D. Dolley, 1 ; Geo. Yasey, 1 ; Jos. Leidy, 1 ; J. C. 

 Arthur, 1 ; Thos. Meehan, 1 ; Lillie E. Holman, 1 ; John W. 

 Eckfeldt, 1 ; Wm. B. Scott, 1 ; F. A. Genth, 1 ; Geo. A. Koenig, 1. 



One of these has been withdrawn ; one will be printed in the 

 Journal ; one has been deferred in consequence of the inability 

 of the Publication Committee to provide the required illustrations, 

 and the others have been reported on favorably and form part 

 of the current volume of the Proceedings. 



One hundred and twenty-eight pages of the Proceedings for 

 1885, and three hundred and twenty-eight pages of the volume 

 for 1886 have been printed, together with three plates. 



Four foreign societies have been added to the list of exchanges 

 to which the Academy publications are sent, making the entire 

 number at present 379. 



The average attendance at the meetings has been 21. Yerbal 

 communications have been made and for the most part reported 

 for the Proceedings by Messrs. Meehan, Koenig, Heilprin, 

 Woolman, Moody, Morris, Potts, Leidy, McCormick, Holman, 

 A. H. Smith, Seiss, Holstein, Allen, Brooks, Sharp, Harvey, 

 Willcox,U, C. Smith, Foote, Gibbons, Horn, Lockington, McCook, 

 Lewis, Ryder, Dolley, Redfield, Tryon, S. R. Roberts and Miss 

 Abbott. 

 25 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



At the meeting held June 22, the Academy, by resolution, 

 joined with other scientific societies in an invitation to the 

 International Congress of Geologists, to hold in America, the 

 meeting after that provided for in London. 



On November 2, a committee consisting of Messrs. U. C. Smith, 

 Thos. Meehan, Angelo Heilprin, Rev. Henry C. McCook and 

 T. D. Rand, was appointed to solicit aid from the Legislature 

 in the erection of an addition to the present building. No result 

 has as yet been reported to the Academy. 



All of which is respectfully submitted. 



Edw. J. Nolan, 



Recording Seci^etary. 



REPORT OP THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



During the year the duties of the Corresponding Secretary 

 have been unusually light, and have consisted in great part of 

 the reception of acknowledgments from corresponding societies 

 of publications sent by us and the usual letters of transmittal 

 from them. As many of our exchanges are now sent through 

 the mail, the acknowledgments are in the form of postal cards, 

 which indicate by their dates how much earlier our publications 

 are brought to the notice of the scientific world. 



The four corresponding members elected during the year have 

 been promptlj'' notified, and letters in return have been received 

 from them and read to the Academy. 



The donations to the Museum have been many and important, 

 as will appear in the Curators' report. It is one of the duties 

 of my office to send receipts for these, but to the Curator-in- 

 charge I must acknowledge my indebtedness for the fulfillment 

 of a duty of which I ofl^icially know nothing, having merely affixed 

 my signature in former years. 



Very little correspondence of a miscellaneous nature has been 

 received, the Bureau of Scientific Information having apparently 

 been communicated with directly. 



Acknowledgments of the receipt of our publications have 

 been received by postal card, in total, 56 ; representing foreign 

 societies, etc., 12 ; American, 15 ; Canadian, 3. 




1886.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



371 



Letters of acknowledgment, numbering 

 From British and Colonial Societies, etc., . 

 From Continental European Societies, etc., 

 From American Societies, etc., 

 Letters of transmittal, number in total, 



Representing twentj'-eight foreign societies 



etc., and but two American. 

 Letters asking deficiencies and desiring exchange 



number 



Miscellaneous letters, 



105 

 16 

 18 

 15 

 36 



11 

 11 



The number of societies with which we exchange publications 

 shows an annual increase greatly to the advantage of those who 

 use the library. 



Respectfully submitted, 



George H. Horn, M. D., 



Corresponding Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



I have the pleasure of reporting to the Academy that 3765 

 additions have been made to the Library from December 1, 1885, 

 to November 30, 1886, These consist of 481 volumes, 3245 

 pamphlets and parts of periodicals, and 39 maps. 



We are indebted to the following for the additions, a detailed 

 list of which accompanies the report : 



Societies, 1513 



Editors 915 



Isaiah V. Williamson Fund, 648 



Authors, 333 



C. H. Hitchcock, , . . . 46 



Department of the Interior, , 30 



University of Kiel, . . , 30 



Wilson Fund, 24 



War Department 24 



Geological Survey of Sweden, 23 



University of Wurzburg, , . 14 



Stuart Wood, 13 



Thos. Meehan, 11 



Geological Survey of Belgium, 11 

 Geological Survey of Pennsyl- 

 vania, 10 



British Museum, 9 



Dr. Jos. Leidy, 7 



Chas. M. Betts, 7 



Geological Survey of India, , 7 



Her Majesty's Government, . 



Treasury Department, . . . 



Engineer Department, U.S.A. 



Australian Museum, . . . 



Geological Survey of New 



Jersey 



George Vaux, 



Geological Survey of Russia, 



Cambridge Scientific Instru- 

 ment Company, . , , . 



Geological Survey of Rouma- 

 nia, 



United States Commission of 

 Fish and Fisheries, . . . 



Geological Survey of Canada, 



Smithsonian Institution, , , 



Hon. Charles O'Neil, . , , 



J, Stockton Hough, . . . 



George W, Tryon, Jr., . . 



E. Indian Government, . . 



6 

 6 

 5 

 5 



5 

 4 

 4 



3 



3 



3 



2 



2 



2 

 o 




372 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1886. 



Wm. John Potts, . . . 

 Minister of Public Works 



France, 



S. R. Roberts 



J. Fletcher Williams, . . 

 Royal College of Surgeons, 

 Bureau of Ethnology. . . 



Isaac Lea, 



Charles C. Abbott, . . . 

 University of Pennsylvania, 

 Department of Agriculture, 



m 



2 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 1 



Geological Survey of Portu- 

 gal, 1 



Adele M. Fielde, .... 1 

 Department of Agriculture, 



Canada, 1 



Geological Survey of New 



Zealand, 1 



S. H. and H. Chapman, . . 1 

 In Exchange (other than peri- 

 odicals), 18 



They were distributed to the several departments of the 

 Library as follows : 



Journals, 2696 



Geology, 315 



General Natural History, . 130 



Botany, 92 



Conchology, 74 



Anatomy and Physiology, . 62 



Chemistry, 62 



Mineralogy, 58 



Physical Science, .... 47 



Medicine, 36 



Voyages and Travels, ... 35 



Entomology, 24 



Bibliography, 15 



Encyclopedias, 18 



Agriculture, 13 



Mammalogy, 13 



Anthropology, 12 



Ornithology, 12 



Helminthology, 10 



Ichthyology, 7 



Languages, 6 



Geography, 5 



Herpetology, 2 



Miscellaneous, 23 



It will be seen from the above summary that our main depend- 

 ence for increase during the year has been, as heretofore, upon 

 our exchanges and the I. Y. Williamson Fund. 



Through the kindness of friends of the Academ}^ I have been 

 again enabled to avail mj^self of the assistance of Sig. Emanuele 

 Fronani during the four months from June 14 to October 14, 

 inclusive. Besides helping me with the routine work of the 

 Library, especially during my vacation, he has completed the 

 copying of more than half of the card catalogue. This work 

 has progressed slowly, as it is only during the engagement of 

 the assistant that time can be devoted to it. It is, however, 

 desirable that means should be provided for placing the cards 

 now prepared at the service of those using the Library. 

 Additional cases for the reception of journals, also, are now 

 absolutely necessary, and it is hoped that an appropriation may 

 be made earl}'' in the jea.Y for their erection. No other depart- 

 ment of the Library grows so rapidlj^, and it is impossible to 

 maintain the geographical arrangement which has been found 

 convenient without more room. 



For the I'eason that I have had to refer to so often before, 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 373 



namely, lack of funds, I have been able to have but 168 volumes 

 bound since the last report. These have been for the most part 

 Williamson books, the work being paid for from the I. V. Wil- 

 liamson fund. Nearly all our exchanges and accumulated pam- 

 phlets remain unbound, thereby not only exposing the Library to 

 loss, but causing serious inconvenience to readers and students. 

 A liberal appropriation for binding, therefore, is one of our 

 immediate and pressing needs. It will be seen by the accompany- 

 ing list of journals and periodicals received, that our exchanges 

 have been kept up and increased. The applications made for 

 deficiencies last year have been productive of their full result, 

 and the gaps still existing will probably have to be supplied by 

 purchase. 



The shelf list begun last year has been carried forward as 

 rapidly as my other duties would permit. Four or five sections 

 of the Library j^et remain to be included, but even in its incom- 

 plete condition the catalogue has proved useful in locating 

 accessions, detecting displacements and facilitating reference to 

 the shelves. 



AH of which is respectfully submitted. 



Edw. J. Nolan, 

 Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The Curators present the following statement of the Curator- 

 in-Charge, as their report for the year 1886 : 



The Curator-in-Charge respectfully reports that during the 

 past year the work of arranging, classifying and preserving 

 the collections of the Academy has made considerable progress, 

 for which, as heretofore, the institution is largely indebted to 

 volunteer labor. The special thanks of the Academy are due to 

 Mr. George W. Tryon, Jr., Conservator of the Conchological 

 Collections, to Mr. John H. Redfield, Curator of the Herbarium, 

 and to Mr. Jacob Binder, Curator of the Collection of Minerals 

 covered by the Wm. S. Yaux Trust, for their disinterested labors 

 in their several departments. To the Entomological Section, 

 likewise, acknowledgment is due for work done in connection 

 with the caring of the collection of insects. 



In the departments other than those here indicated, the work has 




374 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



been done under the immediate superintendence of the Curator- 

 in-Charse and his assistant. Almost the entire collection of recent 

 Invertebrata contained in the Museum barring the Mollusca 

 has been re-arranged and re-classified, and the different groups 

 have been so placed as to follow one another serially according 

 to their position in the natural scale. The very extensive series 

 of crabs, which have heretofore occupied the window spaces on 

 the first gallery, filling some twenty-four cases, have been inter- 

 calated with the general collection of Invertebrata on the top 

 floor, where they occupy practically the entii'e western wall. A 

 re-arrangement of the Carcinological groups, following Ger- 

 staecker, has been eff"ected. B}^ this shifting of the collections, the 

 first gallery will be relegated exclusively to ornithology, the 

 vacated window cases having been removed to the main floor to 

 relieve the crowded condition of the geological and paleontologi- 

 cal collections. Despite this large accession of table cases, and 

 the addition of an equal number from other parts of the hall, the 

 collections of Invertebrate Paleontology will barely find accom- 

 modation. Roughl}" estimated the fossils of the difi'erent geo- 

 logical formations fill some 20,000-22,000 trays, and in point of 

 individual numbers probably do not fall short of 15,000-80,000 

 specimens, or about one-half the number that is registered in the 

 department of recent conchology. The work of arranging the 

 American series of fossils is now practically complete, and con- 

 siderably over three-quarters of the collection is permanentl}* 

 labeled. The re-labeling of the entire series of fossils collected 

 by the late Wm. M. Gabb in Santo Domingo and California 

 has been effected during the year, and much has been done 

 toward re-determining the type fossils of the first New York 

 survey, collected b}^ Mr. T. A. Conrad. The largest and most 

 important accession to this department is a collection of 

 fossils from the Miocene and Pliocene formations of the State of 

 Florida, collected in the early part of the year by the Curator- 

 in-Charge, to whom leave of absence had been granted by the 

 Academy for the purpose of prosecuting researches and collect- 

 ing, in conjunction with the Wagner Free Institute of Science. 

 This collection, together with an extensive series of inver- 

 tebrates dredged in the Gulf of Mexico and in the inland waters 

 of the State, have not yet been placed in the Museum proper, but 

 are temporarily deposited in a side room, where the specimens 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3T5 



may be conveniently studied and determined. This work is now 

 accomplished in great part. 



Some attention has been given during the year to the re- 

 arranging of the collections of Yertebrata. The lizards have' 

 been removed from the south wall of the second gallery to the 

 east wall, and the amphibians to the north wall, thereby placing 

 the collection of reptiles in a continuous series. In the depart- 

 ment of Ornithology, beyond a general oversight of the collec- 

 tions, no work has been accomplished. Some four or five 

 Dermestes-eaten specimens, which had apparently not been 

 properly cured, have been permanently removed from the cases, 

 being no longer fit for exhibition. Barring such sporadic cases 

 of destruction the collection is in a fairly good condition ; never- 

 theless, it is absolutely necessary that an early examination of 

 all the specimens be made by an expert taxidermist, and such 

 steps be taken as will insure the collection from further loss. 



Work in the department of Vertebrate Paleontology has been 

 almost exclusively restricted to the collections of mammals and 

 fishes ; both of these have been entirely re-arranged, and are 

 now much more accessible than they have been heretofore. The 

 large specimens of fossil reptiles from the Lias of England, the 

 valuable gift of Dr. T. B. Wilson, which had been built up into 

 cases on the main floor of the Museum, have been permanently 

 placed on the wall surface of the vestibule, where they are dis- 

 played to good advantage. It is designed to cover the remainder 

 of the wall-space with two large maps, respectively illustrative 

 of the geology of the national domain and of the zoogeographi- 

 cal regions of the earth's surface. The undersigned has charged 

 himself with the preparation of this work. 



The collection of alcoholics is in good condition, the entire 

 series having been overhauled as in previous years. Consider- 

 able alteration has been made in the disposition of the cases 

 throughout the Museum hall, and much floor space has been 

 gained thereby ; but such gains are far from sufficient to satisfy 

 the wants of the institution, the future usefulness of which will 

 be largely impaired unless immediate aid toward the erection of 

 an extension to the present building is aff'orded. It is well within 

 the truth to say that the existing collections, if properly displayed, 

 would completely fill a building of twice the dimensions of the 

 present one. The large and very valuable collections of the 




316 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



Pennsylvania Geological Survey, contained in upwards of 200 

 cases, still remain in the cellar, boxed, for want of exhibition 

 space. The types of the greater number of the fossil plants 

 described by Lesquereux in his Coal Flora of the United States, 

 probably one of the most valuable collections of fossil plants in 

 the world, have been added to this collection during the year, 

 but, for similar reasons, still remain boxed. The report of the 

 Professor of Ethnology and Archaeology indicates that accessions 

 to this department of the Academy's Museum could readily be 

 had were proper exhibition space provided, but that under present 

 conditions the same is impossible. In view of these facts the 

 necessity for an extension to the Academy's building cannot be 

 too strongly insisted upon. 



Of equal importance to the future welfare of the institution is 

 a fund designed for the purposes of zoogeographical exploration. 

 As suggested in our last report, the interest derived from a princi- 

 pal fund of $50,000 would fairly equip an annual expedition to any 

 of the largely unexplored regions lying about our domain, such 

 as Mexico, Central America, the Bahamas, Labrador, etc. Only 

 through this method of research can it be hoped to bring in large 

 accessions of new material to the working naturalist, and thereby 

 place him in direct relation with the problems of nature. The 

 success attending the Florida Expedition of the Wagner Free 

 Institute of Science of this city, which was organized with the 

 co-operation of the Academy in the winter of the present year, 

 fully demonstrates the wisdom of such a plan of explorations, at 

 the same time that it proves its ready feasibility and possible 

 economic character. 



Specimens have been loaned for study during the year to Profs. 

 Whitfield and Britton,of New York, to Profs. Osborn and Scott, 

 of Princeton, and to Messrs. Ridgeway and Yasey, of Washing- 

 ton, all of whom have rendered service to the institution in the 

 determination and description of its specimens. The Academy 

 has also profited through the studies of three Jessup Fund bene- 

 ficiaries, who have at various times rendered service to the 

 Curator-in-Charge; to these persons the Curator-in-Charge begs 



to tender his thanks. 



Very respectfully, 



Angelo Heilprin, 



Curator-in- Charge. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3tt 



REPORT OF THE CURATOR OF THE WILLIAM S. 

 YAUX COLLECTIONS. 



The Curator of the William S, Yaux collections respectfully 

 submits his fourth annual report to the Council of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences : 



The collections are in good order and condition, no change 

 having been made since the report of 1885, except the introduc- 

 tion of one hundred and fourteen mineral specimens, purchased 

 by the approval of the Curators of the Academy, during the year 

 ending November 30, 1886. 



No. of mineral specimens as by report of Nov. 30, 1885, 6,516 

 Purchased between Nov. 30, 1885, and Nov. 30, 1886, . 114 



Total, ........ 6,630 



Archaeological specimens (same as noted in report of 



1885), no additions, 2,940 



The growth of the collection since it came into possession of 

 the Academy is as follows : 



Nov. 30, 1884, specimens purchased, .... 60 



Nov. 30, 1885, specimens purchased, .... 104 



Nov. 30, 1886, specimens purchased, . . . . 114 



In all, ........ 2*18 



These 278 specimens have been purchased at an aggregate cost 

 of $1448.70. 



It will be conceded that the new material added to the mineral- 

 ogical collection since 1883 has very materially improved its 

 character, not only in beauty, but for scientific study. 



Among the specimens most worthy of special note which 

 have been added are a number of fine transparent crystals of 

 Topaz from Siberia. One of these is a crystal 1^ inches square, 

 2^ inches in height, on a matrix of Feldspar, coated with Albite; 

 it is a well terminated rhombic prism, showing the basal cleavage 

 planes with great beauty. Also worthy of mention are a fine 

 specimen of Zircon from Canada, weighing 12^ pounds, made 

 up of a group of square prismatic crystals, measuring 3^x4 

 inches and 9^ inches in height ; a specimen of Stibnite from 

 Japan, a cluster of long, well terminated crystals, with interesting 




378 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



modifications 2| by 3i inches, 18 inches long; specimens of 

 Vanadinite, Wulfenite, and Descloizite, from Arizona ; emerald 

 and Hiddenite from North Carolina. The Tourmalines, Rutiles 

 and Molybdenites, already well illustrated, have received rich 

 addition. 



A number of new species, not before represented in the collec- 

 tion, have been obtained together with many varieties from new 

 localities. 



All the income of the fund has been expended on the collec- 

 tion, except a balance in hand of $513.54, applicable to the pur- 

 chase of new specimens and of books. As the cases are now 

 paid for and no other expense anticipated, the entire income can 

 be used for the purchase of additional specimens and books, 

 which will unless some unforeseen accident occui's always keep 

 the collection up to a high standard of importance. From a 

 scientific point of view it is one of the best public collections in 



our country. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Jacob Binder, 

 Curator. 



REPORT OF THE RECORDER OF THE BIOLOGICAL 

 AND MICROSCOPICAL SECTION. 



During the year the Section held fourteen meetings, with an 

 average attendance of twelve persons. 



At these meetings a great variety of objects was shown. 

 Especial notice should be made of the observations on embry- 

 ology at various meetings by Messrs. Sharp, Wingate and Ryder ; 

 upon the fungi, by Dr. Rex, and upon the different methods 

 of mounting, by Drs. Hall and Brinton. 



The following are some of the more important events occurring 

 during the year : 



December 21, 1885. Lecture by Dr. Thomas Taylor, of the 

 Agricultural Department, Washington, upon " The Work and 

 Results in the Investigation of Butter and other Fats." 



February 1, 1886. Communication by Mr. H. Wingate, upon 

 " The So-Called Visual Organs of the Amphioxus." 



February 15, 1886. Communication by Dr. M. B. Hartzell, 

 upon "Glycerine as a Mounting Fluid." 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



Four lectures were delivered in course by Dr. Benjamin Sharp, 

 upon the " Special Senses," October 18. 



Communication by Prof. J. A. Ryder, upon " The Eggs of 

 Pelagic P'ishes ;" by Mr. H. Wingate, upon " Cribraria purpura." 



November 1. Communication by Dr. L. B. Hall, upon the 

 ''Comparative Merits of Demar and Canada Balsam mounts;" 

 by Prof. J. A. Ryder, upon the " Moulting of the Lobster," also 

 on a " New Section Cutter;" by Dr. J. B. Brinton, upon a " New 

 Cell for Opaque Objects." 



November 15. Communication by Dr. George A. Rex, upon 

 " The Use of the Brass Cell." 



Two new members were elected : Dr. Charles S. Dolley, Prof. 

 John A. Ryder. 



Mr. E. S. Campbell resigned as a contributor. 



The Section passed a resolution of respect upon the death of 

 Dr. J. G. Richardson, who, although not connected with the 

 Section at the time of his death, had been at one time an active 

 and useful member. 



Very respectfully, 



Robert J. Hess, 



Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Recorder of the Conchological Section respectfully re- 

 ports that during the year ending December 1 , 1886, the Academy 

 has continued the publication of conchological papers as hereto- 

 fore. The death of one member has occurred, that of Mrs. Lucy 

 W. Sa.y, the venerable and esteemed widow of the eminent 

 naturalist, Thomas Say, which occurred November 15th last, at 

 the advanced age of 86 years. 



No new members or correspondents have been elected, nor has 

 there been any change in the By-Laws of the Section. 



Mr. George W. Tryon, Jr., Conservator, reports as follows : 



" During the past year, thirty-nine donations and purchases of 

 shells have been received from twenty-six persons, aggregating 

 1252 trays and 7506 specimens. A detailed list of these acces- 

 sions is appended (see 'Additions to Museum '). 



"Among them may be especially mentioned the purchase of 




380 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



nearl}^ 500 species from Greece and the eastern portion of the 

 Mediterranean Sea, collected by Mr. Conemenos; and another 

 purchase of 2*17 species from southern France and the western 

 part of the Mediterranean, collected by M. Dollfus. 



" From the Poljmesian and Australian regions we have re- 

 ceived important collections from Mr. John Brazier, of Sydney, 

 Australia, Mr. Andrew Garrett, of Papeete, Taheiti, and Mr. 

 W. F. Petterd, of Hobart, Tasmania; these collections, num- 

 bering about 200 species, were mostly new to our museum. 



" Shells of our own country have been received from Messrs. 

 Binney, Dall, Dore, Ford, Hermann, Heilprin, Jefferis, Leidy, 

 Mazyck, Morrison, Morse, Orcutt, Pilsbry, Quintard, Redfield, 

 Rush, Sharp, Singley, Stearns, Thompson. These collections 

 embrace some of the new and rare species needed to complete 

 our series, but for the most part add new localities for species 

 alread}'^ possessed by us. Your Conservator purchased from 

 Mr. Sowerby, of London, and presented about 100 species, all 

 new to us, and filling some important gaps in the collection. 



" The Conchological Museum now contains 45,184 trays and 

 written tablets, and 165,858 specimens. 



"Mr. Frank Stout has, as usual, mounted and labeled the 

 accessions of the year, and they have been distributed to the 

 cases in the museum by Mr. Wm. B. Marshall. 



" The work of redetermining the collection, in connection with 

 the preparation t)f monographs of the genera for the ' Manual 

 of Conchology,' progresses steadily. Our species of the fami- 

 lies Calyptrseidse, Xenophoridae, Turritellidse, Csecidse, Verme- 

 tidae, Pyraraidellidse, Turbonillidae and Scalariidaj, have been 

 carefully studied by your Conservator; the Solariidse by Mr. 

 Marshall. In the land shells, the Zonitidse have been completed, 

 and a commencement made upon the Helicidse. 



" In accordance with the new plan of arrangement of the 

 Museum sketched in the last Annual Report, a considerable por- 

 tion of the marine gastropods have been classified, both in the 

 Systematic and Geographical Series, and the Synoptical Collec- 

 tion (a representation of the principal generic types, with printed 

 descriptions of their characters) has been finished. It is believed 

 that for completeness, beauty of arrangement and adaptability to 

 the needs of students, these several collections will compare 

 favorably with similar ones in any other museum. An index is 




188G.] iJATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 38t 



intended to be added to the Synoptical Series, by the aid of 

 which the student, after determining the genus of any specimen, 

 will be referred to the case containing the species ; in the latter 

 he will find represented, either by specimens or colored illustra- 

 tions, all the (figured) species of the genus known to science, 

 arranged in the order of their natural relationships. 



"Much of the success of these features of arrangement is due 

 to the efficient co-operation of my assistant, Mr. Marshall. 



" Messrs. J. H. Redfield, S. R. Roberts and Wm. L. Mactier, 

 have contributed to the Section's collection of autograph letters 

 of conchologists." 



The officers of the Section for 1887 are 



Director, .... W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 



Vice-Director, 

 Recorder, 

 Secretary , 

 Treasurer , . 

 Librarian, . 

 Conservator, 



. John Ford. 



. S. Raymond Roberts. 



. John H. Redfield. 



. Wm. L. Mactier. 



. Edward J. Nolan. 



. Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



All of which is respectfully submitted by 



S. Raymond Roberts, 



Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION. 



(American Entomological Society.) 

 The Entomological Section of the Academy has experienced 

 an improvement this 3'ear, in comparison with preceding ones. 

 The meetings, which have been regularly held, have been better 

 attended, and a more general interest taken in the proceedings. 



One member and five associates have been elected. During 

 the 3'ear the Section has lost two members by death. Mr. Cbas. 

 Wilt, one of the deceased members, was one of the founders of 

 the American Entomological Society, and had been very active 

 in all the work of the Section. His valuable collection of Coleop- 

 tera has been given by his son, Mr. H. C. Wilt, to the American 

 Entomological Society, while the Lepidoptera were purchased at 

 an almost nominal price by the same society. The custodian of 

 the societ}'' is now engaged in arranging these collections. All 

 duplicates will be set aside for placing in the public exhibition of 




382 



IfROCfiEDlNaS OP THE ACADEMY Of 



[1886. 



the AcjUleni}'. This collection for public view is now assuming 

 a more definite form than heretofore, through the earnest efforts 

 of Mr. G. B. Cresson, the Custodian. 



During the year twelve written communications have been 

 accepted by the American Entomological Society for publication 

 in its Transactions, which still continue to maintain their stan- 

 dard of previous years. In addition to these, a work entitled 

 " Synopsis of the Hymenoptera of North America," by Mr. E. T. 

 Cresson, is being published by the society, in separate form, as 

 an intercalary volume. The display made b}^ the Section at the 

 exhibition of the Microscopical Section was of great interest to 

 those present. 



At the meeting held in December, the following officers were 

 elected for the year 1887 : 



Director, 

 Vice-Director, 

 Recorder, . 

 Treasurer, . 

 Conservator, 



. Geo. H. Horn, M.D. 



. Rev. H. C. McCook, D. D. 



. J. H. Ridings. 



. E. T. Cresson. 



. H. Skinner, M. D. 



Respectfully presented, 



J. H. Ridings, 



Becorder. 



REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION. 



The Vice-Director of the Botanical Section respectfully reports 

 that the prosperity noted in past 3^ears still continues, chiefly 

 through the voluntary work of its active members. The Con- 

 servator's account, adopted as part of this report, shows a very 

 gratifying growth in the Herbarium, which is one of which the 

 Academy may be proud. The membership, with some few 

 additions and losses, remains about the same as last year. The 

 Section is wholly free of debt, and has a balance in the treasury. 

 Meetings have been held regularlj'- on the second Monday evening 

 in each month, except during the summer recess, and manj^ new 

 or interesting facts in botany have been brought to the notice of 

 members some of which have been thought worth}" of recording 

 in the Proceedings of the Academj^ 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES Of PHILADEtrHtA. 83 



The oflficers elected for the ensuing year are : 



Director, . . . W. S, W. Ruschenberger, M. D. 



Vice-Director^ . . Thomas Meehan. 



Recorder, . . . Chas. Schaffer, M. D. 



Treasurer, . . . Isaac C. Martindale. 



Conservator, . . . John H. Redfield. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Thomas Meehan, 



Vice-Director. 



Conservator's Report for 1886. The Conservator of the Bo- 

 tanical Section reports that the donations to the Herbarium, 

 during the year just closed, consist of 2452 species of plants, of 

 which 2433 are of phanerogams and vascular cryptogams, and 19 

 of lichens. Of these, T26 species are new to the collection, and 

 among them are representatives of 40 new genera. Of the 2452 

 species, 847 are North American, 858 are from Tropical and South 

 America, and 747 are from the Old World. The total number of 

 species of phanerogams and vascular cryptogams now in the 

 Herbarium is estimated at 26,189. 



A list of the donations for the year is appended to this report. 

 Among them may be specified 232 species of North American 

 grasses from the U. S. Department of Agriculture at Washington, 

 embracing 73 new species. These, with a collection of 54 species, 

 made b}^ F. Tweedy in the Yellowstone Park, make our series of 

 N. American grasses unusuall}^ complete. From Dr. A Gray, of 

 the Harvard University Herbarium, we have received about 300 

 species from the Old and the New World, embracing many 

 novelties. Members of our Section have presented two fine 

 collections made by Pringle and by Palmer in the Mexican 

 province of Chihuahua, consisting of 710 species, of which 267 

 are new to us, and a very choice collection of South African 

 plants made b}- Miss M. E. Cummings, nearly one-half of which 

 were not in our Herbarium. Mr Aubrey H. Smith has presented 

 us 154 species which he collected in Colorado, New Mexico, and 

 California (see Additions to Museum). 



The work of mounting the specimens in the North American 

 Herbarium is still continued, and considerable progress has been 

 made during the past year with the assistance of Mr. Burk. 




^S4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



During this period the N. America species of Gyperus have been 

 carefully revised by Prof. Britton, of Columbia College, New 

 York ; and the perplexing species of Paspalum, bj' Dr, Vasej'^, of 

 Washington. Dr. John W. Eckfeldt has continued his special 

 care of the lichens of the Academy, adding to their number, 

 and has so arranged and catalogued the several collections of 

 this order, as greatly to facilitate reference. Similar work is 

 greatly needed for the remaining order of the lower Cryptogams. 



John H. Redfield, 



Conservator. 



REPORT OF THE MINERALOGICAL AND GEO- 

 LOGICAL SECTION. 



The Director of the Mineralogical and Geological Section of 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences would respectfully report that 

 meetings have been held regularly during the year, but that 

 owing to the enforced absence of several of the more active 

 members the attendance has not been as great as formerly. The 

 additions to the cabinet, while not as numerous as in former 

 years, have been considerable and valuable. A number of them 

 have been purchased with the funds of the Section. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Theo. D. Rand, 



Director. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INVERTEBRATE 



PALEONTOLOGY. 



The Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology respectfully reports 

 that during the 3'ear he has delivered a course of lectures, with 

 practical demonstrations, on geology and paleontology, which 

 course was supplemented by a number of field excursions in 

 the surroundings of Philadelphia. A special excursion, designed 

 for the purposes of original investigation, and extending over a 

 period of two weeks, was conducted during the month of July to 

 Nantucket and Martha's Vine3'ard, resulting in valuable acquisi- 




1886,] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 385 



tions of both zoological and geological material. Special atten- 

 tion was directed to the study of the fossiliferous deposits of 

 the Island of Nantucket, with the result of demonstrating the 

 erroneousness of the hitherto described sections of those deposits. 

 The data obtained during this trip will be published in the 

 Proceedings of the Academy. 



The collections of the Academy in the department of Inverte- 

 brate Paleontology have been, as far as arrangement and classifi- 

 cation are concerned, materially improved during the year ; the 

 entire series of fossils pertaining to American geology is now 

 readily accessible, and in a condition for easy reference. More 

 than three-fourths of this collection are permanently labeled. 

 Roughly estimated, the collections in this department, embracing 

 both foreign and American fossils, occupy upwards of 20,000 

 trays, and are probably second to no other collection in import- 

 ance in this country. Special importance attaches to the series 

 of Cretaceous and Tertiary fossils, especiall}' the latter, in which 

 are included probably four-fifths of all the types that have been 

 described from this country. The Paleozoic fauna is, on the 

 other hand, very inadequately represented, although the collec- 

 tions of the Pennsylvania Geological Survey, now deposited with 

 the institution, will add very materiall}'' to this section when 

 displayed. 



Further reference to the collections in the department of 

 Invertebrate Paleontology is contained in the report of the 

 Curators of the Academy. 



Very respectfully, 



Angelo Heilprin, 

 Trof. of Invertebrate Faleontology. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INYERTEBRATE 



ZOOLOGY. 



The Professor of Invertebrate Zoology respectfully reports 

 that during the past year he has delivered a course of ten lectures 

 on the " Special Senses." 



He further reports that the collections under his charge have 

 somewhat increased. 

 36 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



There is a good collection of marine invertebrates, not yet 

 officially presented to the Academy, from the West Coast of 

 Florida, collected in the spring of this year by Prof. Angelo 

 Heilprin. 



A course of ten or twelve lectures will be given in the spring 

 of the coming year (March and April), the subject being " Sense 

 Organs in the Animal Kingdom." 



Very respectfull}-, 



Benjamin Sharp, 

 Professor of Invertebrate Zoology. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF ETHNOLOGY AND 



ARCHEOLOGY. 



During the last year two short courses of lectures were deliv- 

 ered in the rooms of the Academy, one on the General Principles 

 of Ethnology, the second on the special topic of American Archae- 

 ology. The latter was illustrated by numerous specimens from 

 the collections of the Academy. Both were reasonably well 

 attended, and it is believed that an increasing interest is shown 

 in these subjects. 



Som'e material was added to the collections in this department 

 during the year, but the same difficulty mentioned in the last 

 report, has interfered with obtaining as manj^ specimens as would 

 be practicable that is to say, a lack of space for their proper 

 accommodation and display. 



Respectfullj- submitted, 



D. G. Brinton, M. D., 

 Professor of Ethnology and Archaeology. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 387 



SUMMARY OF THE REPORT OF WM. C. HEJ^SZEY, 



TREASURER, 



For the Year Ending Nov. 30, 1886. 



Cr. 



By Salaries, Janitors, etc $3265 76 



Printing and Binding Proceedings, etc 1431 87 



Printing and Stationery , 154 79 



Repairs 86 36 



Plates and Engravings 71 75 



Gas 9140 



Postage 142 44 



Coal 775 00 



Paper Boxes and Trays 73 43 



Glass 6 35 



Insurance 55 00 



Freight 68 41 



Alcohol 70 50 



State Taxes on Mortgage Investments 123 48 



Examination of Title to West Virginia Lands 100 00 



Water Rents 33 35 



Miscellaneous 635 65 



Inspection of Boiler 10 20 



Prof. Angelo Heilprin. Lecture Fees 62 50 



Benjamin Sharp, M. D. " " 15 00 



D. G. Brinton, M. D. " " 38 00 



Life Memberships transferred to Life Membership 



Fund 150 00 



Dr. 



To Balance from last account |892 15 



Initiation Fees 120 00 



Contributions ( semi-annual) 1489 97 



Life Memberships 150 00 



Admissions to Museum 259 54 



Publication Committee Sales of Proceedings, Jour- 

 nal, etc 645 40 



Microscopical and Biological Section Donation.... 50 00 



State Taxes on Mortgages 113 09 



Interest (Joshua T. Jeanes' Legacy) 900 00 



17460 73 



6222 81 

 $1237 93 




388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



LIFE MEMBERSHIP FUND. (For Maintenance.) 



Income from Investments $ 1 G5 00 



Life Membership transferred from General Account 150 00 



$315 00 



Balance overdrawn last statement 1100 00 



Transferred to General Account 165 00 



2G5 00 



Balance $50 00 



BARTON FUND. 



Interest from Investments $ 240 00 



Transferred to General Account 240 00 



JESSUP FUND. (For Assistance of Students.) 



Disbursements $ 795 00 



Balance per last statement $234 01 



Interest from Investments 560 00 



794 01 



Balance overdrawn 99 



MAINTENANCE FUND. 



Income from Investments $ 205 00 



Legacy of Jno. L. Neill, deceased, on account 5100 00 



$5305 00 

 Transferred to General Account 205 00 



Balance for Investment $5100 00 



ECKFELDT FUND. 



Income from Investments $ 125 00 



Transferred to General Account 125 00 



MUSEUM FUND. 



Balance per last statement $ 55 00 



Income from Investments 50 00 



$105 00 

 I. V. WILLIAMSON LIBRARY FUND. 



Balance last statement $2016 50 



Rents collected 1013 92 



Ground-rents collected 841 55 



$3871 97 



Books $1192 12 



Repairs to Houses 241 09 



Taxes and Water-rents 202 01 



Binding 120 40 



Collecting 92 77 



1848 39 



Balance (Principal, awaiting investment, $1750.00) $2023 58 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



THOMAS B. WILSON LIBKARY FUND. 



Balance overdrawn as per last statement $ 272 33 



Cash paid George N. Lawrence, New York 96 40 



Cash paid B. Westermann & Co., New York, Books 100 04 



Cash transferred to General Account toward Salaiy of Librarian, 300 00 



1768 77 



Less Henry Sothem & Co., London $ 96 69 



Interest on Investments 525 00 



621 69 



Balance overdrawn $147 08 



PUBLICATION FUND. 



Balance per last statement $ 225 00 



City of Philadelphia Loan, July 10, 1868, No. 2945 paid off. 500 00 



Interest from Investments 340 00 



$1065 00 

 Transferred to General Account 340 00 



Balance for investment $725 00 



STOTT LEGACY FUND. 



Income from Investments $100 00 



Transferred to General Account 100 00 



WM. S. VAUX FUND. 



Balance per last statement , $512 08 



Interest on Investments 600 00 



$1,112 08 

 Cash paid for Minerals . . . , 599 54 



Balance $512 54 



H, N. JOHNSON FUND. 



Balance overdravim last statement $ 221 81 



Disbursements 1800 85 



$2022 66 



Interest on Mortgage $ 26 84 



Cash received, to entering satisfaction on Mortgage. . 50 



Rents Collected 1441 96 



Ground Rents Collected 189 00 



$1658 30 



Balance overdrawn $364 36 



The H. N. Johnson Estate was indebted for -^^ of a mortgage of 

 $6000 to Charles J. Wister, the proportion being $1600, which was 

 settled by W. N. Johnson's mortgage to Academy, $1500, and the pay- 

 ment of 100 in cash, and both mortgages were satisfied of Record. 




390 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[1886. 



The election of OflScers, Councillors and Members of the 

 Finance Committee, to serve during 1887, was held, with the 

 followina: result : 



President, 

 Vice-Preside7its, 



Recording Secretary, 



Corresponding Secretary, 



Treasurer, 



Librarian, 



Curators, 



Councillors to serve three 

 years, .... 



Finance Committee, 



M.D. 



Joseph Leidy, M. D. 

 Thomas Meehan, 

 Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D. 

 Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 

 George H. Horn, M. D. 

 William C. Henszey. 

 Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 

 Joseph Leid}'^, M. D. 

 Jacob Binder, 

 W. S. W. Ruschenberger 

 Angelo Heilprin. 

 George Y. Shoemaker, 

 Aubrey H. Smith, 

 George A. Koenig, Ph. D. 

 George A. Rex, M. D. 

 Isaac C. Martindale, 

 Aubrey H. Smith, 

 S. Fisher Corlies, 

 George Y. Shoemaker, 

 Wm. W. Jefferis. 



ELECTIONS DURING 1886. 



MEMBERS. 



January 25. Roland D. Jones, M.D. 



February 23. Miss Mary A. Campbell, F. L. Harvey. 



April 27. Calvin McCormick, Samuel Wagner. 



May 25. Charles P. Sherman. 



June 29. Christian E. Metzler, Charles H. Marot. 



August 31. C. L. Kilburn. 



September 28. Richard H. Day. 



November SO. George McClellan, M. D., George L. English. 



CORRESP ONDENTS. 



January 26. Alfred M. Mayer of Hoboken, N. J. ; Charles 

 Wachsmuth of Burlington, Iowa. 



March 30. J. C. Arthur of Geneva, N. Y. 

 November 30. Emil Selenka of Erlangen. 




1886.] NATmiAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 391 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 



Archaeology and Ethnology. Stuart Wood. Lapp baby-basket. 

 AV. S. W. Ruscbenberger. Spear-bead from Zanzibar, obtained in 1835. 

 Adele M. Fielde. Product from the silk-gland of Cecropia, Swatow, China. 

 W. H. Jones. Collections of Peruvian pottery, Esquimaux implements, 



shoes, fur suit, etc. Indian mask and figure-head, Alaska. 

 J. Collins. Shells from Indian mound, Tennessee. 



Mammalia. "W. P. Gibbons. Sciurus fossor, Thomomys talpoides from 



California. 

 M. Mattson. Lynx, Colorado. 



Birds. S. M. Brice. 81 North American birds, principally from the 



neighborhood of Philadelphia. 

 W. P. Gibbons. 5 species of California birds. 

 A. J. Garrett. Grex Tabuensis if), Pacific Islands. 



Eeptiles. W. W. .Tefferis. Vertebrae of snake. 

 H. C. Chapman. Bothrops airox, Martinique. 



Fishes (Recent and Fossil). A. S. Rowan. Vertebrae of Portheus (?), 



Cretaceous of Fort Randall, Dakotah. 

 A. M. Smith. Dicerobatis Japonica. 



"W. E. Meek. Petromyzon (male and female), from Cayuga Lake, N. Y. 

 W. P. Gibbons. Two uteri of viviparous fishes. 

 J. D. Casey. CarcJiarias Americanus, Townsend's Inlet, N. J. 



Mollusca. Wm. G. Binney. Helix HemphilU, Oregon ; PlanorUs Ucari- 



natus, N. Mexico ; Helix Cantiana, Quebec ; three species of Land 



Shells from the New Hebrides, Tennessee and Lower California ; Pom- 



jyholix costata, Oregon. 

 John Brazier. Twenty-eight trays of Land Shells from Australia and 



New Guinea. 

 C. Conemenos. 497 trays of land, fresh-water and marine shells from 



Greece and the Mediterranean Sea. (Pu.rchased by the Conchological 



Section. ) 

 William H. Dall. Operculum of Fasciolaria princeps. 

 M. Dollfus. 277 trays, Mediterranean shells, principally from the coast of 



France, at Roussillon, etc. (Purchased by the Conchological Section.) 

 Harry E. Dore. 26 species California marine shells. 

 John Ford. 3 marine species, Atlantic City, N. J. ; Ostrea horealis, Lam., 



Greenwich Bay, R. I. ; Area pexata, Say, Atlantic City, N. J. ; Ostrea 



Viiginica, Area pexata and Modiola tulipa, from Cape May, N. J.; nidus 



of Natica, and variety of Mactra aolidissima, Atlantic City, N. J. ; Helix 



hyroides and Succinea obliqua, Wissahickon Creek, Philadelphia ; Area 



pexata, Greenwich Bay, R. I. 

 Andrew Garrett. 96 trays of land, fresh-water and marine shells, mostly 



of the Society Islands ; 69 trays of Polynesian shells, 228 specimens. 



(The above both purchased by the Conchological Section.) 

 Wm. D. Haitman. Photographs of three new species of Partula; Veroni- 



cella Moridana, in alcohol. 

 Theodore Hermann. Five specimens of Spondylus princeps and 8. leuca- 



cantha from the Gulf of California ; Eburna lutosa, China. 

 Angelo Heilprin. Spondylus princeps, Var. 

 W. W. Jefferis. Vermetus lumbricoides, Florida, 

 Joseph Leidy. Modiola modiola, Kennebunkport, Me. 

 Wm. G. Mazyck. Helix terrestris, Charleston, S. C. (naturalized). 




392 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



Prof. J. H. Morrison. Helix nemoralis, Lexington, Va. (introduced). 



S. R. Morse. 9 marine species, Atlantic City, N. J. 



C. R. Orcutt. Chlamydoconcha Orcutti and tliree other marine species, 



San Diego, Cal. 

 W. T. Pettard. 21 species land and fresh-water shells, Tasmania. 

 H. A. Pilsbry. 7 species land and fresh-water shells, Louisiana and Texas. 

 J. B. Quintard. 27 trays fresh-water shells, from Kansas. 

 John H. Redfield. Pecten Magellanicus, Mt. Desert Isl., Me. 

 "Wm. H. Rush. 2 species of Nudibranchs, from Florida and the Bahamas. 

 Beuj. Sharp. Dry preparation of Limax agrestis, Philadelphia. 

 J. A. Singley. 27 species of land and fresh-water shells from Texas. 



(Purcliased by the Conchological Section.) 

 R. E. C. Steams. 3 species of marine shells from the W. Coast of America. 

 Rev. J. M. Thompson. Bulimus scalariformis. 

 Geo. W. Tryou, Jr. 115 species marine, land and fresh-water shells, new to 



the collection. 



Invertebrates (recent) generally, excluding MoUusca. J. Ford. Micro- 



sciona prolifera, Atlantic City,N. J. 

 P. C. Tucker, Jr. Renilla Dame, Galveston Beach, Texas. 

 G. H. Parker. Tubuluria indivisa, Atlantic City, N. J. 

 H. M. Smith. Mithrax spinosissimus, West Indies. 

 B. Sharp. Cymothoa (from Crenilabrus), Villefranche, France. 

 A. Orr. Oecarcinus lateralis, Jamaica. 

 W. A. Stewart. Libinia canaliculata, Arkadelphia, Arkansas. 



Invertebrate Fossils. A. D. Durbishire. 30 species of British Plio- 

 cene and Post-Pliocene fossils (in exchange). 



T. H. Aldrich. 23 trays Eocene and Oligocene fossils, from Alabama and 

 Mississippi ; 9 species of Alabama Eocene fossils. 



E. T. Dumble. 15 trays Eocene fossils from Texas. 



A. G. Wetherby. 9 trays Oligocene fossils from Florida. 



F. L. Harvey. Anthracomartus trilobitus, Subcarboniferous of Arkansas ; 

 Ostrea larva, Cretaceous of Arkansas. 



G. W. Ti-you, Jr. 95 species of Eocene fossils from the Paris Basin, col- 

 lected by M. Antheaume ; 46 species of Tertiary fossils from the same 

 region ; 5 species of French Cretaceous fossils. 



A. Heilprin. Pygidium of Phacops, Upper Silurian of Walpack Bend, Pa. 

 J. M. Hodgin. Calymene Blumenbachii, Easton, O. 

 H. B. Abbott. Collection of Miocene fossils from Southern New Jersey. 

 A. F. Gentry. 4 trays Miocene fossils from Southern New Jersey. 



Plants (Recent). Aubrey H. Smith. 156 species of plants collected 

 chiefly by himself in Colorado, New Mexico, and California, in May and 

 June, 1884. 



J. Bernard Brinton. 4 species of plants from Louisiana and Lower 

 California. 



J. H. Sandberg, Red Wing, Minnesota. 22 species of plants collected 

 by him in Nez Perce Co., Idaho, in 1885. 



Chas. S. Sargent, of the Arnold Arboretum, Mass. 21 species of trees 

 and shrubs, mostly from the Southern United States. Shortia galacifolia 

 Gr., from Michaux's original locality, Toxauay R., S. Carolina. 



Horace J. Smith. Pinus Tada L., from Aiken, S. C. 



Frank Tweedy, through F. L. Scribner of the Agricultural Department, 

 Washington, D. C. 54 species of grasses collected in the Yellowstone 

 Park in 1885. 



Wm. M. Canby. 255 species of plants from Southern Europe and North- 

 em Africa, mostly from the herbarium of John Ball, London. 




1886.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



Asa Gray. 43 species of plants collected in British America by J. M. 

 Macoun ; 65 species collected by Gaumer at Cozumel I., on the coast of 

 Yucatan; 88 species from Northern, Western, and Central Asia and 

 Japan, by various collectors ; 76 species, mostly from Northern Africa 

 and Asia ; 52 species, mostly from Porto Rico. 



Isaac C. Martindale. Dalea plumosa Wats., new species from Chihuahua, 

 Mexico. 



Geo. Vasey. U. S. Department of Agriculture. 233 species of North 

 American grasses, many of them new. 



Thomas Meehan. 55 species of plants, mostly cultivated, and many of 

 tliem new to the collection. 



Thomas Meehan and John H. Redfield. 308 species of plants collected by 

 Dr. E. Palmer, inS. W. Chihuahua, Mexico, Aug.-Nov, 1885 ; 315 species 

 of South African plants, collected by Miss M. E. Cummings. 



Helen C. De S. Abbott. Trunk of Fouquiera splendens, from Lake Valley, 

 New Mexico. 



Mrs. E. H. Williams. 18 species of Chilian plants. 



F. W. Harvey. 18 species of plants from S. W. Arkansas. 



Thos. C. Porter. 24 species of plants from New Jersey and Pennsylvania. 



Joseph Leidy. Omitliogalum nutans, Wissaliickon, Phila., Garden scape. 



John W. Eckfcldt. 19 species of N. Ameiican Lichens. 



Miss Harrison, through Mrs. M.L. Owen, Springfield, Mass., Myriophyl- 

 lum Mppuroides Nutt. , from California. 



Isaac Burk. 4 species of New Jersey plants. 



H. C. McCook. Agave Sisalana, fine living plant in flower, from Florida. 



Josiah Hoopes. Flowers, leaves, and ascidia of Nepenthes distillatoria. 



Miss Fisher. Polygala incarnata, near Charleston, S. C. 



John H. Redfield. 402 species of plants collected by C. G. Pringle in 1885 

 in the border provinces of Mexico, mostly in Chihuahua ; 55 species, 

 mostly from Washington Territory and California ; 76 species from the 

 coast of New England ; 86 species, mostly southern and western, to 

 supply desiderata in the collection. 



Plants (Fossil). W. D. Hartmann. Fern (?) stems from the Triassic of 



Pennsylvania. 

 F. L. Harvey. Whittleseya micropliylla, sub-Carboniferous of Arkansas. 

 A. F. Gentry. Quatenary leaf im])ressions, Bridgeton, N. J. 

 S. D. Button. Plant impressions {Vexillumf), from the Devonian of the 



Catskill Mountains, N. Y. 



Minerals and Rocks. H. N. Dubois. Gibbesite. Poughkeepsie, N. Y. ; 

 Slickensided Medina sandstone, Delaware Water Gap, Pa. 



C. H. McCormick. Zoisite, Leiperville, Pa. ; kyanite, Chester Co., Pa.; 

 peacock-coal, Philadeliihia, Pa. 



J. D. Button. Sider te nodule, Sligo Junction, Pa. 



W. W. Jeflferis. Smithsonite, Mineral Point, Wis.; sphalerite, Joplin, 

 Mo.; bioiite, Delaware Co., Pa.; phlogopite, Burgess, Can.; moonstone, 

 Delaware Co., Pa.; euphyllite, Unionville, Chester Co., Pa.; selenite, 

 Lebanon Co., Pa.; aurichalcite, Laurium ('?), Greece; chesteitite, Ches- 

 ter Co., Pa.; siderite and hematite, Antweri), N. Y. 



J. T. Morris. Boulders from the Muir Glacier, Alaska ; garnet schist, 

 Stickeen River, Alaska. 



T. D. Rand. Concretionary weathering in gneiss, Radnor, Pa.; tiaji, 

 Radnor, Pa. 



S. Durliorow. Ferruginous earth, Bartram, Fla. 



H. Derousse. Rock from McElwain's oil well, Duke Centre, Pa. 



M. Hannah. Irish turf. 



W. B. Eltonhead. Limestone, N. C. 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF ^HE ACADEMY Of [I886. 



F. L. Harvey. Carboniferous rock, Siloam Springs, Ark. 



C. S. Bement. Meteorite, Alfianello, Italy ; garnet crystal, Colorado. 



G. F. Kunz. Meteorite, Jenny's Creek, W. Va. 



C. U. Shepard. Meteorite, Dalton, Ga. 



E. J. Nolan. Hematite ore, Bessemer, Mich. 

 M. Russell. Concretionary nodule, Woodbury, N. J. 

 J. Edgerton. Stalactitic quartz, Belmont Creek, O. 

 L. Woolman. Fossiliferous boulder, Tacony, Pa. 

 A. Heilprin. Cambrian pebble, Glassboro, N. J. 



D. Mickle. Boiler incrustation. 



A. Brezina. Glorietta meteorite (fragment). 



D. P. Williams. Gneiss, with enclosure of feldspar, Aldham, Chester 

 Co., Pa. 



E. C. Hine. Magnetic iron and iron ore, fragment of trap-dike, Potsdam 

 sandstone, and glaciated boulder, from Chateaugay, N. Y. 



C. P. Perot. Ferro-manganese, Edgar Thompson Steel Works, Pittsburg, 



Pa. ; coke, same locality. 

 W. H. Jones. Silver ore, Oroya, Peru; silver ore (no loc); silver ore, 



Triumfu Mines, L. California; cinnabar, St. John's Mine, California; 



cinnabar. New Almaden, California; copper ore, Coquimbo, Chili. 

 J. Rather. Devonian shale, Lycoming Co., Pa. 

 J. M. Birkey. Camelian (no Inc.). 

 Editor PhiladelpJiia Public Ledger. Fissure products from the Carolina 



earthquake. 

 U. S. National Museum. Meteorite, Grand Rapids, Mich. 



Additions to the Wm. S. Vaux Collection. Turquoise, New Mexico ; 

 Molybdenite. Canada ; 3 Spinel Ruby, St. Petersburg ; 2 Sphalerite, Mis- 

 souri ; 2 Calcite on Sphalerite, Missouri ; 2 Astrophyllite, Colorado ; 2 

 Topaz, Colorado ; Sphalerite, Missouri ; Orthoclase, Missouri ; 3 Azuvite, 

 Arizona ; 2 Malachite, Arizona ; 2 Malachite and Cuprite ; 3 Ouvarovite. 

 Canada ; 3 Prehnite, Hartz ; 2 Rutile and Mica, North Carolina ; 2 

 Vanadinite, Arizona ; 2 Cut Aqua-marine, Brazil ; 2 Garnet, Ceylon ; 

 2 Wulfenite, Arizona ; 2 Opal, Mexico ; 2 Yellow garnet, Siberia ; 2 

 Calcite, Chihuahua ; 2 Jlhodochrosite, Colorado ; Gypsum, Chihuahua ; 

 Quartz; 2 Amethyst, Geimany; Celestite, Lake Erie; 2 Celestite, 

 Texas ; 4Marcasite, Missouri ; Sphalerite, Missouri ; 3 Obsidian, Mexico; 

 Opal, Mexico; Tridymite, Mexico; Valentinite, Mexico ; Quartz. Mexico ; 

 Calcite, Mexico ; 6 Geodes, Florida ; Diamond in Bort, Brazil ; Quartz, 

 New Jersey ; Silver Amaloam, Peru ; Garnet, cut spe. ; 4 Phlogopite, 

 New York ; 2 Phlogopite, Canada ; 3 Muscovite ; Apophyllite, Pennsyl- 

 vania ; Emerald, North Carolina ; Microcline, Colorado ; Silicified Wood, 

 Colorado ; Five-pound Garnet, Colorado ; Stromyerite, Mexico ; 3 Topaz, 

 Siberia ; Kyanite, Pennsylvania ; Dog Tooth Spar, New York ; Coi-undum, 

 North Caiolina ; Pyrargyrite, Saxony; Celestite, Tumerlee ; Cairngorm ; 

 Specular Iron, Elba ; Smoky Quartz, Colorado ; Witl-erite, England ; 

 Aragonite, Pennsylvania ; Milarite, Tavetch ; 2 Hyalosiderite, Germany ; 

 Steatite ; 3 Chalcopyrite, Pennsylvania ; Tetrahedrite, Pennsylvania ; 

 Magnetite, Pennsylvania ; Crystal of Limonite, Pennsylvania ; 3 Calcite, 

 England ; 3 Tourmaline, New Jersey; Rhodochrosite, New Jersey; Fossil 

 Coral, Iowa ; Hiddenite, North Carolina ; Alabandite, Mexico ; Iridescent 

 Bknde, Mexico. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 395 



ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 



1886. 



Aaron, S. Frank. The North American Chrysididse. 8vo, T. 



On some new Psocidse. 1886, 8vo, T. The Author. 



Adami, Giov. Battista. MoUuschi dei dintomi di Sassari in Sardegna. 

 8vo, T. 

 Elencodei moUuschi terrestre e fluviatili viventi nella Valle dell' Oglio. 



8vo, T. 

 MoUuschi postpliocenici della Torbiera di Polada presso Lonato. 1881. 



8vo, T. 

 Novita malacologiche recenti. 1885. 8vo, T. The Author. 



Abbott, Charles C, M. D. Upland and meadow, a Poaetquissings Chron- 

 icle. 8vo. New York, 1886. The Author. 

 Abbott, Helen C. De S. Preliminary analysis of the bark of Fouquiera 

 splendens. 1884. 8vo, T. 

 Yucca angustifolia, a chemical study. 4to, T. Philada., 1886 



The Author. 

 Acharius, Erik. Lichenographia Universalis. Gottingse, 1810. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Adams, Lionel Ernest. The collector's manual of British land and fresh- 

 water shells. 1884. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Alabama, Geological survey of. Bulletin No. I, 1 and 2. The Authors. 

 Albrecht, P. Sur la non-homologie des poumons des vertebres pulmones 

 avec la vessie natatoire. 8vo, T. Paris, 1886. 

 Ueber die Wirbelkorperepiphysen und Wirbelkorpergelenke zwischen 

 dem Epistropheus, Atlas undOccipitale der Saugthiere. 8vo, T. 1884. 

 Zur Zwischenkieferfrage. 8vo, T. 1885. 



Ueber die morphologische Bedeutung der Pharynxdivertikel. Ueber 

 die Shepherd' schen Frakturen des Astragalus. Ueber kongenitalen 

 Defekt der drei letzten Sakral- und sammtlicher Steiszwirbel beim 

 Menschen. Ueber sechsschneidezahnige Gebisse beim normalen 

 Menschen. Ueber zweiwurzelige Eck- und Schneidezahne beim 

 Menschen. Svo, T. 1885. 

 Epiphyses entre I'occipital et le sphenoide chez I'homme ; Os trigone 

 du pied chez I'homme. Epihallux chez I'homme. 8vo, T. 1885. 



The Author. 

 Vergleichend anatomische Uutersuchungen. I, 1. 8vo. Hamburg, 

 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Allgemeine Naturkunde. Lief. 2-54. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Amann, Rud. De Cor ppo priorum poetarnm latinorum imitatore. Dissert. 

 Inaug. Acad. Kilieiisi. 8vo, T. 1885. University of Kiel. 



American Ornithologists' Union. The Code of Nomenclature and Check- 

 list of North American birds. 8vo. New York. 1886. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Ancey, M. C. F. Nouvelles contribu.tions malacologiques. 8vo. Juillet. 



1885. The Author. 



Andre, Ernest. Devixieme supplement au species des Formicides d' Europe 



et des Pays limitrophes. Dec, 1885. 8vo, T. The Author. 



Suitplement au species des Formicides d'Europe et des Pays limitrophes. 



8vo. T. 1885. The Author. 



Andree, Richard. Die Anthropophagie. Svo, T. Leipzig, 1887. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Appellof, A. Japanska Cephalopoder. Stockholm, 1886. 4to. T. 



The Author. 




396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



Argentine Republic. Stelzner's BeitrJige zur Geologic und Palseontologie. 

 8vo, 



Arnold Arboretum. Annual report of the Director for 1884-85, Cam- 

 bridge, Mass., 1886. 8vo, T. The Author. 



Arnold, Julius. Beitrage zur Entwicklungsgeschichte des Auges. Hei- 

 delberg. 1874. 8vo. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Ashbumer, Chas. A. The product and exhaustion of the oil regions of 

 Pennsylvania and New York, 8th September, 1885. 8vo, T. 

 The geology of natural gas in Pennsylvania and New York, 8th Sep- 

 tember, 1885. 8vo, T. The Author. 



Astor Library, 37th annual report of the trustees of the, 1885. 8vo, T. 



The Trustees, 



Aurivillius, Carl W. S. Oversigt ofver de af Vega-Expeditionen insam- 



lade arktiska HafsmoUusker. II, Placophora och Gastropoda. 4to, 



T. 1885. 



Hafseverteb rater fran norrlligaste Tromso anat och Yestfinmarken. 



Stockholm, 1886. 8vo, T. The Author. 



Australian Museum. Ramsay's Catalogue of the Echinodermata. Part 

 I. 8vo. Sydney, 1885. The Museum. 



Autograph Letters of Conchologists. 2 vols. Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Baculo, Bartolomeo. Nuove ricerche intorno I'apparato gauglionare in- 

 trinseco dei cuori linfatici. 8vo, T. Napoli, 1885. The Author. 



Balfour, Francis Maitland, Memorial Edition. The Works of Francis 

 Maitland Balfour, 8vo, 4 vols. London, 1885, 



Cambridge Scientific Instrument Co. 



Baillon, M. H. Dictionnaire de Botanique. Fasc. 19 and 20. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Barcena Mariano and Miguel Perez. Estudios de Meteorologia comparada. 

 I. The Authors. 



Bargum, .Josias. Ein Fall von Actinomykosis hominis unter dem Bilde 

 eineracuten Infectionskrankheit verlaufend. Inaug. -Dissert, medic, 

 Facultat zu Kiel. 8vo, T. 1884. University of Kiel, 



Barral, J, A,, et Louis Passy, Soc, Nat, d'Agric. de France, Enquete sur 

 le Credit Agricole. II. 8vo, T. Paris, 1885. The Society. 



Barton, E. H., M. D. Report to the Louisiana State Medical Society on 

 the Meteorology, Vital Statistics and Hygiene of the State of Loui- 

 siana. 8vo, T. New Orleans, 1857. Wm. John Potts. 



Bastian, A. Die Culturlander des alten America. 111,1. Berlin, 1886. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Bauer, Max. Lehrbuch der Mineralogie. 8vo. Berlin, 1886. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Beauchamp, W. M. Land and fresh-water shells of Onondaga County. 

 8vo, T. Baldwinsville, N. Y., 1886. The Author. 



Becker, Ernst F., Ph. Zur Aetiologie der Darmeiuschiebunsen. luaug.- 

 Dissert. medicin. Facultiit in Kiel. 8vo, T. 1885. University of Kiel. 



Belgium. Musee Royal d'Histoire Naturelle de Belgique, Service dela 

 Carte geologique du royaume. Explication de la feuille de Meix- 

 Devant-Virton, Wacken, Thourout, Roulers, Marche, Sautour, 

 Durbuy, with Maps. The Survey. 



Bentham, George. Catalogue des Plantes Indigenes des Pyrenees et du 

 Bas Languedoc. A Paris. 8vo. 1826. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Berg, C. Ueber die Lepidopteren-Gattung Laora, Walk. 8vo, T. 1885. 

 Observaciones sobre los estados preparatorios de algunos lepidopteros 



Argentines. 1886. 8vo, T. 

 Notas sinonimicas acerca de algunos Cerambicidos de la Fauna Ar- 

 gentina, 1886. 8vo, T, The Author, 



Berghaus' Pliysikalischer Atlas, Lief. 1-4, I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Berlese, Aug. Napoleone. Fungi Moricolse, F. II and III. 



I. V. Williamson Fvmd. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 397 



Berthoud, E. L. A Sketch of the Natchez Indians. 8vo, T. Golden, 1886. 



The Author. 

 Bessaritsch, Johann. Die Bandwiirmer des Menschen, 8vo, T. 1885. 



University of Wiirzbiirg. 



Binney, W. G. A manual of American land shells. (Bui. U. S. Nat. 



Mus. 28). 1885. The Author. 



Blass, Fred. Dissertatio de PhaBthontis Euripidt a; fragmentis claronion- 



tanis. Mar. 22, 1885. Univ. Christian, Albert Kiliensis. 



Die socialen zustande Athens im 4. .lahrhundert v. Chr. Rede, 



Christian- Alb rechts-Univer., 8vo, T. Kiel, 1885. University of Kiel. 



Bock, Carl. Temples and Elephants. 8vo. London, 1884. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Bohemia. Naturwissenschaftliche Landesdurchforschung von Bohmen, 



Archiv., v, 4-6. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Bolton, H. Carriugton. Report of the Committee on indexing chemical 



literature. 8vo, T. The Author. 



Bombicci, L. Sul giacimento e sulle forme cristalline della Diatolite della 



Serra dei Zanchetti (Alto Api^eunino Bologuese). 24 Gen., 1886. 



4to, T. 



Sulla contorsione di tipo elicoide nei fasci prismatic! di antimonite d^^l 



Giappone. 24 Gennaio, 1886. 4to, T. The Author, 



Borre, A. Prendhomme. Analyse de deux travaux recents de MM. Scudder 



et Ch. Brongniart sur les Articules fossiles. 8vo, T. Nov. 1, 1885. 



The Author. 



Boulenger, George Albert. Catalogue of the Lizards in the British 



Museum (Natural History). 2dEd.,ii. London, 1885. The Trustees. 



Bourguignat, M. J. R. Mollusques terrestres et fluviatiles recueillis par 



M. Paul Soleillet, dans son voyage au Choa (Ethiopie meridionale). 



8vo, T. 1885. 



Especes nouvelles et genres nouveaux decouverts par les Rev. Peres 



Missionnaires dans les grands Lacs Africains Oukeiewe et Tan- 



ganika. 8vo, T. Paris, 1885. 



Nouveautes Ulalacologiques. I. Unionidse et Iridinidse du Lak Tan- 



ganika. 8vo, T. 1886. The Author. 



Brandis, Julius. Ein Fall von Dickdarmsyfilis. Inaug. Dissert, medicin. 



Facultat in Kiel. 8vo, T. 1884. University of Kiel. 



Branner, John C. Glaciation of the Wyoming and Lackawanna Valleys. 



8vo, T. Feb. 19, 1886. The Author. 



Braun, M. Das Zootomische Practicum. 8vo. Stuttgart, 1886. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Brauns, Julius. Ueber Quelle und Entwicklung der altfranzosischen 



(JanQun de Saint Alexis. Inaug. -Dissert, philos. Fakultat Univ. 



zu Kiel. 8vo, T. 1884. The University. 



Brazier, J. Synonymy of some land mollusca from Papua or New Guinea. 



8vo, T. 1884. 



Synonymy of and remarks upon the specific names and authorities of 



four siiecies of Australian marne shells, originally described by Dr. 



John Edward Gray, in 1825 and 1827. 8vo, T. June, 1885. 



The Author. 

 Bredichin, Th. Sur les Oscillations des jets d' Emission dans les cometes. 

 Moscou, 1885. 8vo, T. 

 Les syndynames et les synchrones de la comete Pons-Brooks (1883- 



1884). 8vo, T. (15, Oct. 1884). 

 Sur les Anomales apparentes dans la structure de la grande Comete 



de 1744. 8vo, T. Moscau, 1884. 

 Quelques remarques coucemant mes recherches sur les Comets. 8vo, 



T. Moscau, 1884. 

 Sur la queue du premier type de la Comete de 1744. Svo, T. Nico- 

 lajeff, 1884. The Author. 




398 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



Brezina. A. and E. Cohen. Die Structur und Zusammensetzun<T der Mete- 



oreisen. Lief. I, Stuttgart, 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Brinton, D. G. (Iconograpliic Encyclopedia, II), Prehistoric Archaeology. 



1886. The Author. 



Ikonomatic Writing. 1886. 8vo, T. Phila. The Author. 



British Association for the advancement of Science. Montreal Meeting, 



1884. Canadian economics. 8vo. Montreal, 1885. 



The Montreal Committee. 

 British Museum (Nat. Hist.). An Introduction to the Study of Meteorites. 

 8vo. 

 Richard Lydekker's Catalogue of Fossil Mammalia. III. 

 Arthur Gardiner Butler's Illustrations of Typical Specimens of Lepi- 

 doptera Heterocera in the Collection of British Museum. Part VI. 

 Etheridge and Carpenter's Blastoidea, 1886. 

 Philij) Lutley Sclater's Catalogue of Birds, Part 11. 

 Boulenger's Catalogue of Lizards. Second Ed., II, 1885. 

 A guide to the exhibition galleries of the deparment of geology and 

 palaeontology in the British Museum (Natural History) (Woodward), 

 1886. The Trustees. 



Brocchi, P. Traite de Zoologie Agricole. Svo. Paris, 1886. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Brockhaus, Fried. Nikolaus Falck. Eine akad. Gedachtnissrede. 8vo, T. 



Kiel, 1884. University of Kiel. 



Bronn's Klassen und Ordnungen des Thierreichs. 5er Bd., II Abth/, 16, 



17 ; 6er Bd., Ill Abth., 48-53, IV Abth., 11-15, V Abth., 28. 



Wilson Fund. 

 Brooks, Charles Walcott. Early Migrations, Arctic Drift and Ocean Cur- 

 rents. 8vo, T. San Francisco, 1884. The Author. 

 Brown, Robert. Prodromus Florae Novse Hollandise et Insulae Van Diemen. 

 Vol. I. Londini, 1810. I, V. Williamson Fund. 

 Buckler, Wm. The Larvae of the British Butterflies and Moths, edited by 

 H. T. Stainton, F. R. S. Vol. I, The Butterflies. Svo. London, 1886. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Bucquoy, E., Ph. Davitzenberg and G. Dollfuss. Les mollusques marins 



du Roussillon. F. 10-12. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Budapest. Exposition National de 1885. Catalogue raisonne. Redige par 



Joseph Korosi. Berlin, 1885. 8vo, T. 

 Buffalo Library. Finding-List, Part II. Svo, T. Buffalo, 1886. 



The Trustees. 

 Bureau of Education. Circulars of Information. Nos. 3 and 4, 1885. 



Department of the Interior. 

 Bureau of Ethnology. 3d annual report, 1881-82, by J. W. Powell, 1884. 



The Bureau. 

 Another copy of same. Smithsonian Institute. 



Bureau of Statistics. Quarterly reports, June 30, 1885-June 30, 1886. 



Treasury Department. 



Burnham, S. M. Precious Stones in Nature, Art, and Literature. Svo. 



Boston, 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Bush, Katherine J. List of Deep-water Mollusca dredged by the U. S. 



Fish Commission Steamer Fish Hawk in 1880, 1881 and 1882, with 



their range in depth. Svo. Washington, 1885. The Author. 



California. Geol. survey of Cal., J. D. Whitney, State Geol. The Yose- 



m.te Gu'.de-book. l'2mo. 1874. In Exchange. 



California State Mining Bureau. Henry G. Hanks, State Mineralogist. 



Fifth annual report. May 15, 1885. The Author. 



Call, R. Ellsworth. On certain recent, quaternary and new fresh-water 



mollusca. Feb. 26, 1886. 



Fifth contribution to a knowledge of the fresh-water mollusca of 



Kansas. The Author. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



Call, E. Ellsworth and Harry A. Pilsbry. On Pyrgulopsis, a new genus 



of Rissoid mollusks, with descriptions of two new forms. 8vo, T. 



Feb. 26, 1886. The Authors. 



Cambridge, Rev. O. P. Scientific results of the second Yarkand Mission. 



Araneidea. Calcutta, 1885. The East India Government. 



CambridgHi University Library. Report of the Library syndicate, June 2, 



1886. 4to, T. The Library. 



Canada. Department of Agriculture. Report of the Entomologist (James 



Fletcher), 1885. 

 Esquisse Geologique du Canada pour servir a 1' intelligence de la carte 



geologique et de la collection des mineraux economiques envoyees a 



I'Exposition Universelle de Paris, 1855. Par W. E. Logan et T. 



Sterry Hunt. 13mo. Paris, 1855. Geo. Vaux. 



Geological and Natural History Survey. Alfred R. C. Selwyn, Di- 

 rector. Summary report of operations to 31st Dec, 1885. Ottawa, 



1886. 

 Colonial and Indian exhibition. London, 1886. Descriptive catalogue 



of a collection of the economic minerals of Canada, by the Geological 



Corps, Alfred R. C. Selwyn, Director. 8vo, T. London, 1886. 



The Survey. 

 Carpenter, P. H. Review of de Loriol and "Wachsmuth and Springer on 



Crinoids. 8vo, T, March, 1886. The Author. 



Carus, J. V. Prodromus Faunae JVIediterranese. Part II, Arthopoda. 



Stuttgart, 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Carvalho, Maximiano Marques de. Terremoto no Rio de Janeiro conduc- 



tores electro-telluricos deduzidos dos Para-Raios de Franklin. 1886. 



8vo, T. The Author, 



Casey, Thos. L. New genera and species of California Coleoptera. 8vo. 



1885. The Author. 

 Castillo, Antonio del y Mariano Barcena. Antropologia Mexicana. E. 



Hombre del Peiion. Mexico, 1885. The Authors. 



Challenger, Report of the scientific results of the Exploring Voyage of. 



Zoology. Vols. XII-XVI. ^ H. B. M. Government. 



Chaper, M. Description de quelques especes nouvelles de coquilles vivantes 



provenant de 1 Afrique Australe et d'Assinie. 8vo, T. 1885. 

 Note sur une Peg mat.te diamautif ore de I'Hindoustan. 8vo, T. Feb. 



15, 1886. 

 Constatation de I'existence du terrain glaciaire dans 1' Afrique equator- 



iale, 8vo, T. 11th Jan., 1886. The Author. 



Chapman, S. H. and H. See Dohrmann, A. 

 Chevreul, M., Seance du Centenaire de. Par M. Louis. 8vo, T. Passy. 



1886. The Author. 

 Chief of Engineers, United States Army. Annual report of the, 1885. 



Pts. I-IV. Engineer Department, U. S. A. 



Chief of Ordnance. Annual report, for the year ended June 30, 1885. 8vo. 



Washiniiton, 1885. War Department. 



Chief Signal Officer of the Army. Annual reports for the years 1884 and 



1885. 8vo. Washington, 1884-85. War Department. 



City Hospital, Boston. 21st report of the trustees of. 8vo. 1884-85. 



The Trustees. 

 Claus, C. Lehrbuch der Zoologie. 8vo. 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Cohn, F. Kryptogamen-Flora von Schlesien. 8vo, 3er, Bd., 2e Lief. 



Beitrage zur Biologie der Pflanzen. IV, 3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Colin, G. Traite de physiologic comparee des animaux. 8vo, 3me ed.. 



Tome I. Paris, 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Colquhoun, Archibald R. Across Chryse, being the narrative of a journey 



of exploration through the South China Border Lands from Canton 



toMandalay. 3 vols., 8vo. New York, 1883. I. V. Williamson Fund. 




400 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



Columbia College. School of Library Economy. Circular of Information. 

 8vo, T, 1886-7. Columbia College. 



Second and third annual reports of the Chief Librarian, June 30, 1886. 

 New York, 1886. The Author. 



Commissioner of Education. Report for the years 1883 84. 8vo. "Wash- 

 ington, 1885. Department of the Interior. 

 Commissioner of Labor. First annual report, March, 1886. Industrial 

 Depressions. 8vo. Washingtim, 1886. Department of the Interior. 

 Conn, H. W. Evolution of To-day. 8vo. New York, 1886. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Cope, Edw. D. Origin of Man and the other vertebrates, and the energy 

 of life evolution. 8vo, T. 1885. 

 Repoit on the Coal Deposits near Zacualtipan in the State of Hidalgo, 



Mexico. 8vo, T. 1885. 

 On the structure of the brain and auditory apparatus of a Theromor- 



phous reptile of tlie Permian epoch. 8vo, T. 1885. 

 On the Intercentrum of the terrestrial Vertebrata. 8vo, T. 1886. 

 The Vertebrata of the Swift Current Cieek region of the Cypress 

 Hills. 8vo, T. 1885. The Author. 



Cornell University. Proceedings at the unveiling of the tablet to the memoi y 

 of Louis Agassiz, and at the formal opening of the Sibley College 

 extension and the unveiling of the portrait of the Hun. Hiram 

 Sibley. June 17, 1885. 8vo, T. Ithaca, 1885. Prof. J. S. Newberry. 

 Coulter, John M. Manual of the Botany ( Phsenogamia and Pteridophyta) 

 of the Rocky Mountain Region, from Mexico to tlie British Bound- 

 ary. 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Revision of the North American Hypericacese. 1886. The Author. 

 Cowan, Frank. Australia : a charcoal sketch. 8vo. Greensburi;, Pa., 

 1886. Tlie Author. 

 Cross, Whitman and L. G. Eakius. On Ptilolite, a new mineral. Aug., 

 1886. 8vo, T. The Author. 

 Dahl, Fried. Beitriige zur kenntnisse des Banes tind der Funktionen der 

 Insektenbeine. Inaug.-Dissert. philos. Fakultiit. 8vo, T. 1884. 



University of Kiel. 



Dall, Wm . H. On Turbinella pyrum Lamarck, and its dentition. 8vo, T. 



List of the marine mollusca comprising the quaternary fossils and 



recent forms from American localities between Cape Hatteras and 



CapeRoque, including the Bermudas (Bui. U. S. Nat. Mus., 24). 8vo. 



Report on Behring Island Mollusca collected by Mr. Nicholas Greb- 



nitzki. 1886. 8vo, T. The Author. 



Dames, W. and E. Kayser. Paleontologische Abhandlungen. HI, 1-3. 



I. V. Williamson Fmid. 



Dampier, Wm. The Voyage of the Roe-Buck. Dampiers Voyages, Vol. 



III. A Voyage to Terra Australis. 8vo (no title-page). Isaac Burk. 



Dana, J. D. On Lower Silurian fossils from a limestone of the original 



Taconic of Emmons. 8vo, T. 1886. The Author. 



De CandoUe, Aug. Pyr. Regni Vegetabilis Systema Naturale. Vols. 1 



and 3. 8vo. Parisiis, 1818, 18-.I1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Deichmiiller, J. V. Ueber Urnenfunde in Uebigau bei Dresden. 8vo, T. 



. The Author. 



Delgado, J. F. N. Terrains paleozoiques du Portugal. Etudes sur les 



Bilobites et autres fossiles des Quartzites de la base du systeme silur- 



ique du Portugal. Lisbonne, 1886. The Survey. 



D'Invilliers, Edw. V. The Cornwall Iron Ore Mine, Lebanon Co., Pa. 



8vo, T. 1886. The Author. 



Derby, Orville A. On the flexibility of Itacolumite. September, 1886. 



8vo, T. 



The geology of the diamantiferous region of the Province of Parana, 



Brazil. May 16, 1879. 8vo, T. 




1886.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 401 



Peculiar modes of occurrence of gold in Brazil. 8vo. December, 



1884. 

 A contribution to the geology of the Lower Amazonas. February 21, 



1879. 8vo, T. 

 ContribuiQao para o estudo da geographia physica do Valle do Rio 



Grande. 8vo, T. 

 Relatorio apresentado ao Exm. Sr. Conselheiro Manvel Alves de 

 Araujo acerca dos estudos geologicos pratikados nos valles do Rio das 

 Vilhas e Alto S. Franciso. 1882. 4to, T. The Author. 



Dobson, George Edward. Catalogue of the Chiroptera in the collection 

 of the British Museum. 8vo. London, 1878. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Dodel-Port, Arnold. Biologische Fragmente, 8vo, T. 1885. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Doehle, P. Ein Fall von eigentiimlicher Aortenerkrankung bei einem 

 Syfilitischen. Inaug.-Dissert. medic. Facultat in Kiel. 8vo, T. 

 1885. University of Kiel. 



Dohrmann, A. Catalogue of the magnificent collection of minerals ex- 

 tremely rich in crystallized gold and silver. Catalogue by S. H. 

 and H. Chapman. December 13, 14, 15, 1886. 8vo, T. 



S. H. and H. Chapman. 



Donn, James. Hortus Cantabrigiensis. 6th Ed. Cambridge, 1811. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Eakins, L. G. On Allanite and Gadolinite. 8vo, T. 1885. The Author. 



Ecole Polytechnique, Catalogue de la Bibliotheque. 8vo. Paris, 1881. 



The School. 



Ehrenbaum, Ernst, Untersuchungen ueber die Strviktur imd Bildung der 

 Schale der in der Kieler Bucht haufig vorkommenden Muscheln. 

 Inaug.-Dissert. 8vo, T. Kiel, 1884. University of Kiel. 



Encyclopaedia Britannica. Vol. XX, 4to. 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Encyklopaedie der Naturwissenschaften. I Abth. 44-48 ; II Abth. 33-38. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Erichson, W. F. Katurgeschichte der Insecten Deutschland. le Abth., 

 Coleoptera ; 6er Bd., 4e Lief. 8vo. Wilson Fund. 



Emi, Henry. Mineralogy simplified. 12mo. 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Ernst, A. Biologische Beobachtungen an Eriodendron anfractuosum, DC. 

 8vo, T. 1885. The Author. 



Etheridge, Robert, and P. Herbert Carpenter. Catalogue of the Blas- 

 toidea in the geological department of the British Museum (Natural 

 History). 4to. London, 1886. The Tmstees. 



Everhart, B. M. Ellis, North American Fungi. Alphabetical index, 

 Centuries I-XV. The Compiler. 



Fenton, James J. Royal Society of Victoria. Fuller's calculating slide- 

 rule. 8vo, T. Dec. 28, 1885. The Society. 



Fahnestock, George W. Eflects of Carbureted Hydrogen Gas on a Col- 

 lection of Exotic Plants. 8vo, T. Philadelphia, 1858. Geo. Vaux. 



Farini, G. A. Durch die Kalahari-Wiiste Streif-und Jagdziige nach dem 

 Ngami-See in Siidafrika. 8vo'. Leipzig, 1886. 



I. V. Williamson Fimd. 



Farlow, W. G. The development of the Gymnosporangia of the United 

 States. 8vo, T. 1886. The Author. 



Filhol, H. Bibliotheque d. 1. Nat. La Vie au Fond des Mers, les Explora- 

 tions sous-marines et les Voyages dvi Travailleur et du Talisman. 

 8vo. Paris, n. d. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Fischer, P. Manual de Conchyliologie, Fasc. x. The Author. 



Fletcher, James. Report of Entomologist, Dep. of Agriculture, Canada. 

 8vo, T. 1885. 



Flower, William Henry, An Introduction to the Osteology of the Mam- 

 malia. By William Henry Flower 3d Ed,, revised with 



37 




402 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



the assistance of Hans Gadow, Ph. D., M. A, 12mo. London, 



1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Ford, S. W. and W. B. Dwight. Preliminary report upon fossils obtained 



in 1885 from the metamorphic limestones of the Taconic series of 



Emmons at Canaan, N. Y. Svo, T. 1886. J, D. Dana. 



Forel, Aug. Indian Ants of the Indian Museum, Calcutta. Svo, T. 1885. 



Especes nouvelles de Fourmis Americaines. Svo, T. 1886. 



Einige Ameisen aus Itajahy (Brasilien). Svo, T. The Author. 



Fourquignon, L. Les Champignons superieurs. Svo, T. 1886. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Frazer, Persifor. Geologorum Conventus. Mente et Malleo. The VFork of 



the International Congress of Geologists, and of its Committees. 



Svo, T. 1886. Angelo Heilprin. 



General notes on the Geology of York County, Pennsylvania. Svo, T. 



Dec. 4, 1885. 

 The application of composite photography to hand-writing and 

 especially to signatures. Svo, T. Jan. 16, 1886. The Author. 



Friede, Hermann. Zur Aetiologie der Polypen an der Conjunctiva. 

 Inaug.-Dissert. medicin. Faciiltat zu Kiel. Svo, T. 1885. 



University of Kiel. 



Fritsch, Ant. Fauna der Gaskohle und der Kalksteine der Permformation 



Bohmens., II, 2. 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Garrison, F. Lynwood. The microscopic structure of car-wheel Iron. 



Svo, T. 1886. 



Notes on the constitution of cast-iron. Svo, T. Feb. 1886. 



The Author. 



Gaudry, Albert. Materiaux pour 1' histoire des temps quaternaires. 2d 



Fasc. Paris, 1880. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Geinitz, H. B. Nachtrage zu den Funden in den Phosphat-lagem von 



Helmstedt, Buddenstedt u. a. Svo, T. The Author. 



Geinitz, H. B. Zur Dyas in Hessen. Svo, T. 1886. The Author. 



Genth. F. A. and G. vom Rath. Ueber Vanadate und Jodsilber von Lake 



Valley, Sierra County, New Mexico. Svo, T. Dr. F, A. Genth. 



Georgia. Janes' Handbook. 1876. In Exchange. 



Gibbes, Heneage. Practical Histology and Pathology. 3d Ed. 12mo. 



Philadelphia, 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Gilbert, Jos. H. Introduction to the study of the scientific principles of 



Agriculture. Svo, T. London, 1884. 



Note on some conditions of the development and the activity of 



chlorophyl. Svo, T. London, 1885. 

 Results of experiments at Rothamsted on the growth of Barley, for 

 more than thirty years in succession on the same land. 1886. Svo, T. 



The Author. 

 Gilpin, E. Feather-Alum (Halotrichite) from Glace Bay, Cape Breton. 

 Svo, T. March 9, 1885. 

 The Nova Scotia Gold Mines. Svo, T. February, 1886. 

 The Iron Ores of Pictou County, Nova Scotia. Svo, T. May, 1885. 



The Author. 



Godman, F. Ducane, and Osbert Salvin. Biologia Centrali-Americana. 



Zoology, Parts 40-50 ; Botany, 19-21. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Godwin-Austen, H. H. Land- and Fresh-water Mollusca of India. Part 



V. Svo. London, 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Goebel, K. Grundziige der systematik und speciellen Pflanzenmorphologie 



nach der vierten Auflage des Lehrbuchs der Botanik von J. Sachs, 



Svo. Leipzig, 1882. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Goeders, Christian. Zur Analogiebildung im Mittel- und Neuenglischen, 



ein Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Sprachgeschichte. Inaug.-Dessert. 



philos. Fakultat der Chr. -Alb. -Univ. zu Kiel. Svo, T. 1884. 



University of Kiel. 




188C.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



Goodale, G. L. Gray's Botanical Text-Book (6th edition), II. Physiolog- 

 ical Botany. 8vo, 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Goode, George Brown. The Fisheries and Fishery Industries of the United 

 States. Section I, text and plates, 2 vols. Washington. 4to. 1884. 



Tlie U. S. Commission of Fish and Fisheries. 



Govi Gilberto. L'Ottica di Caudio Tolomeo, da Eugenio, Ridotta in Latino 

 sovra la Traduzione Araba di un Testo Greco imperfetto, per la 

 prima volta sotto I'autorita della R. Accad, di Torino. 8vo. Torino, 

 1885. The Academy. 



Graber, Vitus. Die auszeren mechanischen Werkzeuge der Thiere. I 

 Wirbeltiere ; II Wirbellose Tiere. 1 vol. 8vo. Leipzig, 1886. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Graff, L. v. Turbellarien von Lesina. 8vo, T. The Author. 



Gray, Asa. Botanical Contributions, 1886. I, A revision of the North 

 American Ranunculi ; II, Sertum Chihu.ahuense ; III, Miscellanea. 

 8vo, T. May 4, 1886. 

 Supplements and Indexes. Synoptical Flora of North America. The 

 Gamopetalse, being a second edition of Vol. I, Part II, and Vol. II, 

 Part I, collected. 8vo, T. New York, 1886. The Author. 



Synoptical Flora of North America. The Gamopetalse, being a second 

 edition of Vol. I, Part II, and Vol. II, Part I, collected. 8vo. New 

 York, 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Gregorio, Antonio de. Fossili del Giura-Lias (Alpiniano de Greg. ) di Segan 

 e di Valpore (Cima d'Asta e Monte Grappa). 4to, T. 1885. 



The Author. 



Grosner, Karl. ITeber die Einwirkung von Natriumsethylat auf Citracon- 

 Mesacon- und Itaconsaeuresethylester. 8vo. 1885. 



University of Wurzburg. 



Gruber, August. Ueber nord-amerikanische Papilioniden- und Nymphali- 

 deu-Raupen. 8vo, T. Dr. J. Stockton-Hough. 



Gruber, Wenzel. Beobachtungen aus der menschlichen und vergleichenden 

 Anatomic. H. 6 und 7. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Giinther, Siegmund. Lehrbuch der Geophysik und physikalischen Geo- 

 graphic, I, II. 8vo. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Guntz, Max. Untersuchungen iiber die anatomische Structur der Grami- 

 neenblatter. 8vo. Leipzig, 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Haeckel, E. Gesammelte populare Vortrage aus dem Gebiete der Ent- 

 wickelungslehre. 2e Heft. 8vo. Bonn, 1879. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Hager, Albert D. Report on the Geology of Vermont. 2 vols. 8vo. Clare- 

 mont, 1861. In Exchange. 



Hale, Horatio. The Origin of Languages and the Antiquity of Speaking 

 Man. 8vo, T. Cambridge, 1886. The Author. 



Hampden, John. Letter to Professor Huxley. 8vo, T. 1886. 



The Author. 



Hansen, Jorgen A. Ein Beitrag zur Persistenz des Ductus omphaloenteri- 

 cus. Inaug.-Dissert. medicin. Facultiit zu Kiel. 8vo, T. 1885. 



University of Kiel. 



Hartlaub, G. and A. Dubois. Description de trois nouvelles especes 

 d'oiseaux rapportees des environs du Lac Tanganyka. Suivie de la 

 liste des Oiseaux recueillis par M. le Capitaine Em. Storms dans la 

 Regione du Lac Tanganyka (1882-84). 8vo, T. The Authors. 



Harvey, F. L. Photograph of doubleheaded snake. Mr. Harvey. 



Hawes, G. W. Catalogue of mineral localities in New Hampshire. 8vo, T. 



The greenstones of New Hampshire and their organic remains. 8vo, 



T. Prof. C. H. Hitchcock. 



Hector, James. Indian and Colonial Exhibition, London, 1886. Catalogue 

 of geological exhibits. 8vo, T. 

 Handbook of New Zealand. 4th Ed. 8vo. 1886. The Author. 




404 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



Heesch, Gustav. Ueber Sprache und Versbau des halbsiichsischen Ge- 

 diclits. "Debate of the body and the soul." (Miitzner's Sprach- 

 probenl, 92ff.). Inaug. -Dissert. Univ. Kiel. 8vo, T. 1884. 



University of Kiel. 

 Heim, Albert. Handbucb der Gletscherkunde. 8vo. 1885. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Helland, Amund. Lakis kratere og Lavastromme. 4to, T. Christiana, 



1886. University of Christiana. 



Helmholtz, H. von. Handbuch der physiologischen Optik. 2e Aufl., Lief. 



1-3. 8vo. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Hernandez, Franc. Francisci Hemandi medici atque historici Philippi II. 



Hisp, et Indiar. Regis, et totuis novi orbis Archiatri, Opera, cum 



edita, tum inedita, ad autograph! fidem et integritatem expressa, 



impensa et jussu regio. 3 vols. 4to. Matriti, 1790. Thos. Meehan. 



Hennessy, Henry. On the comparative temperature of the northern and 



southern hemispheres of the earth. Nov., 1885. 8vo, T. 



On the winters of Great Britain and Ireland, as influenced by the 



Gulf stream. Nov., 1885. 8vo, T. 

 On the physical structure of the earth. Sept., 1886. 8vo, T. 

 On the geometrical construction of the cell of the honey bee, 1886. 



8vo, T. 

 Note on the annual precession calculated on the hypothesis of the 

 earth's solidity. Oct., 1886. 8vo, T. The Author. 



Herting, Adolf. Der Versbau Etienne Jodelle's Abhand. phil. Fakultat 

 Chr, Alb. Univ. zu Kiel. 8vo, T. 1884. The University of Kiel. 

 Heude, R. P. Conchyliologie fluviatile de la Province de Nanking et de 

 la Chine Centrale, 7-10. Fasc. 4to. Paris. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hicks, Henry and W. Davies. Results of recent researches in some bone- 

 caves in North Wales (Ffynnon Beuno and Cae Gwyn). With a 

 note on the animal remains. 8vo, T. Feb., 1886. The Authors. 

 Hinde, Geo. Jennings. On beds of sponge remains in the Lower and Upper 

 Greensand of the south of England. 1885. 4to, T. 

 Hystricrinus, Hinde, versus Arthroacantha, Williams. 8vo, T. 1886. 



The Author. 

 His, Wilhelm. Unsere Korperform und das physiologische Problem ihrer 

 Entstehung. 8vo, T. Leipzig, 1875. 

 Untersuchungen liber die erste Anlage des Wirbelthierleibes. Die 

 eiste Entwickelung des Hiinchens im Ei. 8vo. Leipzig, 1868. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hitchcock, C. H, The geology of Portland. 8vo, T. 1873. 



Existence of glacial action upon the summit of Mt. Washington. 8vo. 



T. 1875. 

 On Helderberg rocks in New Hampshire. 8vo, T. 

 The lithology of New Hampshire. Preliminary catalogue of 250 typi- 

 cal specimens. 8vo, T. 

 Norian rocks in New Hampshire. 8vo, T. 1872. 

 Classification of the rocks of New Hampshire. 8vo, T. 1873. 

 Geological History of Winnipiseogee Lake. 8vo, T. 1873. 

 Note upon the Cretaceous strata of Long Island. 8vo, T. 1873. 

 Recent geological discoveries among the White Mountains. 8vo, T. 

 The distribution of the marine plants of North America a proof of 



organic submergence in the Champlaiu period. 8vo, T. 

 Description of a new reptilian bird from the Trias of Massachusetts. 



8vo, T. 1866. 

 Petroleum in North America. 8vo, T. 1867. 

 The relations of geology to theology. 8vo, T. 1867. 

 The religion of geology. 8vo, T. 



Dr. Hitchcock and Dr. Deane. Who first scientifically investigated and 

 described the fossil footmarks of the Connecticut Valley '? 8vo, T. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 405 



The Albert coal, or Albertite of New Brunswick. 8vo, T, 



The Visitors' Guide to Amherst College. 8vo, T. 1862. 



Review of Lyell's Geological evidences of the antiquity of man. 8vo, 



T. 1863. 

 The elevation of mountains. 8vo, T. 1870. 

 The earlier forms of life. 8vo, T. 



The world before the introduction of life. 8vo, T. 1874. 

 Report on the Ammonoosic gold fields. 8vo, T. 1879. 

 First and second annual reports upon the geology and mineralogy of 

 the State of New Hampshire, 1867, 1870. Report during the year 

 1870 (imperfect), 1871, 1872. 8vo, T. 

 The geology of New Hampshire, Vol. HI, 1878, with folio Atlas. 



8vo, T. 

 Lenticular hills of glacial drift. 8vo, T. 1876. 

 Geological explorations in New Hampshire. 8vo, T. 1874. 

 The geology of the Ammonoosic mining districts. 8v6,*T. 1878. 

 The geology of northern New England, Maine, 1885 ; New Hampshire, 



1874 ; Vermont, 1872. 8vo, T. 1882. 

 The early history of the North American Continent. 8vo, T. 1883. 

 Description of geological sections crossing New Hampshire and Ver- 

 mont. 8vo, T. 1884. 

 Geological sections across New Hampshire and Vermont. 8vo, T. 



1884. 

 Geology of the White Mountains. 8vo, T. 

 Physical history of New Hampshire. 8vo, T. 1877. 

 The glacial flood of the Connecticut River Valley. 8vo, T. 1882. 

 The geological position of the Philadelphia gneisses. 8vo, T. 



The Author. 



Hitchcock, C. H., and J. H. Huntington. Geology of the northwestern 



part of Maine. 8vo, T. 1873. Prof. C. H. Hitchcock. 



Hoemes, R., und M. Auinger. Die Gasteropoden der Meeres-Ablagerungen 



der ersten und zweiten miocauen Mediterran-Stuife in der Oster- 



reichisch-Ungarischen Monarchic. 8vo, 1-3. 1879-81. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hugounenq, L. Les Alcaloides d'origine animale. 8vo. Paris, 1886. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hoofe, Aug. Lautuntersuchungen zu Osbem Bokenam's Legenden. 

 Inaug.-Dissert, phil. Facult. der Univ. zu Kiel. 8vo, T. 1885. 



University of Kiel. 

 Hooker, J. D. The Flora of British India. Part XIII. 8vo. London, 

 1886. E. Indian Government. 



Homaday, Wm. T. Two years in the Jungle. 8vo. New York, 1886. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Hough, Franklin B. Historical sketch of the Universities and Colleges of 



the United States. 8vo, T, 1883. Department of the Interior. 



Hoy, P. R. How and by whom were the copper implements made ? Who 



built the mounds'? 8vo, T. Racine, 1886. The Author. 



Howes, G. B. An atlas of practical elementary biology. 4to. 1885. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hubrecht, A. A. W. Proeve eener Ontwikkelingsgeschiedenis van Linens 



obscurus Barrois 4to, T. Utrecht, 1886. The Author. 



Hudson, C. T., and P. H. Gosse. The Rotifera ; or wheel-animalcules. 

 8vo, Pts. 1-5. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Huergo, Luis A. Examen de la propuesta y projecte del Puerte del Sr. 

 D. Eduardo Madero. Discusion Franca, la and 2a Parte. Buenos 

 Aires, 1886. The Author. 



Humphrey, James Ellis. On the anatomy and development of Agarum 

 Turneri, Post, and Rupr. 8vo, T. June 16, 1886. The Author. 




406 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



Hunt, Thomas Sterry. Mineral physiolop:y and physiography. A second 

 series of chemical and geological Essays, with a general introduc- 

 tion. 8vo. Boston, 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hurlbut, Henry H. Samuel de Champlain. 8vo, T. Chicago, 1885. 



The Author. 

 Hussak, E., and E. G. Smith. The determination of rock-forming min- 

 erals. By Dr. Eugene Hussak. . . . Authorized translation from 

 the first German edition by Erastus G. Smith. . . . 8vo. New York, 

 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Huygens, Christian. Liste alphabetique de la Correspondance de Christian 

 Huygens qui sera publiee par la societe HoUandaise des Sciences a 

 Harlem (n. d.). 4to, T. The Society. 



Hyatt, Alpheus. Larval theory of the origin of cellular tissue. 8vo, T. 



The Author. 

 Imperial Russian Geographical Society. Report on the Aralo-Kaspic 

 Leveling, made in 1874. 

 W. Konner. Literature of Anthropology, Ethnology and the Sciences 



of Antiquity, 1878. 

 Expedition to the Holy Land. By Prince Ladislav-Syrotka, 1583- 



1584. 

 Kaskharia. By A. N. Kuropatkine. 1879. 

 Information of the Countries of the Upper Amu Darja River. By J. 



Minajew. 1879. 

 Investigations of the Glacial Period. By P. Kropotkine. 1876. 

 Materials for the Geology of Turkestan. By H. D. Romanowsky, 



1884. 

 Labors (Results) of the Siberian Expedition. T. I ; II ; III, 1, 2, and 



Mathematics, 1864-1878. 

 Labors (Results) of the Amu Darja Expedition, 3d, 4th and 5th Series. 

 Beobachtungen gesammelt von der meteorologischen Abtheilung der 

 wissenschaftlichen Expedition an den Amu-Darja, 1874-75. 



The Society. 



India, Geological Survey of. Memoirs, Palseontologia Indica. Ser. X, 



Vol. Ill, Pts. 7, 8 ; Vol. IV, Pt. I ; Supl. 1 ; Ser. XIII, I, 5 ; Ser. 



XIV, L 3. Records, Vol. XVIII, 4 ; XIX, 1-3. The Survey. 



Indiana. Owen's Report of a geological reconnoissance. 8vo. 1862. 



In Exchange. 



International Geographical Congress and Exhibition : Report upon the 



Third Congress, at Venice, Italy, 1881, prepared and submitted by 



Capt. Geo. M. Wheeler. 4to. Washington, 1885. War Department. 



International Polar Expeditions, Observations of the, 1882-83. Fort Rae. 



4to. London, 1886. H. B. Majesty's Government. 



Iowa. White's Report of the Geological Survey. Vols. I and II. 8vo. 



1870. In Exchange. 



Janes, Thos. P. Handbook of the State of Georgia. 8vo. Atlanta, 1876. 



In Exchange. 

 Jardine, Sir Wm. A catalogue of the valuable collection of bird-skins 



formed by. Auction list. 8vo, T. June 17, 1886. 

 Johannssen, Hermann. Der Ausdruck des Concessivverhaltnisses im Alt- 

 franzosischen. Inaug.-Dissert. philos. Fakultiit Chr. Alb. Univ. 

 zu Kiel. 8vo, T. 1884. The University. 



Jordan, Karl Dr. Die Schmetterlingsfauna, ISTordwest Deutschlands ins- 

 besondere die Lepidopterologischen Verhiiltnisse der Umgebung von 

 Gottingen. Jena, 1886. (^Spengel's Zool. Jahrb. Suppl. I). 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Jousseaume, F. Etude sur la Famille des Cyprseidse. 8vo, T. 



S. R. Roberts. 



Coquilles du Haut-Senegal. 8vo, T. 1886. The Author. 



Juhl, Christen. Beitriige zur Casuistik des primaren Carcinoms des 




1886.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 407 



Corpus viteri. Inaug. -Dissert, medizin. Fakultat zu Kiel. 8vo, T. 



1884. University of Kiel. 

 Jukes-Brown, A. .J. The students' handbook of historical geology. Svo. 



London, 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Kallsowsky, Ernst. Elemente der Lithologie. Svo. 1886. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Karsten, G. Ueber die Anlage seitlicher Organe bei den Pflanzen. Svo. 

 Leipzig, 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Keyserling, E. Die Spinnen Amerikas. Theridiidae. II H., 2er Bd. 4to. 

 Nurnberg, 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Kidston, R. Catalogue of the palaeozoic plants in the Department of 

 Geology and Paleontology, British Museum (Natural History). 8vo. 

 London, 1886. The Trustees, 



Kihlman, A. Osw. Beobachtungen ueber die periodischen Erscheinungen 

 des Pflanzenlebens in Finnland, 1883. 4to, T. Helsingfors, 1886. 



Societas pro Fauna et Flora Fennica. 



Kilbum, C. L. Notes on preparing stores for the United States Army, 

 2d Ed., 12mo. Cincinnati, 1863. The Author, 



Kirchholf, Alfred. Unser Wissen von der Erde. ler Bd., Allgemeine 

 Erdkunde. Svo. Prag, 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Kirchner, O., F. Blochmann und O, Butschli. Die mikroskopische Pflan- 

 zen und Theirwelt des Susswassers. II, 4to. Braunschweig, 1886. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Klein, E mil. Ueber das elektrische Leituugsvermogen. Svo, T. 1885. 



University of Wiirzburg. 



Klostermann, Aug. Die Gottesfrucht als Hauptstiick der Weisheit Rede 

 K. Chris.-Alb. Univ. zu Kiel. Svo, T. 1885. University of Kiel. 



Kobelt, W. Reiseerinnenmgen aus Algerien und Tunis. Svo, Frank- 

 furt a. M, Svo. 1885. Senckenberg Natural History Society. 



Konig, Gyula. A Masodrendii es ket Fiiggetlen Valtozot Tartalmazo 

 Parczialis Difierenczialegyenletek Elmelete, Svo, T, Budapest, 



1885. Royal Hungarian Academy of Sciences, 

 Kohl, F. G. Die Transpiration der Pflanzen und ihre Einwirkung auf die 



Ausbilduug pflanzlicher Gewebe. Svo. Braunschweig, 1886. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Kokscharow. Nikolai v. Materialen zur Mineralogie Russlands. VIII, Bg, 



21-27 ; IX, Bg. 1-17. 4to, I. V. Williamson Fund, 



Konner, W. Literature of Anthropology, Ethnology and the sciences of 



Antiquity. Svo, T. 1878. Imp. Russian Geographical Society, 



Kosegarten, Wilhelm, Uebei- eine kiiutsliche Gehorsverbesserung bei 



grossen Trommelfellperforationen. Abhandl. medicin, Facultat zu 



Kiel, 4to, T. 1884. University of Kiel, 



Kreichgauer, D. Zur Bestimmung von Tragheitsmomenten durch 



Schwingungsversuche. 4to, T. 1885. University of Wiirzburg, 

 Kropotkine, P, Investigations on the glacial period. Svo, T. 1876. 



Imp. Russian Geographical Society, 

 Kriimmel, Otto. Der Ozean. Eine Einluhrung in die allgemeine Meeres- 



kunde. Svo. Leipzig, 1886. I. V. Williamson Fimd. 



Krukenberg, C. Fr. W. Vergleichend-physiologische Vortriige. Grund- 



zuge einer vergleichenden Physiologie der contractilen Gewebe. Svo. 



Heidelberg, 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Kiichenmeister, F. Die Finne des Bothriocephalus und ihre Uebertragung 



auf den Menschen. Svo, T. Leipzig, 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Kunz, Geo. F, American Gems and Precious Stones, Svo. Washington, 



1883. 

 Precious Stones. 1885. The Author. 



Extracts from the notes on the Bement Collection of Minerals by Prof. 



Gerhard vom Rath. Translated by Geo. F. Kunz. Svo, T. New 



York, 1886, The Translator. 




408 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



On three Masses of Meteoric Iron from Glorieta Mountain, near 



Canoncito, Santa Fe Co., New Mexico. 8vo, T. Sept., 1885. 

 On Remarkable Copper Minerals from Arizona. 8vo, T. 1885. 

 Meteoric Iron from Jenny's Creek, Wayne Co., "W. Virginia. 8vo, T. 



Feb., 1886. 

 Native Antimony at Prince William, York Co., N. B. Oct., 1885. 



Svo, T. 

 Meteoric Iron from Jenny's Creek, Wayne Co., W. Virginia. Svo, T. 



Feb., 1886. 

 The Washington Co. Penna. Meteorite. Svo, T. 1885. 

 On Remarkable Copper Minerals from Arizona. Svo, T. Oct. 5, 1885. 



The Author. 

 Kuropatkine, A. N. Kaskharia. An historico-geographical sketch of this 

 land, its military force, industry and trade. 1879. 



Imp. Russian Geographical Society. 

 Langner, Otto. Ueber Gastrostomie. Inaug.-Dissert. medicin. Fakviltat 

 zu Kiel. Svo, T. 18S4. University of Kiel. 



Lamed, Edwin Channing. In memory of. Svo, T. Chicago, 1886. 

 Latchford, F. R. Observations of the terrestrial mollusca of Ottawa and 

 vicinity. Svo, T. Ottawa, 1886. The Author. 



Lawes, Sir J. B. On some points in the composition of soils ; with results, 

 illustrating the sources of the fertility of Manitoba prairie soil. 

 Svo, T. London, 1885. 

 Memoranda of the origin, plan and results of the field and other 

 experiments conducted on the farm and in the laboratory of Sir John 

 Bennet Lawes. June, 1885. Svo, T. 1886. 

 On the composition of the Ash of wheat-grain, and wheat-straw, 

 grown at Rothamsted, in different seasons, and by different manures. 

 Svo, T. London, 1884. 

 Report of Experiments on the growth of wheat for the second period 

 of twenty years in succession on the same land. Svo, T. London, 

 1885. The Author. 



Lawes, J. B. and J. H. Gilbert. Supplement to former paper, entitled. 

 Experimental inquiry into the composition of some of the animals 

 fed and slaughtered as human food. 1883. 

 Experiments on Ensilage, conducted at Rothamsted ; season 1884-5. 

 Svo. London, 1886. 

 Lawes, Sir J. B., J. H. Gilbert and R. Warrington. The nitrogen as 

 nitric acid, in the soils and subsoils of some of the fields of Roth- 

 amsted. Svo, T. London, 1883. 

 New determinations of Ammonia, Chlorine and Sulphuric Acid in 

 the rain-water collected at Rothamsted. Svo, T. London, 1883. 



The Authors. 

 Lawrence, Geo. N. Description of a new species of bird of the genus 

 Engyptila, with notes on two Yucatan birds. Svo, T. 1885. 

 Descriptions of new species of birds of the family Columbidse. Svo, 



T. 1885. 

 Characters of two supposed new species of birds from Yucatan. Svo, 



T. 1885. 

 List of a few species of birds new to the fauna of Gaudeloupe, West 

 Indies, with a description of new species of Ceryle. Svo, T. 



The Author. 

 Le Conte, Joseph. Sight : an exposition of the principles of monocular 

 and binocular vision. Svo, T. New York, 1881. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Leidy, Jos. Remarks on Parasites and Scorpions. Svo, T. 



An address on evolution and the pathological importance of lower 

 forms of life. 13m o, T. 1886. The Author. 




1886,] NATURAL SCIENCES OP rHILADELPHIA. 409 



Lemoine, Er. Elevage des Animaiix de Basse-Cour. 8vo, T. 



I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Lespiault, M. Rapport sur les orages de 1883 et 1884. 8vo, T. 



Society des Sciences physiques et naturelles de Bordeaux. 

 Levasseur, E. L'Europe (moius la France) geographic et statistique. 

 12mo. Paris, 1873. 

 La France (avec ses colonies) geographic et statistique. 8me Ed,, 



12mo. Paris, 1873. 

 La Terra (moins 1" Europe) geographic et statistique. 12mo. Paris, 

 n. d. 

 Levasseur, E., and Ch. Perigot. Atlas de la Geographic physique, politique 

 et economique. 8vo. Paris, 1873. Stuart Wood. 



Lewis, T. H. Effigy Mounds in Iowa. 8vo, T. 188.1. The Author. 



Light House Board. Annual report for year ended June 30, 1885. 8vo. 



Treasury Department. 

 Lindermeyer, A. Die Yogel Griechenlands. 8vo. Passau, 1860. 



Natural History Society of Passau. 

 Lonkaschewitch, Platon. Etymology of the Greek language. I, II. 

 8vo, T. Kiew, 1873. 

 Explanation of Assyrian Names. 8vo, T. Kiew, 1868. 

 Etymology of the Hebrew Language. 8vo, T. Kiew, 1883. 

 Etymology of the Latin Language. 8vo, T, Kiew, 1883. 

 Imaginary Indo-Germanic World, or the true beginning and formation 

 ot language, German, English, French and other West-European 

 languages. 8vo, T. Kiew, 1874. 

 An Inquiry into the solar large year and the calculations of the year. 



8vo, T. Kiew, 1882. 

 Explanation of the principal laws of the natural and descriptive 

 microscopical astronomy and astronomical meteorology. I, II. (In 

 Russian.) 8vo, T. Kiew, 1884-85. The Author. 



Lildors, Richard. Zur Kenntuisse der Undecolsiiure. 8vo, T. 1884. 



University of Wiirzburg. 

 Lydekker, Richard. Catalogue of the fossil mammalia in the British 

 Museum (Natural History). Part II. 8vo. London, 1885. 



The Trustees. 



McComiick, C. The Inclusions in the Granite of Craftsbury, Vt. 8vo, T. 



1886. The Author. 



MacGillivray, P. H. Royal Society of Victoria. Descriptions of new, or 



little known polyzoa. Part IX. 8vo, T. Feb. 8, 1886. The Society. 



McMurrick, J. P. A contribution to the embryology of the Prosobranch 



Gasteropods, n. d. 8vo, T. The Author. 



Macomb, M. M. Eng. Dep. U. S. A. Tables of geographic positions, 



azimuths and distances, 1883. 4to. Washington, 1885. 



The Department, 



Maes, Christian. Ein Beitrag zur Aetiologie der Myopic. Inaug. -Dissert. 



medicin. Facultiit zu Kiel. 8vo, T. 1884. University of Kiel. 



Magnussen, Lorenzo. Beitriige zur Diagnostik und Casuistik der Actino- 



mycose, Inaug.-Dissert. medicin, Facul, in Kiel. 8vo, T. 1885. 



University of Kiel, 

 Malchin, Joannes. De Choricii Gazaei veterum Grsecorum scriptorum 

 studiis. Dissert, inaug. Acad. Kiliensi. 8vo, T, 1884. 



The University of Kiel. 

 Martens, E. von. Conchologische Mittheilungen, II, 5, 6. 8vo. Wilson Fund. 

 Martini und Chemnitz. Systematisches Conchylien-Cabinet. L. 335e-339e. 



Wilson Fund. 



Massachusetts. Report on a re-examination of the Economical Geology of, 



by E. W. Hitchcock, 8vo. Boston, 1838. In Exchange. 



Report of the Commissioners of the Zoological Survey of the State. 



8vo, T. Boston, 1838. In Exchange. 




410 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



Melvill. J. Cosmo. Notes on the Subgenus Cylinder (Montfort) of Conus. 



8vo, T. London, 1886. The Author. 



Metzgar, Sismund. Pyridin, Chinolin und deren Derivate. 8vo, T. 1885. 



Ueber Paradibromchinolin. 8vo, T. 1884. University of Wvirzburg. 



Meyer, Wilhelm. Ein Beitrag zur Behandlung der Rachitis mit Phosphor. 



Inaug.-Dissert. medicin. Facultiit zu Kiel. 8vo, T, 1885. 



University of Kiel. 

 Meynert, Theodor. Psychiatry, a clinical treatise on diseases of the Fore- 

 Brain based upon a study of its structure, functions and nutrition. 

 Translated by B. Sachs, M. D. Part I. The anatomy, physiology 

 and chemistry of the brain. Bvo. New York, 1885. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Meyer, Otto. The Genealogy and Age of the species in the Southern Old- 

 Tertiary. 8vo, T. 

 Insectivoren und Oaleopithecus geologisch alte Formen. 8vo, T. 



The Author. 



Michigan. Commissioner of Mineral Statistics. Reports for 1880, 1881, 



1883, 1884. 8vo. The Author. 



Minnesota. Geological Reconnoissance of the northern, middle and other 



counties of. By Henry H. Fames. 8vo. 1866. 



J. Fletcher Williams. 

 Mississippi. Report on the Geology and Agriculture of the State of Mis- 

 sissippi, by Eugene W. Hilgard. 8vo. Jackson, 1850. In Exchange. 

 Morlet, L. Diagnoses de MoUusques terrestres et fluviatiles du Tonkin. 

 8vo, T. The Author. 



Morris, Charles. The relations of mind to matter. 8vo, T. 1885. 



The Author. 

 Morse, Edw. S. Ancient and modern methods of Arrow-release. Salem, 



1886. 8vo, T. 



Mueller, F. v. The plants of New South Wales according to the Census 



of 1885. 8vo. The Author. 



Nageli, C. v. and A. Peter. Die Hieracien Mittel-Europas, II, 1. 8vo. 



Miinchen, 1886. I, V. Williamson Fund. 



Nansen, Fridtjof. Bergens Museum. Bidrag til Myzostomemes anatomi 



og histologi, 8vo. Bergen, 1885. The Museum. 



Nasse, Dietrich. Beitra<;e zur Anatomic der Tubificiden. Inaug.-Dissert. 



8vo, T. Bonn, 1882. ^ I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Netto, Ladislau. Conference faite au Museum national en presence de 



L.L., M.M. Imperiales le 4 Nov., 1884. 8vo, T. The Author. 



Lettre a Mons. Emest Renan a propos de 1' inscription Phenicienne 



apocryphe soumise en 1872 a I'institut historique, geographique et 



ethnographique du Bresil. Rio de Janeiro, 1885. 8vo, T. 



The Author. 

 Neumann, C. Ueber die Kugelfunktionen Pn. and Qu. 8vo, T. Leipzig, 

 1886. The Author. 



Newberry, J. S. Earthquakes. 8vo, T. October, 1886. 



North America in the Ice Period. 8vo, T. New York, 1886. 

 Notes on the geology and botauy of the country bordering the North- 

 em Pacific Railroad. 8vo, T. 

 Uneducated reason in the Cicada. 8vo, T. Jan., 1886. 

 On the origin and drainage of the Basin of the Great Lakes. 8vo, T. 

 Nov. 4, 1881. The Author. 



New Hampshire. Report of the Geological Survey of the State of, show- 

 ing its progress during the year 1870. By C. H. Hitchcock. 8vo. 

 Nassau, 1871. In Exchange. 



Annual reports upon the geology and mineralogy of. 1st, 2d, 1870, 1871 

 and 1872. 8vo. Bound copy. C, H. Hitchcock. 



See Hitchcock, C. H. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHTA. 411 



New Jersey. First annual report of the Geological Survey of, for the year 



1854. 8vo. Trenton, 1855. 

 Third annual report on the Geological Survey of, for the year 1866. 



Svo. Trenton, N. J., 1867. In Exchange. 



Geology of the County of Cape May, State of New Jersey. 8vo. 



Trenton, 1857. Dr. Chas. C. Abbott. 



Geological Survey of. Annual report of the State Geologist for the 



year 1885. Svo. Trenton. 

 Geological Survey. Maps, sheets 1, 9, 13, 17. The Survey. 



New South Wales. Australian Museum, report of the Trustees for 1884, 



1885, The Trustees. 

 Department of Mines. Annual report for the year 1885. Sydney, 



1886. The Department. 

 New York Free Circulating Library. 6th annual report. 8vo, T. 1885. 



The Author. 



New York. Geological Survey of. Palseontology, V, 1 ; Lamellibranch- 



iata, I and II. 4to. Prof. James Hall. 



A geological and agricultural survey of Rensselaer Co. By Amos 



Eaton. 8vo. 

 A report of the Geological Structure of the County of Saratoga. By 



Dr. John H. Steel. Svo. Pp. 44-84. 

 State Museum of Natural History. 27th and 29th annual reports, 

 1874, 1876. lu Exchange. 



New Zealand. Colonial Museum and Geological Survey Department. 

 James Hector, Director. Manual of the New Zealand Coleoptera. 

 By Capt. Tlios. Broun. Parts III and IV. Svo. 1886. The Survey. 

 Indian and Colonial Exhibition, London, 1886. New Zealand Court, 

 New Zealand Geological Survey Department. Detailed Catalogue 

 and Guide to the Geological Exhibits. By James Hector. Svo. 

 Wellington, 1886. The Author. 



Nordenskiold, A. E. Vega-Expeditiones Vetenskapliga Jakttagelser, III. 

 Svo. Stockholm, 1883. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



North Carolina. Geological and Natural History Survey of. Part III. 

 Botany. By Rev. M. A. Curtis. Svo. Raleigh, 1867. In Exchange. 

 35th Congr. 2d Ses. Ex. Doc. No. 26. Senate. Report of the Secre- 

 tary of the Navy communicating the report of officers appointed by 

 him to make the examination of the iron, coal and timber of the 

 Deep River country, in the State of North Carolina, required by a 

 resolution of the Senate (Wilkes), 1886. Svo. In Exchange. 



Nova Scotia, Report of the Department of Mines, for the year 1885. Svo. 

 Halifax, N. S.. 1886. The Department. 



Nyman, C. F. See Roth, E. 



O.iio. Report of the Geological Survey of. Vol. V, Economic Geology. 

 Svo. Columbus, 1884. With Map. The Author (Edw. Ortou). 



Oken, Loienz. Elements of Physiophilosophy. By Lorenz Oken, M. D., 

 from the German by Alfred Tulk. Svo. London, 1847. Ray So- 

 ciety. I- V. Williamson Fund, 



Omaha Public Library, The ninth annual report, May 31, 1886. Svo, T. 



The Directors, 



Onufrowicz, Br. Experimenteller Beitrag zur Kenntniss des Ursprungs 

 des Nervus acusticus des Kaninchens, 8vo. The Author, 



Orcutt, Chas. R. Notes on the mollusks of the vicinity of San Diego, 

 Cal., and Todos Santos Bay, Lower California. Svo, Tlie Author. 



Osborn, Henry L, Development of the gill in Fasciolaria. Svo, T. 



The Author. 



Owen, David Dale. Report of a geological reconnoissance of Indiana. 

 Indianapolis, 1862. Svo. In Exchange. 



Packard, A. S. On the structure of the brain of the sessile-eyed Crustacea, 

 8v0j T. The Author. 




412 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



Paleontologie FranQaise, Ire ser., Ter. Jur. L. 79, 80, 81 ; Ter. Tert. I, f. 

 1-9 ; Ter. Cret. L. 31 et 33. 2me ser. Veget. Ter. Jur, L. 31, 33, 34. 



Wilson Fund. 



Palaontographica. XXXII, 1-4 ; XXIII. 1-7 ; XXIV, 1 ; Suppl. I, 5, 6 ; 

 III, I, 1 ; Title and Index to Vols. 13 and 19. Wilson Fund. 



Parker, G. H. On the morphology of Ravenelia glandulseformis. Sept. 

 1886. 8vo, T. The Author. 



Parrish, S. B. and W. F. Supplementary list of plants of Southern Cali- 

 fornia. 8vo, T. The Author. 



Parry, C. C. Lastarrisea, Remy, conformation of the genus, with char- 

 acter extended. Nov. 1, 1886. 8vo, T. The Author. 



Peale, A. C. Mineral waters. 8vo, T. 1885. The Author. 



Pennsylvania, Second Geological Survey of. Annual report, 1885, with 

 atlas. Grand atlas, Div. II, Part II ; Div. IV, Part I ; Div. V, Part 

 I. Reports of Progress R. R., Pt. II ; A. A., Atlas Pt. I, C. 5, Pt. 

 I, T. 3. A. A., 2d Rep., Pt. I. The Survey. 



Pennsylvania, Second Geological Survey of. Reports A. 2, 2d report of 

 progress in the Anthracite coal region. Part I ; Atlas to second 

 middle Anthracite field. A. 2, Pt. I, C. 5, T. 3 ; Grand Atlas, Div. 

 Ill, Pt. I. Annual report, 1885, with Atlas. Chas. M. Betts. 



Pennsylvania. Third annual report of tlie geological survey of the State 

 of Pennsylvania, by Henry D. Rogers, State Geologist. Read in the 

 Senate, Feb. 19, 1839. 8vo. Harrisburg. Geo. Vaux. 



Peres de la Compagne de Jesus. Memoires concemant I'histoire naturelle 

 de I'Empire Chinois. 3me Cahier. 4to. Chang-Hai, 1885. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Phillips, George. The seaports of India and Ceylon, described by Chinese 

 voyagers of the 15th century, together with an account of Chinese 

 navigation. 8vo. 1885. Adele M. Fielde. 



Phillips, John. Manual of Geology theoretical and practical. Edited by 

 Robert Etheiidge and Harry Govier Seeley. I, II. 8vo. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Plambeck, Christian. Ein Beitrag zur Statistik und Verbreitung der 

 Tuberkulose im Alter von 16-90 Jahren. Inaug.-Dissert. medicin. 

 Facultiit in Kiel. 8vo, T. 1885. University of Kiel. 



Poore, Ben. Perley. A descriptive catalogue of the Government publica- 

 tions of the United States, Sept. 5, 1774 March 4, 1881. 4to. 

 Washington, 1885. Hon. Chas. O'Neil. 



Portugal. Delgado's Etude sur les Bilobites. 1886. 4to. The Author. 



Potts, Edw. Fresh-water sponges from Mexico. 8vo, T. The Author. 



Prantl, K. Lehrbuch der Botanik fiir mittlere und hohere Lehraustalten. 

 6e Aufl. 8vo. Leipzig, 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Prestwich, Joseph. Geologv; chemical, physical and stratigraphical. Vol. 

 I. 8vo. Oxford, 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Prieto, C. F. de Landero y Raiil. Dinamica-Quimica. 8vo., T. Giiada- 

 lajara, 1886. The Author. 



Providence City Library. Catalogue, 1886. 8vo, T. The Librarian. 



Provident Life and Trust Company, mortality experience of the, 1866- 



1885. Prepared by Asa S. Wing. 8vo, T. 1886. The Company. 

 Putnam, F. W. On Jadeite ornaments from Central America. January, 



1886. 8vo, T. The Author. 

 Queen's College and University, Kingston, Can., Calendar, 1885-86. 



8vo, T. The Trustees, 



Quelet, L. Enchiridion Fungoram in Europa media et prsesertim in 



Gallia vigentium. Lutetise, 1886. 8vo. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Quenstedt, Fried. Aug. Die Ammouiten des Schwabischen Jura. H. 



8-12. Text and atlas. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Rabenhorst, Dr. L. Kryptogamen-Flora. 2e Auti., I, ler, Abth. 10-23 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHiA. 413 



Lief; 2er Abth., 21-24; II ; III, 1-8 Lief. ; IV, 1-4 Lief. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Rach, Carl. Ueber die Einwirkung von nascirender Blausiiure auf den 

 Acetbemsteinsaureeste. 8vo, T. 1885. University of Wiirzburg. 

 Ramsay, B. P. Catalogue of the Echinodermata in the Australian 

 Museum. Part I. 8vo. Sydney, 1885. The Trustees. 



Rath, G. von. Worte der Erinnerung an Professor Dr. A. von Lasaulx. 

 8vo, T. 1886. 

 Mineralogische Notizen, 1866 : 1, Einige neue Flachen am Quarz ; 2, 

 Ueber den Andesin vom Berge Arcuentu, Insel Sardinien. 8vo, T. 

 1886. 

 Vortriige und Mittheilungen. Bonn, 1886. 8vo, T. Jan. 11-Juli 7. 

 Ueber den Ausbruch des Tarawera auf Neu-Seeland. 10 Juni, 1886, 

 8vo, T. The Author. 



Mineralogische Mittheilungen, n. F. 22. Quarze aus Burke County, 

 Nord-Carolina. 8vo, T. Dr. F. A. Genth. 



Ratte, A Felix. Descriptive Catalogue (with notes) of the general collec- 

 tion of minerals in the Australian Museum. Sydney, 1885. 8vo, T. 



The Trustees. 



Ray, Lieut. P. H. Report of the International Polar Expedition to Point 



Barrow, Alaska, 1885. War Department. 



Rayet, M. Observations pluvismetriques et thermometriques faites dans 



le departement de la Gironde de Juin 1883 a Mai 1884. 8vo, T. 



The Author. 

 Reher, Heinrich. Beitrage zur Casuistick der Oesophagus-Erkraukungen. 

 Inaug. -Dissert, medicin. Facultat zu Kiel. 8vo, T. 1885. 



University of Kiel. 



Renevier, E. Resultats Scientifiques du Congres geologiques international 



de Berlin. 8vo, T. Lausanne, 1886. The Author. 



Richon, Charles et Ernest Roze. Atlas des Champignons comestibles et 



veneneux de la France et des Pays circonvoisins. le Fasc. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Richter, P. E. Verzeichniss von Forschern in Wissenschaftlicher Landes 

 vmd Volkskunde Mittel Europas. 8vo, T. Dresden, 1886. 



Geograi^hical Socieiy of Dresden. 



Riedel, Otto. Die monadologischen Bestimmungen in Kants Lehre vom 



Ding au Sich. Inaug.-Dessert. philos. Fakultiit der Chris.-Alb. 



Univer. zu Kiel. 8vo, T. 1884. The University of Kiel. 



Riley, C. V. Annual address, as President of the Entomological Society 



of Washington for the year 1884. 8vo, T. 



The Mildews of the Grape-Viue. An effectual remedy for Perono- 



spora. 8vo, T. February 6, 1886. The Author. 



Roberts, W. Wilson. Relatorio sobre o exame do Rio S. Francisco desde 



o Mar Ate a Cachoeira de Pirapora feito em 1879-1880. 1880. 



4to, T. Prof. O. A. Derby. 



Rogers, Henry Raymond. A new philosophy of the Sun. 8vo, T. 



Buffalo, 1886. The Author. 



Romanowsky, H. D. Materials for the geology of Turkestan. 4to. 1884. 



Imp. Russian Geographical Society. 



Rossmassler's Iconographie der Europaischen Land und Susswasser- 



Mollusken, n. F., II, 1-4. Wilson Fund. 



Roth, E. Additamenta ad Conspectum Florae Europsese editum a. CI. 



C. F. Nyman. Berlin, 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Roumania. Ministerulu Lucrariloru publice. Anuarulu Biuroului Geo- 



logicii. Anulu 1883-1884, No. 2. An. II, 1884, No. 1. Ed. Fran- 



caise 1883-83, Nos. 1, 2. 



Harta Geologica generala a Romaniei, sub-directuinea domnului Gr. 



Stefanescu. Judetele, Mehedintu Gorjiii, Vilcea (parte), Doljiu 



(parte). 4to. Sheets 7-9. The Survey. 




414 PEOCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



Royal College of Surgeons of England. Descriptive Catalogue of the 

 Pathological Specimens contained in the Museum of. 2d Edition, 

 iv. 8vo. 1885. The Council. 



Riiekert, J. Zur Keimblattbildung bei Selachiem. 1885. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Ruschenberger, W. S. W. Sketch of the life of Robert E. Rogers, M. D., 

 LL. D., with biographical notices of his father and brothers. 8vo. 



The Author. 



Russ, Karl. Die fremdliindischen Stubenvogel, IV, 7. 8vo. Magdeberg, 

 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Ryder, John A. Observations on the absorption of the yelk, the food, 

 feeding, and development of embryo fishes, comprising some investi- 

 gations conducted at the Central Hatchery, Armory Building, 

 Washington, D. C, in 1882. 8vo, T. 1883. 

 Embryology. Reviews from the American Naturalist, June, July, 



Aug. and Sept., 1886. 8vo, T. 

 On the value of the fin-rays and their characteristics of development 

 in the classification of the fishes, together with remarks on the 

 theory of degeneration. 1886. 8vo, T. 

 On the development of osseous fishes, including marine and fresh-water 



forms. 8vo, T. Washington, 1886. 

 An exposition of the principles of a rational system of oyster culture, 

 together with an account of a new and practical method of obtain- 

 ing oyster sprat on a scale of commercial importance. 8vo, T. 

 Washington, 1886. The Author. 



Sabrin, Celen. Science and Philosophy in Art. 8vo, T. Philadelphia, 

 1886. The Author. 



Saccardo, P. A. Sylloge Fungonmi omnium hucusque cognitorum. Voh 

 IV. Hyphomycetes. 8vo. Patavii, 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Sachs, Julius. Vorlesungen iiber Pflanzen-Physiologie. 8vo. Leipzig, 

 1882. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Saint-Lager, Dr. Histoire des Herbiers. 8vo, T. Paris, 1885. 



The Author. 



Sargent, C. S. Some additional notes upon trees and tree planting in 

 Massachusetts. 8vo, T. Boston, 1886. The Author. 



Schiiflf Ernst. Untersuchungen iiber das Integument der Lophobranchier. 

 Inaug.-Dissert. Kiel, 1886. 8vo, T. I. V. Williamson Fond. 



Schaflfranek, Dr. The Flora of Palatka and Vicinity. 8vo, T. 



The Author. 



Schmidt, Adolf. Atlas der Diatomaceen-Kunde. H, 23-26. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Schomburgh, R. South Australia. Report on the progress and condition 

 of the Botanic Garden and Government Plantations during the year 

 1885. 4to. Adelaide, 1886. The Author. 



Schottliiiider, P. Uber das salpetersaure-Goldnitrat und einige neue 

 Derivate desselben. 1884. 8vo, T. University of Wiirzburg. 



Schrader, Ludwig. Ueber Isopropylderivate des Pyridins und Reduction- 

 sproducte derselben. Inaug.-Dissert. philosoph. Facultat in Kiel. 

 8vo, T. 1884. University of Kiel. 



Schiibeler, F. C. Viridarium Norvegicum. Iste Bind. 4to. Christiania, 

 1885. University of Christiania. 



Schweizerische Geodatische Commission Das Schweizerische Dreiecknetz. 

 II. Band, Die Netzausgleichung und die Auschlufsnetze der Stern- 

 warten imd astronomisclien Punkte. Zurich, 1885. 



The Commission. 



Scudder, Newton Pratt. Bibl. of Am. Naturalists. II, The published 

 writings of Isaac Lea, L.L. D. (Bui. U. S. Nat. Mus. 23). 8vo, T. 

 Washington, 1885. Isaac Lea. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 415 



Scudder, S. H. Memoir of John Lawrence LeContc, 1825-1883. 8vo, T. 

 Washington, 1884. 

 Systematische Uebersicht der fossilen Myriopoden, Arachnoideen und 



Insekten. 8vo. Miinchen und Leipzig, 1885. 

 The cockroach of the past. 8vo, T. liondon, 1886. The Author. 



Second Yarklaud Mission. Scientific results. Araneidea, by Rev. O. P, 

 Cambridge. Memoir of Frederick Stoliczka, by V. Ball, 



East Indian Government. 

 Seebohm, Henry. A history of British Birds, Part VI. 8vo. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Seemann, Berthold. Reise um die Welt. Two volumes in one. 8vo. 



Hanover, 1853. Thos. Meehan, 



Selenka, E. Studien iiber Entwickelungsgeschichte der Thiere. 4es H. 



le Hiilfte. Das Opossum. 4to. Wiesbaden, 1886. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Semper, C. Reisen im Archipel der Philippinen. 2er Th. II, Suppl. H. 3. 



leH.;in, 7;IV, 3;V, 1. 

 Severin, Fried. Untersuchungen iiber das Mundepitbel bei Saugethieren 

 mit Bezug auf Verhomung. Regeneration und Art der Nerven- 

 endigung. Inaug.-Dissert. medic. Facultiit zu Kiel. 8vo, T, 1885. 



University of Kiel. 

 Shepherd, Francis .1. Sketch of the early history of anatomy. 8vo, T. 



1885. The Author, 

 Silliman, B., Jr. A description of the recently discovered petroleum region 



in California. 8vo, T. New York, 1865. Wm. John Potts, 



Simpson, George B. Anatomy and Physiology of Anadonta fluviatilis. 

 8vo, T. Albany, N. Y., 1884. James Hall. 



Socoloflf, A. Sur la queue du I Type de la Comete de 1858. 8vo, T. 1884, 



The Author. 



South African Museum, Cape Town. Report of Trustees, 4to. 1885. 



The Trustees, 



Sowerby, G. B. Thesaurus Conchyliorum, or figures and descriptions of 

 recent shells. Part XLIII, 1886. 



Spelsberg, Eduard. Weitere Untersuchungen iiber Alpha-Aethyliden- 

 Valerolakton. 8vo, T. 1884. University of Wurzburg. 



Stahr, J. S, Local Geology, Plant impressions in slate. 1886. News- 

 paper slip. The Author, 



Standard Natural History, Parts 53-60, I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Stelzner, Alfred. Beitrage zur Geologic und Palseontologie der Argentini- 

 schen Republik. I Geologischer Theil. 8vo. Cassel u, Berlin, 1885. 



The Author. 



Stirling, James. Royal Society of Victoria. The Cryptogamia of the Aus- 

 tralian Alps. Part I. 8vo. December 9, 1885. The Society. 



Stockton- Hough, John, M. D. The influence of sex of fetus-in-utero on 

 length of intergestation period immediately following its birth. 8vo, 

 T. New York, 1886. The Author, 



Streeter, Edwin W. Precious Stones and Gems, 4th Ed. 8vo. London, 

 1884, I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Surgeon General's Ofiice, U. S. Army, Index-Catalogue, VII, 4to. 1886, 



War Department, 



Sweden. Sveriges Geologiska Undersokning. Afhandlingar och uppsats'er. 

 (Ser. Aa. Nos. 87, 93, 95, 96. Ab, 8, with maps), Ser C. Nos, 

 67-77. The Survey. 



Syrotka, Radislav. Expedition to the Holy Land. 8vo. 1582-1584. 



Imp. Russian Geographical Society. 



Taczanowski, L, Ornithologie du Perou. Tome 3me. 8vo. Remus, 



1886. Tables, 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Taylor, Henry D'Esterre, Royal Society of Victoria. International 



statistical uniformity. 8vo, T. Dec. 12, 1885. The Society. 




4i6 PKOCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



Taylor, Thos. The crystals of butter and fat. 8vo, T. 1885. The Author. 



Teall, J. J. Harris. British Petrography, Pts. 1-8. I. V. Williamson Fund, 



Thomson, John H. The Land Mollusca of Bristol County, Mass. 8vo, T. 

 Oct., 1885. The Author. 



Thiirach, Hans. Ueber das Vorkommen mikroskopischer Zirkone und 

 Titan-Miueralien in den Gesteinen, 8vo, T. 1884. 



University of Wurzburg. 



Tillo, Alexis. Report on the Aralo-Kaspic Leveling, made in 1874, 1877. 

 8vo. Imp. Russian Geographical Society. 



Tischner, Aug. The fixed idea of astronomical theory. 8vo. 1885. 



The Author, 



Tovpnsend, Chas, H. An account of recent captures of the California Sea- 

 elephant and statistics relating to the present abundance of the 

 species. 8vo, T. 1885. The Author, 



Tracy, S. M. Catalogue of the phiBuogamous and vascular cryptogam- 

 ous Plants of Missouri. 8vo, T, Jefferson City, 1886. The Author. 



Tryon, Geo. W., Jr. Jlanual of Conchology; structural and systematic. 

 Pts. 29-32 h ; 2d ser., Pts. 5-8. The Author. 



Turkestan Russe. Romanovsky and Mouchketow's Carte Geologiqr.e, edi- 

 tion 1885. Six sheets in folio. The Geological Survey of Russia, 



Uhlworm, O., und F, H. Haenlin. Bibliotheca Botanica, H. 1. 4to. 

 Cassel, 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Ulrich, E. O. Contributions to American Palaeontology. Vol. I, 8vo. 

 1886. The Author. 



United States Civil Service Commission. 3d annual report, Jan. 16, 1885 

 Jan. 16, 1886 (3d Ed.). 8vo. Washington, 1886. The Commission. 



United States Coast and Geodetic Survey Report, fiscal year ending June, 



1884. 8vo. Treasury Department. 

 United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries, The fisheries and fishery 



hidustries of the United States By George Brown Goode, Sec- 

 tion I, text and plates, 2 vols., 4to, Washington, 1884. 

 Report for 1883. 8vo. Washington, 1885, The Commission. 



United States Department of Agriculture. Division of Entomology. In- 

 sects affecting the Orange. By H. G. Hubbard. 8vo. Washington, 



1885. The Department. 

 United States Geological Survey, J. W. Powell, Dir. Mineral Resources 



of the United States. Calendar years 1883 and 1884. Albert J. 



Williams, Jr. 8vo. Washington, 1885. 

 Monographs, Vol. IX. Whitfield's Brachiopoda and Lamellibran- 



chiata of the Raritan Clays and Greensand Marls of New Jersey. 



4to. 1885, 

 Bulletin, Nos. 7-29. 



5th annual report. Department of the Interior. 



United States, Tenth Census of. Vols, XIII, XIV, XVI, Pt. 1, XX. 4to, 



Department of the Interior. 

 United States, Joint Commission to consider the present organizations of 



the signal service, geological survey, coast and geodetic surveys, and 



the hydrographic office of the Navy Department. Testimony before 



the. 8vo. Washington, 1886. Hon. Chas. O'Neill. 



United States, War Department, Weather Maps, 1886. Jan, 6, 3 P, M., 



to Jan. 10, 11 P. M. 14 maps. The Department, 



University of Kiel. Eighty literary, medical and scientific theses, 1885-6. 



8vo. ' The University. 



University of Pennsylvania, Annual reports of the Provost and Treasurer, 



October 1, 1885. 8vo. Philadelphia, 1886. The Trustees. 



University of Wiirzburg. Twenty-six medical and chemical theses. 8vo, 



1885-6, The University, 



Velenovsky, Josef. Die Gymnospermen der bohmischen Kreideformation. 



4to. Prag, 1885. The Author. 




i886.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 41 T 



Verrill, A. E. Results of the explorations made by the steamer Albatross 

 off the northern coast of the United States in 1883. 8vo. Wash- 

 ington, 1885. The Author, 



Vines, S. H, Lectures on the physiology of plants. 8vo. Cambridge, 

 1888. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Vogdes, Anthony W. Description of a new Crustacean from the Clinton 

 Group of Georgia, with remarks upon others. 8vo, T, New York, 

 1886. The Author. 



Wachsmuth. C, and F. Springer. Revision of the Palaeocrinoidse. Pt. 

 Ill, 2d Section. 1886. Same, Pts. I ; II ; III, 1st Section and 

 Index. 8vo. The Authors. 



Wahnschafte, F. Die Susswasser-Fauna und Susswasser-Diatomen-Flora 

 im unteren Diluvium der Umgegend von Rathenow. 8vo, T. 1885. 



The Author. 



Wakker, J. H. Algemeinfe Vereeniging voor BloemboUencultuur te Haar- 

 lem. Onderzock der Ziekten van Hyacinthen en andere Bol- en 

 Knolgewassen. Verslag over het Jaar, 1884. The Society. 



Wattebled, G. Description de Mollusques inedits de I'Annam, recolte du 

 Capitaine Dorr, aux environs de Hue. 8vo, T. 1886. 



Weber, Carl Ludwig. Ueber galvanische Leitungsfahigkeit im zusani- 

 menhang mit der Veranderlichkeit der Structur. 8vo, T. 



University of Wtirzburg. 



Weiler, Julius. Die Bildungsanomalien der Nebennieren und deren path- 

 ologische Bedeutung. Inaug. -Dissert, medicin. Fakultat in Kiel. 

 8vo, T. 1885. University of Kiel. 



Weinnoldt, Ernst. Ueber Funktionen welche gewissen Difierenzengleich- 

 ungen n. Ordnung Geniige leisten. luaug.-Dissert. phil. Fakult. 

 z. Kiel. 8vo, T. 1885. University of Kiel. 



Westerlund, Carl Agardh. Fauna der paliiarctischen Region lebenden 

 Binnenconchylien. I, IV, V. 

 Fauna Europsea Molluscorum Extramarinorum prodromus. Fasc. 

 1, 2. Luudffi, 1876-78. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Wheeler, Geo. M. See International Geogi'aphical Congress and Exhibition. 



White, Chas. A. Report on the Geological Survey of the State of Iowa. 

 Vols. I and II. 8vo. 1870. In Exchange. 



Whiteaves, .J. F. Geol. and Nat. Hist. Surv. of Canada. Contributions 



to Canadian Paleontology. Vol. I, Parti. 8vo. 1885. The Author. 



The same. The Survey. 



Whitfield, Robert P. Geol. Surv. of N. .1. Brachiopoda and Lamelli- 



branchiata of the Raritan Clays and Greeusand Marls of New 



.Jersey. 4to. Geo. H. Cook. 



Monogr. U. S. Geol. Sui'v. IX. Brachiopoda and Lamellibranchiata of 



the Raritan Clays and Greensand Marls of New Jersey. 4to. 1885. 



Department of the Interior. 



Wiedersheim, R., and W. N. Parker. Elements of the comparative ana- 

 tomy of vertebrates. 8vo. London, 1886. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Williams, Alb., Jr. U. S. Geol. Surv., Mineral Resoui-ces of the United 

 States, 1883 and 1884. 8vo. Department of the Interior. 



Williams, S. G. Applied Geology. 8vo. New York, 1886. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Wisliceuus, Wilhelm. Ueber die Einwirkung von Cyankalium auf Phtalid. 

 8vo, T. 1885. University of Wiirzburg. 



Wood, Robt. W., M. D. Memorial of Edward Jarvis, M. D. 8vo, T. 

 Boston, 1885. Am. Statistical Ass. 



Woodhead, G. Sims and Arthur W. Hare. Pathological Mycology. Sec- 

 tion I, Methods. 8vo. Edinburgh, 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Wortmau, Jacob L. The Comparative anatomy of the teeth of the verte- 

 brata. 8vo. 1886. " The Author. 



28 




418 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



Wright, Carroll D. A manual of distributive co-operation. 8vo, T. 1885. 



The Author. 

 Yale College, catalogue of the officers and students. 8vo, T. 1885-86. 



The Trustees. 

 Zigno, Achille de. Flora fossilis formationis oolithicse, IT, 2-5. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Zimmermann, Dr. O. E. R. Atlas der Pflanzenkrankheiten welche durch 

 Pilze hervorgerufen werden. H. 2-4. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Zincken, C. F. Die Fortschritte der Geologic der Tertiiirkohle, Kreidec- 

 kohle, Jurakohle und Triaskohle oder Ergiinzungen zu der Physio- 

 graphic der Braunkohle. 8vo. Leipzig, 1878. The Author. 

 Zittel, Karl A, Handbuch der Palseontologie. I Abth. II Bd., 4. und 5. 

 L. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 See Palaeontographica. 

 Zoologisches Station von Neapel. Fauna und Flora des Golfes von Neapel 

 und der angienzenden Meeres-Abschnitte. XIII. Monog. 4to. 

 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Zwanziger, Georg. Ueber Sulfo-phenylamidoessigsaure und Phenylimido- 

 essigsiiure. 8vo, T. 1885. University of Wiirzburg. 



Journals and Periodicals. 



Adelaide. Royal Society. Transactions, VIII. Society. 



Albany. 'New York State Museum of Natural History. Annual Reports, 



33d-38th. Preliminary Notice of Lamel. Shells, I (from 35th Rep.). 



The Trustees. 



Alnwick. BervFickshire Naturalists' Club. Proceedings, X, 8. Society. 



Altenburg. Mittheilungen aus dem Osterlande. N. F., III. Editor. 



Amsterdam. Het Genootschap Natura Artis Magistra. Bijdragen tot de 



Dierkunde, 3, 4, 12 and 13 Afl. Society. 



K. Akademie van Wettenschappen. Verslagen en Mededeelingen, 



Afd. Letterkunde, 3 R. II D. Afd. Natuurkunde, 2 R. XX. 



Jaarboek, 1884. Verhandeliugen, D. XXIV; Afd. Letterkunde, Deel 



XVI. Processen Verbaal, Afd. Natuurkunde, 1885. Society. 



Angers. Societe d'Etudes scientifiques, 14me Annee. Society. 



Societe nationale d'Agriculture, Sciences et Arts. Memoires, XXVII. 



Society. 



Anvei's. Societe Royale de Geographie. Bulletin X, 3-6 ; XI, 1, 2. 



Memoires, III. Society. 



Auch. Societe Francjaise de Botanique. Revue de Botanique, Nos. 



41-48. Society. 



Augsburg. Naturhistorischer Verein, 28er Bericht. Society, 



Auxerre. Societe des Sciences historiques et naturelles de I'Yonne. 



Bulletin, XXXIX, 2 ; XL. Society. 



Baltimore. American Chemical Journal, VII, 4-VIII, 5. 



Johns Hopkins University. 

 American Journal of Mathematics, pure and applied. VII f, 2-IX, 1. 



Johns Hopkins University. 



Johns Hopkins University. Studies from the Biological Laboratory, 



III, 5-8. University circulars, Nos. 45-53. The University, 



Peabody Institute, 19th annual report. The Trustees. 



Barcelona. Real Academia de Ciencias Naturales y Artes. Acta, 20 Die. 



1885. Society. 



Basel. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Verhandlungen, VII, 3. Society. 



Schweizerische paliiontologische Gesellschaft. Abhandlungen XII. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Batavia. Natuurkundig Vereen in Nederlandsch Indie. Natunrkundige 



Tijdschrift voor Nederlandsch Indie, 8e Ser. VI, 3-VII, 1. Society. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 419 



Bath. Postal Microscopical Society. Journal of Microscopy and Natural 

 Science. Nos. 1-20, vols. I-Y. Society. 



Belfast. Naturalists' Field Club. Annual Report, II, 5. Society. 



Bergen. Bergens Museum. Aarsberetning, 1885. The Director. 



Berlin. Arcliiv fiir Naturgeschichte, 51er Jahrg. 2-4, C ; 52er Jahrg. II, 2. 

 Botanischer Jahresbericht (Just) X, 2 Abth., 2 H. ; XI, Abtli. 1 and 

 2 H.; 2 Abth., 1 H. I. V. AVilliamson Fund. 



Deutscher Fischerei-Verein. Haupt-Sachregister, 1886, No. 4. Mitt- 

 heihmgen, 1886, Nos. 6-9. Society. 



Deutsche geologische Gesellschaft. Zeitschrift, XXXVII, 8- 

 XXXVIII, 2. Society. 



Entomologischer Verein. Deutsche entomologische Zeitschrift, 

 XXIX, 1-XXX, 1. Society. 



Entomologischer Verein in Berlin. Berliner entomologische Zeit- 

 schrift, XXIX, 2. Society. 

 Gartenflora, XXXIV, 1-3, 5-7. Thos. Meehan. 

 Garten-Zeitung (Wittmack), IV, 1-52. Editor. 

 Gesellschaft Naturfoi'schender Freunde. Sitzungs-berichte 1885, Nos. 

 8-10 ; 1886, Nos. 2-8. Society. 

 Jahrbucher fiir wissenschaftliche Botanik (Pringsheim), XVI, 3- 

 XVII, 3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Naturae Novitates, 1885, No. 22 ; 1886, No. 22. The Publishers. 

 K. Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften. Abhandlungen, physi- 

 kalische, 1885. Anhang zur Abhandlungen, 1885. Sitzuugsber- 

 ichte, 1885, Nos. 1-52 ; 1886, Nos. 1-39. Society. 

 Der Naturforscher, XVII, 27-39 ; XVIII, 27-52. Editor. 

 Repertorium fiir Anatomic und Physiologie (Valentin), I, 1886-VIII, 

 1843, I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Mittheilungen, Nos. 1092-1101, 1103- 

 1142. ^ ' Society. 

 BesanQon. Academic des Sciences, Belles Lettres et Arts, 1884. Society. 

 Birmingham. Philosophical Society. Proceedings, IV, 2; VI, 1. Society. 

 Bonn. Archiv fiir mikroskopische Anatomic, XXV, 4-XXVIII, 4. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Naturhistorischer Verein. Verhaudlungen, XLII, XLIII. Society. 



Bordeaux. Academic nationale des Sciences, Belles-Lcttres et Arts, 



Actes, 3c Ser. XLIV, XLV. Recueil des Actes, XL VI, 1-4. Society. 



Societe Linneenne. Actes, XXXVIII, Society. 



Societe des Sciences physiques et naturelles. Memoires, 3e Ser. I ; 



II, 1, Society, 



Boston, American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Proceedings, XXI. 



1 and 2. Memoirs, XI, Pt. 3, Nos. 2-4. Society. 



Commissioners of Inland Fisheries, 20th annual report. 



The Commissioner. 

 Library notes (Dewey). I, 1, 2. The Editor. 



Society of Natural History. Memoirs, III, 12 and 13. Proceedings, 

 XXIII, pp. 193-304. 

 Braunschweig. Archiv fiir Anthropologic, XVI, 1-3, 



I, V, Williamson Fund. 

 Naturwissenschaftliche Rundschau, I, 1-47. The Editor. 



Zeitschrift fiir wissenschaftliche Mikroskopie, II, 3 III, 2. 



I. V. Williamson Fund, 

 Bremen, Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein, Abhandlungen, IX, 2, 3. 



The Society, 



Bristol, Naturalists' Society. Proceedings, V, 1. The Society, 



Brockport, The Naturalists' Companion, I, 12. The Editor, 



Brooklyn. Entomologica Americana, I, 9 II, 8. The Editor. 



Library Bulletin of new books. No. 24, Annual report, 28th. 



The Librarian, 




420 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



Brookville. Society of Natural History. I5ulletiu No. 2. The Society. 

 Briinu. K. K. Miihrisch-Schlesisclae Gesellschaft zur Befiu-derung des 

 AckerbaueSj der Natur- uud Landeskuude. Mittheihmgen, 1885, 



The Society. 



Naturforschender Verein. Verhandhingen, XXIII, 1, 2. Bericht 



der meteorologischen Commission, 1883. The Society. 



Bruxelles. Academic Royale des Sciences, des Lettres et des Beaux-Arts. 



Annuaire, 1886. Bulletin, 3e ser. X, 9 XI, 8. The Society. 



Musee Royale d'Histoire Naturelle de Belgique. Bulletin, IV, 1-3. 



The Director. 



Societe Royale de Botanique. Bulletin, XXIV; XXV, 1. The Society. 



Socicte Beige de Microscopie, Bulletin, XII, 1-10. 



Societe Entomologique de Belgique. Comptes-Reudus, ser. 3me, 



Nos. 61-68. The Society. 



Societe Beige de Geographic, 1885, No. 4 1886, No. 1. Proces-Verbaux 



Aout, 1885 Jul. 4, 1886. The Society. 



Buda-Pest. Tudomanyos Akademia. Almanach, 1885. Ertekezesek a 



mathematikai Tudomanyok Korebol, XI, 1-9 ; Termeszettudoman- 



yok Korebol, XIV, 1-8 ; Legtiineti Eszleletek, II K.; Mathematikai 



es Termeszettudomanyi Ertesito, III, 1-5. Mathematikai es Ter- 



meszettudomanyi Kozlemenyek Vonatkozolag.a hazai Viszonyokra 



XVIII, XIX. Mathematische und naturwissenschaftliche Berichte 



aus Ungarn, II. III. Osztalyanak Kiilon Kiadoanya, 1884, II. 



The Society. 

 Ungai'ischer Landes-Gartenbauverein. Gedenkenblatt, len, 1886. 



TheSociety, 



Ungarisches National-Museum. Termeszetrajzi Fiizetek, IX, 3 X, 



2. Gazette de Hongrie II, 27-32. The Director. 



Buenos Aires. Sociedad Cientifica Argentina. Auales, XX, 1 XXII, 3. 



The Society, 



Sociedad Geografica Argentina. Revista, III, 33 IV, 39. TheSociety. 



Buffalo, Society of Natural Sciences. Bulletin, V, 1 and 2. The Society. 



Caen, Academic nationale des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres, Memoires, 



1885, The Society. 

 Calcutta. Asiatic Society of Bengal. Journal LIV, Pt. 1, No. 3, Pt. 2, 



No. 3 ; LV, Pt. 2, Nos. 1 and 2. Proceedings, 1885, Nos, 6-10 ; 



1886, Nos. 1-3, 5-7, The Society. 

 Cambridge, Mass. Appalachian Mountain Club. Appalachia, IV, 3. 



The Society. 

 Harvard University. Library Bulletin, Nos, 83-35. The Librarian, 

 Museum of Comparative Zoology, Report, 1885-86. Bulletin XII, 

 2-6, Memoirs X, 2, The Director. 



Peabody Museum of American Archaeology and Ethnology, 18th and 

 19th annual reports. The Director. 



Cambridge, England. University. Studies from the Morphological La- 

 boratory I, 1, 2 ; II, 1. The University. 

 Canada. Royal Society. Proceedings and Transactions, 1885, III. 



The Society, 



Cape Town. South African Philosophical Society. Transactions III, 



1, 2. The Society. 



Cap Rouge. Le Naturaliste Canadien, XV, 2 XVI, 5. The Editor. 



Cardiff. Naturalists' Society. Report and Transactions, XVI, 



The Society, 

 Catania, Academia Gioenia di Scienze Natural!, Atti, 3e Ser., XVIII. 



The Society, 

 Cassel, Malakozoologische Blatter. N, F., Ill, VIII, 1 IX, 1, 



I, V. Williamson Fund, 

 Verein fiir Naturkunde. Festschrift fiir 50jahr, Jubil. The Society, 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 421 



Charleston. Elliott Society of Science and Ai-t. Proceedings, II, pp. 



41-80. The Society. 



Chicago. Academy of Sciences. Bulletin I, 6. The Society. 



American Antiquarian, VII, 6 VIII, 6. The Editor. 



Historical Society. Constitution and By-laws, 1885-6. The Librarian. 



Christiania. Archiv for Mathematik og Naturvidenskab, X, 3, XI, 4. 



The Editor. 

 Norwegisches Meteorologisches Institut. Jahrbuch, 1882-84. 



The Institute. 

 Nyt Magazin for Naturvidenskaberne, XXVIII, 3 ; XXX, 2. 



The Editor. 

 Videnskab-Selskab. Forhandlingar, 1885. The Society. 



Cincinnati. Society of Natural History. Journal, VII, 4-IX, 3. 



The Society. 



Copenhagen. K. D. Videnskaberues Selskab. Oversigt, 1885, No. 3 ; 



1886, Nos. 1, 2. Skrifter, 6e, R. II, 8, 9, 10 ; III, 1-3. The Society. 



Societe Royale des Antiquaries de Nord. Tillaeg, 1885. The Society. 



Botaniske Forening. Tidsskrift, XV, 1-4. Meddelelser, 1886, Nos. 



8, 9. The Society. 



Cordoba, Academia nacional de Ciencias exactas. Actas, Y, 2. Boletin, 



VIII, 2-4. The Society. 



Crawfordsville. Botanical Gazette, X, 12-XI, 11 ; Index to Vols. I-X. 



The Editor. 

 Danzig, Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Schriften, N. F., VI, 2, 



The Society. 

 Davenport. Academy of Natural Sciences. Proceedings, IV. The Society. 

 Denver. Colorado Scientific Society. Proceedings, II, 1. The Society. 

 Dijon. Academic des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres, Memoirs, 1883-84. 



The Society. 

 Dorpat. Naturforsher Gesellschaft. Sitzungsberichte, VII, 2, Archiv 

 fur die Naturkunde Liv-Ehst und Kurlands, 2e Ser., X, 2, 3. 



The Society. 

 Dresden. K. Leop. -Carol. -Deutscher Akademie der Naturforscher. 

 Nova Acta, XLVII and XLVIII. Leopoldina, H, 20, 21, 



The Society. 

 K. mineralogisch-geologisches und prsehistorisches Museum. Mitt- 

 heilungen, 6es, H. The Director. 



Naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft Isis. Sitzungsberichte und Ab- 

 handlungen, 1885 and 1886, Jan. -June. The Society. 



Verein fiir Erdkunde, Jahresbericht, XXI. The Society. 



Dublin. Royal Dublin Society. Proceedings, IV, T, 8, 9 ; V, 1. 2. Trans- 

 actions, III, 7-10. The Society. 

 Royal Geological Society of Ireland. Journal, XVI, 3; XVII, 1. 



The Society. 



Royal Irish Academy. Proceedings, Science, Ser., II, Vol. 14, Nos. 



3 and 4 ; Polite Literature and Antiquities, Ser. II, Vol. 2, No. 6 ; 



Todd Lecture Series, Vol. 2, Pt. 1. Transactions, XXVIII, 17-20. 



The Society. 

 Dunedin. Nevs^ Zealand Journal of Science, I, 1, 3-12 ; II, 1-12. 



In exchange. 



Edinburgh. Botanical Society. Transactions and Proceedings, XV, 2 ; 



XVI, 2. The Society. 



Royal Physical Society. Proceedings, 1884-85. The Society. 



Scottish Naturalist, new series, Nos. 11-13. The Editor. 



Emden. Naturforschende Gesellschaft, 70er. Jahresbericht. The Society. 



Erlangen. Biologisches Centralblatt, I-VI, 17. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Pbysikalisch-medicinische Societiit. Sitzungsberichte, H. 17. 



The Society. 




422 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



Florence. R. Accademia Petrarca di Scienze, Lettere et Arti in Arezzo. 

 Pellizzari, Archivio, 1881. Rovighi e Santini, Sulle Convulsioni 

 epilettiche, 1882. The Society. 



Florence. Biblioteca Nazionale Centrale. BoUettino, 1886, Nos. 1-21. 



The Library. 



Nuovo Giornale Botanico Italiano (Caruel), XVIIT, 1-4, The Editor. 



Societa Entomologica Italiana. BoUettino, XVII, 3, 4 ; XVIII, 1, 2 



and 3. The Society. 



Societa Italiana di Antropologia, Etnologia e Psicologia comparata. 



Archivio, XIV, 1, 2 ; XV, 1-3 ; XVI, 1. The Society. 



Folkestone. Natural History Society. 2d Series, Oct., 1884. Jan., 1S86. 



The Society. 

 France. Association Francjaise pour 1' Avancement des Sciences. Comptes- 

 Rendus, 1884. The Society. 



Frankfurt a, M. Aerztlicher Verein. Jahresbericht, XXVIII. 



The Society. 



Deutsche malakozoologische Gesellschaft. Nachrichtsblatt, 1885, Xos. 



1-12 ; 1886, 1, 2, 7-10. Jahrbiicher, XII, 4-XIII. 3. The Society. 



Frankfurter Verein fiir Geographie und Statistik. Jahresberichte, XI, 



VIII, XLIX. The Society. 



Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Abhandlungen, XIV, 



1. Bericiit, 1885. The Society. 



Frankfurt a. O. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Monatliche Mitthei- 



lungen, III, 10, 11. The Society. 



Frauenfeld. Thurganische Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Mittheilungen, 



H. 7. The Society. 



Frieburg i. B. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Berichte liber die Ver- 



handlungen, VIII, 3. The Society. 



Gand. Archives de Biologie (Van Beneden et Van Bambeke), VI, 1, 2. 



T. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Geneva. Institut National Genevois. Bulletin, XXVI. The Society. 



Recueil Zoologique Suisse (Fol.), Ill, 1-4. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Societe Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle. Memoires, XXIX, 1. 



The Society. 



Genoa. Eeale Accademia delle Scienze Mediche. Rendicouto sommario, 



1, 1885. The Society. 



Societa di Letture e Conversazioni scientifiche. Giornale, IX, 1 a, 



Sem. 1-8. The Society. 



Museo civico di Storia Natural!. Annali, I-VI, XVIII-XXII. 



The Society. 

 Giessen. Jahresbericht iiber die Fortschritte der Chemie (Fittica), 1883, 

 No. 51884, No, 3. The Editor. 



Oberhessische Gesellschaft fllr Natur- und Heilkunde. 24er Bericht. 



The Society. 



Glasgovr. Natural History Society. Proceedings, New Series, I, 2. Index, 



Vols. I-V, The Society. 



Gorlitz. Oberlausitzische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. Neues lausit- 



cisches Magazin, LXI, 2 ; LXII, 1, The Society, 



Gotha. Dr, A. Petermann's Mittheilungen aus Justus Perthes' geographi- 



scher Anstalt, XXXI, 11 XXXII, 10, Ergilnzungsheft, Nos. 80-83, 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Granville, Ohio. Denison University. Bulletin of the Scientific Labora- 

 tories, I. The University. 

 s'Gravenhage. Nederlandsche entomologische Vereeniging. Tjjdschrift 

 voor Entomologie, XXVIII, 1-4 ; XXIX, 1, 2. The Society. 

 Graz. Botanisches Institut (Leitgeb,). Mittheilungen, H, 1, 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein fiir Steiermark, Mittheilungen, 1885, 



The Society. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 423 



Verein der Aerzte in Steiermark. Mittheilungen, 1884, 1885. 



The Society. 



Zoologisches Iiistitnt. Arbeiten, I, 1, 2. I, V. Williamson Fund. 



Groningen. Naturkundig Genootschap. Verslag, 1885. The Society. 



Halifax, Nova Scotian Institute of Natural Science. Proceedings and 



Transactions, VI, 3. The Society. 



Halle a. S. Verein fur Erdkunde. Mittheilungen, 1885. The Society. 



Zeitschrift fiir Naturwissensohaften, 4e F., IV, 4 V, 3. The Editor. 



Hamburg, Geographische Gesellschaft. Mittheilungen, 1885, No. 2. 



The Society. 

 Hamilton. Hamilton Association. Journal and Proceedings, I, 2. 



The Society. 

 Haarlem. Musee Teyler. Archives, 2de Ser. II, 3. The Director. 



Societe Hollandaise des Sciences. Archives XX, 8 XXI, 1. 



The Society. 

 Heidelberg. Naturhistorisch-medicinischer Verein. Verhandlungen, n. 

 F., Ill, 5 ; Festschrift zur Feier des 500 jahr. Jubilaums. 



The Society. 

 Helsingfors. Siillskapet pro Fauna et Flora Fennica. Acta, II. Medde- 

 landen 12, 13. The Society. 



Hermannstadt. Siebenbiirgischer Verein fiir Naturwissenschaften. Ver- 

 handlungen und Mittheilungen, Jahresberichte, 1884-85. 



The Society. 

 Iowa City. State Historical Society. Iowa Historical Record, 1885, Oct. 

 1886, Oct. The Society. 



Ithaca, N. Y. Cornell University. Bulletin (Science), I, 1, 2. 



The Trustees. 

 Jena. Medicinisch-naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft. Zeitschrift XII, 

 2-4, Suppl. 1, 2. Sitzungsberichte, 1883. The Society. 



Zoologische Jahrbiicher (Sprengel), I, 1-4 ; Suppl. I. 



I, V. Williamson Fund. 

 Kansas City. The Kansas City Review of Science and Industry, IX, 5. 



the Editor. 



Kharkow. Societe des Naturalistes a I'Universite Imperiale (In Russian) 



Travaux, XVIII. . The Society. 



Kiel. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Schriften, VI, 1, 2. The Society. 



Universitiit. Verzeichniss, 1885, Nos. 1, 3 ; 1886, No. 1. Chronik, 



1884-5, 1885-6. The University, 



Klagenfurt, Landesmuseum von Karnten. Jahrbuch XVII. Bericht, 



1884, Carinthia, 1885, Nos. 9-12; 1886, Nos, 1-11. Diagramme 



der magn. u. meteor. Beobachtuugen, 1884, The Director, 



Konigsburg. Physikalisch-okonomische Gesellschaft. Schriften, XXVI. 



The Society. 

 Landshut. Botanischer Verein. Bericht, 1881 85. The Society. 



Lausanne. Societe Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles. Bulletin, Nos. 92, 93. 



The Society. 

 Leeds. Geological and Polytechnic Society of the West Riding of York- 

 shire. Proceedings, n. s., IX, 1. The Society. 

 Philosophical and Literary Society, Annual report, 1885-86, 



The Society, 



Yorkshire Naturalists' Union, Transactions, 1883, Pt. 8. The Society, 



Leipzig, Archiv fiir Anatomie und Physiologie, Anatomische Abhand- 



lungen, 1885, Nos. 5, 6 ; 1886, Nos, 1-4. Physiologische Abhand- 



lungen, 1885, Nos, 5, 6, Suppl, B. ; 1886, Nos, 1-6, Suppl, Bd, 



I, V. Williamson Fund. 

 Botanisches Institut zu Tubingen. Untersuchungen, I, 3 ; II, 1. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Botanische Jahrbiicher (Engler), VII, 1 VIII, 1. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 




424 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



Fiirstlich Jablonowski'sche Gesellschaft. Preisschriften, XXVI. ' 



The Society. 

 Jahresberichte iiber die Fortschiitte der Anatomie imd Physiologie 

 (Hofmann und Scliwalbe), XIII, 1 and 2 Abth., XIV., 1 Abth. 



I. V. Williamson Fund- 

 Journal fiir Ornithologie, XXXIII, 3 -XXXIV, 1. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Morpbologisches Jahrbucb, XI, 2-XII, 3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Naturforscheude Gesellschaft. Sitzungsberichte 1884, 1885. Society. 

 K. Siichsische Gesellschaft der Wissenschafteu. Berichte ueber die 

 Verhandlungen, 1884, No. 3. Society. 



Zeitschrift fiir Krystallographie und Mineralogie (Groth), XI, 1-XII, 

 3; Repertorium, Bd. I-X. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Zeitschrift fiir wissenschaftliche Zoologie, XLII, 4-XLIV, 2. 



I. V. William.son Fund. 



Zoologischer Anzeiger, Nos. 208-236. The Editor. 



Zoologische Station zu Neapel. Mittheilungen VI, 3 and 4. Jahres- 



bericht, 1884, Nos. 1, 3, 4 ; 188.5, No. 3. The Director. 



Leyden. Leyden Museum. Notes, VII, 1-4. The Director. 



Nederlaudsche Dierkundige Vereeniging. Tijdschrift, 2de Ser. I, 2. 



The Society. 

 Liege. Societe Royale des Sciences. Memoires, 2me Ser. XL The Society. 

 Lille. Societe Geologique du Nord. Annales XII. The Society. 



Bulletin scieutifique du Departement du Nord, VII ; VIII, 1-12. 



The Society. 



Associacao dos Engenheiros Civis Portuguezas. Revista da Obras 



publicas e Minas. Nos. 191-194. The Society. 



Liverpool. Free Public Library, Museum and Walker Art Gallery. 33d 



annual report. The Directoi", 



Geological Society. Proceedings, V, 2. The Society. 



Naturalists' Field Club. Proceedings, 1885-86. The Society. 



London. Annals and Magazine of Natural History, 5th Ser., Nos. 96-107. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Anthropological Institute. Journal, XV, 2-XVI, 2. The Society. 



Astronomical Register, Nos. 276-287. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Chemical Society. Abstract of the Proceedings, Nos. 13-27. Journal, 



Nos. 277-288 ; Suppl. to Vols. 47 and 48. Catalogue of the Library. 



The Society. 

 Curtis' Botanical Magazine, Nos. 1185-1197. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 The Earth, Nos. 1-3. The Editor. 



The Electrician, XVI, 2-XVII, 2. The Editor. 



Entomological Society. Transactions, 1885, Nos. 4 and 5 ; 1886, Nos. 

 1-3. The Society. 



Gardener's Chronicle, Nos. 621-673. The Editor. 



Geological Magazine, Nos, 258-269. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Geological Society. Quarterly Journal, Nos. 160-167. List. 



The Society. 

 Geologists' Association. Proceedings, VIII, 7-IX, 6. The Society. 

 Hardwicke's Science Gossip, Nos. 252-263. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Ibis, 5th Ser., Nos. 13-16. I. V. AVilliamson Fund. 



Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, XX, 2 ; XXI, 1. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Journal of Botany, British and Foreign, Nos. 276-287. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Journal of Conchology, V, 1-3. The Editor. 



Journal of Physiology (Foster), VI, 6-VII, 6. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Journal of Science, 3d Ser., No. 144. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Knowledge, Nos. 174-196 ; IX, 1-7 ; X, 10. The Editor. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 425 



Liuneau Society. Journal Botany, Nos. 138-150; Zoology, 109-113. 

 Transactions, 2d Ser. Zoology, II, 12-17 ; III. 3-4. List, 1885-6. 



The Society. 

 London, Edinburgh and Dublin Philosophical Magazine, 5th Ser., 

 Nos. 127-138. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Mineralogical Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Mineralogical 

 Magazine, Nos. 31 and 32. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



The Naturalist, Nos. 125-136. The Editor. 



Nature, Nos. 838-890. The Editor. 



Paleontogi-aphical Society. Publications, XXXIX. Wilson Fund. 

 Physical Society. Proceedings, VII, 3-VIII, 2. The Society, 



Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science, n. s. Nos. 100-106. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Royal Geographical Society. Proceedings, VII, 12- VIII, 11. 



The Society. 

 Royal Horticultural Society. Journal, VII, 1. The Society. 



Royal Institution of Great Britain. Proceedings, XI, 2. List, 1885. 



The Society. 

 Royal Microscopical Society, V, 6, 6 a ; VI, 1-5. The Society. 



Royal Society. Proceedings, Nos. 239-246. Philosophical Trans- 

 actions, vol. 176, Nos. 1 and 2. The Society. 

 Scientific Enquirer, I, 1-10. The Editor. 

 Society of Arts. Journal, XXXIII. The Society. 

 Society of Psychical Research. Proceedings, I, 9. The Society. 

 Statistical Society. Jubilee volume, June 22-24, 1885. The Society. 

 Tri.ibner"s Literary and Oriental Literary Record. Nos. 217, 218, 221, 

 222, 225-228. The Publishers. 

 Zoological Record, 1884. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Zoological Society. Proceedings, 1885, IV ; 1886, I-III. Trans- 

 actions, XII, 1-3. The Society. 

 Zoologist, 3d Ser., No. 108-119. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 London, Ca. Canadian Entomologist, XVII, 11-XVIII, 9. The Editor. 

 Lucca. Reale Accademia Lucchese di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. Atti, 

 XXIV. The Society. 

 Lund. University. Acta, XXI. Katalog, 1885. The University. 

 Lyon. Academic des Sciences, Belles- Lettres et Arts. Memoires, Classe 

 des Lettres. XXIII. The Society. 

 Societe d' Agriculture, Histoire Naturelles et Arts utiles, 5me ser. 

 Annales, VI VIII. The Society, 

 Societe Linneenne. Annales, n. s., XXX, XXXI. The Society. 

 Madison. Wisconsin Academy of Sciences, Arts and Lettres. Trans- 

 actions, VI. The Society. 

 Madrid. Observatorio, Resumen de las Observaciones, 1881. 



Real Academia de la Historia. Boletin VIII, 4. The Society. 



Revista de los progressos de las ciencias exactas, fisicas y naturales, 

 XXI, 7-9 ; XXII, 1. The Society. 



Sociedad Geografica, Boletin XIX, 4-6 ; XX, 2-6 ; XXI, 1, 2. 



The Society. 



Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Jahresbericht und Abhandlungen, 



1885. The Society. 



Manchester. Biological Laboratories of the Owens College. Studies, I. 



The Trustees. 



Geological Society. Transactions XVIII, 11 XIX, 1. The Society. 



Literary and Philosophical Society. Proceedings, XXIII, XXIV. 



Memoirs, 3d ser., VIII. The Society. 



Marburg. Gesellschaft zur Beforderung der gesammten Naturwissen- 



schaften. Sitzungsberi elite, 1884, 1885. Schriften, 8vo, XII. 1. 

 Metz. Academic. Memoires, 1882-83. The Society. 



Verein fiir Erdkunde. 8er Jahresbericht. The Society. 




426 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



Mexico. Ministerio de Fomento. Boletin Nos. 134-146. The Editor. 



Museo Nacional. Anales, III, 9. The Director. 



Sociedad Mexicana de Ilistoria Natural, La Naturaleza, VII, 11-15. 



The Society. 



Sociedad cieutifica "Antonio Alzate." Reseua sobre el estableci- 



raiento, etc., 1885. Memorias I, 1. The Society. 



Middelburff. Zeeuwsch Genootschap der Wetenschappen. ArchiefVI, 1. 



Naamlijst, 1880-84. The Society. 



Middletown. Wesleyan University Museum, 14th annual report. 



The Director. 



Milan. R. Institute Lombaido di Scienze e Lettere. Rendiconti, ser. 2, 



XVIII, 17 XIX, 13. Memorie, XIV, XVI ; XIX. The Society. 



Regio Institute technico superiore. Programma 1866-67. The Society. 



Milwaukee. Public Museum, 3d annual report. The Director. 



Modena. R. Accademia di Scienze, Lettre ed Arti. Memoire, ser. 2, III. 



The Society. 

 Societa dei Naturalist!. Atti, serie 8, II, pp. 139-178; IV, pp. 89-138. 



The Society. 



Montreal. Canadian Record of Science, II, 1-4. The Editor. 



Canadian Record of Natural History and Geology. I, 2, 3. The Editor. 



Numismatic and Antiquarian Society. Canadian Antiquarian, XII, 



3. The Society. 



Moscow. Societe Imperiale des Naturalistes. Bulletin, 1884, No.4 1886, 



No. 1. Nouveaux Memoires, XV, 1-4. The Society. 



Munich. Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologic, Ethnologie und Urgeschichte, 



Beitrilge zur Anthropologie und Urgeschichte Bayerns, VII, 1, 3. 



The Society. 

 K. B. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Sitzungsberichte der math.- 

 phys. Classe, 1863, I, 1, 3, 4 ; II, 1-4. 1864, I, 3 ; II, 3. 4. 1865, I, 

 1-4. 1885, 1-4. Abhandlungen, math.-phys. Classe, XV, 3. 



The Society. 

 Miinster. AVestfiilischer Provinzial-Verein fiir Wissenschaft und Kunst. 

 Jahresbericht, XIII. The Society, 



Zcitschrift fiir Biologic, I- XXI ; XXII, 1 XXIII, 3. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Nancy. Societe des Sciences. Bulletin, ser. 3me, Fasc. 18. The Society. 

 Naples. R. Accademia delle Scienze fisiche e matematiche. Rendiconto 

 XXII XXV, 3. The Society. 



R. Istituto d' Incoraggiamento alle Scienze Naturali economiche e 

 technologiche. Atti, 2e ser. IV. The Society. 



Neubraudenburg. Verein der Freunde der Naturgeschichte in Mecklen- 

 burg, Archiv, 39er Jahrg. The Society. 

 Newcastle-upon-Tyne. Natural History Society of Northumberland, Dur- 

 ham and Newcastle-upon-Tyne. Transactions VII, 2. The Society. 

 New Haven. American Journal of Science, 3d ser, Nos, 180-191. 



The Editor. 



New York, Academy of Sciences. Annals, III, 9, 10. Transactions, V, 



1-6. The Society. 



American Bookseller, XIX, 5 ; XX, 3. The Editor. 



American Entomologist, new series, I, 1 ; III, 3, 5-11. 



Entomological Section. 

 American Geographical Society. Bulletin, 1885, Nos. 3, 3 ; 1886, 

 Nos. 1, 5-7. The Society. 



American Museum of Natural History. Annual report, 1885-86. 

 Bulletin, No. 7. The Director. 



The Auk, III, 1-4. The Editor. 



Cooperative Index to Periodicals, I, 4. The Editor. 



Forest and Stream, XXV, 18 XXVII, 18, The Editor, 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 427 



Library Journal, X, 11 XI, 11. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Literary News, VI, 11 VII, 11. ' The Editor. 



New York Medical Journal, XLII, 22 XLIV, 22. The Editor. 



Mercantile Library Association, 6oth Annual Report. The Librarian. 

 New York Microscopical Society. Journal, I, 8, 9 ; II, 3-5. 



The Society. 

 Popular Science Monthly, 1886, Jan.-Dec. The Editor. 



Science, Nos. 147-199. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



New York State Phaimaceutical Association. Proceedings, 8th An- 

 nual Meeting. The Society. 

 Torrey Botanical Club. Bulletin, XII, 9 XIII, 11. The Society. 

 Nijmegen. Nederlandsche Botanische Vereeniging. Nederlandsche 

 Kruidkundig Archief, 2e, Serie., IV, 4. The Society. 

 Niirnberg. Natudiistorische Gesellschaft. Abhandlungen, VIII. 



The Society. 



Odessa. Societe des Naturalistes de la Nouvelle Russie. Memoirs, IX, 



1-XI, 1. ^ The Society. 



Societe des Naturalistes a I'Universite Imperiale de Kharkow. Tra- 



vaux, XIX. The Society. 



Orleans. Societe d' Agriculture, Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. ]Me- 



moirs, 2me, Ser., XXV, 1, 2 ; XXVI, 1, 2. The Society. 



Ottawa. Ottawa Field-Naturalists' Club. Transactions, 1-6. The Society. 



Padova. Societa Veneto-Trentina di Scienze Naturali. Atti, IX, 2, 



BoUettino, III, 4. The Society. 



Reale Accademia di Scienze. Letter e Belle Arti. BoUettino, II, 1-6. 



The Society. 

 II Naturalista Siciliano, I, 2 II, 11 ; V, 2 VI, 2. The Editor. 



Paris. Academic des Sciences. Comptes Rendus, Vols. 99 and 100. 



The Society. 

 Annales des Mines, 7me, Serie, VII, 4 IX, .3. 



Minister of Public Works in France. 

 Annales des Sciences Geologique.s XVIII. The Editor. 



Annales des Sciences Naturelles, Zoologie et Paleontologie, 6me, Serie, 

 XIX, 1-6 ; XX, 1-6. Botanique, 7me, Ser., II, 2 -IV, 4. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Archives de Zoologie experimentale et generale, 2me Ser., IV, 1-3. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 La Bibliophile, Nos. 1-24, 1881-82 ; Nos. 1-10, 13-31, 1882-86 ; 1886, 

 , Nos. 32-35. The Editor. 



Ecole Polytechnique. Journal, 55e Cab. The Director. 



Journal de Conchyliologie, 3e Ser., XXV, 1 XXVI, 3. The Editor. 

 Journal de Micrographie, IX, 11 X, 10. The Editor. 



Museum d' Histoire Naturelle. Nouvelles Archives, 2me Ser., VII, 

 1, 2 ; VIII, 1. The Society. 



Le Naturaliste, 1885, No. 221886, No. 46. The Editor. 



Revue d' Ethnographie, IV, 4 V, 3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Revue Geographique Internationale, 8me Annel, Nos. 120-123, 126, 

 128-131. The Editor. 



Revue Scientifique, 3e Ser., V, 20 VI, 21. The Editor. 



Societe d' Acclimatation. Bulletin, 1885, No. 9-1886, No. 8-10. 



The Society. 

 Societe de Biologic. Compte Rendu des Seances, 6me Ser., 1885, No. 

 381886, No. 39. The Society. 



Societe Eutomologique de France. Annales, 5me Ser., V, 1-4. 



The Society. 



Societe Geologique de France. Bulletin, 3me Ser., XIII, 7, 8 ; XIV, 



1-5. The Society. 



Societe Malacologique de France. Bulletin, No. 2, Dec, 1885 ; No. 



1, Juillet, 1886. Annales de Malacologie, II, 3. The Society. 




428 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1886. 



Sociote Mineralogique de France. Bulletin, VIII, 8 IX, 6. 



The Society. 



Societe Nationale d' Agriculture de France. Bulletin, 1885, No. 8 



1886, No. 8. The Society. 



Societe Pliilomathique. Bulletin, 1864-1884; '85, 7me Ser., X, 1, 2. 



The Society. 

 Societe Zoologique. Bulletin, 1885, No. 41886, No. 3. The Society. 

 Passau. Naturhistorischer Verein. Bericht, 1, 2, 4, 5, 7-9, 10, 13. 

 Penzance. Royal Geological Society of Cornwall. Transactions, X, 8. 



The Society. 

 Philadelphia. Academy of Natural Sciences. Proceedings, 1885, No. 3 

 1886, No. 2. Publication Committee. 



College of Pharmacy. Alumni Association, 22d annual report. 



The Society. 

 Dental Cosmos, XXVII, 12 XXVIII, 11. The Editor. 



American Entomological Society. Transactions, XI, 1 ; XII, 2-4 : 



XIII, 1, 2 

 American Pharmaceutical Association. Proceedings, 33d annual 

 meeting. The Society. 



Engineers' Club. Proceedings V, 3 and Suppl. 4, 5. The Society. 



Franklin Institute Journal, 3d Ser., Nos. 720-731. The Society. 



Gardener's Monthly, Dec. 1885-Nov., 1886. The Editor. 



Historical Society of Pennsylvania. Pennsylvania Magazine of History 

 and Biography, IX, 4 X, 3. The Society. 



American Journal of the Medical Sciences, Jan.-Oct., 1886 and Supple- 

 ment. The Editor. 

 American Journal of Pharmacy, 4th Ser., LVII, 12 LVH, 11. 



The Editor. 

 Library Company of Philadelphia. Bulletin, Jan. and July, 1886. 



The Librarian. 

 American Naturalist, 1878-Oct., 1886, incl., except Jan., 1883. 



Stuart Wood. 

 Same, XIX, 1 XX, 11. The Editor. 



The Microscopic Bulletin, II, 6 III, 5. The Editor. 



Naturalists' Leisure Hour, Jan. -Sept., 1886. The Editor. 



Pennsylvania Forestry Association. Forest Leaves, No. 1. 



The Society. 



American Philosophical Society. Proceedings, Nos. 121-123. List of 



Members, 1886. The Society. 



Polyclinic, I, 4 ; III, 8 IV, 5. The Editor. 



Zoological Society, 14th annual report. The Society. 



Pisa. Societa Malacologica Italiana. BoUettino, XI, Foglie8-17, XII, 



1-4. > The Society. 



Societa Toscana di Scienze Naturali. Atti V, pp. 1-39, 43-55, 80-93, 



95-117. Memorie VI, 2 ; VIL The Society. 



Port of Spain. Trinidad official and commercial Register and Almanack, 



1886. The Editor. 



Providence. Random Notes on Natural History, II. The Editor. 



Quebec. Literary and Historical Society. Transactions, Sessions 1883- 



1886. The Society. 



Raleigh. Elisha Mitchell Scientific Society. Journal, 1883-84, 1884^85. 



The Society. 

 Regensburg. K. B. Botanische Gesellschaft. Flora, n. R., 43er Jahrg. 



The Society. 

 Zoologisch-mineralogischer Verein. Correspondenz Blatt, 39er Jahrg. 



The Society. 

 Richmond. The Industrial South, VI, 6, 7, 10-14, 16-23. The Editor. 



Riga. Naturforscher- Verein. Correspondenzblatt, 28er Jahrg. 



The Society. 




1886.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 429 



Rio de .Janeiro. Escola de Minas de Ouro Preta. Annaes No. 4. 



The Director. 

 Museu Nacional. Archives, I, 2-4 ; II, 1-4 ; III, 1-4 ; VI. 



The Director. 



Ubservatoire Imperial. Revista, I, 1-10. The Director. 



Rochester. Ward's Natural Science Bulletin, May 1, 1886. The Editor. 



Rome. R. Accademia dei Lincei. Atti, Serie Quarta, Rendiconti, I, 24 



II, 7. Atti, Ser. 2, I III, 1, 2. The Society. 



Archives Italiennes de Biologic (Emery et Mosso), I, 1882 ^Vll, 2. 



Catalogue des Travaux, 1884. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Biblioteca Nazionale Centrale Vittorio Emanuele. Bollettino Nos. 1-4. 



The Librarian. 

 Societa Geografica Italiana. Bollettino, Ser. II, An. XIX, 11 XX, 10. 



The Society. 

 Societa degli Spettroscopisti Italiani. Memorie XIV, 9 XV, 7. 



The Society. 

 St. Gallen. St. Gallische Naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft. Bericht, 

 1883-84. The Society. 



St. John. Natural History Society of New Brunswick. Bulletin, 5. 



The Society. 

 St. Petersburg. K. Akademie der Wissenschaften, Repertorium fiir 

 Meterologie, IX. Memoires, XXXII, 14-XXXIV, 3. Bulletin, 

 XXX, 1-3. The Society. 



Bulletin of the same, VI, Ser. IV, 2e Partie, 1. Dr. Asa Gray. 



Comite Geologique Russe. Bulletin, 1885, No. 81886, No. 6. Me- 

 moires, II, 2. The Survey. 

 Hortus Petropolitanus. Acta, IX, 2. Catalogus Syst. Biblioth., Ed. 

 Nov., 1886. The Director. 

 Physikalisches Ceutral-Observatorium. Annalen 1884, I, II. 



The Director. 



Russian Physico-Chemical Society of the University of St. Petersburg. 



Journal, XVII, 7-9 ; XVIII, 1-7. The Society. 



Societas Entomologica Rossica. Horae, XIX. The Society. 



Imp. Russkoye Geografitcheskoye Obschtchestvo. Izviestiya, XXI, 



5 XXII, 3. Zapiski, 1885. 



Salem. Essex Institute. Bulletin, XVII, 4 XVIII, 6. The Society. 



Peabody Academy of Sciences, 18th annual report. Memoirs, II. 



The Society, 



Salzburg. Deutscher und Oesterreichischer Alpenverein. Mittheilungen, 



1885, No. 1-2. The Society. 



San Francisco. California Academy of Sciences. Bulletin Nos. 4 and 5. 



The Society. 



Mercantile Library Association, 38d annual report. The Librarian. 



Semur. Societe des Sciences Historiques et Naturelles. Bulletin 2e ser., 



No. 1. The Society. 



Staunton. The Virginias, VI, 1 2. 



Stockholm. Entomologisk Tidskrift, VI, 1-4. The Editor. 



Geologiska Forening. Forhandlingar, VII, 13 VIII, 5. The Society, 



Svenska Sallskabet for Anthropologic och Geografi. Ymer, 1885, Nos. 



5-8. The Society. 



K. Vetenskaps Akademien. Ofversigt, 1885, No. 51886, No. 8. 



Bihang, X, 1, 2. 



Stuttgart. Humboldt, IV, 11 V, 11. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Kosmos, 1885, No. 51886, No. 3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, Geologic und Palseontologie, III. 



Beil. 3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Verein fiir vaterliindische Naturkunde in Wiirtemberg. Jahreshefte, 



42er Jahrg. The Society. 




430 JPROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1886. 



Switzerland. Socicte Helvetique des Sciences Naturelles, 68me session. 



The Society. 

 Sydney. Linnean Society of New Soutli Wales. Proceedings X, 3, 4. 



Proc. Linnean Hall, Oct. 31, 1885 ; 2d ser. I, t. 

 Tasmania. Royal Society. Papers, Proceedings and Reports, 1885. 



The Society. 

 Tokio. Sei i Kwai. Transactions, Supplement IV, 11 V, 10. The Society. 

 Topeka, "Washburn Laboratory of Natural History. Bulletin, I, 3-7. 



The Directoi'. 

 Toronto. Canadian Institute. Proceedings, new series, III, 3 IV, 1. 



The Society. 



Entomological Society. Annual report, 1886. The Society. 



Toulouse. Academic des Sciences, Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres. Me- 



moires, 8me ser., VII, 1, 2. 



Revue Mycologique, VII, 29-32. The Editor. 



Societe d'Historie Naturelle. Bulletin, XIX. Apr. Sept. Compte- 



rendu sommaire Jan. 6 Mai 19, 1886. The Society. 



Trenton. Natural History Society. Journal I, 1. The Society. 



Trieste. Societa Adriatica di Scienze Naturali. Bollettina IX, 1, 2. 



The Society. 

 Truro. Royal Institution of Cornwall. Journal VIII, 4 ; IX, 1. 



The Society. 



Tiibingen. Der Naturforscher, XIX, 1-26. The Editor. 



Turin. Accademia Reale delle Scienze. Atti, XX, 1-6. Memoria, serie 



2a, XXXVI. 



Musei di Zoologia ed Anatomia comparata della R. Universita. Bol- 



letino I, 1-15. The Director. 



Regio Osservatorio della Regia Universita. Bollettino, XIX. 



The Director. 

 United States. American Association for the Advancement of Science. 

 Proceedings, XXXIII, 1, 2 ; XXXIV. The Society. 



American Society of Microscopists. Proceedings, 8th annual meet- 

 ing. The Society. 

 Upsal. Observatoire de I'Universite. Bulletin Meteorologique, XVII. 



The Director. 

 Regia Societas Scientiarum. Nova Acta, XIII, 1. The Society. 



Utrecht. K. Nederlandsch Meteorologisch Institut. Jaarboek, 1885. 



The Director. 



Provincial Utrechtsch Genootschap van Kunsten en Weteuschappen. 



Verslag, 1885. Aanteekeningen 1884 and 1885. The Society. 



Valparaiso (Indiana). The Hoosier Naturalist, I, 5, 12. The Editor. 



Valparaiso (Chili). Wisseuschaftlicher Verein zu Santiago. Verhand- 



lungen, 3 H., 1886. Dr. L. Darapsky. 



Venice. L'Ateneo Veneto, Ser. IX, Vol. II, 6 -Ser. X, Vol. II. 2. 



The Editor. 

 R. Istituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. Atti, S. VI, T. II, 1 

 HI, 9. The Society. 



Notarisia, I, 1-4. The Editor, 



Vienna. K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Sitzungsberichte, mathem.- 

 naturw. Classe, LXXXIX, 3e Abth. 1-5 ; XC, ler Abth. 1-5 ; 2e 

 Abth. 1-5 ; 3e Abth. 1-5 ; XCI, le Abth. 1-4 ; 2e Abth. 1-3. Reg- 

 ister, 86-90 Bd. Denkschriften, XLVII. The Society. 

 Anthropologische Gesellschaft. Mittheilungen, XV, 1-3. The Society. 

 K. K. Geologische Reichsanstalt. Jahrbuch, XXXV, 4 ; XXXVI, 1. 

 Verhandluugen, 1885, No. 131886, No. 12. The Society. 

 Mineralogische und petrographische Mittheilungen (Tschermak). 

 Neue Folge, VII, 3-6. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 K. K. Naturhistorisches Hofmuseum. Annalen I, 1, 2. The Director. 




1886.] NATDRAL SCIENCES OE PHILADELPHIA. 431 



Ornis, I, 1 II, 1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Verein zur Verbreitung Naturwissenschaftlicher Kenntnisse. Schrif- 

 ten, XXVI. The Society. 



Wiener Illustrirte Gai-ten-Zeitung, 1885, No. 101886, No. 5. 



The Editor. 

 K. K. Zoologisch-botanisclie Gesellscbaft. Verhandlungen, XXXV, 2 ; 

 XXXVI, 1, 2. Tbe Society. 



Zoologisches Institut. Arbeiten, VI, 1 VII, 1. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Washington. American Monthly MicroscopicalJourual, VI, 12 VII, 11. 



The Editor. 

 Anthropological Society. Abstract of Transactions, III. The Society. 

 Chemical Society. Bulletin No. 1. The Society. 



National Academy of Sciences. Constitution and membership, June 

 10, 1885. Memoirs, III, 1. Proceedings, I. 2. Report of Proceed- 

 ings during the year 1882. Dr. Jos. Leidy. 

 Philosophical Society. Bulletin, VIII. The Society. 

 Smithsonian Institution. Report, 1884, I, II. The Institution. 

 United States Department of Agriculture. Division of Entomology. 

 Bulletin, No. 11. The Department. 

 United States Fish Commission. Bulletin, V, VI, 1-14. 



The Commission. 

 United States National Museum. Proceedings, VIII, 37, et seq., IX, 

 pp. 1-288. The Director. 



United States Publications Monthly Catalogue, I, 9 II, 6. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Wellington. New Zealand Institute. Transactions, XVIII. The Society. 

 Westeras. Redogorelse for Hogre Allmanna Liiroverket, 1885-86. 



Westeras Gymnasium, 



Wiesbaden. Nassauischer Verein fiir Naturkunde. Jahrbucher, XXXVIII, 



XXXIX. The Society. 



Wilmington, Wilmington Institute, 29th annual report. The Society. 



Worcester. American Antiquarian Society. Proceedings, IV, 1, 2. 



The Society, 

 Wiirzburg, Physikalisch-medicinische Gesellscbaft. Verhandlungen, n, 

 F., XIX. Sitzungsberichte, 1885. The Society. 



Unterfninkischer Kreisfischereiverein, Bericht, 1882-1885, 



The Society. 

 Zoologisch-zootomisches Institut. Arbeiten, VIII, 1. The Society. 

 Yokohama. Asiatic Society of Japan, Transactions, XIII, 3; XIV, 1. 



The Society. 



Seismological Society of Japan, IX, 1, 2. The Society. 



York. Natural History Journal, LXXII. The Editor. 



Zurich-Hottingen. Societas Entomologica. Organ, I, 1. The Society. 



Zwickau. Verein fiir Naturkunde. Jahresbericlit, 1885, The Society. 





INDEX TO GENERA, ETC. 



1886. 



PAGE. 



Acacia 354 



Acer 61, 344 



Achai'docrinus 151, 152 



Acliatinella 35 



Achillea 344 



Achradocrinus 115 



Aeolosoma 346 



Agassizocrinus. . . 116, 186-189, 210 



Allagecrinus..78, 79, 82, 87-89, 211 



Alligator 311 



Alveolites 44, 55 



Amblotherium 361 



Ambtosia 344 



Amia 62 



Amoeba 346 



Ampheristocrinus 115, 143 



Amphientomum 17 



Amphioxus 25 



Amphitherium 363 



Ancyracanthus 310 



Ancyrocrinus 79, 80 



Anisocrinus 65, 67 



Anomalocrinus. .110, 111, 117, 



128, 135, 136 



Anomia 57 



Antedon 120, 222 



Anthocrinus 66, 71, 74 



Anthracomartus , 231 



Apeltes 233, 248, 251, 252 



Apiocrinus...74, 137, 218-221, 223 



Aplysia 364 



Arachnocrinus 115, 148, 151 



Area 351 



Archseocrinus 142 



Ardea 311 



Ascaris 311 



Astarte 351 



Aster 344 



Astylocrinidae. 116,118, 186 



Atelestocrinus 115, 145, 147 



Atlas 298 



Aucbenia 12 



38 (433) 



Cfecilius .13, 14 



Csenogonia 343 



Calceocrinidae 118, 197 



Calceocrinus 116, 192, 202, 205 



Calpiocrinus 67 



Carabocrinus..ll2,115, 140-143, 149 



Cardita 57 



Carterius 229 



Cassia 314-318 



Castanea 294 



Catillocrinidse 118, 191 



Catillocrinus 89, 116, 192-196 



Catochccnum 256 



Caunopora 50, 52 



Causus 300 



Ceramocriuus 83, 107, 108 



Cerastes 300 



Ceriocrinus 115, 153, 154 177 



Chama 351 



Cbeirocrinus 197 



Circaja 344, 349 



Clathrodictyon 48-52, 56 



Cleiocrinus 65, 66, 76 




434 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[1886. 



PAGB, 



Clidochirus 65 



Clothe 300 



Coccocrinus 82-84, 207 



Codaster 215, 216, 217 



Codiacriuus 115, 152, 155 



Ca3nostroma....43, 47, 115, 153, 168 



Collurio 309 



Corbula 57 



Cornus 344 



Ci-assatella 57, 351 



Cromyocrinus 115, 153, 170-172 



Crotalocrinites 70 



Crotalocrinus. .64, 65, 66, 69, 70, 



73, 75, 77 



Cuculanus 313 



Cupressocrinus 80, 81, 89, 



100-108, 157, 221 



Cyatliocrinidse 117, 139 



Cyathocrinus. .67, 70, 71, 73, 74, 

 112, 113, 115, 140, 148-150, 



155, 157, 161 



Cyrtidocrinus 65, 68 



Cystipbyllum 46, 49 



Dactylocrinus 65, 156, 157, 162 



Dadocrinus 184 



Decadocrinus 114, 115, 156, 



158, 162 



Dendrocrinites 139, 140 



Dendrocrinus. ...115, 116, 142, 



143, 149 



Diapterus 256, 271 



Dictyostroma 54, 55, 56 



Didelphis 312 



Dimerocrinus 65, 68 



Diomedia 313 



Diphyphyllum 44, 50 



Diplocynodon 360 



Diplomorpha 35 



Disteira 300 



Dolatocrinus 80 



Dromatherium 359-363 



Echmepteryx 17 



Edriocrinus 116, 189, 210 



Elipsocus 16 



Eucrinidse 181 



Encrinus..ll6, 139, 153-155, 182-184 



Enallocrinus 64-66, 74, 76 



Encrinidse , 118 



Epactocrinus 83, 107, 108 



Equus 275 



Erisocrinus..lll, 114, 115, 127, 



153-155, 179 



Eucalia 233, 237, 238, 239, 



251, 252 

 Eucalyptocrinus 221 



PAGE. 



Eucinostomus 256, 271 



Eugeniacrinites 83 



Eunectes 300 



Eupachycrinus. .105, 114, 115, 



153, 154, 157, 158, 173 



Eupatorium 344 



Euspirocrinus 112, 143 



Eustrongylus 310 



Eusyodon 38 



Exoascus 273 



Extracriuus 218, 221 



Filaria 209,808, 310, 813 



Fissurella 851 



Fistulata 110 



Foibesiocrinus 65, 68, 69 



Fragaria 344 



Gasterocoma...83, 106, 108-110, 151 



Gasterosteidse 233 



Gasterosteus 62, 233, 239, 



242-247, 250, 252 



Geranium 344 



Gissocriims 65, 67, 115, 151 



Gerres 256, 259-272 



Gnorimocriuus ^ 69 



Gi'aculus 311 



Graphiocrinus. .90, 111, 114, 115, 



127, 153, 154. 158, 176 



Guettardicrinus 221 



Gyalecta. 343 



Hsematoxylon 352, 354 



Haplocrinus. .78-89, 94, 95, 110, 



131, 207, 211-213 



Hedruris 318 



Hermannia , 10 



Heterocrinidae 116, 127 



Heterocrinus Ill, 127-130, 148 



Heteromyenia 228, 229 



Heterostegina' 57 



Hibiscus 291, 292 



Hippopotamus 88 



Hippotlierium 11 



Hybocrinidse 116 



Heybocrinus. .110, 119, 121, 124, 



126, 133 



Hybocystites 110, 123-126 



Holocrinus , Ill, 139 



Holopus 104 



Homalocrinus 65, 67 



Homocrinus 115, 116, 122, 



143-145, 149, 158 



Hoplocrimis 120-122, 126, 133 



Hydractinia 40 



Hydreionocrimus 105, 115, 



153, 157, 158, 169 




1886.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



435 



PAGE. 



Hydrochoerus 375 



Hydronassa 311 



llydropMs 300 



Ichthyocrinus 65, 67, 75, 221 



Inadunata 78 



Indigofera 292, 293 



locrinus 127, 128, 131, 133, 134 



Isidium 343 



Isnardia 349 



JuDco 308 



Jonesia 352 



Jussieua 349 



Koniga 60 



Lageniocrinus 89, 99 



Lagenovhynchus 311 



Laurus 344 



Lecanocrinus 65, 67, 68, 125 



Lecanora 343 



LecytMocrinus 65, 115,152, 155 



Leda 58 



Lepai'ia 343 



Lepus 308 



Libonia 59 



Lilium 297, 298 



Llmaria 55 



Liriodendron 344 



Lithocrinus 69 



Ludwigia 349 



Macrostylocrinus 149 



Magnolia 59 



Mahernia 10, 11 



Manouria 313 



Marsupiocrinoidea 70, 71, 75 



Mastodon 12,37, 38 



Megatherium 12, 275, 276 



Melanite 355 



Meles 311, 312 



Mephitis 36 



Merocrinus 115, 133, 139, 140 



Mespiloerinus 65, 68 



Metacrinus 221, 222 



Meyenia 228, 229, 230 



Micrococcus 331, 332, 337 



Microconodon 359, 362 



Millericrinus 218, 219, 220 



Mimus 311 



Modiola 274 



Mojarra 256 



Monopetalonema 310 



Mugil 271 



Muhleuburgia 345 



Mulgedium 344 



PAGE. 



Mycrocrinus 116 



Myelodactylus 65 



Myocrinus 196 



Myrthillocrinus...79, 106, 109, 110 



Mysia 58 



Naja 300 



Nanocrinus 106, 108, 109, 213 



Nassa 280 



Nipterocrinus 69, 112 



Nucula 58, 351 



Nummulites 57 



Nyctiardea 311 



Ohiocrinus..lll, 127, 128, 130, 132 



Omphalaria 343 



Ouychocrinus 65, 68, 69 



Opegrapha 343 



Operculina 57 



Ophibolus 313 



Ophiocriuus 112, 148 



Orbicula 351 



Orbitoides 57 



Ornithogalum 59, 60 



Ortyx 311 



Ostrea 57 



Pachylocrinus 153, 156, 157 



Pachyocrinus 113 



Pachystroma 47, 48, 54 



Palseocrinus 112, 149 



Parisocrinus 115, 145, 156, 157 



Parmelia 343 



Parmula 229 



Partula 30-35 



Paspalum 284-290 



Pecten 57, 61, 62, 351 



Pelamys 300 



Pelias 300 



Pelicanus 311 



Peutremites . 103 



Pentacrinus 218, 221, 222 



Peralestes 360 



Perientomum 17 



Perna 351 



Phsenoschisma 215 



Phascolotherium 360 



Phialocrinus 115, 177 



Philocrinus 156 



Phimocriuus 79, 89, 93, 100, 



102, 105, 111 



Phrynosoma 312 



Physaloptera 311, 212 



Physcia 343 



Phytolacca 345 



Pisocrinus 78, 83, 89, 96, 



100, 110, 211 




436 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



[1886. 



PAGE. 



Platurus 300 



Platycrinus 81, 91, 95, 96, 149 



Polygonum ; 344 



Poteutilla 345 



Poteriocrinidse 117, 153 



Poteriocrinus..,.68, 88, 114, 115, 



151, 155-163 



Platycrinus 210 



Plotus 311 



Potereociinus 144, 145 



Pseudechis 300 



Psocus 14-17 



Pycuosaccus 65, 68 



Pygosteus 233, 234, 235, 250, 



251, 252 



Quercus 280, 281, 294 



Quiscalus 309 



Renselaeria 297 



Rhinoceros 11 



Rhizocrinus 112, 137, 221 



Rhopalocrinus ICO, 110 



Rubus 844 



Salmo 810 



Salvelinus 310 



Saraca 352, 353, 354 



ScaphiocriHus..88, 115, 153, 156-159 



Scalaria 57 



Schoriomite 355 



Scolytus 327 



Scytalocrinus...90, 114, 115, 153, 



156, 161 



Setaria 60 



Shortia 345 



Sicyocrinus 112, 115, 148 



Silene 344 



Sipedon 300 



Smaris , 271 



Smilacina , 344 



Solanum 315 



Solidago 344 



Spbserocrinus 112, 115, 150, 151 



Spinachia 234, 249, 250, 252 



Spiraea 60 



Spirifer 297 



Spongilla 228, 229, 230 



Stemmatocrinus 111, 115, 154, 



155, 179, 180, 221 

 Stenocrinus..lll, 127, 128, 131, 132 

 Steplianocrinidse 206 



FAOK. 



Stephanocrinus 83, 84, 206-217 



Stereocrinus 80 



Storthiugocrinus 79, 89,95, 96 



Streblocrinus 115 



Streptocrinus ,148 



Strix 311 



Stromatocerium 46, 48. 54 



Stromatopora 39-58 



Stromeyerite 281 



Sturnella 308 



Stylocrinus 79, 89, 90, 94 



Stylodictyon 43, 51, 52, 54, 56 



Syllysis 17 



Symbathocrinus 78, 79, 81, 83, 



87, 89, 90, 93, 94, 97-105, 155 



Synistius 256 



Synplecta 313 



Syringopora 40, 44, 50 



Taenia 62 



Taxidea 36 



Taxocrinus 65-69, 125 



Terebra 351 



Toxodon 275, 276, 277 



Trachemys, 312 



Trapa 273 



Triacrinus 83, 89, 96-100 



Tribrachiocrinus il5, 174 



Trichosomvini 310 



Triconodon 360 



Trilophodon 12 



Trochita 351 



Troostocrinus 216 



Tropidocerca 313 



Tubella 228, 229 



Tmritella 58, 351 



Ursus 36 



Vasocrinus 115, 148 



Vipera 300 



Willemite 350 



Woodocrinus 115, 163, 166 



Xiphosoma 300 



Xomolochirjis 300 



Xyleborus 327 



Zeacrinus 115, 158, 156, 157, 



161-164, 167 

 Zenaidura 310 




1886.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



437 



^ 



GENERAL INDEX. 



1886. 



,;Mc 



(* r 



Aaron, S, Frank. On some New 

 Psocidse, 13. 



Abbott, Helen C. De S. On Haema- 

 toxylin in the Bark of Saraca In- 

 dica, 352. 



Additions to Library, 395. 



Additions to Musevim, 391. 



Allen, Harrison, M. D. On a Post- 

 tympanic Ossicle in Ursus, 36. 



Arthur, J. C. History and Biology 

 of Pear Blight, 296, 322. 



Bseder, Charles. Announcement of 

 death of, 321. 



Binder, Jacob. Eeport on the Wil- 

 liam S. Vaux Collections, 377. 



Biological and Microscopical Sec- 

 tion, report of, 378. 



Botanical Section, report of, 382. 



Brinton, D. G., M. D. Report of 

 Professor of Ethnology and Ar- 

 chaeology, 386. 



Brown, Albert Dod, notice of, 364. 



Couchological Section, report of, 379. 



Corresponding Secretary, report of, 

 370. 



Cruice, Wm. R., M. D. Announce- 

 ment of death of, 300. 



Curator of the Wm. S. Vaux Col- 

 lections, report of, 377. 



Curators, report of, 373. 



Dolley, Chas. S., M. D. On the 

 Histology of Salpa (S. runcinata- 

 fusiformis), 277 ; On the Helic- 

 tites of Luray Cave, 351. 



Eckfeldt, J. W., M. D. Notes on 

 the Lichens in the Herbarium of 

 the Academy, 342. 



Eigenmanu, Carl H. A review of 

 the American Gasterosteidse, 233. 



Elections of Members and Corres- 

 pondents, 390. 



Election of Officers, etc., 390. 



Entomological Section, report of, 

 381. 



Evermann, Barton W., and Seth E. 

 Meek. A revision of the Amer- 

 ican species of the genus Gerres, 

 256. 



Fielde, Adele M. Fishing Lines 

 and Ligatures from the silk-glands 

 of Lepidopterous Larvae, 298 ; 

 Chinese Women and Spiritism, 319. 



Foote, A. E., M. D. The Opal 

 Mines of Queretaro, Mexico, 278. 



Ford, John. Distribution of Mo- 

 diola tulipa, 274. 



General Index, 437. 



Genth, F. A., Ph. D. On an Unde- 

 scribed Meteoric Iron from East 

 Tennessee, 349, 366. 



Hartman, Wm. D., M. D. New 

 species of Partula from the New 

 Hebrides and Solomon Islands, 9, 

 30. 



Harvey, F. L. On Anthracomartus 

 Trilobitus Scud., 231. 



Haseltine, Ward B. Announcement 

 of death of, 59. 



Heilprin, Angelo. On a giant Con- 

 orbis from the Oligocene Deposits 

 of Florida, 12, 227 ; Notes on the 

 Tertiary Geology and Paleontol- 

 ogy of the Southern United States, 

 12, 57 ; Vitality of MoUusca, 280 ; 

 On Miocene Fossils from Southern 

 New Jersey, 351 ; A new species 

 of Aplysia, 364 ; Report of Cura- 

 tors, 373 ; Report of Professor of 

 Invertebrate Paleontology, 384. 



Henszey, Wm. C. Summary of 

 Report of Treasurer, 387. 



Hess, Robert J., M. D. Report of 

 the Biological and Microscopical 

 Section, 378. 



Hoffman, C. J. Announcement of 

 death of, 273. 



Holman, Lillie E. Observations on 

 multiplication in Amoebae, 342, 346. 




438 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[1886. 



Horn, Geo. H., M. D. Report of 

 Corresponding Secretary, 370. 



Index to Genera, 433. 



Jenks, Wm. P. Announcement of 

 death of, 319. 



Koenig, Geo. A., Ph. D. Mineral- 

 ogical Notes ; Composition of 

 Stromeyerite, 281 ; Manganese 

 Zinc Serpentine from Franklin, N. 

 J., 350 ; On Schorlomite as a vari- 

 ety of Melanite, 352, 355. 



Lea, Isaac. Announcement of death 

 of, 358. 



Leidy, Jos., M. D. Mastodon and 

 Llama from Florida, 11 ; An Ex- 

 tinct Boar from Florida, 37; Caries 

 in the Mastodon, 36 ; On Amia 

 and its probable Taenia, 63 ; Tox- 

 odon and other Remains from Ni- 



caragua, C. A., 275 



Notice 

 308. 



of 



Nematoid Worms, 281 



Librarian, report of, 371. 



Library, additions to, 395. 



Lippincott, J. B. Announcement of 

 death of, 9. 



Lockington, W. N. The Form of 

 the Pupil in Snakes, 300. 



McCormick, Calvin, The Inclusions 

 in the Granite of Craftsbury, Vt., 

 19. 



Martin, Geo., M. D. Announcement 

 of death of, 349. 



Meehan, Tliomas. On the Morphol- 

 ogy of superimposed Stamens, 9 ; 

 Botanical Notes : Secretion of 

 Nectar in Libouia, Production of 

 Nectar in Ornithogalum coarcta- 

 tum, Seeds on Depauperite Plants, 

 Of Bracts in Ci'uciferse, The Co- 

 ronal Disk in Spirjea, 59 ; Trapa 

 bicornis, 273; Foimation of Crow's 

 Nest Branches in the Cherry-tree, 

 273 ; Note on Quercus dentata, 

 280 ; On Torsion in the Hollyhock, 

 witli some observations on Cross- 

 fertilization, 291 ; On Projection 

 of Pollen in the Flowers of Indigo- 

 fera, 292 ; On Parallelism in Dis- 

 tinct Lines of Evolution, 294 ; 

 Notes on Lilium tigrinum, 297 ; 

 On the Fertilization of Cassia 

 Marylandica, 300, 314; On the 

 Interdependence of Plants, 344 ; 

 On Petiolar Glands in some Ona- 

 gracese, 349 ; Report of Botanical 

 Section, 382. 

 Mineralogical and Geological Sec- 

 tion, report of, 384. 



Morris, Chas. Methods of Defense 

 in Organisms, 25 ; Reverse Vision, 

 302. 

 Museum, additions to, 391. 

 Nebingei", Andrew, M. D. An- 

 nouncement of death of, 230. 

 Nolan, Edw. J., M.D. Report df 

 Recording Secretary, 369 ; Report 

 of Librarian, 371. 

 Officers, Councillors and Members of 

 Finance Committee for 1887, 390. 

 Osborn, Henry F., Sc. D. Observa- 

 tions upon the Upper Triassic 

 Mammals, Dromatherium and Mi- 

 croconodon, 358, 359. 

 Phillips, Chas. C. Announcement 



of death of, 349. 

 Potts, Edw. Fresh-water Sponges 

 from Newfoundland, a new spe- 

 cies, 227. 

 Professor of Ethnology and Archae- 

 ology, Report of, 386. 

 Professor of Invertebrate Paleon- 

 tology, report of, 384. 

 Professor of Invertebrate Zoology, 



report of, 385. 

 Rand, Theo. D. Report of Mineral- 

 ogical and Geological Section, 384. 

 Rau, Eugene A. Fatal Cases of 



Trichiuiasis, 254. 

 Recording Secretary, report of, 369. 

 Redfield, John H. Report of Bo- 

 tanical Section, 383. 

 Report of the Biological and Micro- 

 scopical Section, 378. 

 Report of Botanical Section, 382. 

 Report of the Conchological Section, 



379. 

 Report of Corresponding Secretary, 



370. 

 Report of Curators, 373. 

 Report of the Curator of the Wm. 



S. Vaux Collections, 377. 

 Report of the Entomological Sec- 

 tion, 381. 

 Report of Librarian, 371. 

 Report of the Mineralogical and 



Geological Section, 384. 

 Report of Professor of Ethnology 



and Archaeology, 386. 

 Report of Professor of Invertebrate 



Paleontology, 384. 

 Report of Professor of Invertebrate 



Zoology, 385. 

 Report of the Recording Secretary, 



369. 

 Report of Treasurer, Summary of, 

 887. 




1886.] 



NATtTEAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



439 



Ridings, J. H. Report of Entomo- 

 logical Section, 381. 



Roberts, S. R. Report of the Con- 

 chological Section, 379. 



Rominger, Dr. C. On the Minute 

 Structure of Stromatopora and its 

 allies, 36, 89. 



Scott, Wm. B. The Genera Meso- 

 nyx and Pachysena Cope, 343, 349. 



Sharp, Benj., M. D. Fermentation 

 in Perenji's Fluid, 61. On the 

 Eye of Pecten, 61. On the Ex- 

 pansion of the Crystalline Lens, 

 277. Report of Professor of In- 

 vertebrate Zoology, 385. 



Shepherd, C. U. Announcement of 

 death of, 273. 



Sherman, Roger. Announcement of 

 death of, 301. 



Smith, Aubrey H. The Railway 

 Cutting at Gray's Ferry Road, 253. 



Starr, Jesse W. Announcement of 

 death of, 59. 



Thompson, Edw. H. On the Effect 

 of Scorpion Stings, 299. 



Treasurer, Summary of Report of, 

 387. 



Vasey, Geo. Notes on the Paspali 

 of Le Conte's Monograph, 280, 284. 



Wachsmuth, Charles, and Frank 

 Springer. Revision of the Palaeo- 

 crinoidea. Part III, Section II, 64. 



Welsh, John. Announcement of 

 death of, 230. 



Wilt, Charles. Announcement of 

 death of, 227. 



Woolman, Lewis. Oriskany Sand- 

 stone in Lycoming Co., Pa., 296. 





PROC. ACIIO. NAT. SCI.. PHILAD'll. IBBB. 



PLATE IV. 



iiST 



I I I M I I M : I 



hb 



120 



1 1 1 1 1 1 

 130 



1 1 1 1 1 1 1 



1 1 1 1 1 1 1 



40 



EEliTII, METEOmC IRON FRIM EIST TENIIESSEE. 





PRIG. ACAD. NAT. SGI., PHILAD'A, 1886. 



PLATE V. 



GENTH. METEDfilC IRON FROM EAST TENNESSEE. 





V'^' 



PROCIEEDINGS 



OF THE 





I 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



PABT I.JAXUARY to 3IABCJI, 1880, 



y- 



3>f 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



Joseph Leidy, M. D., Geo. H. Horn, M. D., 



Edw. J. Nolan, M. D., Thomas Meehan, 



J. H. Redfield. 



EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



LOGAN SQUARE. 

 1886, 



'^ 




PUBLICATIONS OF THE 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Eight volumes of the New Series of the Joubnal and Part I of Volume IX (Quarto) 

 have been issued 1847 to 1884. The price per volume of four parts is $10, or $3 per part, to 

 subscribers; and to others, $12.60 per volume, or $3.75 per part. Vol. VII contains "The 

 Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mammalian 

 Remains of North America." Illustrated with thirty plates. By Joseph Leidy, M.D., LL.D. 



The First Series op the Jocrnal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, may be 

 obtained at $40 to members, and to the public, $48. 



The First Series op the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 1841 to 

 1866, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be obtained at $24 to 

 members; and to the public, $30. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of which 

 fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870), may be obtained at $42 to members, or $3 

 per volume separately; and to the public, $3.76 per volume. 



The Third Series of the Proceedings, Illustrated, commencing January 1, 1871, 

 (of which fifteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1885), is published at $5 per annum, payable 

 in advance, to subscribers ; single volumes, $6.25. 



^^^ A life subscription to either the Proceedings or Journal has been placed at 

 $40, or $75 for both. 



American Journal op Conchology, 1865-71. Seven vols., Svo. Containing 2500 

 pages, illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, besides about a 

 thousand wood engravings. Published at $70. Price reduced to $42 for the set. Separate 

 volumes, $10 each. 



The Academy has the following works for sale at the prices aflBxedr 



Description of Shells op North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas Say. 



1830-34. $10.60. 

 Monograph op the Terrestrial Mollusca op the United States. With illustrations 



of all the species. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate paper, with duplicate 



plates, colored and tinted, $20; colored edition, $13.50; plain edition, $8.50. Only 



one hundred copies printed, which have been mostly sold. 

 Monograph of the Fresh Water Univalve Mollusca of the United States. By S. S. 



Haldeman, 1840-44. With Continuation to 1871. By George W. Tryon, Jr. 2 



vols., with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, $40 ; with colored 



plates, $25; with plain plates, $18, 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 

 Synonymy of the Species op StrepomatiDjE (Melanians) of the United States. By 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 List op American Writers on Recent Conchology, with the Titles of their Memoirs 



and Dates of Publication. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 Monograph op the Order Pholadacea and other Papers. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Cloth, $2; paper, $1.75. 

 Complete Writings on Recent and Fossil CeNCHOLOGY of C. S. Rafinesque. Edited 



by Wm. G. Binney and G. W. Tryon, Jr. $2.50. 

 Observations on the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. 4to, Vols. 1 to 13. With 



Index, Nos. 1, 2 and 3, complete. Illustrated with several hundred fine lithographic 



plates. $60. 



Same, Vols. 2 to 13 inclusive, except Vols. 4 and 12. Each volume separately, $5. 

 Synopsis op Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. Fourth edition. $6. 

 Contributions to Geology. By Isaac Lea. $3. 

 Fossil Foot-Marks. By Isaac Lea. Large folio, text and plate. $2. 



Same, plate alone. 60 cents. 



Notice to Booksellers. All the publications of the Society will be sup- 

 plied to Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent, on the prices charged to the public. 



Application to be made to Edward J. Nolan, M.D., at the Hall of the 

 Academy, comer of Nineteenth and Race Streets. 



June, 1S8G. 





COTSTTENTS. 



Meehan, Thomas, On the Morpholog}' of superimposed 

 Stamens, 



Leidy, Jos., M. D. Mastodon and Llama from Florida, 



Aaron, S. Frank. On some new Psocidai (Plate I), 



McCoRMiCK, Calvin. The Inclusions in the Granite of Crafts- 

 bury, Vt., 



Morris, Chas. Methods of Defense in Organisms, . 



Hartman, Wm. D., M. D. New Species of Partula from the 

 New Hebrides and Solomon Islands (Plate II), . 



Allen, Harrison, M. D. On a Post-tympanic Ossicle in IJrsus, 



Leidy, Jos., M.D. An Extinct Boar from Florida, . 



Leidy, Jos., M. D. Caries in the Mastodon, .... 



Rominger, Dr. C. On the Minute Structure of Stromatopora 

 and its Allies, ......... 



Heilprin, Angelo. Notes on the Tertiary Geology and Paleon- 

 tology of the Southern United States, .... 



Meehan, Tiios. Botanical Notes : Secretion of Nectar in 

 Libonia ; Production of Nectar in Ornithogalum coarc- 

 tatum ; Seeds on Depauperite Plants ; Of Bracts in Cru- 

 ciferse ; The Coronal Disk in Spiraea, ... 



Sharp, Benjamin, M.D. Fermentation in Perenji's Fluid, 



Sharp, Benjamin, M. D. On the Eye of Pecten, 



Leidy, Jos., M.D. On Amia and its probable Tjienia, 



Wachsmutii, Charles and Frank Springer. Revision of the 

 Palffiocrinoidea. Part III, Section II, . ... 



PAQB. 



9 

 11 

 13 



19 



25 



30 

 36 

 37 

 38 



39 



57 



60 

 61 

 61 

 62 



64 



"ILOARE'S PRINTINO HOUSE, 734 & 736 SANSOM ST., PHILADELPHIA. 




PROCEEDINGS 



OF THR 



^ 



kmlm^ 4 ^ntotal ^tkwm 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA . 



rART II, APRILSEPTEMBBB, 1886. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



Joseph Leidy, M. D., Geo. H. Horn, M. D., 



Edw. J. Nolan, M. D., Thomas Meehan, 



J. H. Redfield. 



EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



LOGAN SQUARE. 



1886. 



^^t^^s 




PUBLICATIONS OF THE 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Eight volumes of the New Series of the Joupnal and Part I of Volume IX (Quarto) 

 have been issuid 1847 to 1884. The price per volume of four parfs is $1(1, or $3 per part, to 

 Bubfcriberg; and to others, $12.50 per volume, or $S.T5 per part. Vol. VII contains "The 

 Extinct Mammalian Fauna of I>akota and Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mammalian 

 Remains of North America." Illustrated with thirty plates. By Joseph Leidv, M.D., LL.D. 



The First Series op the Joprnal. 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, may be 

 obtained at $40 to members, and to the public. $48. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 1841 to 

 1856, of whicli eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be obtained at $24 to 

 members ; and to the public, $30. 



The Second Series of the Proceeptngs, commencing January 1, 1857 (of which 

 fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870), may be obtained at $42 to members, or $3 

 per volume separately; and to the public, $3.75 per volume. 



The Third Series of the Proceemngs. Ii.lpstrated, commencing January 1, 1871, 

 (of which fifteen volumes were completed Di c. 31, 1885), is published at $5 per annum, payable 

 in advance, to subscribers ; single volumes, $6.25. 



^^S** A life subscription to either the Proceedings or Journal has been placed at 

 $40, or $75 for both. 



American Journal op Conchologt, 1865-71. Seven vols., 8vo. Containing 2500 

 pages, illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, besides about a 

 thousand wood engravings. Published at $70. Price reduced to $42 for the set. Separate 

 volumes, $10 each. 



The AcADEHT has the following works for sale at the prices affixed; 



Descpiption of Shells op North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas Say. 



1830-34. $10.50. 

 Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca op the United States. With illustrations 



of all the species. By Oeo. W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate paper, with duplicate 



plates, colored and tinted, $20: colored edition, $13.50; plain edition, $8.50. Only 



one hundred copies printed, which have been mostly sold. 

 Monograph of thh Fresh Water Tmvalve Moi xr sca or the United States. By S. S. 



Haldeman, 1840-44. With Continvation to 1871. By George W. Tryon, Jr. 2 



vols., with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, $40; with colored 



plates, $26; with plain plates, $18. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 

 Synonymy* of the Species of Strkpomatipjk (Melanians) of the United States. By 



Geo. W. Tryon. Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 List of American Writers on Recent Conchology, with the Titles of their Memoirs 



and Dates of Publication. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 Monograph of the Order Pholadacea and other Papers. By Geo. W. Tryok, Jb. 



Cloth, $2; paper, $1.75. 

 Complete Writings on Recent and Fossil CeNCHOLOGY op C. S. Rapinesque. Edited 



by Wm. G. Binney and G W. Tryon, Jr. $2 50. 

 Observations on the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. 4to, Vols. 1 to 13. With 



Index, Nos. 1, 2 and 3, complete. Illustrated with several hundred fine lithographic 



plates. $60. 



Same, Vols. 2 to 13 inclusive, except Vols. 4 and 12. Each volume separately, $5. 

 Synopsis op Gknus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. Fourth edition. $5. 

 Contributions to Geology. By Isaac Lea. $3. 

 Fossil Foot-Marks. By Isaac Lea. Large folio, text and plate. $2. 



Same, plate alone. 50 cents. 



Notice to Booksellers. All the publications of the Society will be sup- 

 plied to Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent on the prices cliarged totlie piiblib. 



Application to be made to Edward J. Nolan, M.D., at the Hall of the 

 Academy, comer of Nineteenth and Race Streets. 



October, 1886. 




,.;^^' 



PROCEEDINGS 



OV THB 



.^c^ri^mg 0f l^alurnl ^ti^nr^$ 



I 



OF 



PHILADELPMIA. 



PART III. OCTOBER DEC E3IBEIi, 1880. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



Joseph Leidy, M. D., Geo. H. Horn, M. D,, 



Edw. J. Nolan, M. D., Thomas Meehan, 



J. H. Redpield. 



EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



LOGAN SQUARE. 

 1887. 




PUBLICATIONS OF THE 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Eight volumes of the New Series of the Joubnal and Part I of yolume IX (Quarto) 

 have been issued 1847 to 1884. The price per volume of four parts is $10, or $3 per part, to 

 subscribers; and to others, $12.60 per volume, or $3.75 per part. Vol. VII contains "The 

 Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mammalian 

 Remains of North America." Illustrated with thirty plates. By Joseph Leidy, M.D., LL.D. 



The First Series of the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, may be 

 obtained at $40 to members, and to the public, $48. 



The First Series of tbe Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 1841 to 

 1856, of which eight volumes were completed-Dec. 31, 1856, may be obtained at $24 to 

 members; and to the public, $30. 



The Second Series op the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of which 

 fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870), may be obtained at $42 to members, or $3 

 per volume separately; and to the public, $3.75 per volume. 



The Third Series of the Proceedings, Illcstrated, commencing January 1, 1871, 

 (of which sixteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1886), is published at $5 per annum, pay- 

 able in advance, to subscribers; single volumes, $6.25. 



^^* A life subscription to either the Proceedings or Journal has been placed at 

 $40, or $75 for both. 



American Journal of Conchology, 1865-71. Seven vols., 8vo. Containing 2500 

 pages, illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of theiu colored, besides about a 

 thousand wood engravings. Published at $70. Price reduced to $42 for the set. Separate 

 volumes, $10 each. 



The Academy has the following works for sale at the prices aSxed; 



Description of Shells of North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas Say. 



1830-34. $10.60. 

 Monograph op the Terrestrial Mollusca of the United States. With illustrations 



of all the species. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate paper, with duplicate 



plates, colored and tinted, $20; colored edition, $13.50; plain edition, $8.50. Only 



one hundred copies printed, which have been mostly sold. 

 Monograph of the Fresh Water Fnivalve Mollusca op the United States. By S. S. 



Haldeman, 1840-44. With Continuation to 1871. By George W. Tryon, Jr. 2 



vols., with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, $40; with colored 



plates, $25; with plain plates, $18. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 

 Synonymy op the Species op Strepomatid^ (Melanians) op the Ukited States. By 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 List op American AVriters on Recent Conchology, with the Titles of their Memoirs 



and Dates of Publication. By Geo. AV. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 Monograph of the Order Pholadacea and other Papers. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Cloth, $2; paper, $1.75. 

 Complete Writings on Recent and Fossil CeNCHOLOGY of C. S. Rafinesque. Edited 



by Wm. G. Binney and G. W. Tryon, Jr. $2.50. 

 Observations on the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. 4to, Vols. 1 to 13. With 



Index, Nos. 1, 2 and 3, complete. Illustrated with several hundred fine lithographic 



plates. $60. 



Same, Vols. 2 to 13 inclusive, except Vols. 4 and 12. Each volume separately, $5. 

 Synopsis of Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. Fourth edition. $5. 

 Contributions to Geology. By Isaac Lea. $3. 

 Fossil Foot-Marks. By Isaac Lea. Large folio, text and plate. $2. 



Same, plate alone. 50 cents. 



Notice to Booksellees. All tbe publications of tbe Society will be sup- 

 plied to Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent, on tbe prices cbarged to tbe public 



Application to be made to Edward J. Nolan, M.D., at tbe Hall of tbe 

 Academy, comer of Nineteentb and Kace Streets. 



February, 1S87. 





COISTTJENTS. 



fi om Sast 



Ten- 



AuTHUu, J. C. History aiul Hiology of Pear Blight (Conclasion), . 

 EcKKEi.DT, J. W., M. D. Notes on the Lichens in the Herbarium of the 

 Academy, ............ 



Meehan, Thomas. On the Interdependence of Plants, .... 



HoLMAN, LiLLit; E. Observations on the Multiplication in Amojbie, 

 Meehan, Thomas, On Petiolar Glands in some Onagracese, . 

 KoEsiG, GEOKaE A., Ph. D. Manganese Zinc Serpentine from Franklin. 



HEiiiPRiN, Angelo. On Miocene Fossils from Southern New Jersey, 



DoF-iiEY, Chas. S., M. D. On the Helictites of Luray Cave, 



Abbott, Miss Helen C. De R. On HtematoxyliQ in the Bark of Saraca 

 Indica, ............. 



KoENiG, Geo. A., Ph. D. On Schorlomite as a variety of Melanite, 



OsBORN, Henrt F., So. D. Observations upon the Upper Triassic Mam- 

 mals, Dromatheriura and Microconodou, 



HeilpriiX, Angelo. A New Species of Aplysia, 



Brown, Albert Dod, Notice of, . 



Genth, F. a.. Ph. D. On an Uudescribed Meteoric Iron 

 nessee. (Plates IV and Vi 



Report of the Recording Secretary, 



Report of the Corresi)onding Secretary, ... 



Report of the Librarian, ...... 



Report of the Curators, . ' 



Report of the Curator of the Wm. S. Vaux Collections, 



Report of the Biological and Microscopical Section, . 



Report of the Conchological Section, . . . 



Report of the Entomological Section, .... 



Report of the Botanical Section, 



Report of the Miueralogical and Geological Section, . 



Report of the Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology, 



Report of the Professor of Invertebrate Zoology, 



Report of the Professor- of Ethnology and Archaeology, 



Report of the Treasurer, Summary of, 



OflBcers, Councillors, and Members of the Finance Committee for 188^ 



Elections during ISSCi, 



Additions to the Museum, 



Additions to the Library, 



Index to Genera, etc., 



General Index, 



PAGB. 



329 



342 



344 

 34(3 

 849 



3r)0 

 351 

 351 



353 

 355 



359 

 364 

 364 



366 

 369 

 370 

 371 

 373 

 377 

 378 

 379 

 381 

 382 

 884 

 384 

 885 

 386 

 387 

 390 

 390 

 391 

 395 

 433 

 437 



'_0*Re-S PINT(N0 HOUSE, 7a< & 736 SANSOM ST., PHI L A OEuPHI * 



^ 








